---
title: "12.04: Can't boot into normal or recovery mode"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gitanogana on 2012-04-29
Hi,

I recently installed Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit (clean install) and it worked fine.  Now a couple days later (perhaps after some updates) it will freeze during boot after I enter my password and click login.

I booted into the live cd and chroot'ed into my partition and performed an apt-get update and apt-get clean, even reinstalled Grub2, and when I restarted was able to login properly again.  However, the next time I restart I have the same problem - which is fixed once again by the live cd method - but it always reoccurs.

Now, I tried booting into recovery mode but it freezes also.  I also tried ctrl alt F1 after it freezes and used sudo apt-get update, etc. and sudo stop lightdm, sudo start lightdm, but it freezes again.

Edit:
I dual boot with Windows 7, but Win7 is on my 1st hard drive and ubuntu on the 2nd.  I have an Nvidia GForce GT 555M, which has required me to install bumblebee to deal with the optimus technology.  Could this perhaps be causing any problems (seeing as I can login via terminal)?
What should my next step be? Thanks.

---

### Post by jtarin on 2012-04-30
I would imagine it is something in your /home/user folder that needs attention. To make sure create another user and see if you still have the same problems.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-04-30
Is it possible that the computer is having intermittent problems reading the drive that Ubuntu is on? Have you tried mundane things like making sure the cables are plugged in properly?

---

### Post by gitanogana on 2012-05-01
Well, I've verified that creating a new user does no good and my hard drives seem to be attached (they are each bolted down by 4 screws).

However, I have made another observation:

I can login properly if upon the computer freezing I login via terminal instead, and apt-get update and restart.  I have noticed that whenever the computer freezes and I have to do this, it seems to download the same (in this case 18.8 MB) data each time.  It's as if the ubuntu somehow regresses back to its state before the update.

I was even properly logged in once and did an apt-get update at the terminal and it downloaded the same 18.8 MB again! Does this shed any light on the potential problem? Thanks.

These are two of the main packages that always update:
us.archive.ubuntu.com precise/multiverse amd64 packages
us.archive.ubuntu.com precise/universe i386 packages

---

### Post by audiomick on 2012-05-05
> **gitanogana said:**
> 
These are two of the main packages that always update:
us.archive.ubuntu.com precise/multiverse amd64 packages
us.archive.ubuntu.com precise/universe i386 packages

I think that is only updating the package list, but not actually getting any new packages.

---

