---
title: "10.04 RC Frozen desktop. Can't right-click"
date: 2010-04-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tonsil on 2010-04-26
I did a clean install of 10.04 RC, 32 bit dekstop under ext4. I ran every update. Upon booting and logging in, randomly 1) I see my wallpaper and the mouse pointer only, without the panels. 2) Everything seems in working order, but I cannot right click (and say, create a folder, file etc...) on desktop, and cannot left click and drag the mouse (nothing appears). If I create a folder in desktop using the file manager it doesn't show on desktop either. I logged in as failsafe GNOME session and I can do all the above.

Any suggestions would be most welcome.

---

### Post by SnickerSnack on 2010-04-26
Download and burn a new iso and reinstall.

If that disk has worked in the past, then just reinstall.

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-04-26
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1462460](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1462460)
Same problem in this thread.

---

### Post by tonsil on 2010-04-26
OK. I did a new fresh install and in doing so found out the problem.
Right after the installation I was prompted to install my nvidia drivers, which I did. After a restart I can choose my preffered resolution which is 1280x1024, but not my preffered refresh rate. So I re-edited my xorg.conf and put one line in monitor section from my previous working Karmic Koala xorg.conf. Suddenly the correct refresh rate appears. However any icons in desktop disappear, and I cannot right click to create a folder, or left click and drag the mouse. I re-edited my xorg.conf again, and now Ubuntu won't boot. I'll use the LiveCD to change the xorg.conf again. That's not the problem. But how do I get a correct refresh rate?

All I did was adding this one line under the monitor section:

Modeline 	"1280x1024" 119.40 1280  1368 1504 1728 1024 1025 1028 1063

This corrects my refresh rate but apparently messes up my desktop.

Pleeeease help me!

---

### Post by tonsil on 2010-04-26
OK Solved! I just took my older (Karmic Koala) xorg.conf and used that one. For some reason running nvidia-xorg or letting the nvidia utility create an xorg.conf file caused me this problem. Now I can click anywhere as much as I want.

---

### Post by bughound on 2010-05-27
I had the same problem with being unable to right-click on my desktop after writing out the xorg.conf file via the nvidia X server settings (using Ubuntu 10.04).

I had to manually edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf to get the right-click working again on the desktop.

Here's what I added.

Under Section "Screen":
    Option	   "AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"

After adding this and rebooting, I'm now able to right-click on the desktop and get the pull-down menu.

---

### Post by ub-newbie on 2010-05-30
Bughound,  That fixed my problems (no shortcuts on the desktop, right clicking desktop did nothing).  When I looked back, that line was in my original xorg.conf, before I added 2nd monitor & created new xorg.conf using NVidia X server.

---

