---
title: "[SOLVED] Complete ubuntu"
date: 2008-06-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mailtwogopal on 2008-06-28
Hi all,

  i had dual boot till this morning due to some files which were in windows were essential. So i backed up all those things in a CD. i have completely installed ubuntu 8.04 in my machine today (1 hour ago) by giving the option while using boot CD "Guided - SCSI (0,0,0) 80GB SATA" and i got ubuntu completely installed wiping out the Windows xp which i had. now in my top panel of ubuntu i have noticed 209 updates are available. the problem is some days before when i had dual boot (windows & ubuntu) i got kernel update to 19 and after updates i got only blank screen. Regarding that i posted threads here and some what satisfying reply i got. i was using kernel 18 then using grub loader.

  My questions is now as follows:

  Presently i got (after completely installing after wiping windows) the kernel version 16 generic, and in my update list i found kernel update to 19. Please tell me if i got kernel update to 19 will i get the blank screen again. What i can do now, shall i go for kernel update to 19 or not? Please suggest me regarding this. Also tell me what is the command to get details on xorg which is presently in my PC. i can post the results of that command (if u guys gimme) so that u can suggest me probably to get kernel update or not. Also tell me is it a bug in ubuntu that after every kernel update everyone gets blank screen. please help me, am confused and of course i dint installed any updates yet after installing Ubuntu hardy heron.

**NOTE: i haven't installed restricted drivers (ATI graphics driver Radeon xpress 200) yet.**

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-06-28
It sounds as if you wiped out your existing Ubuntu installation as well as Windows. All 209 updates will be an overnight job if you're on dial-up. As for recovering your "lost" ubuntu setup, I'm not sufficiently clued up on how to do it.

---

### Post by rraj.be on 2008-06-28
> **mailtwogopal said:**
>  
[quote]Also tell me is it a bug in ubuntu that after every kernel update everyone gets blank screen. 



Its not the updates that drag's your computer into problem's.

I am making kernel updates when ever its available and not even once i got these kind of problem's.But i don't know why this minority fails.

All i want to say is it may happen some times very rarely and for that theres no need to afraid of updates.


Take a look at here.

[http://www.debianadmin.com/ubuntu-edgy-upgrade-common-problems-with-solutions.html]("http://www.debianadmin.com/ubuntu-edgy-upgrade-common-problems-with-solutions.html")


Regarding getting details of your xorg put this in terminal

```
xdpyinfo | grep version
```

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-06-28
I haven't had the blank screen problem, even though I've done all the updates. Which version of Ubuntu are you using?

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-06-28
Hi. The problem you had with the .19 kernel might have had something to do with the state of your Ubuntu system *then*, and/or peculiarities of your setup (processor, video card); I think no one here can assure you that installing it won't result in a blank screen, but I'm running the .19 kernel with a nVidia card and AMD processor without problems. You can install the kernel, and if you have problems with it you can boot to a previous kernel (after powering on your PC, you should see a counter going down to zero; press ESC then to enter the GRUB menu and select which kernel to boot).

To get details on your Xorg, run this from the terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal):
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and post the output, which will be the contents of Xorg's configuration, but that probably won't be of much use *now*.

When you say you get a blank screen, you mean completely blank, or that it sends you to a terminal (white text on a black background)? If it *does* send you to a terminal, type:
```
startx
```
to try to start the display.

---

### Post by mailtwogopal on 2008-06-28
hi raj,

  So tell me what i can do after i get the blank screen after updates. when i had dual boot i had same problem and i could not get it back to land on desktop after booting every time even with kernel 18. (it occured after xserver.org something like this command was executed when logged in kernel 18 recovery mode). So please help me.

---

### Post by mailtwogopal on 2008-06-28
hi rome,

 here is the o/p of "cat etc/X11/xorg.conf":

gopal@gopal-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection


I got simply a white blank screen and not the terminal. If i install all updates it takes me just 20 or 30 mins. i also boot with earlier kernel version, but my question: is it recoverable? last time i was not able to land at desktop thru any version of kernel (18 or 16 even). Please help me and thanks in advance. Sorry to disturb by asking same query again.

---

### Post by rraj.be on 2008-06-28
Actually i cant figure out what is the cause for blank screen problem.

But i can assure you that it will not occur for every updates.

Regarding  making a restore:

First up all make a copy of your important data.

If you feel like  getting afraid about re installation and configuring everything that you had done,You can make a Clone of your Partition like Ghost, hence you can go with any kind of problem without any fear, as restoring the installation just takes 5-10 minuets.

After restoration, your system will look like as it was before.

To be frank, its not wise to work out without any complete Backup.

Look here for complete tutorial for cloning.

First make a clone of your system with all required s/w installed and then proceed,


```
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/partimage]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/partimage")
```

I hope some one will help you regarding your BLANK SCREEN PROBLEM.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-06-28
When you had that problem, did you get to the login screen? If so, you can select 'Options->Select session' and choose 'Failsafe GNOME' or 'Failsafe Terminal', in case you decide to install the .19 kernel. Alternatively, did you try to use 'Recovery mode' in Grub?

Did you have Compiz on back then?

---

### Post by mailtwogopal on 2008-06-29
hi rome,

  ya am getting login screen. also tell me onething shall i get updates and install compiz as i have not installed it yet. I also have not installed ATI driver software (which is restricted by default).

---

### Post by rraj.be on 2008-06-29
> **mailtwogopal said:**
> hi rome,

  ya am getting login screen. also tell me onething shall i get updates and install compiz as i have not installed it yet. I also have not installed ATI driver software (which is restricted by default).

Sure you can install all your required packages
```

sudo apt-get install compiz

```

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-06-29
> **mailtwogopal said:**
> hi rome,

  ya am getting login screen. also tell me onething shall i get updates and install compiz as i have not installed it yet. I also have not installed ATI driver software (which is restricted by default).

Compiz comes already installed in Ubuntu 8.04; what you need is to install the restricted drivers to enable hardware acceleration, which will in turn allow you to enable Compiz. Go ahead with the updates; updating your system brings you added functionality and security.

---

### Post by mailtwogopal on 2008-06-29
hi guys,

 thanks a lot for ur replies. i got updates and everything works fine now.

---

