---
title: "10.04 Remix, classic view"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Julian Lewis on 2010-05-01
Hi,
   I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04. In 9.10 I was able to set show-desktop in apps nautilus preferences to TRUE with gconf-editor. In 10.04 this variable is set read only. I HATE the UNR standard desktop, I want a classic desktop with menus. Can any one tell me what I need to do to override this error and set show-desktop to the value I want. Which files does gconf-editor use to forbid me setting show-desktop to true. I would normally just reinstall 9.10 but 10.04 drivers are better on my HP MINI 210. My intention is to get 10.04 working with a classic desktop, any advice on how to get a classic desktop on 10.04 Remix would be very much appreciated. Thanks

---

### Post by Julian Lewis on 2010-05-02
For more clarity can anyone tell what this means ...

Could not change key value. Error message:
Can't overwrite existing read-only value:Value for
/apps/nautilus/preferences/show_desktop set in a 
read-only source at the front of your configuration path

This is what I get from gconf-editor. Where is the front of my configuration path ?

---

### Post by Julian Lewis on 2010-05-02
Well I managed in the end, but then I had other problems. The moral of the story is, if you want a classic system on your netbook, dont install remix. I just installed standard 10.04 from scratch, and that works just fine. It is possible to make a USB key for the desktop version and boot from it on your netbook. My advice is do justb taht if you don't want the UNR GUI.

---

### Post by Rifester on 2010-05-02
In the 10.04 Remix version you can select the standard Gnome desktop  in the dropdown box at login.

---

### Post by markw10 on 2010-05-02
I also installed Ubuntu Netbook Edition 10.04 and like the desktop but at times want to use the gnome desktop.
I haven't been able to figure out how to do this.  When I book into UNR it asks me to either try it or install it. I chose to try it since I'm only running it from a USB Flash Drive and have another OS on my system that I don't want to overwrite.
Is this option not available when running from USB Flash Drive?  Once I choose to try UNR it goes straight into UNR with no login screen.
At the upper right of the screen there is a button I can press that opens a menu that has a option that says 'switch from ubuntu'  When I select it it logs me off and takes me to a login screen but I have no login name or password.  How do I login at this point?  I am hoping I may get the desktop option at this time.

---

### Post by agm. on 2010-05-13
> **Rifester said:**
> In the 10.04 Remix version you can select the standard Gnome desktop  in the dropdown box at login.

How do you do this?  When I log in, it does not offer me that option?  I'm trying to go back to the classic view as well.  Is there a way to do this?

It seems that the original post didn't figure out a way without doing a clean install of the desktop version.

--Edit--

Ok, I found how to do this!  Under the system label in UNR, there is a button for "Log-in".  If you click on this, it gives you options on how to log on.  You can click which style of log-in you want to use.  I was able to chose "gnome-desktop" instead of UNR an I am really happy with this.

Hope this helps future users!

---

### Post by skyway45 on 2010-06-03
Thanks, agm!  Yes, to switch from Classic to Remix, or back again, go into System> Administration> Login Screen.  There you can set your preferences for your next boot up.  Thanks again agm!

---

### Post by charly17201 on 2010-07-14
> **agm. said:**
> How do you do this?  When I log in, it does not offer me that option?  I'm trying to go back to the classic view as well.  Is there a way to do this?

It seems that the original post didn't figure out a way without doing a clean install of the desktop version.

--Edit--

Ok, I found how to do this!  Under the system label in UNR, there is a button for "Log-in".  If you click on this, it gives you options on how to log on.  You can click which style of log-in you want to use.  I was able to chose "gnome-desktop" instead of UNR an I am really happy with this.

Hope this helps future users!

Thanks, I've been hunting for this answer. After crashing my netbook about 5 times now trying to change the GUI (since I can't get the standard Ubuntu to load) and I hate the UNR GUI. I'm in the midst of reloading UNR now and will try it out shortly.

---

