---
title: "Try 10.04 beta, or wait till release?"
date: 2010-04-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by UnknownFear on 2010-04-25
I am debating on trying the beta of the new 10.04 LTS, or if I should just wait till the release on Thursday. Anyone else trying the beta?

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-04-25
> **UnknownFear said:**
> I am debating on trying the beta of the new 10.04 LTS, or if I should just wait till the release on Thursday. Anyone else trying the beta?
try it right now on a livecd. On the release date, generally, there is a LOT of server congestion, and downloads are very slow (unless your using bittorent)

besides, its pretty stable right now

---

### Post by xumuk37 on 2010-04-25
it's allready release canditat... a lot of beta bugs are allready fixed

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2010-04-25
What, you gonna be the first on your block? I have loaded bata releases before and didn't have a good experience. Every time I waited a week after the release the load went faster, better, less errors and the install was flawless. What do you gain by jumping in early? More bugs (I know there are none now </sarcasim>), more updates to load, less questions already answered. Ubuntu is great, 9.10 is almost bug free and solid, 9.10 is working just fine and using it an extra week won't cause your CPu to freeze.

Unless you need something in 10.04 that is not available in 9.10, and you need in NOW!!! Just wait.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2010-04-25
If you look in the [Testing Forum](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=377) you'll see there are quite a few serious bugs, like not even being able to boot.
Do you know how to troubleshoot said bugs and file them if necessary?
If not, wait 4 more days for the final release.

---

### Post by UnknownFear on 2010-04-25
> **carlee said:**
> try it right now on a livecd. On the release date, generally, there is a LOT of server congestion, and downloads are very slow (unless your using bittorent)

besides, its pretty stable right now

If I do download the release candidate and install it, when it is fully released in four days, can I upgrade right from Ubuntu, or do I have to go through and burn another LiveCD? I'll do it right now, but if I have to burn two LiveCD's, I'd rather wait till the release.

---

### Post by xumuk37 on 2010-04-25
upgrade to stable version with 3 commands...

mod note: The following is not an approved way to upgrade:

[s]sudo apt-get update&&sudo apt-get upgrade&&sudo apt-get dist-upgrade[/s]

Instead for the RC release, follow these [directions]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades").    Also read [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1460131").

---

### Post by mk1w86 on 2010-04-25
> **UnknownFear said:**
> If I do download the release candidate and install it, when it is fully released in four days, can I upgrade right from Ubuntu, or do I have to go through and burn another LiveCD? I'll do it right now, but if I have to burn two LiveCD's, I'd rather wait till the release.

As long as you keep your system updated from the internet using Update Manager your installation will be updated to the final release when it's released.  Personally, I would wait a few days for the final release.  If server congestion is a problem you can always use bit torrent. ;)

---

### Post by lavezarez on 2010-04-25
i'm in beta2 now, running smoothly for 2 weeks now in my old IBM thinkpad i use at home. 
there were apport kernel crash incidents, but nothing serious - meaning i didn't have to restart when it happened.  and the kernel crashes disappeared soon after i ran the update manager a few days ago.
 
however, for my work laptop, i have ubuntu 9.10, and will probably wait a month before upgrading

---

### Post by cuberts on 2010-04-25
> **UnknownFear said:**
> I am debating on trying the beta of the new 10.04 LTS, or if I should just wait till the release on Thursday. Anyone else trying the beta?wait till release, because then you would have to go through the process of Cleaning Up your Ubuntu Grub Boot Menu After Upgrades.

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-04-25
I've been using Lucid as my primary since the first Beta.  Much of the  "it's buggy" is FUD, but many have encountered some problems.  Assuming it is buggy because people come to this forum seeking help is not rational.  People do not come here to ask for help when things are going right.  Thus, you do not get a clear picture of the percentage of users having problems.

Because I start testing the dev releases as soon as they come out, I am  prepared to make a decision about whether to wait or not on my machines.

However, if you have not done that, you have to make a decision:  Is it  worth using the RC for a few days or should you wait to install the Final?

If you install the RC now, your normal updates will get you to the Final when the repos have been updated.  There is no need to reinstall.

Still, my advice at this point for those who have not been testing all along is  to just wait for the final release.

(As for cleaning up your GRUB2, that is of little consequence.  All that need be done is 

```
sudo update-grub2
```)

---

### Post by UnknownFear on 2010-04-25
Alright, seeing all the posts on the matter, I'll just wait till the release. Really looking forward to it as wel :)

---

