---
title: "8.10 sound and video issues (skype)"
date: 2008-11-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by lsaplai on 2008-11-09
Hi everyone

I upgraded from Ubuntu 8.04 to 8.10 just a few days ago. Everything is working mostly OK but I'm having a couple of problems with the sound and video. Both issues then relate to a problem with Skype. I must say that I had no such issues with 8.04.

Sound: whenever the sound server turns on at boot, I get a very loud white noise through my speakers. This is extremely annoying but I finally figured out that turning on TVTime Television Viewer turns off that background noise. However, turning on Cheese starts that noise again.
2nd point about the sound, and it relates to Skype: I was also affected by the sound out issue, but solved it by choosing Pulse as the Sound Out device. Funny thing is: Making a test sound doesn't work but the test call works fine (as well as the rest of Skype audio functions)

Video: I have a Logitech Communicate STX that was working in Skype under 8.04. Ever since upgrading to 8.10, everytime I turn on the video, be it during a call or as a test in the options, it instantly crashes skype.

I run Skype 2.0.0.68. I tried the latest version but had the same problem so just reverted.

My sound card is built into my motherboard, which is a ... blank: How do I find out in the system what my motherboard is?

Could anyone please provide some assistance to get rid of that white noise for good as well as solving my Skype video issue?

TIA

---

### Post by lsaplai on 2008-11-09
Got some additional info as I found the details of my computer hardaware. My motherbard is an Asus P5P800 LGA755 1 with on board sound (Sounblaster). Memory is 1GB.

Cheers!

---

### Post by lsaplai on 2008-11-11
bump

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-11-11
What are the results of this command?
```
lspci
```

---

### Post by lsaplai on 2008-11-11
> **Codename said:**
> What are the results of this command?
```
lspci
```

Here it is:
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82865G/PE/P DRAM Controller/Host-Hub Interface (rev 02)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82865G/PE/P PCI to AGP Controller (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev c2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801EB (ICH5) SATA Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) SMBus Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 SE] (rev 01)
01:00.1 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 SE] (Secondary) (rev 01)
02:05.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8001 Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 13)
02:0b.0 Multimedia video controller: Conexant Systems, Inc. CX23880/1/2/3 PCI Video and Audio Decoder (rev 05)
02:0b.1 Multimedia controller: Conexant Systems, Inc. CX23880/1/2/3 PCI Video and Audio Decoder [Audio Port] (rev 05)

---

### Post by lsaplai on 2008-11-14
bump

---

### Post by lsaplai on 2008-11-16
Hi all,

Sorry for insisting but... isn't there anyone able/willing to help with my problem? That would be greatly appreciated.

Cheers!

---

### Post by mol234 on 2008-11-17
Hi, 
i have the same issue. With 4.8 everything works well with skype. After an update skype crash !
hardware: 
* asus main board + ob board sound
* logitech cam
The webcam works well, e.g. with programms like "cheese"
.....
please help, myself i have currently no idea. Maybe in the end of the week i have time to look in details...
mol

---

### Post by Nikola Kasabov on 2008-11-29
Try playing with Devices section in Skype options. They vary depending on your hardware. For me worked "Intel ICH5 (plughw:ICH5,0)" but it will be different for you. Try "pulse" it works for some but not for my mic.

P.S. Some people go to extreme and remove pulseaudio and install esound but its not necessary if only skype is the problem.

---

