---
title: "15.10 installation freezes (Asus, W10)"
date: 2016-02-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Marc_Rovira_Sacie on 2016-02-23
Hi 

I'm trying to install Ubuntu 15.10 from an USB made with Universal USB Installer in an Asus R510JX-DM302T with W10 already installed. The problem is I cannot begin the installation nor can I launch the "Try Ubuntu before installing" option as the purple window with the Ubuntu logo and the dots freezes after some seconds. I have checked the forums but there is not a consisten answer as it is very case dependant.

Thank you in advance!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-02-23
Thread moved, has nothing to do with Xenial.

---

### Post by Marc_Rovira_Sacie on 2016-02-26
Hey thanks for moving the thread I posted too quickly.

However, could someone lend me a hand with the installation process? 

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by hughoranga on 2016-02-28
I'm a total noob, but this looks similar to the problem I had with my machine (an Acer E15):

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2315069&highlight=acer+e15](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2315069&highlight=acer+e15)

It seems there are a lot of diverse issues, with different hardware and different types of UEFI, so there are a lot of posts. My issue seems to have been solved by doing a clean install using the "erase and install" option, but cariboo posts a different possibility using the windows disk management tool. The good thing about the erase and install option was that it seemed to organise the partitions which is not something I know much about doing myself. Of course, I had no data on my brand new machine: erase and install might not suit you if you have data to save, but hopefully you have backed up first. I had to "dive" in to the BIOS, by which I mean I held down F2 on boot, and was able to do 2 things there. I changed the Boot Mode to the thing that was not UEFI (in my case, called Legacy, but this seems to depend on your hardware), and I changed the Boot priority order to put USB up top. I think I went back and put the HDD back on top once the boot issues were resolved.

May be one of these options, cariboo's or mine, will help you.

There is a scary amount of information about this all over these forums, for example:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2147295](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2147295)

Perhaps the Boot Repair is also worth mentioning:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)

I'm not sure how helpful this all is, but good luck!

---

