---
title: "11.04 Need help with downloads"
date: 2011-05-11
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-11
I am having problems with download and installations. I cannot find my downloaded files from Synaptic.
e.g. I downloaded GRIG in the Amateur Radio category in Synaptic. This is a graphical interface. I not only downloaded but installed it. I rebooted and could not locate it in applications. Went to BASH and did a search for it and nothing.

Help!

gumshoe

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-05-11
You can add a menu item entry by right clicking the Menu and selecting "Add to Menu". You can also run an application by hitting [ALT][F2] then typing the application name. Additionally, you can search for an application by typing this in a terminal:

```
which *applicationname*
```

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-05-11
Right click the app in synaptic and choose properties and you will see a tab for "Installed files" which should tell you where all the files are.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-11
> **seawolf167 said:**
> You can add a menu item entry by right clicking the Menu and selecting "Add to Menu". You can also run an application by hitting [ALT][F2] then typing the application name. Additionally, you can search for an application by typing this in a terminal:

```
which *applicationname*
```

Great advise! Did the [ALT][F2] and there it was. Thank You. Seawolf167

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-11
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Right click the app in synaptic and choose properties and you will see a tab for "Installed files" which should tell you where all the files are.

Thank You.

---

### Post by grantmcduling on 2011-05-13
Hi, I have also just downloaded and installed this application, and when I hit Alt F2 grig, I get the hamlib dummy running. How do I change from the dummy to my rig, the FT450?

Grant
VK4JAZ

---

