---
title: ".dmg files"
date: 2008-12-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by shadow120 on 2008-12-18
how do i open .dmg files on ubuntu 8.04 im lost on this one any info would help thanks

---

### Post by Partyboi2 on 2008-12-19
I don't think you can open a dmg, what you will probably need to do is use dmg2iso to convert the dmg to a iso. Then you can extract the iso.
[http://www.arsgeek.com/2007/01/23/ubuntu-quicktip-converting-max-dmg-images-into-iso-images/](http://www.arsgeek.com/2007/01/23/ubuntu-quicktip-converting-max-dmg-images-into-iso-images/)

---

### Post by Tim Sharitt on 2008-12-19
You shoud be able to mount them since they are hfs images. 
In a terminal enter:
```
sudo mount -t hfs -o loop name_of_file.dmg /directory_to_mount_to
```
You can use any directory for the mount point, but preferably an empty one.

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2008-12-19
Ubuntu cannot natively read .dmg archives, but the [dmg2iso]("http://vu1tur.eu.org/tools/") utility can convert a few .dmg archives to .iso.

> how do i open .dmg files on ubuntu 8.04 im lost on this one any info would help thanks 	

Just being curious why do you want to open an mac file type on Ubuntu?

---

### Post by shadow120 on 2008-12-19
i downloaded something not knowing it was a mac file and i cant find it in any other format thanks for the help

---

### Post by RaZoR1394 on 2008-12-19
Personally I have tried:

Ultraiso (through Wine) - conversion worked but file was a lot bigger than a DVD9 thus no way to burn unless you get a blu-ray or hddvd disc
Acetoneiso (native app) - error during conversion
Magiciso (through wine) - error during conversion
dmg2iso (pl script) - error during conversion
Macdrive (through Wine) - couldn't install
Mounting with hfs from cli - error


I think burning the .dmg file straight from my Windows installation with Macdrive is my last hope. I have succeded with the previous apps before on some .dmg files but once you have a .dmg with multiple partitions and other complexities I get into trouble.

---

### Post by RaZoR1394 on 2008-12-20
Macdrive is one of the worst applications I've tried on Windows. It's not intuitive, it crashes all the time and it corrupted my whole external NTFS drive.

Personally I just wanted to burn the file, not open it but I think we are after the same tools more or less.

The best would probably be to put the file on an ntfs disc and open it or burn it on OSX.

---

### Post by bulletxt on 2008-12-22
try this:

use AcetoneISO [http://www.acetoneteam.org](http://www.acetoneteam.org), but instead of converting it to ISO, use the "Extract to folder" feature under Convertion menu. let's see if that works.

---

### Post by RaZoR1394 on 2008-12-22
acetoniso.log

```

*file location and name censored*.dmg: The file format is invalid or unsupported.

```

Neither extract or direct conversion work.

I have found another app however, more precisely a java one called dmgextractor. I'm converting my file right now, at 12% currently so it seems to work. Most apps I've tried except Ultraiso throw an error instantly. Maybe the file ends too big like with UltraISO, maybe not.

[http://hem.bredband.net/catacombae/dmgx.html](http://hem.bredband.net/catacombae/dmgx.html)

---

### Post by bulletxt on 2008-12-22
thanks for your report of that software!

---

### Post by RaZoR1394 on 2008-12-22
So file turned out too big. And I tried Transmac which had a burning option but needed to convert the file. Too big here as well.

To the point:

.dmg image with Compressed HFS+ + multiple partitions - burn directly from OSX with Disk utility.

---

### Post by gr4n1t3 on 2009-05-17
I was looking for a way to extract a small dmg archive and it worked with the method described: "Extract to folder" under Convertion menu, above in acetone on 9.04. :) 

Thanks

---

### Post by Cyber_rader on 2010-09-16
ok not sure how to ask this, i have 2 .dmg image files for mac. i want to burn them so an iMac G3 with 512 ram and a 40 gb hard drive can run and install the newer OS. the computer has a very simple use. it will run a magicjack and teamviewer 5 other than that it will have no other use. i know my version of ubuntu 10.04 UE 2.7 can read and write HFS and HFS+ hard drives as is. but i need to burn the .dmg images to run them on a Mac

---

### Post by Cyber_rader on 2010-09-16
i converted the .dmg to .iso burnt it, the mac reads the disk but i can not get the computer to boot the disk it is not listed it the boot options just the hard drive. the computer is used and i do not know the password for the account so i can not install it the easier way im about ready to gut the mac for its hard drive ram and anything else usefull to me

---

