---
title: "10.10 sudo dpkg --configure -a"
date: 2011-02-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-02-23
Hi, 

First post here but have been lurking for a while now.

I have recently moved to Ubuntu from Windows on my work computer, All has been working well till today.

Whenever I try install something via Ubuntu Software center it hangs on "applying changes" and if I try cancel it, it hangs on "Cancelling"

When I try sudo apt-get I get the following error:
E: dpkg was interrupted, you must manually run 'sudo dpkg --configure -a' to correct the problem. 

When I try to run  'sudo dpkg --configure -a'it starts the install then eventually hangs/times out trying to connect to the server (as below).

I have tried manually adding the proxy with the following command before trying the above with the following command: export http_proxy=proxy IP address. but this made no difference.
I have added the proxy to system>preferences>proxy and applied it system wide.

All was working fine until I after I installed WINE this morning (ubuntu software Center was not working so I did it via apt-get) WINE is working but now I can't install anything else.

Thank You

Sean



**sudo dpkg --configure -a**

Setting up ttf-mscorefonts-installer (3.2ubuntu2) ...

These fonts were provided by Microsoft "in the interest of cross-
platform compatibility".  This is no longer the case, but they are
still available from third parties.

You are free to download these fonts and use them for your own use,
but you may not redistribute them in modified form, including changes
to the file name or packaging format.

--2011-02-23 16:36:38--  [http://downloads.sourceforge.net/corefonts/andale32.exe](http://downloads.sourceforge.net/corefonts/andale32.exe)
Resolving downloads.sourceforge.net... 216.34.181.59
Connecting to downloads.sourceforge.net|216.34.181.59|:80...

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-02-23
Supposed to be fixed.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+source/msttcorefonts/+bug/431217](https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+source/msttcorefonts/+bug/431217)

See post #21

---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-02-24
Hi, 

Thank you for the link.

I let sudo dpkg --configure -a run before going home last night and when I got home this morning I got the following (I only pasted the last bit of this).

Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.16|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.27|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.18|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.12|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.4|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.17|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.24|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.29|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.22|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Connecting to voxel.dl.sourceforge.net|208.122.31.26|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Giving up.

--2011-02-23 21:16:43--  [http://kent.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/corefonts/webdin32.exe](http://kent.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/corefonts/webdin32.exe)
Resolving kent.dl.sourceforge.net... 212.219.56.167
Connecting to kent.dl.sourceforge.net|212.219.56.167|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Giving up.

--2011-02-23 21:17:44--  [http://internap.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/corefonts/webdin32.exe](http://internap.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/corefonts/webdin32.exe)
Resolving internap.dl.sourceforge.net... failed: Name or service not known.
wget: unable to resolve host address `internap.dl.sourceforge.net'
The following fonts failed to install :  andale32.exe arialb32.exe arial32.exe comic32.exe courie32.exe georgi32.exe impact32.exe times32.exe trebuc32.exe verdan32.exe webdin32.exe.
The fonts are NOT installed.
Please run 'dpkg-reconfigure ttf-mscorefonts-installer' to perform the installation again



I ran 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure ttf-mscorefonts-installer" and all seems to be fine now.
(Going to go through the link anyway to get a better idea of what went wrong).

edit: Also removed WINE as it was not being very friendly with the programs I wanted to install.
I'll rather use virtualbox and my old xp license for now.

edit#2: I was still getting timeouts installing software via apt-get but the instructions on this topic solved that.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4952791&postcount=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4952791&postcount=10)

---

