---
title: "12.10 - I screwed up my desktop"
date: 2012-12-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-14
Well, I did something very stupid.  I haven't tried "eye candy" like the cube in a couple of years, so just messing around today I thought "what the heck - see if it's still the same and then just set it back to normal".  Via the compiz display settings I turned on the cube, turned on rotate cube and ta-da - nothing happened.  I thought "hummm, maybe I need to turn something else off".  So I tried turning off expo, which is needed by unity, so I thought "I'll just turn the Unity plugin off for now".  And hence my woes started.

After some difficulty, I was able to click expo and the unity plugin again, but everything GUI-wise just wasn't "doing very good".  I opened terminal and rebooted, and now I don't seem to have Unity - which in turn means I don't have system tray at the top, the menu bar on the right, etc.  Which also means I can't shutdown except through terminal.

Any ideas on how to correct my mistakes?  I'd say correct my stupity, but I learned a few decades ago that just isn't going to happen! ;)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-12-14
There are some Compiz and Unity  reset commands that can be used in TTY as well as the terminal if you still have access.  [http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/how-to-reset-compiz-and-unity-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/how-to-reset-compiz-and-unity-in-ubuntu.html)

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-14
Well, this is interesting.  I used terminal to shutdown while I was still in compiz settings manager initially (couldn't get out), but after the reboot I can open the terminal, give it focus, and can't type anything in.  

Thanks for the link Frogs Hair - I'll see if I can try any of that.  Hopefully I can get this little bit of my stupidity straightened out ;)

I looked in my folders and managed to find the compiz folders and the compiz config.  None of the files there seemed to contain anything - at least right-clicking and asking to open in the editor eventually returned an empty edit window.

---

### Post by squakie on 2012-12-14
Frogs Hair - THANK YOU!!!!  I was able to get to a working terminal via ctrl/alt/t so I was able follow the links instructions.  I was a little worried as it fixed it but then when I closed the terminal window it all went away and I had to force a hardware restart.  However, after logging back in everything appears normal again.

THANK YOU! ;)

EDIT:  For those interested in the solution:  apparently unity --reset doesn't work in 12.xx.  The link provided by Frogs Hair above provides the instructions for installing and running a package that does it.

---

