---
title: ".vdi install of Ubuntu in Vbox; Can one use the live cd to install a Clonzilla copy"
date: 2011-12-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mikodo on 2011-12-01
Hi,

Just thinking of scenarios to explore different configurations of Ubuntu/Xubuntu in Vbox. If I put a Clonezilla copy of my /home **partition**, on another partition to "play with"; Could I use it during **manual** installs of live CD installs of .vdis' in Vbox? If so, I could configure and try (new to me, coding), to my hearts' content and not break anything important, on my real install and /home partition.

I have a backup copy of my /home partition, on another drive, in case you think to suggest that too!

EDIT: What I mean is, bring forward my /home partition made with Clonezilla, during the Live CD install of U/Xubuntu to the .vdi.

I'm off to bed, so please respond if you can.

Thanks.

---

### Post by jjex22 on 2011-12-01
Little bit confused, are you trying to

A) Copy your /home partition into the .vdi 
B) Mount your /home partiton from the .vdi?

For option A, I think this may help [Clonezilla Guide]("http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-clonezilla/") - I'd recommend setting your virtual machine up as a VHD tho - may be better compatibility.

Fo B you need to edit the /etc/fstab to auto mount the partition on the network - basic intro to fstab [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Fstab") 

personally I just copy the info I want into the virtual machine - after all you can read all the host data anyway should you want something else... it's a lot easier :)

---

### Post by colobix on 2011-12-01
Everything you do in virtualbox is virtual, and will not effect your real system.
Also, wouldn't it easier just to copy the files from your real home partition on to your virtual OS?
To do that, go to Users and Groups and add vboxusers to your existing user name. Fire up your virtual OS in virtualbox, and you'll find "Shared Folders" under the Devices menu.
Now you can just copy/paste from your real HOME folder to your virtual HOME folder.
It's easier and totally secure to "play with" things if you do it that way.

---

### Post by mikodo on 2011-12-01
Thanks jjex22 && colobix:

Copying into shared folders, sounds easier. 

[This]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VHD_%28file_format%29"), and[ this]("http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/library/l-clonezilla/") sound like a lot of fun too.

Thanks, for the clear directions; I needed them!

:)

---

