---
title: "Delay Terminal Window Closing"
date: 2012-02-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Carlington on 2012-02-04
Hello, everyone. I've been with Ubuntu since 10.10, so I guess I'm not brand new, but I haven't done much beyond the surface of the user interface. Basically, I've written a (very, very short) script in Bash:
```
#!/bin/bash
fortune | cowthink -f turtle
```
This script displays a turtle in the terminal, and has it use text generated by the fortune-mod package as its "thought-bubble". However, whenever I run this script, the terminal window closes as soon as the output is displayed. I know this is usually desirable, but in this case it isn't. Is there any way to delay the terminal closing, either for a certain time interval or until a given keystroke from the user?
Also, is there any way to add a shortcut to this script to the unity bar, so I don't have to go the [Alt+F2] > "wiseturtle.sh" > [Enter] route every time?

Thanks heaps for any help you can give me,
Carlington :)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-02-04
I get the following output . Did you install the the cowsay package ?```
#!/bin/bash
fortune | cowthink -f turtle
The program 'fortune' is currently not installed. The program 'cowthink' is currently not installed.  You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install fortune-mod
You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install cowsay

``` 
After installing the packages I see this hungry fella and I had no problem with the terminal. I will try to make a launcher or keyboard shortcut and get back to you     . :o 
```
( You will feel hungry again in another )
( hour.                                 )
 ---------------------------------------
    o                                  ___-------___
     o                             _-~~             ~~-_
      o                         _-~                    /~-_
             /^\__/^\         /~  \                   /    \
           /|  O|| O|        /      \_______________/        \
          | |___||__|      /       /                \          \
          |          \    /      /                    \          \
          |   (_______) /______/                        \_________ \
          |         / /         \                      /            \
           \         \^\\         \                  /               \     /
             \         ||           \______________/      _-_       //\__//
               \       ||------_-~~-_ ------------- \ --/~   ~\    || __/
                 ~-----||====/~     |==================|       |/~~~~~
                  (_(__/  ./     /                    \_\      \.
                         (_(___/                         \_____)_)

```

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-02-04
I have the same problem with the terminal closing too fast unless I copy and paste the script . I created a launcher from the main menu and added the script as part of the command but it needs to open the terminal and then run the script and it may be possible to control the display time just as it is possible to delay the start of an application .

---

### Post by Carlington on 2012-02-04
Probably worth mentioning at this point that I'm running 11.10 currently. The stuff in the code tag in my OP, I have that saved in a file called "wiseturtle.sh". I know how to run this file from a terminal window, in which case it works fine. However, running the script by double-clicking the icon in Nautilus gives the result I described in the OP. Also, I don't know how to add launchers to the panel in Unity.

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-02-04
> **Carlington said:**
> Hello, everyone. I've been with Ubuntu since 10.10, so I guess I'm not brand new, but I haven't done much beyond the surface of the user interface. Basically, I've written a (very, very short) script in Bash:
```
#!/bin/bash
fortune | cowthink -f turtle
```
This script displays a turtle in the terminal, and has it use text generated by the fortune-mod package as its "thought-bubble". However, whenever I run this script, the terminal window closes as soon as the output is displayed.

Try adding the sleep command to the end to force it pause for a period of time:
```
#!/bin/bash
fortune | cowthink -f turtle && sleep 5s
```
...this will make it sleep (pause) for 5 seconds.

---

### Post by Carlington on 2012-02-04
That's EXACTLY the sort of thing I was looking for, thankyou very much. I feel very silly, I just absolutely could not think of what command there could be to perform that function.
As for adding a launcher to the Unity bar, is that even possible?

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2012-02-04
If the idea is to make a popup, then [zenity](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/oneiric/en/man1/zenity.1.html) can be used.

```

zenity --info --text="$(fortune | cowthink -f turtle)" --timeout=5

```

---

### Post by VCoolio on 2012-02-04
if you want the terminal to stay, execute bash at the end:```
#!/bin/sh
fortune | cowthink -f turtle
bash
```

---

