---
title: "Cannot save X Configuration File"
date: 2008-06-13
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Mahinva on 2008-06-13
I've done some searching, but the closest pre-existing post I could find dealt with 64-Bit, and I am a 32-bit user who is trying to switch from XP - I am sorry if this problem has been covered elsewhere.

Whenever I am at Ubuntu's log in screen, the resolution appears correctly, but when I enter my password, the screen flickers and reverts to an incorrect resolution. My monitor runs at 1440X900, and NVIDIA X Server shows 1440X900 to be the selected resolution when I open it. When I change the resolution to AUTO, the monitor displays correctly. So, AUTO *seems* to be the solution - and I'm fine with that.

Every time I start up Ubuntu, I have to go through this process. It doesn't take too long, but I hate having to constantly go through and change that setting. I read in another thread that I should save a backup of xorg.conf before I start tweaking settings, in case things go wrong - so I did make a backup. Now, when I set the resolution to AUTO and try to save the config file, I get: 

"Unable to create new X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'."

If I try to delete the backup file I made, it fails, saying that permission was denied. I followed [_these_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=648187&postcount=4") steps to make the backup:

```
cd /etc/X11
sudo cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.bak
```


How do I fix this, so I can save the X Server settings and avoid having to adjust my resolution after every startup?

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-06-13
the problem seems that nvidia-settings doesnot have permissioins to make its own bakcup try running the nvidia x settings as root, so it gets all priviledges to make its own backup
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```


Also, some backup sommands

to make your own backup
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```

to delete the backup 
```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```

to restore a backup 
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

sam

---

### Post by Mahinva on 2008-06-13
Thanks for the quick reply, sam!

I ran gksudo nvidia-settings and was able to save the configuration - I did not get any sort of error message, so I presume it saved just fine. I rebooted and unfortunately, the resolution displayed incorrectly. I ran gksudo nvidia-settings a second time and rebooted. On the second reboot, a NVIDIA screen flashed momentarily, which gave me hope that it worked. Unfortuantely, it did not - the setting does not seem to save.

In order to remove the backup, I had to change "bak" to "backup" for the terminal command.

Here is a copy of xorg.conf:

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "WDE L1975NW"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5500"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1440x900 +0+0"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-06-13
hey, i know this might soud a bit stupid, but i just read a thread where a guy was having the exact same problem, and what he did was.... he saved the nvidia settings, then restarted, and before logging in he changed the session do not choose "last session", choose something else , i dont remember the options, but something like "default session" or "gnome session" you can change the session by clicking the option thing in the bottom left of the login screen

you might also try checking on in system>preferences>screen resolution

you might want to give it a shot and report if it works, ill keep researching and see if i find something

sam

---

### Post by Mahinva on 2008-06-13
That didn't sound stupid at all - it sounded very feasible. Unfortunately, it did not work. I tried changing the session to Xscripts and then to gnome. In both restart attempts, the resolution went back to being incorrect.

I had tried looking at the screen resolution, but it says that I'm set to 1440X900. So, it seems that nvidia and screen resolution are reporting the same setting, but this setting doesn't display correctly.

I do appreciate your help - this has got me stumped!

EDIT:

I found this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=389636](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=389636)

Post #3 by fenian suggests what you've told me to do (run as sudo), but post #2 seems to cover an alternative method.

I am wondering if AstalaVista's method would work, but since I'm new to Ubuntu, I'm a bit hesitant to muck around in terminal, especially when it comes to sudo commands. Does AstalaVista's method sound reasonable for this version of Ubuntu (8.04)?  I'll try it, if it is reasonable - though I'll probably have some questions.

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-06-13
there are various suggestions through the whole thread at this follwing link
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=525472&page=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=525472&page=1)

you might want to take a look at it

in the meantime, mayb someone else who has solved this problem before or with more experienced with nvidia drivers/config come and post something, if i find out something else, ill post.

sam

---

### Post by Mahinva on 2008-06-13
Thanks sam, I will bookmark this thread and keep an eye on it, as well as check out the suggestions listed in the link you provide.

Thanks again for your help :D

---

### Post by Xiong Chiamiov on 2008-06-13
Are you using the nvidia-glx-new package from the repos?  You might try using envy (also in the repos) to reinstall the driver, since I believe it will regenerate an X config for you.

---

### Post by Xiong Chiamiov on 2008-06-13
I might try changing this
```

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1440x900 +0+0"
EndSection

```
to this
```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes       "1440x900"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes       "1440x900"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes       "1440x900"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Mahinva on 2008-06-13
> **Xiong Chiamiov said:**
> Are you using the nvidia-glx-new package from the repos?  You might try using envy (also in the repos) to reinstall the driver, since I believe it will regenerate an X config for you.

Yes, nvidia-glx-new package is installed. I think I had installed it in order to run WoW through Wine (WoW plays wonderfully aside from the common mouse issue). Do I have to uninstall nvidia-glx-new in order to install envy, or can/should both run side-by-side? I've the feeling envy replaces glx-new but I don't want to guesstimate anything.

EDIT: Newbie question time! I see how to edit X server as an 'admin' (sudo), but if I go into xorg.conf using text editor and then try to save, it will not. I suppose this means I'd have to change the config file through terminal - how do I call up/modify/save?

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-06-13
> **Mahinva said:**
> Yes, nvidia-glx-new package is installed. I think I had installed it in order to run WoW through Wine (WoW plays wonderfully aside from the common mouse issue). Do I have to uninstall nvidia-glx-new in order to install envy, or can/should both run side-by-side? I've the feeling envy replaces glx-new but I don't want to guesstimate anything.

EDIT: Newbie question time! I see how to edit X server as an 'admin' (sudo), but if I go into xorg.conf using text editor and then try to save, it will not. I suppose this means I'd have to change the config file through terminal - how do I call up/modify/save?
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

a text editor with admin proviledges will open

sam

---

### Post by Mahinva on 2008-06-13
Sam, thank you - I was able to change xorg.conf to what Xiong Chiamiov had posted!

After saving the changes, I did ctrl+alt+backspace (read it was to reload xserver, but not restart computer[?]) and the change took place. I then restarted the computer - although the login screen appeared at a slightly blurred resolution, the monitor's resolution became correct after login.

If things revert somehow, I'll definitely post on this thread again. I am hoping that this problem has been fixed for good. I did not install envy, although that would've been my next step.

Thank you both for your help! :D

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-06-13
no problem man, glad its working now
enjoy ubuntu :)
sam

---

