---
title: "12.04 Login Issues"
date: 2013-06-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Systmfdwn147 on 2013-06-04
I'm running 64-bit Ubuntu 12.04 and when I try to login under my account the screen goes black and and it just kicks me back to the login screen, but I can login to a guest account. I've searched for a solution to no avail. 

This started when Ubuntu locked up and I used a virtual terminal to reboot. After that it started having issues. I've tried using recovery mode and changing my password, but that didn't seem to do anything.

---

### Post by dan08 on 2013-06-04
I don't have a full solution, because I'm not even 100 percent sure how I fixed the problem when it happened to me a few weeks ago. I had the same problem after messing around with some remote connection tools, and I screwed it up enough that it started behaving the way you are describing. I was able to connect and login using ssh, and I started looking for gnome and xsession files, and pretty much deleting all the ones that were created around the time I started having the problem. I think eventually I found a .Xsession file in my home directory and the problem was solved after deleting it. I DO NOT recommend you do this. Mine was a test system that I had no problem with rebuilding if I totally tanked it. But maybe this can help point you down the right road. Good luck.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-06-04
I would look at the **~/.Xauthority** file first - if it's become owned by root you can safely 'rm' (delete) it

---

### Post by Systmfdwn147 on 2013-06-04
Thanks for your responses! ~/.Xauthority was owned by root, I was able to take it back with:

```
sudo chown user:user .Xauthority
```

Am now able to log back in :)

---

