---
title: "11.04 newly installed can't connect to the internet"
date: 2011-06-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by vamunar on 2011-06-04
i've installed ubuntu 11.04. now i'm having a problem. i cannot connect to the internet (wired). it does not connect automatically. what happens is the "signal" symbol just loads then stops and a message comes out that say wired network disconnected something like that. i don't know why that comes out because it hasn't even connected.

then i go to "edit connections" and edit under the "wired" tab. device MAC address and Cloned MAC address is empty and MTU is in automatic. i tried 

```
ifconfig
```

and got the MAC address from eth0 HWaddr but i don't know what to put for Cloned MAC address. i left MTU as automatic. i still can't connect. i tried searching from other forums about the same problem but i can't find any. pls help me. ](*,)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-06-05
Can you tell us what make/model/chipset your network device is? Can you also post the last ten lines of dmesg after you've tried to connect, use the following command:

```
dmesg | tail -n10
```

---

### Post by Drate on 2011-06-05
Apologies if this sounds obvious, but as an I.T. guy, it's the thing I personally kick myself about at least once a month:

Are you sure the cable is plugged in on both sides (computer and wall jack)?

I have spent many an hour troubleshooting the software when it was ultimately something as simple as plugging it in.

Also, try a different network cable.

Also, if you continue having troubles you might try this as a diagnostic measure: Download [Puppy Linux]("http://puppylinux.org/main/How%20to%20download%20Puppy.htm") and see if you can connect with it.

But certainly, what the first guy said, if you can provide that information that will be the best place to start (after verifying physical connection).

---

### Post by Tinnum on 2011-06-26
Sorry if it is bad form to join someone else's "please help",but I seem to have an identilcal problem. On eth0 there is no IP address showing. (Everything was fine until I removed Mythbuntu)!

---

### Post by GhostOfTomJoad on 2011-12-07
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Can you tell us what make/model/chipset your network device is? Can you also post the last ten lines of dmesg after you've tried to connect, use the following command:

```
dmesg | tail -n10
```


To add to this, you should also check your IPv6 settings.  Open Dash, the Settings, then Network.  If it is on, change the method to "Ignore."  that was the problem I had.

---

### Post by lisati on 2011-12-07
The OP hasn't been around since August. :(

---

