---
title: ".ods document won't open"
date: 2010-08-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by flyver on 2010-08-10
My rather important .ods document simply won't open. I double click it and Openoffice seems to open, but then nothing happes. I've tried to open it from within Openoffice as well, but again nothing happens.

It weighs 1,5 KB and I definately think it was way fatter before... I can't see what I could have done that could have affected the document...

Is there any way to revert to an older saved version of the file, using Openoffice?

Thanks!

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-08-10
From a terminal try:
```
ooffice -o filename.ods
```
and post the output and error messages.

---

### Post by flyver on 2010-08-10
Thanks for answering. Unfortunately nothing happens when I do that. No error message, just the Openoffice "sign" appearing for a second, then nothing.

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-08-10
Check the 'file' integrity of the .ods file:
```
file filename.ods
```
and post the result.

---

### Post by flyver on 2010-08-10
At least that returned _something_!

*CDF V2 Document, corrupt: Cannot read summary info*

---

### Post by linux18 on 2010-08-10
EDIT: just checked ods is a spreadsheet file, not a text document. rename it to an xml file and open it in firefox to extract important data, but it sounds like it's corrupted.

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-08-10
Your file is corrupt... sorry :(

The output should be:
```
filename.ods: OpenDocument Spreadsheet
```

---

### Post by Hagar Delest on 2010-08-11
Is it 1.5kB or 1,5kB (1500kB)? I guess it's the former. In that case, there is nothing left.

Check your the backup folder in case there is something (see [[Tutorial] The OOo user profile](http://user.services.openoffice.org/en/forum/viewtopic.php?f=74&t=12426)).

Was the file on an external drive or on the HD?

---

### Post by flyver on 2010-08-12
Does indeed seem like there's nothing left :(

There was nothing in the backup folder.

1,5 KB, not 1500 KB.

Thanks for trying to help!

---

