---
title: "8.04 Hangs when downloading packages"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Ikith on 2008-04-24
I don't know if this is me but I'm browsing around on this right now I can download files using firefox but whenever I go into a package manager and try to download and install a package the download just hangs at 0% I've had this one waiting for an hour and still 0% I've tried restarting this computer the router the comcast modem and still nothing. It does it wired or wireless. Please help.

---

### Post by macogw on 2008-04-24
Too many people are trying at once.  The servers can't handle it.  Try again tomorrow or the day after.

---

### Post by Ikith on 2008-04-24
> **macogw said:**
> Too many people are trying at once.  The servers can't handle it.  Try again tomorrow or the day after.

Ick... Ok thank you.

---

### Post by Tavorisch on 2008-04-24
yah haha, same thing is going on with me.. i figured servers were to busy,.. i just made a post too sadly =(

---

### Post by Cresho on 2008-04-24
yep!  same thing.  I do the updates, leave the sucker alone and have a coffee.  When I come back, It all works fine and is updating.

---

### Post by oboedad55 on 2008-04-24
> **Ikith said:**
> I don't know if this is me but I'm browsing around on this right now I can download files using firefox but whenever I go into a package manager and try to download and install a package the download just hangs at 0% I've had this one waiting for an hour and still 0% I've tried restarting this computer the router the comcast modem and still nothing. It does it wired or wireless. Please help.

I'm having the same problem. I figure the servers are slammed right now so I'll try later. I really don't think it's a hardware problem on your end.

Peace,

---

### Post by Cypher on 2008-04-24
It's a lot easier to just download the ISO through a torrent and update using the CD.

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-04-24
happened to me, to resolve it, just go into synaptic>settings> repositories,

and where it says download from: <server>, click "other" and then click on choose best server

woorked for me

---

