---
title: "NVIDIA X server settings resolution problem solutions did'nt work for me."
date: 2009-07-23
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Dnyce2k6 on 2009-07-23
Hello All. I'm relatively new to Ubuntu, a 'noob' if you will :) (just switched from Vista). Anyhow, I've viewed several threads having to do with a problem I'm having:

( Unable to remove old X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup' )
This occurs whenever I enter the menu, and try to change my resolution from the default 1280 x 1024 resolution to the optimal resolution of my monitor (1680 x 1050). When I restart my computer the resolution wont "stick" to what I set it as. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I've tried several remedies already, which seem to have worked for some, but not for me. I've tried:

1.
-Open the NVIDIA X server settings window, go to x server display configuration, set my optimal resolution, then click save to x configuration file, preview
-use gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf to open the file I want to replace 
-Copy from the preview page previously opened and paste over what is in the newly opened window, save new file.

2.
-Press Alt+F2
[LEFT]-type [I]gksu nvidia-settings
-apply and save settings
(This route makes it so that the --[/I] Unable to remove old X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup' -- message doesn't appear, but did not make the settings stick.)


3.
gksudo nvidia-settings to run the applet as root or
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf to edit it manually.

4.
Type the following in the terminal:
sudo rm -rf  /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
cd /etc/X11
ls -al xor*
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[/LEFT]
I'm at the end of my wits and really don't want to have to use Vista ever again. Somebody please help. It would be greatly appreciative to anyone who could offer some advice.

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-07-23
Paste your xorg.conf file here please.

---

### Post by Dnyce2k6 on 2009-07-23
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf in the terminal screen got me this:


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Gateway FPD2275W"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6150SE nForce 430"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1680x1050 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-07-23
Ok go to System > Prefrences> Display

If you get;
It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool. Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?

Just click NO, and set the resolution.

---

### Post by Dnyce2k6 on 2009-07-23
The resolution is already 1680 x 1050 here. I don't know if this helps but the refresh rate is 50 Hz and rotation is normal. Btw, thanks for the help. :D

---

### Post by Dnyce2k6 on 2009-07-23
As I said, I've done all the options listed above, but, is there anything I could've overlooked or done wrong?

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-07-23
You can look @ this post:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)

---

### Post by DarinB on 2009-07-23
have you added the nvidia accelerated graphics drive 173 or 180? in hardware drivers?

---

### Post by Dnyce2k6 on 2009-07-23
Yes. I'm using NVIDIA accelerated graphics drivers 180 (Recommended). My screen is optimal resolution right now, and the driver isin use. When I restart is when I have the problem. I always have to change my resolution in the NVIDIA X Server Settings menu.:confused:

---

### Post by Dnyce2k6 on 2009-07-23
I restarted my computer a moment ago and noticed my settings finally remained the same. I think the suggestion to:

(Ok go to System > Prefrences> Display

If you get;
It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool. Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?

Just click NO, and set the resolution.)

...actually paid off somehow. Thanks again everyone. :D

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-07-23
Your welcome sorry I forgot to tell you to reboot.

---

### Post by onaed on 2009-10-18
Just thought I'd add a little something. I had the exact problem as Dnyce2k6. Tried all options, nothing worked.

Then I also did what Dnyce2k6 did and opened the "vanilla" deisplay options under **System > Prefrences> Display **and answered No.I then used those settings to set my resolution which stuck, however, my display (Plasma TV) droppped back to 1080i (rather than 1080p) and it looked as if I'd lost hardware acceleration. So...

THEN, I went back to the nvidia-settings (using **gksu nvidia-settings**), set the resolution there and it STUCK!I don't know if all of that was a red-herring or whether it was the fact I used **gksu** instead of **gksudo**, but I finally got the result I needed.

Thanks for everyone's input and thanks to Dnyce2k6 for having thr same problem as me and posting about it

---

