---
title: "9.10 Update Problem"
date: 2010-01-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by pemur1 on 2010-01-18
I updated to 9.10 from 9.04. Everything seemed to go fine but when I rebooted, I encountered an error about not being able to load my graphics driver. I read through a few other sites and installed EnvyNG in the hopes of re-installing the drivers. EnvyNG comes up saying "EnvyNG has detected that the headers for your kernel are missing and cannot be installed". I'm at a loss as to what to do next. Any assistance is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by llawwehttam on 2010-01-18
```
sudo apt-get install kernel-headers
```

maybe?

---

### Post by pemur1 on 2010-01-18
> **llawwehttam said:**
> ```
sudo apt-get install kernel-headers
```

maybe?

I get this:

> Package kernel-headers is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
E: Package kernel-headers has no installation candidate

---

### Post by pemur1 on 2010-01-18
I guess there's no solution for this.

---

### Post by pemur1 on 2010-01-20
I guess I might as well regard this as solved.

After numerous attempts of getting 9.10 to run correctly and following some of the troubleshooting that others tried, I've decided to rid myself of Ubuntu. None of the suggestions of installing the Nvidia drivers worked and eventually, I wasn't able to even log into GUI.

I downloaded and installed Kubuntu 9.10 last night, but haven't had a chance to play around with it. From what I've seen though, it seems to be pretty stable. I still need to install my video drivers, but I'm not in a big hurry to do that. It seems to be running fine with the generic drivers.

Hopefully, the updates and upgrades with Kubuntu will run smoother than Ubuntu. We'll just have to wait and see.

---

