---
title: "8.10 downloads torrent slow"
date: 2009-02-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mamamac on 2009-02-28
New to ubuntu, followed install for 8.10 Intrepid Ibis. Went to p2p bit torrent, started downloading a 1 hour tv show. 19 hours later it finished.:confused: There has to be something I'm doing wrong.Can anyone help with a simple, plain, american english set of instructions to correct this if possible?

                  thank you

                           mama mac

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-02-28
Your torrent may not have enough seeds, check your torrent.

Also, if you don't limit your upload, and you're on DSL, the maxed out upload may choke your download, and limit the overall speed.

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-02-28
And if your machine is connected to a router, go into your router and open that port.

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2009-02-28
I use the Deluge torrent client. You can find it in the package manager. The only set up I do is enable using random ports. You should see that when you first start the app. I then set the max download speed and upload speed a little under what my ISP allows and I am done. I get the max speed my ISP will allow. Ubuntu has nothing to do with it. If your seeds are not sending it you won't get it. Try it on a Ubuntu torrent and you will get good speeds.

---

### Post by arm-c on 2009-02-28
These can be difficult.

BUT, you do need to ensure that your port is open that you are using.  The torrent program will allow you to check that in preferences as you are setting it.

As a previous poster stated, it all depends on how many seeds are out there, so some could take forever or just not finish.  Check the availability of a seed you are looking at.

Finally, in order to open your port, if you need to, firestarter is your software firewall interface and you should be able to find instructions by google to fix that if you can't figure it out in the program.  After that, you will likely need to address your router if you are using a wireless router and ensure that the ports are open also.  Closed ports result in a very slow download regardless of number of seeds and seeders out there. 

I use Deluge.  It is good, simple and efficient.  The settings enable you to control your max upload.  Note that the protocol for torrent is that if you upload at slow/no rate, it will limit your download rate typically.  Do some reading on torrent protocol on wikipedia or other sites.

Good luck!

---

### Post by mamamac on 2009-02-28
To those who offered their experience to mama mac this morning, I thank you. Be advised, I installed ubuntu version 6.1, and downloaded an hour long tv show in less than 90 min. so I re-installed version 8.1 and attempted the same download, from the same site, with the same seeds, and the same torrent, and the same system, with the same wirelessness......and the program will be done sometime the day after tomarrow. What does Hardy Heron have that Intrepid Ibis lacks? And please tell me how to open a port.
I dont know what, where, or how.  Mama mac is brand spankin new to this stuff, and a friend showed me how to install with a disc. :P  

          Thank You
                   
          Mama mac     PS I'm trying deluge now, thanks mkvmntr

---

