---
title: "10.04 - Cairo dock question; &quot;Missing Disk&quot; question"
date: 2010-05-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-16
EDIT:  The Cairo dock question has been answered.  When I exited a full screen app and went to the dock the icon in question was for the update manager.

> Well, I installed Cairo dock a few days ago, and everything is going okay except for a couple of things.  One I already posted, but I ran into this today:

I have a rotating "icon" at the bottom of my screen that looks sort of like a open cardboard box with the flaps to the sides with an arrow coming out of the top of the box going to what looks like a CD and from the CD back into the bottom of the box.  What the heck does it mean??


Also, I have another problem not related to Cairo dock, and it's not unique to just Ubuntu - I have the same problem when I boot Windows XP Pro as well:

- I had disconnected my 2nd hard drive from the 1st IDE channel because of a speed difference between it and the main drive.  I did this several weeks ago.  This weekend I connected the 2nd hard drive as the slave device on the 2nd IDE channel with my DVD/RW as the master.  In that configuration the BIOS showed the drives correctly, but Windows saw nothing on my 2nd IDE channel and Ubuntu wouldn't even boot.  I switched so that the 2nd hard drive is the master and the DVD/RW is the slave, and now Ubuntu at leasts boots but Windows and Ubuntu do not see the 2nd hard drive - they only see the DVD/RW.  When the system boots it auto-detects all of the drives ok, and shows them in the summary BIOS screen ok; they just don't show right in either OS.  Any ideas??

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-05-17
Solved.  Of all the stupid things I've done........I forgot that I had completely wiped the drive before, so I needed to define a partition.

Dave (red-faced, looking down at his feet, shuffling one foot from side to side)

---

