---
title: "32 bit 12.04 will not boot AGAIN after battery fully discharged"
date: 2013-08-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by revshift on 2013-08-06
I'm using an Acer Aspire One zg5 with 32 bit Ubuntu 12.04.


It was stuck at [checking battery state], after multiple reboots and  attempts to log in through tty1... I managed to force an fsck, rebooted  and now it's freezing at some grub-editenv thing... 


I am not interested in trying to use boot-repair again.  I have tried to  use them several times in the past, and running the software with its  recommended mode seems to cause more problems every time (resulting in  me having to reinstall OS).  When I sought help from the email  boot-repair itself suggests, I was sent a list of expectations that  included making a monetary contribution or translation volunteering.  I  am not capable of contributing either of those items, so according to  their message, I will not be recieving any advice.  I replied to one of  the messages saying that I could contribute by promoting them, and got  no reply.


I am able to ctl + alt + F1 and login, but I have been unable to install packages through tty1 when booting without Live USB.

It has booted occasionally when I selected older kernals, but been glitchy, either way.

I'm not sure what info I need to produce to get guidence.  Anyone wanna tackle this with me?

---

### Post by Doomspark on 2013-08-07
Have you tried reseating your laptop battery?  I have seen that resolve a variety of boot issues.
Does the problem go away if the battery is charged?

---

