---
title: "9.04, Firefox 3.5, no youtube videos"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-06
Normally I wouldn't even worry about YouTube videos, but I have an ancient Compaq desktop I want to take apart and I can't figure out how to get the dang case open.  I found a video on YouTube that sounds promising, however I am unable to play it.  I get a message about Java script not enabled or flash player missing.  I thought, hummmmmm, I did some manual stuff to update Firefox to 3.5, perhaps I need flash again.  Went into package manager, flagged flash nonfree and the installer for reinstallation, let it do it's thing, and still no go.

I have to believe this is something simple, and as such I'm ashamed to say I don't know what.  Any ideas?

Thanks in advance!

Dave :)

---

### Post by Dark Aspect on 2009-11-06
> **anewguy said:**
> Normally I wouldn't even worry about YouTube videos, but I have an ancient Compaq desktop I want to take apart and I can't figure out how to get the dang case open.  I found a video on YouTube that sounds promising, however I am unable to play it.  I get a message about Java script not enabled or flash player missing.  I thought, hummmmmm, I did some manual stuff to update Firefox to 3.5, perhaps I need flash again.  Went into package manager, flagged flash nonfree and the installer for reinstallation, let it do it's thing, and still no go.

I have to believe this is something simple, and as such I'm ashamed to say I don't know what.  Any ideas?

Thanks in advance!

Dave :)

Hm..

Well a temporary fix would be to download the youtube video and skip over the flash bit.  

```
sudo apt-get install youtube-dl
```

Try to install the restricted packages, that might help:

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-11-06
Maybe a conflict try [Firefox optimization and troubleshooting thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1193567")

---

### Post by laidback on 2009-11-07
This might assist you.

Check in synaptic to see if you've got:-

swfdec-mozilla
gnash

loaded. 

If so remove them. I found that this resolved a flash problem I had with the BBC iplayer and flash, for some reason FF got itself in a right muddle and claimed I hadn't got flash 10.xx, when I knew it was installed. After removing swfdec-mozilla (I didn't have gnash installed) all was sweetness and light.

---

### Post by Ant59 on 2009-11-07
This should fix your problem. It worked for me yesterday :)

```
sudo apt-get install libnss3-tools libnss3-dev
```

---

### Post by drabeleta on 2009-11-07
Hi!
I'm kind of having the same problems with flash. Tried everything I already saw in foruns and it doesn't work, most of the times because it says I don't have the packages. Well ..How can I get them? I'm sorry, I'm really new in ubuntu :$ Tried to download flash directly from the adobe website, but I don't get how to install it, because everything I do doesn't work...
Please help me...
Thanks:redface:

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-07
Already have the restricted stuff installed, in fact, I tried reinstalling all of the flash, restricted stuff, etc. but still no go.

The libssn3xxxxxx stuff is for network security, so unless someone can give me a convincing argument as to why I should have it, I'm leaving that alone.

What's interesting to me is that Firefox 3.5 is showing nothing under the plugins - no flash, no nothing.  In fact, under the add-ons in the tools menu the only thing that shows is default under the themes tab.  Maybe I'm remembering incorrectly, but I thought flash showed there if it was installed.  Perhaps I need a version of flash specifically for Firefox 3.5.3?

Still at a loss.  Wouldn't be a big deal to me anyway, but I really need 1 stupid youtube video - how to get that dang case open on an *OLD* Compaq Presario 5360 (one of the ones with the humongous sloping plastic fronts).  Can't find anything but that 1 youtube video that has anything resembling a picture so I can see what to do - if any of you know that would be an added plus to me!

Thanks!
Dave :)

---

### Post by LordHawke on 2009-11-07
Follow the link in the error message on YouTube to the Adobe Flash Player installer website and install the latest version of Adobe Flash Player.

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2009-11-07
On 9.04 try to view it on the original and supported Firefox. I believe it is 3.0 something. It works for me. The Firefox 3.5 i have had installed was either called a web broser or Shirtuko or something like that. Neither seemed to support nost of the add-on that I used. Maybe they do not give you the support for flash that you need to watch utube movies. Firefox 3.5 works fine in my 9.10 install. Maybe an upgrade is in order.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-07
Doesn't install - says wrong architecture, I assume because I'm running 64bit Ubuntu instead of 32bit (the download appears to be only 32bit).

Dave :)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2009-11-07
> **mkvnmtr said:**
> On 9.04 try to view it on the original and supported Firefox. I believe it is 3.0 something. It works for me. The Firefox 3.5 i have had installed was either called a web broser or Shirtuko or something like that. Neither seemed to support nost of the add-on that I used. Maybe they do not give you the support for flash that you need to watch utube movies. Firefox 3.5 works fine in my 9.10 install. Maybe an upgrade is in order.

I have to wait for a 32-bit CD of 9.10 to be mailed out - when I moved I lost my broadband and only have dialup now, and I *REALLY* :) didn't feel like waiting almost 2 days for the download.  I do wonder if it is a lack of 64bit support as well with whatever it was to install Firefox 3.5 on my own.  Waiting on 9.10 to redo a *LOT* of stuff and I guess I'll probably have to wait until then for this video unless I can get gnash to work somehow.

dave :)

---

