---
title: "8.04 - Catch 22 - Trying to Recover Files"
date: 2008-06-09
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tmjva on 2008-06-09
After waiting 36 odd hours waiting for step 5 of 7 to finish installation, I gave up and hit the reset button.

The good news is I have my files.  The bad news is I can't get at them.

If I try to boot up normally I get a blank screen with a mouse cursor as reported before in thread: 

<http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=821155>

If I try to boot up from CD (either 7.10 or 8.04) with 'try it and not install' ability, I can 'ls' them but not copy them elsewhere (like a Flash Drive).  Because I have no permissions as am not the creator.

Any clues as to how to get at my files?

---

### Post by Cypher on 2008-06-09
From the LiveCD use, you should be able to do "cp" with SUDO preceeding it. That will make you Root and there is no way you cannot copy the files out at that point..

---

### Post by tmjva on 2008-06-09
Actually I had dried that, it gave me a syntax error for cp following sudo.  When I get home I'll try again.  I'm thinking it didn't like the mandatory \ in the path for the space name I was copying to, since the flash drive media name was Flash Drive (with a space between Flash and Drive.)

---

### Post by tmjva on 2008-06-10
Yes it worked, I had to remember to use the -r parameter.  It will be tedious, but recovery will be certain.  Too bad there is no sudo for the GUI.

---

### Post by Nameless Neko on 2008-06-10
> **tmjva said:**
> Yes it worked, I had to remember to use the -r parameter.  It will be tedious, but recovery will be certain.  Too bad there is no sudo for the GUI.Not true.  Use gksudo nautilus.

---

### Post by tmjva on 2008-06-14
Was able to retrieve all the files to a thumb drive (several times by dumping them in an Windows box.  Then moved them back after installing Debian.  It works o.k. now.

---

