---
title: "Kernal source code for Nvidia Installation"
date: 2009-07-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Trophy on 2009-07-08
I am running through the installatino guide for the NVidia 185.xx installation drivers to check i have installed what they say i need before runing the driver installation. A few things i am stuck on if some one could help please.

1 - My system says i am runnig binutils 2.19.1 the guide says i need minimum 2.9.5 but i cannot find a later version.

2 - To check for glibc verion 2.0 they say i must type "ls /lib/libc.co.*>6" but nothing happens, the prompt simply moves to the next line.

3 - It says i must have kernel-source, kernel-headers and kernel-devel packages installed in order for the kernel interface to be linked with the closed source portion of the NVIDIA kernal (ok i copied that verbatim from the guide) My kernal is 2.3.28.13-generic but i don't know how to check if the other parts are installed or how to get them.

I am working on Ubuntu 9.04

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-07-08
For Jaunty just do a sudo apt-get install build-essential and make sure to mark completely remove linux restricted modules thats all do a ctrl+alt+F1 and login to tty then do a sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop and then type sudo sh NVIxxxxxx and make sure the driver package is in your home folder.

---

### Post by Trophy on 2009-07-08
OK, so what you,re saying is that Jaunty has all the stuff the Nvidia driver needs appart from one thing and this can be installed by

sudo apt-get install build-essential

What does this install? (always good to know what the command does rather than just typing in what you're told)

The other commands i understand but didn't want to run until i knew the pre-requisits were sorted.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2009-07-08
You may search for a package at [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/) to see what it contains.

Nvidia manual installation: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual)

---

### Post by ChaiTan on 2009-07-08
1. 2.19.1 is greater than 2.9.5 as 19 is greater than 9

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-07-08
You don't need kernel source, you just need kernel headers.

Assuming you are using the latest kernel version offered by Ubuntu, you need to install the "linux-headers-generic" package. And if you haven't already, "build-essential". That's it, now (I think) you have everything you need to compile an Nvidia driver.

---

### Post by Trophy on 2009-07-08
OK, really feeling stupid now!!!

I got:
Linux Kernel 2.6.28-13-generic
X.Org 7.4 (i don't have XFree86)
Kernel modutils 3.7-pre9
binutils 2.19.1
GNU make 3.81
gcc 4.33

i have run :
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-2.6.28-13-generic

I have the file NVIDIA-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run on my desktop

i hit Ctr-Alt-F1
 at this point my xorg.conf file looked like this:

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

i ran 
 sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

then 
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run

ran through the installation, only thing that didn't work was when it tried to check the NVidia site for some file but then it made it's own.

The xorg.conf now looks like this

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed May 27 03:15:36 PDT 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

But on reboot the screen has a "_" which flashes and nothing else happens.

I hit Ctr-Alt-F1 and uninstall and replace the Xorg.conf to get back the beginning.

What is going wrong?

---

### Post by Trophy on 2009-07-10
ok that was my problem. It couldn't determin which was my primary device. Using the PCI# from 

sudo lshw -businfo | grep -i display

I inserted the following lines in the xorg.conf file under the device section

Busid "PCI:1:0:0"
option "sli" "auto"

and rebooted ... everything works fine now ... thanks

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2009-07-10
Thanks for the extensive feedback.

---

