---
title: "9.10 Live CD Issues"
date: 2009-12-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by chipper910 on 2009-12-06
Hi.
 
I have an eMachines Desktop which I bought back in June, and I am looking to switch to Linux.  I downloaded the .iso file, and burned it as an image file.  The Live CD gives me the menu, and I can click on "Try Ubuntu without changing settings".  Once I select that, it runs through some stuff in the command line, and once it gets to the part where there are several *'s, it gives me a black screen and then it fades gray and it turns black again.
 
I have tried altering the command line with different things, I checked the checksum, and I burned at the lowest possible speed.  I also had the same problem with Linux Mint 8, so I guess it is my computer.
 
*** - The Linux Mint disc ran fine on my Windows ME computer that is 8 tears old, so I am a bit confused.

---

### Post by CaptainMark on 2009-12-06
put the ubuntu live cd into someone elses computer, easiest way to see if its the cd or your hardware. Sometimes people just have an unlucky setup, one thing ive found with hardware when on linux, it will either be really really easy, or really really difficult, nowhere in between

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-12-06
Have you tried hitting f4 at the menu and selecting safe mode? Not sure it's relevant, but wouldn't hurt anyway.

---

### Post by chipper910 on 2009-12-06
I have tried running in safe and recovery mode - both to no avail. 

Like I said earlier, I tried it on one of my old computers, and it worked fine.  So, I think it is my computer.

What else could I try?

---

### Post by anchorschmidt on 2009-12-06
Do you really need the latest version of Ubuntu. Ubuntu 9.04 is going to be supported for another year. I still use it on my secondary computer and it works great!

---

### Post by chipper910 on 2009-12-06
> **anchorschmidt said:**
> Do you really need the latest version of Ubuntu. Ubuntu 9.04 is going to be supported for another year. I still use it on my secondary computer and it works great!

I will try that later. :)

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-12-06
Can you give us some specs on this PC?

---

### Post by chipper910 on 2009-12-07
Sure.

Emachines ET1161-05

OS: Windows 7 Ultimate
Video Card: NVidia GeForce 6150 SE (nForce 430)
Processor: AMD Athlon LE-1620 ~ 2.3 GHz
BIOS: Phoenix - v6.00PG
RAM: 2 GB
HD: 160 GB


I bought it for $300 at Best Buy, but this computer is only 6 months old... I really don't see what the problem is.

---

