---
title: "LTS 24.04.02 freezing"
date: 2023-07-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by alexbaqua on 2023-07-25
Dear all
I am using Ubuntu LTS 24.04.02 in AsusVivo laptop. When i access internet system is freezing and i have to force boot the system by pressing power button. I installed nothing into the OS only there is only vscode. How to handle this issue are there any users like me experiencing the same issue. Really started to an issue for me. Only could not identified this if local or remote. Let me take it in.
Regards

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2023-07-25
Have you tested the RAM as a good first step?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-07-25
> **alexbaqua said:**
> Dear all
I am using Ubuntu LTS 24.04.02 in AsusVivo laptop. When i access internet system is freezing and i have to force boot the system by pressing power button. I installed nothing into the OS only there is only vscode. How to handle this issue are there any users like me experiencing the same issue. Really started to an issue for me. Only could not identified this if local or remote. Let me take it in.
Regards

What is it like in the future?  I'm really curious, since 24.04.2 probably won't be released until sometime in 2025.  Where I am, it is 2023 still and 24.04.0 won't be released until next April.  All these users are living in the future with you?

In short, providing correct details in your posts is VERY important to get good help.

Freezing of a Linux is almost always a hardware issue.  If you run from the install ISO in "Try Ubuntu" mode does the system lock up or not?  If not, then if is a local configuration issue and unlikely to be hardware.  Check the system log files. There are many how-tos for this. Google "ubuntu logs" or learn to use **journalctl**.  Read every line with an error or warning.  Don't let your eyes glaze over.  READ.  Generally, but not always, any hardware issue will be spelled out and often, corrective actions will be provided near the error in the logs.  If not, take the general part of the error and copy/paste it into google for help.  Things that look like they are specific to your system only shouldn't be included in the search, so don't put in timestamps or hostnames.  Learning to read log files is a required skill and it will take a little time, but the more you practice and do the research, the easier it will become. It is skill like riding a bicycle/unicycle or learning to fly a plane. It is only hard in the beginning, but it will quickly become 2nd nature.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-07-25
Current latest in DEV is 23.10. Current interim release is 23.04.Current LTS release is 22.04. 

24.04 is slated for release in 04/2024, thus the release codename "24.04".

Browser freezing? I am assuming FireFox.

The first thing to try is to go to "Settings" > General > Scroll down to "Performance"... Uncheck the checkbox at "Use recommended performance settings"... Uncheck the checkbox that then appears at "Use hardware acceleration when available"

If that helps (or not), what is your graphics GPU?

---

