---
title: "11.04 on eee pc 700 will not install"
date: 2011-05-04
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by BirdZerk on 2011-05-04
I have an Asus eeepc 700 with a 4gb ssd.  When I try to install 11.04 it says I need a minimum of 4.4gb before it will install.  Question, now what do I do?

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2011-05-04
what i first wanted to post:
> if me, and i wanted to get ubuntu-ing with a minimum of fuss?

I'd do a server install and then

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

i have an 8gb netbook, the standard install took 3.3gb.

but, i forgot swap. how much RAM do you have on that machine? you will have to do the 'manual' partitioning and specify no swap.

EDIT: ah, that explains the 4.4 requirement. you have 512mb of ram, so ubuntu assumes 2x ram = swap and comes to the conclusion that you 'need' a 1gb swap partition. 3.3 + 1 + fuzzy rounding = 4.4.

try again, but select manual partitioning?

---

### Post by BirdZerk on 2011-05-04
I cannot even get that far in the installation.
I do not need all the programs, only chrome at first.
So if I install the server edition how do I get unity?

---

### Post by bennachie on 2011-05-04
The simplest solution may be to do what I do with my eeePC 701, which also has a 4G SSD. I shove in an SDHC card (I use an 8GB one, but I'm sure that a 4GB version would be fine) and nominate that as my "/home" partition. The SSD is, of course, my "/" partition, and I do without a swap space. 

The installer apparently accepts that it has a total of 12GB disk space to work with, and goes ahead without any fuss.

Unity actually works rather well in that environment, it's when I'm using my desktop with a 24-inch screen that the global menu arrangements become an absolute pain in the neck ...

---

### Post by OpenTangent on 2011-06-22
I'd also like to know how to do this. As BirdZerk mentioned above, the installer doesn't allow us to get to the partitioning. I thought of creating a custom Ubuntu CD but i would imagine that it would still do the disk space check. I really don't need things like Libre Office etc.

---

### Post by JRV on 2011-06-22
Try the alternate install CD
Manual partitioning
/home on SDHC
/ on the 4 gig SSD
Do not use a swap, it causes too many write cycles.

---

