---
title: "Strange menubar only in openoffice"
date: 2009-03-19
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ctholm on 2009-03-19
Hi there

I am running Ubuntu 8.10 on my machine and it is great.

I have a problem in openoffice though, that I do not know how to describe. I have attached a picture showing standard texteditor, and the option page format window. When I move the mouse over menues, some of them show their caption for a split second and others just stay hidden.

I suspect this is an option in xorg.conf, as I have been wrestling alot with that to get resolution set, so here is the contend of xorg.conf.

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
#Section "Monitor"
#    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
#    ModeLine       "1280x1024_60.00" 108.88 1280 1360 1496 1712 1024 1025 #1028 1060 -hsync +vsync
#    Option         "PreferredMode" "1280x1024_60.00"
#EndSection
#Section "Device"
#    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
#    Driver         "nvidia"
#    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
#EndSection
#Section "Screen"
#    Identifier     "Default Screen"
#    Device         "Configured Video Device"
#    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
#    DefaultDepth    24
#    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
#    SubSection     "Display"
#        Depth       24
#        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "640x480"
#    EndSubSection
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
#    Modeline "1280x1024_60.00"  108.88  1280 1360 1496 1712  1024 1025 1028 1060  -HSync +Vsync
#    Option         "PreferredMode" "1280x1024_60.00"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 MX Integrated GPU"
	Option "AddARGBVisuals" "True"

A lot of lines are # out, but I included them in case it was obvious, that they should be included.

Thank you for any and all assistance!

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-03-19
[http://ppa.launchpad.net/openoffice-pkgs/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/openoffice-pkgs/ubuntu)

a developer for open office 3 version has set up on launchpad the install 
I am using this and it is working fine.

To try this open your software sources list and add this line.
close it and it will update the software list and should then show an update.
It wont have an authentication key

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-03-19
are you running compiz? if you turn it off that might fix things

I know of a similar issue, and to fix it all you need to do is change your computer's theme

---

### Post by ctholm on 2009-03-20
I tried changing the theme, but that did not make a difference. I do not think it is related to Compiz, as it seems that makes a general titlebar error. Mine is only in openoffice - everything else looks normal. 

The uploaded distro seems like it would be the answer, but could someone give me a little push? When I look at the libraries, I am not quite sure, what I am looking at - Is there a line I should write in the terminal with a link to a specific file, or something like that? If so, would anyone be so kind as to spell it out for me.

Thankfully
Christian

---

