---
title: "Can't get widescreen resolution"
date: 2008-11-20
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Raine1979 on 2008-11-20
Hello, I'm an ubuntu newbie.  I've been using it for about a week and am very impressed.  Unfortunately, I have one problem.  I cannot get my resolution correct.  I am using an nVidia GeForce 6100.  This allows me to get a resolution of 1680x1050 on windows xp.  The highest I can get in ubuntu is 1152x864.

I've gone through previous posts and tried everything, I can't get ubuntu to recognize 1680x1050.  Thanks for any help, here's my xorg.conf file:




# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed Oct  1 15:09:35 PDT 2008
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6100"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1152x864 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by jimmy the saint on 2008-11-20
If you are using the restricted driver, open a terminal and typ
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

set the screen size from within the nvidia control panel.  make sure to save the changes to xorg.conf before you close the control panel

---

### Post by Raine1979 on 2008-11-20
Thanks for the response!  I gave that a try, but it only allows me to go as high as 1360 x 768 (which looks bad on my screen lol).  Do I need to do any editting to the xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by Raine1979 on 2008-11-20
I've also just tried envyng with no luck.  It recommended an older driver which made the resolution worse :(

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-20
This my xorg.conf, a clean install then enabled nvidia driver 177. Did you modify yours before trying to get the resolution sorted?
I've got the native res for my monitor of 1680x1050. As you can see xorg is very sparse these days.

```
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Raine1979 on 2008-11-20
I did make some modifications, but removed them because they didn't work lol.  The only modifications I kept were the ones that nvidia-settings wrote to it.  But initially after a clean install, my xorg.conf did look like the one you posted.

---

### Post by Raine1979 on 2008-11-20
also, I do have nvidia driver 177 enabled

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-20
You've obviously checked in system>prefs >screen resolution.

I seem to remember having to set it there for it to take effect. Memory fading, beer o'clock coming up time.
The max res for that card is 2048x1536@85 Hz so something not right.

---

### Post by Raine1979 on 2008-11-20
lol i sure have checked there.  is there anything special i need to add to xorg.conf?  Something's definately not right lol

---

### Post by fooman on 2008-11-20
what monitor (size/make) are you trying to configure?  ...do you also have a crt monitor hooked up?

---

### Post by Raine1979 on 2008-11-20
this is my monitor here:
[http://www.viewsonic.com/products/desktop-monitors/lcd/value-series/va2626wm.htm?](http://www.viewsonic.com/products/desktop-monitors/lcd/value-series/va2626wm.htm?)

---

### Post by fooman on 2008-11-20
what about the crt that is listed in your xorg?

it looks like you have ,  or had at one time...2 monitors configured.

---

### Post by Raine1979 on 2008-11-20
my monitor is actually connected to a 4-port kvm switch.  would that have an effect?

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-20
Plug it into the main graphics card connector.

---

### Post by fooman on 2008-11-20
> **philinux said:**
> Plug it into the main graphics card connector.

yeah,  and maybe turn off "twinview"

---

### Post by Raine1979 on 2008-11-20
unfortunately i'm at work... so i can't do that right now.  But thank you, i think i know where my problem lies :)

---

