---
title: "Graphics Card problems"
date: 2009-02-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Lake50 on 2009-02-26
I am new to Ubuntu and i am having problems with my graphics card a Nvidia fx5700.

After playing around I managed to install Envy, and after a bit more the UI so I could use it. Sure is a steep learning curve!

Anyway when I use the recommended driver 173.14.1 [the recommended one] or 96.43.09 I only get 640x480 max. 71.86.04 is currently in use which gives me 800x600 max [as does the default setting when Ubuntu has a problem on start-up]. I would like a more reasonable resolution on my 19" CRT though and to see some of the desktop effects.

Is the problem caused by Ubuntu not recognising the screen resolution of the monitor itself?

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-02-26
Hi,
what version of Ubuntu are you using?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-26
You don't have the graphics driver installed properly, you should be able to get the maximum resolution your moitor can handle. Could you open an Applications-->Accessories-->terminal nad type:

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

and  paste the output in your next post.

Jim

---

### Post by Lake50 on 2009-02-26
I am using Ubuntu 8.10

rozendaal@rozendaal-lounge:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
rozendaal@rozendaal-lounge:~$

---

### Post by Lake50 on 2009-02-26
I also noticed today that at start-up Ubuntu has a "fail" for loading the video driver

---

### Post by Lake50 on 2009-03-01
I found out that the problem is related to my monitor. xorg.conf does not recognise my old CRT 19", there have been fixes on [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1031885&highlight=set+resolution+monitor&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1031885&highlight=set+resolution+monitor&page=2)
However I have not managed to fix the issue on my machine yet.

---

### Post by Lake50 on 2009-03-03
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122695](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122695) 

This is the answer for the problem. Just make sure the scan settings are correct for the monitor before restarting the pc or you may have problems seeing the screen.

---

