---
title: "9.04 crashing on old laptop"
date: 2009-08-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by mr-woof on 2009-08-31
Evening all,

I've got an old laptop I use, 1.5 celeron, 512mb ram, 40gb hd. I've had a couple of linux distro's installed, all have been fine (pclinux, ubuntu 8.04/8.10, mint 6/7 etc) 

I've installed 9.04 and it crashes quite frequently. I can move the mouse but nothing else will respond. 

How can I diagnose the problem? Anyone else had any problems with 9.04?

---

### Post by ashwinhgtx on 2009-08-31
Mint 7 is based on 9.04. If Mint 7 works then 9.04 should be fine.
Which application crashes the most? Firefox with Flash?

---

### Post by mr-woof on 2009-08-31
It can be firefox, while watching bbc i player. Today it's been the vlc player as i've been watching a dvd

---

### Post by davidsrsb on 2009-08-31
Have you run the boot screen memory test? You could have a fault.

Otherwise is this an old Intel graphics chip, the Intel regressions have caused many problems

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-08-31
how big is your swap partition?

do you ever use 'free -m' to keep an eye on memmory usage?

---

### Post by mr-woof on 2009-08-31
I can't see it being a memory fault, it would of appeared when i've been using the other distro's. 

Not sure how big the swap partition is to be honest, I just left everything as default when it was installed. 

I might try that command, I usually use conky but the last time I tried it didn't like 9.04. It wouldn't run at startup

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-08-31
Boot up and run 

```
top
```

from a terminal to see whats using cpu.

---

### Post by mr-woof on 2009-09-01
firefox and xorg are top, using hardly anything between them

What log files would I need to be looking at?

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-09-01
System>admin>log file viewer. Messages dmesg and xorg.

Until problem identified.
When the system locks up try Alt+PrintScreen+k. This will take you back to the login screen. Failing that rather then the power button use this.
[http://lifehacker.com/298891/gently-restart-a-frozen-system](http://lifehacker.com/298891/gently-restart-a-frozen-system)

---

### Post by matsuzine on 2009-09-01
I had trouble with 9.04 freezing on an old toshiba, but kernel updates seem to have fixed the issue.  FYI.

---

### Post by mr-woof on 2009-09-01
is there any specific way to do the kernel updates? I've done all the updates via the update manager

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2009-09-01
It sounds like lack of memory to me.

How big is your swap? Run gparted to find out: System > Administration > Partition Editor. I suspect that you'll need 1Gb for a 512Kb RAM machine.

You can track your memory use with the system monitor: System > Administration > System Monitor. One of the tabs at the top gives a graphic display.

The Update Manager will give you all the required kernel updates. When you boot, check that you're booting from the latest kernel.

---

### Post by mr-woof on 2009-09-01
the swap file is 1.39gb, what's the best way to increase it?

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2009-09-01
> **mr-woof said:**
> the swap file is 1.39gb, what's the best way to increase it?
1.39Gb is more than sufficient, so I must be wrong.

As it's an old computer, I can only guess -- but it is a guess -- that there's some hardware incompatibility.

Perhaps someone with better knowledge of that can help.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-09-01
If it's crashing ONLY while you're watching videos, it's most likely a video-driver related problem.  I didn't catch what video chip/card you're using.  Please post that.

---

### Post by mr-woof on 2009-09-01
According to the output of lshw -html hardware.html, it's a 82852/855gm integrated graphics devices from intel.

In visual effects, i've got it set to normal as I'm using the Awn manager

---

### Post by ashwinhgtx on 2009-09-01
> **mr-woof said:**
> According to the output of lshw -html hardware.html, it's a 82852/855gm integrated graphics devices from intel.

In visual effects, i've got it set to normal as I'm using the Awn manager

Try turning off Visual Effects and see if it changes anything.

---

### Post by LewRockwell on 2009-09-01
> **ashwinhgtx said:**
> Try turning off Visual Effects and see if it changes anything.

+ 1

honestly, we always go through systems and turn off all the crap that is part of the reason for the existence of BLOAT

not to mention the problems that are solved/never-experienced...without that extra bloat mucking things up

.

---

