---
title: "NTFS-3g question"
date: 2008-06-18
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by TechDragon on 2008-06-18
Trying to get an usb external NTFS formatted harddrive to work with ubuntu.  I have installed and ran the ntfs-3g config tool and checked both boxes my FSTAB:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=8ddec790-10e7-4f9e-bb11-df19ed0ea011 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=3563726e-64e1-4533-8611-a1d5819e45f4 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /mnt/Windows_c ntfs-3g rw,defaults 0 0
```

IBM T61 laptop.


No error codes... 
Hard drive blinks for awhile and then it just gives up looking
Any advice?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2008-06-18
> **TechDragon said:**
> 
/dev/sdb1 /mnt/Windows_c ntfs-3g rw,defaults 0 0[/CODE]


Shouldn't that be

```
/dev/sdb1 /mnt/Windows_c [COLOR="Red"]ntfs[/COLOR] rw,defaults 0 0
```

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2008-06-18
I've seen that before and it didn't make any sense to me either, also make sure the folder is there for it to mount to.

```
ls /mnt
```

---

### Post by Hospadar on 2008-06-18
While you're at it, you may want to mount that drive by UUID instead of device name, in case you ever have the desire to move it around or copy about your partitions.
[http://www.unixtutorial.org/2008/05/ubuntu-uuid-how-to/](http://www.unixtutorial.org/2008/05/ubuntu-uuid-how-to/)

---

### Post by Victormd on 2008-06-18
> **TechDragon said:**
> Trying to get an usb external NTFS formatted harddrive to work with ubuntu.  I have installed and ran the ntfs-3g config tool and checked both boxes my FSTAB:

No error codes... 
Hard drive blinks for awhile and then it just gives up looking
Any advice?

Can you use this with windows on this laptop? It sounds like it's more of a hardware issue where your USB is not able to output the required voltage for the external HD to function properly. This has happened to me because I had too many USB devices connected.

The reason I'm suggesting this is because hardy doesn't need ntfs-3g or any other ntfs package installed to mount a NTFS formatted drive, this is done automatically.

---

### Post by TechDragon on 2008-06-18
I am an IT Director for an insurance company and I have to view data on literally hundreds of these things.  None of them work, with Hardy, they do work on OpenSuse 11 rc1, so I know Linux can do it, I even managed to confuse 7.10 into doing it but in 8.04 I am getting no love.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-06-18
This is the output of /etc/mtab when I mount an ntfs drive, perhaps it will help.

```
/dev/sdc1 /media/half_of fuseblk rw,nosuid,nodev,noatime,allow_other,blksize=4096 0 0
```

This is an eSATA drive, but a usb drive would be similar.

Also check **dmesg** as it will give you an idea as to what device it is eg: /dev/sda1

Jim

---

