---
title: "9.04 Kernel"
date: 2009-07-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Don1500 on 2009-07-01
I know this is a dumb question but what is the std kernel for 9.04?

I'm showing 2.6.27.14-generic, but I have the same for 8.10.

---

### Post by nhasian on 2009-07-01
in a terminal type:

```
apt-cache policy linux-generic
```

this will show you what linux kernel you currently have installed, and what is recommended from the repositories.

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2009-07-02
Thanks, that answered my question, but it opened another can of worms. 
I updated 8.10 to 9.04 with the Update manager. Everything worked fine except menu.lst was not changed. It still called out ONLY 8.10. It would boot correctly (9.04) and 8.10 was gone. But Grub still only called out 8.10.

I changed all instances of 8.10 in menu.lst to 9.04, all worked well. After getting this message I changed the kernel to the one called out and boom goes the dinamite, full crash, won't boot. Being smart I had made a copy of the original menu.lst so I swaped it out and got everything back. 

How do I update Menu.lst to show what I really have and not what it wants to show?

(out put for "apt-cache policy linux-generic"):
```
linux-generic:
  Installed: 2.6.28.13.17
  Candidate: 2.6.28.13.17
  Version table:
 *** 2.6.28.13.17 0
        500 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com jaunty-updates/restricted Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
     2.6.28.11.15 0
        500 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com jaunty/restricted Packages

```

---

### Post by nhasian on 2009-07-03
before making any changes to grub, make sure to back it up with the command:

```
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.bak
```

then you can edit the menu with the command:

```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

Does this resolve your problem?

---

### Post by Miljet on 2009-07-03
If I understand you correctly, you can't just change the kernel number in the menu.lst file and expect it to work. The kernel has to be installed first. You can see what kernels are installed by:
```
ls /boot
```

You can install available kernels using Synaptic. Search for "linux-image*.

I have no idea why the grub menu didn't change to 9.04 when you upgraded. But it is safe to change anything in the "title" lines in your menu.lst.

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2009-07-04
Whatever, There was an update yesterday that modified the menu.lst, this set me up ok, and everything works, so I ain't gonna mess with it.

Thanks for the help.

---

