---
title: "9.10 Grub unable to load Windows XP"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by agoodliffe on 2009-11-02
Hey there,
I just upgraded to Xubuntu 9.10 and I still have my Windows XP on a different partition. 
a friend of mine had done the original installation and this is the first time I am on my own to upgrade.

Now I have installed Xubuntu 9.10 and when I get to the Grub screen (version 1.97beta) it shows the usual different installations to boot like before in the Ubuntu I had.

[I]Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic
Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic
(recovery mode)
Memory test (memtest86+)
Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200
Windows NT/2000/XP (on /dev/sda1)
[/I][/I]

When I select Windows it goes to a blank screen and hangs there indefinitely with GRUB typed in the top left corner.

I think I made a mistake in the manual installation of my Xubuntu. I only deleted the previous Ubutnu partition and created a new one without touching the other partitions. I installed Xubuntu 9.10 on the /dev/sda3 partition. I also have a common 60GB FAT32 drive to save all my stuff.

I would really like to get into my Windows XP and start from scratch once again. 

Does anyone know how I can get back into my Windows XP and secondly how to properly install XUbuntu 9.10 while having access to WIndows XP like before?

Here is my partition set-up which someone recommended I paste here.

Thanks for the help and I am really an overenthused newbie for jumping straight into the Linux deep end.

adrian@adrian-laptop:~$ sudo fdisk -l
[sudo] password for adrian: 

[HTML]Disk /dev/sda: 100.0 GB, 100030242816 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 12161 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xf1d6f1d6

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        1912    15358108+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            3129       11061    63721822+   c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda3            1913        3128     9767520   83  Linux
/dev/sda4           11813       12161     2803342+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order
adrian@adrian-laptop:~$ ^C
adrian@adrian-laptop:~$[/HTML]

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-11-02
Have you tried:

```
sudo update-grub2
```

---

### Post by agoodliffe on 2009-11-02
Yeah just tried and nothing changed. GRUB Still hangs there when I select Windows XP

---

### Post by agoodliffe on 2009-11-04
I finally solved it by booting a WIndows XP CD and rebuilding the boot.ini
C: bootcfg /rebuild
found this french speaking help page 
[http://www.commentcamarche.net/faq/sujet-20433-reconstruire-le-boot-ini-en-cas-d-absence](http://www.commentcamarche.net/faq/sujet-20433-reconstruire-le-boot-ini-en-cas-d-absence)

Finally able to boot into Windows XP.
Thanks for the help though and now I can dual boot and enjoy Xubuntu 9.10 and Windows XP

---

