---
title: "basic question on shell script"
date: 2010-07-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by gaurish108 on 2010-07-26
I want to install a software called Gadget-2 which uses the FFTW-2.1.5 library. The following are the instructions on the installation page of Gadget-2 relevant to FFTW.

FFTW - the Fastest Fourier Transform in the West. This open-source package can be obtained at [http://www.fftw.org](http://www.fftw.org) . It is only needed for simulations that use the TreePM algorithm. Note that the MPI-capable version 2.x of FFTW is required, and that FFTW needs to be explicitly compiled with parallel support enabled. **This can be achieved by passing the option --enable-mpi to the configure script. When at it, you might as well add --enable-type-prefix to obtain the libraries in both a single and double precision version.** If this has not been done, you should set the option NOTYPEPREFIX_FFTW in GADGET's Makefile.

What I wanted to know was what do you mean by passing an option to a script such as configure. do I have to edit the configure script for this or should I add some commands from the terminal?

---

### Post by RiceMonster on 2010-07-26
just add the flags to the command when you type when you run the script.

```
./configure --enable-mpi --enable-type-prefix
```

---

### Post by mbsullivan on 2010-07-26
Your post had too many words for me to read right now, and it looks like somebody answered it anyway. I just wanted to chime in the unwanted tidbit that FFTW is made of C code autogenerated by an OCAML program -- it's one of the most successful and widely used functional programs out there. Pretty cool!

Mike

---

