---
title: ".exe/.zip not working"
date: 2010-12-02
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ltweazel on 2010-12-02
I am new to Ubuntu and Linux, and I'm having a problem with installing software. When I double click on a .exe or .zip file i get this:

Archive:  /home/weazel/Downloads/avg_free_stb_all_2011_1170_cnet.exe
[/home/weazel/Downloads/avg_free_stb_all_2011_1170_cnet.exe]
  End-of-central-directory signature not found.  Either this file is not
  a zipfile, or it constitutes one disk of a multi-part archive.  In the
  latter case the central directory and zipfile comment will be found on
  the last disk(s) of this archive.
zipinfo:  cannot find zipfile directory in one of /home/weazel/Downloads/avg_free_stb_all_2011_1170_cnet.exe or
          /home/weazel/Downloads/avg_free_stb_all_2011_1170_cnet.exe.zip, and cannot find /home/weazel/Downloads/avg_free_stb_all_2011_1170_cnet.exe.ZIP, period.

This is from only 1 thing i tried to install, but i get it with everything. Any ideas will help.

---

### Post by MooPi on 2010-12-02
Linux and Windows executables don't work together. You'll need third party applications to use. Try to use native Linux applications and you'll find Ubuntu much friendlier and easier to accomplish tasks.

---

### Post by AngusH on 2010-12-02
Hey, ubuntu and windows install things in very different ways. .exe is a windows installer file, and if you want to install it your going to have to use a compatibility layer like wine, and it will never be perfect on windows.
You need to learn to install files on ubuntu. Look in the software center or the synaptic package manager (a bit more advanced). This will give you a good idea of how it works [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware)

NB That goes into how to install .deb files as well, which are fine but generally it's worth trying to find the software in the software center.

---

### Post by Verbeck on 2010-12-02
.exe's are windows executables. they don't run on linux natively

almost every thing you might need will be in the software center

wine *could* run some windows executables, but theres very little sense in running a windows antivirus in wine...

---

### Post by Zookalicious on 2010-12-02
Hi ltweasel. Ubuntu and Linux in general does not use .exe files as those are Windows program files. Try browsing the Software Center for your applications or downloading the Linux version of your application instead if there is one. If the program you want to use does not have an official Linux version, try searching google for a good similar program that runs on Linux, there's usually lots!

(For example; instead of Microsoft Office, try Openoffice, or even online Google Docs)

As for the .zip files, try right clicking on the .zip and selecting "open with archive manager". If that option is not there, select "open with other application" and then select "archive manager". 

Also welcome to Linux! I hope you enjoy yourself :)

EDIT: 4 people posted in the same minute :P

---

### Post by ltweazel on 2010-12-02
Yup I got alot to learn with linux lol.  I'll try those options and see what i get. So far i like alot of what I've seen just running into differences lol

---

### Post by skymera on 2010-12-02
You should be able to open Zip files with Archive Manager which is preinstalled. Just right click and choose "Extract here"

Windows installers such as .exe and .msi etc can't be used on Linux. Try to use alternative software. Google for ask here for help, alternatively look in the Ubuntu Software Centre, it's pretty helpful.

You'll find it under Applications > Ubuntu Software Centre.

---

