---
title: "10.04 hangs during the install?!?!?!?!"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by tsp_2177 on 2010-05-01
So i just downloaded the boot disk the other night and installled it on my older laptop. Everything was fine and dandy with my old laptop except for it taking a while (which it always does). well now i'm trying to do a clean install over the windows and everything on my desktop and it is acting really funny. it has a blank screen where the monitor goes off before all the install stuff comes on and then it will either hang at 63% or 78% install... does anyone know why it's doing this? i left it on all night last night to try and install and i came back ready to set up mythtv this morning and nothing? it was still stuck on 78%?!?!?! thanks for the help in advanced.

---

### Post by The Thunder Chimp on 2010-05-01
Perhaps you don't meet the specs? Have you tried checking if your computer matches the expected specs?

---

### Post by PepinYaco on 2010-05-01
> **tsp_2177 said:**
> So i just downloaded the boot disk the other night and installled it on my older laptop. Everything was fine and dandy with my old laptop except for it taking a while (which it always does). well now i'm trying to do a clean install over the windows and everything on my desktop and it is acting really funny. it has a blank screen where the monitor goes off before all the install stuff comes on and then it will either hang at 63% or 78% install... does anyone know why it's doing this? i left it on all night last night to try and install and i came back ready to set up mythtv this morning and nothing? it was still stuck on 78%?!?!?! thanks for the help in advanced.

well im no expert, as a matter of a fact, i a noob ur i have had this problem, the very first times i installed it getn find but then it started hanging at 57% still don't know why, the only thing i was getting was to try burning the iso a slower speed, u can try that.

---

### Post by tsp_2177 on 2010-05-02
> **The Thunder Chimp said:**
> Perhaps you don't meet the specs? Have you tried checking if your computer matches the expected specs?
thanks for the reply but the computer more than well meets the specs if my old ancient laptop will lol it's a Pentium4HT with 2 gigs of ram a decent video card and 500gb hard drive shouldn't have any problems at all running it. i decided i'm going to re install 9.10 like i had before and installed perfectly fine then upgrade it through the upgrade manager while i sleep tonight and hope that that works out right. i think i'm out of CD's or i would try and redownload and burn at a slower speed. it just confuses me on how it would install perfectly fine on a 8 year old laptop that just has a celeron processor and 512mb of ram, but hangs on this one. same CD and everyhthing?

---

### Post by terminator2119 on 2010-05-02
Same problem, monitor goes to sleep and nothing happens. Activity light goes off on the CD drive when it the monitor goes to sleep after maybe a minute into the install, haven't seen the install page, just the loading bubbles. 

Rig specs: AMD Phenom x3 II 720 BE 
           6GB DDR2 RAM
           1tb install drive, storage 500gb, 120gb. 
           HP 1920x1080 25" LCD
           MSI Radeon HD 5770

Maybe it's a driver issue for the monitor? or maybe it's trying to display at a different resolution... I have no idea. Maybe it's best to wait for 10.10 lol, but i really need this on my desktop... Windows corrupted itself.

I'M installing using Alternative Text Based Installer, it seems to be working.

Same problem even with alternative text based. Although I did manage to login without having the monitor on, which is weird... But it leads me to believe theres an issue with the monitor driver or graphics card driver that it loads during startup.

Anyone have any ideas how to fix this. Unplugging the monitor doesn't help. I can access recovery mode, but I don't know any commands..... Such as how to install graphics drivers for ATi through command line.

OK fixed, if you can't login because monitor's black, just do recovery mode and safe mode low graphics, and install the proprietary drivers. :)

---

