---
title: "low res with low refresh"
date: 2008-09-26
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DarinB on 2008-09-26
i get low res with low refresh rate the low res graphic driver box opens to manually add the driver i add the generic geforce 4 and it seems to work at 600x800 but thats it. this is my etc/x11/xorg.comf, any help????

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"y"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"y"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"y"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce4 (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce4 (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by I Use Dial on 2008-09-26
Is that the open source driver or Nvidia's driver?  - nevermind.  In a board I use for setting up my MythTV there were a bunch of people complaining about the 1atest Nvidia drivers (173.something) and they ended up reverting to 169.  Not sure if this is the issue they were having.

---

### Post by AnxietyDrive on 2008-09-26
Having gone through a similar situation just recently, though I'm by no means an 'expert', I solved my situation by editing the xorg.conf file to include the resolutions that I knew both the card (an old voodoo3 pci) and the monitor supported.
With the right driver and that it now works fine!

Also you may want to look at trying this application EnvyNG, an ATI Navidia driver installer!

---

### Post by DarinB on 2008-09-26
i tried both fo the last two ideas didn't work i wonder if i copy the xorg conf from a live cd then use that?????

---

