---
title: "10.04 LTS: Wired connection stopped working for no apparent reason"
date: 2011-06-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by frogo on 2011-06-24
Hi, 

The internet wire connection on my desktop machine running 10.04 has stopped working. I have not used the machine for a while, but last I did, for all I remember, it was working. I think the last thing I installed there was tomcat, but it didn't break anything at the time. 

I've tried disabling/re-enabling the connection many times, which usually is enough when the connection is not detected right away on my laptop. 

I don't know what to do. How can I go about trouble shooting this? 

thanks

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-06-24
post the output of ifconfig

---

### Post by frogo on 2011-06-27
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> post the output of ifconfig

sorry to follow up now... moreover i don't have the output at end. I tried ifconfig the other day and eth0 seemed to be up although there was a small number associated with packets and there seemed to be no ip address other than a local host, i think. These seemed the only differences with running ifconfig on my laptop  

i can try getting more specific info but will have to juggle between machine when time permits

---

### Post by _0R10N on 2011-06-27
What's the output of executing

```
/etc/init.d/networking restart
``` as root?

---

### Post by frogo on 2011-06-28
> **_0R10N said:**
> What's the output of executing

```
/etc/init.d/networking restart
``` as root?

1. Re. this... It says:

* Reconfiguring network interfaces... [OK]

But the wired network remains disconnected 

2. Regarding ifconfig from previous post:

there is no inet addr: entry for eth0. Reads something like (I'm typing this):

eth0
Link encap:Ethernet Hwaddr <some:string>
inet6 addr: <some:other:string>
UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
RX packets:80 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:25 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
RX bytes:10200 (10.2 KB) TX bytes:6966 (6.9 KB)
Interrupt:23 Base address:0xce00


I was wrong re. local host showing it is in fact showing in connection to lo

---

### Post by Dondermans on 2011-06-28
A similar phenomenon happens on my system from time to time (when I used 10.04 and with 10.10, which I currently use).

The behaviour is too erratic to be able to file a bug report, but more often than not the connection will work again if you switch the computer off and kill the power completely and switch it back on after about 20 seconds. I use a connector box with a red kill switch, as shown below:

[[IMG]http://i133.photobucket.com/albums/q41/Don82/th_Stekkerdoos.png[/IMG]]("http://s133.photobucket.com/albums/q41/Don82/?action=view&current=Stekkerdoos.png")

PS: If you use an external HDD, it is imperative that it is not actively reading or writing when you kill the power.

---

### Post by frogo on 2011-06-28
> **Dondermans said:**
> A similar phenomenon happens on my system from time to time (when I used 10.04 and with 10.10, which I currently use).

The behaviour is too erratic to be able to file a bug report, but more often than not the connection will work again if you switch the computer off and kill the power completely and switch it back on after about 20 seconds. I use a connector box with a red kill switch, as shown below:

[[IMG]http://i133.photobucket.com/albums/q41/Don82/th_Stekkerdoos.png[/IMG]]("http://s133.photobucket.com/albums/q41/Don82/?action=view&current=Stekkerdoos.png")

PS: If you use an external HDD, it is imperative that it is not actively reading or writing when you kill the power.

I turned on and off many times that machine, sometimes for long periods... But this makes me think that perhaps I should at least try booting into an older kernel from the grub menu, which I haven't tried yet. 

EDIT: well I tried booting from the older kernel (2.6.32-21) and it's no better than the other one (*-24). 

Unrelated: In passing, in 10.10 on my laptop (not the machine in question here), sometimes the connection dies, but then it is enough to disable/enable networking from the gnome panel thingy. That seems closer to what affects you.

---

