---
title: "12.04 Printer no longer connecting"
date: 2013-01-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Jamface on 2013-01-31
I'm running 12.04. My HP Deskjet 3070 printer worked on my Lenovo Z570 laptop until today, but now I'm getting an error message that tells me the printer may not be connected.  I have installed all updates offered. The printer works with my desktop machine using the same URI.  I have tried uninstalling and reinstalling the CUPS printer configuration tool and status applet, then the printer but to no avail.  I read that if I go to the CUPS admin page and click on Resume Printers this might solve the problem.  How do I get to the CUPS admin page?  I can't find any way to it via System Settings or its Printer applet. Do you think Resume Printers would solve the problem?  If not what else might?
Bill

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-01-31
CUPS admin is access by opening a Browser and entering: "localhost:631"  without the quotes.

---

### Post by Jamface on 2013-01-31
Many thanks, Mark.  

I could not find Resume Printers on the CUPS Admin pages so I tried the following from the terminal:
lpstat -a
sudo lpadmin -E -p printer_name
lpstat -p

That gave me /sr/lib/cups/backend/hp failed as before.

Does the CUPS Resume Printers do the same as I have done at the terminal?

What could I try now?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-01-31
> **Jamface said:**
> What could I try now?

I've been using CUPS to install and administer local and networked printers for years (mostly Epsons and HPs) and never had it fail on me.

I have heard that some folks have better luck installing and using HPLIP.

---

### Post by Jamface on 2013-02-01
Problem solved.

It worked when I put in the printer IP address rather than the URI into the printer aplet.
Many thanks for your help.
Bill

---

