---
title: "14.04 shutdown problem"
date: 2014-05-14
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GrouchyGaijin on 2014-05-14
Hi Guys,

I have a Dell Inspiron 1520 and am running Ubuntu 14.04.
The problem just began this morning when I tried to reboot the machine.  Yesterday things worked as they should.
When I try to shutdown or reboot from the menu in the upper right corner of the screen nothing seems to happen.
The same when I try to logoff.

If I enter:
```
sudo shutdown now
```
in a terminal the system tries to shut down but ends up going to a command prompt labeled root.

Pressing the alt key and typing shutdown or logoff does nothing - those options do not appear.

If however I physically press the power button on the machine, the menu with the options of locking, logging off, shutting down or restarting appears and I can do any of those options.

I've uninstalled anything I can think of that I installed that might be related to this problem.
I've tried going back to the nouvou driver instead of the Nvidia driver.
I removed xscreensaver.
I tried disabling Rainlendar (Desktop calendar program).
Nothing seems to help.

I did noticed that last time I booted the machine that very briefly a message flashed saying that there was a problem with ACL.
I couldn't read it because it disappeared so quickly.

Has anyone else had this happen or have a clue as to how to fix the problem.
I would be really grateful for some help.

[U][B][COLOR=#ff0000]UPDATE

[/COLOR][/B][COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR][/U][COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR]I searched around a bit and saw that this issue affects many people.  That always makes me feel good.  It's not just *schadenfredue* but it means I didn't screw anything up in a goofball way. :)

The upshot is that one person wrote that when they removed Cairo dock the problem stopped.  I had plank installed so I killed plank and miraculously I was once again able to shut down, logoff etc. from the shutdown menu.
If the problem remains solved after a few more reboots I'll mark the thread as "Solved".

If that is the problem though it is kind of a drag since I really like plank.

---

