---
title: "12.10 Fresh install. Dual Boot. Very poor performance"
date: 2012-10-31
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-10-31
Hi all,

I'm a noob.

I have just installed Ubuntu 12.10 (my first /real/ attempt to use Linux) and the performance is very poor.

PC: Quadcore, 8gb RAM (DDR3-1333), 1gb gfx, 120gb SSD (Win7 NTFS), 60gb SSD (Linux ext4), 500gb HDD (Data NTFS).

I chose no swap partition/file because blogs etc say it's not needed for more than, say, 4gb RAM (some say less).

The only software i've installed so far (apart from Ubuntu updates) is Opera.

As an example, it takes about 3 seconds to open the Software Centre. It takes about 2 seconds to open the Ubuntu Launcher. Closing programs is very slow too. I have installed Ubuntu as an experiment on poorer hardware (briefly) and it performed much better than this.

Looking at the System Monitor, my CPU is usually hanging around 2-8% on each of the cores. Memory and swap history is really stable at about 1.5gb of 7.8 gb (18.7%).

Where do i start?

Thanks all.

---

### Post by shreepads on 2012-10-31
Can you try with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS instead, and install it completely on the 60GB SSD...

Do you have any partitions accessible to Ubuntu on the HDD?

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-10-31
Sounds like a nice machine.  I don't think you told us anything about your graphics card or drivers, though, and that could easily be the culprit.

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-10-31
> **shreepads said:**
> Can you try with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS instead, and install it completely on the 60GB SSD...


I can, but i'd like to try a few things here first :)

> **shreepads said:**
> Do you have any partitions accessible to Ubuntu on the HDD?

On the HDD that Ubuntu is installed, it's only one partition - all Ubuntu. I believe gparted would help me find out for sure, but it's not listed :S Is there a tool already in Ubuntu (or command line) to show you everything?

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-10-31
> **newb85 said:**
> Sounds like a nice machine.  I don't think you told us anything about your graphics card or drivers, though, and that could easily be the culprit.

Thanks, it's a couple of years old now, but works nicely :)

You're right, it does 'feel' like it's the gfx drivers (like Win7 before i installed the AMD drivers). It's a Radeon 5850 (AMD/Asus)

I looked around and found "Software Sources" tool where it offers proprietary drivers from "fglrx (proprietary)" or "fglrx-updates (proprietary)". Currently it's using the x.org drivers.

What's the difference (ie, which should i choose) and what does fglrx mean?

---

### Post by ArminasAnarchy on 2012-10-31
Installing new graphics card drivers can really help - my laptop was previously just about unusable with the default AMD/ATI drivers.

I'm by no means an expert, but flgrx (or whatever it is) drivers are proprietary ones provided by AMD. Ubuntu developers can't access the source-code for them, and/or refine them. Some people might have a problem with this, but tbh, I think most users are just happiest with whatever works, and for me certainly (and hopefully you too) that'll be the AMD drivers.

A guide I find really helpful (and have followed for two machines, soon to be three) can be accessed here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

I really recommend ignoring the GUI "Additional drivers" too, and just skipping straight to the command line method. The more you use Ubuntu, you'll learn that commands via the terminal are so often more stream lined and easily automated.

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-10-31
OK, great.

Before reading your post i installed:  "fglrx-updates (proprietary)". And now my main monitor won't work. When i try to change the resolution etc to try to get it to work, it errors out with something about a resolution error and then a gnomeish error (i'm on a different machine right now, i shut it down in frustration and it's getting late). But both screens show up at the login screen, though the main one is the wrong resolution.

Unfortunately, i can't get the app launcher on the left monitor, so i can't open anything :(

The monitors are neither the same size, nor resolution.

Sigh :(

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-10-31
I have nVidia so I am not sure this is still current. But it seems you need the Catalyst Control Center.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/VideoDriverDetection](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/VideoDriverDetection)
Ubuntu Precise Installation Guide - AMD/ATI
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Precise_Installation_Guide#Video_Tearing](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Precise_Installation_Guide#Video_Tearing)
Add Hardware Graphics - ATI: After installing ATI Driver: From QIII
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2050320](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2050320)
#sudo aticonfig --initial -f
sudo aticonfig --adapter=all --initial
After reboot to get Catalyst Control Center
sudo apt-get install fglrx-amdcccle

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-10-31
I did some quick timing tests of 12.10 vs 12.04 on my PC, and 12.10 took about TWICE the time to open anything that 12.04 did.  So, 12.10 in general, is a poorer performer (on my PC) than are the previous Ubuntu versions.

That said, I have read on the Phoronix forums that a recent AMD 12.11 Beta version of their drivers is supposed to bring major performance improvements.

I can't veryify that because, once again, I have a video chipset that is over a year old and, like the last time, is now relegated to LEGACY status -- meaning, there are no Linux drivers from AMD for 12.10 for this chipset.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-10-31
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> ... once again, I have a video chipset that is over a year old and, like the last time, is now relegated to LEGACY status -- meaning, there are no Linux drivers from AMD for 12.10 for this chipset.

Whoa!  Are you saying AMD drops support of their chipsets after just one year?!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-10-31
While I am nVidia, I often buy older version (read cheap).

[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1210_amdstock&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1210_amdstock&num=1)
> On the proprietary driver side, the AMD Catalyst 12.11 Beta Linux graphics driver was used. For this initial testing, three discrete graphics cards from the AMD Radeon HD 5000/6000 series were used, since pre-HD5000 graphics cards are now on the Catalyst Legacy driver and the latest-generation Radeon HD 7000 series hardware still doesn't fully work with the open-source Gallium3D "RadeonSI" driver.


---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-10-31
I'm at work now, so can't experiment.

Is there a 'safe mode' similar to Windows in the GRUB? I recall some other Ubuntu mode in there, but have never loaded into it. I hope i can load into it without video drivers and revert the video somehow.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-10-31
Recovery mode gives some options.

You can also set boot parameters in the grub menu when you boot. They are one time settings, you can try generic or the radeon.modeset=0. That should force an older driver.

Some other settings:
[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)
* Older Intel video card: i915.modeset=1 or i915.modeset=0 newer:  i915.i915_enable_rc6=1
* nVidia: nomodeset
* Generic: xforcevesa or nouveau.modeset=0
* Radeon: radeon.modeset=0

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-11-01
Well, i tried for a bit, but i don't have a clue. I might have done it properly, i might not have - but it didn't work.

As i hadn't done much, i've decided to just rebuild from scratch. Stupid video drivers - clearly not designed for stupid people. :mad:

It seems odd that the video drivers are invoked after logging in. The login screen worked. It's not like i'm going to swap video cards at the login screen.

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-11-01
OK, this is interesting. I ran the installer again and just kept the defaults. This gave me a swap partition of 8gb. The system runs much more smoothly now - still not as snappy as i would have thought though. Certainly not good enough.

wth, i decided to go straight to installing the other AMD drivers available through the Software Sources.

Hey, it only took about 10mins to install Ubuntu so why not :)

Bizarre. Now when i fire up, i get the wallpaper, but that's it. Because the right monitor is using the wrong res. I can go in and try to fix it, but i get this when i try to set it to the proper res:
required virtual size does not fit available size: requested=(3200, 1080), minimum=(320.200), maximum=(1920, 1920).

So that didn't work. I'll start again and go back to the earlier post about all that manual stuff and Catalyst drivers etc. What fun...

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-11-01
> **newb85 said:**
> Whoa!  Are you saying AMD drops support of their chipsets after just one year?!

My card, 5850 is about 2 years old. I just looked at AMDs site and they have drivers, for Linux64 that are new. So i don't think that's right.

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-11-01
> **ArminasAnarchy said:**
> A guide I find really helpful (and have followed for two machines, soon to be three) can be accessed here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

I really recommend ignoring the GUI "Additional drivers" too, and just skipping straight to the command line method. The more you use Ubuntu, you'll learn that commands via the terminal are so often more stream lined and easily automated.

I'm trying to follow the instructions, but they are for 11.10 and 12.04, so i'm wary. What, for example, do i put for this?

sudo sh amd-driver-installer-12-6-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/precise[SIZE=2]
[/SIZE][FONT=Arial Narrow][SIZE=2]"Ubuntu/precise". What is 12.10? Does it matter what i [SIZE=2]put there?[/SIZE] (and what is with these stupid, non-memorable names?

[SIZE=2]EDIT: I figured it out.[/SIZE] I'm such a noob. But see, in Windows, if i go madly typing stuff - something is bound to break (if i don't know what i[SIZE=2]'m doing). So i'm [SIZE=2]pretty nervous about doing it here.[/SIZE][/SIZE]

I'm really trying to like Linux, but ugh.[/SIZE][/FONT]

Now the font has changed. :confused:

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-11-01
Well, i followed the instructions and it all seemed to work, rebooted and my monitor is aparently a 'Laptop'.

Dismail failure.

Aside from drivers being worse than the open source, why is it faster off USB than it is off SSD?

EDIT: I just installed Mint... no performance problems there.
2nd EDIT: Mint Cinnamon works fine with x.org gfx, when i install the AMD drivers the system can't run my two monitors at the proper resolutions, forcing me to run one or use poor res on one.

I might try 12.04 next. Sigh.

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-11-04
12.04 is much improved.

I haven't tried the AMD drivers, i'm not game.

To test it out, i'm going to give Diaspora a bash (i played it on my Windows and it was just so much fun!).

I found Mint had some display glitches, popups in the wrong place, windows opening on the wrong screen. Ubuntu just feels more polished.

I'll let you know how it fares.

---

### Post by DerekP on 2012-11-05
Been using Ubuntu for a bit and i get slowness when i'm using Firefox, sometimes i get spikes of CPU to ~100%.

Are there known issues with Ubuntu and excessive CPU usage?

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-11-05
The place to look for that is [https://launchpad.net/](https://launchpad.net/).

---

