---
title: "11.04 is starting to be annoying"
date: 2011-06-08
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-06-08
Everyday I am receiving from the Update Manager an Adobe Plug in to be installed. I uncheck it and a day or two later with other updates here it comes again. This is one of the main reasons I got rid of WindowsXP and now it is happening on Linux.

I do NOT want to install this  and want the annoying Update to cease. I will mistakenly install it at some point. How can I disable this particular piece of software. I want nothing Adobe on my system.

thanks

gumshoegrant

---

### Post by iansane on 2011-06-08
Could disable updates or disable updates that aren't security updates in the update manager

System>administration>update manager

[http://www.noob2geek.com/linux/how-to-disable-updates-in-ubuntu/](http://www.noob2geek.com/linux/how-to-disable-updates-in-ubuntu/)

You can also lock versions of packages in synaptic if you have a working version of some package and don't want to take a chance on breaking it by updating it

---

### Post by compmodder26 on 2011-06-08
Well if the update manager is trying get you to update the package, then it is indeed installed on your system.  Go into Synaptic and uninstall it.

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-06-08
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> Everyday I am receiving from the Update Manager an Adobe Plug in to be installed. I uncheck it and a day or two later with other updates here it comes again. This is one of the main reasons I got rid of WindowsXP and now it is happening on Linux.

I do NOT want to install this  and want the annoying Update to cease. I will mistakenly install it at some point. How can I disable this particular piece of software. I want nothing Adobe on my system.

thanks

gumshoegrant
which plugin? flash, reader or something else?
if you uninstall the plugin it wont appear on the update

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2011-06-08
If it's asking you to update it, it's already installed. The update manager isn't forcing anything upon you, so if you don't want flsh on your PC, you'll have to uninstall it.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-06-08
> **compmodder26 said:**
> Well if the update manager is trying get you to update the package, then it is indeed installed on your system.  Go into Synaptic and uninstall it.

Thanks for that helpful advise!

gumshoegrant

---

