---
title: "hard drive mounting issues"
date: 2008-07-16
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Ddub on 2008-07-16
On my computer I have three drives, one Linux, one XP, one storage. When I try to mount the XP and storage drives it says "permissions denied".
Does anyone know how to set it so that I mount the drives without being root and set them so they will automatically mount on startup?

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-07-16
> **Ddub said:**
> On my computer I have three drives, one Linux, one XP, one storage. When I try to mount the XP and storage drives it says "permissions denied".
Does anyone know how to set it so that I mount the drives without being root and set them so they will automatically mount on startup?

Simple, insert sudo in your mount command to get rid of the permission error. Place (2) entries in your fstab file to automatically mount your xp and storage drives.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-07-16
follow this

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G#Ubuntu%208.04%20LTS%20(Hardy%20Heron](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G#Ubuntu%208.04%20LTS%20(Hardy%20Heron))

---

### Post by Ddub on 2008-07-17
ntfs-config didn't seem to do anything.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-07-17
what does fstab show?

cat /etc/fstab

---

### Post by Ddub on 2008-07-17
```

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=8332cb93-0b80-471b-a08c-844f0e4fb78c / ext3 nouser,relatime,errors=remount-ro,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=13cc900c-652f-4faf-a2c5-0f1bbf2614d1 none swap sw 0 0
LABEL=CDROM /media/cdrom0 auto user,utf8,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto user,utf8,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
LABEL=37.3 /media/37.2 auto nouser,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
LABEL=18.6 /media/18.6 auto nouser,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
LABEL=18.6 /media/14 auto users,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
LABEL=37.2 /media/37.2 auto users,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
LABEL=37.2 /media/37.2 auto users,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
LABEL=37.2 <mountpoint> auto user,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
/dev/sda1 <mount\040point> auto users,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
```

```

---

### Post by Ddub on 2008-07-17
When I try to mount it as root this happens: 
```

```$ kdesudo mount /dev/sdc1
$LogFile indicates unclean shutdown (0, 0)

Failed to mount '/dev/sdc1': Operation not supported
Mount is denied because NTFS is marked to be in use. Choose one action:

Choice 1: If you have Windows then disconnect the external devices by
          clicking on the 'Safely Remove Hardware' icon in the Windows
          taskbar then shutdown Windows cleanly.

Choice 2: If you don't have Windows then you can use the 'force' option for
          your own responsibility. For example type on the command line:

            mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdc1 /media/37.2 -o force

    Or add the option to the relevant row in the /etc/fstab file:

            /dev/sdc1 /media/37.2 ntfs-3g force 0 0```

```

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-07-17
wow, that's a confusing fstab.

You might want to post your 

sudo fdisk -l

to help make sense of those partitions.  You really need to clean those entries up, get rid of redundancies.  Also, fstab lines must include fs type after /mountpoint (i.e. 'ntfs-3g'). 

>  $ kdesudo mount /dev/sdc1
 $LogFile indicates unclean shutdown (0, 0)
 
 Failed to mount '/dev/sdc1': Operation not supported
[COLOR=Red] Mount is denied because NTFS is marked to be in use[/COLOR]. 

cat /etc/mtab

---

### Post by Ddub on 2008-07-17
I think all those entries in fstab are mount points. here's what mtab says:

```

```/dev/sdb1 / ext3 rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 0
proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/sys /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
devshm /dev/shm tmpfs rw 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.24-19-generic/volatile tmpfs rw 0 0
securityfs /sys/kernel/security securityfs rw 0 0
binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc binfmt_misc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 ```

```0

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-07-17
> **Ddub said:**
> I think all those entries in fstab are mount points. here's what mtab says:

well, they're not mounting, no doubt because of the redundancies and lack of fs type, etc.

You still haven't posted sudo fdisk -l output.

Just curious: why those labels and mountpoints?

---

### Post by Ddub on 2008-07-17
I cleaned up fstab and the mount points (the names are the size of the drives except when I was trying to set them to automount through kcontrol I mistyped the mount point name). I'm not at the linux machine right now so I can post the fdisk entries. I will do that when I get home.

---

