---
title: "9.04 installation: No &quot;partition type&quot; option"
date: 2009-10-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by sayeo87 on 2009-10-24
I'm trying to dual boot Ubuntu 9.04 and Vista. However, I already have 3 primary partitions, so I have to create my swap partition before the / partition (If I create the / as primary first, the remaining free space becomes "unusable"). However, after I create the swap partition as a logical partition, when I go on to create the / partition, there no longer is an option to specify if I want it to be primary/logical! Will it become primary automatically? Should I worry about this? Thanks!

---

### Post by QLee on 2009-10-24
> **sayeo87 said:**
> I'm trying to dual boot Ubuntu 9.04 and Vista. However, I already have 3 primary partitions, so I have to create my swap partition before the / partition (If I create the / as primary first, the remaining free space becomes "unusable"). However, after I create the swap partition as a logical partition, when I go on to create the / partition, there no longer is an option to specify if I want it to be primary/logical! Will it become primary automatically? Should I worry about this? Thanks!

Worry? No, it is standard behaviour. You can only make 4 primaries and you started with three already used. The fourth partition has to be an extended if you're going to want more than 4. When you create the next partition (after swap in the case you detailed), it will be partition 6, a logical partition in the extended partition 4. This will be fine for what you say you want to do.

---

