---
title: "Compiz installed, compiz fuzion icon as well... still doesnt work"
date: 2008-05-24
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by bnmjosh on 2008-05-24
Well I've install all the compiz stuff I could find. Compiz itself, the compiz fuzion icon, etc.
I can't get the desktop effects to work!!! In the fusion icon, all the effects are checked. But when I try to use them they don't work. I tried restarted my PC and it just discarded all the changes I've made. 
I have a blacklisted video card, if you can't tell yet. Any commands I should use? I tried the "SKIPCHECK=YES" one and it didn't work... Thanks!

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-05-24
well firstly what are the specs of your computer?

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-05-24
Is direct rendering ON (check by executing glxinfo)
If it shows ON, then at a terminal, type in:
```
compiz --replace &
```

Since you don't have an Intel card, the direct rendering should be on. Otherwise, it might be a driver problem for you.

---

### Post by bnmjosh on 2008-05-24
> **LinuxIsInnovation said:**
> Is direct rendering ON (check by executing glxinfo)
If it shows ON, then at a terminal, type in:
```
compiz --replace &
```

Since you don't have an Intel card, the direct rendering should be on. Otherwise, it might be a driver problem for you.

I tried it just now, and this is what I got:

> Found laptop using ati driver. 
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1280x800) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No GLXFBConfig for default depth, this isn't going to work.
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0
josh@josh-laptop:~$ 


---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-05-24
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by bnmjosh on 2008-05-24
> **LinuxIsInnovation said:**
> ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Did that, got the same outcome of compiz --replace & .
Didn't matter if I chose either option of that menu.

---

### Post by bnmjosh on 2008-05-24
Wow I just found out that direct rendering isn't on. It said it was at first, but I checked again, says no. Or maybe I was seeing things...

How do I turn it on?

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-05-24
Except for Intel cards, direct rendering is generally ON for Nvidia and ATI cards. Otherwise, it maybe a driver problem for you. Personally, I have no idea about ATI drivers :(

---

### Post by bnmjosh on 2008-05-24
> **LinuxIsInnovation said:**
> Except for Intel cards, direct rendering is generally ON for Nvidia and ATI cards. Otherwise, it maybe a driver problem for you. Personally, I have no idea about ATI drivers :(

Darn, thanks for trying to help though.

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-05-24
Do check System->Administration->Hardware drivers for the ATI drivers, if you have'nt already checked, that is..

---

### Post by bnmjosh on 2008-05-24
The only thing there is Broadcam B43 Wireless Driver and it's checked. I suppose that means I don't have ATI drivers or something? :(

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-05-24
I wouldn't ofcourse make a guess, but Ubuntu doesn't seem to recognize your graphics card ..

---

### Post by Kinst on 2008-05-24
You use ATI?

Okay then you need the fglrx driver. 

Post the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf and I'll tell you which driver you have now. Backup that file while you're at it, you're going to need it.

---

### Post by bnmjosh on 2008-05-24
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by Kinst on 2008-05-24
Um okay...now I'm the one who's confused. It doesn't say. Mine's different...hm...

What I can tell you is that you need the proprietary fglrx driver to use compiz. Since you never installed it that means you're probably on one of the open source drivers that can't do big 3D stuff ( there's a lot of those: radeon, radeonhd, mesa, vesa, bleh )

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-05-24
Did you try clicking on your desktop and clicking desktop effects and then checking extra in the visual effects section.

Try that first and get back to us.

---

### Post by bnmjosh on 2008-05-25
> **markbuntu said:**
> Did you try clicking on your desktop and clicking desktop effects and then checking extra in the visual effects section.

Try that first and get back to us.

Dude just shut up. Not even going to answer that :|

---

