---
title: "11.04 install problem"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Wolligog on 2011-05-01
Ok, i have just downloaded 11.04 and burnt to disc as an .iso.    i want to install alongside 10:10 on a separate partition so i can try it out without affecting my 10:10 install.

i get as far as the partition table, i allocated 50g for 11.04 but when i try and continue i get a message that reads 'no root file type defined',    and it wont let me install 

any ideas please?  i am trying to install it to a portable hd with 174g of free space of which i have allocated 50 for 11.04,  the whole drive has been formatted to fat32 originally and i tried selecting ext4,  swap  and a few others but its not having it.

---

### Post by Linux&amp;Gsus on 2011-05-01
EXT4 would be correct.
I might be wrong, but it sounds to me you have no mount point specified, can that be? You need you need "/" or "root" to install Linux on. Also, it might be better to have about 15GB for "root" for the OS and the programs to install and a separate "/home" for the data with as much space as you need. Also formatted as EXT4.
Then have a "swap" partition, specifically if you have a machine with little RAM and/or want to hibernate the machine, in which case "swap" needs to be at least as big as the amount of RAM you have.

---

### Post by Wolligog on 2011-05-01
ok so how do i specify a mount point?  my 10:10 has 8g swap, my pc has 2.5 g ram

  i looked at the format drive option but it says it will erase the whole drive in order to repartition it, i cant do this as i will lose all of 10:10


how do make a separate home partition?  i was hoping to allocate about 7 or 8 g out of the 50 for swap and the rest for everything else.  i don't want to hibernate the machine, i just wanted to try 11.04 without affecting my 10:10 install

do i have to allocate a swap and root from the install screen?

---

### Post by aust77 on 2011-05-01
Are you sure that you even need to partition to install them alongside each other?

From what I know, the first option in the installer is to install Ubuntu 11.04 alongside 10.10, allowing you to choose between them at each boot.

It would allocate a set amount of free space to 11.04 (taken from 10.10, I'm not sure of the values used) but you could easily access GParted from within Ubuntu to remove either 11.04 or 10.10 when the time has come.

---

### Post by Wolligog on 2011-05-02
Right i have managed to install 11:04,  it was me being a total noob, i missed the option to set my partition as root, doh!!!

anyway on my first log in it said i do not have the required hardware to run unity please select classic option at the log in screen,

only problem is,  my log in screen does not give me any options to choose between unity and classic ubuntu.  is their something i need to install to run unity?

---

### Post by fabricator4 on 2011-05-02
> **Wolligog said:**
> 
only problem is,  my log in screen does not give me any options to choose between unity and classic ubuntu.  is their something i need to install to run unity?

It's tricky.  Select your username, then down the bottom you'll see spot on the bar where you can select classic ubuntu. It doesn't show up until you put your login name in the box. ;-)

Chris.

---

### Post by fabricator4 on 2011-05-02
> **Wolligog said:**
>   is their something i need to install to run unity?

Yes, usually a compatible graphics card, or drivers thereof.

You can always run Unity 2D, just install it from the Repository, then you'll have three selections on the login screen: classic, 2d, and Ubuntu (Unity 3d)

Chris.

---

### Post by Wolligog on 2011-05-02
Thanks buddy,  literally 2 seconds after i posted my previous post i got a notification saying there were drivers available,  i selected the 3d graphics driver, restarted my system and i now have unity :)

so now i can play about with untiy and see just how good it is,  first impressions of 11:04 after 5 mins usage are, i like it, looks really good and i think i might be staying with it,  fingers crossed.

thanks for the help though.

---

