---
title: "Help!  Ctrl-Alt-F1 and i lose video"
date: 2010-09-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by smokie75 on 2010-09-01
Pretty new to ubuntu so any help is greatly appreciated, have searched for days and can't find relsolution to my problem.  If i try to drop to shell using CTRL-ALT-F1-6 then i never see the command prompt.  I believe this may also have to do with not seeing bios screen at boot.  I am using Panasonic 50" plasma as monitor connected via hdmi by dvi-hdmi adapter from a GeForce 8400GS.  I believe a bad edid from the panasonic may also have something to do with it.


Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
Foxconn R20-D2 Intel Atom D510 Intel NM10 Intel GMA 
GeForce 8400GS

NVIDIA Driver Ver 195.36.24





xorg.conf-
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Panasonic-TV"
    HorizSync       15.0 - 68.0
    VertRefresh     23.0 - 61.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
    Option		"AccelMethod"			"uxa"
	Option		"EXAOptimizeMigration"		"true"
	Option		"MigrationHeuristic"		"greedy"
	Option		"Tiling"			"true" # i8xx users: see note in guide
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-01
When you boot ubuntu, do you get to the logon screen, login and then get the GUI?  If so, xorg is probably working for you already.  

The xorg.conf file is apparently still used in 10.04, but Xorg was updated quite a bit and tries to just auto-detect everything now.  There is an explanation of the pieces now at the following address - perhaps it can help you get the equivalent of xorg.conf working now (I think it would be an output device file):

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config")



Dave

---

### Post by smokie75 on 2010-09-01
When I boot the machine it shows the GeForce8400GS booting (4 lines of video card specific info, i assume is video card booting).  Then screen is pretty much black for the whole boot process (there is a blinking cursor or 4-5 garbled chars in the top left) until it gets to the login screen where i can get to the GUI no problem.  Actual problem here is that when i use ctrl-alt-f(1-6) to open a shell terminal, all i get is black.  It appears to me that when shell is opened, video changes to a resolution that is unsupported by the HDTV.  I hope i've made things clearer here.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-01
You may have to play with mode lines in the xorg.conf specifying resolution and clock rates and then select each of the resolutions when running and see one clears it up.

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-09-01
If you use proprietary drivers they write xorg.conf files.

The TTY prompt shouldn't be using xorg, so, modifying this file won't do anything for you.

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-09-01
After a little googling, it looks like the most likely problem is KMS, try rebooting and when GRUB comes up, press "e" to edit the kernel line, and add ```
nomodeset
```

If it works, modify your /etc/default/grub

find:```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
```
change it to ```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="nomodeset"
```

then run ```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by smokie75 on 2010-09-02
> **Ozymandias_117 said:**
> If you use proprietary drivers they write xorg.conf files.

The TTY prompt shouldn't be using xorg, so, modifying this file won't do anything for you.

This is what i suspected as well.  But if I'm not dual booting, how do i access grub?


EDIT: Ok, edited /etc/default/grub and added GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="nomodset".

Nothing has changed here :(

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-09-02
> **smokie75 said:**
> This is what i suspected as well.  But if I'm not dual booting, how do i access grub?


EDIT: Ok, edited /etc/default/grub and added GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="nomodset".

Nothing has changed here :(

Did you run update-grub?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-03
> **Ozymandias_117 said:**
> Did you run update-grub?

+1

After making changes to the grub files you must run update-grug as sudo in order to actually update the file used at boot.

Dave

---

### Post by smokie75 on 2010-09-03
> **anewguy said:**
> +1

After making changes to the grub files you must run update-grug as sudo in order to actually update the file used at boot.

Dave

Yes, I did sudo update-grub.  And no joy

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-09-04
Check your spelling:

you're showing some of your entries as "nomodset" and it should be "nomod_e_set".

Dave

---

### Post by smokie75 on 2010-09-05
> **anewguy said:**
> Check your spelling:

you're showing some of your entries as "nomodset" and it should be "nomod_e_set".

Dave

You are right, i was misspelling, corrected the error, then sudo update-grub, nothing has changed still.:confused:

---

### Post by smokie75 on 2010-09-07
So should i now assume that there are no other ways to set TTY resolution?

---

