---
title: ".desktop Icons Issue"
date: 2019-04-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by megaboz2 on 2019-04-27
Hi, all.  I recently did a clean install of 19.04 on my Ubuntu partition.  While most things have been running smoothly, I've noticed that all of my third-party .desktop files seem to be broken.  I have a number of games from GOG.com on a secondary drive that I run via .desktop files in a folder on my desktop created by the installers (along with some applications in /opt/ on the main drive).  In the past, I would double-click the .desktop file for the first time, the program would run, and upon returning to the desktop the .desktop file would be replaced with the icon image and drop the ".desktop" file type on the end.  Now, I just have a bunch of plaintext files.  Currently, instead of running a program, double-clicking simply opens the file in a text editor.  The same goes for adding a .desktop file to the "Show Applications" menu; clicking the icon does nothing.

I can still run these programs via their .sh files or executables, but it's obviously much less convenient.  Any suggestions out there as to how to get the system to play nice again?


Thanks,
M

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-04-27
Well, your system isn't broken: it was a deliberate choice by the Nautilus devs. And, in keeping with the current Gnome MO, I don't think they even left it as an option.

I suspect they really want everyone to use Nemo or KDE instead.

---

### Post by megaboz2 on 2019-04-28
> **CatKiller said:**
> it was a deliberate choice by the Nautilus devs.

Huh, that certainly explains things, I guess.  Shame on me for not paying attention to release notes before upgrading, apparently (I'll spare the forum my exact words upon looking this up after your response).  Thanks for letting me know.

Looks like it's time to start shopping around for a new desktop environment...


--M

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-04-28
> **megaboz2 said:**
> Looks like it's time to start shopping around for a new desktop environment...

FWIW, I really like KDE. My only complaints about it are that KWin doesn't do some of the things that Compiz did, like mipmapping. But Gnome didn't have Compiz, either.

And, yes, it was the many, many decisions from Gnome to remove features and options that made me switch.

---

