---
title: "new 14.04.1 install problem."
date: 2014-12-12
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-12
i had 14.04 install (lts) was running the program boinc.
i got a death screen. boinc crashed.
system would not reboot.

reinstall 14.04. which install ok. ran system update.
when it rebooted. i got the ubuntu screen (5 dots)
there it sat.

so, i downloaded the 14.04.01 lts.

did a drive wipe. installed 14.04.01. that was fine
run system update. got the ubuntu screen (5 dots) there it sat.

system spec.
ms-7692 (msi 970a-g46)
cpu 8350
memory 16g (max because of boinc memory requirement.)
video hd 5450 silent (asus)
320g hard drive.

i am now running ubuntu 14.04.01 without system updates.

memroy test is clean. not error on hard drive.
stock video drive. (one ubuntu selected.)

---

### Post by grier-devon on 2014-12-12
When you say stock drivers I am assuming you mean the open source drivers, try running the proprietary drivers and see if the problem persist. Do you have a second computer? It would be nice you could reach back out to us when the problem hits so when can go some command line work to further diagnose the issue.

---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-13
sorry, just the one.

actually, this is the third system in two years.
first one was windows 8  8150 and askrock motherboard.
motherboard died after 6 months. taking the cpu with it.
amd the replaced the cpu chip. motherboard. that motherboard line was bad. others were having the same problem.
did not replace that under warranty.

second,
msi. motherboard died. taking the cpu.
amd replace the cpu. gave me the 8350 instead.
motherboard was under warranty. replaced.
put ubuntu on that system.

now the third system.
same settup as second. just more memory. replaced the power suppy, just to see if that was the problem
with system two.


i have the tv as the second monitor on this system.
download video blogs and watch them on tv. (vlc)
i tried the other video drivers, back on the second system. found the open version was the best for that.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-12-13
I'm ready to help you, but I don't understand what is the problem, and where to start. Please describe what is working and what is not working, and what help you want.

---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-13
i found the problem.

if i have the tv plug in. the system locks up at boot time.
if i unplug it. the system will boot like normal.

after trying diferent system update option. (only installing select items.)

so, it must be the open version video driver that is the problem.

which of the other two would be best to have the tv as a second montior
(1080p by hdmi)

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-12-14
I can only guess which video driver works well with Radeon  hd 5450. [COLOR=#006400]Let us hope someone with experience of Radeon graphics will reply and give advice[/COLOR] :-)

[COLOR=#696969]I'm running Intel and nvidia graphics, and do not know much about Radeon/ATI/AMD graphics.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-12-14
I have a few AMDs and it's not a pretty story. AMD has dropped support for their older cards, but most of the HD series is still supported (though sometimes with studied indifference). If you are finding that the "radeon" (FOSS) driver is sufficient, then try adding the *nomodeset* switch to grub.```
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```Find and then change line to:```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodeset"
```Then:```
sudo update-grub && sudo poweroff
```After system shuts down, plug TV back in and power back up. If you are still stuck at five dots, hit <Esc> to see what is behind the splash screen and note where system is stuck. You should also try shifting to a free console to shut down properly instead of just hitting power or reset switch. To try getting to an open console: <Ctrl>+<Alt>+<F1>, then when system switches to console:```
sudo poweroff
```Especially important to post back with any messages or details.

---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-14
i did all but the last line.

the system did not lock up. but full load.
screen display is 1400x1050 on both screens.
(system setting - screen display only shows one screen
builtin display)

did not have to do the sudo power off.
i have the program cairo-dock. was able to power off with that option.

what next?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-12-14
In other words, it is no longer choking at boot, you can see a desktop, but the TV is mirroring the image on your monitor? Please explain more clearly, as I am struggling a bit with your reply. It helps if you refrain from describing in short snippets (not a criticism; just a suggestion) and provide more complete explanations without assuming that we know your system.

Examples: What is your monitor? Is your machine a desktop or laptop? Is the native monitor resolution 1400x1050? I assume an HD TV? If so, what resolution (720P or 1080P)? How is monitor connected (VGA, DVI, HDMI, Displayport)? Likewise, how is TV connected? Are connections direct to computer or do they run through a receiver?

I should note that Linux nomenclature is sometimes very confusing: when it comes to driver names, "radeon" is actually the FOSS driver that is developed largely by the Linux community, even though the word *radeon* is a trademark of AMD. The proprietary driver from AMD is "Catalyst" but shows up in your processes as "fglrx". I know, it's stupid, but that's just the way it is.

Before asking you to post back all sorts of info, please go to System Settings>Screen Display and see if your monitor and TV have not simply been set to mirror each other. This is the setting that Ubuntu defaults to when a TV has been detected. If you fiddle with these settings, it may solve your issue without having to get into any further complexities.

---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-15
tv pluged into hdmi port on video card.  tv screen is 1080p/60
desktop monitor pluged into vga port. monitor 1080p.

screen settings on both 1400 x 1050 (4:3) mirroring.

boot up with no problem.

screen snap shot included of the settings of screen.

---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-15
is there a remote access for ubuntu.
so you can come into the system?

---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-15
is there a remote access program for ubuntu.
so you can access this computer?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-12-15
A simple method is to use ***ssh***. Install an ssh server into it and log in remotely.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Configuring](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Configuring)

---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-15
if i did it right. ssh is running.

ip address  64.201.205.143

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-12-15
You can use ssh locally (in a LAN) without worrying too much. But be more cautious with access via the internet. As described in the link about openssh,[SIZE=2]

**Disable Password Authentication**

[/SIZE] Because  a lot of people with SSH servers use weak passwords, many online  attackers will look for an SSH server, then start guessing passwords at  random.  An attacker can try thousands of passwords in an hour, and  guess even the strongest password given enough time.  The recommended  solution is to use [SSH keys]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Keys") instead of passwords.

---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-15
is it not working?

i had [SIZE=2][B]Disable Password Authentication

i have set up the router for ssh to this machine.

after you have done.
i will do a fresh install of ubuntu.


[/B][/SIZE]

---

### Post by vgfgfg on 2014-12-15
the public key

  	 	 	 	   ssh-rsa
AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQC0pKrneKU+oSLKUt3nE63bSBW/w8wlSNkviThKsBfqeDb1DAItjXv0tBGIRgIOtFG6jU6ZXQmyl2vOe3Yvq2Fcs2s3dYwPY1kcwXXpYzmNPEkYcO7oDW04h6crL5iCq6EwF5p/x5bSyb0kmHgwRq0eBPLsipc6oyJpdhikcGFpYlu6OybOrRM4qJ41GiRF82qBBqUavdwSBa6zBmclchS6nhzn4mYUmQ4mcEnRGwufHD2Jc1x8DE/ssCV3h7XGc3i7Jaw2PbJMlKzVoZ7XUtDHtLchcvmwC2BYeorzCskFb/HbriXwTbYxbpHMIk/4lVZkVZfA4e8mak2U7osCIHoX
vernon@v8350

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-12-16
> **vgfgfg said:**
> the public key...You do not need to post your public key to a public forum. While nothing  bad may come of it, it isn't necessary. And under NO circumstances do  you post your private key. Ever.> **[SIZE=2]...[/SIZE]**[SIZE=2][B]after you have done.
i will do a fresh install of ubuntu.[/B][/SIZE]I don't understand. Are you reinstalling your system yet again? Have you already done so? We can try working out the issues with your monitor/TV setup, but if you are going to reinstall, then there is no point.

---

