---
title: "11.10 Ubuntu does not shutdown/restart"
date: 2012-04-03
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by EddieNYC on 2012-04-03
Hi All.


Rarely post but have been on UF for a while now. Still learning Linux/Ubuntu as time goes on.

Have a strange problem all of a sudden.

I've had 11.10 on my machine since its release. No problems. 

Not sure when this problem started occuring but my machine does not reboot/shutdown via Ubuntu. When I am logged in and select Shutdown or restart, it logs me off and I am directed to the main login screen. Attempting to shutdown or restart from there renders useless as well. Menu pops up. Restart/ShutDown is selected. Nothing happens.


Any ideas?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by FatFrog on 2012-04-03
I saw the same issue myself. I had no idea how to fix it. I had to re-install because of a pilot error during my initial installation. That fixed my issue.
That being said, I would take a look at your /etc/shutdown.allow file and make sure you have permissions to shutdown and reboot...

The steps are as follows

# sudo vi /etc/shutdown.allow

arrow down until you reach the below set of strings and
compare... do they match?

%shutdown ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /sbin/reboot
%shutdown ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /sbin/halt
%shutdown ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /sbin/shutdown

This is not intended to be a resolution, just a good place to start.

---

### Post by ianhaycox on 2012-04-03
Same issue for me. Upgraded from 10.04 ? to 11.10

My workaround is to Ctrl-Alt-F1 to get a terminal, then login and issue,

```
$ sudo shutdown -h now
```

From memory using a terminal from within Gnome does not work either.

I don't have a /etc/shutdown.allow file at all. Should I ?

---

### Post by FatFrog on 2012-04-03
You can run the following command to allow non root users to shut down

sudo chmod u+s /sbin/shutdown

This adds suid mode to the shutdown command

---

