---
title: "10.4 web browser gone!!"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2010-05-01
After installing 10.4 my Firefox web browser has disappeared. I don't mind this and I am happy with any thing I can get on the web with. I downloaded chromium from software in Ubuntu but I can not find it on my desk top. I could only get on line at all through Ubuntu one, Ideas?

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-05-01
Do these browsers not show up under "Applications"/Internet?

---

### Post by jvc26 on 2010-05-01
If you open up a terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal) and then type

```
firefox
```

and

```
chromium-browser
```

Do either of them launch? It may just be they've dropped of the menus. If thats the case, right click on the ubuntu menu, select 'edit' and then go to internet and either add a new launcher for each, or tick the deselected box.

J

---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2010-05-01
> **jvc26 said:**
> If you open up a terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal) and then type

```
firefox
```and

```
chromium-browser
```Do either of them launch? It may just be they've dropped of the menus. If thats the case, right click on the ubuntu menu, select 'edit' and then go to Internet and either add a new launcher for each, or tick the deselected box.

J

Yeah they launch OK if I type firefox into the terminal  but how do i get an icon up so ican put them into favorites or my desk top?

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2010-05-01
Desktop:

[LIST]
[*]Right-click your desktop and select Create Launcher.
[*]In *Name*, type whatever you like (e.g. Firefox).
[*]In *Command*, type [FONT=Courier New]firefox[/FONT] (no capital letters).
[*]In *Comment*, type whatever you like.
[*]Press OK
[/LIST]
Test the new launcher.

---

### Post by Iknownothing on 2010-05-01
Nothing Happens

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2010-05-01
> **Iknownothing said:**
> Nothing Happens
When?

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-05-01
Go to System > Main Menu and add them to the Internet section. Once they're in there you should be able to add them back to your favourites if you want.

---

### Post by durand on 2010-05-01
> **Paqman said:**
> Go to System > Main Menu and add them to the Internet section. Once they're in there you should be able to add them back to your favourites if you want.

That should be System > Preferences > Main Menu.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-05-02
> **durand said:**
> That should be System > Preferences > Main Menu.

Not on the Netbook Edition it ain't ;) Preferences and Admin are just two panes on the System page.

---

### Post by durand on 2010-05-02
> **Paqman said:**
> Not on the Netbook Edition it ain't ;) Preferences and Admin are just two panes on the System page.

Ah, my bad. Sorry :(

---

