---
title: "is 9.10 good enough to switch"
date: 2009-12-06
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by ub9876 on 2009-12-06
is it worth going from 9.04 to 9.10?

---

### Post by Norm24 on 2009-12-06
For me it certainly was.I can suspend my laptop finally!Loads super fast compared to previous versions.

I personally have never had issues with upgrading but many others have.For Karmic I did a clean install because I wanted the option of Ext4 partitions and Grub2,you won't have these options if upgrading.

Backup /home and do a clean install.

---

### Post by Nightstrike2009 on 2009-12-06
I would say no it introduces several problems that 9.04 didn't have, e.g. failure to connect to internet with USB 3G Modem sticks, Bluetooth doesn't work (worked partially in 9.04) and problems with sound due to pulseaudio and OpenAL.

My advice is to stick with 9.04 until 10.4LTS is released, however this is only my opinion, others experiences differ according to PC Set-up. 

If you have a USB 3G Broadband modem stick then I can only reccomend you avoid 9.10.

> By Norm24:I personally have never had issues with upgrading but many others have.[B]For Karmic I did a clean install because I wanted the option of Ext4 partitions and Grub2,you won't have these options if upgrading.
[/B]

This is partially untrue if you set partitioning to manual set up you can use Ext4 with Ubuntu 9.04. However this does require knowledge of partitioning as could wipe wrong hard drive if not careful, however you are correct on Grub2 but I don't see any advantage in running grub2 anyhow. 

I don't intend to upset anyone just providing info on this. :)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-12-06
I would suggest you try the Live CD first to see if all your hardware is supported.

---

### Post by Nightstrike2009 on 2009-12-06
> By cariboo907:I would suggest you try the Live CD first to see if all your hardware is supported.

This may not work on the 3G broadband issue Linux Mint 8 (based on Ubuntu 9.10) allows you to use 3G vodafone modem on livecd, but after installation of Ubuntu 9.10 to hard drive it detects but doesn't connect to the internet at all.:(

---

### Post by Defiant Rat on 2009-12-06
> **Norm24 said:**
> For me it certainly was.I can suspend my laptop finally!

+1, Karmic works pretty much perfect out of the box on my
 laptop.

> **cariboo907 said:**
> I would suggest you try the Live CD first to see if all your hardware is supported.

Always a good idea, lets you test it with your hardware. Even if the live CD works, it dosnt always mean it will be bug free though.

---

### Post by mbuller10 on 2009-12-06
On a thinkpad sl500 with nvidia g 105m it sure as hell was, works a lot better, had to edit my etc/fstab/ was having some boot probelms but nothing serious

---

### Post by davec64 on 2009-12-06
It works fine for me!

Just run the Live CD and check your hardware first.

If you want ext4 then you'll have to do a fresh install for it to be installed by default.

---

### Post by baltadt on 2009-12-06
Worked perfect for me and was user friendly enough that I switched my father unlawful to it from win xp.

---

### Post by leonardo_neo on 2009-12-06
Many people are having good experience with 9.10. Many are experiencing trouble with this.

Try the live CD and check all the hardware supports.

Personally I am experiencing slow boot with karmic (monitored clock time, and not subjective feeling). Rest all seems to work fine.

---

### Post by aktiwers on 2009-12-06
I had problems upgrading, though a clean install runs very well :)

---

### Post by ofb on 2009-12-06
Minor caution: the LiveCD does not provide a perfect compatibility test. It doesn't load the proprietary video driver that many cards need to provide 3d. (The Mandriva LiveCD does, which is handy.) I've had to retire a couple of Nvidia cards after unhappy installs. It would have been nice to catch that with the LiveCD.

Also the LiveCD doesn't catch the new UUID bug that is causing a few people much grief with Karmic installs and upgrades.

Other consideration is you cannot upgrade to 10.04LTS from 9.04 later. You'll only be able to upgrade from 8.04LTS and 9.10. If you do fresh installs instead of upgrades, then this doesn't apply.

Otherwise, Karmic is fine I guess. The UUID issue soured my upgrade a little. After that, I don't find it all that different. It's nice to have newer versions of a couple of my apps, but I don't think there's any reason to rush to change from 9.04.

---

### Post by Castor68 on 2009-12-06
With a full clean install, 9.10 is working well for me in my desktop. In my laptop I can't connect to the Internet with the Realtek device. I got to try with a USB wireless adapter. In a few words: so far so good.

---

### Post by peas on my plate on 2009-12-06
I've been with ubuntu since 7.04 and have updated with each release.  9.10 was one of the easiest to install and quickest to get set up just how I like it.

Like all releases there were a few problems to work through.  But that's part of Ubuntu's charm for me- if it worked "straight out of the box" there would be no challenge, and nothing to learn.

---

### Post by deathbyswiftwind on 2009-12-06
I love 9.10 on my laptop. It runs great. On my wifes laptop is another story. Due to her having an ati its not so hot since the drivers wont work with it. On 9.04 it runs just fine for her so shes on that and Im on 9.10. Loving every minute of it. No big rush to get to 9.10 if it works dont fix it ;) I just like to have the most up to date versions so I can post feedback and try to help make the next LTS the very best it can be!

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-12-06
Another issue the Live CD won't catch ... installing to fake raid. 9.10 will "see" your fake raid setup but grub2 will not install or work with it.

---

