---
title: "9.04 f-spot"
date: 2009-07-21
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-21
last week when trying f-spot for the first time with just 1 pic on the camera to try it out everything worked fine...

yesterday i tried to transfer 34 pix from an outdoor car show and all went well until it didnt accept/know my camera any longer...

i am new to pc's/9.04 and quite possibly downloaded something that conflicts with g-spot ???

so my question is --- can i start f-spot form square 1 ??? is there any way to revert f-spot to the way it was when 9.04 was first installed ???

thanks...

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2009-07-21
I don't use f-spot myself. To reset f-spot to defaults, look in ~/.config folder. There should be a folder for f-spot where its settings are stored. Delete the folder and re-open f-spot.

---

### Post by user34532 on 2009-07-21
Try
```
apt-get purge f-spot
apt-get install f-spot
```purge-option will delete also configuration files

---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-21
> **user34532 said:**
> Try
```
apt-get purge f-spot
apt-get install f-spot
```purge-option will delete also configuration files


apt-get purge f-spot
E: Could not open lock file /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (13 Permission denied)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), are you root?

now what ???  thanks...

---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-21
> **kpkeerthi said:**
> I don't use f-spot myself. To reset f-spot to defaults, look in ~/.config folder. There should be a folder for f-spot where its settings are stored. Delete the folder and re-open f-spot.


 ~/.config folder.  please clarify---im having a hard time finding this...

thanks...

---

### Post by Whiffle on 2009-07-21
> **user34532 said:**
> Try
```
apt-get purge f-spot
apt-get install f-spot
```purge-option will delete also configuration files

Actually it should be this:


```
sudo apt-get purge f-spot
sudo apt-get install f-spot
```

---

### Post by NOTAGEEK on 2009-07-21
> **Whiffle said:**
> Actually it should be this:


```
sudo apt-get purge f-spot
sudo apt-get install f-spot
```


sudo apt-get purge f-spot
[sudo] password for ===
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  libcurl3
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  f-spot*
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
After this operation, 10.6MB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y
(Reading database ... 118966 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing f-spot ...
Purging configuration files for f-spot ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
=======sudo apt-get install f-spot
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  libcurl3
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  f-spot
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 1823kB of archives.
After this operation, 10.6MB of additional disk space will be used.
Get:1 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/main f-spot 0.5.0.3-1ubuntu6 [1823kB]
Fetched 1823kB in 17s (103kB/s)                                                
Selecting previously deselected package f-spot.
(Reading database ... 118641 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking f-spot (from .../f-spot_0.5.0.3-1ubuntu6_i386.deb) ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up f-spot (0.5.0.3-1ubuntu6) ...


ahhhh---that looks like the situation has been handled huh ???

thanks...

---

