---
title: "1.7TB free on disk, but filesystem is full."
date: 2013-06-27
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by HolmRenser on 2013-06-27
Hello all,

I recently installed a 2TB disk to handle large files. It is mounted as /media/Data. When checking the properties of the disk it says there is still 1.7TB free.

The problem: I want to extract a 1.9GB file that is on the disk. During extraction I get an error saying I do not have enough space. If I check this with the disk usage analyzer, indeed the root is completely full.

However, below is what I get from typing df in the terminal:
[TABLE="width: 500"]
[TR]
[TD]Filesystem[/TD]
[TD] Size [/TD]
[TD]Used [/TD]
[TD]Avail[/TD]
[TD] Use%[/TD]
[TD]Mounted on[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]/dev/sda6        [/TD]
[TD]49G [/TD]
[TD]41G [/TD]
[TD]5.3G   [/TD]
[TD]89%  [/TD]
[TD]/[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]udev               [/TD]
[TD]5.9G[/TD]
[TD]12K  [/TD]
[TD]5.9G[/TD]
[TD]1%    [/TD]
[TD]/dev[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]tmpfs[/TD]
[TD]2.4G  [/TD]
[TD]840K[/TD]
[TD]2.4G[/TD]
[TD]1%  [/TD]
[TD]/run[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]none   [/TD]
[TD]5.9G   [/TD]
[TD]76K  [/TD]
[TD]5.9G   [/TD]
[TD]1% [/TD]
[TD]/run/shm[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]/dev/sdb1[/TD]
[TD]1.8T   [/TD]
[TD]152G    [/TD]
[TD]1.6T        [/TD]
[TD]9%  [/TD]
[TD]/media/Data[/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]

I have only very little knowledge on how the linux filesystem works and am pretty lost here.
Any thoughts?

---

### Post by Paqman on 2013-06-27
I suspect the problem is that the system wants to create a temporary file during extraction. By default /tmp is under / which is on your root partition. You should be able to free some space on your root partition, try using [Bleachbit]("apt:bleachbit") and running it as root. This should give you enough space to extract your file. If you have enough RAM you might want to consider putting /tmp into a ramdisk.

After that, you need to sort your root partition out. Running any filesystem 89% full is a bad idea, and will result in fragmentation that reduces perfromance. You need to either have a clear out or expand that partition.

---

### Post by HolmRenser on 2013-07-01
Thanks for the quick reply, I just did what you suggested and it worked.

Great to see so much support for linux newbies!

---

