---
title: ".iso and what to do"
date: 2011-05-28
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by loukeeya on 2011-05-28
this is my first ever use of ubuntu and i burned an .iso to disk-how do i install it and run the software?    thanx

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2011-05-28
Put the CD in the drive and reboot. If you burned it right, and your BIOS settings are correct, you should boot straight into Ubuntu from the CD :D

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2011-05-28
Yes, and try Ubuntu first, dont install it without trying it.
If you want to to install it, make a backup of all your data and if you want to still use Windows, install Ubuntu alongside Windows.

---

### Post by Matt__ on 2011-05-28
If it dosnt automativally boot to the cd...try pressing F12 repeatedly as the pc boots to get a boot menu.
OR
Enter the bios which is sometimes named setup (this key varies from machine to machine usually ESC, DEL or F2, but it should tell you at the bottom of the screen what key to use to enter "setup" or "bios" as soon as you turn on pc), go to boot order and set CD to the top/first device.

and as said above...select TRY UBUNTU first to make sure it works and you like it.

If you have any problems or questions just ask here. 
You might also consider trying [10.04 lucid]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download") (use dropdown menu to find it) with its long term support too as its desktop style may be more familiar to you than the netbook style Unity desktop of 11.04 natty.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-28
It never hurts to make sure you have a good cd. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

---

