---
title: "11.04 Change Computer Name"
date: 2011-10-10
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-10-10
How do I change my computer name? e.g. gumshoegrant@ gumshoegrant-desktop:~$

Would like to change it from gumshoegrant-desktop to Orange-desktop.

thanks

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-10-10
Edited: Use post #3 below please.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-10-10
NO! That will leave sudo broken.
You need to edit both /etc/hostname and /etc/hosts. 
I suggest opening both of them in an editor before saving either - that way you won't get caught unable to edit the second one because sudo won't play any more.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-10-10
I am sure there is someone out there clever enough to write a script for this

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-10-10
> I am sure there is someone out there clever enough to write a script for this There is a GUI tool named "ubuntu-tweak" that will do this and more
that a lot of users use. Have looked at it before and does quite a bit really.

---

### Post by qkall on 2011-10-10
if memory serves ubuntu tweak offers this option

[http://ubuntu-tweak.com/](http://ubuntu-tweak.com/)

---

### Post by Lisiano on 2011-10-10
Isn't it simpler to just use ```
sudo -i
nano /etc/hosts
nano /etc/hostname
exit
```
You break sudo but you are already root = no need for sudo, then you unbreak it by editing the 2nd file.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-10-11
Yup, that'll do the trick. 

I always launch a root terminal when I'm doing sysadmin work - life is too short for typing all those sudos. To do root's work, I want to **be** root.

---

### Post by aquarius18 on 2011-12-05
> **Lisiano said:**
> Isn't it simpler to just use ```
sudo -i
nano /etc/hosts
nano /etc/hostname
exit
```You break sudo but you are already root = no need for sudo, then you unbreak it by editing the 2nd file.

just implemented this little beauty on my wife's 11.04 install and can report that it worked without a single glitch :D

---

