---
title: "8.10 won't install, 8.04 will"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by derekshaw on 2008-11-07
Don't know where best to report this.

I've just created the 8.10 CD and used it to try to install to a toshiba satellite A200.  I checked the integrity of the CD before starting.

I tried an install directly from the boot menu (after choosing English), and it eventually ended up at the console, the installation GUI never having appeared.

Next I tried it with my trusty 8.04 CD (at least 30 installs to its credit) and it got to the normal point of being able to choose keyboard layout, location, etc.

I tried the 8.10 CD again -- I got the same "drop thru to console" behaviour.  Just to exercise things, I wrote a new disklabel to obliterate the Windows Vista that had been on the machine.

so -- what to do?

I have the laptop for a while (not an indefinte time, since it is a client's), but I have a couple of days to try and figure out why the 8.10 won't install (not that installing from 8.04 is a big deal -- the updates are all cached on a local server).

Cheers!
d.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-07
Have you tried any of the options by pressing F4 or F6 at the menu screen. You may have to use one of the apic options, or even try safe graphics mode.

Jim

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-11-07
You might want to check out alternative flavours of Ubuntu.

I use one of the A100 range (not the A200 range) of Toshiba laptops, and found that the Xubuntu flavour of Ubuntu seems to suit it better with 8.10, installed with the "alternate" install disk. This machine happily ran Ubuntu 7.04 (again installed with the "alternate" disk) Part of my choosing the alternate disk for installation is that this particular machine only has 256Mb ram.

---

### Post by derekshaw on 2008-11-07
Thanks for the ideas.  I can see I need to be a little clearer.

The key issue is that I install a corporate standard of ubuntu.  Maintenance  and end-user support become vastly simpler when there is consistency across dozens of machnines.  Alternate versions are not really an option.

The new version, 8.10, does not install on a piece of hardware that does accept the current standard, 8.04.

Put another way, it looks like something in 8.10 is broken, and I can't trust it.   I'd LIKE a shortcut around installing the bazillion patches (OK - it's only a few hundred, but still...) since 8.04 was first released, especially when I'm not at my office, but on a client site. (And yes, I know 8.04 is the LTS version, appropriate for corporate use, but we all have a finite amount of time on this planet, and waiting for patches to download doesn't count as a good use of that time).

So, does anybody know where to go to find out why the 8.10 installer might be "broken" when compared to the 8.04 installer?

thanks in advance!
d.

---

### Post by derekshaw on 2008-11-07
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Have you tried any of the options by pressing F4 or F6 at the menu screen. You may have to use one of the apic options, or even try safe graphics mode.

Jim

Just getting back to installing the patches and doing the hardware testing/reporting with 8.04.  I'd really like to understand, though, why the 8.04 version works when the 8.10 version doesn't.

---

### Post by NiSlo on 2008-11-07
I'm having the EXACT same problem and is the reason I've just now signed up. All I end up with is the console prompt and as I'm a complete ni n00b (my first attempted install) I've got NO idea where to go or what the problem might be.

Maybe a 8.04 install is the way to go and update from there?

I'm using the Live Cd straight from the website and I have verified the cd.

*edit* Safe Graphics mode got me there in the end. Works Great!

---

### Post by Poyntz on 2008-11-07
Rather than attempting to install the updated distribution, have you tried to upgrade to Intrepid Ibex?

```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

---

### Post by derekshaw on 2008-11-09
> **NiSlo said:**
> I'm having the EXACT same problem and is the reason I've just now signed up. All I end up with is the console prompt and as I'm a complete ni n00b (my first attempted install) I've got NO idea where to go or what the problem might be.

Maybe a 8.04 install is the way to go and update from there?

I'm using the Live Cd straight from the website and I have verified the cd.

*edit* Safe Graphics mode got me there in the end. Works Great!

Safe graphics mode did not work for this laptop.  Same failure of GUI.  The other consoles worked fine.

---

### Post by derekshaw on 2008-11-09
> **Poyntz said:**
> Rather than attempting to install the updated distribution, have you tried to upgrade to Intrepid Ibex?

```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

The upgrade took 9 hours of downloading before it could be installed.  I think I'm better off sticking with the slightly less than 300 updates. 

Still, it's worrisome that the installer doesn't work on hardware that 8.04 works with.

Is there a way to report something like this to the ??? development team ???

---

### Post by bennachie on 2008-11-09
What was the actual message that you got on the console when the installation stalled? Did it involve "busybox" and "initramfs"?

---

### Post by derekshaw on 2008-11-09
> **bennachie said:**
> What was the actual message that you got on the console when the installation stalled? Did it involve "busybox" and "initramfs"?

nope -- just the stock user@ubuntu (or whatever the user and hostname are when you boot up to a live CD). Like what you'd get with Ctrl+Alt+F1, only already logged on.

There was also the tail end of the boot sequence on the screen (as in what you'd get from dmesg | tail -10).  I didn't check to see which console I was on.

Can't tell you exactly what the details about that was right now 'cause the laptop is busy being re-installed as 8.04.

BTW -- the live CD boot had the same outcome -- no GUI, ended up at the console, both with the normal and the "Safe Graphics" option.

---

### Post by devil's_child on 2008-11-09
Hi everyone,

I think I got it, I am writing this in my installed Ibex right now.

The problem is in the X configuration, but the safe graphics mode didn't work for me either.  

This how I worked it out:

1. Try to boot the live CD/usb until it fails, I did it using the safe graphics mode. When X fails you will get back to console.

2. As superuser, I changed my /etc/X11/xorg.conf to use VESA drivers. I attached my xorg.conf. I guess it is not perfect but was enough for me to boot.

3.After replacing, change to "ubuntu" user to get the right desktop configuration and  you should run the X server properly.
   # startx  

4.Finally run the ubiquity installer to install the system as if the system booted right. Remember to umount any hard drive or partitions you previously mounted, otherwise the installer will find nothing in the Hard drive partitioning step.


I hope this solves the problem, as it did it for me.

Let's hope they solve this and it doesn't happen again in 9.04 Jaunty Jackapole.

---

### Post by derekshaw on 2008-11-10
> **devil's_child said:**
> Hi everyone,

...This how I worked it out:

2. As superuser, I changed my /etc/X11/xorg.conf to use VESA drivers. I attached my xorg.conf. I guess it is not perfect but was enough for me to boot.
...

Let's hope they solve this and it doesn't happen again in 9.04 Jaunty Jackapole.

Hear! Hear!

Your xorg.txt file is vastly more complicated than the xorg.conf that comes with the failed attempted install.  Here's what the failed install on the laptop is using:
[INDENT]Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/INDENT]

Now, just out of curiosity, did you copy your xorg.conf from another system?  or did you find it mostly intact on the system you were installing on to?

Anyway, I just copied your xorg.txt file to /etc/X11/xorg.conf (via usb drive) and then ran startx and the ibex desktop came up.  

"sudo ubiquity" now has the laptop installing ibex as one would expect.

Excellent work -- now how do I thank you?  If you haven't got a thanks by the time you read this, let me know.

And going back to my FIRST question -- 

Anybody know how we report this problem and workaround to whomever to ensure it gets fixed?

Cheers!
d.

---

### Post by bswanboat on 2008-11-10
I too am having the same issue. The cd to install 8.10 just gets to the 'busybox' and initramfs. I have tried several different combinations under the F4 and F6 options. 8.04 installs without out issues. I am trying the upgrade method now. Is it just the xorg.config file?

Suggestions would be appreciated!
Bill

---

### Post by devil's_child on 2008-11-10
Hmm, yes you're right, I have that configuration file since I had problems with the ati drivers in Gutsy I think. I saved it for this kind of situations, but I never thought I would need it at installation time. Anyway, I suppose you can run the X configuration wizard in text mode and configure it. 

Well, I'm a newbie in this forum myself, but if I'm not wrong, you can thank anyone by using the medal button in the bottom right of the post. Anyway, this forum safed me several times by now, so it's ok don't worry, it was just time to give something to the community back.


I found this for reporting bugs read it, it´s quite simple:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs)

I´ve already reported it, but it seems it's not the first time that this kind of error appears, so I guess it will be corrected for next release.

I got no busybox nor initramfs like error so no luck in there.

Cheers!

---

### Post by derekshaw on 2008-11-11
same result (8.04 will, 8.10 won't) in exactly the same failure mode (ubuntu console) with a new computer: 

ASUS P5KPL-CM sporting an Intel e8400 cpu.  ASUS spec says Intel g31 chipset, memtest (on the install cd) says g33.

That's 2 for 2 in the "fails to install" column for 8.10.  I suspect devil's_child's solution will work here.  I've had problems with intel chipsets and upgrades to the xorg driver on other (8.04) machines.

Further bulletins as installs are tried.

---

### Post by derekshaw on 2008-11-12
> **bswanboat said:**
> I too am having the same issue. The cd to install 8.10 just gets to the 'busybox' and initramfs. I have tried several different combinations under the F4 and F6 options. 8.04 installs without out issues. I am trying the upgrade method now. Is it just the xorg.config file?

Suggestions would be appreciated!
Bill

any more details -- a little googling shows a couple of failure modes 
e.g.
Boot failures on systems with Intel D945 motherboards

Users have reported slower than normal detection of SATA hard drives on systems with Intel D945 motherboards in Ubuntu 8.10. This may cause the system to drop to a busybox initramfs shell on boot with a "Gave up waiting for root device." error. Wait a minute or two and then exit the initramfs shell by typing 'exit'. Booting should proceed normally. If it doesn't, wait a bit longer and try again. Once the system boots, edit /boot/grub/menu.lst and add rootdelay=90 to the kernel stanza for your current kernel. (Bug 290153). 

or perhaps (be wary of wordwrap with the following one-liner)
[http://sudan.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=765195](http://sudan.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=765195)

anyway, the upgrade method works if you have the time and patience.  I'd be curious to know how many hours your download took.

---

### Post by gildenman on 2008-12-18
I have a similar problem with failed 8.10 installs and have registered too just for this.
I have tried 8.10 for 3 installs and all have failed. All CDs were verified after being written.

1. Install under VMware workstation 6.5.1 from a .iso file.
After 1st ubuntu logo, a few service startup messages, then screen blanks to 'Loading please wait' and nothing else. Tried vesa, noapic, noacpi.
  Eventually resorted to a preinstalled .vmx image of 8.10 from the net.

2. Install on Toshiba laptop. Same problem as above. Not resolved it yet. I'm sure from my other experiences that 8.04.1 will install without problems.

3. P4 PC which 8.04 worked flawlessly on. This time after the 1st ubuntu logo, screen blanks and hangs with flashing cursor in top left. Tried vesa, noacpi, noapic. Nothing works.
Burnt 8.04.1 onto the same CDRW and installed 1st time.

3 failures out of 3.
Something in 8.10 is broken.
Any ideas?
Cheers.

---

### Post by Efros on 2008-12-18
> **bswanboat said:**
> I too am having the same issue. The cd to install 8.10 just gets to the 'busybox' and initramfs. I have tried several different combinations under the F4 and F6 options. 8.04 installs without out issues. I am trying the upgrade method now. Is it just the xorg.config file?

Suggestions would be appreciated!
Bill

I found that my DVD burner didn't play nice with the install CD when on an IDE interface on its own, played well when slave to an IDE HD but not otherwise. As I was replacing a smaller IDE drive with a large SATA drive This didn't help, I eventually solved this "busybox/initramfs" issue by temporarily connecting an old CD drive I had lying around and booting the Live CD from that. Did what I had to do (Grub install on new cloned drive), and then reconnected the problematic DVD burner, now all working well. Plus I can now take the old IDE HD and connect it up to my grandsons PS2, saves wear and tear on PS2 disks when in the hands of a 6 year old.

---

### Post by gildenman on 2008-12-18
> **gildenman said:**
> 
3. P4 PC which 8.04 worked flawlessly on. This time after the 1st ubuntu logo, screen blanks and hangs with flashing cursor in top left. Tried vesa, noacpi, noapic. Nothing works.
Burnt 8.04.1 onto the same CDRW and installed 1st time.


Just burnt a Xubuntu 8.10 onto same CDRW and it installs perfectly on this PC.
Something in Ubuntu 8.10 is broken.
Cheers.

---

### Post by ivanhoe75 on 2008-12-19
8.10 has BBIIGG problems with nvidia video cards. I broke 6(six)
times system upgrading ubuntu. Problem solving is somewhere here but I didnt try it yet. Who knows, may be kde will work, who knows?

---

### Post by DAE51D on 2009-02-08
*sigh* I'm having this same exact issue. I've burned 5 CDs, a DVD and even tried the USB flash drive way. All of them fail out with some Buffer I/O sr0 nonsense. I've been trying this from 3pm till 8pm now... 5 HOURS of my life wasted on just trying to get a basic install going. Not to mention all the configuration and setup needed after this. UGH! WTF!?

I'm trying to install the server version on a brand new (bought today) Intel DG31PR mobo, 650GB SATA drive, 4GB RAM, Q8200 CPU.

This is bull$hit! The 8.04 CD loads up and works like a champ. Why should 8.10 be WORSE?!

Installing 8.04 took about 15 minutes from start to CLI prompt. Then I ran this: [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading)

...it's churning away now, but I'm optimistic as at least it's booted into my own HD currently and seems to be running fine (as 8.04 that is). We'll see if the upgrade fsck's me...

So not happy.

oh, and for what it's worth, I tried the same 5 CD's, DVD and USB all on my Dell i9300 notebook and they failed there too the same way. However the CDs and DVD all worked perfectly on my Dell i8200 notebook (it can't boot from USB)!! All CD's/DVD/.iso MD5 just fine.

---

