---
title: "9.10 Beta Window Manager Issue"
date: 2009-10-25
forum: New to Ubuntu
---

### Post by Redmage913 on 2009-10-25
Greetings,

I'm having problems with my window manager, I believe.  The computer started up with a disk check while loading Xubuntu 9.10 Beta, and when I logged in, the top taskbar was missing and I didn't have any window settings available (minimize, maximize, etc.).  Then I randomly was logged out and had to log back in again. Now both taskbars are missing.

The good thing is that I still have the desktop right-click menu available, so I can get into all available settings, etc. easily.

Please help! This is the first issue I've had with the new beta, and I'm enough of a n00b that I have no idea what to do about this.

Thanks,

--Red

---

### Post by winotree on 2009-10-25
> ....the top taskbar was missing and I didn't have any window settings available (minimize, maximize, etc.)....  This also happened to me -- I used a daily-build [http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/) and that solved that.  ;)

EDIT - added the quote box

---

### Post by Redmage913 on 2009-10-25
I installed the latest updates and restarted the computer, and it seemed to have fixed itself.

Weird thing, though.

Thanks for your input!

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
> **Redmage913 said:**
> I installed the latest updates and restarted the computer, and it seemed to have fixed itself.

Weird thing, though.

Thanks for your input!
Welcome to the FUN world of pre-release testing.  If you get in earlier it is a lot more exciting.

---

### Post by Redmage913 on 2009-10-26
Here's a fun thing for someone to digest....

I added a second user on this computer to find that the window manager is completely broken on it.  The original user's window manager works fine, though.

Any ideas?

I'm logged into the broken user right now. I can switch to/from easily if that's required. Both are administrator accounts, so hopefully that makes things easier.

---

