---
title: "64 or 32 bit?"
date: 2011-12-24
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by khaj_vah on 2011-12-24
Hello everybody,

I am planning to get a laptop and dual boot windows 7 and ubuntu. The problem is that i cant decide to get 32 or 64 bit. Please, tell me what is the difference between them and what will be better for me.
I will use it for university programming and for general use. I will use windows only for some programs which does not have linux alternatives.

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-24
Look here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit)

---

### Post by khaj_vah on 2011-12-24
> **BC59 said:**
> Look here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit)

Thanks for help, seems 64 bit is better choice. I just was afraid that i cant use some important programs under 64 but if it is possible to use them i will surely go for 64 bit. 
one more time THANKS FOR HELP (i was about to install 32 one)

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-24
No way. If your computer supports 64bits architecture you have to install Ubuntu 64bits. That was an old problem with 32bits but now is totally solved.

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-12-24
Moved to Recurring.

---

### Post by weasel fierce on 2011-12-27
In this day and age, I can't think of many reasons to use 32 bit, if your hardware is 64

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-12-28
> **khaj_vah said:**
> Thanks for help, seems 64 bit is better choice. I just was afraid that i cant use some important programs under 64 but if it is possible to use them i will surely go for 64 bit.

Linux software is distributed as source code. The source code can be compiled not only for 32-bit x86 and 64-bit x86, but also for all sorts of different CPUs that work very differently internally. When it can compile for eleven different CPU instruction sets, it can compile for two CPU instruction sets that are very nearly the same!

There are a few exceptions; proprietary software is still usually 32-bit, Wine is still 32-bit because it runs 32-bit Windows software, and programs written in Assembly (such as ZSNES) would need major effort to port. But Ubuntu's "multiarch" support is good these days and you'll never notice any problems. Proprietary software works on 64-bit. Wine works. ZSNES isn't in the repositories on 64-bit.

This isn't 2005 :-)

Just letting you know all this stuff so you can inform others. On Linux at least, 64-bit is a first-class citizen.

---

