---
title: "64 or 32?"
date: 2012-01-12
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by jdm480 on 2012-01-12
I know this may sound like a really stupid question, but I just don't remember there being a 64 bit Ubuntu last time I used it.. so right now I'm using Win 7 Pro 64 bit, (3.0 Ghz Intel Core 2 Duo, 3GB RAM) and when I went to download Ubuntu it gave me the choice of 32bit and 64bit...  I know Linux and Windows are different... but should I download the 32 bit, or the 64? Added my specs just incase they were needed.

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-01-12
I'd say if you have a 64 bit capable machine and you obviously have, then 64 bit is the way to go.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2012-01-12
If you have a 64 bit processor, then 64 bit definitely is the way to go. I remember reading somewhere that 64 bit machines work up to 80% faster on select processing tasks, although I can't remember where.
Also, 64 bit Linux is much better than it used to be. You won't lose anything by choosing 64 bit.

---

### Post by jdm480 on 2012-01-12
Alright, thanks.
Sorry for the silly question.

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2012-01-12
Just to add weight... 64bit, all the way.

> **jdm480 said:**
> Sorry for the silly question.

There are no silly questions the first time,  that's why the forum is here!

---

### Post by fragos on 2012-01-12
I've heard that for 12.04, 64 bit will be the default. In the past 64 bit issues only came with particular packages like flash. That is why I've been using only 32 bit versions. I plan to be going 64 bit with 12.04.

---

### Post by pr3zident on 2012-01-12
> **fragos said:**
> I've heard that for 12.04, 64 bit will be the default. In the past 64 bit issues only came with particular packages like flash. That is why I've been using only 32 bit versions. I plan to be going 64 bit with 12.04.

Good advice people i just asked this questions might in the cafe

---

### Post by JimBuntu on 2012-01-18
So, I'm sure I already know the answer to this question...

The 64bit version says it's for AMD64. No where does it say intel. I'm running a CORE i7... The 64bit Ubu will still work right? If so, why not list intel 64bit on the downloads page?

---

### Post by epic.mint on 2012-01-18
i'm usung 64bit on my intel celeron dualcore 1.5ghz and it works flawlessly go with amd64
Edit: i guess it says AMD64 because they were first or that they set the standard.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-01-18
Hi, yes it still works and for why intel is not listed I am sure the higher ups have there reasons, or they may have not given it any thought at all.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-01-18
> **JimBuntu said:**
> So, I'm sure I already know the answer to this question...
 
The 64bit version says it's for AMD64. No where does it say intel. I'm running a CORE i7... The 64bit Ubu will still work right? If so, why not list intel 64bit on the downloads page?
 
it says AMD64, because AMD came up with the 64bit processors first and got the naming right. :P
 
Intel got the i386, i486, i586...well the 32bit ones...
 
Anyway just as AMD64bit works on intel 64 bit porcessor, the 32 bit i386 works on AMD processors.
 
If you have 64 bit processor you can use 64bit or 32 bit. if you have 32 bit processor then the only choice is 32 bit. I think most applications are still 32bit anyway. But some are 64 bit and for those 64 bit version should give more boots.

---

### Post by ptsubin on 2012-01-18
I used to build android gingerbread source as part of development work which required Ubuntu 64 bit. So when I installed 11.10 I chose 64 bit version. I had issues like flashplayer not exiting the full screen in browser, playing flash movies causing the browser to hang etc. I am not sure if the issue was with Firefox (I used 9) or with ubuntu or with my hardware which is a dell Inspiron 1525. Anyway now I am running the 32 bit version and things are going very smooth.

---

### Post by JonUK76 on 2012-01-18
> **JimBuntu said:**
> So, I'm sure I already know the answer to this question...

The 64bit version says it's for AMD64. No where does it say intel. I'm running a CORE i7... The 64bit Ubu will still work right? If so, why not list intel 64bit on the downloads page?

I prefer x86-64 as I think it causes less confusion than AMD64, but the reason for the AMD64 name is that AMD created the 64 bit extensions for x86 processors. Intel later adopted the standard (in it's "Prescott" P4 chip and later).  So any 64 bit x86 Intel chip (anything recent basically) will run AMD64 software.

Intel's own 64 bit architecture is IA64 (Itanium), which was at one time was intended to be a replacement for x86 processors, but it never really took off.

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2012-01-18
> **ptsubin said:**
> I used to build android gingerbread source as part of development work which required Ubuntu 64 bit. So when I installed 11.10 I chose 64 bit version. I had issues like flashplayer not exiting the full screen in browser, playing flash movies causing the browser to hang etc. I am not sure if the issue was with Firefox (I used 9) or with ubuntu or with my hardware which is a dell Inspiron 1525. Anyway now I am running the 32 bit version and things are going very smooth.


Using Ubuntu 11.10 64bit,  I don't experience such issues. I'm using chromium, however, so this may be a difference?

---

### Post by JimBuntu on 2012-01-18
Thanks everyone for the replies. There must be a reason for the "AMD" in the 64bit description. They should just leave the trade names out of it so as to not confuse the average Joe. Could just say, "Choose 64bit if you have a 64bit processor". I've been using Ubuntu for years now but have always wondered about this.

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2012-01-19
As everyone said, go to 64-bit OS if you have 64-bit processor.

I recommend to use [Flash-Aid]("https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/flash-aid/") to install Flash Player in Ubuntu Linux 64-bit.

---

