---
title: "Linuxnews.com sposored by Gulp Micro$oft...aaaarrrgghh!"
date: 2007-11-27
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by hogwartsnigel on 2007-11-27
Just browsing came across Linuxnews.com and found a sponsored by Micro$oft ad with the following ....

"Get the facts you need to make the choice between Windows and Linux. Click on the case study of your choice to download:
Swiss Air Case Study: Airline's Online Booking is Online 99.9% of the Time
The most profitable sales channel for Swiss International Air Lines (as it is at many airlines) is its e-commerce Web site. Thanks to a migration from Linux technologies to Microsoft. Windows Server. 2003 with Internet Information Services 6.0, the Microsoft .NET Framework, and the Microsoft server product portfolio, agility, as measured by the frequency of software updates to meet business requirements, is up 400 percent. Responsiveness on the site is up 300 percent, and unplanned downtime is cut 90 percent. Read more >>
NCsoft Supports Massive Number of Simultaneous Connections
When NCsoft, an online game provider with a global network, upgraded its popular online game Lineage II, it needed a server computer platform that would sustain hundreds of thousands of user connections to a huge virtual fantasy world. NCsoft chose Windows Server. 2003 R2 Enterprise x64 Edition over Linux. As a result, it can offer hundreds of thousands of users uninterrupted access, and can easily find support for its computing environment and developer talent for its products. Read more >>
Linux vs. Microsoft Case Study: Continental AG
Continental AG had out-of-date and disparate client-server infrastructure that needed groupwide standardization. Learn how and why Continental chose their platform and how the new system architecture has considerably reduced IT costs. Read more >>
Increasing Performance with .NET Framework Case Study: London Stock Exchange
Roughly 40 % of the Exchange's revenues are generated by the sale of real-time information about stock prices. Using the Microsoft® .NET Framework in Windows Server® 2003 and the Microsoft SQL Server™ 2000 database, the new Infolect® system has been built to achieve unprecedented levels of performance, availability, and business agility. Read more >> "

How can this be that MS (a different form of disease can 1)advertise on Linux News. 2) be allowed to publish this particular ad. in this context.....
Does Linuxnews run as a server for MS????

Anyone

---

### Post by erfahren on 2007-11-27
so M$ is throwing away money advertising on a site frequented by Linux users. I think it's more funny than anything else.

I think some of you guys read to much into some of this stuff.

---

### Post by -grubby on 2007-11-27
It' s a Linux site! DO you really think that they would even think of getting windows server?

---

### Post by hogwartsnigel on 2007-11-27
I guess it is kinda funny, but still a Linux news site with a sponsored window spewing M$ propoganda. I got there browsing Linux news and got that.
I understand the argument "well if uncle Bill wants to spend his $, who are we but.."
Maybe I am over reacting. Of course no one will be buying M$ server software based on this but the casually curious potential Linux user may find it a stumbler.
Maybe I am over reacting.....LOL

Just thought it a little weird.

Actually perhaps it is a real positive, maybe it is conformation of the threat of Linux realisation that has caused it???

Then again maybe I'm taking it too serious.....yeh your right, c'mon Bill give it your best shot.

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2007-11-27
Not to belittle the topic, but this has been discussed and rediscussed so many times that it really belongs in ... Recurring Discussions! :)

---

