---
title: "[13.10] Move the unity launcher on bottom"
date: 2014-01-25
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by peyo2 on 2014-01-25
Hello,

I know, this has been asked so much times but I can not believe/accept that there is still no way to move the darn launcher to the bottom of the screen, on the left it looks unnatural, confusing and all in all a mess. So here it goes for the millionth time:

How can I move the unity launcher to the bottom of the screen?

Few notes:
1. I don't want to use docky, cairo or whatever third party addon.
2. I don't want to use cinnamon, mate or whatever other DE that looks like Windows in the mid 90" (yeah I said it)
3. I don't care about the overall design goals

So please tell me with all the fuzz about how customizable ubuntu is as oposed to Windows, why I can't do a fairly simple task like this, I installed Ubuntu, I liked it, after you turn off all the tracking things unity dash is fairly fast, I can lookover the lack of quality software (yeah I said it), the weird drivers, having to "oh its easy just alt+ctrl+t and sudo apt-get bla bla bla" for even simplest things but I cannot look past a simple thing that is the darn unity launcher stuck on the left

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2014-01-25
I think there used to be a 3rd party thing that did it a few versions back but I've not seen it mentioned in a while. Other than making your own unity, I'm fairly certain you can't.

---

### Post by peyo2 on 2014-01-25
> **nothingspecial said:**
> I think there used to be a 3rd party thing that did it a few versions back but I've not seen it mentioned in a while. Other than making your own unity, I'm fairly certain you can't.

Yeah there used to be a compiz plugin which did that but it doesn't work since v. 12.10 from what I've read. (I don't even know what compiz is so excuse my terminology in case I stated it wrong)

Isn't there some config file which controls the position of the launcher, I mean how hard can it be. It seems like most of the people in the community who are capable or at least care enough to do this have dropped unity altogether

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2014-01-25
> **peyo2 said:**
> Yeah there used to be a compiz plugin which did that but it doesn't work since v. 12.10 from what I've read. (I don't even know what compiz is so excuse my terminology in case I stated it wrong)

Isn't there some config file which controls the position of the launcher, **I mean how hard can it be**. It seems like most of the people in the community who are capable or at least care enough to do this have dropped unity altogether
Just go ahead and do it.

---

### Post by peyo2 on 2014-01-25
> **vasa1 said:**
> Just go ahead and do it.

Darn I saw this coming the second I hit the submit button... wiseguy =D>

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-01-25
unityshell-rotated was never ported to any version but 11.10.

I guess if you have time you could look at it's design and see if you can apply what it tried to do to newer versions of Ubuntu.

Here
[https://launchpad.net/~paullo612/+archive/unityshell-rotated/+packages](https://launchpad.net/~paullo612/+archive/unityshell-rotated/+packages)

Note, I would expect breakage.

---

### Post by j.elliott on 2014-01-25
I agree. Simply allowing the launcher to be moved by a preference setting to the bottom/centered or right of the screen would appease more people than are staunchly opposed to someone daring to break from convention and moving the panel.

Additionally I'd like to see the menu from apps moved to the top-screen bar, this would free up some screen real-estate and improve function while also improving the user-experience and design efficiency.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-01-25
There used to be a setting in Compiz Configuration Settings Manager (CCSM) that was supposed to move the Launcher to a different screen edge but it did not work and was never made to work.

Compiz is the window manager/compositor that is presently used in Ubuntu. Unity is a plugin to Compiz but things are changing. Between the release of Ubuntu 14.04 and the release of Ubuntu 15.04 Ubuntu will have a new compositor called Mir. It will replace XServer, LightDM and Compiz. It is not yet known what kind of special effects will be available under Mir. Special effects will no doubt depend on community developers doing the work.

Moving the Launcher to another screen edge does not comply with the design decisions being made for Ubuntu. Under the proposed convergence strategy those other screen edges will be used by the Ubuntu Touch applications that will then be available for use on the Ubuntu desktop platform.

Lets us accept the fact that Ubuntu was never intended to be a distribution for those who want to be able to endlessly customise the desktop. Limited customisation is a fact of life with Ubuntu. And many people are happy with Ubuntu being like that. I am.

Regards.

---

### Post by j.elliott on 2014-01-25
I think that this is one of those things that the people who have the ability to make the changes and the people who want a better experience clash.  The people who want a better experience cannot make the modifications themselves and are at the mercy of those who oppose it for what seems to be no reason other than just to oppose it.

This is similar to the Docky team refusing to allow their Docky branded icon to be removed (without a lot of work) from their launcher application (docky), even though its the single most requested feature for that particular application.

The Unity Launcher being movable isn't as important to me as the menu bar on the top bar, but I think allowing it to be moved with a preference setting somewhere isn't an outrageous request.

Considering this is ultimately up to those who can make changes to make changes, it is just another one of those large-volume-requests that will never be.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2014-01-25
I thought this would be in Recurring by now :)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-01-25
> [COLOR=#000000]Considering this is ultimately up to those who can make changes to make changes, it is just another one of those large-volume-requests that will never be.[/COLOR]

But that's the thing.
It isn't a large volume request.

it's a loud volume request.

The few who want it, make a lot of noise.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-01-25
> **vasa1 said:**
> I thought this would be in Recurring by now :)

Guess what?

---

### Post by peyo2 on 2014-01-26
> **deadflowr said:**
> But that's the thing.
It isn't a large volume request.

it's a loud volume request.

The few who want it, make a lot of noise.

That might be true. The thing is moving the launcher is important for users new to Ubuntu (the loud ones), I consider myself objective and open minded, I'm not a fanboy or something but from my experience as a new user the first thing I did in Ubuntu was a google search for how to move the launcher. The current userbase of Ubuntu is mostly tech savvy users who in most cases simply don't care about the visual experience and the aesthetics of the OS, if they are bothered by the launcher they simply change DE, but that is not true for the casual users and new "converts". On the other hand those who are used to the fairly well designed Windows and OS X won't have the incentive to move to Ubuntu and Ubuntu should cater to those "mainstream" masses if it wants to exit the 1% market share and being categorized in the group of "Others" and "Linux"

**Ubuntu is not that powerful to dictate new design trends** and frankly is not that well designed to over shadow Windows or OS X UX.

I understand and respect the decision to create unified experience across devices. But don't let your new experiments brake the already proven product that got Ubuntu where it is.

---

### Post by mastudebaker on 2014-02-07
I have been using stock Ubuntu for the last 6 months.  Before that, Xubuntu for a couple of years.  Trying to get use to Unity on the left but it still annoys me.

Why should I have to get use to it?  Why can't I just move it?  Windows allows me to move the task bar to any corner.

Why do I have to have the "Apple" style menu command in the top bar?  This makes no sense to me unless you run everything at full screen.  Why do I have to have the "Apple" style close/min/max buttons on the left?  I believe you are forced to do it now with 13.10???  Please don't ever force to use those god awful Ubuntu scrollbars...  

These are some of the reasons why I don't have a MBP - cause the UI annoys me.  With Ubuntu's trend, I may eventually just bite the bullet and move to a MBP.  


All that complaining aside - I really do enjoy Ubuntu and it's sweet on my Dell Sputnik laptop.  No worries about drivers.  As it should be..

---

### Post by bug67 on 2014-02-19
I had a spare laptop that I decided to install vanilla Ubuntu on with the launch of Saucy.  For the first time trying out Unity, I kinda like the improvements that have been made since its inception.  However, I moved to xfce (Xubuntu) on all my other *serious* machines.  Unity, to me, feels like an experiment.  Therefore, that is what it has been relegated to in my world.

There are a few things I really like about Unity.  I like being able to right click on a launcher icon to end a program.  I like the unified menus.  I like typing in the first few letters of the app I'm looking for.  As always, it is theme-able so, I *can* customize it.   

Things I don't like are the inability to move the damn launcher.  It makes sense to have everything on the left side of the screen...if everything *was* on the left side of the screen.  But the log-out/shut-down button is on the far right side of the screen!  And, that can't be moved either!  I also like to see all the apps on my machine in one place.  Now, I realize this is possible with Unity but, the way one has to click endlessly through the dash to see everything and then, it doesn't remember the search parameters the next time, is ridiculous.  Problem solved with a plug-in called [ClassicMenu-Indicator]("http://www.florian-diesch.de/software/classicmenu-indicator/").  But, I shouldn't need a plug-in.

Anyhow, Xubuntu has solved all my non-configurability woes so, that's where I plan to call home for the foreseeable future.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-02-19
@bug67: what i do, is put all my favorites and most used apps on the Unity Launcher (dock) for quick 1 click access and use the "dash search" only to locate things i don't use often (like the terminal for example or the package manager)...Used like that, it's pretty simple and straight forward to use...

And i autohide the launcher of course, and for my 17" laptop screen reduce the pixel size of the icons to 38 pixels...makes it much easier and faster to scan through my apps on the launcher...
I agree that it would be nice to have the option of moving the launcher to the bottom, although i am fine with it as it is...

Interesting thing is my friend who has a Mac moved his Mac dock to the left side like Unity is located...i asked him why?  he said: it makes more sense to have it over there... :D

---

### Post by bug67 on 2014-02-19
craig10x, Yes, I know how to add and remove my most frequent stuff to the Unity launcher.  I know *how* to use Unity, I just don't particularly like to.  This is why I gravitated to Xubuntu (xfce).  It reminded me of my Mac.  And, in my opinion, *nothing* belongs on the left side of the screen.  [-(  :p

As you can see from the screen shots, the similarities between my Mac OS and LinuxMint xfce (running in VB.  I have Xubuntu on my machines at home.  But, you get the picture) are striking:

[IMG]http://bug67.smugmug.com/Computers/Linux/Linux-Mint/i-RTn7LsN/0/O/MintXFCE.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://bug67.smugmug.com/Computers/Apple/i-hV2RSpD/0/O/MacDT.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-02-19
> **bug67 said:**
>  in my opinion, *nothing* belongs on the left side of the screen.  [-(  :p


Except cluttered menus
:lolflag:

---

### Post by bug67 on 2014-02-19
Hey, I resemble that remark!  :lolflag:

At least I can *find* everything without endless clicking and filtering and typing and...](*,)

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2014-03-03
> **grahammechanical said:**
> There used to be a setting in Compiz Configuration Settings Manager (CCSM) that was supposed to move the Launcher to a different screen edge but it did not work and was never made to work.

Compiz is the window manager/compositor that is presently used in Ubuntu. Unity is a plugin to Compiz but things are changing. Between the release of Ubuntu 14.04 and the release of Ubuntu 15.04 Ubuntu will have a new compositor called Mir. It will replace XServer, LightDM and Compiz. It is not yet known what kind of special effects will be available under Mir. Special effects will no doubt depend on community developers doing the work.

Moving the Launcher to another screen edge does not comply with the design decisions being made for Ubuntu. Under the proposed convergence strategy those other screen edges will be used by the Ubuntu Touch applications that will then be available for use on the Ubuntu desktop platform.

Lets us accept the fact that Ubuntu was never intended to be a distribution for those who want to be able to endlessly customise the desktop. Limited customisation is a fact of life with Ubuntu. And many people are happy with Ubuntu being like that. I am.

Regards.
:confused::confused:

Wait what?

You are confusing the current "you will like what we give you" attitude of Canonical with some overarching philosophy of Ubuntu in general. .

"Limited customization is a fact of life with Ubuntu."

I recall hearing or being exposed to no such addage throughout my former years with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2014-03-03
> **mastudebaker said:**
> I have been using stock Ubuntu for the last 6 months.  Before that, Xubuntu for a couple of years.  Trying to get use to Unity on the left but it still annoys me.

Why should I have to get use to it?  Why can't I just move it?  Windows allows me to move the task bar to any corner.

Why do I have to have the "Apple" style menu command in the top bar?  This makes no sense to me unless you run everything at full screen.  Why do I have to have the "Apple" style close/min/max buttons on the left?  I believe you are forced to do it now with 13.10???  Please don't ever force to use those god awful Ubuntu scrollbars...  

These are some of the reasons why I don't have a MBP - cause the UI annoys me.  With Ubuntu's trend, I may eventually just bite the bullet and move to a MBP.  


All that complaining aside - I really do enjoy Ubuntu and it's sweet on my Dell Sputnik laptop.  No worries about drivers.  As it should be..

Because thats what Canonical says. They know whats best for you. Stop complaining and do what you are told. /sarcasm

Before you ditch Linux for an even more walled approach, give XFCE, KDE, or Enlightenment a shot. All three are great in different ways. I tried the latest Enlightenment a few days ago and was shocked how it looked.

I would suggest Openbox like I use, but its not about pretty or flash AT ALL.

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-03-03
> **GSF1200S said:**
> Because thats what Canonical says. They know whats best for you. Stop complaining and do what you are told. /sarcasm

Before you ditch Linux for an even more walled approach, give XFCE, KDE, or Enlightenment a shot. All three are great in different ways. I tried the latest Enlightenment a few days ago and was shocked how it looked.

I would suggest Openbox like I use, but its not about pretty or flash AT ALL.

Absolutely detested E17 ! But reading this wants to give it a try again, coz one thing E17 was, it was fast.! 

Any major changes to expect in latest Enlightment?

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2014-03-05
> **bhattabhishek said:**
> Absolutely detested E17 ! But reading this wants to give it a try again, coz one thing E17 was, it was fast.! 

Any major changes to expect in latest Enlightment?

Its been a long time since I used E17, but it has nowhere near the visual polish as the latest enlightenment git. Why did you detest it? If its because its too flashy, then you still wont like it ;)

Beware the latest E is still in an alpha state, so it wont be the most stable. Ive never tried e18, so that might be the best bet.

The main reason I tried the latest E is because it will have Wayland support when that takes over X. Of course, I guess im supposed to talk about Mir here. Its not Wayland 100% yet though...

If you want fast, try Openbox or Fluxbox with stuff bolted onto it. Doesnt get much faster...

---

### Post by phinn on 2014-04-22
Returning to Ubuntu 14.04 after a couple year hiatus. After a couple days of Unity I gotta say it's not bad. I really like the persistent task bar and how the same launch icon is the running program (like Windows 7 or newer)...

But now I'm trying to simply move the bar to the bottom of the screen which I like a lot better. HOW DO YOU DO THIS?  This is Linux, the most customization OS there is and I still can't figure it out. I would think you simply click+drag then lock it, or in the Unity options.  I also installed Compiz settings and don't see it there either.

---

### Post by r_avital on 2014-04-23
> **deadflowr said:**
> But that's the thing.
It isn't a large volume request.

it's a loud volume request.

The few who want it, make a lot of noise.

Wait a second, please... What???

So Canonical has a new "religion" about the left side of the screen -- MY screen -- and asking for anything else is heresy?

Guess what?

The first inviolate principle of Linux is that it is expected to be fully customizable by the end user.  How's that for "religion?"  If nothing else, it means that Canonical, with its Unity "plans for the left side," are violating a basic principle of Linux.  It is supposed to be fully customizable by the end-user, even .00000001% of them.  Period.

Of course, no one owes the end-user any kind of gui tools to make configuration and customization easy, let the user dive into the code and do it himself.  Quite right.  Nothing would justify such a massive investment in time and effort on Canonical's part.

But this is entirely different.  It's not as if the tools never existed, they were all there: dconf-editor, CCSM, gsettings, you name it.  And they're still there.  But Canonical has disabled any effect they might have on anything having to do with the sacrosanct "left side."  Window buttons "min/max/close" for instance -- sure the entries are still in dconf-editor, you can modify the values, but the event is intercepted by the Unity code and nullified.

Windows decorations?  I'm typing this on 13.04 with CCSM having the Gnome-Compatibility plugin, AND the Unity plugin, AND the Windows Decorations plugin enabled.  All three.  But today, upgrading on a different machine from 13.10 to 14.04-LTS, the Unity plugin conflicts with the other two.  So Canonical has gone out of its way, [COLOR=#ff0000]_***invested time and effort, not to add something, but to disable something that already existed.***_[/COLOR]  To enforce "my way or the highway."  That's quite the opposite of bending over backwards to allow silly end-users to make their silly customizations, isn't it?

Besides, on what basis did you take it upon yourself to determine that those who "make all the noise" are "just a few?"  That "it's not a large volume request?"  Where did you get your figures?  Do you have figures?  Has a study ever been done?  Or did you get your figures from HHS?

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-04-23
@phinn: you can't move the unity launcher (dock)...it has to stay on the left...most of us have gotten use to it there and don't really mind that much but yeah, They feel it must be on the left as that is how it will be across all devices (i guess that is why it is called unity...LOL)...

Interesting note: my mac using friend can put his dock anywhere he wants (default is bottom of course) and he has his mac dock on the left (like unity) and i asked him way...he answered "It just seems to make more sense" :)

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-23
> **r_avital said:**
> 

The first inviolate principle of Linux is that it is expected to be fully customizable by the end user.  


Actually no. The first inviolate principle of Linux is that if you can code you can customize anything because source code is open. You can even build the oS from scratch, there was a ppa which provided a patched Unity where you could move the dock but the developer has dropped it. So you do have freedom if you know the stuffs and don't mind spending time on it. If you get a packaged deal from a distro there is no principle that the DE has to be infinitely customizable.

I happen to be think that the dock should be movable (though I  kind of like the way it is now), so it is not that I am not sympathetic to your expectation, but I just can't agree with your argument.

---

### Post by r_avital on 2014-04-23
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Actually no. The first inviolate principle of Linux is that if you can code you can customize anything because source code is open.

I agree, of course.  And respectfully, Ibelieve you misunderstand.  You are correct, which is exactly why I said: 

"Of course, no one owes the end-user any kind of gui tools to make  configuration and customization easy, let the user dive into the code  and do it himself.  Quite right."

But in the case of min/max/close buttons, we're not talking about a patch on a ppa that was dropped by developers.  A good example of a great tool that was abandoned for such reasons would be klamav.

Again, what happened (in the example of min/max/close buttons on the left) is the exact opposite.  The customization tools already existed and still do.  Canonical simply wilfully, intentionally, invested coding time and effort to neutralize them.  Wilfully and intentionally invested time in having existing, working, ccsm plugins that used to solve the problem now raise conflicts with each other.

So for me, the Unity dock knows what it can go do with itself, and I'll be the happy primitive, unsophisticated, knuckle-dragging, mouth-breathing, sister-loving rube using MATE.

I still would love to hear, though, what evidence there is that this is "only" the problem of a "loud" minority.  That "my way or the highway" attitude touches on a lot of aspects of Trusty, and is the source of that much discontent.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-04-23
> I still would love to hear, though, what evidence there is that this is  "only" the problem of a "loud" minority.  That "my way or the highway"  attitude touches on a lot of aspects of Trusty, and is the source of  that much discontent. 				

There are roughly 20 million Ubuntu users worldwide, yet you only see unity complaints by somewhere between several hundred and a couple thousand, at best.

I never said it is only a problem for them, only that those who have voiced about it are a very small minority in the overall scheme of things.

When those voices reach a couple hundred thousand, or a couple million, then Canonical will take a step back and listen.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-04-23
> **deadflowr said:**
> There are roughly 20 million Ubuntu users worldwide

And roughly just about as many ways to customize a desktop

---

### Post by r_avital on 2014-04-23
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> And roughly just about as many ways to customize a desktop

Yep.  So let's all get behind the one that annoys the most people! :D

---

### Post by r_avital on 2014-04-23
> **deadflowr said:**
> There are roughly 20 million Ubuntu users worldwide, yet you only see unity complaints by somewhere between several hundred and a couple thousand, at best.

I understand.  So, taking your low estimate, what exactly is it that would so horribly and so negatively impact the user-experience of 19,999,800 Ubuntu users?  Dear Lord!  Two Hundred people want a movable launcher and buttons on the right! Oh, the Humanity!  The Humanity!

Seriously, what would they lose?

I'll take your estimate for the people who want a movable launcher.  I'll bet the farm that a whole lot more than 2,000 users swear at Canonical with every upgrade that eliminates their preference for buttons on the right of a window-frame as they have to re-do it.  Just as they did when they had to re-do all their preferences with every new version of Windows.  What immensely valuable and precious treasure would have been denied those millions if a few thousand of us had the option? **Especiall**y when keeping the ability to make the change in, say, dconf-editor **would have cost nothing, and in fact it cost them more work to disable it altogether?  **Who would have died such a horrible death?  How much food would have been taken out of who's plate?

---

### Post by Selenious on 2014-04-26
I'm on 14.04 and support this idea!
Ubuntu is nice OS, but person who decided to set Unity on the left side is idiot.

---

### Post by smokin420papi on 2014-05-12
> **Selenious said:**
> I'm on 14.04 and support this idea!
Ubuntu is nice OS, but person who decided to set Unity on the left side is idiot.

i agree i to have ubuntu 14.04 and it sucks that i cant move the unity launcher to the bottom ubuntu is violating that right for linux to be fully custamizable excuse my spelling but you know what i mean anybody should be able to move it to where ever they wish not just locked to the left side i would like to have mine on the bottom left corner shaped like a L or a circle with autohide feature on and tiles in the dash like windows 8...... A Cnn news feed would be nice to have in the dash i would like to have that to keep me posted on whats going on in the world lol and a craigslist app that takes out flagged posts so the real ads are left behind ubuntu makes it hard to make the switch from windows to linux and like proper driver configuration some wont work like my bluetooth Wine should be on ubuntu permantly and should allow people to install any driver for any device and it would make ubuntu more populer so people can make the switch to it i love linux not just because its free but because i can customize it to my liking

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-05-12
While it might be nice to be able to move the unity launcher to different places, ubuntu isn't violating any right for linux to be fully customizable...Open Source doesn't mean that the designer of a linux distro is COMPELLED to make it so you can do anything you want in modifying the way he has it set up...they have the freedom to set it up however they want and offering options to make modifications to the default is purely up to the one who designs it, not the user of it...

---

### Post by bryan26 on 2014-08-14
I used Mac from 1990 to 1998, and Windows since then.

Disappointed with the route Microsoft took with Windows 8 (I still use Win7), I gave Ubuntu Unity a go last year. I was extremely impressed with the ease of install for a total noob like me, as well as the slick user interface.

However, the Unity launcher on the left was a total dealbreaker for me. It's seriously distracting trying to read lines of text with my eyes (in a full screen browser or full screen word processor document), and constantly having this column of icons at the left of the screen every time I try to read a new line of text. It was killing my eyes. So I thought, no problem, I'll just move the launcher to the bottom. No can do, apparently. Even Apple and Microsoft let you move their dock/launcher thing to wherever you want it. I don't like the attitude of designers who deny the user the option to make such a basic interface customisation. I understand that it may be possible to change it by applying a hack and/or plugin of some kind... but I couldn't be bothered. So I am still using Windows 7.

Every now and then I check in to see if the Unity designers have relented on their poor interface decision but it seems they are very stubborn. So I continue to use Windows 7.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-08-14
@bryan26: why didn't you just set the unity launcher (dock) to auto-hide? It's easily done in the system settings...you can also shrink the icons, and even put the menus back in the windows if you prefer...it's all in the appearance section...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-08-14
If you don't like the default Ubuntu DE, why not try one of the other official flavours. You have a choice of Gnome-Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Lubuntu and Xubuntu. All have different desktop environments, one of which may suit you better than Unity. BTW, 13.10 EOL'd in July.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-08-19
Afternoon, all. 

I agree that individuals should be able to move and customize easily, to suit their needs. **BUT**; I must be **extremely **odd in the eyes of the vocal minority, because I actually **like **the launcher exactly where it is.....it's not that big a deal for me.

I'm also running (amongst other things) Kubuntu, Lubuntu and Xubuntu. They all have their good points, and their bad points.....but that's the nice thing about Linux; there are **SO **many distros out there, that it would be unusual for any individual **NOT **to be able to find something that suits their tastes.

I have a **real **job in understanding why so many people invest so much time and effort in getting snotty about it. It's not exactly a 'life-or-death' issue, is it?

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by bob104 on 2014-09-15
[COLOR=#000000]"Moving the Launcher to another screen edge does not comply with the design decisions being made for Ubuntu."  I have been using computes since 1981 (first one was an Osborne 1) so I am quite comfortable using commands and configuring OSs. Over time, I have used many, many OSs, including, DOS, Apple, Windows, Cisco, and many UNIX/Linux distros (I am a computer and network systems engineer). I have also written courses for Novell, Microsoft, and other computer OSs and programs. 

It may seem like a small point, but if Canonical really wants to establish a sustainable desktop market for Ubuntu, and, after all, Canonical is a for-profit company, paying attention to detail and supplying consumers with features they want will certainly help achieve this goal. It was by paying attention to detail, and to their users, and giving them (most users that is: not techies like many of us) what they wanted, whenever possible, that helped Apple and Microsoft grow their businesses.

A"small thing" like being able to move the Launcher to another screen edge may not seem important to techies but it may be important to many other, less technical users. 

We can love or hate the big guys, but it is because of them that computers have become part of everyday life. Saying things like "[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]And many people are happy with Ubuntu being like that." is not very progressive thinking. If Microsoft had thought that way we would probably still be using MS-DOS. 

I make these comments with all due respect for your opinion, and the other opinions expressed here. However, I am of the belief that we must constantly be improving and pushing the envelope and never be satisfied with the status quo. I believe that this is what makes working in IT exciting.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by zantsu on 2014-09-16
Unity Dock on the Left sucks.
Why Canonical does not let us move the bar?
It's simple...

---

### Post by Rich.T. on 2014-10-08
My 2¢:

I found this thread when trying to figure out how to [move or hide the top bar]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2201646&p=12910192#post12910192") (panel).

I want to be able to do this, as I need to be able to **ssh -X** into remote machines and view full-screen apps correctly.

It's not the end of the world, but it'd be nice. Shame you can't at the moment...

However, as [asked above]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2201646&p=13123174#post13123174") I'd just like to say:
> 
Why Canonical does not let us move the bar?
It's simple... 

The Cannonical Ubuntu team is *not very big* and the part that deal with the user interface is obviously *smaller still*. This team is putting all it's efforts into *totally* upgrading the desktop to Mir and as the UI works well for most people as it is (relatively speaking); it is wise that they leave well enough alone for the time being. Once their mammoth task is completed, they can begin work on these issues, as well as giving the green light to other developers to do the same. Until then, it's really not worth it.

Call it a feature freeze.

Rich.

---

