---
title: "Distro suggestion"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by Shiv4m on 2010-05-09
Hello, I own a **Dell** PC which is really old and I want to put a Linux distro on it. My PC isn't the greatest and it isn't pretty decent at all so I need something that would be able to run on its low specs:
```
     BIOS: Phoenix ROM BIOS PLUS Version 1.10 A07
          Processor: Intel(R) Celeron(R) CPU 2.20GHz
             Memory: 254MB RAM
```
I'm leaning towards Xubuntu but I want to hear what you guys think I should use.

---

### Post by waloshin on 2010-05-09
Small dam linux, Xubuntu.

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2010-05-09
Why not give [Puppy Linux]("http://www.puppylinux.com/download/") a try. I thought it ran great on one of my 'old' machines

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-05-09
> **waloshin said:**
> Small dam linux, Xubuntu.

[Damn Small Linux]("http://www.damnsmalllinux.org/")  :P

---

### Post by kellemes on 2010-05-09
Xubuntu is not a lightweigth distro.

[List of distro's for old computers as generated by Distrowatch.]("http://distrowatch.com/search.php?category=Old+computers&origin=All&basedon=All&desktop=All&architecture=All&status=Active")
And there are many more..

---

### Post by Gatemaze on 2010-05-09
+ Puppy linux maybe Ubuntu netbook remix (it runs on netbooks, but they have 1GB RAM), maybe Crunchbag

---

### Post by BrockStrongo on 2010-05-09
Damn Small Linux is just that, damn small, I have it running on a compaq armada with a p3 and 128mb ram. Unfortunately it doesn't seem to be supported anymore. 
Anti X is decent so is puppy linux, but if you are looking for something to do why not install arch linux and choose your own WM. Arch with XFCE or lxde should be pretty light.
Basically there are a lot of options.
Fire up virtual box and try some out, see what you like.

---

### Post by radiocognition on 2010-05-09
Damn small linux uses a Linux 2.4 kernel - its not as modern as most current distributions.  Also consider the package management issues : I believe that even though DSL is based on debian, the default installation does not have apt-get or dpkg installed just to save space.  I know you can upgrade and install these features, but it's not included by default.

If you are looking for a lightweight system that you can customize to run well on older hardware, why not try an netinstall of the base Debian system?  The stable releases are very robust and run on basically anything (my router is running Debian now).  For a lightweight desktop try LXDE.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-05-09
[http://www.tuxradar.com/content/whats-best-lightweight-linux-distro](http://www.tuxradar.com/content/whats-best-lightweight-linux-distro)

+1 Slitaz

This question comes up all the time, moving to recurring discussions.

If you use the search function you will find numerous similar discussion.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-05-09
Wolvix or Wolvix cub are awesome for older hardware.

Debian could work. Kubuntu 6.06 only requires 64 MB of RAM if you don't mind older things :)!

---

### Post by &#32 Greg on 2010-05-09
Arch Linux
Salix
Slitaz

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2010-05-09
Just add another 256M of RAM and use regular Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Hman242 on 2010-05-09
Slitax or Puppy are good suggestions but one not mentioned is 2X ThinClientOS.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-09
There are tons of lightweight distros, and it is a very frequently asked question. :) I'd recommend burning a bunch of Live CDs and testing out some combination of: Xubuntu, Lubuntu, Puppy, SliTaz, AntiX, CrunchBang, etc. (Sorry if I forgot anyone's favorite.) Find one that you like and that runs well on your hardware. Good luck! ;)

---

### Post by lostinxlation on 2010-05-10
Puppy is light and good, but puppy has a bit different flavor from regular distros due to its nature and you may or maynot like it.
Personally if I have 256MB, I'd go with other "regular" distros rather than slimmed-down distro such as Puppy or DSL.
 
I have Vector Linux Light 6.0 on 360MHz/128MB system and it's running pretty well.
 
With 256MB, don't even bother to run Xubuntu.

---

### Post by klemes on 2010-05-10
I have only one suggestion and taht is Debian.It still runs effectively in an old Dell PII 350MHz 192MB RAM that so it happens that I use it daily.
So there you have it .I rest my case!!!!!!:P
If I had to dig further an other option would be the new Debian-based Chrunchback but it is still in Alpha state and that means a lot of daily updates but not necessarily stability problems if I were to judge from previous 9.04 effort.
A good candidate would be Puppy Linux or it's alternate derivative MacPup_Opera but there is limited software available through the repositories from what I hear and testing the LiveCD I ran to some serious internet connectivity problems that may well only be affecting me from all I know but I cannot seriously recommend it at this stage of development for the above reasons,maybe just maybe a future candidate what you know...:popcorn:
My last recommendation would be to burn an ISO of the LiveCD's that are on offering by every major Linux distribution and judge for yourself what works for you and your system and just what suits better your needs before proceeding with the final installation of your chosen distribution.

---

