---
title: "11.04 or earlier critics"
date: 2011-05-10
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-10
I am a week old Linux user. Installed 11.04 and reading the many pro and con of this installation by established users of years. As a newbie should I go and learn this system with the 10.04 LTS?

Many of established users are turned off with the launcher, dash, unity thing. Is this a product of 
necessary change?

All comments welcome.

gumshoe

---

### Post by ghostborg on 2011-05-10
It's up to you if you like it or not. For now you can revert to Ubuntu classic by Log Out and when your user name is displayed click on it but don't enter your password yet. Look at the bottom of the screen and you should see the option to switch from Ubuntu to Ubuntu classic. Select that and then type in your password to complete the log in. You might need to go to System->Administration->Login Screen and unlock it then select Ubuntu Classic to make it the default.
You may have to install Compiz Config settings manager from Synaptic if not installed already. In System->Preferences.

I had some problems messing with Compiz Config Settings Manager where you lose ability to move windows around or lose title bars and you have to make sure to check box Window Decoration under Effects and Composite and Open GL under General and things like Move Window under Window Management are checked. Things got disabled when I started customizing Compiz.
Do a restart at some point.
If you are running Nvidia graphics you might notice in the Additional drivers it says it's installed but not in use but I think that is a bug as many people in the forums are mentioning it but you will know it's working if Compiz is working.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-05-10
Hi   Welcome to Linux and Ubuntu. 

Ubuntu 11.04 is here to stay. At least until October 2011. Then we will get 11.10. It is a continual development process. You have noticed that some people do not like change. Also, some people have very strong opinions. Some people like to change the way the operating system looks and works. They also break the operating system and then ask for help on these forums.

You can choose to use Ubuntu so that it looks just like other operating systems. It is called Ubuntu Classic. Or your can choose to use the new look which is called Ubuntu or Unity. Both ways of using Ubuntu will be here for a long time.

Here is a link to the blog of Mark Shuttleworth. He explains the direction that Ubuntu is being taken.

[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/)

Regards.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-05-10
I have a double feeling about it. Mark is trying to pull new users to Ubuntu. That's a very good thing, but I get the feeling that he wants to get rid of the names like Linux or Gnome around Ubuntu. Mark wants to make Ubuntu different from all other Linux distros. And for that, I do not like the changes he makes. It's just change for the sake of change. It would be a lot better to do relevant changes (better hardware support or even better user interface) and push them upstream so that all Linux users of all distros can use the changes and benefit from them.

Where Ubuntu used to be a pure FOSS distro (unlike it's derivatives like Linux Mint which also had proprietary programs), it's becoming very commercial very quick.   

I hope that Ubuntu will not become like Mac: an open source kernel with all closed source apps on top. I'm not necessarily against commercialization, but I hope they will keep Ubuntu as open-source as possible.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-05-10
Moved to Recurring Discussions.

You might as well learn Linux using Unity as it is almost identical to GNOME3, which will soon be the default for most of the linux distros using GNOME. Unity and GNOME3 have been designed to make Linux even easier to use. [http://www.gnome3.org/](http://www.gnome3.org/)

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-11
> **sanderd17 said:**
> I have a double feeling about it. Mark is trying to pull new users to Ubuntu. That's a very good thing, but I get the feeling that he wants to get rid of the names like Linux or Gnome around Ubuntu. Mark wants to make Ubuntu different from all other Linux distros. And for that, I do not like the changes he makes. It's just change for the sake of change. It would be a lot better to do relevant changes (better hardware support or even better user interface) and push them upstream so that all Linux users of all distros can use the changes and benefit from them.

Where Ubuntu used to be a pure FOSS distro (unlike it's derivatives like Linux Mint which also had proprietary programs), it's becoming very commercial very quick.   

I hope that Ubuntu will not become like Mac: an open source kernel with all closed source apps on top. I'm not necessarily against commercialization, but I hope they will keep Ubuntu as open-source as possible.

Interesting!  Thanks for that thoughtful response.

---

### Post by MelDJ on 2011-05-12
> **uRock said:**
> Moved to Recurring Discussions.

You might as well learn Linux using Unity as it is almost identical to GNOME3, which will soon be the default for most of the linux distros using GNOME. Unity and GNOME3 have been designed to make Linux even easier to use. [http://www.gnome3.org/](http://www.gnome3.org/)

that makes the future look bleak :(

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-05-12
> **MelDJ said:**
> that makes the future look bleak :(

Makes it look bright and refreshing.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-12
One of the great things about Linux is its versatility. It doesn't really matter too much what others use - you are the one at the keyboard looking at the monitor.

If you like it, stick with it. If you don't like it, see if you can modify it to suit your tastes - there are a mulitude of users who tweak almost all aspects of Ubuntu. If something bothers you, do a search. Today I decided I wanted to get rid of the shadowing around the windows, and after a minute search and a couple of commands they were gone.

Happy Ubuntu-ing !

---

### Post by kabloink on 2011-05-12
If you choose 10.04 or 10.10, you will likely have less bugs to deal with. Releases tend to become more stable over time. Which is why 10.04 is popular at the moment. It's fairly solid after a year of bug fixes.

---

### Post by ubume2 on 2011-05-13
Hello, 
Welcome to Ubuntu.  I notice that you are a new user of Linux.  That being the case, I would think you would more easily accept Ubuntu Unity, since you are a blank slate, and don't have any particular established prejudices.

By installing Ubuntu 11.04, you have a choice between Gnome or "Ubuntu Classic", and Unity which has been termed "Ubuntu."

Go for it.  You will likely have LESS frustration that the old timers. I admit I had several hours of hair pulling.  I went back to it later, did some tweaks here and there.  Now I love it!

I also have Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and Ubuntu 10.10 in my boxes.  Both of those are great also.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-05-16
> **ubume2 said:**
> Hello, 
Welcome to Ubuntu.  I notice that you are a new user of Linux.  That being the case, I would think you would more easily accept Ubuntu Unity, since you are a blank slate, and don't have any particular established prejudices.

+1.

Most of the "problems" with Unity aren't actually problems, but just differences in design between the old Gnome 2 and the new Unity. Having been here since 2005, I've seen a whole lot of minor changes in Ubuntu that have been treated by some Ubuntu users as the ULTIMATE EVIL.

A lot of people stamp their feet and proclaim that they're going to move to a different distribution because Ubuntu's window buttons have changed sides or something like that, and in the end they all accept the change with time. Now that 11.04 has come out, those people LOVE 10.04; whereas when 10.04 came out, they HATED it.

You don't have the disadvantage of knowing the old Gnome; so let's keep it that way :-)

Good luck!

---

