---
title: "11.10 32-bit vs 64-bit"
date: 2012-04-25
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by war3rd on 2012-04-25
I've been reading up on older versions (pre 11.10), but was wondering if there are still issues with the 64-bit version? I've got an i5-2500 with 8 gigs of memory, so a 32-bit install seems senseless, but I'm worried about slowness and compatibility still. 

Can anyone definitively say that the 64-bit release is stable and that I won't have to worry abut slowness running 32-bit applications under a 64-bit install?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-04-25
Moved to recurring discussions.

Most recent:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1965014](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1965014)

---

### Post by flipper T on 2012-04-25
hi

there really is only one way to know for sure how any os will perform with any particular hardware configuration...install it & use it.

my own experience, for what its worth, is that 64 bit has been stable, but my hardware differs from yours, so...

give 64 bit a whizz, unstable ? install 32 bit.

and all for the cost of 2 blank cds...bargain !

ps i would personally go for 12.04 LTS myself.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2012-04-25
You shouldn't have issues, but as already said, test first and decide after you are sure. Personally I haven't run anything 32 bit in a very long time except intentionally for testing purposes. I only run 64 bit on a variety of machines, always without limitations of speed or hardware issues.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-04-25
I've run 64-bit Ubuntu for years, no issues.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-05-23
> **war3rd said:**
> 
Can anyone definitively say that the 64-bit release is stable


Very stable.

> 
and that I won't have to worry abut slowness running 32-bit applications under a 64-bit install?

You won't need to run 32-bit applications at all.

---

