---
title: "help please. My idea to increase FLOSS users"
date: 2010-04-17
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-17
You don't need Linux skills to organize something like this. Somebody has to get the ball rolling, why not have a go your self. Contact RedHat, Novell, Canonical, the Gnome Foundation and KDE.org, and see what they say.

**Edit:** I forgot one, the Linux Foundation.

---

### Post by oOarthurOo on 2010-04-17
Actually, this is spam.

I've documented it here:

[http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=20&t=51098](http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=20&t=51098)

Requesting the thread be closed/deleted.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-17
Turns out the op has spammed this same post all over the place.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-04-17
Moved to recurring discussions.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2010-04-19
I don't think a site explaining terminology will be much help to new users.

It's like trying to learn a foreign language by reading a language-to-language dictionary. Theoretically possible. Tedious. Inefficient.

The best way to learn a foreign language is to use it and to have a native speaker guide you in common usage.

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2010-04-19
I think doing documentation is the wrong approach. If our system requires knowledge of UNIX or to touch the commandline unhelp aided by instructions we failed. We should identity the problem areas users are seeing and we should address them by priority. Sometimes we just have to change the language a little, or change the program slightly. I am pretty sure little efforts such as the papercuts effort can close the gap and that addressing the problem like that is the best approach.

Make bugreporting as easy as possible, make it as easy as possible to contribute small fixes. Perhaps even in the browser somehow - we can already do very complex editors in something like HTML5 so minor editing and diff production plus some autogenerated test install does sound possible. 

This is what Ubuntu is doing, I think improving the existing documentation as is being done by organizing them by task can help as well. Right now I think though that the majority of these kinds of problems indicate areas where Ubuntu technically needs growth and polish which is harder to do right. It is sad but true, for a number of users were are a suboptimal choice.

---

### Post by madjr on 2010-04-19
> **oOarthurOo said:**
> Actually, this is spam.

I've documented it here:

[http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=20&t=51098](http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=20&t=51098)

Requesting the thread be closed/deleted.

hold on there, let him talk

hes looking for other opinions since the debian forums is a lot more closed minded and not very no0b friendly

i think what the OP is looking for is something like the [ubuntu manual project]("http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Manual-Will-Be-Available-with-Ubuntu-10-04-131201.shtml")

he might want to join the project and make good use of that energy
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-manual](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-manual)

another nice guide (but bit outdated) is 
[http://www.ubuntupocketguide.com/](http://www.ubuntupocketguide.com/)


he could also be referring as to include with the live-cd/dvd some intros, tours, videos and guides like Mac OS does

---

### Post by del_diablo on 2010-04-19
> **madjr said:**
> i think what the OP is looking for is something like the [ubuntu manual project]("http://news.softpedia.com/news/Ubuntu-Manual-Will-Be-Available-with-Ubuntu-10-04-131201.shtml")

A bit of critic: Has that thing actually been properly updated in ages? I think it was nice until i was over the initial, then it become bloody useless and it was full of big darned holes.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2010-04-19
> **del_diablo said:**
> A bit of critic: Has that thing actually been properly updated in ages? I think it was nice until i was over the initial, then it become bloody useless and it was full of big darned holes.
I think it's a new thing that will come out at the end of the month, along with the Ubuntu 10.04 release.

---

### Post by oOarthurOo on 2010-04-19
> **madjr said:**
> hold on there, let him talk

hes looking for other opinions since the debian forums is a lot more closed minded and not very no0b friendly

I don't know that it's fair to call us closed minded. That being said, DF is one of the few that chose to delete this. You'll find more than 20 forums where the exact post was also posted. I haven't bothered to skim through all 7 pages of google results, I'm sure a few of them are dupes, but all those on the first page of results are unique forums. 

Perhaps OP is sincere. If so he's going about it in such a way that if a forum chooses to delete it I don't think it's necessarily because they're close-minded. 

[http://www.google.ca/#q=%22I%27m+placing+this+thread+in+the+hope+it+may+be+useful+to+the+FLOSS%22&hl=en&filter=0&fp=4692a3ff86a6f392](http://www.google.ca/#q=%22I%27m+placing+this+thread+in+the+hope+it+may+be+useful+to+the+FLOSS%22&hl=en&filter=0&fp=4692a3ff86a6f392)

---

### Post by WinterMadness on 2010-04-21
if linux got rid of the need for people to become root, it would increase tenfold.

Yes its a security risk. But the average person straight up does not care. I tell people Windows is insecure all the time. They want to double click their programs and have it run. At the very most they want a window that simply asks if they want to run as root. I know a few people who wanted to like ubuntu but got sick of sudoing all the time.

Reduction, or complete removal of any need to ever (at any time) go into the command line is also needed.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2010-04-21
> **WinterMadness said:**
> if linux got rid of the need for people to become root, it would increase tenfold. I think Lindows, Xandros for Eee, and Mac OS X would disagree with you there.

---

### Post by WinterMadness on 2010-04-21
> **aysiu said:**
> I think Lindows, Xandros for Eee, and Mac OS X would disagree with you there.

 

If Ubuntu didnt need root, I know several people who would use it every day.

Lindows and Xandros were/are not popular for very different reasons.

In order for Linux to become popular it has to throw away its traditions.

---

### Post by oOarthurOo on 2010-04-21
> **WinterMadness said:**
> They want to double click their programs and have it run.

Those people aren't going to be happy with Vista or Win7... or 8 or 9. And you can configure sudo not to prompt for password, just like disabling UAC on Vista and 7. So... yeah. If everyone wants to turn Ubuntu, or any Linux or any future version of Windows into the permissionless mess that XP was, they have that power. 

> I know a few people who wanted to like ubuntu but got sick of sudoing all the time.

Shame they didn't know anyone who knew how to configure sudo to their liking, or properly explain the benefits.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2010-04-21
> **wilbuntu said:**
> 
We could save time, promote efficiency  at forums, and I believe could make life easier to new users, if they have the chance  to go ( from a bold link in his distro site) to a minimum basic knowledge about our vocabulary, some operations, and comparisons with win similarities. preferably,  only including items that are standard and common to all distros. I don't think it makes sense to talk abstractly about some dream wiki. If you want to set up the wiki, set it up, and others may contribute if they deem it worthwhile. I wish you the best.

I've already set up my own Ubuntu tutorials site that I think is one good guide for a particular kind of new user.

The Ubuntu Manual is a more official and comprehensive guide to Ubuntu.

There is also the community site, which is a bit more scatter-brained but also has its uses (I link to the RootSudo page all the time).

---

### Post by Chrysantine on 2010-04-26
> **WinterMadness said:**
> if linux got rid of the need for people to become root, it would increase tenfold.
Mac gained more desktop users in a year than Linux did in 20 and we use authentication just like everyone else does. Your point is moot.

Windows is gravitating towards UAC 'sudo-like' policy - not FROM it simply because having restricted users makes sense from a security standpoint and finally more people are waking to the reality that you really, really should protect your information.

What hurts Linux in the long run is the insane fragmentation - there's simply too many people pulling the horse in too many directions and the lack of proper standards for graphics, sound and installation of software. Something that has been discussed a million times over and no one is willing to actually do anything about it other than bicker on newsgroups, forums and iRC.

---

### Post by Chrysantine on 2010-04-26
Yes Wilbuntu you are completely right; Linux is indeed a powerhouse when it comes to servers. My commentary was solely pointed towards the current desktop situation.

---

