---
title: "10.04 Lucid Lynx Window Controls on the Left!?"
date: 2010-04-25
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by Octagonal on 2010-04-25
Four days from now I am expecting to see a lot of posts on the forums about how to move the window controls (Close, Minimize, Maximize) back to the right in the default 10.04 installation.

This guy has a good post on the issue:
[http://yokozar.org/blog/archives/194](http://yokozar.org/blog/archives/194)

One point is reason enough for me to want 'em back on the right. Namely, "The buttons are too close to the file and edit menus."


To change them back I followed what was posted here: [http://hubpages.com/hub/Move-Window-Controls-back-to-right-in-Ubuntu-1004](http://hubpages.com/hub/Move-Window-Controls-back-to-right-in-Ubuntu-1004)

"Press "Alt+F2" - You will get the "Run Application" Window. 
Type "gconf-editor"  - You will get a Configuration Editor Screen
Goto "Apps -> Metacity -> General" under the window dropdown menu. On the right side you can see a key named "button_layout"
It will have a value "maximize,minimize,close" in a different order. Change it to "menu:maximize,minimize,close". The editing can be done by right clicking on the value and pressing "Edit Key"."

Looking forward to 10.04 release... started with Feisty and haven't looked back since.

---

### Post by tubezninja on 2010-04-25
I've been beta testing 10.04, and while I mostly like it, I have to say, the movement of the window controls constantly trips me up and slows it down.

Being a mac user, I would've thought I'd love the change, but the thing is, even the placement of the close/minimize/maximize buttons is in a different order, tripping me up every time.  For people who have to switch between operating systems, this tiny little change is gonna be such a huge pain.

EDIT:  Well, I guess I need to update!  Apparently the placement has changed. :D

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-04-25
You don't have to use the Gconf-editor, just choose any other theme than Radiance or Ambiance, then the buttons will move on their own. Please don't tell newbies to use the method you've posted here.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2010-04-25
At least give it a shot having the controls on the left. It took me about 2 days, but now I prefer it. I preferred it so much that on my 9.10 systems here I edited gconf to swap them to the left.

It's -really- not a big deal. It's very easy to switch them back as posted above with the gconf key. And yes - I would argue it's good to make newer users aware of that fix since some users may prefer to just use the default themes. ;)

---

### Post by jrothwell97 on 2010-04-25
Here we go again...

*recurring in 3... 2... 1...*

---

### Post by Oni-san on 2010-04-25
I just upgraded to lucid and immediatly modified the buttons position in gconf-editor.

I don't see any added value to this new position.

It's confusing and as said before, too close to the File menu.

There are a lot of other important things to improve in linux, just let these buttons in peace.

---

### Post by Uncle Spellbinder on 2010-04-25
> **jrothwell97 said:**
> Here we go again...

*recurring in 3... 2... 1...*

Surprised this thread has lasted this long without being moved yet.

---

### Post by Mr. Picklesworth on 2010-04-25
> **NCLI said:**
> You don't have to use the Gconf-editor, just choose any other theme than Radiance or Ambiance, then the buttons will move on their own. Please don't tell newbies to use the method you've posted here.

Exactly! I hope there is a prominent sticky to this end.

If you want, you can also create a new meta-theme with the Ambience / Radiance look but buttons in the old position. Choose another theme, hit Customize, choose the border / controls you want, and then save it. The button order is defined in index.theme, and in this case goes unspecified, so the buttons stay in their default arrangement.

(On another note, I tried this for a while and didn't like it. Something about this theme works better with buttons on left).

---

### Post by TheNessus on 2010-04-25
No such annoyances in Kubuntu 10.4 :)

---

### Post by fillintheblanks on 2010-04-25
I like them on the left actually.. and it wasn't all that hard to get used to either,

it feels like a brand new system

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-04-25
> **Mr. Picklesworth said:**
> 
[QUOTE=NCLI;9172539]You don't have to use the Gconf-editor, just choose any other theme than Radiance or Ambiance, then the buttons will move on their own. Please don't tell newbies to use the method you've posted here.

Exactly! I hope there is a prominent sticky to this end.

If you want, you can also create a new theme with the Ambience / Radiance look but buttons in the old position. Choose another theme, hit Customize, choose the border / controls you want, and then save it. The button order is defined in index.theme, and in this case goes unspecified, so the buttons stay in their default arrangement.

(On another note, I tried this for a while and didn't like it. Something about this theme works better with buttons on left. Maybe it's just me).[/QUOTE]

Could you please push for such a sticky? This is becoming bothersome...

---

### Post by standingwave on 2010-04-25
> **Octagonal said:**
> Four days from now I am expecting to see a lot of posts on the forums about how to move the window controls (Close, Minimize, Maximize) back to the right in the default 10.04 installation.Meh, not a big deal to me though I do question the wisdom of 1) making the change so late in the development process and b) introducing it in an LTS release. And moving the buttons to free up space for some future function down the road. But, not a big deal - I use the keyboard shortcuts as much as possible.

---

### Post by markinf on 2010-04-25
The first thing that I'll do when I upgrade to lucid it's this.
I want my buttons on the RIGHT.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-25
I haven't seen any reports about this thread, but now that I've seen it, moved to recurring.

---

### Post by zipperback on 2010-04-28
No need for people to use gconf-editor to modify it, they can download and install Ambiance_R

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9186310#post9186310](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9186310#post9186310)

I modified Ambiance and renamed it Ambiance_R as in Ambiance Right Side.

This allows them to have the original theme unmodified should they want to try it out in the future.


- zipperback
:popcorn:

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2010-11-14
I found a python script a while ago, which provides a GUI to change the configuration of the window controls. I modified it little so that it indicates the current state of the controls and to also provide the option to re-integrate the lost menu-button (might be helpfull sometimes).

I have attached the respective files to install it in the usual way. I hope you enjoy it!

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-11-14
> **Krytarik said:**
> I found a python script a while ago, which provides a GUI to change the configuration of the window controls. I modified it little so that it indicates the current state of the controls and to also provide the option to re-integrate the lost menu-button (might be helpfull sometimes).

I have attached the respective files to install it in the usual way. I hope you enjoy it!

Or people can just learn to adjust to such a minor change that doesn't make any difference whatsoever and stop crying over it :)

---

