---
title: "Canonical does not use FOSS software?"
date: 2008-04-11
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by stephantom on 2008-04-11
Hey,
A bit of trivia: I just noticed that the guys at Canonical don't seem to be using Open Software themselves.
Check out any Canonical supplied PDF (e.g. /usr/share/example-content/case_Wellcome.pdf). If you check out the properties (e.g. in evince) you'll see that it was generated by Adobe InDesign CSS3. Unless I missed something, InDesign is neither available for Linux nor is it Open Source.
I don't mind personally, Canonical is free to use whatever they want. But it's seems a bit strange to me. I imagine that they're putting quite a bit of money into sponsoring the development of Ubuntu.

So why not use Scribus?

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-04-11
the layouts could well have been outsourced to a design company

---

### Post by Lostincyberspace on 2008-04-11
So Linus Torvalds admits he uses non OSS when it is a better program.

---

### Post by 23meg on 2008-04-11
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website/+bug/118559](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website/+bug/118559)

---

### Post by spamzilla on 2008-04-11
I fail to see a problem here. I fully support FOSS but if there is a non OSS app which is better, then I will use it. 

For example, Dreamweaver. I really do not like the FOSS web design apps and through work I can freely get my hands on Dreamweaver, so I'm using that. Same goes for java and flash plugins.

While FOSS is truly an amazing thing, you really shouldn't be so short sighted and restrict yourself to FOSS only apps, but at the end of the day, it is your choice :)

---

### Post by popch on 2008-04-11
> **stephantom said:**
> Hey,
A bit of trivia

Oh, my.

---

### Post by vexorian on 2008-04-12
> **Lostincyberspace said:**
> So Linus Torvalds admits he uses non OSS when it is a better program.
Linus torvalds is just a guy who picked a license for his fun project. I think that's sort of his own words.

I am more sided towards RMS myself, but I wish I could get rid of all proprietary software I use.

The other day I tried to get rid of floola, but that just ended with me wasting hours fixing my ipod from gtkpod's terrorism.

---

