---
title: "Was 11.04 a mistake?"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by Learning Linux 2011 on 2011-04-29
11.04 seems to be a disaster.  

Do you think Canonical felt pushed to release 11.04 because of its 6 month lifecycle promise?  Why not 11.05 or 11.06?

---

### Post by ElSlunko on 2011-04-29
Why? Everything is working fine here.

---

### Post by Learning Linux 2011 on 2011-04-29
My computer is now crashing endlessly after upgrading to 11.04.

---

### Post by aguafina on 2011-04-29
Only time will tell.

---

### Post by dh04000 on 2011-04-29
11.04 was not a mistake. Tons and tons of planning went into this release. Thousands of man hours and well planning allowed it to release on the day it was panned for, including getting the website and packages done in time.

Canonical planned for it to be released the day it was released. And they succeeded in getting it ready in time.

They knew it was not "final" Gnome 2 wasn't final until a few months ago. Both Unity and Gnome 3 will continue to evolve over time.

This was not a "mistake". A mistake would be releasing it a day late, or a week late, or a month late. A mistake would have been released an uninstallable iso. A mistake would have caused a computer to explode.

A mistake is like stacking boxes in a warehouse wrong, causing it to fall over and crush an employee. Or make a wrong turn into a one way and crash head long into someone. A mistake kills or greatly hinders.

This was not a mistake. They said April 28th and we got April 28th.

They meant for it to be the way it is on the day it arrived. Its not final, nor was it ever meant to be. Far from a mistake.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-04-29
11.04 may not be a mistake, but it is most likely a mistake if you blindly do your upgrade according to Canonical's release schedule. You don't have to upgrade after only 6 months, and certainly not on the first day when the new release comes out. So just say no when you see the popup inviting you to upgrade.

---

### Post by higashi on 2011-04-29
I had enormous problems when upgrading to 11.04. A clean install did the trick in my case. Everything works fine now.

---

### Post by Version Dependency on 2011-04-30
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> My computer is now crashing endlessly after upgrading to 11.04.

Do a fresh install. Or just go back 10.10.  Unity is a nice desktop environment and I can definitely see the direction Canonical is wanting to go here.  But it's still early in the game...so expect bugs.  Might want to wait until 11.10 to try Unity if breakages cause you that much grief.

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2011-04-30
Unity will take some getting used to. . . I personally don't like it b/c it doesn't offer the security of normal desktops. There's no hiding what you're doing, when someone enters the room. The sidebar constantly tries to hide from me, even when I've placed my mouse on it. The shortcuts are in no way customizable. There is no show desktop. At first, I was told that it was because I didn't like change. I can agree with that. This desktop is change, and I don't like some of it's features. Some of them make programming and doing things (other than browsing the web) very complicated if you're using a netbook, all the icons in the sidebar seem to want to ignore you. It's not perfect, but it's original! :-) It is an expiriment, like anything else in life. It's purpose is to be beneficial to everyone, and for that I think they have done a great job. It sets an entirely new quality standard in desktop assistance and flashiness. but. . . and here the clause, beneficial to everyone means that input has to be taken from everyone. . . on a system which was built on ALL new technology, Because it is new, there will be flaws, but because it is new, it is bold. It's attempting things which have not been attempted before. It's attempting to change the way we associate with computers. I like it, but I don't, as of now, the reasons I use Ubuntu for, Unity complicates, but in the future, who knows? Unity may inspire Microsoft itself. I like where it's headed though.

---

### Post by Ctrl-Alt-F1 on 2011-04-30
I'm pleasantly surprised with 11.04.  Sure the menus don't make as much sense to me as before, but I was expecting a very rushed product (after using Gnome-Shell, which is beautiful by the way but totally dis-functional). It feels like there is still some work to do with Unity, but overall I think that it's just peachy.

---

### Post by eentonig on 2011-04-30
My computer crashes after the upgrade, but I don'tthink they made à mistake. Innovation is necessary, and Will always cause friction. The average Joe doesn't Mike change. 

But, if they didn't force the change by putting unity as à standard, it woud never be able to grow as fast. Devs are dependant of the uwer feedback to continue improve any software. 

Besides, people who need there pc running for their life saving, business critical, word changing webbrowsing, family photos or music collection still have à viable alternative. They could stick with 10.10 or the latest LTS (mission critical anyone?)

---

### Post by samacaster on 2011-04-30
There is no such thing as a mistake in the ever developing field of Linux. There may be setbacks ( and Unity is one) but theres always a new release on the horizon.

All releases have their "Holy cow, I F@#cked up! moment," With Windows it was Millennium, and Mac... well All of them! Overpriced garbage.

Canonical, at least isn't afraid to try new things.

---

### Post by Spice Weasel on 2011-04-30
According to posts on these forums, every Ubuntu release since 5.04 has been a mistake.

As long as it works for you personally, it's fine. If it does not then you have two choices. Use what you were using before, or move on to something different.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-04-30
> **Spice Weasel said:**
> According to posts on these forums, every Ubuntu release since 5.04 has been a mistake.

Too true. :P

---

### Post by Artemis3 on 2011-04-30
The non LTS releases are meant to be more experimental, its not a mistake. From your failure reports there is hope things will get ironed out for 12.04.

---

### Post by Lensman on 2011-04-30
A mistake? I don't think so. All I see is a natural evolution of Ubuntu and an improvement in many small and large ways. Unity is a brave step forward, that is surprisingly easy to adapt to and I am looking forward to future improvements.

---

### Post by Carterclan on 2011-04-30
I am so far enjoying myself with 11.04. I love finding my way around new systems and 11.04 is certainly refreshingly new, and I am looking forward to see how they improve upon it over time. I have had no issues so far the upgrade went smoothly, but I would like to see the side bar a little more customisable than it is at present.
Definitely not a mistake 
On the whole job well done:D

---

### Post by mikeycuk on 2011-04-30
Hi, I am new to Ubuntu having tried many different linux distros over the last few weeks in an attempt to escape Windows lol.

The thing that had always put me off Ubuntu was the Gnome interface, I did try KDE versions of most distros.  I did a fresh install of Natty on the release date and it went perfectly.  I have to say that I LOVE the Unity interface. For me, being a very recent Windows convert, it is another step away from the 'typical' computer interface.

I'd like to say thanks for the efforts of all those involved in producing Linux in general and Natty in particular.

Unfortunately, there is just one remaining thing that means I have to keep Windows on my PC and that is photoshop (CS3).  If there was just a suitable alternative I could wipe Windows and never go there again lol.
I know there is Gimp but that is really only a photoshop elements replacement at this stage of developement. Hopefully this will change at some point.

Anyway, the upshot is, I officially love Natty and Linux has a new convert. ha ha. :D

Cheers, Mike

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-04-30
> **Spice Weasel said:**
> According to posts on these forums, every Ubuntu release since 5.04 has been a mistake.


+1.

Canonical doesn't have the ability to test Ubuntu on every hardware-software configuration there is. Therefore, every new version and even every update, is guaranteed to break someone's computer. Is every update a mistake?

This time it was the OP computer, lets file support requests and bug reports and try to fix things. Complaining isn't really productive (especially since the developers don't really come here).

11.04 was expected to be more problematic, since it is more of a change. Hence the number of people with problems will probably be larger than usual .. if 11.04 has some bug which makes it unusable for you, then you should consider going back to 10.10 until 11.10. The next version will be more stable, however, it will still break some people's machines and it will again be the "Worst Ubuntu Ever".

---

### Post by solitaire on 2011-04-30
First off i've never liked Unity in 11.04 that much ( dual booted 10.04 with 11.04 beta)
It feels like Canonical is trying to push this version of Ubuntu as a "netbook OS" rather than an OS for everyone.

I admit Unity looks great on any screen smaller than 11 inches. but on a 15 inch or larger screen, to me it just looks odd. 

I've also noticed that it was a bit more buggy with this upgrade. I know everyone's set up is different but my last 2 upgrades went without a hitch and were stable!

I won't go as far in saying it was a mistake but it did feel a bit rushed (like missing out a RC which may have caught the last few bugs before going live!)

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-04-30
I think it was rushed. It locks up the desktop a few minutes after login. Dammit, I want a desktop that works and I don't understand why Lucid Lynx runs beautifully on my netbook and Natty Narwhal is completely unusable on it!

---

### Post by Sashin on 2011-04-30
> **NormanFLinux said:**
> I think it was rushed. It locks up the desktop a few minutes after login. Dammit, I want a desktop that works and I don't understand why Lucid Lynx runs beautifully on my netbook and Natty Narwhal is completely unusable on it!

Lucid Lynx is an LTS release, they put way more effort into making sure everything works nicely.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-04-30
We keep moving towards a future product that will be 100% stable - thats the goal .....

I think .......

So the release of any product can be measured >>> the fewer complaints about the product .......... the better ..... we hope ......

The quicker and easier it is to resolve any problems the better ....... too as people have a short period of time where they think is the hassle worth it or do I install another Distro ......

_______________________________________________

Burn time 1 hour ..... Install time 1 hour max .......

If their problems cannot be solved in 2 hours ....... maybe we need to concentrate on a better approach to making easy options for problem solving .......

Isolating the problem and fixing it quickly - but also allowing a database of incidents to be kept to find the re-occuring ones ..........

________________________________________________________

I see that on problems a choice was taken to go into safe mode ...... which is good as many people are now in this and can still use their computers.

How do we resolve the one thing that is a show stopper ..... lock-ups ....... 
I have seen a few of these reported after the upgrade on the forums .....

Is a clean install then the next option ........ to tell users to use here ......

or is there a better way to indicate on the screen at what stage the lockup occurs .....
so the User does not have to wade through loads of stuff to let us know ......

1..... 2.......3.......4.......5.......6.......7........8.........9........10


A simple set of numbers coming up on the screen or in a small log would be sufficient ...... to let us know (from the USER saying the number) how far into the process ....... it got before locking up. :D


Just a thought ....... we have detailed logs but thats not the initial thing a User wants to be wading through and most would find it a start to give us some very basic info - it makes the USER feel useful and gets them into the process of reporting things ..........

Its not a mistake to release a product - its what we do after its released ....... to make the gentle transition back to into calm ...... and a working system.
with lots of happy smiling faces ..... ;)

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2011-04-30
> **Version Dependency said:**
> Do a fresh install. Or just go back 10.10.

I've read many threads on this Ubuntu forum where a fresh install would solve the issues some people get when upgrading from one version to another and I'm seriously thinking, why is that?

I think that if a release of Ubuntu cannot handle a upgrade of the whole system without reformatting the hard disc and making a new install, then every release is a mistake for not taking that into consideration.

Sure it must be very difficult to make sure a new version Ubuntu works on new pc hardware, but if the hardware is the same and only the distribution is using a newer kernel, then the problem should not be that the software lacks hardware support/drivers where the previous version did, in my opinion.

Other than than that, I don't think that 11.04 is a mistake, and any new version of Ubuntu which uses a new Linux kernel should be interesting to the majority of Ubuntu Linux users, I think.

---

### Post by _outlawed_ on 2011-04-30
Everything works fine here. Unity takes some getting used to, but it's growing on me. Not so much on my desktop, but it's quite good on my laptop.

---

### Post by kabloink on 2011-04-30
I wonder if it was a mistake.

I keep seeing "It takes time to get use to it" or "it grows on you after a period of time" type comments. As opposed to "it's great, you really need to try it" comments.

It's sort of like someone asking you how are your spouses burnt casseroles and you reply "their ok, you get use to them after a while".

I can remember when Windows 95 came out and all the excitement over the huge desktop change. I simply don't see anything similar to that with Unity. 

What I am seeing with Unity is a lot of users that seem like they are required to use it since it was pushed out by Ubuntu. It's similar to when the window button were moved to the left side, a lot of users forced themselves to get use to the new position without any real reason of why they should or that they even gained anything from having them there.

---

### Post by Ominara on 2011-04-30
I really think this is not a mistake... I love when somebody that don't spect money from me, improve the work he is doing. I think is a good idea to jump to another level... Allways there is going to be people that don't like... but its a matter of selecting.

In other way... I love UNITY... and its not the terrible change that I read over here...

It's going to take some time to get used to it... but its great!!!!

---

### Post by Throne777 on 2011-04-30
Unity took errrrrr jeeerrrrrbbbssss!!

(I happen to really like Unity, even if it is a bit sluggish, a little buggy & laughs at my mediocre spec. computer whilst I'm not looking)

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-04-30
No. It was not a mistake. In fact, there have been worse Ubuntu releases than this.

---

### Post by spoons on 2011-04-30
The mistake in my view was trying to do too much in one release. It was a big overhaul, they should have stretched that out until 11.10. As long as they don't get rid of the classic desktop, I'm happy.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2011-04-30
I actually think Ubuntu is getting much better. Usually there are about 15 threads like this after a release. ;)

---

### Post by weasel fierce on 2011-04-30
Yeah, I think its terrible that you cannot under any circumstances change the graphical user interface in a linux distribution.

They should really do something about that.
I think they should be more like Windows, where there are dozens of great desktop environments to choose from.



Wait...

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2011-04-30
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> My computer is now crashing endlessly after upgrading to 11.04.

Perhaps a clean install would fix it.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2011-04-30
The only mistake was making Unity the default. It should have been optional at this point in development,

---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2011-04-30
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> My computer is now crashing endlessly after upgrading to 11.04.

Not everyone has the same problems though. My main problems with Unity are performance issues. Those will be fixed over time, most likely, but as it is right now I still use 10.04 Lucid.

If you feel like the non-LTS versions aren't working so well, I highly recommend using 10.04 Lucid and/or upgrading once a future LTS version comes out. LTS versions have a reputation for stability and I have to say, running 10.04 has been a crash-free experience that lives up to that reputation.

Nonetheless, I was miserable when I started using Ubuntu back in the days of 8.10 Intrepid Ibex. But when 9.04 (Jaunty) came along, running Ubuntu went from being a chore to being a dream. Don't forget that 11.04 is experimental in a lot of ways; it's laying the groundwork for the inevitably better 11.10 release.

---

### Post by wizard10000 on 2011-04-30
Part of the problem with staying on the bleeding edge is that stuff occasionally breaks - it's the price one pays for staying on the bleeding edge  :D

This is one of the issues with an event-driven release cycle as opposed to releasing stuff when it's 100% ready - there are tens of thousands of packages in a mainstream Linux release and the folks doing the testing generally have a little more technical savvy than the average user - and can work around a lot of the issues.  What might be just a minor irritation for one person could be a complete showstopper for another.

This was the reason I moved from Fedora to Debian somewhere around Core 5 - I was tired of the breakage and didn't have the experience to fix stuff.  I'm really glad I made the switch because IMO Debian's package management system is far superior to RedHat's although you can install apt on a Fedora box  ;)

Debian releases when things are ready - Ubuntu releases are event-driven.  All things considered the Ubuntu developers have done a hell of a job, but upgrading an OS just because the new release has a higher number is a lousy reason to upgrade - unless you're a hobbyist, but professional geeks don't put their data at risk  ;)

On a six-month release cycle you've gotta expect some breakage.  Unity is brand new to Ubuntu and there are bound to be kinks.

---

### Post by Desert Sailor on 2011-04-30
I am running a home made AMD Athalon 3200, with one (1) gig of memory.  I debated to upgrade or hold off, but wanted to see the new toys, so I upgraded.  Worked perfectly for me.  Sure, it will take me some time to get used to Unity, but I think I'll like it.  I don't know why some machines upgrade with no problem and others break, but mine worked flawlessly.

---

### Post by K_45 on 2011-04-30
If I were to describe Ubuntu in 3 words reliability or stability would not be in the top three.

---

### Post by mahousaru on 2011-04-30
Personally to answer this question I need to split into 2 parts...

Is upgrading to 11.04 a requirement?

Is Unity a mistake?

**Is upgrading to 11.04 a requirement?**

I run Ubuntu on a day to day basis.  I use it at work and at home.  It runs on various machines from my day to day notebook to my multimedia machine.

I start using Linux years ago, my first taste was RH 5.1 and I moved to SuSE due to the Novell (at work we are a Novell house).  As soon as I tried Ubuntu I jumped ship and even if I keep trying other distros I have never been tempted to jump ship (yet).  

How does this help answer the question?  Well until 10.04 came out I used to chase each new version of Ubuntu (and other distros).  Something would not quite work which forced me to use lots of PPAs, or compile from source.

Since 10.04 has come out I have not felt the need at all to upgrade to a newer version.  I still like to test out the latest version and try the new concepts, but right now 10.04 fits like a really nice pair of shoes.  The only PPA I have to use is for Pidgin to add new buddies :D

This is also the case for all the people I help outside of work.  Basic policy is if I help it is to migrate them to Ubuntu.  Staying on the LTS version means I don't need to worry about them bugging every half a year in regards to a big update.

So my conclusion is upgrading to 11.04 would be a mistake for me.

**Is Unity a mistake?**

I really like Gnome 2.x, especially the way I have mine set up, which is perfect for me...  But I don't think Unity is a mistake.  I think that any system needs to evolve, especially right now when the physical user interface is changing, as is the way we and our devices connect to the internet and each other.

I've tried both Gnome Shell and Unity quite a bit now, and I have to say I actually like both of them...  but lets stick to Unity for this answer!

At first I thought that lack of the "start menu bar" would make me less efficient, but I found that not the case.  Instead I found I started using the workspaces in more efficient and tidy manner especially when dealing windowed apps side by side.

There is a lot of room for improvement, for example the size of the dash should detect your screen.  I'm testing 11.04 on a EeePC 701 atm!

I do think that Unity and Gnome Shell is a move in the right direction.  Touch screen as an interface for the right or wrong reasons is something that will happen, and uniformity of UI between devices is a good thing IMHO.  It means that users just need to tweak their skills as they move from device to device rather then learning a whole new thing.

For those who consider themselves "power users", or just like to customise their UI, hey that is why we use Linux for isn't it?

---

### Post by nrundy on 2011-04-30
working fine on my laptop. I love it.

---

### Post by benc1213 on 2011-04-30
I will stick with gnome for now and most likely make my way over to unity in a few weeks if there are some updates for performance.

---

### Post by aguafina on 2011-04-30
I think Unity is a perfect move considering it's aimed at the small netbook and future touch screen market. it just may need some time to mature.

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2011-05-01
Because something comes with bells and whistles doesn't mean you have to use them?  Windows comes with IE, but not everyone uses that.  Windows also comes with WMP, and not everyone uses that either.

Natty comes with Unity, and I don't use it, and if these boards are anything to go by, quite a few others don't use it either.

You have choices and options.  Pick what best suits you, and if you find that you don't like it, choose something else.

Quite simple, really.

---

### Post by mkeuter on 2011-05-01
I think this release has been my worst experience upgrading. Probably because previous upgrades went ok I guess (since 7.10, didn't miss an upgrade on this system.) I had problems with my atheros driver (slow), solved thanks to ubuntuforums. 

Still troubleshooting nvidia issues and unity will not always start (with some accounts it does, with others it doesn't). 

I'm contemplating a fresh install now, but hate to customize everything again..

---

### Post by MooPi on 2011-05-01
Natty in my opinion is the worst release I've had to deal with. I have broken devices, desktops and Unity is just not appealing. I have suggested to friends to steer clear of Natty for the time being. In general I don't like the direction Ubuntu is taking towards the desktop environment. I have multiple computers running various platforms from Windows XP and 7 to Ubuntu 10.04 and 10.10. I upgraded a couple of machines that had been running even older releases because 10.10 has worked so well for me. This is not the case with Natty. Test one never left the ground and ended with nothing more than a blank screen. Test 2 was a partial failure with reduced desktop function and broken wireless. The second test could only become useful if I rolled back to Gnome classic. These are not old rusted computers either, as both are dual or quad core, 2 gig of ram and discrete graphics cards. Yesterday was spent trying to get a desktop running that will only serve as a test for Natty because I can't stand to use it for normal activity. I try to stay current so I'm more helpful on the forum. So I feel that we will be busier with Natty and my initial feeling is yes 11.04 minor mistake.

---

### Post by graabein on 2011-05-01
Calling Ubuntu 11.04 a mistake is ludicrous. I myself *always* wait an extra week or two before upgrading ;-)

Choosing to go with Unity is a bold move by Canonical. Sure it might not be ready yet, and its features need more work, so many new users might be put off. The more experienced ones should just go with the environment they prefer (GNOME 2/3, KDE, Xfce, there's a lot of choice). It's not hard to set that up. 

Canonical is in their full right to make these choices for the default install. As a user you can either set it up the way you want or try another distro's defaults. Either way I applaud their courage and I'm excited about the future. There's a lot of possibilities. 

BTW good post, **ki4jgt** and **mahousaru**.

---

### Post by AmpersUK on 2011-05-01
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> 11.04 seems to be a disaster.  

Do you think Canonical felt pushed to release 11.04 because of its 6 month lifecycle promise?  Why not 11.05 or 11.06?

I installed Beta 2 on my 64-bit Desktop, Notebook (Siemens Lifebook) and my ASUS Netbook. Everything is working superbly. Admittedly there seemed a few problems at first but it was me rather than the software and as soon as I understood how it worked, everything fell neatly into place.

Unity is by far better than Gnome and puts clear space between Ubuntu and Windows, Mac and other Distros.

At last I feel confident to sell the idea of Ubuntu to my friends.

Well done Mark and the Ubuntu team.

Ampers

---

### Post by AmpersUK on 2011-05-01
> **graabein said:**
> Canonical is in their full right to make these choices for the default install. As a user you can either set it up the way you want or try another distro's defaults. Either way I applaud their courage and I'm excited about the future. There's a lot of possibilities.

Well said!

---

### Post by AmpersUK on 2011-05-01
> **MooPi said:**
> Natty in my opinion is the worst release I've had to deal with. 

Everyone is entitled to their opinions I guess, just as I am entitled not to agree with you. I have moved my desktop, notebook and netbook over from Beta 2 and have had no problems at all.

Although nearly 72 years of age, I struggle sometimes as I am not an expert, but soon got to know how it all slotted together.

I don't know your age but** if** you are a lot older than me, it could be that you may be a little set in your ways? I expect I will become so when I get older as well so I mustn't be too abrasive.

Give it a little time, you will get used to it and may get to like it as I have.

---

### Post by andrek on 2011-05-01
Easily the best release so far for me. Everything works great, including Unity which is awesome.

---

### Post by cespinal on 2011-05-01
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> 11.04 seems to be a disaster.  

Do you think Canonical felt pushed to release 11.04 because of its 6 month lifecycle promise?  Why not 11.05 or 11.06?


Hi, welcome to the world of Ubuntu. You must be new here, please, have a sit. I will tell you a story.

6 months release cycles are certainly short and this kinds of situations show up AT EVERY release. 

No, this version, just like the previous ones, has not been a disaster. It will get ironed up properly in the following weeks, and by the end of its cycle, it will be super stable and reliable. But no, you will not stay with it no matter how good it is because you will want to be in the leading edge. You will upgrade, and I will see you in six months asking if 11.10 is a disaster. 

The only way out from this is just creating yearly release cycles... that way Canonical can keep the community ranting at least once a year and not twice.

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2011-05-01
I want to thank everyone for all the work done to produce Ubuntu from A to N. And to all the corporate sponsors for the support they have given. This is truly the option that keeps the big boys in line. It's just fear of the unknown that keeps the other systems in operation.

I, like many others here have some "issues" with Natty. We have all had issues with every release so far and I am sure we will have issues going forward. If we didn't have issues we would still be using CP/M.

I look forward to getting used to Natty and finding out about the new interface. It looks weird now, but so did Windows 3.1 when I first turned it on (That will never catch on! Where do I enter the commands? Just Click? What do you mean "Just click"? Where's my rotary phone?).

---

### Post by cespinal on 2011-05-01
> **Don1500 said:**
> I want to thank everyone for all the work done to produce Ubuntu from A to N. And to all the corporate sponsors for the support they have given. This is truly the option that keeps the big boys in line. It's just fear of the unknown that keeps the other systems in operation.

I, like many others here have some "issues" with Natty. We have all had issues with every release so far and I am sure we will have issues going forward. If we didn't have issues we would still be using CP/M.

I look forward to getting used to Natty and finding out about the new interface. It looks weird now, but so did Windows 3.1 when I first turned it on (That will never catch on! Where do I enter the commands? Just Click? What do you mean "Just click"? Where's my rotary phone?).


12 hours...network traffic my friend... I have a crappy connection and had my system up a running in less than 30 minutes (from wubi)

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2011-05-01
> **cespinal said:**
> 12 hours...network traffic my friend... I have a crappy connection and had my system up a running in less than 30 minutes (from wubi)

Doesn't matter. If the .iso can be downloaded in 30 minutes on one machine while the other machine is running and had been running for 12 hours on the same LAN, "network traffic" is not the answer. It may be the reason, but the answer is to just start an .iso download when the upgrade button is pushed, or at least ask if the operator would rather use the .iso. Telling the operator that the on-line install could take 12 hours might get him to use the .iso.  This would reduce the traffic and reduce the time. Trying to run the download over the net is slow and unreliable.

---

### Post by firepages on 2011-05-01
> **graabein said:**
> 
Choosing to go with Unity is a bold move by Canonical. Sure it might not be ready yet, and its features need more work, so many new users might be put off. 

I don't think **new** users will be put off, I think **current** users will be put off , and IME its current users who introduce new users.

Yes, every upgrade brings gripes and groans, I have done many a reinstall because the upgrade killed something but never felt like griping about it..... but unity is a bit of a show stopper.

---

### Post by Jeff Johnston on 2011-05-01
> professional geeks don't put their data at risk
Actually what they do is check their work into a common source repository...then they can do whatever they want without worrying about the data. 

Personally I love Unity! I cannot wait to bring it into work...just a matter of when, not if. Usually I like to play it safe for my work computer, but lets face it...sometimes you just have to light that match just to see what happens :).

---

### Post by Don1500 on 2011-05-01
> **firepages said:**
> I don't think **new** users will be put off, I think **current** users will be put off , and IME its current users who introduce new users.

Yes, every upgrade brings gripes and groans, I have done many a reinstall because the upgrade killed something but never felt like griping about it..... but unity is a bit of a show stopper.

I had written a long boring explanation of why I hated Unity. Then I deleted it. When I started with Ubuntu I was lost for a while. It didn't work like windows, it looked funky. It looked cheap. The icons didn't look professional. Now 5-6 years down the road everything seems normal. Along comes 11.04 and the look is changed, not that it hasn't changed before. 10.04 was a radical change, the action buttons were on the wrong side and I kept clicking in the wrong place. I know 11.04 is different, but you'll get used to it, and might even start to like it.

What is funny, we all can't wait for the next release, wondering what's new. Then it comes out and we gripe because it's not like it was. So the orders to the dedicated people that work so diligently to give us this fantastic system is; "Make the next release new and exciting, but don't change anything."

---

### Post by Shining Arcanine on 2011-05-01
> **ElSlunko said:**
> Why? Everything is working fine here.

The installer crashes on me when I try installing it in VMWare Player.

To be honest, Ubuntu has never really worked for me in virtual machines. Then I tried Gentoo Linux and it actually worked, which is why I now run it on physical hardware.


> **wizard10000 said:**
> Part of the problem with staying on the bleeding edge is that stuff occasionally breaks - it's the price one pays for staying on the bleeding edge  :D

This is one of the issues with an event-driven release cycle as opposed to releasing stuff when it's 100% ready - there are tens of thousands of packages in a mainstream Linux release and the folks doing the testing generally have a little more technical savvy than the average user - and can work around a lot of the issues.  What might be just a minor irritation for one person could be a complete showstopper for another.

This was the reason I moved from Fedora to Debian somewhere around Core 5 - I was tired of the breakage and didn't have the experience to fix stuff.  I'm really glad I made the switch because IMO Debian's package management system is far superior to RedHat's although you can install apt on a Fedora box  ;)

Debian releases when things are ready - Ubuntu releases are event-driven.  All things considered the Ubuntu developers have done a hell of a job, but upgrading an OS just because the new release has a higher number is a lousy reason to upgrade - unless you're a hobbyist, but professional geeks don't put their data at risk  ;)

On a six-month release cycle you've gotta expect some breakage.  Unity is brand new to Ubuntu and there are bound to be kinks.

I use Gentoo Linux, which operates on a continuous release cycle. I have had far fewer issues with Gentoo Linux than I have seen with Ubuntu Linux firsthand. The level of issues was low enough that it was an improvement from Windows.

Anyway, if you want stability and long release cycles, you want to use FreeBSD. It is written to a higher standard than Linux.

---

### Post by MooPi on 2011-05-01
> **AmpersUK said:**
> Everyone is entitled to their opinions I guess, just as I am entitled not to agree with you. I have moved my desktop, notebook and netbook over from Beta 2 and have had no problems at all.

Although nearly 72 years of age, I struggle sometimes as I am not an expert, but soon got to know how it all slotted together.

I don't know your age but** if** you are a lot older than me, it could be that you may be a little set in your ways? I expect I will become so when I get older as well so I mustn't be too abrasive.

Give it a little time, you will get used to it and may get to like it as I have.
Not likely. I will continue to use Ubuntu but Unity isn't my cup of tea. Actually never has Gnome for that matter. It is the base OS that always brings me to Ubuntu and it has failed me this time. Openbox fan  :)

---

### Post by spoons on 2011-05-01
I can't boot the latest release from the CD I burned without it encountering a "panic" so I'm going to have to assume yes.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-05-01
11.04 worked great on the 2 computers I test-drove it on. No complaints. The Unity interface looks like it would take a little getting used to. But there's always Xubuntu, Kubuntu, Lubuntu if you want something a little different.

I've been on these forums since 7.10. There are always a lot of complaints about each new release. Never understood why so many people upgrade blindly on release day without test-driving first.

---

### Post by MaggiesDad on 2011-05-01
QUOTE=Version Dependency;10742270]Do a fresh install. Or just go back 10.10. Unity is a nice desktop environment and I can definitely see the direction Canonical is wanting to go here. But it's still early in the game...so expect bugs. Might want to wait until 11.10 to try Unity if breakages cause you that much grief.[/QUOTE]
 
Can you direct me to how to drop back to previous version. I upgraded blindly and is all screwed up?

---

### Post by MaggiesDad on 2011-05-01
Any information on how to go  back would be appreciated. I blew up.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-05-01
> **MaggiesDad said:**
> Any information on how to go  back would be appreciated. I blew up.

You need to back up your data and reinstall 10.10 if you want to "downgrade."

---

### Post by screaminj3sus on 2011-05-01
only time will tell.

---

### Post by murderslastcrow on 2011-05-01
Not for most people I've shown it to. It would have been if Unity were crashy, slow, or unpolished, but it isn't. It's good software, and everything is well patched to work together (including the toolbar grabbing and app menu stuff). So really, everything is consistent and works just how you'd expect.

They did a great job. If you want Gnome 3, use openSUSE or Fedora, or wait for Gubuntu. No one's forcing you to use Ubuntu, and there are distributions that have even better package availability if you don't like Unity.

Aside from all of the integration and refining (I love that I can scrub through the indicators without stopping at something, grab all toolbars, have menus for any application, etc.), it's basically the same as Maverick. You have the classic option, and if all else fails you have Xfce4.

And Unity is a lot more impressive and accessible for new users from what I've experienced than Gnome 2 was. It really was time to move on and let everyone else use Xfce4, since it's lighter than Gnome 2 anyway.

---

### Post by DoFlooterMoose on 2011-05-01
> **beew said:**
> 11.04 may not be a mistake, but it is most likely a mistake if you blindly do your upgrade according to Canonical's release schedule. You don't have to upgrade after only 6 months, and certainly not on the first day when the new release comes out. So just say no when you see the popup inviting you to upgrade.

 Amen to that! 

     I got the pop up and declined. it was that simple. I'm not one of those that has to have the newest Iphone the day it comes out (it didnt work anyways). If your not a technical guru with these things (like myself) why not wait till others have worked out the bugs and THEN upgrade. Seems like most of you are upset with it. I am very happy with 10.10:D and seen no need to upgrade. Maybe by the time support for 10.10 is over, the problems will be worked out with Unity. If not... theres always other Distro's. I'm hoping that Ubuntu gets straightened out though. 

     Sorry... should have said Unity. I dont believe there is anything wrong with the OS itself.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-05-01
I am the exact opposite. I no longer have faith in the 6 month release and will now urge folks to go from LTS to LTS. However I think the Unity design (other than a few issues I have) is fantastic. Especially how the top panel works is great.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-01
> **NightwishFan said:**
> Especially how the top panel works is great.

How is it great? I don't see any difference except now you can no longer customize anything like adding applets and indicators (without 3rd party tools and tedious whitelisting) and application windows sometimes open maximized without maximized/minimized/restore/exit buttons.

 Please tell us what is so great about losing functionalities and options and getting new weird menu bugs.

P.S. You have told us on many threads that you don't even use Ubuntu, why not since you seem to think every decision by Canonical is great? :)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-05-01
> **beew said:**
> How is it great?
I dont see how I owe you an explanation but ok.

[LIST]
[*]I like the top panel and how the window integrates with it. I do not like the global menu at all however if the menu integrates with the top panel only on maximized windows that would be fantastic. That would reek of inconsistency though. In my humble opinion it is either the whole 9 yards or nothing at all.
[*]The side bar is nice and easy to see; However I do not like a lot of how it looks and the autohide.
[*]The dash is just pathetic. It has potential but right now it is just confusing. I love needing several clicks to get anything done.
[*]The powerdown menu with system settings is inconsistent. Why bother to have the Ubuntu button at all if it is not a one stop shop.
[/LIST]

As far as I am concerned the most I am guilty of is not calling it utter rubbish or alternatively the savior of the linux desktop.

> I don't see any difference except now you can no longer customize anything like adding applets and indicators
At least indicators all work with the same design. Though Gnome 3 finally fixed this as well I believe.

> application windows sometimes open maximized without maximized/minimized/restore/exit buttons.
I did not say the implementation was flawless, I said I liked the design. To be honest I think it is buggy and new enough I will not recommend it's use. I do think it looks nice though.


> Please tell us what is so great about losing functionalities and options and getting new weird menu bugs.
I only compare Unity to Gnome 3. Gnome 2 is dead. Unity is more customizable than Gnome 3 by a lot. At least for the average person. If you know Javascript the gnome shell can do whatever you want. Both will improve as time goes on I hope.

> P.S. You have told us on many threads that you don't even use Ubuntu
In my opinion this is really antagonistic and not relevant but I will answer.

My reasons for not using Ubuntu have nothing to do with Unity. I do happen to test it quite often and I administer many many machines with it. I also have been happy to recommend Ubuntu for years now so I have a lot of personal reputation staked on its success.

> why not since you seem to think every decision by Canonical is great? :)
I have little to no faith in Canonical any more. However I think Unity was a good move. I have explained why enough before I will not bother to again. I think moving to wayland is a great move. I think moving the window buttons was pointless but I am so indifferent to it I can't call it a bad move.

I am growing bored with change even though I am not afraid of it. So I will recommend the LTS edition for folks that use Ubuntu. I do not hate Ubuntu.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-01
> **NightwishFan said:**
> 

[LIST]
[*]I like the top panel and how the window integrates with it. I do not like the global menu at all however if the menu integrates with the top panel only on maximized windows that would be fantastic. That would reek of inconsistency though. In my humble opinion it is either the whole 9 yards or nothing at all.
[*]The side bar is nice and easy to see; However I do not like a lot of how it looks and the autohide.
[*]The dash is just pathetic. It has potential but right now it is just confusing. I love needing several clicks to get anything done.
[*]The powerdown menu with system settings is inconsistent. Why bother to have the Ubuntu button at all if it is not a one stop shop.
[/LIST]


Thanks for clarifying.  This conveys a lot more than simply saying "it is great". In fact it is not so different from my opinion, though I wouldn't want to see any window integration to the top bar at all, but I can see there is some advantages for netbooks.

> As far as I am concerned the most I am guilty of is not calling it utter rubbish or alternatively the savior of the linux desktop.It is not my view either, I have said many times that I think Unity has potential but at this point it has many flaws, some are just bugs, but others seem to be by design. So I am taking a wait and see attitude. I will keep 10.10 on my main laptop but that has nothing to do with Unity, I don't see the point of upgrading when everything works as close to perfection as it can be for me. But on my older laptop I will be replacing Lucid with Natty and I would use Unity.

What I can't stand is the fanboyz dismissing critics with condescensions and strawman arguments as if all criticisms are the result of fear of change and fear of the unfamilarity.  

> I only compare Unity to Gnome 3. Gnome 2 is dead. Unity is more customizable than Gnome 3 by a lot. At least for the average person. If you know Javascript the gnome shell can do whatever you want. Both will improve as time goes on I hope.
I agree also that G2 is dead and it makes sense to compare to gshell. That's why I always find the advise "if you don't like Unity, use the classic desktop"  rather unhelpful and in some way lazy. If you rely on having the classic desktop to keep people in Ubuntu that is to admit that Unity is a failure. I would rather see them improving Unity to make it a success before they have released it with so much fanfare.

However, after trying a bit with Fedora 15 I actually feel Gnome shell less restrictive and managing/finding applications feel a lot smoother. I didn't think I would say that when I first saw Gnome shell.

> In my opinion this is really antagonistic and not relevant but I will answer.
Sorry if it came across that way, I was genuinely curious.

> I have little to no faith in Canonical any more. However I think Unity was a good move. I have explained why enough before I will not bother to again. I think moving to wayland is a great move. I think moving the window buttons was pointless but I am so indifferent to it I can't call it a bad move.That is a real surprise after reading many of your posts, hence my question: if you think everything is great why not use it?:) I personally think most things are great but there are also things I don't like.:)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-05-01
Thanks for replying. All I can say is: I want Canonical to do the right thing. I want to continue having such a solid relationship to them and Ubuntu. The only way I see this happening is putting forth the faith myself.

(Just today actually) I realized this is not the right thing to do. I am a humble user and I have a genuine toleration for decisions I do not agree with and I look to the bright side of them when I can. If my faith in Canonical is being shaken even with this outlook.. I fail to see how it is my fault that I no longer respect their decisions.

I am done making excuses for Ubuntu but I also will not condemn it utterly, if that makes sense.

---

### Post by syborfical on 2011-05-03
After trying ubuntu 11.04 im not impressed 
my netbook crashes due to an atheros wifi 

The new gui sucks, if i wanted a dock if buy a mac. It reminds me of the netbook remix.

Is it me or does release gets more and more retarded....  
I though the idea behind linux was to be able to customize.

I'' be looking at other distros ...

---

### Post by neu5eeCh on 2011-05-03
If you ask me, the mistake is a virus spreading through the Linux community. I'm trying to like KDE but it's like driving a way too-upholstered Cadillac on a hot day in Houston. Gnome 3 took something simple and effective and turned it into an icon driven carnival. Unity makes Apple and Windows 7 look good. That leaves XFCE, but XFCE is years behind Windows 7 and Apple.

Madness has descended on Linux.

It's depressing. I'm putting all my hopes in ElementaryOS and the possibility that they're forking Gnome 2.

---

### Post by cespinal on 2011-05-03
Wow...great comparisons! The KDE: Cadillac is just PERFECT. 

I still believe in Unity. I do find the GUI very ergonomic and pretty. Today's updates have been adding a little bit more stability to my system... only time will tell. 
XFCE is years behind... there... someone had to say it

---

### Post by ant2ne on 2011-05-03
I'll chime in my 2 cents worth.

I never used unity. And I determined to give it a fair chance. What I don't like is this recent ubuntu desireto be more like MacOS... With the Min/Max/Close button move to the left of the window and now the window menu bar at the top of the screen instead of fixed to that menu... And the launcher... I don't find MacOS interface superior to Windows (or any other linux GUI) I like my menu fixed to the window it belongs on. I like my buttons on the right. I do like the launcher though. :-)

I found unity hard to launch may apps. I don't use a few apps commonly that I can just park on the launcher. I use a large variety and a lot of apps. Digging through the launcher to find my apps is more work than the drop down lists of gnome. After a few days of using unity I was about to wipe and install and then I found these quick keys 
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/28086/unity-keyboard-mouse-shortcuts]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/28086/unity-keyboard-mouse-shortcuts") So I'm gonna paste that wallpaper on my desktop and give it another couple of days. Maybe with those short cuts I can be more productive.

I do applaud canonical and ubuntu for taking this risk and trying something new. I would like to know WHY they choose unity. I'm afraid that too many people will hate unity and 5 years from now people will be saying "Hey remember that ubuntu? That was a pretty cool distro. What ever happened to them? Oh yeah they switched to unity!" Or it could be "Man ubuntu really took off when they switched to unity and then spent a year getting it tweaked just right." 

Speaking of tweaked just right. Someone needs to make a quick little app that can move the friggin buttons to the right and put the menu back on the windows!

---

### Post by TwoStep on 2011-05-03
> **Learning Linux 2011 said:**
> My computer is now crashing endlessly after upgrading to 11.04.
maybe is not your hardware supported

---

### Post by Sef on 2011-05-03
Moved to recurring discussions.

---

### Post by beew on 2011-05-03
> **ant2ne said:**
> 

Speaking of tweaked just right. Someone needs to make a quick little app that can move the friggin buttons to the right and put the menu back on the windows!

Putting the menu back to application windows is easy, just uninsall indicator-appmenu and the global menu is gone.

There are also less drastic options [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/03/disable-appmenu-global-menu-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/03/disable-appmenu-global-menu-in-ubuntu.html)

But putting the buttons on the right is tough, as now maximized windows take up the top "panel" as well, so you can't move the buttons without changing the layout of the top panel but unfortunately it is basically not customizable. You can probably move the buttons in non maximized windows to the right but then when you maximize them the buttons switch to the left, it is probably better to keep the buttons consistently on the left if you cannot change the location of the buttons on maximized windows instead of having them moving around.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-05-03
"11.05 or 11.06"   ?

Uhm, What? lol

Releases don't work that way. 

 I thought 11.04 would be a failure myself..
But Been using it 3 or 4 days now and it's working perfectly!
its actually very nice! 

So no, Not a mistake.

Maybe a little rushed... but by no means a "mistake".

Im actually very impressed with it! :D ,3

---

### Post by Flexserve on 2011-05-07
"Hey remember that ubuntu? That was a pretty cool distro. What ever happened to them? Oh yeah they switched to unity!"
 
Already saying it. LOL

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-05-07
I still think Unity will round out. :) I am looking forward to seeing it hit other distros even if other people are not.

---

### Post by AmpersUK on 2011-05-07
> **NightwishFan said:**
> I still think Unity will round out. :) I am looking forward to seeing it hit other distros even if other people are not.

Not sure if I am, Unity is what will make Ubuntu stand out from everything else. I would prefer only Ubuntu to use it, at least for a year or so until it gets really on top of the market.

I am quite happy to hear the views of people who don't like it, but as Mark Shuttleworth made $580,000,000 before he was 25, I am prepared to assume he knows what he is doing. And after all, with Ubuntu he is doing more in bringing Ubuntu to the wider marketplace than any other distro.

My advice for people who hate it is to switch to one of the other distros. Myself? I really like its potential and am perfectly happy to remain with Ubuntu and Unity.

For those a little less bright, I repeat what has been said many times before, **you can still use Gnome instead of Ubuntu just by switching to it.**

---

### Post by satanselbow on 2011-05-07
> **AmpersUK said:**
> For those a little less bright, I repeat what has been said many times before, **you can still use Gnome instead of Ubuntu just by switching to it.**

But not for long... for those not wanting the "new" dash style ui will find themselves moving to LXDE / XFDE etc or sticking with an increasingly unsupported OS. All sounds a bit Bill Gates to me... and without wanting to defend the **** you can still choose "Windows Classic" in W7 if you don't want to use the aero ui.

Nutty is no less or no more stable than any other previous Ubuntu release AFAIK. The "this / that no longer work" type posts are no more or less than with previous releases and not to be unexpected.

My biggest irk - as previously posted - is that I really do not see the point of Unity when it brings nothing to the game that Gnome3 did not cover already and that Gnome3 / Unity cannot (currently) co-exist or be offered as options. I think a true "official" GUBUNTU release is a necessity. I have installed G3 onto Xubuntu and prefer it handsdown to the official Unity release. The differences between the Unity/G3 are really not that vast but Unity does seem to be something of a G3 downgrade or feature limited version.

Upgrades generally - especially those relating to default UI that enforce a change in workflow are never likely to be applauded by all - but that my friends is progress ;)

---

### Post by ant2ne on 2011-05-13
Yeah,

I did give in an honest try. And I didn't like it. Unity is just not what I'm looking for in a Desktop. Lots of subtle things bug me.

I think this is a good time to give mint a try. I'm already a fan of mintppc.org!

---

### Post by skdwivedi on 2011-05-15
No may not be. Problem could be your or my mc. Aur may be because upgrade has not been tested properly. The problem I am facing is, Sometimes mouse gets locked. I mean I can still move mouse but can not select any window ie it does not provide any click. But I could still use keyboard. This is frustrating. It happens only when I need to get some info urgently. Surprisingly after some time ( may be 30 min or so) it recovers. But I get this issue 2-3 times a day. ( I do not use windows(xp or 7). I am using ubuntu for past 3 years(since ubuntu 8:04).

---

### Post by VOT Productions on 2011-05-15
> **ki4jgt said:**
> Unity will take some getting used to. . . I personally don't like it b/c it doesn't offer the security of normal desktops. There's no hiding what you're doing, when someone enters the room. The sidebar constantly tries to hide from me, even when I've placed my mouse on it. The shortcuts are in no way customizable. There is no show desktop. At first, I was told that it was because I didn't like change. I can agree with that. This desktop is change, and I don't like some of it's features. Some of them make programming and doing things (other than browsing the web) very complicated if you're using a netbook, all the icons in the sidebar seem to want to ignore you. It's not perfect, but it's original! :-) It is an expiriment, like anything else in life. It's purpose is to be beneficial to everyone, and for that I think they have done a great job. It sets an entirely new quality standard in desktop assistance and flashiness. but. . . and here the clause, beneficial to everyone means that input has to be taken from everyone. . . on a system which was built on ALL new technology, Because it is new, there will be flaws, but because it is new, it is bold. It's attempting things which have not been attempted before. It's attempting to change the way we associate with computers. I like it, but I don't, as of now, the reasons I use Ubuntu for, Unity complicates, but in the future, who knows? Unity may inspire Microsoft itself. I like where it's headed though.

There is a even better way to hide your work. ALT+Arrowkeys.

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-05-16
I don't think 11.04 was a mistake, however, I simply feel that the development of Unity for 11.04 has not been given enough time.  Personally I think Canonical should have released 11.04 with Gnome 2 only and continued development of Unity for 11.10.

Before anyone says it, I know they are continuing to develop Unity for 11.10 I just think that Unity was too early to be released.

---

