---
title: "32 on 64?"
date: 2008-09-13
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by EnGorDiaz on 2008-09-13
i know this is a stupid question but can i use the 32 bit version cus i really dont like all the crappy incapability issues with programs on 64

(i think i know the answer already to this but yeah just making sure)

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-13
Does no one do a search on this subject before posting? There must be 100's af threads all asking/saying the same thing.

Yes, you can run 32 bit on 64 bit architecture. But what 'issues' are you referring to? I only know of one: Java browser plugins.

---

### Post by EnGorDiaz on 2008-09-13
> **phenest said:**
> Does no one do a search on this subject before posting? There must be 100's af threads all asking/saying the same thing.

Yes, you can run 32 bit on 64 bit architecture. But what 'issues' are you referring to? I only know of one: Java browser plugins.

also opengl in games and stuff thats what i have heard theres some very big reviews on 64 describing the good and the bad

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-13
Are you referring to Linux games or Windows games (via Wine)? I've had no problem's with games at all.

---

### Post by Rhubarb on 2008-09-13
> **EnGorDiaz said:**
> also opengl in games and stuff thats what i have heard theres some very big reviews on 64 describing the good and the bad

That's rubbish.
I've got 64bit Ubuntu 8.04 here, I'm running quake1-4, ET:QW, Nexuiz, sauerbraten, assault cube, world of padman, postal 2, and UT2004 fine with no problems
I can run quake 3 / sauerbraten / audiosurf / Portal in wine with no problems.  3D acceleration works fine.

I've got a 512MB geforce 7950 gfx card and all is well on my 64bit Ubuntu System.

Yes you can use the 32bit if you really want to, but why?  You've got a 64bit CPU, why not use it all?

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-09-13
> **EnGorDiaz said:**
>  i really dont like all the crappy incapability issues with programs on 64


Yet another misinformed and downright wrong statement. You have swallowed FUD hook line and sinker.

---

### Post by Novega on 2008-09-13
I also pulled half the sparkplug wires off my Ferrari...and only drive at the posted speed limit :p

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-13
> also opengl in games and stuff thats what i have heard theres some very big reviews on 64 describing the good and the bad


Could you please specify what you software you are talking about?  Otherwise as Kilz posted, what you are saying is just FUD.

---

### Post by insane_alien on 2008-09-14
opengl compiles for 64-bit no bother. never noticed anyproblems.

---

### Post by EnGorDiaz on 2008-09-23
well i got my new system everything works great under the 32 bit ubuntu

---

### Post by EnGorDiaz on 2008-09-23
> **Sef said:**
> Could you please specify what you software you are talking about?  Otherwise as Kilz posted, what you are saying is just FUD.

oh well it doesnt matter now

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-09-23
>  			 		   		 		 		well i got my new system everything works great under the 32 bit ubuntu

You haven't been reading the thread you started perhaps? Sunday drive if you want to, but you don't have to!

[quote=novega]I also pulled half the sparkplug wires off my Ferrari...and only drive at the posted speed limit :razz:[/quote]

---

### Post by Idefix82 on 2008-09-23
Of course it does but it's probably slower than it could be. How much RAM do you have?

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-09-23
> **EnGorDiaz said:**
> oh well it doesnt matter now

Yes it does matter. I would like you to back up the statement you made with some facts.

> **EnGorDiaz said:**
> i know this is a stupid question but can i use the 32 bit version cus** i really dont like all the crappy incapability issues with programs on 64**

This comment suggests there is something wrong with 64bit. Share with us the exact applications or we all know that none exist.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-23
>  				 				**Re: 32 on 64?** 			
 			 			 		   		 		 		 	Quote:
 	 	 		 			 				 					Originally Posted by **EnGorDiaz** 					[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/viewpost.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5839687#post5839687") 				
 				*oh well it doesnt matter now*
 			 		 	 	 
Yes it does matter. I would like you to back up the statement you made with some facts.

 	Quote:
 	 	 		 			 				 					Originally Posted by **EnGorDiaz** 					[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/viewpost.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5780946#post5780946") 				
 				*i know this is a stupid question but can i use the 32 bit version cus** i really dont like all the crappy incapability issues with programs on 64***
 			 		 	 	 
This comment suggests there is something wrong with 64bit. Share with us the exact applications or we all know that none exist.


Since to OP has failed to back up what they say, this belongs in Recurring Discussions.

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2008-09-23
:lolflag: uh uh uh this belongs to useless discussions :lolflag:

(Sorry could not resist).

---

### Post by EnGorDiaz on 2008-10-06
> **Jouke74 said:**
> :lolflag: uh uh uh this belongs to useless discussions :lolflag:

(Sorry could not resist).

i agree there

---

