---
title: "64 bit"
date: 2010-07-25
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by corncob on 2010-07-25
On the Ubuntu Download Page
[http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download)
you're given the choice
> 32-bit - Recommended for most users

64-bit - Not recommended for daily desktop usage
Is 64-bit not recommended even if you have a 64-bit machine or are they assuming "most users" have only 32 bits?

---

### Post by hansdown on 2010-07-25
Hi corncob.

That page hasn't been updated.

I'm running 64bit 10.04.

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-07-25
See post 62 in this bug report for the "official" explanation.

Pretty weak, but there you go.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website-content/+bug/585940](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website-content/+bug/585940)

Also search the forum, there are a few threads on this, if it isn't already a recurring discussion, it will be soon. ;-)

---

### Post by WRDN on 2010-07-25
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1526391](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1526391)

---

### Post by corncob on 2010-07-25
Thanks Guys and/or Gals.  I see I'm not the only one to notice that. I initially ignored it but then I couldn't get my new Canon MP640 printer to work on 64-bit so I thought maybe there was something to it.  If one had the disk space he could install both 32 and 64-bit versions and see which one he ends up using.

---

### Post by Irony on 2010-07-25
I was a bit apprehensive about installing 64 bit but it turned out to be no more difficult to use than 32 bit... and its certainly much faster on media processing.

---

### Post by murderslastcrow on 2010-07-25
64-bit's benefits far outweigh the smaller issues that may pop up. Most of the bigger problems people had with it were resolved a couple years ago. The reason they say this is because they don't want people with older computers downloading 64-bit because it sounds cool and realizing it won't work on their single core CPU, or even worse thinking that Ubuntu is a broken P.O.S.

But yeah, use 64 bit if you have a dual core or higher. You can install 32-bit libraries and use closed source 32-bit binaries in many cases, if you ever run into them.

---

### Post by eyeofreason on 2010-07-25
Agreed, 64-bit advantages out weigh the down side. I have a machine running 64 and 1 running 32 with nearly the same hardware (my wife's). I prefer to use the 64-bit. It's faster especial with media applications. I've been seriously considering reformatting her computer and upgrading to 64-bit.  

And don't let anyone tell you that memory should way into your decision :D, however if you have 8 gig in your machine it would make more since to use the 64-bit IMO.

---

### Post by jerenept on 2010-07-25
> **murderslastcrow said:**
> 64-bit's benefits far outweigh the smaller issues that may pop up. Most of the bigger problems people had with it were resolved a couple years ago. The reason they say this is because they don't want people with older computers downloading 64-bit because it sounds cool and realizing it won't work on their single core CPU, or even worse thinking that Ubuntu is a broken P.O.S.

But yeah, use 64 bit if you have a dual core or higher. You can install 32-bit libraries and use closed source 32-bit binaries in many cases, if you ever run into them.

I feel insulted... my single core AMD Sempron runs 64-bit Ubuntu, Gentoo, Sabayon, PC-BSD, etc.

BTW, 64-bit is totally recommended if your computer has a recent processor. Many, if not all processors made in the last 5 years have 64-bit support.

---

### Post by eyeofreason on 2010-07-25
I agree jerenept, I don't see what multi-core processing has to do with it.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-07-25
moved to recurring

---

