---
title: "8.04 vs. 9.04-- Advice for a Linux newbie?"
date: 2009-05-17
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by tcpage on 2009-05-17
So, I just switched over to Ubuntu fulltime the other day after dual-booting with Windows XP for the past couple of weeks. I managed to crash Windows for the nth time that day and decided I was done with it, wiped the drive, and put in my Jaunty disk to start fresh.

I have to say, I'm very impressed with this system so far. Having never been much a fan of Microsoft, I always assumed my next computer would be a mac, but I may have been converted...

That said, I've noticed a few hiccups when I've tried to get software to do what I wanted, and after perusing these forums, I've begun to wonder if I should have gone with the older, presumably more stable release.

So, do you think Hardy Heron would be more "Newbie Friendly" than Jaunty Jackalope?

---

### Post by Keithhed on 2009-05-17
Thats a rather hard question to answer..  

There are many mixed results from installs of the last few Ubuntu releases.  It seems to depend mainly on hardware, such as graphics card, motherboard etc.  What works for all may not work for the few it seems..

My best advise would be to try a few versions and stick with whichever works the best for you.  :)

---

### Post by vegetarianshrimp on 2009-05-17
+1 for Hardy, just because it is supposedly more stable and has support for longer. If you only have a few problems with Jaunty stay with it, and take a while and try to fix them. Look them up on google, ubuntu forums, or start a new thread. Jaunty, In my opinion is much better than Hardy. If there are too many problems with Jaunty on your computer, than switch to Hardy.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-05-17
I guess technically he could always install 8.04 then just do a dist-upgrade if he doesn't like 8.04.

---

### Post by ssri on 2009-05-17
I would burn livecds of both versions and see which one agrees with your system configuration the most.  Play with the default video drivers, wifi, etc.  As for me, I stuck with Kubuntu Intrepid due to Jaunty's wonky wifi (since been fixed I heard) and severe regression in video quality and support (thanks ATI! #-o).  Good Luck!

---

### Post by Keithhed on 2009-05-17
Live CDs work well, I also dual boot to check different versions.  I'm currentyl on my 7th or 8th iteration of Ubuntu.  I have lost count.  I tried Intrepid 32 and 64 bit, Jaunty 32 and 64 RC and release versions on different hardware (standard hard drive, Raid setup)  oh, and Xubuntu 8.10.  I am the type that is always tweaking until I can break it, then find out how to fix it and see what else is out there.  :)

---

### Post by tcpage on 2009-05-17
Thanks for pointing out that the Live! CD and dual booting are still viable options.
 
Having just done both with Windows, that should have been obvious, but didn't occur to me at all. D'oh!

I'll be sure to report my results.

P.S. I know what you mean about the ATI graphics drivers... that was the first thing I broke a couple of weeks ago.

---

### Post by armandh on 2009-05-17
> **ssri said:**
> I would burn livecds of both versions and see which one agrees with your system configuration the most.  Play with the default video drivers, wifi, etc. 

Yep it all depends on the noobs hardware.
xubuntu may work best on some old junk.
9.04 worked OOTB on an 866 P-III 512mb mem, 64mb video card.
not so good on faster but lesser on board video

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-05-17
Every new release of Ubuntu contains features and enhancements designed to make the system more newbie-friendly as well as more convenient to long-time users. No comparison - Ubuntu 9.04 is more newbie-friendly than 8.04.

If you are using Linux in the workplace, or if you specifically want a "stable-as-in-unchanging" software configuration, then 8.04 is for you.

When we talk about stability in an LTS release, we're talking about "there won't be any unexpected changes in the software". You won't find Amarok 2 in Ubuntu 8.04 as it's a completely different program to Amarok 1.x, but any security fixes from the newer version will be backported to the older version.

---

### Post by Harpie Queen on 2009-05-17
I went straight to 9.04, and I'm finding it very easy to get used to. I'm coming into it from xp. I spent the first day of use fumbling around rather blindly, but within 2 days I had adapted to it better than I have ever been able to use vista. We had vista on my secondary computer of use (shared) for about a year before I got ubuntu.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-05-17
> **tcpage said:**
> That said, I've noticed a few hiccups when I've tried to get software to do what I wanted

Like what?

8.04 is perhaps more tried and tested, but Jaunty seems pretty stable to me.

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-05-17
This is a recurring discussion.   The answer is use what works best with your hardware.

---

### Post by tcpage on 2009-05-18
> **ugm6hr said:**
> Like what?

8.04 is perhaps more tried and tested, but Jaunty seems pretty stable to me.

Mostly related to the ATI graphics driver, like I said. I got that sorted out. I've also been trying to install a couple of third-party programs using instructions that were written for 8.04 and 8.10, and I wonder if things have changed for 9.04.

---

### Post by tcpage on 2009-05-18
So I've been using the 8.04 Live CD, and I have to say, I think I like Jaunty a lot better so far... although I have yet to crash anything running Hardy...

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2009-05-18
8.04 was my first Linux, and I found it quite easy to use. And by now, its more bug free, stable, tested. My one gripe with Hardy Heron was accessing a Windows Workgroup. It simply refused to do so. 8.10 and 9.04 both worked flawlessly with my existing Windows network, however, 9.04 felt definately like a new release, the usual kinks like. So for me, I'd vote for 8.04. Its the LTS for a reason ;)

---

### Post by XubuRoxMySox on 2009-05-18
Jaunty is great so far for this newbie! Gnome was very unfamiliar, but it's nice with all the bells and whistles. For eye candy Kubuntu is great and looks kinda "Windowsy" so it's popular with people transitioning from Windows.

I need a simple, "familiar" looking graphical desktop too, but a lightweight one. [LXDE]("http://lxde.org") (available in the Ubuntu repositories) fits the bill for me. I first used it to equip Crunchbang (an Ubuntu-based distro designed to be especially lightweight for use on older hardware with *no* desktop environment at all) with a newbie-friendly Windows-like simplicity. But I like it so much I use it in place of the Gnome default desktop on my newer Ubuntu machine.

Go with **Jaunty!** It's awesome and very likely everything will simply work right out of the box.

-Robin

---

