---
title: "11.04 11.10"
date: 2011-10-26
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by linuxonbute on 2011-10-26
I have tried 11.04 and did not like unity at all especially the way it dumb's everything down and hides useful stuff and how old fashioned and clunky the desktop looks. I just tried 11.10 in the hope that canonical had come to their senses and improved it but no good.
I have enjoyed using ubuntu for a long, long time but unless it gets back to being sensible by the time ubuntu drops support for 10.04 I will probably migrate to Mint. 
I applaud Canonical for trying something new but to make such a mess is to me a serious mistake. I knew that unity would be different but this is, to me the worst thing they could have done to set back linux for the masses and to turn long time users away.

Why oh why is so much changed just to get unity running. Surely all this hiding of useful stuff away can't be vital can it?

I have always kept my /home on it's own partition. I have rarely had success with upgrades so do a custom install leaving my /home as is and formatting all other partitions. Well it always worked until 11.04 which ended up with a mixed mess of unity and my old menus. Tried it again with 11.10 and a mess again but different. Good job i did this all on my spare machine and not this one with 10.10 on it. Reverting to 10.04 on the spare one. I will still read up on overcoming problems but until it works fine for me there is no way I can support family and friends for 11.04 or 11.10. I have a friend staying with us just now so burning a 10.04 disc for him to use. let's hope he doesn't try to upgrade!!!!

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-10-26
*Thread moved to **Recurring Discussions**.*

---

