---
title: "32 vs 64... whats the choice these days?"
date: 2008-07-26
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-07-26
I was only able to find a post from over 2 years ago... I'm sure technology has increased greatly so.

I have just built a quad core machine and was thinking of running the 64 bit to take advantage of my machine.

But... are these still flash, java and wine problems?

I am going to want to play games like Ages of Empires and Warcraft III... so if wine isnt working flawlessly on the 64... I will just roll the 32 I guess.

Thoughts?

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-07-26
Moved to Recurring Discussions.

I've never tried running 32 bit libs in 64 bits, so I can't speak to how that works. I will say that Flash (with nspluginwrapper) and Wine worked fine for me, insofar as either of those applications "works."

---

### Post by lukjad on 2008-07-26
This seems to be one of those topics that you have to choose whom you trust. There will most likely be two camps, one for 32 bit and another for 64 bit. There may be one or two that will sit on the fence and say both are good.

---

### Post by siimo on 2008-07-26
32bit is the way to go buddy.  Headaches for 0.05% speed improvement is not worth it.

---

### Post by lukjad on 2008-07-26
And so it begins...;)

---

### Post by Barrucadu on 2008-07-26
I use 64-bit, I have found Flash works great (in Opera, at least), and so does Java. I haven't tried WINE.
If you have a 64-bit processor, why not just give it a try and see if it all works? if not, go back to 32-bit.

---

### Post by samjh on 2008-07-27
64-bit here.

Flash works well.  Java also works, but applets do not (no 64-bit Java plugin for Mozilla).  However, you can use gcjwebplugin to run most Java applets.

Wine works perfectly.

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-07-28
I just installed the 32 bit... just wanted an easy startup... everything is running perfect so far.  No errors, havent really done much, but everything is recongnized.

But as I am making changes and updates to the 32 bit and tweaking and changing it to my likings...

Can I just "upgrade" to the 64 bit and keep all of my settings changes, or will I have to go back through everything I am doing now?

Not totally sure if I want 64... but I'd like to try it.

---

### Post by Barrucadu on 2008-07-28
You can save your /home folder, but everything you have to be reinstalled.

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-07-28
what is saved in the "home folder" then?

---

### Post by miggols99 on 2008-07-28
> **siimo said:**
> 32bit is the way to go buddy.  Headaches for 0.05% speed improvement is not worth it.
So what are these headaches?

---

### Post by waapwoop1 on 2008-07-28
I am trying out 64 bit on my home PC.

First thing i noticed is that i could not get niswrapper to find my wireless usb adapter. 32 bit could do it easily.
so i plugged in an ethernet because i really wanted to try it out.
Everything else seems to work ok.
The other thing i noticed was that i could no longer use the nvidia x control panel. I could on 32 bit, but can't on 64.
I don't notice much difference so i'm not sure why i'm using 64 bit except my processor is 64 bit, lol. 
I have 32 bit on my laptop and 64 bit on desktop, so i guess i'm covered in all events. I'm hoping the more people that use 64 the better it gets. Though really it seems like its harder to get things to work, and i am yet to see a benefit.
Firefox looks different though

---

### Post by Barrucadu on 2008-07-29
> **PsychedelicWonders said:**
> what is saved in the "home folder" then?
All your settings and files.

> **waapwoop1 said:**
> I am trying out 64 bit on my home PC.
Though really it seems like its harder to get things to work, and i am yet to see a benefit.
I'm guessing you don't do anything like transcoding media files, or running Folding@Home then.

---

### Post by geoken on 2008-07-29
Can someone post an advantage of 64bit (beyond the RAM allocation). If it's speed can you post a link to a bench.

The last time I can remember having a 32bit processor was more than 4 years ago yet I've never considered running a 64bit system (with the exception of Vista 64) because I've never seen any tangible evidence showing the advantage.

---

### Post by hessiess on 2008-07-29
> Can someone post an advantage of 64bit (beyond the RAM allocation). If it's speed can you post a link to a bench.

besides 3D rendering, vidieo encoding, editing large images and the like 64 bit is pritymuch useless.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-07-29
> besides 3D rendering, vidieo encoding, editing large images and the like 64 bit is pritymuch useless.


You realise that any 64 bit application will outperform the equivelant 32...also have up to now only found 1 program where I had to use 32 bit drivers :)

---

### Post by mips on 2008-07-29
64bit is fine. Never used Wine. Java works fine. Flash on the other I would say does not 'really' work on 32bit or 64bit.

64bit will use more memory though because you are working with data structures 64bits wide.

---

### Post by geoken on 2008-07-29
> **hessiess said:**
> besides 3D rendering, vidieo encoding, editing large images and the like 64 bit is pritymuch useless.

Got a link? 


edit(never mind, I found one)
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=998&num=3]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=998&num=3")

[IMG]http://www.phoronix.com/data/img/results/998/06.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-07-29
> **mips said:**
> 64bit is fine. Never used Wine. Java works fine. Flash on the other I would say does not 'really' work on 32bit or 64bit.

64bit will use more memory though because you are working with data structures 64bits wide.

So with the 64 bit version... wine is not needed to run applications?  Games etc?

how much memory is needed to run the 64 successfully?

---

### Post by mips on 2008-07-29
> **PsychedelicWonders said:**
> So with the 64 bit version... wine is not needed to run applications?  Games etc?

how much memory is needed to run the 64 successfully?

I never said wine is not needed. What I said is that I dont use it.

Generally 64bit apps are slightly bigger than their 32bit counterparts. I have used 64bit on 1GB of ram no problems. I have also used it on 3GB and currently using 4GB. It is not required to have so much ram I just spoiled myself ;)

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-07-29
> **geoken said:**
> Got a link? 


edit(never mind, I found one)
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=998&num=3]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=998&num=3")

[IMG]http://www.phoronix.com/data/img/results/998/06.png[/IMG]


is this really a noticable difference?

Do things look brighter, or more vivid with 64?

I may try running it just because...

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-07-29
Its hard to buy a new system these days which isn't 64bit, isnt it about time you tried a 64bit OS, we will all be using them in the future and now that most programs are compatible with 64bit it may be time to take the plunge :)

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-07-30
Flash: Nspluginwrapper or 32 bit firefox
Wine: "Just works" (sudo apt-get install wine)
Java: 4 Options:
1. Use OpenJDK/Icedtea or whatever the heck it's called
2. Use 32 Bit Firefox
3. Use Konqueror, embeds the 64 bit Java (does it differently than Firefox does) and works fine for most things (Unfortunately not the Full screen Runescape :()
4. Wait for Sun to release a 64 bit Plugin (they said it will happen by the time Java 7 is released, it's in Beta right now I belive)

Overall I'd say it's worth it [img]http://www.zybez.net/community/style_emoticons/default/thumbsup.gif[/img]

PS: UF really needs that emoticon ^ I can't live without it [img]http://www.zybez.net/community/style_emoticons/default/laugh.gif[/img] <-- Can't live without that either :-P

---

### Post by Dharmachakra on 2008-07-30
I run x64 simply because I believe staying at x32 hinders progress. But, that's easy for me to say, I've never had any problems running x64. :neutral:

---

### Post by Barrucadu on 2008-07-30
Another potential solution for Flash/Java on 64bit is just to use Opera. You don't need nspluginwrapper and it works great.

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-07-30
Well like I said, 32 runs fine so far.  I have to re-install it anyways because Im going to get windows xp here in a day or two, so I need to install that and partition the drives to add ubuntu back on, might as well try out the 64 and see how it runs.

I'll reference this thread when I need to dig deeper on the particular applications I need to make it run smooth.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-07-30
The only link I can think you may need to get it up and running how your 32bit was is the flash install script, for the flash browser plugin.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=772490](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=772490)

---

### Post by sydbat on 2008-07-30
As others have stated, it is personal preference. I use 64bit successfully...and 32bit on my other box.

I think that, if we (by "we", I mean everyone who owns a computer) use 64bit more and more, the commercial OS makers will begin to shift their 'normal' users to their 64bit systems...which can only be positive as the future becomes the present. Even Microsoft has a 64bit version of Vista, but they are reticent to market it as a viable alternative to their 32bit OS because of the $$ invested in "developing" Vista 32bit. If they had simply offered 64bit, their sales may have been better, even with the 'driver' issues, etc.

My $.1/2

---

### Post by V1nd1c74 on 2008-07-31
64-bit's the future. It's getting harder and harder to purchase a computer with 32-bit architecture. Who would wanna be confined to only 4 gig of ram give or take anyways?

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-07-31
> **V1nd1c74 said:**
> 64-bit's the future. It's getting harder and harder to purchase a computer with 32-bit architecture. Who would wanna be confined to only 4 gig of ram give or take anyways?

Why, what are you allowed to go up to on a 64 system when it comes to ram?

---

### Post by geoken on 2008-07-31
> **PsychedelicWonders said:**
> Why, what are you allowed to go up to on a 64 system when it comes to ram?

Most are artificially limited because the actual theoretical maximum is is over 17 billion gigabytes of ram.

---

### Post by geoken on 2008-07-31
Can anyone comment on their experiences with running 32 bit apps?

Is it as easy as grabbing the 32 bit version of a deb and installing that? For example say I wanted to run Firefox 32, could I just find a 32 bit deb and install it? If I'm running Firefox 32, could I just download flashplayer and run it's installer?

---

