---
title: "Any win7 adopters here?"
date: 2009-10-16
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by maflynn on 2009-10-16
Any people here tempted to install/run win7?

with the noise being generated by windows 7 increasing as the release date draws close, I'm curious to see if anyone plans on buying/installing it.

The Macintosh related forums that I frequent have people eagerly excited, in fact some are even hosting a windows 7 party :confused:

Personally, I find an OS that not only needs activation but phones home to make sure your not a thief a little distasteful.  To that end, I'm not planning on it.

---

### Post by Regenweald on 2009-10-16
So we're b**ching about windows again then ? good stuff. Lemme pull my notes from the last anti windows thread...:rolleyes:

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-10-16
So many of these threads... Over and over again. 

I have it in a Virtual Box.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2009-10-16
> **Regenweald said:**
> So we're b**ching about windows again then ? good stuff. Lemme pull my notes from the last anti windows thread...:rolleyes:

This. If you don't like it, don't use it.

Personally I'm still running Win7 RC on my HTPC, but I'm debating if I want to switch to a different OS.

---

### Post by Nevon on 2009-10-16
I got a free Windows 7 professional license via my university (Microsoft Developer Network Academic Alliance), and I'm currently dual booting that with Ubuntu 9.04 on my laptop. I don't really boot into it much, but I think it's pretty decent. Stays out of my way for the most part.

---

