---
title: "11.10 worth getting?"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by Thrashrokz33 on 2011-10-14
I've been hearing that Unity is still the default. Can you still switch to the classic gnome shell? I personally find Unity to be an annoyance, and if they're going to keep forcing it through all future releases, that worries me. It's a stylish design, but just not functional in my eyes.

---

### Post by Larkspur on 2011-10-14
You can switch to either gnome classic or gnome shell, but you have to download them from the Software Centre first. They're running well in Oneiric, last time I checked.

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2011-10-14
You can also choose any other window manager, like KDE, XFCE, or LXDE.

---

### Post by Greg Mueller on 2011-10-14
I would not upgrade if I knew what I know now.. I hate it

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-10-14
Hi, I recommend backing up your important data and doing a clean install it will be a lot faster and a lot less likely to have problems.
Thank you

---

### Post by Meelad on 2011-10-14
I made a fresh install.. Good first impression.. Definitely worth trying..

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-10-14
> **Greg Mueller said:**
> I would not upgrade if I knew what I know now.. I hate it

[LIST]
[*]There are release notes
[*]There has been a lot of pre-release coverage of what to expect
[*]There's a LiveCD to test
[/LIST]
If there's a next time, always download the LiveCD, check how it plays with your set-up and then decide.

All the best ...

---

### Post by Vlet on 2011-10-14
If you don't use Unity, DO NOT INSTALL 11.10

---

### Post by Toafan on 2011-10-14
First Impression: Totally worth getting.

As was mentioned, make sure you back up your stuff first. I'd actually encourage you to create a livecd and try it from there first, you can always upgrade/install later.

Unity seem more mature to me in 11.10 than in 11.04. Still needed tweaking, but it's nice.

You can use different interfaces, see here: [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/10/things-to-tweak-after-installing-ubuntu.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/10/things-to-tweak-after-installing-ubuntu.html)

I'd agree that Unity isn't all it can be, currently. But I like where they seem to be headed.

---

### Post by Greg Mueller on 2011-10-15
> **vasa1 said:**
> [LIST]
[*]There are release notes
[*]There has been a lot of pre-release coverage of what to expect
[*]There's a LiveCD to test
[/LIST]
If there's a next time, always download the LiveCD, check how it plays with your set-up and then decide.

All the best ...


I gave my opinion. I stand by it.

I think it's crap

Now I have to spend days undoing the damage to my system. I trust Ubuntu no longer

---

### Post by Vlet on 2011-10-15
> **Greg Mueller said:**
> 
Now I have to spend days undoing the damage to my system. I trust Ubuntu no longer

^^ this

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-10-15
> **Vlet said:**
> If you don't use Unity, DO NOT INSTALL 11.10

FUD.

Unity is the default desktop environment, but Gnome Fallback Session (which has the user interface of the Gnome 2 shell) is available in the repositories, along with all other desktop environments that Ubuntu has recently had available to it.

If you don't use Unity, you can still upgrade; either try Unity again as it's been tweaked somewhat, or install a different DE.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2011-10-15
> **wildmanne39 said:**
> Hi, I recommend backing up your important data and doing a clean install it will be a lot faster and a lot less likely to have problems.
Thank you

+1  After all these years I decided to try the update manager's upgrade to a new release - being 11.10 in this instance.  I have always backed up what I needed and done a clean install, due to problems reported by others.  I took that chance this time and guess what - I need to format and install it from scratch due to some rather odd things happening.

Keep in mind, nobody can force you to update - this isn't Windows.  10.04 is the latest long-term support release, so you could run it until the next long-term support release in 04/2012.  About the only reason I do these intermediate upgrades is because I want to be at the release that most people will be asking questions about on the forums, and sometimes it's a phased approach to the next long-term support release, making the "shock" a little less.

Dave ;)

---

### Post by clinton137 on 2011-10-15
> **Greg Mueller said:**
> I gave my opinion. I stand by it.

I think it's crap

Now I have to spend days undoing the damage to my system. I trust Ubuntu no longer

So what is crap about it? As you say you are entitled to your opinion, however, why not explain what you do not like about it. I have never spent days installing, repairing or upgrading Ubuntu.

Constructive criticism is always welcome, it also helps the developers to provide us with a brilliant and FREE OS. :D

---

### Post by Brushstroke on 2011-10-15
I didn't like Unity in 11.04, and I still don't like it in 11.10. I dedicated about 40 GB of my hard drive to it and have already gotten rid of it. It's more polished this time around, sure, and the dash is nice. It just feels unintuitive to me, and on my system it's rather slow compared to my blazing fast Lucid install. Also, I've noticed some annoying graphical glitches still present in this release and I had this problem when I activated the 'fglrx' driver, as indicated in the picture: 

[http://imgur.com/1xzoS](http://imgur.com/1xzoS) 

My launcher disappeared, and I was greeted with this very basic panel menu at the top and my wallpaper. That's it. What gives? 

I'm just glad I didn't overwrite Lucid. Unity still gets a thumbs down from me. :|

---

### Post by popper668 on 2011-10-15
barely had any time to adjust to 11.04 had only switched over from windows 2 weeks ago, all things change so I will take this new upgrade and run with it. 

my impression is Awesome!! thank you

---

### Post by Calerid on 2011-10-15
Hi,

  I do have to say, I was not the slightest impressed by 11.10. I did the update 5 minutes after the upgrade released. I am not a fan of Unity, it feels to me like a bad knock off of Apple GUI. The OS was slow to boot and longer to load. I tried playing around with the GUI unity had to offer, I just was not able to get use to it. I then installed the gnome fall back, the task bar appeared weird and patchy. it was sad and disappointing :(, not my Ubuntu...

---

### Post by JazzPotato on 2011-10-15
I like unity, but in natty there were alot of annoying bugs. If they iron out the current ones in oneiric It will be a big improvement in my opinion

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-10-15
Moved to Recurring.

For people wanting the newest apps but don't like Unity Xubuntu is a good alternative.

---

