---
title: "16.04 the worst that happenned to me since Vista"
date: 2017-02-06
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by fonsecaluis on 2017-02-06
16.04 Lo peor que me ha pasado desde Vista. Ahi les dejo eso. No wifi, no software center, no compatibility at all. I'm a Ubuntu user since 2004 but now with 16.04 a have a useless computer

---

### Post by geeksmith on 2017-02-06
Would you like to share information that will help fix the problem? I understand the need to vent your frustrations, but this forum is for technical support, not emotional support :D

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2017-02-06
> **geeksmith said:**
> Would you like to share information that will help fix the problem?
That information being stuff like how you installed 16.04, what flavor of Ubuntu you're running, and details of your hardware.

---

### Post by lisati on 2017-02-06
> **fonsecaluis said:**
> 16.04 Lo peor que me ha pasado desde Vista. Ahi les dejo eso. 
Translation, courtesy of Google:
> 16.04 The worst that has happened to me since Vista. There I leave that.

We're not likely to be able to help if that's all we have to go on. :D

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-02-06
Strangely, there's a lot of us using various DE versions of 16.04 that find it running sweetly, with no problems, including me.

Either you are very unlucky, or you have hardware that is not 16.04 friendly, some AMD graphics for example, or you upgraded from version to version without reading all the caveats about doing so.

Tell us more and I promise we will try to help.  As things stand, and with the info you have given we are not able to assist in any way.
> No wifi, no software center, no compatibility at all.
Having been using Ubuntu since 2004, which was the first version produced, you must surely be able to manage by now without the software-centre? Try synaptic which is much better anyway.
No compatibility with what?

---

### Post by QIII on 2017-02-06
When you are ready to request help, please create one post in an appropriate area of the forums for each problem.  Do not create a single post listing all problems.

Now, having heard your complaints here, I see no reason for the community to spend further effort on a non-support thread.

Closed.

---

