---
title: "10.04.1 64-bit - Not recommended for daily desktop usage"
date: 2010-09-12
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by packrat on 2010-09-12
10.04.1 64-bit - Not recommended for daily desktop usage? [http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download)

Why not? What's the story? If not, what is the best 64 bit version for daily desktop usage?

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-09-12
Moved to Recurring Discussions.

Too many people do not know if the 64-bit Ubuntu will work on their system or not; hence, it is easier to tell them to use the 32-bit Ubuntu.

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-09-12
Story ?

Some of it is here

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website-content/+bug/585940](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website-content/+bug/585940)

You'll probably find a load more in these forum, specifically Recurring Discussions.

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-09-12
This comes up all the time lol
64bit in many user's experience is fine, me being one them. I believe that the you quote posted will be taken away from the download page some time in the near future. If you do a search on this forum with that quote, I'm sure there will be many threads returned....

It's your choice really, you should factor in how much RAM you have and what you will be using the OS for

---

### Post by packrat on 2010-09-12
All, thank you for the replies...

---

### Post by beew on 2010-09-12
Some programs don't run on 64 bit or a bit funky (flash?) So if you don't happen to use any of these there should be no problem. But I will stick to 32 bit because I want everything to work without having to worry about it (I could have used 64 bit in one of my laptops but then I think a couple of my programs would be dead in the water) Ubuntu has a PAE kernel anyway  so you can access all the rams in 32 bit and get all the compatibility, it is the best of both world, I don't really see the need of running 64 bit

---

### Post by formaldehyde_spoon on 2010-09-13
> **beew said:**
> Some programs don't run on 64 bit or a bit funky (flash?) So if you don't happen to use any of these there should be no problem. But I will stick to 32 bit because I want everything to work without having to worry about it (I could have used 64 bit in one of my laptops but then I think a couple of my programs would be dead in the water) Ubuntu has a PAE kernel anyway  so you can access all the rams in 32 bit and get all the compatibility, it is the best of both world, I don't really see the need of running 64 bit

Flash works great for me, on my 64 bit 10.04 (so does every other program I've tried)... 

64 bit gives you access to more RAM, on top of a performance increase.
PAE gives you access to more RAM, on top of a performance hit.

---

