---
title: "11.04 is the vista of Ubuntu..."
date: 2011-05-03
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by dctrsatan on 2011-05-03
This upgrade is so bad.  I have had nothing but trouble with it.

Wacom driver is no longer working.
When I revert to classic mode Compiz doesn't work correctly.
The windows freeze which forces me to log out and back into regular 11.04 mode.

I have been looking though the forums and see a lot of other people having pain with this upgrade.  What is everyone else's views on this upgrade?

---

### Post by ssherwood on 2011-05-03
I agreed as I have installed 11.04 on my desktop system and had nothing but trouble, so I downgraded back to 10.10. the wierd thing is though, I have installed 11.04 on my netbook and I have no issues with the system. My theory is that the Unity desktop is more designed for smalll portable devices such as a netbook and not desktop systems. 
 
There should be a feature integrated into the OS like the KDE version, Kubuntu. This OS can recognise if you are using a netbook system or desktop system and switches the interface to match your screen and system configuration.
 
Sorry I cannot help but I am disappointed with the 11.04 on desktop systems as well as the hardware compatility. I had no issues with the beta versions.
 
Stephen

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2011-05-03
Put 11.04 on my laptop and media centre. Both run perfectly, way better than what was on there before (Fuduntu and 10.10 respectively).

---

### Post by ItalOz on 2011-05-03
it costs me to say this but I am very disappointed as well, months ago I had installed the netbook version of Ubuntu and I gave up very soon installing the gnome version.

10.10 was performing so well in terms of rendering, dual monitor, customisability (and the Wacom driver of course!), I'll play around it a little bit but the first impression is bad and as soon as I tried it I jumped over the forums to find out that I am not the only one.

---

### Post by Melotten on 2011-05-03
I can say that I was a bit disappointed in firs instance.
problem with the broadcom wireless, and a desktop manager that in the very beginning is not exactly intuitive, even for someone that is working in the IT industry from quite long.

there is a sort of lack of training, and I think lot of newbies are having a bad experience in Natty now.

From my experience, once you get use to the new way you will find that the interface is not bad as seem at a first look. what is annoing me so much is the fact that I can't really jump from an application to another one without to use the launch bar.

---

### Post by kindledwind on 2011-05-03
I'm kinda bummed about this Unity idea too. Why do people insist on attempting to fix things that aren't broke? I really don't get how someone could think that Unity was an improvement over Gnome & Compiz, or KDE...

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-05-03
My views were not much different than yours, up until a few days ago. 

I thought 11.04/Unity was the worst thing since vista, lol
I used it in virtual box and via USB for a couple months, and there was always some problem or another.  I was really getting fed up and was seriously ready to move to Debian. 

 Then I decided I'll give it one last try with an actual full install,
giving it its own partition..
and Here are my results.. [COLOR=Purple] [>click>  Testimony of a former Anti-Natty advocate, From "kill Natty" to "Keep Natty!". lol]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1747676")[/COLOR]

 Im actually starting to like it! 
The more i use it the more I like it.
I can't believe it! But it's true. lol

A welcome surprise, for sure.

:D <3

---

### Post by pony-tail on 2011-05-03
After spending a fortnight on both now ( I had not used Windows since Win2k )
I found that Vista ( God forbid ) was much better to use than Unity and a little more intuitive .
I am currently trying Gnome 3 with Gnome shell and not liking it much better than Unity . At present my main machines are still running 10.04 LTS until I either find another distro Debian Stable and Mint are looking good or find another DE .
And before any of the fanboys around here say XFCE or LXDE - maybe but they are both pretty crude ( Win2kish ) and KDE 4.x well I would rather Vista
Just a note - I have been a full time Linux user for well in excess of 10 years and not an any way a Microsoft bloatware fan - Just that their product is better to use than what is being served up in the Linux world at present - getting long term Linux users onto windows is NOT the way to go.
Just let me keep my Gnome Panels functionality and I will be fine !

---

### Post by Saner on 2011-05-03
I think thats being a little disrespectful of Vista to be honest.

I only tried Beta2 (for 3 weeks) (when I usually jump in with ubuntu) and went back 10.10.

Unity is awful, and the system was seriously unstable.

I can accept it was a beta but usually I find from Beta 2 onwards to be pretty solid

---

### Post by Asraniel on 2011-05-03
I found kde to be the best desktop around. Specially because you can actually customize it exactly like you want. You can even make it look like unity if you really want to.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-05-03
This is said about every release of Ubuntu I believe. :) Though I will not entirely disagree.. I am not fond of 11.04. It does do a lot right though.

---

### Post by seany_sean on 2011-05-03
I recently installed 11.04 on my system, and to all those who said Beta 1&2 was problematic, I agree. I found that unity just didn't work and my system crashed repeatedly, However I recently took the plunge and installed the 11.04 version on my PC (alongside Windows7 and Ubuntu 10.10) and was quite surprised, the graphics worked perfectly and so did everything else, However I still find myself agreeing with the majority of people who dislike Unity, it seems like a good idea but is next to useless on a dual monitor system, however there is a simple fix, its called "Ubuntu Classic". I just hope that because the Unity is the new default they don't ruin the classic mode for those who don't want Unity.

---

### Post by cyanidejunkie on 2011-05-03
I have been using PC's for over twenty years now (mostly Windows based coding, but some Linux based coding too.. especially over the last few years).

I am currently using it to do development using MonoDevelop (c#), FluentNHibernate, FireBird SuperClassic and serial port communications to external devices.. all from within VirtualBox running on Windows 7 Ultimate 64Bit.

My humble opinion of Unity is that it is an environment oversimplified to the point that the majority of satisfactory users would most likely be new users (new to PC usage in general from both the Windows and Linux worlds). A slightly more hardcore user would possibly not like it and switch to the Ubuntu Classic option at login or maybe some other option. I have also found it to be buggy and just plain irritating to use.
 
A irritation for instance is why do many of my forms lie in the very top-left corner of the screen.. behind the left Unity launchpad and behind the top menu bar? etc. etc.

I dont want to fiddle to make things work.. they should just work, or is that asking too much.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-05-03
> **seany_sean said:**
> ........ however there is a simple fix, its called "Ubuntu Classic". I just hope that because the Unity is the new default they don't ruin the classic mode for those who don't want Unity.

 Not after 11.04.

Once 11.10 gets here, there will be no more classic mode.
Only Unity, or Gnome3/shell.

That's why i just decided to roll with it and try to get used to it..
but Im really not having much trouble getting used to it at all, and like i said..
Im actually liking it! :o

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-05-03
> **cyanidejunkie said:**
> I have been using PC's for over twenty years now (mostly Windows based coding, but some Linux based coding too.. especially over the last few years).

I am currently using it to do development using MonoDevelop (c#), FluentNHibernate, FireBird SuperClassic and serial port communications to external devices.. all from within VirtualBox running on Windows 7 Ultimate 64Bit.

My humble opinion of Unity is that it is an environment oversimplified to the point that the majority of satisfactory users would most likely be new users (new to PC usage in general from both the Windows and Linux worlds). A slightly more hardcore user would possibly not like it and switch to the Ubuntu Classic option at login or maybe some other option. I have also found it to be buggy and just plain irritating to use.
 
A irritation for instance is why do many of my forms lie in the very top-left corner of the screen.. behind the left Unity launchpad and behind the top menu bar? etc. etc.

I dont want to fiddle to make things work.. they should just work, or is that asking too much.

Yes, that is asking too much.  especially since you've been *using* pcs for over twenty years now. (How much free coding have you done for open source?) Take this as a gentle slap from a user who has been *using pcs* and i might add soberly acknowledging their contribution to raising equality in terms of standard of living for much of the worlds Denizens over those same years ++.
     you're chiming in here on the "bash unity" thread.  We have a surplus of complaints and a deficit of suggestions or known fixes.  Although i've been tempted recently to chime in of my own accord, gladly it has turned out that I now rather LIKE UNITY as a result of using it by force.  I've learned one quick and very handy way of using UNITY while letting my brain remain retarded and thinking in terms of earlier GUI's that work/ed well in Ubuntu.  

The method requires two keystrokes, the second of which is the down arrow on the "ALL APPLICATIONS" selection.

---

### Post by waspbloke on 2011-05-03
I wonder if 11.04 is the death knell for my Ubuntu experience. Having spent the last 3 days trying any and every driver for my year and half old laptops ATI graphics card, failing to get a usable Unity from any of them - either reverts straight to classic or I get Unity with so much graphical mess that it is unusable - I wonder if 11.10 is going to exclude me (and others) from participating.

I've convinced many people to try (and ultimately adopt) Ubuntu based on its uniformity of appearance and usability across almost all installation scenarios. All of a sudden my quite capable and not-at-all obsolete machine is reduced to a second class citizen in Ubuntuland.

---

### Post by 1fastgst on 2011-05-03
The absolute worst user interface ever.  How the hell can I revert back?  I use my computer to run my business and I cannot even figure out how to use it.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-05-03
move to recurring - not a support request.

---

### Post by cyanidejunkie on 2011-05-03
Rasa1111, I read your article and am also going to try to play with it some more. 

Hakunka-Matata, cmon man lets not take this as such a personal attack to the point where rudeness suddenly becomes appropriate as on so many message boards nowadays. 
I have contributed to projects in the past (yes, not to Unity) but they are quite frankly irrelevant to this post. I say irrelevant because I dont think that one may only comment when on one was part of the design or development teams. As a user I feal one may freely comment and relay useability findings, it is these comments from that ultimately drive the direction of development and ultimately its adoption by the community.

If my comment is unpopular then it will have little impact on the final product, and then who would care? I dont appear to be all that alone tho?
 
Some apps fit in immediatly and satisfy millions of users, some only thousands and some only a few. Then again some less than amazing apps grow into a great product over time.

"Yes, that is asking too much", wow interesting response, cant even imagine a quick come-back to that.

If you like Unity as-is then great, I dont though.. yet, but after some more work maybe. If we as users dont let the developers know that we arent all that happy then they might have no idea how important a fix may be.

---

### Post by jaj540 on 2011-05-03
Compiz effects was reallyone of cool features in ubuntu... And actually it has attracted me to ubuntu..... After the upgrade to 11.04 ,my system crases whenever i make changes in compiz.. and most dissapointingly i cant turn on one my most favourite effect of desktop cube... :(
 As a frontend user I am really dissappointed with 11.04....:(

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-05-03
> **1fastgst said:**
> The absolute worst user interface ever.  How the hell can I revert back?  I use my computer to run my business and I cannot even figure out how to use it.

you don't 'revert back'..
but you can reinstall 10.10 (or whatever you used).

---

### Post by WannabeFantasma on 2011-05-03
The vista of ubuntu... sounds good, never had troubles with Vista!
(Yes lame joke but it's true!)

+ Still using 10.04(on my media pc) might install 11.04 on my regular pc for testing...

---

### Post by SilverDragon on 2011-05-03
If by the Vista of Ubuntu you mean a major change that will be worked on in future releases such as Vista to 7, then I agree. Without Vista, Windows 7 would not be as good as it is now.

I personally do not really like Unity but it works. Unity does what it is supposed to do on my computer and nothing break or crashes when using it. I kind of liked knowing where all my applications are but I can see how searching for them can be quicker kind of like Spotlight on OS X or Google Desktop or similar on Windows.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-05-03
IMHO, the problem with ubuntu is not unity (although I dislike it). I'm pretty sure it will mature and eventually become stable and customizable; even if it doesn't, one can easily switch to a different DE.
The problem with ubuntu is Canonical insulting my inteligence: releasing a buggy 11.04 (I'm not talking about unity here, although a large number of bugs are related to it) and counting on me to be the beta tester. Instead of fixing the countless bugs affiliated with wireless, video, printing support, etc., they concentrated on a cheap, fisher-price like, toy.
To put it differently, would you like Natty if Unity wasn't there?

---

### Post by ikt on 2011-05-03
> **SilverDragon said:**
> If by the Vista of Ubuntu you mean a major change that will be worked on in future releases such as Vista to 7, then I agree. Without Vista, Windows 7 would not be as good as it is now.

I suppose that's one good thing about Ubuntu's 6 month releases, is that the wait for the "windows 7" of ubuntu releases is only 6 months away. (assuming they get it right)

---

### Post by leviathan8 on 2011-05-03
I just did a fresh install of 11.04. Despite the few bugs and lack of customization of panels, it is very nice! However, I am little disappointed by Shotwell, Banshee and Empathy, and I still find no use for Gwibber. But that's just my opinion, because there a lot of young people that use such programs for social networking, and yes, of course they can be removed and replaced by our preferred apps, like, isn't it that the point in open-source? :). Also, from my point of view, this whole Unity desktop environment looks to me like those interfaces for mobile devices, such as touch screen phones. I've never had such things and Unity gave me a little glimpse of how they look and feel. Thank you Ubuntu. :redface:

---

### Post by Electric_Bubble on 2011-05-03
Actually, Isn't this what they always do? I remember every major thing the'v released to be premature. Annyways, i agree whit all of you guy's, 11.04 does not do the job and its buggy at least! I regret going trough the trouble of doing a fresh install :-(.

---

### Post by dgray_from_dc on 2011-05-03
I had similar rage when Kubuntu went KDE 4 for the first time.  There were so many things missing, I went back to the previous release and waited for the software to mature.  I'm sure it'll improve.

Hang in there guys!!! :D

---

### Post by krapp on 2011-05-03
:lolflag:

Vista took nearly a decade and $20 billion I think. 11.04 took 6 months and a few modest salaries.

I see analogy-making isn't the OP's greatest strength.

---

### Post by ssherwood on 2011-05-03
I agree, vista was just a waste of money as it is rubbish and eats system resources. Now I have no issue with ubuntu itself just the unity session on my desktop system, the support test says my system is compatible and supports unity but it fails. I just feel, like I posted previously, that unity is more for netbooks as it actuallfaster than the 10.10 netbook edition and that you have desktop support I.e shortcuts etc. I do not nor will stop using ubuntu and any variants under the ubuntu programming. 

Stephen

---

### Post by paulmerchant on 2011-05-03
Congratulations to the Ubuntu team for Unity and 11.04!

Is everything perfect? Not on my system. In fact, Beta 2 hosed my laptop so bad that I went over to OpenSUSE for the last couple of weeks. OpenSUSE was fun, but it wasn't perfect either. Of course, Vista obviously wasn't perfect.

Do I like Unity? Yes! I can do everything using just my keyboard. It dares to break the mold of Windows and Mac and KDE and Gnome. I think that's cool, even if it isn't perfect. I think Unity breaks the mold in a fun, usable way. Vista was just annoying and ugly and a hog, at least in my opinion. Rock ahead Unity, which will be improved over the days to come. Stay dead Vista.

---

### Post by Docaltmed on 2011-05-03
I don't allow computers with Vista on my property.

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2011-05-03
Friends don't let friends use Vista.

---

### Post by WannabeFantasma on 2011-05-03
Vista has been stable for me for years...


Anyway, just installed 11.04... Glad it's not my "main" ubuntu pc...
Had troubles with banshee crashing all the way while I was figuring out how to import files...
Installed Rhythmbox and got it working in 5 Seconds....
Banshee kept downloading album art while I disabled it...  Rhythmbox doesn't...
Most of the time I have no idea where what is... what things I have opened etc...
had a hard time finding my Media partition....

Ok yes, only looking at it for around 30 mins... 
glad I can install any software I want... 

Gonna give it a chance though, but my nice stable 10.04 machine is a keeper for now....

Maybe just Classic mode will be the way to go... but why install 11.04 with unity if you're not gonna use it? :/

1 good thing I noticed, there isn't the bug that causes you can see flash videos through any black!!!!!!!!!!!!! wohoow!?! (talking about this [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OqufCyU4AEU](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OqufCyU4AEU) )

EDIT: tested some more yesterday evening and I'm beginning to understand it :D

---

### Post by SilverDragon on 2011-05-05
> **ikt said:**
> I suppose that's one good thing about Ubuntu's 6 month releases, is that the wait for the "windows 7" of ubuntu releases is only 6 months away. (assuming they get it right)

And if not in 11.10, it has to be for the 12.04 LTS release.

---

### Post by Flexserve on 2011-05-05
> **dctrsatan said:**
> This upgrade is so bad. I have had nothing but trouble with it.
 
Wacom driver is no longer working.
When I revert to classic mode Compiz doesn't work correctly.
The windows freeze which forces me to log out and back into regular 11.04 mode.
 
I have been looking though the forums and see a lot of other people having pain with this upgrade. What is everyone else's views on this upgrade?
 
+1 and mines been nothing but crap.

---

### Post by demilord on 2011-05-11
I do find 11.04 have lots of quirks and bugs, the idea is nice, 
but they should have fixed the memory leaks, which they didnt get to fixed totally, 
and the wireless cards regression.. 
Also they should have tweaked the performance a bit, I find 11.04 unresponsive and feels laggy in my opinion.. 
and last but not least the battery drains way to quick.

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2011-05-11
Xubuntu 11.04 works perfectly for me and I'm not much of a Unity person but have tried Ubuntu 11.04 on my test desktop and it works fine too...  If it's not working for you then stick with 10.04/10.10 and check out the new releases when they come...

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-05-11
+1 AND use the 64bit version if you have a modern multi core processor, its faster for me, a lot faster: 
 - if you don't like unity:
use ubuntu Classic desktop:

@Logon, after hitting enter and waiting to input password, use mouse to change logon screen at bottom of monitor, use "Ubuntu CLASSIC".  Then continue with password and logon.

---

### Post by kvdbreem on 2011-05-13
This release was absolutely horrible.  Thanks Ubuntu for forcing me now to have to spend another few hours downgrading to 10_04 LTS.  This is the second time compiz and unity have clashed and broken my desktop manager and I'm not prepared to try to learn KDE.  I have work to do.

So, with regrets, I think I'm going to have to downgrade to Ubuntu 10_04 and wait out the storm.  Hopfefully Ubuntu will come to their senses and start releasing versions that use a practical and usable desktop manager like Gnome or KDE, rather than some scaled down and useless UI like Unity.

---

### Post by kn0w-b1nary on 2011-05-13
I use Xubuntu 11.04, no problems whatsoever!

---

### Post by stmiller on 2011-05-13
[[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/H5lUC.png[/IMG]](http://imgur.com/H5lUC)

---

### Post by kvdbreem on 2011-05-13
> **kn0w-b1nary said:**
> I use Xubuntu 11.04, no problems whatsoever!

Probably because xfce has more features than unity.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-13
The old netbook remix is tolerable.. with a dock. If you remove all the favorites to the dock and delete all the favorites panel icons, you have a clean desktop. No one will ever confuse the ribbon on the left-hand side for a Unity launcher. ;-)

---

### Post by cap10Ibraim on 2011-05-13
similar thread 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1702627](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1702627)
well first my problem with 11.04 wasn't the interface , but the bugs and crashes 
then I tried Fedora 15 with Gnome 3 also , I didn't like it 
now i just finished installing 10.04 still I have to get all my software up and running again

---

### Post by Docaltmed on 2011-05-13
> **kvdbreem said:**
> This release was absolutely horrible.  Thanks Ubuntu for forcing me now to have to spend another few hours downgrading to 10_04 LTS.  This is the second time compiz and unity have clashed and broken my desktop manager and I'm not prepared to try to learn KDE.  I have work to do.

So, with regrets, I think I'm going to have to downgrade to Ubuntu 10_04 and wait out the storm.  Hopfefully Ubuntu will come to their senses and start releasing versions that use a practical and usable desktop manager like Gnome or KDE, rather than some scaled down and useless UI like Unity.

Heh. You sound like me right after 8.10 came out. Broke everything, left right and center. I was filing bug reports like handing out candy to the kids at a memorial day parade. After a few weeks, workarounds and fixes started appearing, and life got better.

---

### Post by john.bottomley on 2011-05-13
I am looking at Unity from the perspective of an IT project concerned with widening access to IT

We have been experimenting with 11.04 for time now.  We have upgraded about 30 PCs and Laptops to date with no more problems than any other upgrade.

Last week we introduced Unity to a group of new users of IT all of whom were at least in their 70s.  They have also tried out another well known OS with a 7 in its name.

The consensus was the 11.04 was intuitive and made sense.  It was easy to figure out what to do next and we noticed how quickly people were learning. 

We also put 2 units in our youth club and interestingly the only comment we got was 'huh this is new'.

I must admit it has been a steep learning curve to break away from Gnome but I think it has been worth it - I am sure this approach will be supportive  both for users and trainers

In about 4 weeks time we are planning to introduce Unity to our recycling programme as our default OS

In our terms Unity will help us to widen access to IT

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-15
Wireless card kernel panic and desktop lockup. Upgrading the kernel fixed the issue. I don't think a kernel update is absolutely necessary but when you need it, you no longer have to take a blowtorch to the computer.

---

### Post by racie on 2011-05-15
I actually didn't have a problem with the performance of Unity.  However, I tried it for a while... and it's very difficult for me to like.  It's not as intuitive as I'd hoped.  No... scratch that... it's not intuitive at all.

I hope this isn't Ubuntu's fault, but I've also come across a MASSIVE ISSUE.  Every so often Ubuntu will randomly lock up for no apparent reason.  The mouse works but I can't click anything and the keyboard can't do anything except switch to a console.  I've Googled it and this bug does affect other people as well.

The good news is that this problem is not apparent on Kubuntu.

---

### Post by ajay_vishvanathan on 2011-05-15
well.. i have my own pros and cons about this..
when i was using 10.10 i could not play cs1.6 off steam through winehq
now i cam play that but with some video bugs oh and also i am getting an error "This driver is enabled but currently not in use" so this is not really perfect release.. i think i will have to wait for 11.10.. but this is really buggy.. my video driver is not getting used.. :(

---

### Post by murderslastcrow on 2011-05-15
If you have a video card made in the past five years and 1 GB of RAM, you shouldn't encounter much more than your own stubbornness. No one's making you use Unity, and many people love it, including me (although I won't use it by preference in lieu of Gnome 3). Aside from Unity, very little has changed aside from a lot of polishing and refining work. Even if you just use the classic interface, you will likely notice many improvements compared to Maverick.

And, unlike Vista, you can be glad Ubuntu isn't the only version of Linux. XD I think Vista gets your point across, but is a bit disingenuous about certain aspects of the change.

EDIT: A video card in the last 7 years is probably decent, in fact.

---

### Post by ninjinx on 2011-05-16
Agree. I've never had more trouble with an OS than with Natty!
I'm downgrading back to Maverick... So disappointed in canonical!

---

### Post by Ric_NYC on 2011-05-16
[IMG]http://i55.tinypic.com/2gucy1h.jpg[/IMG]

:roll:

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-05-16
Have tried 11.04  (Natty) but only from a live CD/USB.

First instance I downloaded Ubuntu 11.04 beta2 and successfully burned the ISO on to a CD then after used it to boot up laptop with it and everything appears to run well.

Second instance I downloaded Lubuntu 11.04 (official release) did same thing again, burned ISO on to CD and attempted to boot laptop only to find did not set up graphics card so no GUI.  

I also burned both ISO's on to USB memory sticks and attempted to boot laptop with them and both occasions they failed to boot from USB memory stick.

At first I thought it might have been the problem with Startup Disk Creator on Ubuntu 10.04 but had successfully used it to create live USB memory stick using Ubuntu 10.04 iso.

Seems to be a bug in 11.04 for creating live USB memory stick drives.

Off now to report it!

---

### Post by alexcckll on 2011-05-16
What's the situation with the following machines...

Lenovo Thinkpad R61i 7654-ABG
Lenovo Ideapad S12...

Will they be OK for Unity when 12.04LTS is released?

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-05-16
> **alexcckll said:**
> What's the situation with the following machines...

Lenovo Thinkpad R61i 7654-ABG
Lenovo Ideapad S12...

Will they be OK for Unity when 12.04LTS is released?

How much RAM have they got?  Should be OK if they have at least 512MB of RAM.

---

### Post by alexcckll on 2011-05-16
Both have 2Gb RAM.  R61i has an Intel X3100 GPU, the Ideapad has an NVIDIA ION.

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-05-16
How funny I dual boot Vista and Natty. :P :P :P

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-05-16
We could say that vista is the 11.04 of windows.

---

### Post by OGpmpdog on 2011-05-16
> **alexcckll said:**
> Both have 2Gb RAM.  R61i has an Intel X3100 GPU, the Ideapad has an NVIDIA ION.

You should be OK; I am running both Lucid and Natty on a T61 with 2 GB of RAM...in fact, I ran Natty Alpha 1 from Dec 3 to current release - the X server breakage was hairy but the T61 pulled through.

FYI...I've had this laptop for 4 years, and just recently replaced the cooling fan...VERY ubuntu friendly - to the point where windows is quickly forgotten.

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-05-16
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> We could say that vista is the 11.04 of windows.

How about Natty is to Vista what Vista is to Natty?

---

### Post by danbuter on 2011-05-16
> **Hakunka-Matata said:**
> Yes, that is asking too much.  especially since you've been *using* pcs for over twenty years now. (How much free coding have you done for open source?) Take this as a gentle slap from a user who has been *using pcs* and i might add soberly acknowledging their contribution to raising equality in terms of standard of living for much of the worlds Denizens over those same years ++.


Wow, you're so cool.

---

### Post by nrundy on 2011-05-16
funny you compare it to Vista. 

Windows7 = Vista refined. And Windows7 is considered the greatest OS Microsoft has ever produced.

So ubuntu 11.10 (11.04 refined) = the greatest OS Ubuntu will have produced up to that point.

just use classic Gnome 2.x for five months and then switch to 11.10

---

### Post by murderslastcrow on 2011-05-16
Gnome 2 users kinda' scare me, now.

---

### Post by -jay- on 2011-05-16
unity is ok i'm not complaining about how much resources it uses
but i perfer gnome3 over unity

---

### Post by RealKikas® on 2011-05-22
I use Ubuntu since 8.04 but i never had so much problems than now with Natty, my machine is the same ok, but my microsoft usb 4500 mouse frezees randomly, can't use compiz, in this very moment i loose the numpad of my keyboard, numlock is active but i don't have numbers, it logoff's randomly, i lose several works because of this. I will wait till summer to see if the problems are solved, if not, like when i used vista i downgrade to XP i will reinstall 10.10.
Intel P4 Dual Core 3GHz
3 GB Ram
HP Dual Monitor 20'' + 17''
ATIX300
In Maverick i could burn my screen with compiz so it's not only the hardware.
I don't have any problems with Seven Dual Boot.

---

