---
title: "Was 10.04 Ubuntu's peak?"
date: 2011-12-22
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by getmeoutofhere on 2011-12-22
I tried 11.04 and hated it.  I couldn't stand the 'eye candy' (I can't stand that phrase, which is why I am using it) on the left hand side of the screen, plus there was the difficulty in finding things.  Surely the kind of people that want this kind of stuff would go for a payed-for operating system?

Yesterday I tried 11.10.  I was determined to give it a go.  On one computer I had it wouldn't load, and I had to put 10.04 on it.  I got it up and running on another computer, and I uninstalled it after five minutes.  Aside from the eye candy, the computer felt a bit sluggish.

In the short term this is not a problem.  I regard 10.04 as being brilliant, and it will be supported for some time, because it's an LTS.

However looking at 11.04 and 11.10, it seems to me that Ubuntu has now peaked, that the developers have taken a path for the OS which is in my opinion very unfortunate.

Yesterday I also decided that I am never going back to Windows.  So what Linux distribution should I be adopting?  I'm not technically minded, so it has to be user-friendly like 10.04 is, but I want an OS that puts substance before style.  

I really am sad about the direction that the 11.x versions have taken.  Ubuntu had something really good going.

---

### Post by Onesimus on 2011-12-22
It seems yesterday you made some pretty big decisions - though I have to wonder how anyone can judge an entire OS after only 5 mins (!).

As you pointed out you are happy with 10.04, and it is supported for some time, so I suggest you stick with that rather than look at other Linux OS.  Though given the length of time you judge an OS, it seems you will spend more time installing than using any new OS.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-12-22
@OP, since you are asking:

> **getmeoutofhere said:**
> So what Linux distribution should I be adopting?

... this is not really a testimonial. So...

*Thread moved to **Recurring Discussions**.*

---

### Post by getmeoutofhere on 2011-12-22
I don't want to constantly install and de-install operating systems!  I've been through that phase.  If it works, that's fine, and 10.04 works very well.  With 11.10 I could tell straight away that the computer was being sluggish.

---

### Post by getmeoutofhere on 2011-12-22
coffeecat,

Can't you give me the benefit of the doubt, and consider the possibility that I'm asking a rhetorical question?

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-12-22
> **getmeoutofhere said:**
> I don't want to constantly install and de-install operating systems!  I've been through that phase.  If it works, that's fine, and 10.04 works very well.  With 11.10 I could tell straight away that the computer was being sluggish.

To help you it be better if you posted your full system specs. Meanwhile please se links in my Sig.

---

### Post by getmeoutofhere on 2011-12-22
The problem was that I didn't have the time to work out what was wrong with the computer - I needed a computer that worked, that I could use.  It was quicker to install 10.04 than mess around trying to fix a sub-optimal set-up.  I would guess that's why a lot of people give up on 11.x.

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-12-22
Stick with 10.04 but if you want to try another "distro" have a look at [Xubuntu]("http://www.xubuntu.org/") or [Lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net/"). Both are Canonical supported distros but use XFCE and LXDE desktops instead.

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-12-22
> **getmeoutofhere said:**
> The problem was that I didn't have the time to work out what was wrong with the computer - I needed a computer that worked, that I could use.  It was quicker to install 10.04 than mess around trying to fix a sub-optimal set-up.  I would guess that's why a lot of people give up on 11.x.

Ok but what are your system specifications. 

 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements)

Also see this.  [http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/12/ubuntu-wins-best-distro-award-for-7th-year-in-linuxjournal-readers-poll/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28OMG%21+Ubuntu%21%29](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/12/ubuntu-wins-best-distro-award-for-7th-year-in-linuxjournal-readers-poll/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28OMG%21+Ubuntu%21%29)

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2011-12-22
it's true that 11.10 requires a 'stronger' system to run well than 10.04 does.  If 10.04 is working for you, keep using it.  A month before support runs out, reevaluate.  I know that Gnome-shell support has improved a LOT in the past couple months for instance.  There is an abundance of choices, Lubuntu and Xubuntu work well on older/less capable systems.   You don't have to abandon 10.04 this minute, keep using it and monitor the various distros.  Who can say, MATE might be a viable choice in the future.

---

### Post by getmeoutofhere on 2011-12-22
Thanks for the comments.  I'll review that situation when I have a stronger system.  My current computer is a 2007-vintage Inspiron 1520.

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-12-23
> **getmeoutofhere said:**
> Thanks for the comments.  I'll review that situation when I have a stronger system.  My current computer is a 2007-vintage Inspiron 1520.

I think thats a better spec machine than my Acer 1410 which runs 11.10 just fine. Win 7 which I dual boot is much slower in comparison.  I have 2 gig ram.

---

### Post by Docaltmed on 2011-12-23
You gotta be kidding me. Everyone knows Ubuntu peaked with Breezy. That's an indisputible fact. Everything's been downhill since Usplash.

---

### Post by kazuya on 2011-12-23
Regardless of Laptop Spec. The newest 11.10 or 11.04 run way too slowly compared to the Ubuntu 10.10 or 10.04. Just because I have a super powerful PC does not mean I need excess bloat. That is like microsoft trying to force customers to upgrade to more powerful machines to run Vista. They wisely changed back to being performance motivated as evident in the windows 7 and windows 8(future) releases. The emphasis is rightfully on speed.
 
Without a shadow of a doubt, on a dual boot system, Windows 7 for the first time performs equally with an Ubuntu install with Unity or gnome 3. In some cases, no real fault of linux, due adobe's flash, windows 7 handles youtube videos with less negative impact to cpu usage. Firefox or opera browsers in windows use like 33% cpu; in linux they cause cpu to spike to like 58 or even 70%. Windows 7 uses more RAM, but the cpu usage is more efficient; Thus giving the perception sometimes of being faster.
 
10.04 was definitly the peak. 10.10 was okay and after that it went super downhill. I can tolerate the new look if my performance was not so bad. 
 
I have tested on AMD A8-3500M Quad core PC, on intel core 2 duo laptops all with like 4 gig of RAM, and performance with 11.04 and 11.1o were abysmal. The other intel core 2 duo with equal specs on 10.04 ran way faster and booted up much faster. I should add that the system was super stable and things worked as designed to.
 
If I sound ranty, it is because I am and have always been so passionate about linux and its evolution since 2004. And it greatly dissappoints me to see a direction or trend towards limited options for the end-users in the name of standardization.
 
Standardization is great and important, but not at the expense of functionality and choice for the end users.

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-12-23
My acer 1410 dual boots win 7 premium 64 bit with 11.10. Ubuntu is much faster with unity 3d. YMMV

---

### Post by coffee412 on 2011-12-23
I have been using linux for YEARS. Since Redhat 4.01. I too am very upset about the direction of Ubuntu as I have installed 10.04 on alot of my customers systems as an alternative to winbloze. I dread a year from now when its time to upgrade. I really dont have a master plan for them yet.

Right now Im running 10.04 with gnome2 and Fedora 15 with LXDE on seperate drives. 

You know, I think 10.4 was Ubuntu's finest hour. It had everything that I could think of for an operating system. I had the applets, I had a great desktop space, Notifications ect.. But I guess good things never last. Now things are most definitely going downhill from here. 

> It seems yesterday you made some pretty big decisions - though I have to  wonder how anyone can judge an entire OS after only 5 mins (!).Heck, How long does it really take to figure out Unity and gnome3 are romper room DE's? I think that anyone coming to ubuntu from something like windows7 is going to look at the desktop and go "no thanks" pretty quick. 5 minutes to me is a long time. Didnt really take me long to install LXDE so that I could get some work done!

What really is upsetting is that they take an untested DE (Unity) and make it the default DE. It should have been an option to try out to gauge user sentiment. But I guess that doesnt matter anymore. Its what the developers want at gnome instead of the actual users.

Its also too bad that distros like Ubuntu and Redhat/fedora (and others) didnt stand up to gnome and tell them that they were not going to include it in the next release. They could have stuck with gnome2. After all, The source code is available right? The whole idea behind the gpl is that software can be changed and improved by anyone that wants too. But instead they just rolled over and took it.

Im really hoping that FXCE and /or LXDE will fill the gap in the de area. They really look promising but do have some things still left out that need improvement. But if you look at the LXDE website and what they propose for the future it seems they are on the right track.

So, to cap this bit of raving off - Redhat, Ubuntu and others that are using gnome3 or Unity are pretty much past their prime and on the downward slope of the curve. However, Lets keep a bit of hope that something might change in the future.

BTW -- " YOu can still change your desktop if you dont like gnome3/unity". Yep I can and will. But for those new to linux they are not going to. They are just going to be upset they wasted time and effort plus a blank cd on such junk.

---

### Post by Beast2234 on 2011-12-24
So far, yes. Abandoning Gnome2 completely was the worst thing the Dev team could have ever done. I can't stand 11.10 which I'm sadly running right now. The Gnome3 shell is better than Unity in my opinion.

---

### Post by saneearth on 2011-12-24
I have no issues with 11.10 or Unity. Most all OS's have increasing hardware requirements as the distributions advance and Ubuntu is no exception. The exceptional part is that the requirements are not so drastic as some. I haven't noticed much difference in 10.04 and 11.10, but I have pretty stout hardware. If you run 2D, I would imagine that there is little difference at all. Compiz and accelerated graphics are definitely taxing on resources so avoid using.

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2011-12-24
> **getmeoutofhere said:**
> With 11.10 I could tell straight away that the computer was being sluggish.
Ubuntu 11.10 with Unity is sluggish for me as well. I completely removed Unity and the lightdm packages and use Gnome 3 shell but in the Gnome Classic mode and it runs just as fast as 10.04 which I still dual boot with. I am moving more to 11.10 as a ramp up to 12.04. I will use Gnome3 with that also.

If you are interested look here: [http://linux-software-news-tutorials.blogspot.com/2011/10/ubuntu-1110-oneiric-remove-unity-and.html](http://linux-software-news-tutorials.blogspot.com/2011/10/ubuntu-1110-oneiric-remove-unity-and.html)

---

### Post by daedalo on 2011-12-27
> **getmeoutofhere said:**
> I don't want to constantly install and de-install operating systems!  I've been through that phase.  If it works, that's fine, and 10.04 works very well.  With 11.10 I could tell straight away that the computer was being sluggish.

My grain of salt: The part of constantly installing and removing operating systems is mostly because you mess a lot with the settings (just like everyone one in this forums), that´s unlikely to change, i know people that use the same Win Xp that was on their laptops for the last 8 years and even with all the spyware and viruses... the OS it´s still working.

For most of us i guess, it´s as simple as: we know how to fix it, why suffer something to be slow or bloated?

---

### Post by QIII on 2011-12-27
> **getmeoutofhere said:**
>   I would guess that's why a lot of people give up on 11.x.

By what method of measure do you arrive at that conclusion?

The fact that some people on this forum say they are giving it up?

People don't come to help forums to complain when their new installations work.  They come here when they don't.

Let's say you see 300 people on this forum complaining about Oneiric.  That may seem like a lot.

But what if you consider that millions of users upgraded and have NOT had problems?  Me, for instance.  I have had none of the problems others complain about here.  

A forum like this contains a heavy "referral bias".

If you say something is slow, you will naturally get others who will agree because of that referral bias.  You should not get the impression from that that everyone agrees with you.  Your sample size is too small, the problems are individually anecdotal and a forum like this suffers from referral bias.

From any person's standpoint,  their opinion could be that X reached a peak and then went down based on their personal preferences.  We humans have a tendency to project our opinion on others -- especially when the opinion is re-enforced by anecdotal agreement.

Use what works for you and don't assume that someone else will find something else to be less useful to them.

---

### Post by Foster Grant on 2011-12-27
> **QIII said:**
> People don't come to help forums to complain when their new installations work.  They come here when they don't.

That's not entirely true. Sometimes *I* come here to make fun of people who insist that because [DISTRO] [VERSION] doesn't work on their computer -- even though they're the only person with that problem -- it means the entire distro release has failed and the entire project is careening madly toward disaster.

:lolflag:

---

### Post by QIII on 2011-12-27
Or because you live in Missoula; have nothing to do but drive to Bozeman once a year to go to a football game; and you bagged your bull early this season ...

---

### Post by Foster Grant on 2011-12-28
> **QIII said:**
> Or because you live in Missoula; have nothing to do but drive to Bozeman once a year to go to a football game; and you bagged your bull early this season ...

Well, there used to be more to do ... but then the feds closed all the medical marijuana dispensaries. :lolflag:

Although they all closed right after the Willie Nelson concert ... hmm, maybe they suddenly ran short of inventory.

Seriously, though ... lots to do up here. Great town.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-12-28
> **coffee412 said:**
> 
You know, I think 10.4 was Ubuntu's finest hour. It had everything that I could think of for an operating system. I had the applets, I had a great desktop space, Notifications ect..

Short memories. I remember how 10.04 was the worst Ubuntu release ever, because the window buttons were "on the wrong side" and the wallpaper was purple. In a year's time, 10.04 will be nearly forgotten and 11.10 will be the "I wish I could go back to yesteryear" distro.

> I think that anyone coming to ubuntu from something like windows7 is going to look at the desktop and go "no thanks" pretty quick.... But for those new to linux they are not going to. They are just going to be upset they wasted time and effort plus a blank cd on such junk.

Perhaps people other than yourself might actually like it? Unity has a useful search engine, it doesn't use much screen space, there's not too many ways to mess it up (accidentally removing the notification area was a common one that you can't do in Unity), it looks kinda nice, and it's distinctive. There's plenty to like about it for the new user who has never clapped eyes on Gnome 2.

Besides, a lot of people will be coming from Windows 8's "Now your computer is a tablet" UI. Unity will be a breath of fresh air for these folks, whereas Gnome 2 would be too spartan and ugly.

---

### Post by QIII on 2011-12-28
I can't argue with you there, Foster.  My Dad is from Missoula.  I put myself through college poking cattle east of Billings.  (I'm dating myself, but I graduated from MSU - Billings back when it was Eastern Montana College.). Loved living in Kalispell.

Anyway.  I had some heartburn with the default to Unity myself.  But now I think it was a smart move.  (A bit more customizability would be nice.). It seems as though tablets are the future. 

So default to Unity.  For your desktop, use _buntu spins.  Guys like me will always need the power of a desktop for our work.  On a tablet it won't matter much.  I won't be doing the heavy number crunching I do on my desktop.  My tablet probably won't be the client node in my Beowulf cluster.  Unity will be fine for the tablet.

---

### Post by smellyman on 2011-12-28
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Short memories. I remember how 10.04 was the worst Ubuntu release ever, because the window buttons were "on the wrong side" and the wallpaper was purple. In a year's time, 10.04 will be nearly forgotten and 11.10 will be the "I wish I could go back to yesteryear" distro.



Haha.  so true.  there was a lot of whining back then.

---

### Post by jjex22 on 2011-12-28
> **smellyman said:**
> Haha.  so true.  there was a lot of whining back then.

lol +1 I had this with my brother in law last month - he finally switched to Ubuntu, had unity issues and at my suggestion went to 10.04 ... would not shut up about the buttons!

I also remember 10.04 comming out, all the "just trying to be apple" and "where's the dock mark?" whining, as a mac user it was a very sensible move to me! I couldn't really choose between 10.04 and 10.10 really? 2010 was a very good Ubuntu year - Ubuntu wasn't brown anymore! woo!

I suppose I had a few less hardware issues on 10.10, but a few more on the ppc version, .04 had a better netbook edition than .10, but then that was the implementation of unity, so it could be expected to be a bit more mugy I guess.

My personal favourite *ubuntu has been mint 11 so far, by not commiting to the whole 3/unity thing it was a win, win for my hardware, I didn't encounter a single problem - added KDE, LXDE, Enlightenment and openbox to it, added so many packages to it trying things out - I'd just had to upgrade to Lion on my mac and was planning out what I was also going to put on the box at the time - never broke it.

As ever it's going to be what's best for your hardware first and foremost - don't forget how much support has been added to 10.04 since it was released - at release time pretty much everyone was still having backlight issues on laptops - it also drained the hell out of batteries.I had to add a repository and three packages to get my bluetooth and backlight working, and several more for function keys - and that was just for my netbook, my older laptop could only change brightness by installing xbacklight and running terminal commands.

There may be bumps along the road, but ubuntu and linux as a whole continues to strive forward - just the fact that we take unsupported hardware as an exception now is a testiment to this.

---

