---
title: "11.10 a disaster for me."
date: 2011-10-16
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by ranbo on 2011-10-16
I just upgraded to 11.10 from 11.04 (64-bit, on a Lenovo T500); and now I have a host of problems:

1. "Outlook" (running under Crossover Office) no longer works.  It launches, but when I go to log in, it says there was an error and Outlook has to shut down.  So no more e-mail for me. :(

2. How do you un-maximize a window under Unity? There are no unmaximize or close buttons on a maximized window!

3. The "System" menu icon is off the right side of my screen.  There are apparently a couple of pixels over there I can still click on so I can log out, but it took a while to find it, since it isn't visible.

4. Many of my application icons are gone, so I have lots of apps with a generic "screen document" icon.

5. Classic interface is gone, and attempting to install it via "sudo apt-get..." didn't help much, because most apps don't have icons; all my launchers are gone; most things are missing from the top panel.  So it's pretty much unusable.

Overall, this is a complete disaster.  I hate Unity enough so far that I am considering going back to Windoze for the first time in a long time.  Ugh.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-10-16
> 
1. "Outlook" (running under Crossover Office) no longer works.  It launches, but when I go to log in, it says there was an error and Outlook has to shut down.  So no more e-mail for me. :( This is always a danger of hacking programs to make them run. Try using thunderbird for your emails.

> 2. How do you un-maximize a window under Unity? There are no unmaximize or close buttons on a maximized window!
Maximize a window and move your mouse to the upper left of the screen. The buttons should appear.

> 3. The "System" menu icon is off the right side of my screen.  There are apparently a couple of pixels over there I can still click on so I can log out, but it took a while to find it, since it isn't visible.
You should try adjusting your monitor. See if you have an AUTO ADJUST feature on it.

> 4. Many of my application icons are gone, so I have lots of apps with a generic "screen document" icon.
You should see if those applications were removed or still installed.
> 
5. Classic interface is gone, and attempting to install it via "sudo apt-get..." didn't help much, because most apps don't have icons; all my launchers are gone; most things are missing from the top panel.  So it's pretty much unusable.
Open software center, install gnome. You will have a 'classic mode'

> Overall, this is a complete disaster.  I hate Unity enough so far that I am considering going back to Windoze for the first time in a long time.  Ugh.
Gotta do what you gotta do.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-10-16
Welcome to the upgrade world, sorry to hear your having problems, hopefully you read the warning about upgrading and backed all your information up. My advice is to first get Unity running correctly and than work on the other problems one at a time. Just stating your going back to windows is your choice but aren't going to jump in and help someone who doesn't want the help. So my first question is what is wrong with unity?

To Unmax a windows just press the square button in the upper left left corner.

As far as a classic interface, sorry about that but unity is the future of ubuntu, you can try gnome shell, I personally don't like the shell, too many problems. You can also try to install the gnome fall back, but don't know how that will work. My advice is to get use to Unity or find another desktop environment that will work for you as gnome classic is going to be history after a few more cycles for most distros.

---

### Post by oldgeekster on 2011-10-16
> **ranbo said:**
> I just upgraded to 11.10 from 11.04 (64-bit, on a Lenovo T500); and now I have a host of problems:
From the sound of it, you didn't do very much reading prior to the upgrade - if you had some of this would have been "expected" ranbo.

> 1. "Outlook" (running under Crossover Office) no longer works.  It launches, but when I go to log in, it says there was an error and Outlook has to shut down.  So no more e-mail for me. :(I am not a Crossover user so cannot really help other than to ask if you had previously added a ppa for it which now will have to be re-added in software sources.
> 2. How do you un-maximize a window under Unity? There are no unmaximize or close buttons on a maximized window!Point your mouse at the top left corner of the screen where the open window's name appears up in the panel. You "should" see the Close, Minimize, etc. buttons up there as quick as you mouse-over it. This is a part of Unity and the way it works in the default manner under 11.10 and took me about a day to get used to. Am only now "comfortable" with it.
> 3. The "System" menu icon is off the right side of my screen.  There are apparently a couple of pixels over there I can still click on so I can log out, but it took a while to find it, since it isn't visible.That sounds *very* odd.  Suspect, now that you can get in there, you should probably select "System Settings|Additional Drivers" to see if there aren't some you are missing for your particular hardware?
> 4. Many of my application icons are gone, so I have lots of apps with a generic "screen document" icon.Yeah - that happens with 11.10 under Unity.  What I have chosen to do is install "[**ClassicMenu Indicator**]("http://www.florian-diesch.de/software/classicmenu-indicator/")", which is still in beta but working for me - your mileage may vary.
> 5. Classic interface is gone, and attempting to install it via "sudo apt-get..." didn't help much, because most apps don't have icons; all my launchers are gone; most things are missing from the top panel.  So it's pretty much unusable.See item 4 above.  This is a matter of your either needing to learn how to use the Unity interface - or abandoning it for another like xfce or gnome-shell - entirely up to you. The fix above is working for me as a "fallback" position to comfortably access my programs while I take time to learn more of Unity and finally give it a chance. (I totally ignored Unity throughout 11.04).
> Overall, this is a complete disaster.  I hate Unity enough so far that I am considering going back to Windoze for the first time in a long time.  Ugh.Again, that is entirely up to you, and I wish you good luck with whatever decisions you make.  Certainly you could always restore your system from the full backup you made before getting started with the upgrade right?  Right?  (That is a lesson we all seem to have to pay multiple "dues" multiple times to finally learn.  Back it up first - then play).

---

### Post by evlz on 2011-10-17
I also have some problems, one of them is that Libre Office no longer opens my files located on an Ubuntu Samba Server.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-10-17
> **jtmcc said:**
> Its a disaster for me too!!!! Try Zorin OS, Its based on Ubuntu, Has playonlinux Pre-installed, and looks like windows 7. I loved Ubuntu until now.

> **Penguin_be said:**
> 11.10 is indeed a disaster :(

Since upgraded I have wireless problems (los connection and slow)
Hi cpu usage for firefox and even pidgin.

It's like going back a few years

> **JuanPabloCuervo said:**
> i think Microsoft is hiring people to downgrade Ubuntu...

Oneric is a dissaster.

i wish i never clicked that ...

> **Meelad said:**
> The key word in this thread is "upgrade"..

> **FrancoisQueinnec said:**
> I totally agree !
My 11.10 experience was just terrible.
lost 2 days ( +1 day to reinstall & re-configure 11.04 from scratch ).
I think that if Ubuntu goes on that way, I'll switch to debian or any other distrib...

+ Unity sucks big time :(

> **JuanPabloCuervo said:**
> sorry...
Microsoft is hiring people to "upgrade" Ubuntu...;) LOL

If you wish to post your thoughts and experiences on any of the Ubuntu derivatives offered then you are welcome to write a testimonial here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=103](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=103)

If you would like to join one of the myriad of disscussions concerning the pro and cons of the Unity interface you are welcome to post in one of the numerous threads in the Recurring Discussions section here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=302](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=302)

This is a technical help forum and not the place for those sorts of posts.

@elvs please start your own thread rather than hijacking this one.

---

### Post by mfmf on 2011-10-17
> 3. The "System" menu icon is off the right side of my screen.  There are  apparently a couple of pixels over there I can still click on so I can  log out, but it took a while to find it, since it isn't visible.


I had this problem, too. I fixed it by:
```
  mv .gnome .gnome.old
  mv .gnome2 .gnome2.old
  mv .gconf .gconf.old
  mv .gconfd .gconfd.old
  mv .metacity .metacity.old
```
as suggested in [_this_]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/56313/how-do-i-reset-gnome-to-the defaults") Ask Ubuntu post.

I agree with your general sentiment about 11.10. It has to be one of the least smooth upgrades for some time. I had to do quite a bit of hacking in /var/run just to get a desktop back. I'm still getting intermittent black screens and sound problems. Next time, I'll definitely be waiting a couple of weeks before hitting that "Upgrade" button!

---

### Post by Windwoodtrader on 2011-10-17
I have read about all the problems folks have been having about upgrading to 11.10 and truly sympathize with them. 
The "seasoned" (many beans) responders say pretty much the same thing 
"You were a dummy and didn't read about the risks of upgrading."

I'm sorry, old seasoned veterans- When Ubuntu puts up an upgrade it should pretty much get done without losing email, icons, frozen menu bars, freeze-ups, lost files, ad nauseum!

Why would anyone except a true Ubuntu Geek ever _want_ to upgrade. 

Looking back to upgrade histories there were very little responses like these from 10.10 upgrades from 10.04. Why is that?

It looks to me that the 11.10 upgrade process was rushed for some reason and those us us with less than "True Geek" status are paying the price.

Please don't lecture us with "You obviously didn't read the upgrade notes."

I _did_ read the notes and as a result decided that the volume of issues told me to hold off until I can deal with a much smaller list.

---

### Post by Desert Sailor on 2011-10-17
I love Ubuntu so much that I 'suckered' for an early install.  I had problems before, but don't remember which upgrade it was, but that doesn't matter.  I went ahead and did the 11.10 install.  Like many others here, it has been a disaster for me too.  I have spent the weekend, and have finally rolled myself back to 11.04 which was working well for me. 

There is a question in my rant, and I hope it doesn't get buried in this very long thread.  How do you know when it **is** safe to update.  Will there be a notice of some kind posted.  "Issues have been fixed" or this is the 11.10-B version.  I want to use the latest thinking from minds far superior to mine, but I can't take the time to hammer out all of the untested problems.  (And I don't have the ability anyway). 

So How do you know when it's safe to go back into the water, and update your system.  I don't mind waiting until November, December, even January, I just want an update that works and is stable.

---

### Post by christophevr on 2011-10-25
Hello I just as well tried ubuntu 11.10. It realy turned out to be the most desastrous version of ubuntu I ever Had and have seen.

Off course I did NOT upgrade my good working 11.04.

I just installed it on other HD. Lucky I did. :P

First off all the GOOD things,

Well it's a very small list unfortunately.

The installer work's fine and fast . That's it.

Here WHY NOT UPGRADE OR INSTALL 11.10

The Desktop.

All menu's are GONE !!!! No application menu no location menu !!!
can be solved by installing some stuff easely find by google WITH ANOTHER PC. 

BUT THE WORST NO System menu anymore. NO SYNAPTIC at default en .....

After having just found how to open A TERMINAL !!!!! Window !!!!!!! (1 hour googling needed for that !!!!!!)

wel for those who are searching it's key buttons ctrl +alt +T:o

I could install  gnome-panel. Then restart with gnome classic.

Then creating a desktop launcher impossible it's gone !!!
System menu is gone !!!!!

And here I really stopped. 

THERE IS NO NAUTILUS BROWSER WITH ALL NICE FUNCTIONS AVBL ANYMORE.

You cannot add into nautilus functions as delete (without using wastbin)
was enable delete
You cannot add always use location entry
You cannot add show_advanced_permisson

Off course this after that You first installed gconf-editor which is NOT standard ANYMORE !!!!

I Stopped there For  ubuntu 11.10 is just unusable since there is NO good file browser anymore. No treatable desktop anymore. 

It is just good foor the person who just need to open a internet browser email and one program. And this only if he's lucky that his pc is running good from first time .

DO NOT DO NOT UPGRADE YOUR UBUNTU 11.04 or lower with this CRAPP !!

---

### Post by Sef on 2011-10-25
Not a support question, so moved to recurring discussions. More ubuntu/unity is no good.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2011-10-25
> **christophevr said:**
> I could install  gnome-panel. Then restart with gnome classic.

Then creating a desktop launcher impossible it's gone !!!
System menu is gone !!!!!

And here I really stopped. 

THERE IS NO NAUTILUS BROWSER WITH ALL NICE FUNCTIONS AVBL ANYMORE.

You cannot add into nautilus functions as delete (without using wastbin)
was enable delete
You cannot add always use location entry
You cannot add show_advanced_permisson

Off course this after that You first installed gconf-editor which is NOT standard ANYMORE !!!!

I Stopped there For  ubuntu 11.10 is just unusable since there is NO good file browser anymore. No treatable desktop anymore. 

It is just good foor the person who just need to open a internet browser email and one program. And this only if he's lucky that his pc is running good from first time .

DO NOT DO NOT UPGRADE YOUR UBUNTU 11.04 or lower with this CRAPP !!
Yes, please continue to get mad at Ubuntu for **changes GNOME made**. I don't like the new changes to Firefox, guess I'll go rant at Microsoft.

---

### Post by christophevr on 2011-10-25
Mad ,, Yes I am.

One of the best operating systems is just being reduced to .. yes sorry but at this moment sorry but i'm honnest crap . 

Ok depends on what the user needs, But 11.10 reduces ubuntu to tablet pc functionallity and nothing more.

Linux GNU is not trough anymore for 11.10 , unless if we start working from terminal for everything ... Why do we need X server ????

First UNTITY may be very nice for a lot of users. For real linux GNU users it's just a pain in the ***. Computer performance waisting which is absolutely NOT needed. It's very very slow . (ok i'm very unpatient but ...)

I would be happy to tell something positif, now it's really not possible from ubuntu 11.10. it's just a disaster for the regular linux and ubuntu user.

Agree it can be good for the typical tablet pc user (or those who are using on a pc only that limited type of actions and like nice entertaining images)

Ubuntu 11.04 does work ok and yes I've seen now already that I will have to remain with a system which stays using gnome2 . Hoppefully gnome will learn from it. i think many many regular linux users will avoid gnome3 in future.

---

### Post by Sorinux on 2011-10-25
> **Merk42 said:**
> Yes, please continue to get mad at Ubuntu for **changes GNOME made**. I don't like the new changes to Firefox, guess I'll go rant at Microsoft.

You are forgetting that Unity was pushed before Gnome 3. And when Gnome 3 was exposed to the web, Ubuntu just copied Unity from netbooks and applied it to the desktop!
Just because everybody is obsessed with net-books, tablets and other small devices, why the desktop user should suffer? Is it so easy to forget that who has a small portable device has also a PC or a bigger laptop?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-10-25
> **Sorinux said:**
> You are forgetting that Unity was pushed before Gnome 3. And when Gnome 3 was exposed to the web, Ubuntu just copied Unity from netbooks and applied it to the desktop!
Just because everybody is obsessed with net-books, tablets and other small devices, why the desktop user should suffer? Is it so easy to forget that who has a small portable device has also a PC or a bigger laptop?

In case you have issues _and_ would like them to be solved (where that's possible), list them out coherently.

---

### Post by Stray Wolf on 2011-10-25
> **ranbo said:**
> I just upgraded to 11.10 from 11.04 (64-bit, on a Lenovo T500); and now I have a host of problems:

1. "Outlook" (running under Crossover Office) no longer works.  It launches, but when I go to log in, it says there was an error and Outlook has to shut down.  So no more e-mail for me. :(

Thunderbird comes out-of-the-box.  Just click on the mail icon on your panel (upper right) and click th text that says "Mail".  Set up is simple and Thunderbird has tons of add-ons.

> **ranbo said:**
> 2. How do you un-maximize a window under Unity? There are no unmaximize or close buttons on a maximized window!

They are on the top left and they auto-hide.  Where you see the window title until you hover over it.  Then, those buttons, along with "File", "Edit", "View" etc...  You can also just double-click on the top of the window where there is no text to maximize/minimize. 

> **ranbo said:**
> 3. The "System" menu icon is off the right side of my screen.  There are apparently a couple of pixels over there I can still click on so I can log out, but it took a while to find it, since it isn't visible.

That may be a driver issue.  If you're using a proprietary driver (like nVidia) you need to install the drivers.  Open the dashboard and type additional drivers (app should appear after just typing add) and then select it.  Then, you open that drivers settings menu and adjust the "overscan" slider.  Or, if you don't need the driver, you may need to change your display settings.  If that doesn't work you may have to use the text editor to change a config file.

> **ranbo said:**
> 4. Many of my application icons are gone, so I have lots of apps with a generic "screen document" icon.

This is where a fresh install might have worked better than an upgrade.  If you tinkered with icons and such on the previous version, those things could have gotten mucked up during the upgrade.

> **ranbo said:**
> 5. Classic interface is gone, and attempting to install it via "sudo apt-get..." didn't help much, because most apps don't have icons; all my launchers are gone; most things are missing from the top panel.  So it's pretty much unusable.

I had these type of issues doing an upgrade, but not doing a new install.  Try it.

> **ranbo said:**
> Overall, this is a complete disaster.  I hate Unity enough so far that I am considering going back to Windoze for the first time in a long time.  Ugh.

Yeah, because everything works right in Windows.

---

### Post by christophevr on 2011-10-25
> **vasa1 said:**
> In case you have issues _and_ would like them to be solved (where that's possible), list them out coherently.

Somehow You're right, .....

The issues here are unfortunately very big.

1) Abillity to work Whitout :
  - compizz
  - unity
  - animition

2) Abillity to work White :
  - clasic gui (at default not that we have to add extra programs)
  - Start terminal at standard like before
  - To set root start terminal on desktop

3) Reintegretion of good working File browser like nautilus was.
  - Possibility to make start launcher
  - Possibility to display file location (so you can copy and paste them when working on projects and script files)
  - possibility To change extented file permissions
  - and ...

If all those above are not met like it is in 11.10 The pc is just reduced to a very restricted tablet pc concerning graphical enviroment.

---

### Post by christophevr on 2011-10-25
[http://www.thetechenthusiast.com/2011/05/gnome-3-step-in-wrong-direction.html](http://www.thetechenthusiast.com/2011/05/gnome-3-step-in-wrong-direction.html)

unity is used now by ubuntu but it's also not good at all.

Ubuntu 11.10 is only good for tablets.

I go and try once kubuntu . If same problems I remain with 11.04. And search on other distro based on old gnome 2.3.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2011-10-25
> **Sorinux said:**
> You are forgetting that Unity was pushed before Gnome 3. And when Gnome 3 was exposed to the web, Ubuntu just copied Unity from netbooks and applied it to the desktop!The specific issues I quoted are changes in GNOME 3, not Unity.
GNOME 3 and Unity were being worked on at the same time, and if you want to accuse one of copying the other, look at GNOME Shell pre-Unity.
> **Sorinux said:**
> Just because everybody is obsessed with net-books, tablets and other small devices, why the desktop user should suffer? Is it so easy to forget that who has a small portable device has also a PC or a bigger laptop?
Or it could be that both Canonical and GNOME took the opportunity to design UIs from the ground up with regards to how people use their computers instead of just tacking on something to what was created ~10 years ago.


> **christophevr said:**
> [http://www.thetechenthusiast.com/2011/05/gnome-3-step-in-wrong-direction.html](http://www.thetechenthusiast.com/2011/05/gnome-3-step-in-wrong-direction.html)This article is about GNOME Shell not Unity :confused:

> **christophevr said:**
> Ubuntu 11.10 is only good for tablets. Why do people keep saying this??? The menu **requires you to do a mouseover which you can't do on a touch device**. Let alone that the menu's targets should be larger if they were designing it for a touch UI.

> **christophevr said:**
> I go and try once kubuntu . If same problems I remain with 11.04. And search on other distro based on old gnome 2.3.Read my signature, all distros will leave GNOME 2.X eventually.

---

### Post by christophevr on 2011-10-25
In previous message I told to try once kubuntu.

I first search info about it. ...
Also there for 11.10 Nothing then bad critics.

[http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2011/10/disappointments-of-kubuntu-1110.html](http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2011/10/disappointments-of-kubuntu-1110.html)

I was not surprised in finding my exact comment about ubuntu 11.10 back. 
This time for kubuntu :

What is my general feeling of Kubuntu 11.10?
I believe this version of Kubuntu is worst I've ever seen so far.

I really would be pleased to be positif about 11.10. I'm unfortunately Honnest. :cry:

---

### Post by Walt2304 on 2011-10-25
Well Guys,
 I have arranged a dual boot up on my laptop. Vista & Ubuntu. I wanted to learn Ubuntu! I was using 10.10. Then up comes a popup telling me to up-grade. I did! It seems I am now using 11.10.
1st bootup and I was into screen which I recognised as a folder, nothing else. After a number of re-bootups I found at the password entry there was a small 'Wheel' clicking this has given me bootup options. Including Gnome 3, so I seem to have Unity and other options. Nice. the learning curve is not so steep. 
Is there an 'Index' of the file name descriptions somewhere. I am confused as to what the files are supposed to do! for example what does 'empathy' supposed to do.
Brian

---

### Post by Spritegeezer on 2011-10-25
I think that what gets lost in all the acrimony, name-calling and condescension is the fact that Ubuntu is a tool.  If 11.04 works for you, keep using it.  If 11.10 is not your cup of tea, dump it on the trash bin (where it belongs, I feel).  You gain nothing from ranting.

Now, if some of the "old hands" would post cogent arguments why we should "upgrade" I will entertain their thinking.  It will require a pretty good explanation of why unity is "the future" of Ubuntu, however.  Just makes it look like a vapid Mac desktop to me.

---

### Post by Sorinux on 2011-10-25
> **Merk42 said:**
> The specific issues I quoted are changes in GNOME 3, not Unity.
GNOME 3 and Unity were being worked on at the same time, and if you want to accuse one of copying the other, look at GNOME Shell pre-Unity.

Or it could be that both Canonical and GNOME took the opportunity to design UIs from the ground up with regards to how people use their computers instead of just tacking on something to what was created ~10 years ago.

It does not matter that much who was first! (this is not some Apple patent) I was thinking that Canonical, when they showed Unity the first time, they were not sure if to put this also on the desktop. But when Gnome start talking about their shell, Canonical just slap Unity on the desktop release also.

---

### Post by Sorinux on 2011-10-25
> **vasa1 said:**
> In case you have issues _and_ would like them to be solved (where that's possible), list them out coherently.

Why should I coherently post again the issues that were all ready posted by sooooo many? I try to avoid Unity, in order to avoid this issues. I could not use it after 2 or 3 hours.

---

### Post by Sorinux on 2011-10-25
> **christophevr said:**
> In previous message I told to try once kubuntu.

I first search info about it. ...
Also there for 11.10 Nothing then bad critics.
[http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2011/10/disappointments-of-kubuntu-1110.html](http://linuxblog.darkduck.com/2011/10/disappointments-of-kubuntu-1110.html)
I was not surprised in finding my exact comment about ubuntu 11.10 back. 
This time for kubuntu :
What is my general feeling of Kubuntu 11.10?
I believe this version of Kubuntu is worst I've ever seen so far.
I really would be pleased to be positif about 11.10. I'm unfortunately Honnest. :cry:

I know what you want to say. Kubntu or Xubuntu or what other ..buntu you want to try are not alternatives for Gnome 2.32. They will start loosing users to the Windows 7 camp and they will not understand why.
What we can do now is to have a little patience to see what Mint will do. They talk about MATE project but they also said they will try to make Gnome 3 moooore friendly. I am very curios about that.

---

### Post by Stray Wolf on 2011-10-26
> **Walt2304 said:**
> Well Guys,
 I have arranged a dual boot up on my laptop. Vista & Ubuntu. I wanted to learn Ubuntu! I was using 10.10. Then up comes a popup telling me to up-grade. I did! It seems I am now using 11.10.
1st bootup and I was into screen which I recognised as a folder, nothing else. After a number of re-bootups I found at the password entry there was a small 'Wheel' clicking this has given me bootup options. Including Gnome 3, so I seem to have Unity and other options. Nice. the learning curve is not so steep. 
Is there an 'Index' of the file name descriptions somewhere. I am confused as to what the files are supposed to do! for example what does 'empathy' supposed to do.
Brian
 
If you upgraded and everything works good then awesome! If things glitch then do a back-up then a fresh install.  Configs don't always translate well into new versions.  If using Unity go to the Dashboard Application Lens (click the "Dash Home" and select "More Apps").  To the right of the search bar you'll see "Filter Results".  Click and choose a what type of app your looking for.  The dash will show corresponding apps based on most used, installed and available to install.  Or you can go to the software center to brows all installed programs.

---

### Post by christophevr on 2011-10-26
> **Sorinux said:**
> I know what you want to say. Kubntu or Xubuntu or what other ..buntu you want to try are not alternatives for Gnome 2.32. They will start loosing users to the Windows 7 camp and they will not understand why.
What we can do now is to have a little patience to see what Mint will do. They talk about MATE project but they also said they will try to make Gnome 3 moooore friendly. I am very curios about that.

Hello, 

That might be, I do not really think that ubuntu will loose the users for windows. The funniest is that for a lot of persons it becomes easier for work. Those persons are at this time not the typical linux or ubuntu users.

Now the 11.04 and 10.10 are still working fine As long You use classic and no animation. I will try out now the 11.10 on other pc and try to find out the best working way. That pc is well much older (7 years now but hass already 2 GB of ram and amd X2 processor) . Also will try to find the best way of working and work arounds for ubuntu to make it again practical and usable. Like for nautilus there seems to be ways of forcing permanant settings without the use off gconf-editor. and so on 

I wil well use gnome3 unity is really not that (for me). It does work that well but missing so what all I use and need. It forces me to do almost everything from a terminal

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2011-10-26
> **Sorinux said:**
> It does not matter that much who was first! (this is not some Apple patent) I was thinking that Canonical, when they showed Unity the first time, they were not sure if to put this also on the desktop. But when Gnome start talking about their shell, Canonical just slap Unity on the desktop release also.
Nice use of the word 'slap' to insinuate there was no change between Ubuntu Netbook Remix/Edition and Unity.

What really happened was this:

**GNOME:** OH hey, so we're rebuilding our desktop for GTK+3, it'll be called GNOME Shell
**CANONICAL:** Nice, we've always been a big supporter of GNOME, we like a lot of this, but there's a few areas that we feel you should rethink
**GNOME:** NO!
**CANONICAL:** Well I'm sorry, but we don't like some parts of your UI, so we'll just build our own.

---

### Post by christophevr on 2011-10-26
Installation of ubuntu on older PC (amd 64 X3 3.333) 2 GB Ram
2 HD sata standard 7200 RPM 300 GB
1 HD sata T TB
Plextor dvd reader/writer.(sata)

Basic install went fine However very very slow +- 2 hours. This is well due to the sata dvd writer. Wich does not run very good for basic installations.
With previous versions I had to use E-ide dvd Cd reader/writer. Wich currently is on another pc. Now slow but it even installed from sata driver on concerned pc. That's an improvement.

1) First the basic unity ubuntu with unity:

This point is already discussed much. Maybe be good for some user, even excellent for them. If you only use pc for browsing e-mail and a couple off pretty standard programs. It will also avoid finger troubles from persons who does not really understand a operating system. Ideal for kids if you install their favorite programs.
But it actually just turns you pc To a good basic Tablet PC. It does well work good and stable.

2) Now we come to the real and more experienced till very experienced user.

Unity forget it. First install gnome desktop and gnome shell. restart pc.and launch with gnome (not classic)

Oh much different and indeed no panel and so ...

Well everything is there . It's just a full new concept. And You will have to learn an entire new way of work. Just click applications. A new screen will open with on the left quick lauchers called favorites in gnome3.
Then up Windows next to it Applications. when You click on applications. Your panel appears on the right. The only missing is the system panel. You needed system utility's are there provided you install them in other or management or ... 
Just install with sudo apt-get install gnome-system-tools

the most will be back.

there is so much. It just a mather of time to learn that shell. bassically I think when really used to it I'll be happy like I was for the old 2.3 pannel.

Here A very usefull link with manual of GNOME

[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GNOME](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GNOME)

especially the customizing section is very good.

3) At this time A really have only ONE severe BUG For me this is critical as I need it daily.
The gnome-alsamixer DOES NOT WORK. This is unforntuantely the only remaining option to control my audio card. Pulse standard volume control can't manage this card at all. Ok pulse can do basic things and is good for programs who runs on pc and use pcm entry. But can not control the line input cd input aux input and DTS audio.

alsamixergui does not work (only two channels)

The terminal alsamixer does work, But is very unpractical.

As the matter of fact, the not working gnome-alsamixer is A RED light to the use of ubuntu 11.10 at this time For 80 to 90 % of the desktop users who uses Chipset or advanced audio cards with several input channels.
And needs them.

p.s. It has nothing to do with basic volume control as pulse self is working fine, and is very good in integration from several programs like rhtyhmbox , vmware stations and ....

Tommorow I will investigate this problem further and in case of file a bug repport and or work around if found (first try to compile the source ). Somehow I think it's related to a missing library somewhere.

---

### Post by buddhadba on 2011-10-27
I'd tried Unity in 11.04 for three months and couldn't use it, least of which being that the fly-in menu would lock on the left and I'd have to reboot to get it to go away. So, after upgrade to 11.10, I loaded Gnome Shell and never looked back. To me, Unity's not a problem because I know it doesn't work (on my computer).

No, the REAL problems I've encountered with the upgrade were first having to load a driver for my Broadcomm wireless modem for the first time in three or four upgrades. This used to work flawlessly. now we're back to Intrepid or before.

Second, I've lost my ability to print to my HP Laserjet 4L. I've spent the last two days trying to get it to work, have tried everything I could find online about it, but to no avail. 

Sorry, but this really doesn't seem like a mature upgrade, where the last several versions just kept getting better and better, upgrade-wise. Ubuntu was truly becoming something my <fill in computer-illiterate relative/friend> could install and use without a lot of assistance. So much for that.

Note too that I had so much trouble getting any flavor of _ubuntu 11.04 to run on my old laptop that I installed Fedora, which uses the Gnome Shell and works just fine. I had one config to perform on the Broadcomm modem in that laptop, and that was it (though I haven't tried printing from it...)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-10-27
Could all of you that are having a bad experience upgrading, please see the upgrade/install experience thread located here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865027&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865027&page=3)

and add your experience, please also add what your expectations were before upgrading.

So far the good is outweighing the bad leading to skewed results.

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2011-10-27
I would recommend to try Xubuntu if you don't like Unity/Gnome3. There is a lot of other DEs and Distros out there, so give them a try.

---

### Post by ranbo on 2011-10-27
I'm the original poster here.  Fortunately I DID have a backup of my data from before the upgrade.  (Always handy to have a 2TB external drive around, and it only costs $100 these days).

Yesterday I wiped my laptop and reinstalled 11.04, and selected the "classic" (gnome) environment.

Now my e-mail works again on Outlook under Crossover office (I had battled for days to get Thunderbird to work, and it almost did, but not quite.  Outlook under crossover isn't perfect, either, of course).

I guess I'll hang out with 11.04 until I get word that 12.04 is worth the trouble.  Unity simply isn't as easy to use.  It may look more like the mobile interface, but I'm not on a mobile interface--I've got two monitors, a keyboard and a mouse at my disposal.

Whoever is doing the Ubuntu releases should realize that although releasing every 6 months is a great goal, it's better to miss the goal than to release garbage.  This was the first time in several years that I seriously considered going to windoze.

Badly done.

---

### Post by christophevr on 2011-10-28
Hello,  

In the mean time I get used to the 11.10. (With gnome-shell that well)

Just 4 hours ago a prefix was launched to my only last RED LIGHT for 11.10 on my main pc.

GNOME-ALSAMIXER work's with that  GREAT :P

See bug report and follow up

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-alsamixer/+bug/849415](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-alsamixer/+bug/849415)

At the end it will even turn out to be better then previous, the day i'm fully used to it (with gnome-shell NOT unity)

:lolflag:

---

### Post by jl2035 on 2012-01-02
I previously read "Ubuntu 11.10 is the 'Windows Vista' of Ubuntu releases."

and i totally agree... What were they thinking??? Fixing bunch of stuff that was not even broken...and taking many useful stuff out? I hate that. What do they want me to do...move to KDE? I hate KDE! 

Anyway Ubuntu is not usable anymore! I will always miss the good old Gnome2...

UBUNTU PEOPLE PLEASE LEAVE UNITY BEHIND!!!  :(

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2012-01-02
> **jl2035 said:**
> UBUNTU PEOPLE PLEASE LEAVE UNITY BEHIND!!!  :(

For GNOME Shell then? (read my signatures)

---

