---
title: "32 or 64 bit"
date: 2012-01-19
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by nataliafoster26 on 2012-01-19
im about to download ubuntu 10.04 (not 11 because i hear it got bugs anyways) but not sure if to choose 32 or 64 bit. i have a 64 bit o.s. windows 7 . would it make a difference for 32 or 64, i see 32 is the one recommended.
thanks

---

### Post by Buntumatic on 2012-01-19
64 all the way.

---

### Post by nataliafoster26 on 2012-01-19
ok but what would be the difference between 32 and 64?

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-01-19
Every version of everything has its bugs.

64 bit OSes and software take advantage of the increased performance of 64 bit machine architecture and instruction sets.  32 bit OSes and software will generally run on a 64 bit machine, but will gain no performance advantage.

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2012-01-19
This comes up on the forum all the time, do a search. Long story short if you have 64-bit capable hardware then 64-bit Ubuntu is the best option for most users.

---

### Post by Buntumatic on 2012-01-19
> **nataliafoster26 said:**
> ok but what would be the difference between 32 and 64?

I shall mention 64-bit Linux matured a long time ago, way before MS got there (are they there now?). Accessing more than ~1 GiB memory is a hack on 32-bit systems, just stop thinking 32-bit.

---

### Post by Ecip on 2012-01-19
Heh, this topic has been beat to hell and back. If you have a 64 bit processor, 64 bit is the way to go.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-01-19
Moved to Recurring Discussions where is next to many similar threads.

---

### Post by Snowmane on 2012-01-28
My PC is a Intel x64 with 4GB of RAM.
I read rumours about some problems with Ubuntu 11.10 x64.
So... install x32 or x64?

Thanks!

---

### Post by mcduck on 2012-01-28
Running a 64-bit system really shouldn't cause you any problems these days. I'd definitely recommend making a 64-bit install since your hardware supports it.

---

### Post by Double.J on 2012-01-28
Hi there, these days the only real reason to go 32bit is if you have 3GB or less ram - 32bit wouldn't be using your machine's full potential. The only error that seems to come up with 64bit at the moment on the forums is getting logged out by the system - this appears to be caused by installing the wrong drivers?

All in all I'd definitely go 64; my personal experience is no problems on mine or families machines (totaling 4 64bit installs). At the end of the day it isn't AS stable as 32bit, but it seems to be about the same kind of difference as 10.04 and 11.04 in terms of stability if that helps?

If nothing else the next release 12.04 will be 64bit by default, and as you can't upgrade 32bit to 64bit, I'd have thought it'd make sence to go 64. You will be able to run 32 12.04 (I am) but I think it says a lot about 64bit stability that Ubuntu are now making it default.

Hope it helps :)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-01-28
Merged into Recurring Discussions.

---

