---
title: "11.10"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: Recurring Discussions
---

### Post by Sailejay on 2011-10-19
Community,

If this is posted in the wrong forum section, I offer my humble apologies.

     Hey there folks! Now, I'm not here to flame any given desktop environment - I have used both Gnome Shell and Unity. I can't say either one straight up sucks, or that someone is somehow inferior for loving Unity or Gnome, but they both leave a lot to be desired. The glaring problem with both desktop environments is the total lack of customization. When I migrated over to Linux (Ubuntu) about a year and a half ago I really loved the amount of customization and freedom (only thing that kept me from nuking Windows was World of Warcraft, I admit it). It now seems, however, that freedom has been taken away - it appears Ubuntu is going down the path of incrementally removing customization and other functions/options, and watering down the OS in the process. For instance Unity ships with no option to change my themes in a meaningful way. I started a thread here a day or two ago in an attempt to get shortcuts easily added to Gnome Shell (shortcuts, Clementine for example, beyond what Gnome Tweak Tool allows) and that was an uphill battle, requiring me to log into unity, move shortcuts to desktop and going back to Gnome Shell. Both Unity and Gnome Shell seem, how do you say... sterile.  
 

      In the end, for the first time, Ubuntu feels very restricted like Windows or something &#8211; I didn't think Mark Shuttleworth was like that: Like Gates or Jobs who lock down their OSes. I know both of these desktop environments (Gnome Shell + Unity) are new, and perhaps that is the reason for the restricted and barren feeling of the environments, but I am almost at a point where I am considering switching to Mint, especially considering Mint 12 &#8220;Lisa&#8221; will ship with Gnome 2. I love trying new things, I'm no Linux Luddite, but when moving over to something new, I expect it to be better, I expect to be doing my new thing and look back at the old and think &#8220;Ughhh, how did I like that.&#8221; This is especially true with respect to technology.
 

      Ladies and Gentlemen, if some programmer happens to read this please know: I really like Ubuntu (and probably wouldn't *really* switch to Mint, although tempting), but please, please, with sugar on top give us some simple functionality. I mean, really, Synaptic not included? What Gives? Sure, I hopped over to the software center and installed it, but what the hell on having to do that?! It's not that it wasn't there, or that it takes all of, what, 30 seconds to get it &#8211; it's the principle.  
 

 Unity wouldn't be half as bad if it came with some cool themes, and allowed me to switch my launcher bar (or whatever it's called) to the bottom, top, middle, or *whatever the hell I desire* section of the screen.  
 

      Still I have faith in Ubuntu, and I do believe 12.04 will be better (and eagerly await its release, especially since its LTS), just as 11.10 is better than 11.04, early bugs notwithstanding. So what do you folks think? Are you enjoying Gnome Shell, or Unity? Are you worried the direction Ubuntu is taking? Will it be soon overtaken by another distro, like Mint?What's your take on 11.10 thus far?

EDIT: By the way, "Gnome Classic" absolutely blows on 11.10, so I can't really "fallback" to that.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2011-10-20
Perhaps you should try Xubuntu. You can mimic most of Gnome2 in XFCE. There's a bunch of DE's and WM's you can choose from in Ubuntu.

Another options is to use AWN on top of Ubuntu, you can customize AWN as a panel.
Later you can try (around 12.04), Pantheon if you don't like Unity or Gnome Shell: [http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/02/elementarys-slingshot-plank-apps-just-what-are-they-and-why/](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/02/elementarys-slingshot-plank-apps-just-what-are-they-and-why/)
You can check more at: [http://elementaryos.org/](http://elementaryos.org/)

---

### Post by vidtek on 2011-10-20
Sailejay-

I must say I agree with you, dumbing down of Ubuntu is really bad.  I use KDE and can still tweak that to my heart's content.
Why dish Synaptic in favour of it's wishy-washy successor?

I have never understood why in the later distros very few come with built-in kernel/module making.
If there is no network connection you're stuffed.  It's not as though there's no room for it on a dvd.
I have run across several new mobos where the network requires modules to make it work, and I fear there will be many more to come in the future.  *THIS ISSUE REALLY NEEDS TO BE ADDRESSED*[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon4.gif[/IMG], and nobody seems to be listening, or maybe it's just too hard.

Another thing, I use Mythbuntu and would you believe there is no gui text editor?  I think there is vi, but seriously, how difficult to put a simple text editor in the distro? 

It's weird, I know everyone has a different take on stuff, but I never use a good 50% of the included bits, and would really like some of the simple stuff included. 

Tony

---

### Post by gui_love on 2011-10-20
Agree with you Sailejay,we need Gnome back and Synaptic really miss.Feel like Ubuntu 11.10 shut down the linux liberty.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2011-10-20
I can see there's FUD flying around in the replies, so I better correct them.

[quote=vidtek]
Another thing, I use Mythbuntu and would you believe there is no gui text editor? I think there is vi, but seriously, how difficult to put a simple text editor in the distro? 
[/quote]

Mythbuntu is a Derivative of Ubuntu which have the own development team. What they do and put in Mythbuntu have nothing to do with Ubuntu.
Other than that how had is it to install it by yourself? Mythbuntu was made for a purpose to some specific tasks, so my guess is that they have to choose wisely what to put down the CD.

from mythbuntu homepage
*Mythbuntu is a community supported add-on for Ubuntu focused upon setting up a standalone MythTV based PVR system.*


[quote=gui_love]Agree with you Sailejay,we need Gnome back and Synaptic really miss.Feel like Ubuntu 11.10 shut down the linux liberty.[/quote]

Ubuntu DE is Gnome. It uses Unity shell instead Gnome Shell which also can be installed in Ubuntu. Just because it isn't default doesn't mean it's available.
Synaptic can be installed with a click or two. It's still there.
So you still have your liberty to choose.

By the way Gnome2 is dead and have nothing to do with Ubuntu. If you're going to bark, bark at the Gnome devs.

---

### Post by vidtek on 2011-10-20
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> I can see there's FUD flying around in the replies, so I better correct them.



Mythbuntu is a Derivative of Ubuntu which have the own development team. What they do and put in Mythbuntu have nothing to do with Ubuntu.
Other than that how had is it to install it by yourself? Mythbuntu was made for a purpose to some specific tasks, so my guess is that they have to choose wisely what to put down the CD.

from mythbuntu homepage
*Mythbuntu is a community supported add-on for Ubuntu focused upon setting up a standalone MythTV based PVR system.*




Ubuntu DE is Gnome. It uses Unity shell instead Gnome Shell which also can be installed in Ubuntu. Just because it isn't default doesn't mean it's available.
Synaptic can be installed with a click or two. It's still there.
So you still have your liberty to choose.

By the way Gnome2 is dead and have nothing to do with Ubuntu. If you're going to bark, bark at the Gnome devs.

AI-

I'm aware that Mythbuntu has it's own development team and is removed from the main Ubuntu devs.
I was pointing out the strange way that all distro developers make their decisions to include stuff or not in their releases, seemingly just on a whim.  Oh well, it's the price we pay for open source, and I for one am exceedingly grateful for all their hard work,  whims and all.

Best regards to all, Tony.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2011-10-20
No hard feelings :KS

---

### Post by Sailejay on 2011-10-20
Yeah, I agree with you folks. The funny thing is that as they dumb down the OS through certain desktop environments, they actually make it needlessly harder for some tinkerers to use. Like I said, though, I have a certain level of faith in believing that these desktops (Gnome Shell and Unity) will improve - they have to. Besides, in avoiding Unity and Gnome Shell I open up to other environments, like Xfce, and KDE - the latter of which I am about to test drive. Xfce is nice, it really is - very ergonomic, if that makes sense, but KDE looks nice and going by what I see other folks saying, I can customize the hell out of that desktop. 

But yeah, Imma go try out Kubuntu - I hope it's stable though, I write a lot of papers for school and whatnot.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-10-21
A lot of the changes complained about ("Ubuntu's dumbing down the OS because you can't change fonts without installing a special program!" etc) are actually upstream Gnome changes.

Ubuntu did not remove the theme customisation, Gnome did. The change landed downstream in Ubuntu like all Gnome changes do.

Synaptic is a great tool that I highly recommend, but it doesn't really need to be on the CD anymore. Save some space, ship without it; that 700 megabyte limit is tough. If you want Synaptic, use Software Center or Apt-get. Eventually the default set of programs should all be simple for the user, and difficult to accidentally bork your system with. I've seen a lot of posts where people have accidentally removed most of their system with Synaptic.

---

