---
title: "The chain reaction thread reborn!"
date: 2013-09-13
forum: Cafe Games
---

### Post by codingman on 2013-09-13
There used to be one of these threads in here a long time a go...

Rules: Just add on to what the previous poster has said, but keep it on topic!

Example: I kick a ball

I catch it

I knock it out of *username*'s hands.

And so on.

So i'll start it here: I jump on a trampoline.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-09-13
And die....

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-09-13
and go to ..

---

### Post by codingman on 2013-09-13
the land of penguins, which is known as...

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-09-14
penguin land, and I see a window

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-09-14
all blacked out

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-09-14
I go through this window and enter the valley of no driver support ..

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-09-14
where everything is dead

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-09-14
But then a great light shines through the darkness and a mighty voice says to me "fear not my child, for I am the mighty god "google" and I  will show you the way to the window of light...

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2013-09-14
which is triple glazed and comes with ...

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-09-14
many commands.  Can I make this journey?  While I ponder this another voice speaks down to me.

"BEWARE, for I am "terminal" and I am an unforgiving god.  Toy with me and I will send you to the land of never ending grief".

My fear overwhelms me and I drop to my knees ..

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-09-14
and then, out of nowhere...

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-09-14
appears this odd looking creature with a large head and large eyes.  It says to me:

"fear me not, for I am your friend.  My name is "copy and paste" and I will help you stay on the path to the window of light"

I rise to my feet and ..

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-09-14
forget to pull up my pants...

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-09-14
and immediately trip, falling on my new found friend and killing it.  I hand my head in shame, knowing the last image it burned to memory.  But wait, those magic words that I read about,  Will they work on my ill-fated friend?  I must try! And I shout out:

"SUDO APT-GET -F INSTALL"

and ..

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-09-14
a reverberation through the hallowed halls
 "command not found .. not found .. not found..."

So I,

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-09-14
shout again, but before I finish I fall to the ground in great pain.  Half daze, I look up and see a Elf(y) with a very big club.  He looks down at me and says:

"You have violated the "Sacred Scripts of CoC".  Shouting will not be tolerated, you have been warned. And he turns and leaves".

What madness is this ..

---

### Post by codingman on 2013-09-15
that I have violated the Coke regulations! Shouting doesn't have anything to do with opening a cap!

So I grab a nearby sword and hack it at the other people in the Land Of Penguins!

A cat who likes coffee, (coffeecat) comes along...

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-09-15
and starts trying to scratch me.
But it was wearing mittens.
Out of the darkness came a snickering.
A mouse was sitting on a dog's head, and they were both laughing at the cat.
So I,

---

### Post by codingman on 2013-09-23
Throw a piece of cheddar cheese into the air, and the mouse jumps into the air and nabs the cheese. 
Coffeecat gets mad and jumps at the mouse, then the dog by the name of kevdog jumps onto the cat, while the mouse bites the tail of the dog.
An infinite loop occurs, and a bunch of trolls come over to stomp me out,

When I...

---

### Post by Pinoy Tux on 2013-09-24
...realize the trolls will overpower me, I jumped in the middle of the infinite loop being generated by the three mouse-kev-cat-teers.  The loop spins faster and faster, creating a vortex that kept getting bigger.  Suddenly,

---

### Post by *PTR on 2013-10-10
I understood the meaning of life.
It is so simple, just

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2013-10-12
Banana explosion.

---

