---
title: "Ubuntu One SSO breaks Ubuntuforums"
date: 2014-04-22
forum: Resolution Centre
---

### Post by mrashley2 on 2014-04-22
A complaint:

Ubuntu One broke my long-standing ubuntuforums login. I've deleted my account and re-created, but that was lame. 

It amounted to an error loop saying:
Login with SSO
Ubuntuforums reports: "Your username is too long"
(I did not select the username, so I assume it was autogenerated by Ubuntu One, but I couldn't delete it.)

This was all very disheartening because I had an issue which I needed to report, so I just gave up and formatted my drive losing my data. Lame and pathetic. I'm pretty much considering going back to Microsoft products as a result of this debacle.

Politically I agree with FLOSS, but pragmatically I'm so disappointed I want to give up on Ubuntu which I've used since 5.04. Thank Corenominal for Crunchbang.

Meandering, but there it is.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]252359[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Elfy on 2014-04-22
I'd love to know how you deleted your account here.

I guess you didn't bother reading any of the stickies either.

I'll not bother trying to help you retrieve your old account as you seem to not want an account here anymore.

Why you felt the need to format you drive because you couldn't access an old forum account I just don't understand at all.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-04-22
> **mrashley2 said:**
> Ubuntu One broke my long-standing ubuntuforums login.

No it didn't. If your attempt to log into an old ubuntuforums account failed, then there is only one explanation - you used the wrong email in Ubuntu One. If you have a pre-existing forum account and the email matches the Ubuntu One email, then the system links the two accounts together and the old forum account username is used - the Ubuntu One username and Full Name fields are ignored.

> **mrashley2 said:**
> 
It amounted to an error loop saying:
Login with SSO
Ubuntuforums reports: "Your username is too long"
(I did not select the username, so I assume it was autogenerated by Ubuntu One, but I couldn't delete it.)

That sounds like an error generated if the system is trying to create a new forum account - which substantiates the impression that you used the wrong email. The algorithm to create a forum username from the Ubuntu One login credentials is complex but in essence it uses the first 18 characters of the Ubuntu One username, or Full Name field or local part of the email in that order depending on certain conditions. If the Ubuntu One field that is used for the forum name is more than 18 characters, it should simply drop the excess characters, so it would appear that a bug may have been triggered. Since this is the first time that I have seen this problem reported in the more than 7 months that SSO login has been in use, the bug would be an obscure one but one that needs to be looked into, but I can only report this to Canonical IS if I have full details. If you wish to help resolve this issue, please pm me with the details you have obfuscated in your screenshot.

Returning to the issue of your previous ubuntuforums account: we can help you log into that but only if you respond without the melodrama of your first post. What is the username of the older forums account?

---

