---
title: "Better forum for thread?"
date: 2014-08-14
forum: Resolution Centre
---

### Post by linbu on 2014-08-14
Is it possible for a Moderator to move the following:

Forum:	New to Ubuntu
Thread:	[Lubuntu] lxpanel SegFault after Upgrade
Starter:	Sanctimonious_Ape

To:

Forum:	Installation & Upgrades

It may do better there in receiving responses.

If so, thank you :-)

Hank

---

### Post by Elfy on 2014-08-15
Thread appears to be doing fine where it is.

In future rather than posting this type of thing here - use the Report Post button, will get seen sooner.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-08-15
A few points.

You've posted in the Resolution Centre which is for:

> This is the place to contact a forum admin concerning problems with your forum account, to appeal moderator action, to request a thread be moved from the jail, or to file a complaint about forum harrassment or abuse.  

If you want to request/suggest a thread move, please use the Report Post button on the first post of the thread. The report button is used for much more than just spam and abusive posts. If you use the report button, an autogenerated post is made in the staff area where any of the moderating staff can deal with it.

Thanks for the suggestion, but I think we'll leave it where it is for now unless the OP requests a move. Although we are happy to consider move suggestions from any member of the forum in order to place threads in the best place, and although the OP of this thread's previous experience with Unix may help them with a Linux distribution, they chose to post in a sub-forum called "New to Ubuntu" and in most cases we respect the OP's choice when they choose New to Ubuntu. In this case, I doubt a move would get them more responses.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-08-15
Oops - ninja'd by Elfy while I was typing my more prolix response!

---

