---
title: "can't boot internal drive Linux with firwire bootstrap"
date: 2007-02-27
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by seatea on 2007-02-27
I have been able to boot my external firewire partition of ubuntu, Dapper, along with my internal drive's partiton of Edgy. I am getting ready to replace my internal hard drive due to problems and I have been setting up the firewire drive to take over booting. I am also planning to go back to Dapper on my internal hard drive. I finally got the bootstrap partiton on my firewire drive to work properly and I can boot to the firewire drive without problem. I cannot get the root partition of my internal hard drive to mount.  I do have separate home and root partitions on the internal hard drive, but a single partiton of root with home on the firewire drive. When I  get to the boot prompt in yaboot and enter the choice for my internal hard drive, linux-hd, it appears to be loading, but then goes to a kernel panic. The message I get is:
"47.3250941 Kernel panic- not syncing: VFS: Unable to mount root fs on unknown block(0,0)
47.3253601_".

Can anyone tell me whaat is wring here or how to mount  my internal drive's copy of ubuntu using the firewire drive's bootstrap? 

Here is a copy of my yaboot.conf:
"## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda9
ofboot=/pci@f2000000/pci-bridge@d/firewire@a/node@00d0b87c455b37df/sbp-2@4008/disk@0:9
ofdevice=/pci@f2000000/pci-bridge@d/firewire@a/node@00d0b87c455b37df/sbp-2@4008/disk@0:
partition=15
timeout=100
delay=40
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
enableofboot
defaultos=macosx
macosx=/dev/sda10
macos=/dev/sda14


image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	root=8:15
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="root=/dev/sda15 rootdelay=10 quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
	label=old
	root=8:15
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
	append="root=/dev/sda15 rootdelay=10 quiet splash "


#The following is the "old" Edgy from hard drive, /dev/hda11
image=/pci@f2000000/pci-bridge@d/mac-io@7/ata-4@1f000/disk@0:11,/boot/vmlinux
        root=/pci@f2000000/pci-bridge@d/mac-io@7/ata-4@1f000/disk@0:11
        label=linux-hd
        read-only   
        intrd=/pci@f2000000/pci-bridge@d/mac-io@7/ata-4@1f000/disk@0:11,/boot/intrd.img
	append="root=/dev/hda11 rootdelay=20 ro quiet splash"




#The following was added from firewire drive,/dev/sda12
image=/pci@f2000000/pci-bridge@d/firewire@a/node@00d0b87c455b37df/sbp-2@4008/disk@0:12,/boot/vmlinux-2.6.15-rc5.ydl.1
        root=/dev/sda12
        label=yellowdog
        read-only
        initrd=/pci@f2000000/pci-bridge@d/firewire@a/node@00d0b87c455b37df/sbp-2@4008/disk@0:12,/boot/initrd-2.6.15-rc5.ydl.1.img"

---

