---
title: "2.6.17 ppc problem"
date: 2006-07-19
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by bogoliubov on 2006-07-19
Hello. I tried to compile a new kernel (2.6.17.6) on my iBook G4.
I followed this howto: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217657&highlight=2.6.17](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217657&highlight=2.6.17)

I added som tweaks during xconfig part to get all stuff working for the iBook. But now when I try to boot the new kernel it stops at "mounting root file system" and then it goes to text mode and says:

ALERT! /dev/hda/2 does not exist. Dropping to a shell.

and then:
/bin/sh: can't access tty: job control turned off

I can still choose the old kernel when booting, but I want the new one.
What's wrong and what can I do?


If it's useful I have this fstab:
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
/dev/hda2       /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0      1
/dev/hda4       /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/hda5       none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hda3 /mnt/macos hfsplus noauto,user,rw 0 0

---

### Post by rasec on 2006-07-19
Did you modify your yaboot.conf? If you did, it looks like you might have made a typo for /dev/hda2, you wrote /dev/hda/2. If you didn't touch yaboot.conf, than you initrd image is probably the culprit. I don't know how to make initrd images, but I think that if you specify the ext3 filesystem to be compiled in the kernel instead of a loadable module, your problem should go away.

---

### Post by va3uxb on 2006-07-19
I could be way out to lunch on this but it looks like there is a typo somewhere.

The alert saying it can't find /dev/hda/2 looks wrong.  Is something really looking for /dev/hda/2 or should it be looking for /dev/hda2?

Check in your bootloader.  I assume you have at least two entries in the bootloader, one pointing to the new kernel and one pointing to the old kernel.  The entry with the new kernel referenced might have a typo listing where to find the root partition.

That's just my guess, based on the way the alert is depicted.

-Stephanie

---

### Post by linuxnewbie946 on 2006-07-21
Your menu.lst should have root=/dev/hda2 for the new kernel.

---

### Post by rasec on 2006-07-21
Isn't menu.lst used by grub for the x86. PPCs use yaboot instead of grub.

---

### Post by bogoliubov on 2006-07-26
Thanks for the help; I've been away on vacation for a few days; will check your suggestions as soon as I can.

---

### Post by bogoliubov on 2006-07-26
> **rasec said:**
> Did you modify your yaboot.conf? If you did, it looks like you might have made a typo for /dev/hda2, you wrote /dev/hda/2. If you didn't touch yaboot.conf, than you initrd image is probably the culprit. I don't know how to make initrd images, but I think that if you specify the ext3 filesystem to be compiled in the kernel instead of a loadable module, your problem should go away.

Yep, I tried this; but couldn't make it work anyhow. I'll check if there are other things that need to be present in the kernel...

---

### Post by rasec on 2006-07-26
So are you using the ubuntu config from your /boot directory or did you make your own. If you are making your own from, be sure to use the pmac32_defconfig config from linux/arch/powerpc directory as your base and work off of that. I don't remember if I got the default ubuntu config to work on 2.6.17.3, but I'll attach my config just in case you want to use it as a starting point. By the way, I have a 15" Al powerbook with the radeon 9600 mobility video card. 

One thing to keep in mind is that your stock (non-ubuntu) kernel will not have the ubuntu splash screen. So don't be afraid if your start up screen looks a little different. Also, I didn't need a initrd image with my kernel config.

---

### Post by bogoliubov on 2006-07-27
> **rasec said:**
> So are you using the ubuntu config from your /boot directory or did you make your own. If you are making your own from, be sure to use the pmac32_defconfig config from linux/arch/powerpc directory as your base and work off of that. I don't remember if I got the default ubuntu config to work on 2.6.17.3, but I'll attach my config just in case you want to use it as a starting point. By the way, I have a 15" Al powerbook with the radeon 9600 mobility video card. 

One thing to keep in mind is that your stock (non-ubuntu) kernel will not have the ubuntu splash screen. So don't be afraid if your start up screen looks a little different. Also, I didn't need a initrd image with my kernel config.

Yep. I was using the boot config. I'll try the one you're describing. Thank's alot for the tip! By the way; do you think there's a big difference between 2.6.15 and 2.6.17 kernels?

---

### Post by bogoliubov on 2006-07-27
I tried the pmac32_defconfig and this worked! But when using this config, I couldn't find anything about the airport extreme card (BCM43xx or something like that). Do you know how to get the wireless to work? Perhaps the Al P-book has the older Airport card?

Anyway, thanks again!

---

### Post by rasec on 2006-07-27
Yeah, I got the bcm43xx driver working. There's a thread over at the gentoo forum that explains how to configure the kernel: [http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-409194.html](http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-409194.html)

Is the bcm43xx driver working for you in the 2.6.15 kernel? I think the ubuntu devs backported all of the changes to bcm43xx driver in the 2.6.17 kernel to the 2.6.15 kernel, so if you got it working with the original ubuntu kernel it should work with 2.6.17.

---

### Post by bogoliubov on 2006-07-27
> **rasec said:**
> Yeah, I got the bcm43xx driver working. There's a thread over at the gentoo forum that explains how to configure the kernel: [http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-409194.html](http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-409194.html)

Is the bcm43xx driver working for you in the 2.6.15 kernel? I think the ubuntu devs backported all of the changes to bcm43xx driver in the 2.6.17 kernel to the 2.6.15 kernel, so if you got it working with the original ubuntu kernel it should work with 2.6.17.

Nope. I heard that the 2.6.17 kernel should have better support for the bcm43xx. Anyway, I don't think it worked with 2.6.15; I didn't put much effort into trying....

Thank's for the tip!

---

