---
title: "Ubuntu on original eMac"
date: 2006-07-26
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by 61_revisited on 2006-07-26
I did a search and found a thread that applied to an older version of ubuntu but not the latest.  I had no trouble installing the OS but after the ubuntu splash screen, there is no image, I hear the login screen drums and can even login and hear start up music but there is nothing but a blank screen.  I have a 700 mhz eMac with Nvidia Gforce2 MX graphics.

I tried several fixes that I found on the forum through searching but couldn't get any of them to work.  I've tried Linux before (Yellow Dog) but it would let me configure the display after there was an xserver error but ubuntu won't.  I'm novice when it comes to the command line but can't seem to get anything to work except 
ctrl-option-F1 to get to a command prompt
sudo nano /etc/x11/xorg.conf  (will work but its just a blank editor)

There doesn't seem to be a file that exists, if anyone can help walk me through this the assistance would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by aristotlewilde on 2006-07-26
I had similar issues on a PC.  The way I got around it was to install in "safe graphics mode".  

I know it is a simple solution, but it worked for me. Hope it helps.

---

### Post by Ziox on 2006-07-26
> **61_revisited said:**
> I did a search and found a thread that applied to an older version of ubuntu but not the latest.  I had no trouble installing the OS but after the ubuntu splash screen, there is no image, I hear the login screen drums and can even login and hear start up music but there is nothing but a blank screen.  I have a 700 mhz eMac with Nvidia Gforce2 MX graphics.

I tried several fixes that I found on the forum through searching but couldn't get any of them to work.  I've tried Linux before (Yellow Dog) but it would let me configure the display after there was an xserver error but ubuntu won't.  I'm novice when it comes to the command line but can't seem to get anything to work except 
ctrl-option-F1 to get to a command prompt
sudo nano /etc/x11/xorg.conf  (will work but its just a blank editor)

There doesn't seem to be a file that exists, if anyone can help walk me through this the assistance would be greatly appreciated.

when you typed in that command :/etc/X11/xorg.conf, did you captilize the 'X' in "X11"? because that would be a difference dir. to ubuntu.  make sure that X is capitalized.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-26
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=190168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=190168) might be of help.

---

### Post by Skia_42 on 2006-07-26
I have the exact same machine as you and I had the exact same problem. You can use the> sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.confcommand to edit your configuration file. My xorg.conf file should work for you, just paste it into your xorg.conf file. Here it is:> 
#HAHAHAHAHAH -Skye
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
EndSection

Section "Module"
#	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
#	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
#	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"speedo"
	Load	"type1"
#	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xfree86"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"macintosh"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:0:16:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"iMac"
	HorizSync	30-112
	VertRefresh	50-160
	Option		"DPMS"
	ModeLine	"1280x960" 122.25 1280 1344 1440 1696 960 965 968 1002 +hsync +vsync -csync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Monitor		"iMac"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x960"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x960"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x960"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x960"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x960"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x960"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


---

### Post by 61_revisited on 2006-07-26
> **Ziox said:**
> when you typed in that command :/etc/X11/xorg.conf, did you captilize the 'X' in "X11"? because that would be a difference dir. to ubuntu.  make sure that X is capitalized.


No I wasn't capitalizing, I tried it this morning before work and I was able to access it.  Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by 61_revisited on 2006-07-26
> **Skia_42 said:**
> I have the exact same machine as you and I had the exact same problem. You can use thecommand to edit your configuration file. My xorg.conf file should work for you, just paste it into your xorg.conf file. Here it is:



Next stupid question, how can I copy and paste this since I'll have to reboot the machine? 

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by 61_revisited on 2006-07-26
I just manually edited the display information and it worked like a charm.  No problems at all.

This GUI seems a lot nicer than the GNOME environment in Yellow Dog at least at first impressions.  I'm going to try Kubunu as well since that's also installed on my system.

---

