---
title: "5.04 live cd issues"
date: 2008-02-01
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by Rianthebear on 2008-02-01
i know im gonna sound like a total idiot on here but here goes anyway.

i have been running a apple ibook g4 1.33ghz ppc processor with 256 megs of ram, 60gb hdd, cd-rw/dvd-rom.  its been running fine for the last 4 years but im tired of my mac os 10.3.9 so today i decided to download ubuntu 5.04 live cd.  i open the image and burn it using roxio toast 6 titanium. i just cant figure out how to get the cd to boot. ive restarted over 20 times trying different things but nothing has worked.  the boot manager for os 10.3 isnt great it wont let me select the cd drive to boot  from. i dont know if i have messed up the cd or im just stupid and are missing something right infront of my face.

any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Twiggy003 on 2008-02-01
Is using 5.04 necessary? 6.06.1, 7.04 and 7.10 work on PPC, Im not sure if 5.04 is supported any more.  Holding down the C key on boot makes it boot from CD.  I have however have had issues trying to use the LiveCD and I do believe others have also.

Your best bet is to download the 6.06 LTS or 7.10 Alternative Install .iso, burn it to CD, restart your mac, hold down C then boot into an installation procedure.  It would probably also be a good idea to back up all vital data before doing so.

I hope that's helped.

---

### Post by tehet on 2008-02-01
I don't know how the boot manager/BIOS/other works on a Mac but booting from CD is required obviously. Also, the downloaded CD image should be burnt as a bootable disk, not as data CD or anything else. Perhaps that's your issue, but I don't know a lot about Macs.

More importantly, the 5.04 (April 2005) version is no longer supported. This means that it won't get critical updates that are essential for security. You do not want this version.

In addition, on the most recent versions the PPC architecture is no longer supported at all.

The most recent version for PPC is 6.06.2 and will get security fixes until June 2009. It comes in 32bit PC, 64bit PC and Mac PPC version. Offcourse you'll need the Mac PPC version.
[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors)
Hope that helps.

edit: Twiggy is right. The alternate versions still support PPC. My bad.

---

### Post by hananias on 2008-02-01
i have a ibookg4 1.33ghz/1.25g.ram/atisomething...anyways, maybe the same machine.  i tried installing 7.10 alternative cd...it was very buggy.  7.04 FEISTY ran great, even with beryl and compiz...so i just upgraded from there to GUTSY and that worked ok.  everything works fine for now.  to my surprise even compiz-fusion works smooth.  the thing i'm still trying to get to work is the video plug-in for mozilla...or is there another brower i can use that is easy and able to use a plug-in...anybody, please.

---

### Post by Twiggy003 on 2008-02-08
By video plugin do you mean flash or something that plays .movs .avi etc?  for flash, there's no PPC Adobe flash, but Gnash exists, which can play youtube videos well enough.  As for other videos, there's probably an mplayer-mozilla plugin somewhere on your synaptic manager.

---

