---
title: "5.10 vs 6.06 -- boot issues"
date: 2006-06-07
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by swartzfeger on 2006-06-07
All,

For anyone else having install issues with 6.06 on their Mac, did you also previously install 5.10? If so, did it give you the same problems?

I'm downloading the 5.10 install ISO, and I'm tempted to give it a shot tonight if I still have problems with 6.06 tonight.

---

### Post by conanlib on 2006-06-07
Yes, I am running 5.10 right now, installed without a hitch.  6.06 for the mac is a mess, won't boot on my g3 iMac.  I have tried all 3 dl's and none boot.  I really hope they get it fixed soon.  I am a real noob as far as any Linux experiance, but have kicked around the PC world for many years and am considered a local guru.  Good luck with 5.10, it is super!

Gary Carson aka Conan the Librarian

---

### Post by bunny on 2006-06-09
I found this too on an old G3 iMac. It should be fixed in next kernel upgrade.

[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/34508](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/34508)

In meantime stick to 5.10 which does work.
I was pleasently surprised the internal modem works.
The place where this iMac is at only has dial up. 

I was looking forward to trying with light xcfe desktop that makes [xubuntu]("http://xubuntu.org"). It does not work to do
```
sudo apt-cdrom add 
```
for the xubuntu 6.06 alternative cdrom and then in terminal do:
```
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop
```
without first upgrading updating rest of distro but that would replace kernel with one that breaks.

---

### Post by heffo_j on 2006-06-09
I have a 'blue' G3 iMac. It was running Breezy quite well but I took the bait and went for Dapper. It just wouldn't work. (I had trouble getting Dapper to work on my i386 laptop as well but I was able to fix that). I have a 5.04 Hoary CD and did a fresh install which required a wiping of the HD!! Got Hoary going and then did an upgrade to Breezy using Synaptic (took hours) and now I'm lurking on the Ubunut site to see when the 'all clear' is given to the kernel problem. I had a similar problem when I was with Fedora and upgraded. It wouldn't work. 
Lesson 1: Don't hurriedly upgrade with the latest version; sit back and wait for a month after the release and let the gurus sort out the mess. 
Lesson 2: Learn Lesson 1 off by heart because I weaked and paid the price.
Lesson 3: See Lesson 1.

My $0.02 worth.

John

---

### Post by bunny on 2006-06-14
After seeing a misleading message in response to bug that made me believe the kernel had been updated in online repositores I tried to upgrade via graphical update method as described at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperUpgrades](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperUpgrades)
and it replaced with broken kernel that won't boot and drops to firmware prompt on my bondi blue G3 iMac (1999) which was running breezy very well.

So I guess the new kernel is not yet there for that method and people should still hold off (on certain macs at least). Would it have worked if changed repositories to something else and used command line?

How can we track when new kernel arrives in the repositories so that online upgrade will go ok.

It is still possible to get it to boot using old kernel, by typing 'old' at yaboot prompt. tab gives kernel list.

I think there may be a way also boot from old kernel from the mac firmware, which maybe is modification of way mentioned in docs on cdrom to boot from a kernel that has been transfer to a old mac install. Or can firmware only see mac partitions?

I will wait for new kernel in updates to get sound and usb back working and not having to catch yaboot which has short default boot prompt

cheers,

Micah
[http://j12.org/sb/](http://j12.org/sb/)

-- 2.6.15 kernel fails to boot on PPC machine [https://launchpad.net/bugs/34508](https://launchpad.net/bugs/34508)

---

