---
title: "iBook Graphics Install  Problem"
date: 2005-04-16
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by joebolte on 2005-04-16
I am having a problem getting any graphics to display on my iBook. I have searched the forum for a possible solution and run dpkg-reconfigure on the xserver, but it simply asked me some questions and brought me back to the same problem.

iBook 800 Dual USB
ATi Radeon Mobility 7500

Booting from the install CD - The default boot process brings up a the left side of the dialog window in the upper left corner. There is another image of it in the lower left corner. Booting with the video=ofonly parameter fixes this problem. The install procedure goes noramlly from this point. I eject the cd and restart. Boot stage 2 takes over and starts installing packages like crazy. When I come back from a sandwich, the screen has 1-5 thin horizontal lines and a background which brightens and eventually dims. When it's bright it looks like a picture of stars and gas clouds. No keys do anything at this point, except for apple-ctrl-power to hard restart. The restart brings the same result, shortly after the text mode report indicates that GDM and CUPS have loaded. 

It seems pretty clear to me that it's a graphics problem, since all the text stuff works fine. I can boot fine in single-user mode using "Linux 1" at the yaboot prompt. The /etc/X11/xorg.conf file lists the card as a Radeon 9000, which is incorrect. Can someone who has a working hoary install and a Radeon 7500 post the contents of their xorg.conf? It would be especially helpful if you have an iBook.

Thanks,
Joe

---

### Post by farruinn on 2005-04-28
This sounds like something that happened to me recently in OS X.  There is a problem with some iBook logic boards, fortunately Apple is replacing them so mine is going in for repair: [http://www.apple.com/support/ibook/faq/](http://www.apple.com/support/ibook/faq/).  If it's not been three years since you purchased it you can still have the logic board replaced.

Good luck!  :-?

---

### Post by joebolte on 2005-04-28
Hi Nathan,
Thanks very much for your reply. I had the iBook logic board problem previously and sent it to Apple for repair.  The computer came back fine, and I haven't had a video/graphics problem until the installation one above.  Do you think this is some kind of latent problem that was not repaired and not apparent until installing linux? 

Thanks again,
Joe

---

### Post by farruinn on 2005-04-28
[QUOTE=joebolte]Hi Nathan,
Thanks very much for your reply. I had the iBook logic board problem previously and sent it to Apple for repair.  The computer came back fine, and I haven't had a video/graphics problem until the installation one above.  Do you think this is some kind of latent problem that was not repaired and not apparent until installing linux? 

Thanks again,
Joe[/QUOTE]
 This *shouldn't* be caused by a hardware issue if you've already had it replaced.  Is it possible for you to post your xorg.conf here?

---

### Post by joebolte on 2005-04-30
I have tried editing xorg.conf according to the suggestions of some other posts, but nothing even changed the problem.  After running dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and choosing all the default responses, I get the enclosed file. Clearly there is a problem, since it identifies my video card as a Radeon 9000, but my card is a Radeon 7500. Specs for my computer are available [here](http://apple-history.com/frames/body.php?page=gallery&model=ibook_late_2002).

xorg.conf

```

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:0:16:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```

---

### Post by farruinn on 2005-05-01
I've never installed Ubuntu on a laptop or anything else that uses an LCD screen, but wouldn't you still need HorizSync and VertRefresh rates in your "Monitor" section?  I dont' know if these are applicable to an LCD and if they are I don't know what appropriate numbers would be, but it might be worth it to add those two things to the Monitor section.

---

### Post by Bug on 2005-05-06
You need those refresh rates, I think they're listed on the product spec pages.

Bug

---

### Post by funkyade on 2006-03-27
hi folks,

I'm having a similar problem with a dual-usb ibook (500). I can get X to run fine if I use the fbdev driver, however, when using the ati wrapper driver "ati" I get the corrupted screen mentioned above.

Very strange as it was working fine on the last install I did on this machine (Breezy), but after reinstalling using the following scheme, server->xubuntu-desktop, it goes crazy. Am I missing something in my kernel (2.6.15)?

I'm going to try the refresh rate suggestion and will post back if I get anywhere with it.

ttfn

funkyade

---

### Post by funkyade on 2006-03-28
just an update on trying to get my ATI RageM3 iBook working.

Have tried quite a few things which have led nowhere useful.

Adding a specific refresh rate (in xorg.conf) did not make any difference, nor did adding a line to my yaboot.conf (video=aty128fb:vmode:6).

Am still using the fbdev driver which is the only thing that works at the moment. I wouldn't have thought that even if you specifically enable "Accel" in xorg.conf that it is accelerated at all.

Any more suggestions gratefully received.

---

### Post by joebolte on 2006-03-30
Hey funkyade,

Glad to hear that someone else can at least confirm the problem I was having. For what it's worth, when I upgraded to Breezy from Hoary,, and rean dpkg-reconfigure xorg-xserver, everything came off without a hitch. I don't know if you're interested in re-installing to do some regression testing, but I am pretty stumped about the cause of this problem.

---

### Post by sean on 2006-04-19
I have the exact same problem.

   iBook (Dual USB) G3 (500MHz) w/ ATI Rage M3 video.

The video driver does not work at all.

Sean

---

### Post by CMOTDibbler on 2006-05-02
Same problem on dapper 6.06 beta 2 live on a dual-usb ibook g3 500Mhz.(tested with different flight...)
The login screen is garbled ad shows only in the upper left quarter of the lcd..(duplicated on the bottom right quarter)
the rest of the screen is completely black with one gray stripe in the middle.

---

### Post by farruinn on 2006-05-11
Did you try running 'dpkg-reconfigure xorg-xserver'? Apparently joebolt had luck with that.

---

### Post by meganpegan81 on 2006-10-16
This sounds like something that happened to me recently in OS X. There is a problem with some iBook logic boards, fortunately Apple is replacing them so mine is going in for repair: [http://www.apple.com/support/ibook/faq/](http://www.apple.com/support/ibook/faq/). If it's not been three years since you purchased it you can still have the logic board replaced
Is this true what you said about replacing the logic board.My ibook is not even a year old and it is haveing problems with its logic board

---

### Post by funkyade on 2006-10-24
Just for the record, you need to set the screen depth in xorg.conf to 16bit not 24bit and then everything works...

Installed Gentoo on my other iBook and managed to get everything working... (Gentoo seems better for these older iBooks imho).

---

