---
title: "7.04 Ramdisk Load Failure"
date: 2007-05-12
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by Rineva on 2007-05-12
I recently installed Ubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn on my blue/white PowerMac G3 400. At present, it's the only OS on the system. Today when I powered it up, it started up with the following...

boot:
Please wait, loading kernel...
Elf32 kernal loaded...
Loading ramdisk...
ramdisk load failed!

And proceeded to display some Apple BootROM/OpenFirmware info (which does nothing, since Mac OS is not installed). I cannot get Ubuntu to boot nor do I have an idea as to what might have caused this. I have the Ubuntu CD, but I don't want to risk completely reformatting and having to reinstall everything.

I'm relatively new to Ubuntu and Linux in general. Any input with break-downs is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by rondackcpu on 2007-05-13
Welcome, Rineva:  I'm just a newbie, too, but I have gotten Ubuntu to run on an even older iMac than yours.  Some more information might help with clues to follow:

Did it ever boot from scratch, or was this the first time Ubuntu booted after installation?

What was the Apple operating system you were running just before the installation?  A long time ago (years) I upgraded my G3 from OS 8.5 which came with it to OS 9.1.  At that time I was lead through a process to upgrade the OpenFramework of the system.  It may be that you need to have this upgrade if you are coming from one of the older OS 8 systems.

Good luck.

CRS

---

### Post by Rineva on 2007-05-13
Thanks. It booted from scratch every time after I installed it on Thursday (it's a loud machine, I shut it down at night). Prior to this it had been running OS X Server 10.4, which was the only other operating system I've used on it.

Well, I went ahead and reinstalled Ubuntu and was fortunately able to get to and import my data to the new partition/installation, but all my settings and apps were lost. I'd like to avoid having to do that again.

---

