---
title: "7.04 G4 12&quot; Wifi Problem"
date: 2007-06-01
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by rik_elliott on 2007-06-01
Hello,

I've been having an intermittent problem using wireless networks on my 12" ibook. I have installed the firmware cutter etc, and have sucessfully connected to networks with internet access in the past, with no real problems (once connected).

The problems seem to arise when I try and first connect to a network, or reconnect following waking the system. I can see all the AP's in my area along with signal strengths in network manager, but I have to try over and over to get the system to connect to a network (it doesnt matter if its open or encrypted) and quite often when it does connect, I have no access to the internet. Its as if the system isnt really connected at all, as nothing that uses the connection works.

Annoyingly, sometimes it works absolutely perfectly without me altering any settings, only to be back like this next time I try and use it.

I have tried most of the tips and tricks mentioned on this forum (I dont post unless a good search doesnt help!) , and I'm about ready to ditch linux and go back to osx, which would be a real shame as I do like feisty. Its just not a lot of good to me if I cant rely on it to be able to connect to the net!

Thanks in advance for any help
Rik

---

### Post by reh4c on 2007-06-01
Hello.  I've experienced many of the same issues...not so much with my iBook, but with my HP dv2000z.  The HP "sees" many networks, but can't connect to my own or any other.  However, my iBook G4 has been fairly reliable.  I've used it primarily on my own network, so I can't comment much on roaming.  It's a damn shame that Broadcom won't open source drivers for the cards.  I'm going to stick with Ubuntu on my iBook.  Overall, it's solid.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-06-01
What type of network? WEP, WPA? Depending on your router settings, some things may be problematic with the broadcom driver. It has been flakey on connecting to some WEP and WPA networks.

---

### Post by rik_elliott on 2007-06-02
the problem seems to occur on any sort of network (unsecured, wpa, wep), and on pretty well every network i've tried it on.

 Its so irritating to see the list of networks / have the ibook think its connected to the network, but then not having any access. I have noticed that the problem has become continuous lately rather than intermittent, but i think thats due to me installing mol along with its ppp stuff - will remove the mol networking gubbins and see if it gets me back to how it was before.

Other than this, I'm really enjoying feisty and will probably put it on my desktop pc when i get the chance.

---

### Post by tcrroadie on 2007-06-02
Are you trying to connect to wireless B enabled networks.  Wireless G is VERY problematic when using Linux PPC.  Wireless B works flawlessly on my ibook.  Make sure the network you are connecting to is set to mixed.  

You can also see this post I wrote earlier regarding wireless B&G networks. 

[Airport Extreme Connection, iBook G4...please help!]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2731020#post2731020")

You may also need to edit /etc/network/interfaces to automatically bring up your wireless network card. 

The end of mine looks like this.  eth1 is my Airport Extreme card.
```

iface eth1 inet dhcp 
wireless-essid Homer
wireless-key my key here

auto eth1
```

Hope this helps.  Glad to here you are enjoying Feisty on your ibook.

---

### Post by johne on 2007-06-05
ive been experiencing wireless issues as well, but this was after installing beryl. now if i change my window manager back to gnome. my wireless is shakey at best. it will connect and then die off. but if i change my window manager back to beryl - my wireless works flawlessly.

---

### Post by tcrroadie on 2007-06-05
Hi Johne, 

What machine are you using?  The ibook I own is this model.  

[ibook G4 12"]("http://www.apple-history.com/?page=gallery&model=ibook_g4_mid_05&performa=off&sort=family&order=ASC")

Wireless on my ibook works flawlessly with Beryl enabled.  Beryl is so stable on my ibook,  that I actually keep it on all the time, except when I need to play videos.  The only thing that will deminish my wireless signal is when my wife is using our cordless 2.4Ghz cordless phone. 

You may just be getting some radio interference.  You may want to try changing the channel on your wireless router/access point.

---

### Post by rik_elliott on 2007-06-05
Well, it seems that removing the mol networking stuff and switching my router to wep instead of wpa has left me with  (so far) totally reliable networking.

Thanks for your help! Its very reassuring to know that good community help is here for us linux beginners.

---

### Post by johne on 2007-06-05
> **tcrroadie said:**
> Hi Johne, 

What machine are you using?  The ibook I own is this model.  

[ibook G4 12"]("http://www.apple-history.com/?page=gallery&model=ibook_g4_mid_05&performa=off&sort=family&order=ASC")

Wireless on my ibook works flawlessly with Beryl enabled.  Beryl is so stable on my ibook,  that I actually keep it on all the time, except when I need to play videos.  The only thing that will deminish my wireless signal is when my wife is using our cordless 2.4Ghz cordless phone. 

You may just be getting some radio interference.  You may want to try changing the channel on your wireless router/access point.

That is the same ibook i own, the issue isnt Beryl. the issue is when i change the window manager to anything other than Beryl.

---

