---
title: "6.06 or 6.10 + G4 as LAMP server?"
date: 2007-01-19
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by jorgepease on 2007-01-19
I am new to Linux. I have an old G4 DP 450 upgraded to dual 1.4 (Gigabit Ethernet) machine which I want to retire from use as a graphics machine and make it into a web server. I'm presently running OS X.

I like what I have read about Ubuntu especially this:
> In about 15 minutes, the time it takes to install Ubuntu Server Edition, you can have a LAMP server up and ready to go. This feature, exclusive to Ubuntu Server Edition, is available at the time of installation.

So how do I download the > Server Edition I only see downloads for 6.06 or 6.10 and no further mention of Server Edition.

Thanks for your replies :D


**[COLOR="Red"]Never Mind .... I found it, thanks for looking[/COLOR]**

Also, in trying to download from my Mac using any of the mirrors I was faced with under 20kbps download ?? I have a full T1 connection. When I tried to download using a Windows machine I Have 150 KB throughput . Just in case anyone else is having the same problem.

---

### Post by edward4130 on 2007-01-19
Can you let us know how it turns out, I have that same machine DP450 G4 gigabit . and i'm wondering what to retask the machine as.  

_Edward

---

### Post by jorgepease on 2007-01-19
> Can you let us know how it turns out, I have that same machine DP450 G4 gigabit . and i'm wondering what to retask the machine as.

Edward, 

I just burned the CD. I will try it out this weekend and report back. I used my machine for graphics but reached the end of the line when I could not run applications important to me like Aperture.

I think it will be superb as a web server though.

have a good weekend.

Jorge

---

### Post by jorgepease on 2007-01-19
Well I guess this was the wrong thing to do. 

I booted up from the iso burn but did not get a gui like in the pictures nor did I find any options for LAMP. 

What I did manage to do was to erase my disc in the partition process. No way back from that, too bad they didnt tell me warn me before the fact that I was missing something in my NewWorld setup.

Cant reinstall OS X , cant even see the hard drive.

---

### Post by ssam on 2007-01-20
> **jorgepease said:**
> Cant reinstall OS X , cant even see the hard drive.

when you start the mac os installer there is a disk utility in one of the menus.

as for installing a lamp server. if you are not familiar with the command line then you can do a normal ubuntu install and add the lamp packages see 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP)

---

### Post by jorgepease on 2007-01-20
Hi, 

I did get the system back up, I had to install to an external drive first then use the disc utility from there. 

When I boot from the iso burn i get a command prompt screen. I typed install and hit enter which brought up a series of menus ie: What Language, Check for Keyboard and so on. I did not see any option for selecting the default LAMP install.

I downloaded the 6.10 Server Edition. At what point in time are you presented with the option to instal LAMP because when I got to the point were you set up partitions, I made the mistake of selecting the device, my main disc and I was later told that in NewWord Macs I needed to keep certain items so blah blah blah could do a BootStrap or something of that order.

The install instructions I could find all show a different looking initial screen.

Also, I wonder if anyone can comment on the sticky above referring to DP Macs. Mine is the G4 Gigabit Ethernet model and I am not interested in losing my double processors if Ubuntu does not support it.

Thanks

---

### Post by gilgam on 2007-01-21
i have a websrever on a dual 400 MHz G4 and it works fine. Just have to install a smp kernel, and performance & stability is au rendezvous  ;-)

You can use server disk but i did use standard install and customized it after.

---

### Post by jorgepease on 2007-01-22
Hi, I am a bit short on time these days, the 15 min LAMP install would have been great. Can somebody tell me where I find this option. I don't see it in the install directions either.

---

