---
title: "PowerMac G5 boot issues"
date: 2007-04-29
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by Overneath42 on 2007-04-29
I recently installed Feisty on a PowerMac G5 1.6 SP. Curiously, I initially had trouble booting from the CD, but it eventually worked and I was able to (as far as I know) install successfully. The problem starts when I try to boot from the hard drive -- since I wiped the drive, I am immediately taken to the boot screen where I am asked to select from Linux (press 'l') or boot from CD (press 'c'). When I select 'l', though, I get a flashing icon in the center that alternates between the Mac Finder icon and a question mark. I recognize that this is the display that Apple computers typically throw up when OS X is borked. The icon appears in a small grey square that appears in the center of the screen with the Linux boot menu still visible. I can't get past this point. I searched the forums and didn't see anyone with a similar problem.

Help please? Thanks!

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-04-30
This sounds like yaboot did not write correctly to the boot partition at the end of the installation. This is somewhat of a critical error, I'm afraid. If there is no critical data to recover, I'd suggest reinstalling Feisty with the alternative ppc CD. Good luck!

---

### Post by bdsheph on 2007-05-04
Im having the same technical difficulties, i try to boot and it goes directly to the grey screen with the flashing icon. Funny thing is i dont have the discs with me to fix anything. It's acting like it can't pick up any drives. :(  Any suggestions to enter a setup screen or anything to fix this pos?

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-04
I can help you. When I installed Feisty from a beta on my Powermac G5 the installer failed to install yaboot. I had to manually create a yaboot.conf file, and write that to the boot partition. I think the same thing is happening to you.

I'm at work, but when I get home I will copy and paste my yaboot.conf here, along with step by step instructions on how to fix this. You'll have to boot with the alternative CD, then run the installer. When the installer ends (before rebooting) you'll have to switch to another terminal and create the file /etc/yaboot.conf. Then run the command 
$ sudo ybin -v

to write that config to the boot partition.

Are you dual booting? I think this bug occurs when installing feisty and doing a manual partition scheme from the installer.

[Note: This is somewhat of a critical bug, I'm afraid. For now it is somewhat impossible to boot your machine as is, I'm afraid. You can try booting and holding down the Alt key. That will perhaps come to a menu where you can choose OS X (or possible Ubuntu?)]

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-04
Okay there's a program yabootconf that I think is included by default. So running that will set up everything and you will be all fixed.

So after the ubuntu install, BEFORE rebooting, press Ctrl-Alt-F1 (or F2) to get to a terminal, and type

$ sudo yabootconfig

That should fix everything. Then reboot.

Here is my /etc/yaboot.conf if that helps. You can alternatively just create this file and then run
$ sudo ybin -v

to write this to the boot partition. Though be careful, as everyone's yaboot.conf is slightly different, depending on your partitions. (And I have mine booting my own kernel image- and not an official ubuntu image.) So anyways, here it is, if this helps:


```
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda2
device=/ht@0,f2000000/pci@5/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0:
partition=3
root=/dev/sda3
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
enableofboot
enablenetboot
macosx=/dev/sda5
defaultos=macosx

fgcolor=black
bgcolor=white

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/vmlinux
#	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
	label=old
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
#	initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
	append="quiet splash"

```

---

