---
title: "Unable to read /boot/vmlinux"
date: 2006-06-03
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by thewogg on 2006-06-03
I've installed 6.06 PPC on my Imac G3 233 using the alternate install disk.  The install worked fine.  I did have to adjust the yaboot.conf to get the macos option.

When I select l for linux and then press enter for the default boot image I receive:

hd:7,/boot/vmlinux Input/output error

Yaboot.conf:

boot=/dev/hda6
device=hd:
root=/dev/hda7
timeout=50
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicgoot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macos=/dev/hda5
delay=15

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=linux
	partition=7
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="quiet splash"

Disk partitions:

/dev/hda1	Apple partition map
/dev/hda2	Apple Driver ATA					32K
/dev/hda3	Apple Drive ATA						32K
/dev/hda4	Apple Patches Patch Partition				32K
/dev/hda5	Apple HFS MacOS	HFS				256K
/dev/hda6	Apple Bootstrap		NewWorld Bootblock		6 Gig
/dev/hda7	Apple Unix SVR2	/				21 Gig
/dev/hda8	Apple Unix SVR2	swap				730 Meg

/boot/vmlinux is a sym link to vmlinux-2.6.15-23-powerpc

Please help.  I'd really like to get Ubuntu running on my Mac.

Thanks,
thewogg

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2006-06-03
Just a question--did you do a   sudo ybin -v  (in the terminal) after your edit?

Also--My yaboot.conf looks like---

## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda2
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:
partition=4
root=/dev/hda4
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
fgcolor=green
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/hdb4

image=/boot/vmlinux
    label=Dapper
    read-only
    initrd=/boot/initrd.img
    append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
    label=dapperold
    read-only
    initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
    append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux-2.6.15-22-powerpc
    label=dappersingle
    read-only
    initrd=/boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-22-powerpc
    append="quiet splash"

# This entry automatically added by the Ubuntu installer for an existing
# Linux installation on /dev/hdb5.
image=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@1:5,/boot/vmlinux
    label=Breezy
    root=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@1:5
    append="root=/dev/hdb5 ro quiet splash"
    initrd=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@1:5,/boot/initrd.img

# This entry automatically added by the Ubuntu installer for an existing
# Linux installation on /dev/hdb5.
image=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@1:5,/boot/vmlinux.old
    label=oldbreezy
    root=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@1:5
    append="root=/dev/hdb5 ro quiet splash"
    initrd=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@1:5,/boot/initrd.img.old

I think it is not "seeing" the device

---

### Post by thewogg on 2006-06-03
[QUOTE=autocrosser]Just a question--did you do a   sudo ybin -v  (in the terminal) after your edit?[/QUOTE]

I used the rescue cd  to get to a shell, did the edit, and then used the re-install boot loader option of the rescue.  I'm assumig that it did a ybin to install the new config.

I did change the device= line from the full /pci/... to hd: and it did come up with the change after following the procedure above.

---

### Post by thewogg on 2006-06-03
[QUOTE=autocrosser]I think it is not "seeing" the device[/QUOTE]

I changed the device line because the device that ubuntu had put in the config  did not match the device alias for hd at the Open Firmware level.

It was still getting the same error when the device line was set to:

pci/mac-io/ide@2000/disk@0:

Thanks for the examples!  I'll try again some more.

---

