---
title: "6.10: Hardware overheat shutdown on dual G5 PowerMac (2.7GHz)"
date: 2006-10-28
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by deplinenoise on 2006-10-28
I tried installing 6.10 today on my dual PowerMac G5 (the 2.7GHz version).

Besides a nitpick about it not setting up yaboot correctly when I installed to a second harddrive, things seemed to work fine.

However when I put some real load on the machine (compiling for an few minutes) and the fans rev'd up the machine just went south and powered down. I think it's the hardware overheat protection stepping in and killing power to the box to avoid damage, but I could be wrong.

Has anyone else seen this?

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-28
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284508](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284508)

Did you do the fix to get thermal working correctly?

---

### Post by deplinenoise on 2006-10-28
> **stmiller said:**
> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284508](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284508)

Did you do the fix to get thermal working correctly?

No, I didn't think that applied to me because the fans sound much as they do in OS X, that is, they're not spinning up to maximum speed.

Do you think those modules would help in this scenario?

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-28
What is the output of lsmod?

Best to make sure those thermal modules are loading correctly just in case.

And do you have powernowd installed?

---

### Post by deplinenoise on 2006-10-28
I'm sorry, but I've wiped the Ubuntu install in favor of a Fedora Core 6 install since I saw the problem.

Interestingly FC6 has the same problem (it even seems worse). It also whines to the console about the CPU being overheated, saying it exceeds 88 degrees (I've seen values up to 93). It then shuts down.

The one difference I can see is that the FC6 kernel doesn't say anything in dmesg about liquid cooling being detected, while the Ubuntu 6.10 kernel does.

I'm at a loss here; would it make sense to try reinstalling Ubuntu and trying to load the modules? From what I understand the G5 fan/cooling drivers are compiled in already because the fans behave as expected. It's only the overheat shutdown that's unexpected :-)

---

### Post by Torrance on 2006-10-28
I don't think loading the modules will help - they certainly already sound as though they are loading. FC6 also seems to have confirmed the issue as being about overheating. IMHO, I'd file a bug and stay away from Linux as you may be doing damage to your hardware. :-#

There must surely be reports elsewhere of this happening? Sounds quite serious!

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-29
Might try gentoo, though I know that distro is not everyone's cup of tea. In their forums persons have spoken of great success with the liquid-cooled dual-core G5 machines, with no tweaking. (Of course you just have to go through the long gentoo install process...)

---

### Post by deplinenoise on 2006-10-29
I don't think its worth the trouble to install Gentoo at this point, but thanks for the suggestion. I imagine Ubuntu and other distros will pick up whatever fixes were made pretty soon.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-10-30
> **deplinenoise said:**
> No, I didn't think that applied to me because the fans sound much as they do in OS X, that is, they're not spinning up to maximum speed.

Do you think those modules would help in this scenario?

They did for my 20" G5 Rev-A iMac.

I knew the fans would go bananas until I got the sytem installed.

Upon reboot, things were nice and quiet - THEN they roared off again after a few minutes.  I applied the terminal commands referenced in the thread above to manually install the module, and bingo - fans under control.  

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284508](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284508)

I added the cpu frequency scaling applet to the top bar and watch it change from 900 to 1.8 ghz nicely.  After 3 days no heat-related problems so far.  Then again I'm not really straining the iMac.

I'm keeping a close eye on it, but so far so good.

In addition to the frequency scaling applet, I just installed the Gnome "sensor-applet" (universe repository) to monitor the fan and cpu temp.  At idle, the system fans are running at 1500rpm, and the cpu temp is 52 C.  I do see the fan rpm increase when I put a little load on it.

---

