---
title: "[help]loading screen"
date: 2007-07-15
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by gtcoffee on 2007-07-15
Hi all....

i just installed the Feisty on my powerbook g4 12...
 i got the crappy loading screen like this...can it be fix ??

[IMG]http://www.freewebs.com/eookoo/loading.JPG[/IMG]

Thanks in advance !!

---

### Post by 0graham0 on 2007-07-16
Just wondering if there is any message along the lines of "PCI: Cannot allocate resource region X of device XXXX:XX" before the splash screen pops up?

---

### Post by gtcoffee on 2007-07-17
yeah...i got 2 messages like this b4 the loading screen...  :(
wt r these messages mean ??

"PCI: Cannot allocate resource region X of device XXXX:XX" 
"PCI: Cannot allocate resource region X of device XXXX:XX" 

btw, thx for reply!

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-07-17
Can you post your /etc/yaboot.conf  ?

---

### Post by gtcoffee on 2007-07-17
Here is my /etc/yaboot.conf

```
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda2
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:
partition=4
root=/dev/hda4
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/hda3

image=/boot/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
        label=old
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
        append="quiet splash"

```

---

### Post by 0graham0 on 2007-07-17
I haven't had any success, but I have the same messed up bootsplash, with the PCI error. Perhaps its somehow related to the kernel? I don't know if the two problems are related though...

Here's what I've done to make myself feel better without actually fixing the problem...I ended up editing the yaboot configuration for a less annoying boot... open terminal and enter
 ```
sudo gedit /etc/yaboot.conf
```
In yaboot.conf  remove the word "quiet" from the lines that read "append="quiet splash"", if you want the splash image to come up along with boot messages, or get rid of the whole thing, then save the document. Return to the terminal and enter ```
sudo ybin
``` 

I know, its kind of a bogus band-aid, but its been less annoying while  I've kept poking around for a real solution...do you think you can post the exact PCI: error, I'll let you know which error I get...p.s. I'm using a Powerbook G4 Titanium 17" with a partition for OS X and a partition for Linux, yourself?

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-07-17
I found a past bug report here, which didn't say much:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usplash/+bug/21478](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usplash/+bug/21478)

But try this:

Add this line to the Devices section of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Option          "NvAGP"         "1"

```

And try these options to the append line of your /etc/yaboot.conf: (These are nvidia specific)

First this one:
```

append="video=nvidiafb quiet splash"

```
If that doesn't work, try this one:
```

append="video=rivafb quiet splash"

```

Remember you have to run 

$ sudo ybin -v

after editing and saving /etc/yaboot.conf

(These are the possible video= options. 'ofonly' is the default failsafe. nvidiafb, radeonfb, rivafb, atyfb, aty128, ofonly.)

---

### Post by gtcoffee on 2007-07-17
Although it didn't work, but still thx alot..
so i decided to use wt 0graham0 given,
loading text mode make me feel better.. :)  

btw  thx u guys again...

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-07-17
Oh well. :(

---

### Post by 0graham0 on 2007-07-17
I'll try that too stmiller...I'm still interested in seeing if anyone has fixed this problem, or figured out how to load a custom bootsplash in Ubuntu on PPC. I know it seems possible on other platforms that support Grub as a bootloader, but I dunno with yaboot?

glad the loading text brings some sort of sanity...

---

