---
title: "xserver-xorg freezes G4 mac mini (feisty and gutsy)"
date: 2007-09-18
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by salamandra on 2007-09-18
Hi
I seem to be running into an issue with xserver-xorg (>7.2) and my G4 mac mini.
To make a long story short, I've finally been able to get ubuntu-server (gutsy) running properly.

I then installed xserver-xorg, but that's as far as I get. Running startx completely freezes my system (screen goes blank, monitor standby LED turns on, unresponsive to Ctrl+Alt+1-6).

I've had a look at Xorg.0.log, but can't make much of it, besides apparently minor issues with fonts, framebuffer device and aiglx. (reduced version attached).

I'm using an xorg.conf file generated by "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" (plus paths to fonts in files section).

Edgy works fine on the same box. (also tried copying-pasting the edgy xorg.conf into gutsy to no avail). I've also tried with Debian testing and feisty, btw. At one point or another (soon after boot or after manually invoking X), the same freeze-up occured.

Is there somewhere else I should be looking?

Thanks!

Cheers

Hugo

---

### Post by frog_pilot on 2007-09-19
Your xorg.0.log shows different errors with your video-hardware and drivers.

First I would recommend using the free "ati" or "radeon" driver to try what the matter with your xserver is.
In feisty there was a major update of the free ati-drivers. Now it trys to handle the ati-cards by default as x86 hardware. To tell the driver not to do this, you have to add the line```
Option              "NoInt10"                  "yes"
```to the Device-Section of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf like this:
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon RV250 If [Radeon 9000 Pro]"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:0:16:0"
	Option		"NoInt10"		"yes"
```If this works for you, try to integrate your aiglx-driver.

---

### Post by salamandra on 2007-09-19
Thanks!

Same result, though.
The Xorg.0.log file is ever so slightly different:

**Disappeared:**
      section in which it attempted to load fbdevhw

**New:**
      radeon module gets invoked one more time when using radeon instead of ati as driver. w/o EE or WW lines
      (WW) RADEON(0): Option "NoInt10" is not used


Everything else is exactly the same!!

I'm wondering whether the X log is the place to look. Whenever I've had X freezes on x86 systems before, it didn't block up the whole system, I was always able to go tty

Any ideas?

Cheers

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-09-19
What is your xorg.conf?

Try putting this in the Devices section: 
```

Option UseFBDev "false"

```

and comment out any 'load dri' parts for now. Once you get a stable X going, then add in the dri and go from there.

frog_pilot: on PowerPC we only have the free ati/radeon xorg drivers. There are no other drivers available (so far).

---

### Post by salamandra on 2007-09-19
OK, this is getting weird.

I just tried something wild...
Installed gutsy (alternate cd, expert video=ofonly)... using a different monitor and got a working gnome desktop!

Let me explain: the OP refers to a G4 mac mini with an Apple 20" cinema display. So I plugged in a Dell 21" 4:3 monitor and used that... other than a showstopper during installation of additional packages (not the base system), and having to turn off what I take to be beryl/compiz effects, IT WORKS!!!

[Funnily enough, I see no splash screen or tty messages during boot (blank screen, but monitor not on standby) and the tty won't display (monitor message saying unable to display in that mode ¿?). But I *can *use the ttys blind]

So I then changed the xorg.conf to widescreen, plugged in the Apple monitor and rebooted... and voilà: after a "silent" boot as with the other monitor, the Apple monitor goes into standby, and I lose control of the computer. No blind tty, no blind gdm.

The Xorg.0.log is _identical_ in both cases except for these extra lines at the end when using the Apple monitor:

(II) RADEON(0):   MC_FB_LOCATION   : 0x07ff0000
(II) RADEON(0):   MC_AGP_LOCATION  : 0xffffe000
(II) RADEON(0): [drm] removed 1 reserved context for kernel
(II) RADEON(0): [drm] unmapping 8192 bytes of SAREA 0xf17db000 at 0x30020000

Any ideas?

---

