---
title: "6.10 on oldworld macs: can´t get installed vmlinux and intrd.img"
date: 2007-01-30
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by zakwer on 2007-01-30
Hi
I have a (OldWorld unsupported) Beige G3 and a 9500/200 that I am trying to "ubuntize" with 6.10
I can boot into the alternate installer CD, partition disks, install, etc, and then the installer tells me about the vmlinux and initrd.img stuff,

I know that in this point I should copy vmlinux and initrd.img to the hfs partition to use them with bootX, but I can´t manage to do it.
I am trying to follow these instructions:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/OldWorldMacs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/OldWorldMacs)

But I can´t get the "Copying /boot to the HFS* System Folder" part OK: 
- hfs partitions are mounted read-only, ignoring my "w" flags or options, so I can´t write to them
- I did a couple of extra partitions in mac os 8.5, trying to format them as MSDOS (vfat) but macos won´t allow me to, I can only use hfs or hfs+ (although I have File Exchange extension running, I even tried with a 3rd party app)
- I reformatted those partitions with the installer, and could copy /boot into them, but after that macos wouldn´t see them, so I couldn´t get them for bootX.

- Are the instructions above valid for 6.10?
- Would it be easier to extract the /boot contents somehow using an ubuntu PC?

Thanks for your help

---

### Post by linear on 2007-01-30
I *think* you need to be booted into Mac OS at the point where you copy vmlinux and initrd.gz.

---

### Post by zakwer on 2007-01-30
Thanks for your suggestion, but I don´t think that is correct.

Maybe you are referring to the *install* kernel and ramdisk, those must be copied from the CD to the mac partition, booted on the macos side.

The files I am referring to are the ones that get installed on the hard disk during the installation process, and are the *normal* ones that ubuntu is going to use on the day by day usage.
On OldWorld macs they must be copied by hand from the ubuntu ext2 partition to the macos side, and this step is where I am getting trouble.

AFAIK there is no way to mount an ext2 partition under macos, so...

---

### Post by linear on 2007-01-30
Sorry, misunderstood.

Is the hfs partition journaled? That's one reason you might not be able to write to it.

---

### Post by zakwer on 2007-01-30
> **linear said:**
> Sorry, misunderstood.

Is the hfs partition journaled? That's one reason you might not be able to write to it.

I don´t know, do you mean hfs+?
When I format in mac os 8.6 I can only use "hfs" or "hfs extended"
Might the "journaled" option be from later macos versions (9, X...)?

Anyway, all of this shouldn´t be necessary, there must be some other way to get those two files to into macos:
- Are they not available anywhere else than on the install CD?
- Can I extract them from the install CD on macos somehow?
- Or maybe someone could send me those two files by email?
- Or put them somewhere to be downloaded?

-Please? 8-) :-) 8-)

---

### Post by abtabt on 2007-02-02
hello

1. i have installed 6.10 on a 4400 ppc 200mhz and a G3 gossamer (OLD WORLD ) but i use the server install CD  (i have followed the old world wiki )

some reflection i have notice G3 work out off box but when 6.xx came i must use IDE 
harddisks

NOT the scsidisk (if you have scsi pci board ) REMOVE it (conflicts whith memory)

4400 work not so easy (problem with X server ,must use the 5.10 xorg) and installed with light stuff [http://ubuntulite.org/](http://ubuntulite.org/)




if you use 7300 or 9600 you can have some problem with boot  ""cant find the disk"" or something like that 

if you ls /dev you cant find any sda (scsi disks )only hda (ide disk)(then you must do a new image with mesh in it  ) 

2 you say that you cant copy from your boot files  to mac
 but can you look on the mac partion (hfs folder in linux ) can you se any files there ?
can you copy to linuxpartionen from mac 

3. if you use live 5.05.5.10 cd you can do that from there (copy files osv follow the oldworld 
wiki )  i hope this will help you

---

### Post by didg on 2007-02-02
What error did you get when you try to mount fhs partitions rw? For pre OSX (ie not journaled hfs) Ubuntu shouldn't be able to mount them only if they are dirty. 

Maybe you can try to create a small hfs partition rather than fat and unmounting it from Mac OS before booting Linux.

---

### Post by zakwer on 2007-02-04
Well, half solved: somehow using the Kubuntu alternmate disk seemed to solve the problem with the hfs partition not mounting, so I could finally copy the contents of the ext2 /boot partition to the mac os side.

Now the problem is:

I configure bootx to use the new vmlinux and the new initrd.img (renamed to ramdisk.image.gz)
I set the size of the RAM disk to be 14024 (the size of an uncompressed copy of initrd.img = 14.360.576 bytes, divided by 1024)

I boot...
After "adb, TCP bic, NET, ADB mouse and keyboard" this is the part where it hangs (handcopied):

Begin: loading essential drivers... ...
[8949.661374] Capability LSM initialized
Done.
Begin: Running /scripts/init-premount ...
Done.
Begin: Mounting root file system... ...
Begin: Running /scripts/local-top ...
Done.
Begin: Waiting for root file system... ...
Done.
ALERT! does not exist. Dropping to a shell!

And then I get to BusyBox prompt:
(initramfs)

Some things I find at this point:
mount shows:
none on /sys type sysfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec)
none on /proc type proc (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw)

There is no sd* or hd* under /dev so I can´t mount anything by hand
Is this what abtabt warned about? ="if you use 7300 or 9600 you can have some problem with boot ""cant find the disk"" or something like that
if you ls /dev you cant find any sda (scsi disks )only hda (ide disk)(then you must do a new image with mesh in it )"
If so could you explain a little more? ¿how do I do a new image with mesh in it?

Any other idea on how could I boot this 9500/200 into Kubuntu 6.10?

Thanks
Gerardo

---

### Post by pixeldotz on 2007-02-04
i was able to install ubuntu and xubuntu very nicely on my oldworld 3400c. turns out even xubuntu doesn't run as i expected on this, i think i need a bigger swap space. maybe atleast 500megs.

anways here are the exact steps i followed. i used the alternate.ppc.iso of Edgy xubuntu.
this is from the first article in the Oldworld wiki.

the installer will eventually complain that grub and lilo are not being able to install and you need to set a proper root= argument.

when you get that message press these keys.

OPTION+F2

this will drop you to a command prompt.

my hdd is ata/ide so instead  of sda i used hda.

use 'df' without quotes to see where your hdd parts are. also, you can write the info down from the hdd section on the partitioner page.

```

cd /target
mkdir hfs
mount /dev/hda7 hfs -t hfs

```

my /root part is on hda8 so HFS is the partition right before that, thats why i mounted hda7 in the above example.

after all that is done.

do this at the command prompt
```

cp boot/vmlinux hfs/System\ Folder/Linux\ Kernels/vmlinux
cp boot/initrd.img hfs/System\ Folder/ramdisk.image.gz

```

and reboot. in bootx check RAMDISK and root device = whatever the root is. in my case it's root=/dev/hda8

i also put that as the kernel argument.

i couldn't do any of this after i accidentally told xubuntu to continue after it warned me about grub. i had to redo the entire installation to the proper step.

---

### Post by zakwer on 2007-02-04
Thanks for the detailed explanation.
This is basically what I have already done, after some failed trials.

> **pixeldotz said:**
> in bootx check RAMDISK and root device = whatever the root is. in my case it's root=/dev/hda8
i also put that as the kernel argument.


This in particular is not so clear for me. What do tou mean exactly with "put that as the kernel argument"?
In bootX I write:
root=/dev/sda2
on the text line at the bottom, because if I check "use RAM disk" there is no other place to put it.

---

### Post by pixeldotz on 2007-02-05
which version of BootX are you using?

im using the latest one and it allows me to write

root=/dev/hda8

into the kernel arguments, check USE RAMDISK, and specify /dev/hda8 as root again near the USE RAMDISK option.

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-02-05
You may need to try 504 Hoary first to see if that works with your hardware and open firmware, and confirm your proocedure with BootX which now sounds ok. I assume you are using the bootx extension to boot linux,
rather than from the bootx appliaction.

if your bootx setup is now correct, (it sounds ok)
The ALERT message you posted above would read:
 ALERT! /dev/sda2 does not exist. Dropping to a shell
rather than just
 ALERT! does not exist. Dropping to a shell

But these coments are based on similar experience but with very old world Powermac 7300 :-

I have found that the latest version of ubuntu/kubuntu that will restart after install on a powermac 7300/180
( with 2 scsi drives and open firmware 1.0.5, using Bootx 1.2b3 ) is
504 (hoary) with Kernel version 2.6.10-5-powerpc vmlinux and initrd.img.

Later versions, breezy 510 with kernel 2.6.12 onwards, are unable to find the scsi root partition on restart, even though you can partition the scsi disk using the installer partitioning tool. 
(mesh is part of the oldworld scsi system)

---

### Post by abtabt on 2007-02-06
if you want to use later cd  606 610 maby on 510  on a old world mac with scsi disk

then you need to creating a custum initrd.img with mesh,mace,sd,sd_mod,or mac53c94 driver 

how to now what driver i need
when this text apear on the screen 

 ALERT! does not exist. Dropping to a shell

check whats in /dev directory

if only hda x not sda x  (x=number of partion)

write

modeprobe mesh 

udevstart

ls/dev

check if sda x is in  /dev  directory

if there is sucess then we try the rest next time let me now

if not try the rest (mesh,mace,sd,sd_mod,or mac53c94)


THE best way to go when you want to install ubuntu,kubuntu ,xbuntu etc

on a oldworld mac use a mac with ide disk and use the serverinstall cd

and install the xubunu-desktop ,ubuntu-desktop,kubuntu-desktop 

after the server install ,i have done more than 20 installs this way

if you want to install 606 610 maby 510 too 

and follow the old world installation guiden

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-02-06
abtabt

that is very good information, will give it a try soon, thanks for suggestion.

:)

---

### Post by pixeldotz on 2007-02-07
hmm. that's good info.

i didn't know that since my driver is ide, i didn't go through any of those problems.

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-02-07
[QUOTE=abtabt;2114044]
if you want to use later cd  606 610 maby on 510  on a old world mac with scsi disk

then you need to creating a custum initrd.img with mesh,mace,sd,sd_mod,or mac53c94 driver 

--------

if there is sucess then we try the rest next time let me now

=====

abtabt,

I tried it, and it works 
with trial install of xubuntu610, 
on the pm7300. root=/dev/sdb6

on restart by Bootx extension:

After ALERT /dev/sdb6 does not exist dropping to shell

(Initramfs) 
ls /dev/s*
	nothing there
modprobe mesh
	that gives /dev/sda /dev/sdb and their partitions

( udevstart - does not exist -  tried variations),

 so just ^d to exit shell,

and startup resumes through to normal login, and all ok until shutdown.

( Then have to do it all again at next restart ).

Checking the initramfs /scripts/ I see modprobe ide and others, but not modprobe mesh.

Checking with lsmod, all other modules are loaded.

So how do I create a custom initrd.img with < modprobe mesh > added??

====

---

### Post by didg on 2007-02-07
cf.
It's for casper (the live CD) but you'll get the idea
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CustomizeLiveInitrd](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CustomizeLiveInitrd)

another option is to modify /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
cf. man mkinitramfs

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-02-07
didg,

thanks, live CD method looks very feasible, should easily adapt for installed version. Will see if I can do it and report back. Will also look at mkinitramfs, when I get off this MacOSX and back into ubuntu.

---

### Post by abtabt on 2007-02-09
pxwpxw  first step have succed then we take step two (i hope its help you )

if you got lost when you try this link [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CustomizeLiveInitrd](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CustomizeLiveInitrd)

then you can tray this 

you need to mount root partition 

mkdir/mount
mount -t ext3 /dev/sdax /mount     (x=your partition number)
mount -o bind /dev /mount/dev
chroot /mount bin/bash
cd

and then edit /etc/mkinit???/modules   (???i am not shure about the name but if you ls/etc then you see the right ???

and write the right driver you need in modules

run 

dpkg-reconfigure linux-image-`uname -r`

or 
run 
update-initramsfs   (then you must chose what you want to do )

it take some time (3 min or so)

you have now a new image with mesh or what driver you have in /etc/mkinit???/modules

now you must get it  to mac side (the new  initrd.img-x.x.x.x-x-powerpc file)

let me now

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-02-09
abtabt and all above.

 Thanks for good suggestions.

 I now have a new initrd.img that does the job.

 Used < mkinitramfs > after restarting with manual < modprobe mesh > to get past the problem.
 Then editing /etc/initramfs-tools/modules to add the modules.
 Then run < mkinitramfs -o newinitrd.img > and copy the newinitrd.img to usb flash drive and then to macos, and proceed as for the install method with Bootx.

 It works, oldmac lives again.
 
 I will detail the procedure in separate post.

 Other methods suggested above all good for different situations, this way was easiest for me. Very good information for me about booting and intrd that I did not know about until pointed in the right direction, thanks all.

But where is  zakwer the owner of this thread?
Seems like a solution for zakwer too.

---

### Post by abtabt on 2007-02-09
abtabt on line 

good news pxwpxw

when you write it down please tell the rest of the [SIZE="5"]OLDWORLD fans 
need a seperate forum when ubuntu team dont suppurt old world longer
[/SIZE]
LINUX DISTRO : like alternativ ,live, server,xubuntu cd etc and the version (5,05 5,10 etc ) 
COMPUTER model / MHZ: PPC 7300/200
MEMORY : XXX MB
PCI CARD : USB       (if any)
HARDDISK SCSI/IDE /xxxGB :
MONITOR model:            (the video is the common issue)

its easyer to help them 

and i am intrested what a 7300 can do (if its slow , snappy if its useful )

and if you have any video issue

if its slow let me now then mayby you can speed it up i have a bunch of tips

parden my english its not so good my landwish is swedish

---

### Post by zakwer on 2007-02-10
Hi!
I have been a bit busy.
I have had more success with a beige G3, so I left the 9500/200 standing by.
I will retry later with your help. Thanks!


P.S. Right now I am trying to net-install on a COMPAQ 286 with 512 MB RAM and no CD... I guess someone could call me masochist! ;-)

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-02-10
progress report: (success)

Installing ubuntu 610, expert, cli preseed. PowerMac 7300/180 140MBram, internal scsi drives
4.7GB sda 2GB sdb, internal scsi CD. Inbuilt ethernet 10Mbps, pci usb1.2 2port single controller.
macos9.1 + Bootx + BBedit + Resedit + Bootvars. CRT monitor Benq 774.
usb external drive capability OK. (64Mb usb stick, 160GB usb - ATA ide, hard drive accessible)

first stage install following wiki OLDWORLD ZCAT's et al, advice for Bootx.
  Having established that in this case, loading mesh module < modprobe mesh > allowed the restart to succeed. Next step to create initrd.img with required modules.

Noted that the kernel modules needed are all available in the kernel, see /lib/modules/... but were not built into the installed initrd.img. 

I used mkinitramfs to create a new initrd.img with the required modules added.

In the following, ## is a comment by me.  I am typing this, was unable to save screens.
Might be some typos.
Procedure is simple if you ignore the comments.

I restarted from Bootx extension (for Oldworld Mac in Macos9.1) using the vmlinux and initrd.img from the fist stage of the installer, with kernel args root=/dev/sdb6.

Then after getting the ALERT: 

ALERT! /dev/sdb6 does not exist. Dropping to a shell
(initramfs)   
(initramfs) cat /proc/modules

## Note the modules, this listed only 4 modules: ohci_hcd, usbcore, capability, commoncap, essential for reference below.

## then fix the problem of the missing module to enable boot to proceed one more time.

(initramfs) modprobe mesh

## wait for resulting  screen ouput to finish - 30 lines or so. 
## lists the scsi drives (in my case 2 hard drives and cdrom).
## then recheck /proc/modules, to see what new modules appear.

(initramfs) cat /proc/modules
## in my case the added modules were: mesh, sd_mod, scsi_mod

## now exit this (initramfs) shell, to continue the bootup. (CTRL d exit)

(initramfs)   ^d
## then takes about 1 minute to a login prompt
ubuntu login:
## afteer login, I ran depmod, I don't know if this was really needed.
$ depmod

## after reading man about mkinitramfs,  and update-initramfs,  
 I backed up the existing /boot/ files
 backed up /etc/initramfs-tools/ direcories and files.

 Then edit /etc/initramfs-tools/modules (which had no extra modules listed) to add the modules noted above, in my case these were: mesh, sd_mod, scsi_mod.
( See initramfs.conf, the default was MODULES=most ) 
$ sudo nano /etc/initramfs-tools/modules 
###added these:
mesh
sd_mod
scsi_mod

##save and exit, then just need to run mkinitramfs to create the new initrd.img, with name anything you choose, but not to overwrite the existing initrd.img just yet.

$ sudo mkinitramfs  -o newinitrd.img
## takes several minutes.


## then I plugged in a  hfs formatted 64MB usb stick, mounted it and copied the newinitrd.img to it.
$ sudo mac-fdisk -l  ## to see what drive & partition for usb drive.

$ mkdir aaa
$ sudo mount /dev/sdc9 aaa
$ sudo cp newinitrd.img aaa
$ ls -l aaa   
$ sudo umount aaa
## makes sure you alow time ~10 seconds or more to be sure the usbdrive has been updated.

## then shutdown restart to Macos, 
copy the newinitrd into Macos for Bootx as for the install procedure, and select it with Bootx, (using the existing vmlinux and root=/dev/xxx for your 
ubuntu root). then boot back into Linux.
====
Please post any corections/queries.
=====

---

### Post by mdknaebel on 2007-02-24
In case this wasnt already answered, you need to format the Mac partitions as Standard, NOT Extended.  I ran into this problem too.

---

### Post by Tommy on 2007-04-01
> **pxwpxw said:**
> progress report: (success)

Great news!
> 
====
Please post any corections/queries.
=====Thanks!
> 
## after reading man about mkinitramfs,  and update-initramfs,  
 I backed up the existing /boot/ files
 backed up /etc/initramfs-tools/ direcories and files.

 Then edit /etc/initramfs-tools/modules (which had no extra modules listed) to add the modules noted above, in my case these were: mesh, sd_mod, scsi_mod.
( See initramfs.conf, the default was MODULES=most ) 
$ sudo nano /etc/initramfs-tools/modules 
###added these:
mesh
sd_mod
scsi_mod
I'm still on Dapper 6.06 here,** and the file is at /etc/mkinitramfs/initramfs.conf 

I gather the directory moved in Edgy? I just want to be sure before I tackle it next.

Thanks for the great work! I'm not sure if I'm having the SAME trouble on my PowerMac 9600 but this will let me test it.

**P.S.: This machine has been being upgraded since 4.10 Warty, so it may differ from a system installed from scratch.

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-04-02
**Tommy**

> I gather the directory moved in Edgy? I just want to be sure before I tackle it next.

I remember there was some change  in directory names initramfs-tools -- mkinitramfs, 
between ubuntu versions, but I dont think that afects the editing of the modules file or the running of mkinitramfs. I had to do a few dummy runs with mkinitramfs to see what it did.
Just backup everything that might be affected.

---

