---
title: "Powermac G5 fans, iMac G5 fans fixed with new kernel"
date: 2006-08-09
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-08-09
I just compiled the most recent kernel 2.6.17.8. Fans on my powermac G5 are nice and quiet, just like in OS X.

It seems from 2.6.17 and onward that thermal/fan support for the G5 macs is built in. So you can compile your own kernel, and do a 

$ make g5_defconfig

or wait for the ubuntu team to release a 2.6.17.x kernel. 

I did this:

[http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-255032-highlight-thermal.html](http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-255032-highlight-thermal.html)

And it made the fans very quiet.

Gentoo has docs for how to compile a kernel:

[http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/handbook/handbook-ppc.xml?part=1&chap=7](http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/handbook/handbook-ppc.xml?part=1&chap=7)

Make sure to edit /etc/yaboot.conf and run ybin -v to make the changes to the bootloader.

And if you want wireless support (Airport Extreme, or others) you have to enable it in the kernel. Do 'make menuconfig' after doing the make g5_defconfig, and then pick what you need.

---

### Post by gwon on 2006-08-09
Well, you certainly have my attention.

What I'd like to know, how do you go about getting a working install onto an imac G5 in order to do any of this?

---

### Post by wagerrard on 2006-08-09
I'll second gwon.  I've got a 20-inch iMac iSight G5 (presumably rev. D since I bought it two weeks before the Intel announcement) that I'd consider for Ubuntu if the fans worked properly, as well as the rest of the hardware, including the Airport card and the DVD hardware.

Kernel compiles aren't that big a deal, but, from what I've seen, getting any Linux, not just Ubuntu, installed on the iMac in the first place is rather problematic.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-08-09
Okay give me a minute and I'll try to put in a step by step of what I did.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-08-09
How to install Dapper on any G5. Requires a new kernel compile. This is only a light guide. There are other guides to upgrading your kernel elsewhere on the internet. But here's how I did it.


1. Use the alternate Dapper PPC CD. This will go right to the text-based installer.

2. Boot from that CD, and press TAB to see your kernel options to load. Type install-powerpc64 and press enter.

(A working wired ethernet connection is required later, btw.)

3. Install as normal. The fans will turn on quite loud. I let mine run loud, and the computer was ok.

4. After the install, reboot. You will now get to your Ubuntu desktop, with fans revving load. 

5. Open a terminal, and type 

$ sudo -s

to get a root terminal. Then change to the linux source directory. 

$ cd /usr/src/

6. type 

$ apt-get install links build-essential

to get the links browser and development tools.

7. in the terminal type

$ links [www.kernel.org](www.kernel.org)

Now download the latest stable kernel. (The "F" link at the top right is the stable kernel.)

It will save it to your current directory (/usr/src/)

8. Now unpack the kernel source.

$ tar -xvjf linux-2.6.18.1.tar.bz2

9. Make a link to that new kernel like this:

$ ln -sfn linux-2.6.18.1 linux

10. Okay now time to compile the kernel.

$ cd linux/

and type:

$ make g5_defconfig            *(Thanks Twas- fixed my typo!)*

11. When that is done, type

$ make menuconfig

and navigate around to see what other options you want to enable. (I.E.: wireless, tvcards, etc., whatever) If you don't enable what you need, you won't have it!

Some suggestions: 
Kernel Options>Preemption Model>(X)Preemptible Kernel (Low-Latency Desktop)

Try enabling these, and the other boxes listed below them for firewall support:

Networking>Network Packet Filtering>Core Netfilter>Netfilter Xtable support

Networking>Network Packet Filtering>IP Netfilter>IP Tables Support

And poke around to see whatelse you may need.

Then when you are finished, keep hitting ESC to exit and say 'Yes' you want to save.

12. Now type 

$ make && make modules_install

to compile everything. If you have a dual processor, type

$ make -j3 && make modules_install

to use both CPUs to compile this in less time.

13. Now you have a compiled kernel. Now you must add it to the bootloader to boot from it.

In the terminal, back up your first working booting kernel.

$ cd /boot

$ mv vmlinux vmlinux.old

Now copy the new kernel there.

$ cp /usr/src/linux/vmlinux /boot/vmlinux

$ cp /usr/src/linux/System.map /boot/System.map

14. Now edit yaboot. Change the line initrd to the new image, /boot/vmlinux.

$ nano /etc/yaboot.conf

```

## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda2
device=/ht@0,f2000000/pci@5/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0:
partition=3
root=/dev/sda3
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/sda5
defaultos=macosx

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/vmlinux
#	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
	label=old
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
	append="quiet splash"

```

15. Cntrl-X and save. Now write the changes to the boot partition.

$ ybin -v

16. Reboot, and you will boot into your new kernel. Good luck. Gentoo.org has good how-tos on upgrading your kernel which are helpful. Avoid upgrading kernels from ubuntu updates, as that will obviously replace the work you just did with a kernel with no thermal support.

FYI: My machine is a dual 2Ghz G5.
```
stmiller@stmiller:~$ cat /proc/cpuinfo
processor       : 0
cpu             : PPC970FX, altivec supported
clock           : 2000.000000MHz
revision        : 3.0 (pvr 003c 0300)

processor       : 1
cpu             : PPC970FX, altivec supported
clock           : 2000.000000MHz
revision        : 3.0 (pvr 003c 0300)

timebase        : 33333333
platform        : PowerMac
machine         : PowerMac7,3
motherboard     : PowerMac7,3 MacRISC4 Power Macintosh
detected as     : 336 (PowerMac G5)
pmac flags      : 00000000
L2 cache        : 512K unified
pmac-generation : NewWorld
stmiller@stmiller:~$

```

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-08-09
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=218010&page=2](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=218010&page=2), post 12 suggests an alternative to compiling a new kernel for those with G5 dual processor computers. stmiller asked the poster for specs, which have not been provided; however,in reading some other threads, it seems that the kernel referenced has provided fan control. Note: you may need to install from the alternate ppp cd first, then endure the fans roaring until an updated kernel can be installed through the normal update process.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-08-09
Yes I tried the updated kernel in the current updates, before compiling a new one. When I rebooted into the ubuntu updated kernel, the fans were still not in control. Thermal control was inserted as a module (it was present in lsmod) but not working. therm_pm72 ? Or something similar. Very odd.

---

### Post by gwon on 2006-08-09
> **stmiller said:**
> 

3. Install as normal. The fans will turn on quite loud. I let mine run loud, and the computer was ok.

This is the bit I'm worried about, as my other posts in the forum (and other people's) would make clear...most of us can't get past GDM which freezes on boot.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-08-09
I installed in text mode. No X needed. Disclaimer: I have no iMac; only a powermac G5. Posters at the gentoo.org ppc forum have had some success with the 2.6.17.xx kernels with their iMacs. If anyone can try and confirm with a newer kernel, please let us all know.

---

### Post by twas on 2006-08-23
Thanks for the info. My PowerMac G5 is now quiet!!! I have two drives on the system - dual boot to either OS X or Dapper Drake. I took my Dell PC off the desk since the only thing I was using was gMFSK under Ubuntu to work some digital modes on amateur radio. It's nice to simplify!!!

---

### Post by twas on 2006-09-28
Change :
10. Okay now time to compile the kernel.

$ cd linux/

and type:

$ make g5_defconf

and make it **make g5_defconfig**
as described in an earlier post....

---

### Post by lowracer on 2006-10-24
I tried the technique of post #5, rebuilding the kernel.  First, ncurses was not installed, so I had to get that and install it.

Second, the most recent kernel on kernel.org was 2.6.18.1.  This cannot compile without multiple warnings and ends up with make reporting an Error 1, and no vmlinux is generated. This was with changing none of the default settings in the kernel.

I still have the fans going full blast (iMac G5 20" 1.8GHz rev B) and am considering abandoning Ubuntu and installing Gentoo at this point.  The system is working fine except for the fans.  I can't hear myself think with them going full blast.

BTW I can see in the 2.6.18.1 kernel that the fan control is turned on, I just can't get it to compile.

Any clues for how to get that 2.6.18.1 to compile on my G5?  Any other techniques to get the fans to quiet down a bit?  Or does anyone know where I can get a precompiled 2.6.18.1 kernel for the G5?

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-24
I compiled the 2.6.18 kernel with no problems. Do you have all the dev tools installed? (build-essential?)

I could possibly post my G5 kernel image to rapidshare.de or something like that if you want. Built a g5_defconfig with all wireless options and iptables options enabled. 

 I've been trying to contact the ubuntu ppc team. I would offer to make correct kernel images for the ubuntu discs, but I have no idea who actually makes the ppc images that go onto the discs. I need a name and email if anyone is out there...

---

### Post by lowracer on 2006-10-24
Thanks for the quick reply.  I am trying a rebuild using the following installs beforehand (got this from another thread on these forums):

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential
sudo apt-get install kernel-package
sudo apt-get install gcc
sudo apt-get install libncurses5
sudo apt-get install libncurses5-dev
sudo apt-get install libqt3-mt-dev

I hope this fixes it.  I see I am still getting warnings during compile, here is an example, but there are others:

fs/bio.c: In function ‘bio_alloc_bioset’:
fs/bio.c:169: warning: ‘idx’ may be used uninitialized in this function

fs/eventpoll.c: In function ‘sys_epoll_create’:
fs/eventpoll.c:500: warning: ‘fd’ may be used uninitialized in this function

I would have thought that a released kernel would not have any compile  warnings in it.

It just finished the make, and at the end is what appears to be a pretty serious problem:
```

LD      .tmp_vmlinux1
ld: drivers/built-in.o section .init.text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/kernel/built-in.o section .init.text exceeds stub group size
ld: init/built-in.o section .init.text exceeds stub group size
ld: net/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: drivers/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: block/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: ipc/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: fs/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: mm/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: kernel/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/platforms/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/kernel/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/kernel/head_64.o section .text exceeds stub group size
  KSYM    .tmp_kallsyms1.S
  AS      .tmp_kallsyms1.o
  LD      .tmp_vmlinux2
ld: drivers/built-in.o section .init.text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/kernel/built-in.o section .init.text exceeds stub group size
ld: init/built-in.o section .init.text exceeds stub group size
ld: net/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: drivers/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: block/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: ipc/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: fs/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: mm/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: kernel/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/platforms/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/kernel/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/kernel/head_64.o section .text exceeds stub group size
  KSYM    .tmp_kallsyms2.S
  AS      .tmp_kallsyms2.o
  LD      vmlinux
ld: drivers/built-in.o section .init.text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/kernel/built-in.o section .init.text exceeds stub group size
ld: init/built-in.o section .init.text exceeds stub group size
ld: net/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: drivers/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: block/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: ipc/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: fs/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: mm/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: kernel/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/platforms/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/kernel/built-in.o section .text exceeds stub group size
ld: arch/powerpc/kernel/head_64.o section .text exceeds stub group size
  SYSMAP System.map
  SYSMAP .tmp_System.map
  STRIP   vmlinux.strip
  GZIP    arch/powerpc/boot/kernel-vmlinux.strip.gz
  BOOTCC  arch/powerpc/boot/kernel-vmlinux.strip.o
  ADDSEC  arch/powerpc/boot/kernel-vmlinux.strip.o
  BOOTAS  arch/powerpc/boot/crt0.o
  BOOTAS  arch/powerpc/boot/string.o
  BOOTCC  arch/powerpc/boot/prom.o
  BOOTCC  arch/powerpc/boot/stdio.o
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/zlib.h
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/zconf.h
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/zutil.h
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/inffast.h
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/inffixed.h
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/inflate.h
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/inftrees.h
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/infutil.h
  BOOTCC  arch/powerpc/boot/main.o
  BOOTAS  arch/powerpc/boot/div64.o
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/inffast.c
  BOOTCC  arch/powerpc/boot/inffast.o
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/inflate.c
  BOOTCC  arch/powerpc/boot/inflate.o
  COPY    arch/powerpc/boot/inftrees.c
  BOOTCC  arch/powerpc/boot/inftrees.o
  BOOTLD  arch/powerpc/boot/zImage.vmode
arch/powerpc/boot/prom.o: In function `claim':
prom.c:(.text+0x764): undefined reference to `__stack_chk_fail'
arch/powerpc/boot/stdio.o: In function `number':
stdio.c:(.text+0x470): undefined reference to `__stack_chk_fail'
make[1]: *** [arch/powerpc/boot/zImage.vmode] Error 1
make: *** [zImage] Error 2

```
Ouch.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-24
[Linux-2.6.18ppcg5.Tar.Bz2 by Bigupload.Com](http://www.bigupload.com/d=2CCF2EBD)

Okay good luck. Here is my 2.6.18 kernel, if that helps. g5_defconfig. Unzip this in /usr/src then copy the vmlinux and System.map over to /boot. This might at least give you something to boot into, until you figure out the compile issues.


Edit: You could try this. Go to Kernel Options>Preemption Model>(X)Preemptible Kernel (Low-Latency Desktop).

This is what I use (for audio work). The kernel at the above link is compiled as this type of kernel.

---

### Post by lowracer on 2006-10-25
Thanks for the upload. That kernel is now running on my iMac G5 as I type this, and so far the fans are much more quiet. 

The boot process was significantly different from what happened before.  There were a number of FATAL ERRORS reported during boot but it didn't seem to prevent the machine from booting up.  

I just hope the guys who wrote the thermal management routines knew what they were doing.  Hate to have my trusty iMac melt down.

Thanks again for all the help.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-25
Make sure the sym link /usr/src/linux is pointing to the directory you unzipped. In that directory run:

$ sudo ln -sfn linux-2.6.18 linux

Some of those error messages could be kernel modules that were looking for /usr/src/linux. 

Glad it booted! Let us know on this board about any more success/failure. We need more iMac G5 users to give feedback.

---

### Post by lowracer on 2006-10-25
Yes I think you are right, those FATAL ERRORs were kernel modules that couldn't be located.  I got impatient with the un-tarring of the file you uploaded (it was getting very late and I needed to get to sleep!), and once I saw that the vmlinux and the System.map were available, i just copied them to the suggested places and aborted the un-tarring process.  So I'll fix this tonight when I get back on to the machine and see how it goes.  Also this has made Linux the default boot, instead of OS X.  I have to press the ALT key while booting to select OS X.  Not a biggie but I probably should rework it so that OS X is the default boot again.  I think I have an idea how that should go.

Thanks again for the 'real-time' help! :cool:

---

### Post by lowracer on 2006-10-26
OK I fixed the fatal errors on boot.  The file that was not being found was /lib/modules/2.6.18.1/modules.dep.  I checked /lib/modules and there was a 2.6.18 directory but no 2.6.18.1, so I just renamed the 2.6.18 directory so that it is now called 2.6.18.1 and the error messages are gone.

Now only one small problem remains.  Before loading this kernel, I could mount hfsplus filesystems.  Now mount reports that hfsplus and hfs are unknown filesystem types.  I'm wondering if these have to be enabled in the kernel, or am I missing something else?

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-26
hfs+ is enabled in that kernel.

It is odd that it was looking in the 2.6.18.1 directory. Are you sure the sym link of /usr/src/linux is pointing to my /usr/src/linux-2.6.18 directory?

Now that you have renamed that 2.6.18.1 directory to 2.6.18, you are going to get modules that are incorrect for that kernel you have booted. I would remove the 2.6.18.1 stuff all together.

You need the entire 2.6.18 directory in the correct place in /usr/src/ to work WITH the kernel image. You don't just need that vmlinux image by itself.

So unpack that kernel I posted to /usr/src/

and make a sym link (like earlier in this thread) so /usr/src/linux points to /usr/src/linux-2.6.18

---

### Post by lowracer on 2006-10-26
OK I have restored the directories to the way they were:

```

total 83624
    4 drwxr-xr-x  3 root root     4096 2006-10-26 20:12 .
    4 drwxr-xr-x 11 root root     4096 2006-10-24 21:47 ..
    0 lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root       12 2006-10-26 20:12 linux -> linux-2.6.18
    4 drwxr-xr-x 20 root root     4096 2006-10-26 20:11 linux-2.6.18
83612 -rw-r--r--  1 mark mark 85525050 2006-10-24 23:25 linux-2.6.18PPCG5.tar.bz2

```

I am now getting the fatal errors on startup, on the screen that has Tux the pengiun at upper  left, a string of these messages:
```

modprobe: FATAL : Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.18.1/modules.dep
```

And when I try to mount my mac partition:

```
/usr/src# mount /dev/sda3 /mnt/macosx -t hfsplus
mount: unknown filesystem type 'hfsplus'
```

Then I found this command out on the net somewhere, to see if hfsplus is there: 

```
modprobe hfsplus
FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.18.1/modules.dep: No such file or directory
```

And so I guess it isn't, because somehow it is still trying to find things in 2.6.18.1.  So is there something that is different by just copying someone else's kernel compilation, from if you did it yourself on the target machine?

I think I just found part of the answer.  Modprobe man page says that "modprobe looks in the module directory /lib/modules/‘uname -r‘ for all the modules and other  files..."

So just to check, I did a uname -r and it comes back with 2.6.18.1

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-26
Hm. You could try going to /usr/src/linux-2.6.18
and as root (sudo -s) type 

$ make modules

then 

$ make modules_install

if you haven't tried that already. That should put the modules in the correct place. See if that works. I just upgraded to edgy via apt-get; so far so good. I'm compiling a new kernel 2.6.18.1 with edgy's new version of gcc. So far so good, going to restart soon and see how it is.

---

### Post by lowracer on 2006-10-26
OK that worked.  I actually have now rebuilt my kernel from scratch again (2.6.18.1), it gave error messages Error 1 and Error 2 but still somehow produced a vmlinux and System.map.

Then I did a make modules and a make modules_install and rebooted and now I can mount  hfsplus and have no G5 fans blowing papers off my desk.

Thanks for the help! I can now work entirely in kubuntu.

---

### Post by Torrance on 2006-10-27
Ok, this is getting a bit painful for me. There seems no way for me to compile the 2.6.18.1 on a fresh install of Edgy (though I can do it in Dapper).

I keep getting this error:
```

arch/powerpc/boot/prom.o: In function `claim':
prom.c:(.text+0x764): undefined reference to `__stack_chk_fail'
arch/powerpc/boot/stdio.o: In function `number':
stdio.c:(.text+0x470): undefined reference to `__stack_chk_fail'
make[2]: *** [arch/powerpc/boot/zImage.vmode] Error 1
make[1]: *** [zImage] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-2.6.18.1'
make: *** [debian/stamp-build-kernel] Error 2
```

Nothing I do seems to work - and as long as I can't compile a new kernel, I have to put up with the fans. Anyone know how to get passed this? It seems to affect everyone compiling the 2.6.18.1 kernel on ppc using make-kpkg version in Edgy.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-27
I had success compiling the 2.6.18.1 kernel in edgy. I fully updated to edgy with my entire machine, then rebooted. Then downloaded and compiled that new kernel (so to use the new gcc to compile it). And rebooted into it. Works okay here.

What are the errors further up from your output?

---

### Post by Torrance on 2006-10-27
There are no other errors. It's something to do with Ubuntu forcing stack checking, but the kernel not supporting it. It has talked about a bit by Ben H, but I don't get any of his fixes - they're a bit too complicated for me.

...unless you can make sense of what I'm spose to do with this??

```
Code:
diff --git a/Makefile b/Makefile
index 7c010f3..b4a2a80 100644
--- a/Makefile
+++ b/Makefile
@@ -308,7 +308,7 @@ LINUXINCLUDE := -Iinclude \
CPPFLAGS := -D__KERNEL__ $(LINUXINCLUDE)

CFLAGS := -Wall -Wundef -Wstrict-prototypes -Wno-trigraphs \
- -fno-strict-aliasing -fno-common
+ -fno-strict-aliasing -fno-common -fno-stack-protector
# Force gcc to behave correct even for buggy distributions
CFLAGS += $(call cc-option, -fno-stack-protector-all \
-fno-stack-protector)
```

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-27
That's a patch for the kernel, looks like it will fix your problem.

Paste that text into a gedit or nano document, save that as a filename (anything), like: newpatch

Change to root (sudo -s), then

$ cp newpatch /usr/src/linux

Then

$ cd /usr/src/linux

and type:

$ patch -p0 <newpatch


That should do it, I think.

---

### Post by Torrance on 2006-10-27
Of course!

Well, I tried that, and unfortunately that patch doesn't work with the 2.6.18 kernel. *sigh*

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-27
You could try the latest kernel snapshot from kernel.org. See if that compiles.

---

### Post by Shock_ on 2006-11-03
Aiya!

I have an iMac G5 rev C (the iSight one) and I can't compile the kernel at all. I compiled, yes, and it is usable, but it seems don't compile the macintosh modules, because there aren't in /lib/modules/2.6.18.1/kernel/drivers/. (Probably I'm wrong, I'm so noob.) And the kernel which stmiller uploaded don't downloads. Now I use the Edgy stock kernel, and I tried to do the instructions of [https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/34723]("https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/34723"), but it don't works. Can anyone help me? This terrible noisy is going me mad!

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-11-28
Just a late update in case anyone is just now finding this for what worked for my Rev-A iMac G5 running 2.6.18.3 from kernel.org:

Prior to step 12, edit
/usr/src/linux/arch/powerpc/boot/Makefile

and add 
**-fno-stack-protector**
to BOOTCFLAGS. Snippet:

```
BOOTCFLAGS      := $(HOSTCFLAGS) -fno-stack-protector -fno-builtin -nostdinc -isystem \
                   $(shell $(CROSS32CC) -print-file-name=include) -fPIC
```

> 12. Now type 

$ make && make modules_install

to compile everything. If you have a dual processor, type

$ make -j3 && make modules_install

I also added two items to step 13 below:

> 13. Now you have a compiled kernel. Now you must add it to the bootloader to boot from it.

In the terminal, back up your first working booting kernel.

$ cd /boot

$ mv vmlinux vmlinux.old

Now copy the new kernel there.

$ cp /usr/src/linux/vmlinux /boot/vmlinux

My additions:
$ cp /boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-10-powerpc64-smp  /boot/initrd.img.old

$ cp /boot/System.map /boot/System.map.old

> $ cp /usr/src/linux/System.map /boot/System.map

Follow rest of instructions...

Thanks again to stmiller!

---

