---
title: "7.10 can it be done?"
date: 2008-03-08
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-08
Hi, I recently wiped my G3 iMac 400MHz, 512MB RAM, and managed to install Ubuntu 7.04 via the alternate install PPC disk with just a regular install (no special commands).

Prior to installing 7.04, I tried the 7.10 live CD with various combinations of nosplash, powerpc, and video=ofonly to no avail. In short, the system would reboot right as the install software initialized.

I'd like to upgrade to 7.10, because I've used that on other machines and I really like it, but I read (in a thread that I can no longer find) that people were having trouble on PPC with 7.10 whether they did a fresh install or installed an older version and upgraded.

I have the advantage of not having any mission-critical data on this machine, 99% of which is already backed up, so I'm willing to experiment if anybody has any thoughts or suggestions, but I'd rather not do anything too wild as the chance of my missing something and screwing up increases as we get farther from playing with the gui.

Also, if it /is/ safe to install the upgrade and I just misread something, please let me know! :)
Thanks!

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-03-08
Have you tried Xubuntu?  It will give you the same kernel and the ability to install the same applications, but will use a lot fewer resources, which might make your machine work better, since your processor is so weak.

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-08
I've not tried xubuntu, because I like ubuntu, and actually it's not as painfully slow as I would have expected it to be.

I'm somewhat tempted to just install the upgrade, because at the very least it will give me something to do tonight (reinstalling 7.04, most likely), but I'm going to feel like an idiot if I do, and there was some simple fix that would've saved me 2+ hours.

Should I also ask this in the install/upgrade board?

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-03-08
You could try asking in a ppc board.  Or you could just install the upgrade and see what happens; the worst is that you'll have to reinstall 7.04, which doesn't take that long anyway.

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-09
Alright, I installed the upgrade, and to no one's surprise, it didn't start after the reboot.

The Upgrade DID complete successfully, but of the boot options, Linux and old, only old boots.  (That's nice at least - better than nothing)

When I booted old, it appears that I am on 7.10, but some stuff is screwed up, and I'm not sure to what extent.  First, the toolbars are in their default, unskinned forms, but my window borders are still what they were before the upgrade (weird).  I now have pidgin IM *YAY*, and 'About Ubuntu' thanks me for my interest in Ubuntu 7.10.

So...  I'm not really sure how to fix the appearance (not a huge deal), how to get it to auto-boot to 'old', or repair 'Linux', and then if there's anything else that I haven't noticed yet or should look for, I would appreciate if someone would point it out to me.

Thanks!

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-09
also for some reason the sound controls, theme settings, package manager, and Rhythmbox Music Player won't start......

I know we're getting 8.04 in april, but is it scheduled for the beginning or end of april?

Maybe it'd be best to just suffer through for the rest of the month and use 8.04 when it comes out?  unless anyone knows fixes for the things I've mentioned...

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-03-09
> **st0n3cutt3r said:**
> The Upgrade DID complete successfully, but of the boot options, Linux and old, only old boots.  (That's nice at least - better than nothing)

What exactly happens when you boot with the regular Linux kernel of your new upgrade - where does it hang?

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-09
Yaboot starts up, and I can hit tab to get my boot options.  If I just let it boot, or if I type Linux and hit enter, the screen turns white, loads, gets to "Return from prom_init", the screen turns black and says "Loading, please wait" for a split second, then it disappears and nothing ever happens after that.  Screen is black.

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-09
scratch that, after about 4 minutes at the black screen it loads busybox, and has a prompt 

(initramfs) _

now what?

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-03-10
aha.  Semi-good news.  Nice to know it takes 4 minutes, I wouldn't have waited that long!   Does anything in here help, especially the busy-box shell and post-install initramfs...

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues)

You may have to play with the kernel parameters like just typing video=ofonly at the boot: prompt and/or add the ide-core module manually at first and do an initramfs when it boots well.  Hopefully we can get you off the old kernel!

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-10
excellent!
```

modprobe ide-core
exit
```

*got me to the GUI exactly how typing 'old' in the boot options would.  hahaha.

now _volume control_ won't load, the _Quit..._ button freezes my interface, but won't load the quit options (Ctrl Alt Del gets it back to the ubuntu screen), and I keep getting an error:

```
There was an error starting the GNOME Settings Daemon.

Some things, such as themes, sounds, or background settings may not work correctly.

The Settings Daemon restarted too many times.

GNOME will still try to restart the Settings Daemon next time you log in.
```

Also Movie Player, Rythmbox, and Sound Recorder crash after 'Starting _____....'  (never actually opens the application), but VLC media player starts, plays music, and can adjust volume.  (All the same as when I load 'old')

Now with any luck fixing the GNOME Settings Daemon will fix everything else.   Hahaha  I wish...

Thanks for your continued help, stream303!
(Just in case you were worried, I'm actually looking all over for the answers too.  I spent a good 3+ hours reading the busybox commands list trying to figure out what might get me to the gui.  It figures that modprobe, the command I needed, wasn't on the list of available commands that I got when I typed help.       [http://www.busybox.net/downloads/BusyBox.html](http://www.busybox.net/downloads/BusyBox.html)       busybox.... not easy.)

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-03-10
> **st0n3cutt3r said:**
> Now with any luck fixing the GNOME Settings Daemon will fix everything else.   Hahaha  I wish...

Thanks for your continued help, stream303!

No problem - although I can't take credit, I'm just standing on the shoulders of giants in this forum..

That was a great find - being patient enough to wait for busybox to come up.  Who knew it could take up to 4 minutes?

As far a the gnome-settings-daemon problem, I've looked that over for hours and solutions and bug reports appear to be all over the map.

In your case, it seems to be mostly related to sound programs kicking it off - have you tried disabling "ESD" in  your sound prefs?

As for the rest of it, I've seen reports of logging out and logging back in, fooling around with virtual terminals and coming back, downloading dbus-x11 with synaptic or apt-get, changing the gdm login, or even switching to KDE or Xfce - but nothing concrete - it seems to vary individually.

Wish I knew, and If I find something concrete, you can bet I'll post it here asap.

Maybe try some of these things to put a band-aid on the real problem...

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-11
Because I wanted to get all of the functionality out of my system that I should have while also trying to get 7.10 to work, I decided to format the 28.7 GB partition on my computer that was ext3 with ubuntu on it, and divide it up into a 20.7GB FAT32 partition followed by two identical 4.0GB ext3 partitions.

The plan is that I'll store my data on the FAT32 partition, and then install 7.04 to both ext3 and attempt to upgrade one. 

The installation to the first ext3 partition failed, and I'm not entirely sure why.  I told it to resume where it crashed, and it finished the install without complaint, and it ran great (just like I expected it to) right up until I restarted after doing updates.  

I downloaded updates last time, and had no problems, but this time the volume controls crashed (I disabled ESD after the first crash, logged out, then logged back in and it's slightly faster now, but not much faster, and volume controls are still dead)

I'm not entirely sure what to do now to make it run fast....  should I attempt to install again?  this is weird..

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-03-11
> **st0n3cutt3r said:**
> Because I wanted to get all of the functionality out of my system that I should have while also trying to get 7.10 to work,

Man, I hate to say it, but seeing what 7.10 is doing with the gnome-settings problem on that box, I'd say that less-is-more with 7.04 :)

I'd probably throw in the towel for now, and reinstall with manual-partitioning to delete all those partitions, then use the go-back feature to let guided-partitioning use free-space, which you can adjust to your liking to save room for your fat32 data partition.

Thing is, what are you going to store on the fat32 partition, why not just let ubuntu use the whole drive?

But, that's just me ... :)

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-11
I'm really stubborn, and I've seen that a lot of other people have similar issues, so I'd really like to be able to contribute to the community by being better aware of what options there are to fix such issues...

I've not been able to overcome any of the issues that I was encountering before, because when I re-reinstalled 7.04 and downloaded the updates I had all of the font configurations crash (same as the previous attempt) and the interface became extremely slow to load or do anything with post-installing updates.  

After all that I downloaded a 7.10 PPC alternate CD and ran it nosplash-powerpc and it installed no problem.  (just wiped out the 3 partitions from before and have a 29gb ext3 now), installed updates, still no problems, but I still have all the same issues before about the quit button, settings daemon crashing, and volume controls crashing, as well as not being able to load the sound settings to turn off esd.

I just ran ```
 sudo gedit /etc/esound/esd.conf 
``` and changed auto_spawn=1 to auto_spawn=0  hoping that that was the equivelant of unchecking ESD in the sound configuration window.  

So far as I can tell, it isn't ESD that's the issue, and never has been, but it also hasn't hurt anything to have that changed.  (I logged out then in to test)
Fortunately, with the new 7.10 installation direct from CD, the desktop and everything responds as fast as it should even after downloading updates, and no updates failed or crashed.

Unfortunately, I still don't know what's killing my sound or settings daemon.
Going to continue working on it.  Any suggestions for files to look at or things to try, I'm game.

---

### Post by tjniels on 2008-03-18
I don't want to throw this thread off completely, but I have a similar question/problem with my iMac.  I have a iMac G3/350 (PPC) with 320 MB of RAM.  I am feeling ambitious and would like to make it a dedicated Ubuntu machine, here's what I've done so far - 

1) Downloaded the PPC Live CD for Gutsy 7.10.
2) Burned an image of the CD.
3) Successfully booted, after trial and error, my iBook G4/800 (PPC) using live-nosplash-powerpc.
4) Played around with the UI until I decided I liked it
5) Shut down my iBook and tried to boot my iMac using the same CD, no luck.

The iMac doesn't even consider booting.  I held down "c" like you should on a Mac, but it just spit out the CD and went on to boot in OS X as usual.  So let me get this straight, st0n3cutt3r, you successfully installed 7.04 (Feisty?) on your iMac G3, but used the Alternate Install CD?  Perhaps I need to do this with 7.10 on my iMac?

I know there was some theoretical drop of support for PPC machines when 7.10 came out, but the disk I downloaded worked perfectly on my iBook and must have been patched or something.  What baffles me is why it would allow me to boot on a G4 but not on a G3, when both are PPC architecture and both machines have plenty of RAM.  Please post if your upgrade was successful, I may have to start with Feisty and upgrade to Gutsy if that works for you.

Any other suggestions for my situation?

Thanks!

P.S. I'm still a n00b as far as Linux goes, so simple/straightforward explanations will be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-18
You will definitely need an Alternate CD for booting your G3. My machine is a 400MHz with 512MB of RAM, and *most likely* identical to yours outside of that.

I (still) don't know if 7.10 can be done on G3s, and actually...  I'm still having trouble getting 7.04 to work properly. :/   It worked the first time I installed it (before my first 7.10 attempt), but since then it has been laggy after I install updates. I just formatted the drive on a separate computer (that is my guess as to why things were getting screwed up - that it wasn't formatting properly) and I think it may be good now, but I don't want to check right now.

When you get your 7.04 Alternate CD, you'll want to install with ```
install-powerpc
``` That should get you through the install without any trouble, and then you can download updates. 

*Be aware, if you download the upgrade (7.10) there is a good chance you'll have all of the same issues I've listed, and may end up needing to reinstall to get it to work properly. (I've installed ubuntu about 8 times in the last 3 weeks trying to get it to work on this G3)

One other thing, if you get to the boot screen where it shows the ubuntu splash and has the orange progress bar, but the progress bar hasn't progressed at all after a few minutes, hit **Ctrl**+**Alt**+**F1**, and then when you get **(initramfs) _** type **modprobe ide-core** at the first prompt and **exit** at the second.

It should look like this:
```
(initramfs) modprobe ide-core
(initramfs) exit
```

If you get a prompt to log in to ubuntu (from the command line) it might show a different prompt, but I would still use the same code.  It has worked every time for me so far.

Good luck!

---

### Post by tjniels on 2008-03-18
Sounds good.  Once I get the chance, I will download and burn an image of 7.04, and attempt an install on the iMac.  I think I'll first boot from an OS X disk and format the disk in an attempt to avoid some of the issues you've had.

If, by some chance, the computer simply doesn't want to boot from a CD-R, (even though it worked on my iBook) do you know a way to get or borrow a stamped 7.04 disk without waiting for Shipit?

Finally, what are some of the limitations (if any) of 7.04 compared to 7.10, and will 7.04 keep my poor little iMac entertained for the next few years if I never manage to upgrade?  A n00b question - is an Alternate Installation done exclusively with text commands until the OS is fully loaded?  As opposed to a GUI-enabled installation that would otherwise be used?  The end product is the same, but the alternate install requires less RAM, is that the idea?

Any more responses to these questions or my questions above will be appreciated, thanks!

One final question - is Debian more likely to maintain PPC support than Ubuntu?  I like the feel of Ubuntu, but I wonder about future support for the PPC architecture.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by tjniels on 2008-03-21
I don't know if anyone is still reading this thread, but just in case, I'll post this update:

I just got Gutsy 7.10 installed on my 350 MHz PowerPC iMac, with only 192 MB of RAM!  Granted, it runs like a dog, but I'm pretty sure even a small RAM upgrade would fix that.  Here's the thread that documents what I did, although about 50% of the thread is Q&A with other members of the forum.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4556979#post4556979]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4556979#post4556979")

I really hope this helps someone, it *CAN* be done!

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-21
> If, by some chance, the computer simply doesn't want to boot from a CD-R, (even though it worked on my iBook) do you know a way to get or borrow a stamped 7.04 disk without waiting for Shipit?

If it won't boot from a CD-R....  throw it away? ;)

> Finally, what are some of the limitations (if any) of 7.04 compared to 7.10, and will 7.04 keep my poor little iMac entertained for the next few years if I never manage to upgrade?  A n00b question - is an Alternate Installation done exclusively with text commands until the OS is fully loaded?  As opposed to a GUI-enabled installation that would otherwise be used?  The end product is the same, but the alternate install requires less RAM, is that the idea?

I'm not sure what the purpose of the alternate install is, just that it works.  Yes, text only.  It's not a big deal, and actually is a lot faster IMHO, and all of the prompts are the same as the ones you get in the GUI, you just don't have to deal with the slow and clunky 'live' GUI.

I like 7.04 alright, but you can probably tell by this thread that I'm pretty determined to upgrade, so that should indicate to you the advantages of 7.10 over 7.04.   I don't honestly know what changes were made beyond what I've experienced, but the GUI seems to be a lot better thought out as a whole, with a bunch of display preferences grouped together in one tabbed settings window instead of a bunch of separate windows. Also a lot of old packages/programs were removed and replaced with much more intuitive replacements. One great example of this is Gaim.  I hate gaim (a multi-protocol instant messaging client). For the most part, it just doesn't support enough protocols, it's clunky, and ugly. With 7.10 they removed Gaim and replaced it with Pidgin IM, which I love. All of the good things about Gaim (there were a few), plus fixes for all of the things that bugged me, including supporting more protocols (I guess they must have bugged other people too...)

There are some pieces of software that I can only seem to get with 7.10 (running it on a laptop, and 7.04 on the iMac), but nothing really significant...     Mainly, I come away with the impression that 7.10 is a lot friendlier.  I told my roommate who hates ubuntu because of his experiences with 6.06 (so far as I could tell, pretty similar to 7.04, at least in so far as they didn't have dramatic changes like they did from 7.04 to 7.10), but even he agrees that 7.10 is approaching a usable OS (he's a jerk :p)

> One final question - is Debian more likely to maintain PPC support than Ubuntu?  I like the feel of Ubuntu, but I wonder about future support for the PPC architecture.

I think 6.06 was the last offically supported PPC version for Ubuntu, so it's all ports from here.  I'm not sure what Debian is doing...  maybe try their forums?

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-21
That's great that you got it working!  I'll have to look at what you did and try again on mine in the morning.

Before I do that though, because I'm not really keen on installing and configuring 7.04 *again* can you make sure you're not having the same issues that I listed that I was having?  (Settings Daemon crashes, sound crashes, horribly slow, can't _quit_, etc?)

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2008-03-21
debian still mantains and updates PowerPC:

[ftp://mirrors.kernel.org/debian-cd/4.0_r0/powerpc](ftp://mirrors.kernel.org/debian-cd/4.0_r0/powerpc)

---

### Post by tjniels on 2008-03-21
I don't know if you saw, but I actually just got 7.10 working on my iMac G3/350!  I included a link above to the thread where I've been discussing it with others.  Maybe some of the problems I encountered are similar to what you've seen, it might be worth a look.

Thanks for the explanation on 7.04 vs. 7.10, I may be trying Xubuntu soon, I think it'll run faster on my machine.  I'm still debating if I should do 7.04 or 7.10 for Xubuntu, it may take a few days to decide.  I'm still reveling in the fact that I've got Gutsy on a 7-year old iMac.  :)

---

### Post by st0n3cutt3r on 2008-03-21
lol, yeah.  Actually, for all my praise of 7.10, 7.04 isn't too terrible.

I got my G3 second-hand in Feb. of '06, and I'm *pretty sure* it was made in june of '01, although I ripped out the hard drive and RAM and upgraded it to a 40GB and 512mb, so that helps a LOT with speed.  7.04 doesn't have any of the issues I listed above, and I've decided that the most likely cause for my problems re-installing 7.04 earlier were just a failure to format the drive properly, but 30min in my roommate's computer got that all taken care of.

I've not ever tried xubuntu, and I know people keep recommending it, but from what I've read the only *real* reason to use it is if you can't get ubuntu to run at a good speed.  If I only had 192mb of ram, I'd probably consider it, but with the 512 I have ubuntu runs as fast as OSX ever did, so I'm satisfied.

It sounds like you were having all of the same issues that I was having on 7.10 (I read the whole thread), although I'm somewhat tempted to try Debian now. ^_^' lol..   "Promotions!!"

One nice thing about 7.04 is that I know it works. Yours should have the same hardware configuration as mine -HDD/RAM, so the only issue that I expect you will run into installing 7.04 is the one I already mentioned with it not booting the GUI properly where you type >>modprobe ide-core  >>exit   and you should be set.  It works and will run all but 2 of the App.s I've tried to install (Opera - not supported on linux PPC, and Desktop Drapes - a program to auto-switch desktop images like is possible in OSX).  Other than that, it's got everything I want.

Let me know what you try with your system, and how it works out for you, please! (I may decide to install other things to this G3, as I have 4 computers to play with)

---

### Post by tjniels on 2008-03-21
>  Before I do that though, because I'm not really keen on installing and configuring 7.04 again can you make sure you're not having the same issues that I listed that I was having? (Settings Daemon crashes, sound crashes, horribly slow, can't quit, etc?)


Settings Daemon crashes, yes, but this doesn't seem to affect performance on mine.

Sound settings crash, yes, but sound seems to work OK somehow.

Can't quit?  Try unplugging your USB keyboard after you tell it to shut down.  Bizarre, I know, and I'm looking for a better solution, but for now, I unplug my keyboard when I tell it to shut down, and it shuts down.  It took some Googling to find that solution!

Hope that helps/clarifies.  I'm looking at 7.04 Xubuntu, but I have heard a few people criticize 7.04 as much less intuitive in terms of settings than 7.10.  You say 7.04 doesn't have any of the problems listed above?  Did you have to tweak it to get rid of those problems?

Thanks for the feedback, and I hope this helps.

---

### Post by bodek on 2008-03-21
> **st0n3cutt3r said:**
> 
 It works and will run all but 2 of the App.s I've tried to install (Opera - not supported on linux PPC, and Desktop Drapes - a program to auto-switch desktop images like is possible in OSX).  Other than that, it's got everything I want.


If you mean Opera the web browser, it runs perfectly on linux ppc. You can download it from Opera website, look for 'show other versions' and you will find one for linux ppc. There is one for gutsy.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-03-21
When running 7.04, I would probably make sure that my backports repository is enabled in the Software Sources (System > Administration > Software Sources > Updates)  if you need some more up to date stuff.

You can browse to see what single packages will be available to you if you enable backports here:

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/feisty-backports/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/feisty-backports/)

And for an overall view of backports in general:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports)

---

