---
title: "2.6.18.2 g5_defconfig kernel HERE"
date: 2006-11-14
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-11-14
[Linux-2.6.18.2.Tar.Bz2 by Bigupload.Com](http://www.bigupload.com/d=B6FBEEEC)

This is a fully compiled Linux kernel 2.6.18.2, with thermal options enabled in the kernel. Compiled as a g5_defconfig, it will boot and run on any Mac G5 machine, with the exception of: iMac G5 rev C (the iSight one). There is no support for thermal for this machine in the kernel, unfortunately.

Compiled in Edgy with gcc 4.1.2 20060928

It is a stock g5_defconfig kernel with the following also enabled:

low-latency real time kernel
bluetooth
wireless and wireless cards
tv cards
webcams
radios
MMC/SD Cards
NTFS read/write
SMB file system 
Netfilter options (ipchains; firewall)

---------------------------

Here's how to install the kernel:

1. Get root.

$ sudo -s

2. Move the kernel to the /usr/src directory

$ mv linux-2.6.18.2.tar.bz2 /usr/src

3. Unpack the kernel.

$ tar -xvjf linux-2.6.18.2.tar.bz2

4. Make a link to that new kernel like this:

$ ln -sfn linux-2.6.18.2 linux

5. Now, change into that directory, and install the modules.

$ cd /usr/src/linux

then

$ make modules

then

$ make modules_install

6. Back up your old image.

$ mv /boot/vmlinux /boot/vmlinux.old

$ mv /boot/System.map /boot/System.map.old

7. Now copy over the kernel image to the /boot directory.

$ cp /usr/src/linux/vmlinux /boot

$ cp /usr/src/linux/System.map /boot

8. Now edit your yaboot.conf so it points to the new image.

$ nano /etc/yaboot.conf

Here is mine:
```
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda2
device=/ht@0,f2000000/pci@5/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0:
partition=3
root=/dev/sda3
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
enableofboot
enablenetboot
macosx=/dev/sda5
defaultos=macosx

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/vmlinux
#	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old.works
	label=old.works
	read-onle
	initrd=/boot/vmlinux.old.works
	append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
	label=old
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
	append="quiet splash"

```

Control-X and save. 

9. Then write the changes:

$ ybin -v

10. Reboot! Enjoy a quiet, fast computer. 



----
PS: 
Here are a couple of relevant links:

[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/34723](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/34723)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=232908](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=232908)

---

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-11-14
Wow - this *has* to help a lot of us out - thanks for the link and instructions.  Inspired me to get build-essentials and brush up.

Makes me wonder if there is a reasonable way to modify an Edgy installation iso with this kernel and re-burn it in case the stock Edgy iso doesn't work.  Time for me to hit the docs I guess!

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-11-15
Well, I did it!  This kernel definitely **rocks** my world.  You inspired me to compile my own.  Not ony do I have fan support for my Rev-A G5 iMac, but it is definitely snappier.  Operations in Gimp, and other heavy operations kick the frequency scaler from 900 to 1.8 ghz almost immediately whereas before it was sluggish.  Nice.

I don't know what I was afraid of.  Just a few synaptic downloads, kernel source download, a few lines in the terminal and some finger twiddling - done!

I started with your excellent thread and your 15-step program:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=232908](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=232908)

I then noticed the thread about stack-protection:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=285623](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=285623)
I just edited **/usr/src/linux/arch/powerpc/boot/Makefile** and made sure that **-fno-stack-protector** was in the **BOOTCFLAGS**.  Easy.

Then for good measure just apt-get (actually I used Synaptic) to nab:

build-essential
kernel-package
gcc
libncurses5
libncurses5-dev
libqt3-mt-dev

I saw this mentioned in another thread here.  I'm not sure if I really needed them all.

After about an hour (I didn't time it) at 1.9 ghz, twiddling my thumbs, bingo.

It was one of those moments when you jump out of the chair and freak out.  Up comes the TUX PENGUIN!  I changed the append line in yaboot.conf to read just append="splash" so I could see what might cause it to barf.  Nope - it kept on rolling

Anyway, even though I had a working system before with the fan control loaded as a module, I wasn't expecting a nice performance boost on a single cpu G5 iMac.  Not only that but nothing was broken from my earlier default install.  I was also a bit conservative and declined to go for the low-latency option.  Maybe I'll recompile in a few hours after I lie down! :)

Hat's off to you, stmiller and all the rest that make this forum so invaluable.  Now it's off to the Gentoo forums to get my kernel-geek on! :)

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-11-15
I had lots of PMs asking for an updated G5 kernel. Hope this helps those having a hard time compiling a kernel in edgy. Or at least this will give you something to boot into for the time being.

I'm reading about better ways of doing this. You can take the official edgy kernel from source, and re-compile it as you like it. Then you have all the official patches, etc from ubuntu. But the 2.6.18.x kernel has so many fixes for PPC hardware, you are wasting your time with an older (edgy) kernel, IMO.

The 2.6.18.x kernel is the most stable, and fast kernel I've ever used so far.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-11-16
Not to mention cooler.  With my G5 iMac doing nothing but streaming some internet radio and a web page open, with an ambient temperature of 75 degrees, the stock Edgy kernel with fan control added manually as a module would idle at 900 mHz at 52C cpu temp.  (As reported by the Gnome sensor-applet)  The fan sat at around 1500 rpm.

Now with the vanilla 2.6.18.2 kernel compiled with g5_defconfig under the same conditions, the cpu temp sits at 45c degrees still at 1500 rpm fan speed.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-11-17
Wow you are right. My idle temps on my Powermac G5 dual 2Ghz are 47C and 41C. In OS X this machine idles at 68C.

```
root@stmiller:~# cat /sys/devices/temperature/cpu1_temperature 

47.154

root@stmiller:~# cat /sys/devices/temperature/cpu0_temperature 

40.765


```


Running GLX gears, to crank up the CPU a little, the temp went to 57C.
Very cool. (No pun intended)

> root@stmiller:~# cat /sys/devices/temperature/cpu1_temperature 
56.950

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-11-17
That's pretty significant!  I'm sure the G5 likes it, not to mention the environment.  Sounds silly, but it's a valid reason to run Linux vs OSX right there.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-11-17
Ars had a crazy indepth article about the G5 processor when apple first introduced it in their machines. They concluded with this:

[http://arstechnica.com/cpu/03q1/ppc970/ppc970-10.html#conclusions](http://arstechnica.com/cpu/03q1/ppc970/ppc970-10.html#conclusions)

> On the IBM side, I think the 970 will make a great Linux platform, especially for content creation companies that are currently replacing their expensive 64-bit *NIX workstations and rendering machines with commodity x86-based Linux systems. If IBM can keep the prices of its 970-based Linux boxes competitive, they could see their systems gain traction in many of the places that Linux-based PC systems are starting to enter. 

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-11-19
Interesting - normally sitting at 42-43c idle.  Once I use a usb port it never gets cooler than 49-59c at idle.

---

### Post by Gen2ly on 2006-12-07
stmiller, why is 25th line:
> #	initrd=/boot/initrd.img

deactivated?  Mine isn't and I'm having some boot problems.

---

### Post by dwdraw on 2006-12-10
If anyone wants to create a package (.deb) for this kernel, I will host it on my site.

Review:
```
$ sudo apt-get install kernel-package libncurses5-dev fakeroot wget bzip2
```

[INDENT]In the kernel directory, do this. (I'm a bit rusty--I ran Debian for 4 years until going Mac--but basically you unpack the kernel source tree, configure the kernel (to work with iMac G5 fans and all), then run the kernel package commands.)[/INDENT]

```
$ sudo make-kpkg clean
$ fakeroot make-kpkg --initrd --append-to-version=-2.6.18.2-g5_defconfig kernel_image kernel_headers
```

[INDENT]You should get two files with names similar to these:[/INDENT]
```
$ ls ./
. . .
linux-image-2.6.18.1-custom_2.6.18.2-g5_defconfig.deb
linux-headers-2.6.18.2 g5_defconfig.deb
. . .
```

If someone makes an iMac G5 (w/o iSight) kernel package, let me know (PM or thread reply), and I'll host the package(s) at my website after figuring out the best way for you to send me the packages!

I've been looking for a way to get Ubuntu up and running without much hassle, and it looks like, soon, I will be able to quickly install Ubuntu!

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-12-10
If anything, the 2.6.19 kernel would be the best bet since you don't have to worry about adding stack-protection to the makefile.

For most iMac G5 (w/o) isight users like myself, the easiest thing to do with the stock kernel is to just put up with the fans during install and then do the following in a terminal:

---------------------------------
**Control the fans immediately:**
1) sudo -s (get into a root shell)
2) cd /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/macintosh
3) ls | cut -d. -f1 | xargs -n1 modprobe (don't forget that period after -d.)

Ignore the other warnings that may show up.

**Make sure fans are controlled at boot:** (you only have to do this once - from then on, the fans will be controlled at every boot)

lsmod | cut -d" " -f1 | grep windfarm >> /etc/modules
-----------------------

For specialized needs, compiling your own kernel can be quite instructive - or destructive if you do it wrong. :)

---

