---
title: "2.6.15-26-powerpc"
date: 2006-07-12
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by Uta on 2006-07-12
Yesterday I updated my system and I see in my boot folder I have 2.6.15-26 kernel but when I do "uname -a" what is listed is the old kernel,Linux ibookg4 2.6.15-21-powerpc.
How do I get the system to utilize the newest version. Thanks!

---

### Post by keifer on 2006-07-12
Most likely, the links in /boot are pointing to the wrong files. You can check it by:

```
cd /boot
ls -l vmlinux initrd.img
```

which should give  you:

```
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 28 2006-07-11 08:58 initrd.img -> initrd.img-2.6.15-26-powerpc
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 25 2006-07-11 08:58 vmlinux -> vmlinux-2.6.15-26-powerpc
```

---

### Post by Uta on 2006-07-12
Thanks for your reply. Yes the link is incorrect but how does one correct them? Is it manual edit or is this a ybin thing? Thanks.
------------------------------
OK I changed yaboot.conf to use the new kernel and then ran ybin, got my blessing and when I do uname -a it list the new kernel but when I run your suggested command, it still list the old kernel? Any suggestions?

---

### Post by keifer on 2006-07-12
The links exist so you don't have to point yaboot to a new kernel with each update. Instead, you just change to which kernel the link points to. When you updated your kernel, the links should have been changed automaticaly, but for some reason that didn't happen.

I would recommend pointing yaboot back to the links. This way, if the system does update the links next time you upgrade a kernel, you won't have to tell yaboot where the new kernel is.

In the mean time, you can point the links to the new kernel with the following:

```
cd /boot
sudo rm -Rf vmlinux
sudo ln -sf vmlinux-2.6.15-26-powerpc vmlinux
sudo rm -Rf initrd.img
sudo ln -sf initrd.img-2.6.15-26-powerpc initrd.img
```

Once you do that, you can point yaboot back to the default settings.

---

### Post by Uta on 2006-07-12
Thank you so much for the information. I am now on the straight and narrow and all is set correctly. Cheers!

---

### Post by rasec on 2006-07-12
keifer, changing the symlinks is a little risky. The whole idea behind using a boot manager like yaboot is to provide the user with a little redundency just in case an upgraded kernel goes stale. I know that you are still saving your previous kernel, but for me personally I like to be able to choose which kernel I want to use. Plus, on the pc side of ubuntu, whenever there is a kernel upgrade, the installer makes a new entry for it in grub's menu while retaining all of the previous kernel entries. But hey, whatever works for you.

---

### Post by keifer on 2006-07-12
Rasec, I was under the impression that changing the symlinks was the action that ubuntu/ppc recommended. Atleast on my system, when I update a kernel, the system automatically changes the system link. As a saftey-net, the kernel that was just replaced is available via the 'old' label at the yaboot prompt.

I agree that it would be ideal to have seperate labels for every kernel on the system, but currently the scheme used on Dapper is to just have 'linux' (i.e. 2.6.15-26) and 'old' (i.e. 2.6.15-25). This would probably be a good thing to suggest for the Edgy release.

---

### Post by zachws on 2006-07-12
This is a recognized bug and there have been threads already about it. The best solution right now is to wait or hardcode your way into a slightly updated kernel (which could have bad effects down the road). PowerPC people always need the latest kernel as our hardware is always slightly behind compatability wise. I am trying to compile 2.6.18rc1 (the very latest, and occording to linus, an uber update for hardware) for the PPC. I will keep you all updated with my successes or failures if that is desired.

Thanks,
Zach

---

### Post by rasec on 2006-07-12
keifer, are you using a g5? I just upgraded my powerbook kernel and the symlinks didn't change. Maybe later I'll look at the g5 installer scripts and see what they're doing different from the 32-bit powerpc and make a patch so that the 32-bit kernel behaves like the g5, unless someone beats me to it.

zackws, I been down that route and compiled my own kernel when I was trying to get my airport card working, and believe me its not worth it. My problem turned out not to be kernel related, but instead it was caused by a shared library that was compiled with a missing flag. If you look at the ubuntu kernel's git tree on kernel.org you will see that although it may only be a version 2.6.15 all of the important changes, security + drivers fixes, have been backported from the latest and greates kernel. Plus you have to remember that the ubuntu kernel includes some specialized patches, such as the one to get the brown/blue boot screen, that isn't included in the main stream kernel. Now I don't want to discourage from compiling a kernel, like I mentioned I do it from time to time, but unless you need a specific feature, you're better off using the stock kernel. 

By the way, I believe the ubuntu kernel maintainer has two kernel git branches at kernel.org, one of the is the stable branch that dapper uses, but the other uses the bleeding edge kernel sources as a base I think. 
Head over to [http://www.kernel.org/git](http://www.kernel.org/git) and take a look. I don't know if he makes nightly builds, but that might be something to look for.

---

### Post by RHTopics on 2006-07-13
I am curious if any PowerPC computer after completing the Linux image updates had their symbolic links in /boot automatically changed for them to point to the latest kernel.

That is, if you do a "uname -a" from a Terminal window, did you automatically
get this?:

```
Linux ubuntu 2.6.15-26-powerpc #1 Fri Jul 7 19:26:36 UTC 2006 ppc GNU/Linux
```

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-13
Yes.:)

---

### Post by RHTopics on 2006-07-13
avtolle, Thanks for the reply.

I had a feeling that this problem is not universal.

What model Mac do you have?

---

### Post by rasec on 2006-07-13
RHTopics, I ran diff on all of the installer scripts in between the 32-bit and 64-bit kernels and the only thing that I noticed that was different was the boot manager they specified. The 32-bit postinst script defined the boot manager to be yaboot, but the 64-bit kernel was something like noboot. Now, without examining this scripts fully, I suspect that the g5 script defaults to changing the symlinks, whereas the 32-bit kernel relies on some yaboot script to add a new kernel entry to the yaboot.conf. Of course my theory could be proven wrong by someone reporting that their 64-bit kernel upgrade didn't update the vmlinux syslinks.

---

### Post by RHTopics on 2006-07-13
rasec,  I did a search in launchpad's bug reporting facility for "yaboot" and came across this bug report:

[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/52679](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/52679)

Appears the problem is with the configuration file, */etc/kernel-img.conf*

My contains the following:

```
do_symlinks = yes
relative_links = yes
do_bootloader = no
do_bootfloppy = no
do_initrd = yes
link_in_boot = no
```


It appears the last entry ( **link_in_boot** ), should be set to yes inorder for the symbolic links to be created in the /boot directory by the Linux kernel update package.

---

### Post by rasec on 2006-07-13
Thanks for the heads up, RHTopics. That would explain why some people's kernel upgrades work automatically and others don't. It looks like if you upgraded from breezy, your kernel should work on the next reboot, but if did a clean install it won't. Still, it's interesting how the 64-bit and 32-bit kernel installer scripts specify different bootloaders.

---

### Post by va3uxb on 2006-07-14
For what it's worth, I just did the kernel upgrade with apt-get dist-upgrade and it automatically updated the symlinks in /boot for me.  So after the apt-get and a reboot, it's on the new kernel and I didn't have to chagne anything else or do anything in /boot.

I'm running Dapper server on a (headless) G4 Mac Mini.  It was a clean install of Dapper from the DVD, not an upgrade.

-Stephanie

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-14
RH Topics, I have a G4 Cube. Hope this helps, sorry for the late response.

---

### Post by RHTopics on 2006-07-14
Stephanie(va3uxb) and avtolle,

Correct me if I am wrong.

In your **/etc/kernel-img.conf** file, the last entry is:
```
link_in_boot = yes
```

Also, how many kernel images do you have in /boot?  I currently have three since doing a clean install of Dapper using the ShipIt CD:
```
2.6.15.23-powerpc
2.6.15.25-powerpc
2.6.15.26-powerpc
```

Is the kernel update process, when it works correctly, removing old kernel images and keeping just the last two?

rasec,  That is interesting about the boot loader being different for the 64 bit kernels.  Looks like it is another variable in the kernel update equation.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-14
RHTopics, that's an affirmative as to the inquiries contained in your last post directed to me, inter alia; if I can get you further info, please advise. You should know I am at work, and only allow myself to be on the Forums at breaks.:mrgreen:

---

### Post by va3uxb on 2006-07-14
I have the same three images in /boot.  I did a clean install from the 6.06 DVD, and have kept up to date with apt-get about every week or every other week.

My kernel-img.conf contains:
```
do_symlinks = yes
relative_links = yes
do_bootloader = no
do_bootfloppy = no
do_initrd = yes
link_in_boot = yes
```

-Stephanie

---

### Post by Uta on 2006-07-14
since I was the neophytis who started this thread, I would like to add that my kernel-img.conf reads as follows:

cat /etc/kernel-img.conf

do_symlinks = yes
relative_links = yes
do_bootloader = no
do_bootfloppy = no
do_initrd = yes
link_in_boot = no

Should I edited it to read "link_in_boot = yes"  ?

---

### Post by RHTopics on 2006-07-14
avtolle and Stephanie, Thanks for the reply.

If kernel updates continue to occur at the present rate and the old kernel packages are not removed as part of the kernel update process, after awhile we are going to have quite a collection of kernel images in /boot.

Uta, After looking again at the bug report I linked to in post #14 and the responses from avtolle and Stephanie, I am going to set **link_in_boot = yes** in **/etc/kernel-img.conf** and then see what happens with the next kernel update.

For people that have not manually adjusted their symbolic links in /boot, I would think they could set **link_in_boot = yes** and then in Synaptic reinstall *linux-image-2.6.15-26*.  That probably should cause the proper symbolic links to be made.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-14
RHTopics, FWIW, I agree w/you, especially in light of the linked bug report in post 14, *supra*. It appears therefrom that this will be taken care of in the future, assuming the appropriate scripts can be edited and work.

---

### Post by va3uxb on 2006-07-14
I will keep an eye on the /boot directory for after the next kernel upgrade as well, to see if I end up with four images, or if the oldest one gets removed.

-Stephanie

---

### Post by AbEx on 2006-07-16
> **RHTopics said:**
> avtolle and Stephanie, Thanks for the reply.
For people that have not manually adjusted their symbolic links in /boot, I would think they could set **link_in_boot = yes** and then in Synaptic reinstall *linux-image-2.6.15-26*.  That probably should cause the proper symbolic links to be made.

Tried that, it didn't work (still using 2.6.15-21). 
21, 25, 26 are all in the boot directory.

Mine was a clean install on a powerbook G4 and had the link_in_boot=no initially.

---

### Post by RHTopics on 2006-07-16
I was hoping that would work to make things simpler for people updating their kernel image.

I guess we will have to wait and see until the next kernel image update if setting **link_in_boot = yes** in **/etc/kernel-img.conf** will work.

---

### Post by zachws on 2006-07-16
I was in the same boat as you all but I got the new kernel to work. Admittedly this isn't really a fix, but it shows you that it is a bug. I had to format and reinstall a clean Dapper... I left the repos the way they are on original installation...ran sudo apt-get dist-upgrade...Then I rebooted and the right kernel showed up, 2.6.15-26 in uname -a.

Maybe this will help? If you guys format a lot, just workaround the problem by formatting, updating and then using the rest of the repos (all those not enabled by default).

---

### Post by bigscotty20 on 2006-07-17
Where can I *get* a kernel update anyway?

---

### Post by bigscotty20 on 2006-07-17
yes. i've encountered that problem. but where exactly do i get a kernel update?

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-17
What kernel is currently in use?

---

### Post by RHTopics on 2006-07-17
bigscotty20,

The Kernel (Linux Image) updates being discussed are update packages that are part of Ubuntu's on going update process.  If you have Update Manager enabled -- which it is by default --, you will see them in Update Manager ready to be applied.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-18
RHTopics, an upgraded kernel appeared today. It is, IIRC, 2.6.15-26.45, which I have downloaded and installed. All relevant behavior is as it should be. BTW, date on kernel is July 17, 2006. Thought I'd alert all reading, if hadn't been notified, etc.

---

### Post by RHTopics on 2006-07-18
avtolle,

Just got done downloading and updating the kernel.

The update process put out the following messages:
> Not touching initrd symlinks since we are being reinstalled (2.6.15-26.44)
Not updating image symbolic links since we are being updated (2.6.15-26.44)
After the update, I had to hard boot the computer.  I believe the hard drive in this old iMac is suffering from the heat wave we are having.  105'F around here today.

Doing a uname -a, shows the kernel was updated.

2.6.15-26-powerpc #1 Mon Jul 17 19:51:43 UTC 2006 ppc GNU/Linux

---

### Post by zachws on 2006-07-18
> **bigscotty20 said:**
> Where can I *get* a kernel update anyway?

> **bigscotty20 said:**
> yes. i've encountered that problem. but where exactly do i get a kernel update?

> **avtolle said:**
> What kernel is currently in use?


I believe the kernel at present is still 2.6.15-26 for the ppc.

You get the latest ubuntu certified kernel via apt-get or update manager.

If you mean the latest *linux* kernel, that would be at kernel.org and you need to compile it from source. Last time I checked that it was 2.6.18rc2.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-19
RHTopics, got the same messages during update, just forgot to post.:-| We are also having heat wave, 108 yesterday, but the Cube I have (thanks to AC in office) is doing OK, didn't have to hard boot. anyway, back to topic; looks like things are not broken, at least for me.

---

