---
title: "triple boot problem"
date: 2005-09-01
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by trash on 2005-09-01
I had a hfs+ partition that was rendered unusable so I decided to fresh install Hoary on it, all went well but my other, os9 and older Hoary partitions were not added to yaboot.
I figured i would just go back into the installer and fix it from there but I now have messed it up enough that when i select write to disk, it wants to format the entire drive!

partitions:
9 boot
10 os9 hfs
11 boot
12 root (old hoary)
13 swap
14 root (new Hoary) /
15 swap

what shoud the mount points for 10 and 12 in order to have them put into yaboot?
Thanks!

---

### Post by trash on 2005-09-01
sorry to bump but i'm kinda desperate sitting here in the partitioner, getting tempted to proceed but so don't want to lose everything.

---

### Post by pvz on 2005-09-01
You can always add them manually to your yaboot.conf later, just don't forget to run sudo ybin after you made any changes.
Here's how mine looks, with Kubuntu with different kernels, Debian and OSX:

pvz@ibook:~ $ cat /etc/yaboot.conf
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda2
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:
partition=6
root=/dev/hda6
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/hda4

image=/boot/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
        label=old
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux-2.6.12.2
        label=test
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img-2.6.12.2
        append="quiet splash"

# This entry automatically added by the Ubuntu installer for an existing
# Linux installation on /dev/hda7.
image=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:7,/boot/vmlinux
    label=debian
    root=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:7
    append="root=/dev/hda7 ro quiet splash"
    initrd=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:7,/boot/initrd.img

Also, you should be able to choose wich partition to boot from by holding the ctrl-key during boot if I remember correctly. The screen will show icons of bootable partitions to choose from.

---

### Post by trash on 2005-09-01
I sure wish i had done that to begin with... I was thinking grub and not yaboot when i went ahead with the partitioner.

I'll try to quit the installer cd and go that route

Thanks!

EDIT:
Option key :)

---

