---
title: "6.06 installed and BOOTED!"
date: 2006-06-08
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by swartzfeger on 2006-06-08
After my last round of of yaboot.conf tweaks, I finally have 6.06 booted! Thanks to everyone, especially Tidris and kellogs.

A few questions that I haven't found answers to yet after some searches --

1. I installed from a Kubuntu alternate ISO CD, and used the install-powerpc64 option. Is smp/dual processor support installed by default for my dual G5, or is this something I must enable?

2. is there a Linux equiv of ctrl-alt-del/opt-cmd-esc? I managed to completely freeze the system when previewing an OpenGL screensaver, and I couldn't launch the konsole.

3. I'm blown away how FAST this feels next to OS X -- VERY snappy... however, typing in Konqueror feels a tad sluggish. Is this normal? I'm downloading Firefox to see if it exhibits the same behavior.

4. When does the euphoria wear off? :)

---

### Post by kellogs on 2006-06-08
hey that's cool you finally made it. I'm glad you did. I did not have to go by all this because my first install was with breezy and with an empty disk.

> 1. I installed from a Kubuntu alternate ISO CD, and used the install-powerpc64 option. Is smp/dual processor support installed by default for my dual G5, or is this something I must enable?

Im afraid not, look at the system monitor, in system-administration (im my setup its like that, well translated from spanish lol) and you will see resource usage, look at cpu usage. If got my two cpus working. if you only see one, you will have to change that to dual, remember there is an install option for dual G5. (install-powerpc64-smp I think).

> 2. is there a Linux equiv of ctrl-alt-del/opt-cmd-esc? I managed to completely freeze the system when previewing an OpenGL screensaver, and I couldn't launch the konsole.

Welcome to the land of Dri problems. that seems to be a problem with acceleration. you could restart X with control+alt+(big delete key) and check if that helps-.

> 3. I'm blown away how FAST this feels next to OS X -- VERY snappy... however, typing in Konqueror feels a tad sluggish. Is this normal? I'm downloading Firefox to see if it exhibits the same behavior.

Im using Firefox 1.5.0.3 here, and Software acceleration at the moment (no 3d here for dapper with ATI 9600) and firefox goes faster than in Macos. 

> 4. When does the euphoria wear off? 

Im not sure what that means, im spanish. but if you ask about when will you feel LESS excited by the ubuntu euphoria, well, ive got about a month by now and I cant stop looking for dapper things, dapper news, linux games, coding, etc. lol.

---

