---
title: "ATi Rage Mobility L: Anyone got it working 100%?"
date: 2005-05-19
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by yakkmeister on 2005-05-19
This is the card from the iBook circa 1999 ...
(clamshell, one USB, no firewire,  approx 64MB RAM ...)

I don't believe I have mine going at 100% ...
I do 
> glxinfo | grep 'direct'

and I get
> direct rendering: no
> OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect


Details:

As far as xorg.conf;
I'm loading the following modules:

bitmap
dbe
ddc
dri
extmod
freetype
glx
int10
record
type1
vbe

I've the following device setup:

Identifier   "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage Mobility L (agp)"
Driver        "ati"
BusID        "PCI:0:16:0"
Option       "UseFBDev"                  "True"

Default depth on the "screen" is 24

DRI Section has:
Mode        0666

Kernal is standard for Hoary, and everything is working fine, only quite slow and no Direct Rendering.

Thanks for all help.

---

### Post by karl_kashofer on 2005-05-19
Hi !

I am sure you know, but with 64MB RAM you are scratching the bare limit.
You should definitely get some more, will speed things up a lot.

One thing I spotted in your xorg.conf is the DefaultDepth.
This should be 16, not 24. Will make things faster.

Cheers,
Karl

---

### Post by Len on 2005-05-19
For that machine you can get a 128 MB memory module for as less as $35. It will probably speed up your system with 600% or so, this also goes for OS X.

As for the ATI card, I'd try to tweak the device setup.
First I'd try to change
Option "UseFBDev" "True"     to    Option "UseFBDev" "false" and see if X still works (should be faster)
From the fbdev site:
"fbdev is an XFree86 driver for framebuffer devices. This is a non-accelerated driver, the following framebuffer depths are supported: 8, 15, 16, 24. All visual types are supported for depth 8, and TrueColor visual is supported for the other depths. Multi-head configurations are supported."

Typing "man ati" in a terminal will give you many optimization settings for this driver.

---

### Post by slux on 2005-05-19
[QUOTE=Len]
Option "UseFBDev" "True"     to    Option "UseFBDev" "false" and see if X still works (should be faster)
From the fbdev site:
"fbdev is an XFree86 driver for framebuffer devices. This is a non-accelerated driver, the following framebuffer depths are supported: 8, 15, 16, 24. All visual types are supported for depth 8, and TrueColor visual is supported for the other depths. Multi-head configurations are supported."driver.[/QUOTE]

This actually only means that the driver should use the fbdevhw module which is not the same thing as the fbdev driver. I doubt changing that to false will improve performance at all.

As Len said, getting more memory will make your machine several orders of magnitude faster. I have a very similar setup and it's _very_ usable after I added a 256MB memory module (I'd recommend at least that unless you're on a really tight budget).

As for the direct rendering info you pasted, it means you're not using 3D acceleration with your video card but that's not very useful with the Rage Mobility anyway. I've tried installing the drivers and hardly noticed any performance enhancement in OpenGL apps. I doubt you're going to run anything fancier than a opengl screensaver on a this kind of machine anyway.

---

### Post by chascon on 2005-05-20
You might want to look at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=135896&highlight=rage#post135896](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=135896&highlight=rage#post135896)

I got my iMac DV working with accel but many others have not.  I assume this is because I am using the Rage 128 (RL/VR AGP) and they are using some other variation.

> Here's my xorg.conf that works with accel on my iMac 400 DV Rage 128 via Hoary. Hoary seems to have taken it verbatim from my previous XF86Config-4 file in Warty.

# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
# cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
# md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
# dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "Files"
FontPath "unix/:7100" # local font server
# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
# FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID" #told to delete this in any file with this line.
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
# paths to defoma fonts
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "GLcore"
Load "bitmap"
Load "dbe"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "record"
Load "speedo"
Load "type1"
Load "v4l"
Load "vbe"
Load "xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "keyboard"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xfree86"
Option "XkbModel" "pc104"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 (RL/VR AGP)"
# Driver "ati"
Driver "r128"
VideoRam 8834
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
Option "AGPMode" "2" 
# The below are taken from the net but [http://www.xfree86.org/current/r1286.html#6](http://www.xfree86.org/current/r1286.html#6) doesn't show as options.
# Option "AGPFastWrite" "true" #experimental,freezes X as of sept 2003 but "works" w/rage128
# Option "EnableDepthMoves" "true" #should be fine for rage 128
# Option "EnablePageFlip" "true" #crashes iMac Rage128 w/ sarge & daezner's X, Feb16,2005
# Option "backingstore" "true" #from Xorg config for Radeon9200 but wrks w/ above line's setup
# Option "RenderAccel" "true" #[http://www.esdebian.org/forum/viewt...showtopic=10918](http://www.esdebian.org/forum/viewt...showtopic=10918)
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "iMac"
HorizSync 60-60
VertRefresh 75-117
Modeline "1024x768" 78.80 1024 1052 1148 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 (RL/VR AGP)"
Monitor "iMac"
DefaultDepth 16
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

#for radeon 9200 except maybe Option DAMAGE ...
#Section "Extensions"
# Option "Composite" "Enable"
# Option "RENDER" "true" 
# Option "DAMAGE" "true" 
#EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection 

Since then I also have thrown in the 'Option "SWCursor"' in the Device section of xorg.conf as daniels recommended and enabled the Options that were hashed (except the one labelled as crashing my system and the ones for the radeon 9200) as they seem to make something of a difference with hoary.

I also did the following:
In /etc/modules I added:

uninorth_agp
agpgart
r128

I have removed xscreensaver and glx-rss and all screensavers.  And yes, you need to set Depth to 16, not 24 for accel.

Get some ram.
Lastly run xfce4, as Gnome is a little slow even on my iMac that I managed to stick in a gig of ram.

If this doesn't work maybe we can compile a list of Rage 128 cards that have difficuilty and hand that to bugzilla.

---

### Post by yakkmeister on 2005-05-21
Ok ... 16bit.
Can do.

RAM for $35? -> what country are you in? I'm in Aus, and if it's available here for that cheap, I'm all over it like white on a polar bear!

Does this iBook support 256MB RAM? (but then, is it worth it, with a 500mhz G3 ?)
Also, I don't think this machine can have it's video card changed ... how would one do that if the GPU is onboard?

Thanks for the help all! -> much appreciated ...
/me goes off to play with settings...

//EDIT//

I added:
Load "GLcore"

but what do these do?
Load "speedo"
Load "v4l"
Load "xtt"

---

### Post by slux on 2005-05-21
It certainly can handle 256MB as I have that on the original 300MHz clamshell that has 32MB by default. Believe me, it'll make a *huge* difference.

I wouldn't worry about the video card speed, you're probably not going to play the latest games or watch high resolution DivX movies with that kind of processing power anyway. Adding the memory should make things nice and snappy.

---

### Post by chascon on 2005-05-22
[QUOTE=][/QUOTE]
 sdram which is outdated ram for these  machines should be cheap.  Look around to see if someone still stocks them.  Chances are that if they stilll have them in stock they are desparate to get rid of them.  On the other hand, having to order in because they got rid of all their older ram is costly.  Always get more ram that what you need (it'll become necessary down the road), and make sure you pay attention to the market so you can get it cheap.

---

### Post by metacortex on 2005-06-04
Good. direct rendering works !!!

iBook G3 500 dual-usb ati mobility m3(agp)


glxgears:
400~450 fps => 2460 fps


thanks chascon ;)

---

### Post by lukesky333 on 2006-10-25
I've seen you got your iBook G3 Dual-USB with an ATI Mobility M3 working with over 2400 fps???

Please tell me how to do this. I've only 430 fps and I need more...

Perhaps you can send me your xorg.conf??

Thanks,
~rayk

---

