---
title: "6.10 on a Macbook"
date: 2006-10-28
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by tommyr on 2006-10-28
I tried running 6.10 on my Macbook a few minutes ago. Last line in the mess on screen said:

17179570.172000 Kenel panic - Not syncing: VFS: unable to mount root FS on unknown - Block (8,1)

I tried Apic=debug and noapic to no avail. 
Got the same info as above. 

Anyone else seeing this problem? Older versions seem to load just fine and work great. I love Ubuntu when it works!

Any suggestions appreciated!

Tom

---

### Post by idn on 2006-10-28
Hey, this is a problem because you installed or updated your kernel and didnt update lilo. Grub would have normally done this for you automatically, but with grub you have to enter

```

sudo lilo -b /dev/sda

```

after each update to the kernel, quite annoying :) To fix this you have to boot up again with the live cd, then enter in a terminal when its booted up:

```


sudo su
mkdir /mnt/ubuntu
mount /dev/sda4 /mnt/ubuntu/
mount -t proc none /mnt/ubuntu/proc
mount -o bind /dev /mnt/ubuntu/dev
chroot /mnt/ubuntu /bin/bash

lilo -b /dev/sda
exit
umount /mnt/ubuntu/proc
umount /mnt/ubuntu/dev
umount /mnt/ubuntu

```

Reatart and everything should be ok, its happended to me a ew times

---

### Post by rdwtux on 2006-10-28
I've tried Edgy (6.10) on my Macbook both as a dual-boot and stand alone on a spare hard drive.  If your using a dual-boot you definately have to use lilo and make sure you update as idn said.  You also have to sync your MBR partition table with your GPT using the rEFIt menu.

Using Edgy with grub, i haven't seen a kernel panic yet.  Dual-booting with the lilo install 1 in 3 kernel panics if I don't add noapic to the boot line or lilo config.

---

### Post by tommyr on 2006-10-28
I'm just trying to run the LiveCD, it's not installed. 

Tom

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-10-28
move to PPC section...

---

### Post by tommyr on 2006-10-28
No, not move to PPC section, the Macbook is intel. 

Tom

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-10-28
> **tommyr said:**
> No, not move to PPC section, the Macbook is intel. 

Tom
But if you look in this forum, there are questions/problems regarding macbook too so maybe you will get a better help here.  But if you still want me to move back to where you posted it initially, I will...

---

### Post by tommyr on 2006-10-28
Do what you think is best, I'm just saying it doesn't make sense since the Macbooks are Intel but if that's where most of the posts go then so be it, I just don't get it personally...

Tom

---

### Post by idn on 2006-10-28
Did you manage to fix this? This shouldnt go in the PPC forum BTW. What do you mean by its not installed?

---

### Post by tommyr on 2006-10-28
I am trying to run it in live CD mode. Older versions work fine. Dapper works fine. 

Tom

---

### Post by vibestriton on 2006-10-28
```
boot=/dev/sda
compact
map=/boot/map
image=/vmlinuz
    initrd=/initrd.img
    append="lpj=10000000 quiet splash"
    root=/dev/sda1
    label=Ubuntu
    read-only
```

append lpj setting to fix kernel panics

---

### Post by tommyr on 2006-10-29
> **idn said:**
> Did you manage to fix this? This shouldnt go in the PPC forum BTW. What do you mean by its not installed?

Haven't fixed it yet, I'll wait and use Dapper for now. This LiveCD version won't run on a Macbook without all kinds of hassles. Dapper works, this don't..go figure....

Tom

---

### Post by rdwtux on 2006-10-29
> **tommyr said:**
> Haven't fixed it yet, I'll wait and use Dapper for now. This LiveCD version won't run on a Macbook without all kinds of hassles. Dapper works, this don't..go figure....

Tom

That's odd.  Both the Dapper and Edgy live cd's worked perfect on my Macbook.  I've installed from both cd's.  Running Edgy right now.

---

### Post by hajk on 2006-10-29
> **rdwtux said:**
> 
Using Edgy with grub, i haven't seen a kernel panic yet.  Dual-booting with the lilo install 1 in 3 kernel panics if I don't add noapic to the boot line or lilo config.

Add "lpj=8000000" (eight million) to the boot options if you have an 1.83GHz processor, or "lpj=10000000" (ten million) for a 2GHz processor, will solve the kernel panics...

---

