---
title: "how to install tiger on G3 with ubuntu"
date: 2007-10-05
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by marcozecca on 2007-10-05
Hi guys!
I have G3 mac, with Ubuntu 7.04 alrealdy installed and running right.
I want to install Tiger also,how can I do?Should I have to create a partition with any software before it?or the partition will be created automatically installing tiger via cd?

---

### Post by frog_pilot on 2007-10-05
If you want to install Tiger after ubuntu, it would be better to do it on a exclusive physical harddrive. The problem is, that the Tiger-Installer doesn't recognize other OSes.

Maybe one way could be - if your partition-scheme is apple-partition-map - to shrink your ubuntu-partitions to create unused-freespace on your harddrive. Unfortunately parted can't create hfs+-volumes, that's why you could start a Tiger-install with this freespace and try out if the Tiger-installer can use this freespace for Installation and leave your existing partitions as they are.

If one of these two suggestions work you have to reinstall yaboot/ or may be - much easier - to choose your ubuntu-Partition in open Firmware and edit /etc/yaboot.conf with a new entry for OSX and execute ybin - after it and everything works fine.

But I never tested one of these methods. Maybe it is impossible to install OS X after ubuntu on the same physical drive.

---

### Post by marcozecca on 2007-10-05
never tested?
has anyone other tested solution?
thaks anyway guys,...

---

### Post by frog_pilot on 2007-10-05
what about a backup of your existing ubuntu-installation with clonezilla?

After this you are free to test it :)

If you have second physical harddrive in your machine, it shouldn't be dangerous to perform your OS X -installation here. Otherwise backup your ubuntu try out... :popcorn:

---

### Post by marcozecca on 2007-10-06
ok so he fasted and simpliest way is via external hd?firewire or usb?what should I buy/do ?

---

### Post by marcozecca on 2007-10-06
ok so the fasted and simpliest way is via external hd?firewire or usb?what should I buy/do ?

---

### Post by frog_pilot on 2007-10-06
A firewire-Solution would be the best. Almost any mac can boot from a firewire-device. But be carful, because I red (I don't know where) that a b/w PowerMAC G3 lacks this ability. I think you can check this out on apples website.

btw: why don't you back up your system? then you can test it with your actual equipment.

---

### Post by marcozecca on 2007-10-21
hi!
today I tried to do this:
-I inserted tiger osx disk
-I restarted ubuntu
-I pressed all the key in the keyboard, imaging the right is C or something similar...
-I started osx tiger installer
-but during tiger installation, it doesn't find the hard disk where to install osx!!:confused:
what can I do?maybe should I erase ubuntu (in dos I used format c:) before installing osx?
remember that now I don't care of mantaining ubuntu, infact I planned to install tiger erasing ubuntu, and then reintall ubuntu!

---

### Post by frog_pilot on 2007-10-22
Insert the Tiger-install-CD. Hold the C-Key during startup and run the diskutility from the install-disk before starting the installation. Make sure that the whole drive will be reformatted for mac and the go to partitioning and preserve some free space on your hard-disk for the following ubuntu-installation. For OSX choose the filesystem "macintosh extended (Journaled)". You will need at least 5GB for a minimal Tiger-install.

After this start the Tiger-installer. It should work now.

---

### Post by marcozecca on 2007-10-22
thanks to all!I solved all my doubts and I got it!!I gained it!

and now how can I configure my mac to
-make me go directly to osx, and only choose to go to ubuntu (now it's the opposite!)...?:):):)

---

### Post by frog_pilot on 2007-10-22
Open your yaboot.conf. Add the line```
defaultos=macosx
```after this execute```
sudo ybin
```and OS X is your default.

---

### Post by marcozecca on 2007-10-24
and where is this yaboot.conf files?can I do it from terminal in macosx tiger??

---

### Post by frog_pilot on 2007-10-24
It is very important that you edit yaboot.conf from inside Ubuntu, otherwise you would make your Ubuntu inaccessible.

To edit the file execute ```
sudo gedit /etc/yaboot.conf
``` in a terminal.

Mine is looking like this:
```
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hdb2
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@1:
partition=3
root=/dev/hdb3
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/hda3

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
	label=old
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
	append="quiet splash"
```

Add the line
```
defaultos=macosx
``` beneath the line "macosx=/dev/<wherever it is>" 
((it's only in terms of lucidity, there is no technical reason to add the line on this special position))
save+close the file.

After this execute```
sudo ybin
```in a terminal.

You're done... :)

P.S.
see also [yaboot configuration]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/YabootConfigurationForMacintoshPowerPCsDualBoot")

---

### Post by marcozecca on 2007-10-25
ok thank you very much!all went ok!I'm very happy!:)

---

