---
title: "PowerMac G5 Install Problems"
date: 2007-05-10
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-10
So here is the situation.

I have a 1.8 powermac G5 that I want to install ubuntu (feisty) on.  I downloaded the appropriate cd and burned the iso on a disk.  I got to the installer but everytime I try to install, the computer freezes.  The computer gets past the ubuntu screen with the bar traveling back and forth but afterwards it freezes on a completely black screen with a "_" in the top left corner.  Any thoughts or known issues with PowerMac G5 installs?  Also, I got the computer when the system was first available in august 2004 (i think that was the year), so don't know if there are any problems with earlier models.  Any help / thoughts would be appreciated.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-11
Try the alternative CD to install in text mode. This is required sometimes for a few machines.

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-13
I just installed Feisty on my G5 using the alternate cd and text installer. Everything went great. Once the install was over, get to the screen where you can choose to boot from linux/gnu or cd. i push "l" and that send me through an unending cycle where this is what comes on my screen:

First Stage Ubuntu Bootstrap

Press l for GNU/Linux,
c for CDROM.

Stage 1 Boot:
Loading second stage bootstrap..._

Then there is a flashing folder icon in the middle of the screen, that changes to having a "?" in the middle of the screen to having the icon apple faces (finder's symbol)

Any thoughts might help. I am wondering if this is due to my partitions. I just used the guided partition on the ubuntu install and selected the entire disk.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-13
Argh okay sounds like yaboot config crapped out at the end of the installer.

Perhaps an easy fix is to do the install again, and at the end after the install is finished, but BEFORE rebooting, change to a different terminal (Cntrl+Alt+F1 of Ctrl+Alt+F2) and type

yabootconfig

or you may have to do 

sudo yabootconfig

and after that works, type this to be sure yaboot is written correctly to the boot partition:

ybin -v

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-14
So I went ahead and tried to configure the yaboot but anytime i try to do something in the new console before rebooting, i get a yaboot not found error.  I am gonna try a complete disk wipe using osx cd's disk utility. then reinstalling ubuntu.  should have the output by the morning

---

### Post by Auria on 2007-05-14
> **jmelizondo said:**
> So I went ahead and tried to configure the yaboot but anytime i try to do something in the new console before rebooting, i get a yaboot not found error.  I am gonna try a complete disk wipe using osx cd's disk utility. then reinstalling ubuntu.  should have the output by the morning

Actaully AFAIU the commands stmiller posted are to be run RIGHT AFTER an installation, if current installation is not working they wont work

---

### Post by Gen2ly on 2007-05-14
Yeh, you need yaboot, somehow it wasn't installed.  Shouldn't be necessary to start over though.

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-14
How do I ensure yaboot is installed.  I have tried multiple installs and I get the same problem with bootstrap loads.  Thanks for your help

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-14
sorry, also forgot to note that when i run the commands that stmiller wrote above that the system cannot find yaboot (above), so i have no idea what is going on with my system....:confused:

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-14
EDIT: disregard this response. A possible fix is later in this thread! (Post #18 )

--------------

You have to have a file /etc/yaboot.conf (or use yabootconfig to generate one)

and then run

sudo ybin -v

to write this to the boot partition.

And an above poster is correct: you don't have to reinstall to repair this. The other options to fix this are sort of advance, so the easy cop-out is to just run the install again and fix this BEFORE rebooting. 

or if you are feeling savvy:

You could boot a gentoo live ppc cd or the live ubuntu ppc cd and mount the root partition which is currently on the hard disk, make changes to /etc/yaboot.conf then point ybin to the mounted /etc/yaboot.conf to write that file to the boot partition. 

This is an example yaboot.conf, but each are machine specific. So this one WILL NOT work on your computer. But here is it, if this helps.

The critical line is this one, for instance:
device=/ht@0,f2000000/pci@5/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0:

which unfortunately is very machine specific. As are other lines concerning /dev/sda*. Running yabootconfig will generate everything for you at the end of the install before rebooting.

```
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda2
device=/ht@0,f2000000/pci@5/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0:
partition=3
root=/dev/sda3
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
enableofboot
enablenetboot
macosx=/dev/sda5
#defaultos=macosx

fgcolor=black
bgcolor=white

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/vmlinux
#	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
	label=old
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
#	initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
	append="quiet splash"

```

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-14
> **stmiller said:**
> You have to have a file /etc/yaboot.conf (or use yabootconfig to generate one)

and then run

sudo ybin -v

to write this to the boot partition.

And an above poster is correct: you don't have to reinstall to repair this. The other options to fix this are sort of advance, so the easy cop-out is to just run the install again and fix this BEFORE rebooting. 


Thanks for the help.  Sorry for all the trouble but I am new to linux.  problem is that i can't run yabootconfig with either method listed earlier so I can't generate the file.  So how do I create this file if the commands for yabootconfig (ie, yabootconfig or sudo yabootconfig in the new terminal) aren't working on my system?

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-15
What is the output when you try running yabootconfig?

Try 

sudo yabootconfig

Another possible solution is to just install with an Edgy disc, then you can dist-upgrade to Feisty.

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-18
Sorry for the delayed response.  Things got a little crazy at work for a few days.  So, I am gonna list out all the steps i took installing

So i booted the alternate cd and ran "install-powerpc64"

I did not configure a network (the computer is not hooked up to the net at the time of installation) and used the guided partition - entire disk for my partitions.  
It partitioned my drive as so:

[COLOR="Navy"][INDENT]partition #3 od scsi1 (0,0,0) (sda) as ext3
partition #4 of scsi1 (0,0,0) (sda) as swap[/INDENT][/COLOR]

Once the installer is done, this is the message on the screen:

[COLOR="Red"][INDENT](!!) Finish the installation[/INDENT][/COLOR]
[COLOR="Navy"][INDENT]Installation complete[/INDENT][/COLOR]
[INDENT]Installation is complete, so it is time to boot into your new system.  Make sure to remove the installation media (CD-ROM, floppies), so that you boot into the new system rather than restarting the installation[/INDENT]

At this point i push alt+control+F2 and that takes me to a screen:

[INDENT]Please press Enter to activate this console.[/INDENT]

I push enter and it takes me to this screen

[INDENT]BusyBox v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-3ubuntu33) Built in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.
~# [/INDENT]

Now i type in yabootconfig and the input looks like this

[INDENT]~# yabootconfig[/INDENT]

and the response is this

[INDENT]-sh: yabootconfig: not found
~# [/INDENT]

so then my  next input looks like this

[INDENT]~# sudo yabootconfig[/INDENT]

and i get

[INDENT]-sh: sude: not found[/INDENT]


thanks in advance for the help

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-18
Ah! Okay. Looks like yabootconfig is not on that disc as an executable. I'll have to investigate...

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-18
thanks for all your help.  looking forward to trying this thing out!:)

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-18
Okay let me poke around the install CD. Yabootconfig MUST be on there somewhere, as the installer itself would need to run it in the background as part of the install process. There must be a way to invoke it to run manually...

I had to create an /etc/yaboot.conf manually to make it work on my machine.

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-18
i am using the alternate install cd, per your reccommendation earlier  =)

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-18
Ok I have a possible fix for you and others where yaboot fails at the end of the install. Warning: your Powermac fans may come on full blast, as fan control is not enabled in this rescue mode for some reason. But do not worry: you machine will not be harmed. The fans at full blast is a built-in safety in the hardware.

OK here goes. How to repair a missing or corrupt yaboot:

Boot the alternative feisty PPC CD and type

rescue-powerpc64

at the boot prompt. (Press tab to see all boot options if you are curious)

detect keyboard: no

hostname is fine as detected, click continue

Root filesystem: pick /dev/sda3 (That's what worked on my system. Yours may be different.)
[if that doesn't work, choose 'GO BACK'
then select 'rescue mode' and pick another partition option. You can't hurt anything by trying a different one. It will only let you use the real root partition.]

Then select
Execute a shell in /dev/sda3 [or whatever it says root partition is]

then at the next screen type 

yabootconfig

and hit enter.

That should create a /etc/yaboot.conf file and write it to disk. Just hit 'ok' at every option [YES] if you aren't sure when it asks you about partitions.

That should complete and confirm the creation of a proper /etc/yaboot.conf

Then type 

ybin -v

and enter

just in case to make sure it is written to disk.

Then Ctrl+Alt+Del to reboot


Once you have booted in Ubuntu, you can edit your /etc/yaboot.conf to your likings, just make sure to run

sudo ybin -v

after editing to write the changes to the boot partition.

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-05-19
This might help.

I just installed xubuntu704 alternate cd on my powermacG5 sp 1.6Ghz, 2 sata drives, had this problem and needed the same fixups with all the ubuntu/ debian installs on th g5.

The problem is with the ofpath utility which converts /dev/sda2 terminology to
open firmware sd0:2 format, but for some reason does not do this correctly for the G5 sata configuration. 

Re running yabootconfig wil not fix it (I have verified that), yaboot.conf will still need editing.

The only way to fix it is to manually edit yaboot.config to replace all linux device names by the corresponding open firmware names. Below is a copy of the yabootconfig version, (simlar to the original installer version) and the edited version, (requires rerun of ybin to reconfigure the bootstrap). This applies to my configuration, but it illustrates the solution. 

In my case i have feisty at /dev/sda7 and a macosx at /dev/sdb3 with the linux bootstrap at /dev/sdb2, (2 drives increase problems for the installer).


Here is what I got when I ran yabootconfig from the installed feisty root.

```

## yaboot.conf generated by yabootconfig 1.0.8
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of: 
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda2
device=/disk@0:
partition=7
root=/dev/sda7
timeout=30
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	initrd-size=8192

```

Edited installer version that works:

```

###edited
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sdb2
ofboot=sd1:2
device=hd:
###/disk@0:
###partition=7
###root=/dev/sda7
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=sd1:3
###macosx=/dev/sdb3

image=/boot/vmlinux
root=/dev/sda7
	label=Lx
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
partition=7

###dont hide the action
###	append="quiet splash"

## the rest is irrelevant
image=halt
halt

```


If the OP could post a copy of yaboot.conf and the output of mac-fdisk -l
I could offer to correct the yaboot.conf.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-19
> **pxwpxw said:**
> This might help.

I just installed xubuntu704 alternate cd on my powermacG5 sp 1.6Ghz, 2 sata drives, had this problem and needed the same fixups with all the ubuntu/ debian installs on th g5.


The problem is that the line

device=/disk@0:

is hardware specific to each individual machine, as are the other /dev/sda* lines.

> 
If the OP could post a copy of yaboot.conf and the output of mac-fdisk -l
I could offer to correct the yaboot.conf.

And pxwpxw: this person cannot currently even boot into his Linux install.

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-19
Ok so i tried to install the yabootconfig file but I still get errors :(

I exectued the shell and I am getting this error (my typing in blue)

[INDENT]# [COLOR="Navy"]yabootconfig[/COLOR]
yaboot is the Linux loader for PowerPC.  yabootconfig sets up your system to boot direclty
from your hard disk, without the need for a boot cd, floppy or a network boot.
Install yaboot bootstrap on dev/sda2 to boot from /dev/sda3? [Yes] [COLOR="Navy"]ybin -v[/COLOR]
Create simple /etc/yaboot.conf without installing the bootstrap? [Yes] [COLOR="Navy"]yes[/COLOR]
Creating a simple /etc/yaboot.conf...
yabootconfig: Could not determine necessary information, aborting...
yabootconfig: Are you using chroot yabootconfig instead of yabootconfig --chroot?[/INDENT]:confused:

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-19
> **jmelizondo said:**
> Ok so i tried to install the yabootconfig file but I still get errors :(

I exectued the shell and I am getting this error (my typing in blue)

[INDENT]# [COLOR="Navy"]yabootconfig[/COLOR]
yaboot is the Linux loader for PowerPC.  yabootconfig sets up your system to boot direclty
from your hard disk, without the need for a boot cd, floppy or a network boot.
Install yaboot bootstrap on dev/sda2 to boot from /dev/sda3? [Yes] [COLOR="Navy"]ybin -v[/COLOR]
Create simple /etc/yaboot.conf without installing the bootstrap? [Yes] [COLOR="Navy"]yes[/COLOR]
Creating a simple /etc/yaboot.conf...
yabootconfig: Could not determine necessary information, aborting...
yabootconfig: Are you using chroot yabootconfig instead of yabootconfig --chroot?[/INDENT]:confused:

[Make sure you choose 
"Execute a shell in /dev/sda3 [or whatever it says root partition is]" from the step in my previous post.]


And at this point when running yabootconfig:

"Install yaboot bootstrap on dev/sda2 to boot from /dev/sda3? [Yes] "

Just hit Enter.

"Create simple /etc/yaboot.conf without installing the bootstrap? [Yes] "

Enter.

Creating a simple /etc/yaboot.conf...

should complete. 

Then when that is finished, type

ybin -v

and hit enter.

I tested this on my Powermac G5 machine to test, and it successfully created a new yaboot.conf and wrote the file to the boot partition. So hopefully this will work for you. Let me know...

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-19
ok, so i did that and it created the file, but when i reboot, i get that "First Stage Ubunut Bootstrap" cycle again that was happening earlier

also get that flashing question mark in the center of the screen

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-19
What did it say when you ran

ybin -v

? Were there any errors?

---

### Post by jmelizondo on 2007-05-19
I won't be able to get back to my computer until later tonight.  Will give you an output then.  Thanks for everything

---

### Post by jrlohr on 2007-05-19
> **pxwpxw said:**
> This might help.


```

## yaboot.conf generated by yabootconfig 1.0.8
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of: 
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda2
device=/disk@0:
partition=7
root=/dev/sda7
timeout=30
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	initrd-size=8192

```

Edited installer version that works:

```

###edited
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sdb2
ofboot=sd1:2
device=hd:
###/disk@0:
###partition=7
###root=/dev/sda7
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=sd1:3
###macosx=/dev/sdb3

image=/boot/vmlinux
root=/dev/sda7
	label=Lx
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
partition=7

###dont hide the action
###	append="quiet splash"

## the rest is irrelevant
image=halt
halt

```


If the OP could post a copy of yaboot.conf and the output of mac-fdisk -l
I could offer to correct the yaboot.conf.

Changing the 1 lineand adding the other for our G5 got it to boot correctly thanks

we changed 
boot=/dev/sda2
device=/disk@0:     -> device=hd:

and added the line

ofboot=sd0:2
and now it all works fine

---

### Post by kvapil on 2007-05-23
Ok so this works :)

I can confirm that my G5 is now up and running ubuntu.

I have also done some reading and as i understand it Yabootconfig does not work on the G5, so manuel editing of the yaboot.conf is necessary.

But remember, to update the yaboot.conf is not enough you have to run ybin -v to update the bootstrap partition with the new settings.

The last step proved to be a little tricky for me so i used the gentoo live cd to boot the machine and to edit the yaboot.conf this is more i guess because i like to use vi.

here the command to mount the hard drive is ex: mount /dev/ext3 /mnt/gentoo
this will place your yaboot.conf in /mnt/gentoo/etc/yaboot.conf

after editing the file i booted up on the alternative ubuntu cd starting in the rescue mode. This will after a while take you to "execute shell on root drive" sda3 in my case.

And now the ybin -v worked.

I hope this can help someone else as well.

If you have any questions please dont hesitate to ask.

/kvapil

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-05-23
jrlohr, kvapil

Thanks for the feedback.

All above, and anyone else interested:

I want to find why the problem/solution for my powermacg5 and the posts above does not seem to apply to all g5 with sata drives (or perhaps it does).
(i.e. in yaboot.conf, need to edit "device=  " and "ofboot=  ").

Could you please post the results for your G5  for these commands:
(change if necessary to suit your drive names)

```

sudo ofpath /dev/sda

sudo cat /proc/device-tree/aliases/hd;echo

sudo cat /proc/device-tree/aliases/sd0;echo

sudo find /proc/device-tree/ -name '*disk*'

sudo mac-fdisk -l /dev/sda

```

=====================================

Here is what I get, and some explanation.

```

$ sudo ofpath /dev/sda
/disk@0:
$ sudo ofpath /dev/sda2
/disk@0:2

```

This is the cause of the problem on this platform.
AFAIK the device /disk@0 is invalid in openfirmware on any applemac, its a default from ofpath when it gets lost. Unfortunately it is used to find the bootblock, and again to find yaboot in the boot partition.

The open firmware alias "hd" is commonly used by open firmware for the first boot disk, for ibook, powermac and probably others and can refer to sata or ata/ide drives with different full paths.

(see:  man bootstrap mkofboot ybin yaboot.conf)  

Aliases in /proc/device-tree/ , from openfirmware:
```

$ sudo cat /proc/device-tree/aliases/hd ;echo
/ht/pci@7/k2-sata-root/k2-sata@0/disk@0
$ sudo cat /proc/device-tree/aliases/sd0;echo
/ht/pci@7/k2-sata-root/k2-sata@0/disk@0

```


The full device paths are in /proc/device-tree/
```

$ sudo find /proc/device-tree/ -name '*disk*'
/proc/device-tree/ht@0,f2000000/pci@7/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@1/disk@0
/proc/device-tree/ht@0,f2000000/pci@7/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0
/proc/device-tree/ht@0,f2000000/pci@5/ata-6@d/disk
/proc/device-tree/ht@0,f2000000/pci@4/usb@b/hub@1/disk@3
/proc/device-tree/firewire-disk-mode
/proc/device-tree/packages/sbp2-disk
/proc/device-tree/packages/atapi-disk
/proc/device-tree/packages/ata-disk
/proc/device-tree/packages/disk-label
$ 

```

disk partitions: 
```

$ sudo mac-fdisk -l /dev/sda
/dev/sda
        #                    type name                  length   base      ( size )  system
/dev/sda1     Apple_partition_map Apple                     63 @ 1         ( 31.5k)  Partition map
/dev/sda2         Apple_Bootstrap ubootsda              262144 @ 64        (128.0M)  NewWorld bootblock
/dev/sda3               Apple_HFS Apple_HFS_Untitled_1  25126936 @ 262208    ( 12.0G)  HFS
/dev/sda4         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 dbroot              39062501 @ 25389144  ( 18.6G)  Linux native
/dev/sda5         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 swap                 5859376 @ 64451645  (  2.8G)  Linux swap
/dev/sda6         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 uspare              19531251 @ 70311021  (  9.3G)  Linux native
/dev/sda7         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 uxroot2             39062501 @ 89842272  ( 18.6G)  Linux native
/dev/sda8         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 uspare2             27396715 @ 128904773 ( 13.1G)  Linux native

Block size=512, Number of Blocks=156301488
DeviceType=0x0, DeviceId=0x0

```

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-05-23
**stmiller**

in an earlier post above you quoted from yaboot.conf
> 
device=/ht@0,f2000000/pci@5/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0:


Do you get this using
```

 sudo ofpath /dev/sda

```

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-23
> **pxwpxw said:**
> 
All above, and anyone else interested:

I want to find why the problem/solution for my powermacg5 and the posts above does not seem to apply to all g5 with sata drives (or perhaps it does).
(i.e. in yaboot.conf, need to edit "device=  " and "ofboot=  ").


Because that device line is machine specific. 

device=hd:

works- this defaults to the first device the open firmware sees. But this might not be the case for every machine. It's best to use the line and file generated by yabootconfig

Read here for good details about yaboot:

[http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/handbook/handbook-ppc.xml?part=1&chap=10#manual_yaboot](http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/handbook/handbook-ppc.xml?part=1&chap=10#manual_yaboot)

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-23
> **pxwpxw said:**
> **stmiller**

in an earlier post above you quoted from yaboot.conf


Do you get this using
```

 sudo ofpath /dev/sda

```

I got that from running 

yabootconfig

it generates that line. :)

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-05-23
Yes ok I hear what you are saying, but the point is that on this machine and apparenty on others,
yabootconfig and ofpath both generate

device=/disk@0:

which is invalid.

So what g5 have you got there?

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-23
Ah! Okay I see. Mine is a dual 2Ghz G5 (not dual core)

```
stmiller@stmiller:~$ cat /proc/cpuinfo
processor       : 0
cpu             : PPC970FX, altivec supported
clock           : 2000.000000MHz
revision        : 3.0 (pvr 003c 0300)

processor       : 1
cpu             : PPC970FX, altivec supported
clock           : 2000.000000MHz
revision        : 3.0 (pvr 003c 0300)

timebase        : 33333333
platform        : PowerMac
machine         : PowerMac7,3
motherboard     : PowerMac7,3 MacRISC4 Power Macintosh
detected as     : 336 (PowerMac G5)
pmac flags      : 00000000
L2 cache        : 512K unified
pmac-generation : NewWorld
stmiller@stmiller:~$
```

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-05-24
Now we are getting somewhere, thanks.

Mine is  single 1.6Ghz, earlier vintage:

```

admax@bigmac:~/test$ cat /proc/cpuinfo
processor       : 0
cpu             : PPC970, altivec supported
clock           : 1301.520000MHz
revision        : 2.2 (pvr 0039 0202)

timebase        : 33333333
platform        : PowerMac
machine         : PowerMac7,2
motherboard     : PowerMac7,2 MacRISC4 Power Macintosh
detected as     : 336 (PowerMac G5)
pmac flags      : 00000000
L2 cache        : 512K unified
pmac-generation : NewWorld
admax@bigmac:~/test$ 

```

And can you post what ofpath returns please.

```

admax@bigmac:~/test$ sudo ofpath /dev/sda
/disk@0:

```

(I dont know whether yabootconfig uses ofpath or some other code.)

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-24
```
stmiller@stmiller:~$ ofpath /dev/sda
/ht@0,f2000000/pci@5/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0:
```

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-05-24
Good thanks. I found there are 2 bugs, one in the Open  firmware device-tree for this machine
and a code problem in the ofpath script, fiddling with it now.
Its not a hardware problem its a firmware/software bug problem.
I cant understand how this version of ofpath could work without mods as your device tree looks the same as on this g5. Maybe its a different version.

$ dpkg -l yaboot
||/ Name           Version        Description
+++-==============-==============-============================================
ii  yaboot         1.3.13a-1ubunt Yet Another Bootloader

---

### Post by kvapil on 2007-05-25
Just to add to it my machine is also "Mine is single 1.6Ghz, earlier vintage".

And its still working great ;)

/kvapil

---

### Post by jrlohr on 2007-05-31
> **pxwpxw said:**
> 
Could you please post the results for your G5  for these commands:
(change if necessary to suit your drive names)

```

sudo ofpath /dev/sda

sudo cat /proc/device-tree/aliases/hd;echo

sudo cat /proc/device-tree/aliases/sd0;echo

sudo find /proc/device-tree/ -name '*disk*'

sudo mac-fdisk -l /dev/sda

```



Here is the system info.

```

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ cat /proc/cpuinfo 
processor       : 0
cpu             : PPC970, altivec supported
clock           : 1310.960000MHz
revision        : 2.2 (pvr 0039 0202)

processor       : 1
cpu             : PPC970, altivec supported
clock           : 1310.960000MHz
revision        : 2.2 (pvr 0039 0202)

timebase        : 33333333
platform        : PowerMac
machine         : PowerMac7,2
motherboard     : PowerMac7,2 MacRISC4 Power Macintosh
detected as     : 336 (PowerMac G5)
pmac flags      : 00000000
L2 cache        : 512K unified
pmac-generation : NewWorld

```

I am woking with several G5 machines that where all purchesed at the same time and the system info seems to be that same on all of them.

Here are the rest of the commands.

```

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo ofpath /dev/sda
/disk@0:

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo cat /proc/device-tree/aliases/hd;echo
/ht/pci@7/k2-sata-root/k2-sata@0/disk@0

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo cat /proc/device-tree/aliases/sd0;echo
/ht/pci@7/k2-sata-root/k2-sata@0/disk@0

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo find /proc/device-tree/ -name '*disk*'
/proc/device-tree/ht@0,f2000000/pci@7/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@1/disk@0
/proc/device-tree/ht@0,f2000000/pci@7/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0
/proc/device-tree/ht@0,f2000000/pci@5/ata-6@d/disk
/proc/device-tree/firewire-disk-mode
/proc/device-tree/packages/sbp2-disk
/proc/device-tree/packages/atapi-disk
/proc/device-tree/packages/ata-disk
/proc/device-tree/packages/disk-label

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mac-fdisk -l /dev/sda
/dev/sda
        #                    type name                  length   base      ( size )  system
/dev/sda1     Apple_partition_map Apple                     63 @ 1         ( 31.5k)  Partition map
/dev/sda2         Apple_Bootstrap untitled                1954 @ 64        (977.0k)  NewWorld bootblock
/dev/sda3         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 untitled           314251954 @ 2018      (149.8G)  Linux native
/dev/sda4         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 swap                 5919084 @ 314253972 (  2.8G)  Linux swap

Block size=512, Number of Blocks=320173056
DeviceType=0x0, DeviceId=0x0

```

---

### Post by jrlohr on 2007-05-31
OK I have another problem now. When i try to dual boot OSX and Ubuntu I can not seem to get yaboot to work once OSX is installed. I have tried these orders of install and what i did. I start with a completely clean HD each time.

1. OSX(10.4) then Ubuntu(tried both 6 and 7)
	   a) Install OSX reboot OSX works.
	   b) Reboot into Ubuntu live CD resize partition 
	   c) install Ubuntu
	   d) fix yaboot.conf and run ybin
	   e) reboot and no boot loader, only boots into OSX
	   f) reboot into live CD to check everything and re-run yaboot installer 
	   g) reboot and still no bootloader, only OSX
and here is the partition
```

/dev/sda
        #                    type name                  length   base      ( size )  system
/dev/sda1     Apple_partition_map Apple                     63 @ 1         ( 31.5k)  Partition map
/dev/sda2         Apple_Bootstrap untitled                1954 @ 217161793 (977.0k)  NewWorld bootblock
/dev/sda3               Apple_HFS Apple_HFS_Untitled_1 216899585 @ 262208    (103.4G)  HFS
/dev/sda4         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 untitled            98763672 @ 217163747 ( 47.1G)  Linux native
/dev/sda5         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 swap                 4245637 @ 315927419 (  2.0G)  Linux swap
/dev/sda6              Apple_Free Extra                 262144 @ 64        (128.0M)  Free space

Block size=512, Number of Blocks=320173056
DeviceType=0x0, DeviceId=0x0

```
2. Ubuntu then OSX
	   a) boot to live CD and partition drive into 2 parts
	   b) install Ubuntu
	   c) fix yaboot.conf run ybin and reboot
	   d) got bootloader and Ubuntu loads fine 
	   e) install OSX and reboot, bootloader is gone and only boots into OSX
	   f) reboot into live CD and check fdisk and the file system every thing is there and seems ok so re-run yaboot installer and fix yaboot.conf
	   g) reboot, still no boot loader so I completely wipe all partitions except OSX and reinstall Ubuntu
	   h) fix yaboot.conf, run ybin and reboot but still no bootloader and only boots into OSX.

And I have tried several different way of installing but every time the results are the same, once OSX is installed I cant seem to get the bootloader working.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-06-01
> **jrlohr said:**
> 

1. OSX(10.4) then Ubuntu(tried both 6 and 7)
	   a) Install OSX reboot OSX works.
	   b) Reboot into Ubuntu live CD resize partition 
	   

You don't need to do this. When first install OS X, at the start of the install (before beginning) click the top of the menu bar and access the disc utility. There you can create two partitions. One for OS X, and one for Ubuntu. Leave the ubuntu one as unformatted.

Then install OS X as usual. Then run the ubuntu installer, and it will automagically look to install in that free space.

---

### Post by jrlohr on 2007-06-01
> **stmiller said:**
> You don't need to do this. When first install OS X, at the start of the install (before beginning) click the top of the menu bar and access the disc utility. There you can create two partitions. One for OS X, and one for Ubuntu. Leave the ubuntu one as unformatted.

Then install OS X as usual. Then run the ubuntu installer, and it will automagically look to install in that free space.

I have tried that but to no end i get the same results no bootloader.

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-06-01
**jrlohr**

> 
I am woking with several G5 machines that where all purchesed at the same time and the system info seems to be that same on all of them.

Here are the rest of the commands.


The results confirm the problem is exactly as I suspected. I need to see the yaboot.conf that gets written to the boot partition by ybin.

You can do this from macosx by mounting the boot partition in macosx, using a terminal, and opening yaboot.conf in textedit (that is, if yaboot.conf got wrritten at all). 

I just need to check the procedure, will post shortly.

---

### Post by jrlohr on 2007-06-01
> **pxwpxw said:**
> **jrlohr**



The results confirm the problem is exactly as I suspected. I need to see the yaboot.conf that gets written to the boot partition by ybin.


Here it is

```

boot=/dev/sda2
device=hd:
ofboot=sd0:2
partition=4
root=/dev/sda4
timeout=200
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/sda3

image=/boot/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
        label=old
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
        append="quiet splash"

```

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-06-01
**jrlohr**

I see you have 2 sata drives, I am assuming your bootstrap partition stays as shown

/dev/sda2    Apple_Bootstrap untitled    1954 @ 64   (977.0k)  NewWorld bootblock

 Linnux = OpenFirmware = Macosx
 /dev/sda2 = sd0:2 = /dev/disk0s2

Open a new terminal.
When you have finished, keep terminal open and Save Text As a file. Open in textedit.

Post the whole text. 
Example results included below. Commands bold.


```

Last login: Tue May 29 18:13:26 on ttyp1
Welcome to Darwin!
mac03:~ admax$ 
mac03:~ admax$ pwd
/Users/admax

mac03:~ admax$

mac03:~ admax$ **nvram boot-device**
boot-device     hd:2,\\:tbxi

mac03:~ admax$ **sudo pdisk -l /dev/disk0**

Partition map (with 512 byte blocks) on '/dev/disk0'
 #:                type name                     length   base      ( size )
 1: Apple_partition_map Apple                        63 @ 1        
 2:     Apple_Bootstrap bootstrap2a           1954 @ 64       
 3: ####(edited and fudged )#########

mac03:~ admax$ **mkdir uboot1**

mac03:~ admax$ **sudo mount -t hfs /dev/disk0s2 uboot1**

mac03:~ admax$ **ls -l uboot1**
total 312
-rwxr-xr-x   1 admax  admax    3008 May 24 13:56 ofboot.b
-rwxr-xr-x   1 admax  admax  153124 May 24 13:56 yaboot
-rwxr-xr-x   1 admax  admax    1207 May 29 01:27 yaboot.conf

mac03:~ admax$ **cat uboot1/yaboot.conf**

## your yaboot.conf displayed

## unmount the boot partition

mac03:~ admax$ **sudo umount uboot1**
 

```

**Save the terminal text.**

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-06-01
Didn't see your post, reading it now, think it might be tthe root=   need to think.
Meanwhile, check out procedure, handy for direct fix.

 Please run from macosx: 
```

pdisk -l

```

And post.
This will list both drives. Your yaboot.conf is not consistent with your previous results
 - /dev/sda3 was your root, and your macos was not on /dev/sda.

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-06-01
Anything more?

---

### Post by jrlohr on 2007-06-01
> **pxwpxw said:**
> **jrlohr**

I see you have 2 sata drives,


I only have 1 sata drive

Well I did a new install starting with OSX then Ubuntu and here are the results

```

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo su
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# fdisk -l /dev/sda
/dev/sda
        #                    type name                  length   base      ( size )  system
/dev/sda1     Apple_partition_map Apple                     63 @ 1         ( 31.5k)  Partition map
/dev/sda2         Apple_Bootstrap untitled                1954 @ 160086592 (977.0k)  NewWorld bootblock
/dev/sda3               Apple_HFS Apple_HFS_Untitled_4 159824384 @ 262208    ( 76.2G)  HFS
/dev/sda4         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 untitled           154166016 @ 160088546 ( 73.5G)  Linux native
/dev/sda5         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 swap                 5918494 @ 314254562 (  2.8G)  Linux swap
/dev/sda6              Apple_Free Extra                 262144 @ 64        (128.0M)  Free space

Block size=512, Number of Blocks=320173056
DeviceType=0x0, DeviceId=0x0

root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# mount /dev/sda4 /mnt
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# mount -o bind /dev /mnt/dev
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# mount -t proc none /mnt/proc
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# chroot /mnt
root@ubuntu:/# vim /etc/yaboot.conf 

```

yaboot.conf file
```

## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda2
##device=/disk@0: original
device=hd:
##added
ofboot=sd0:2
##end added
partition=4
root=/dev/sda4
timeout=200
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/sda3

image=/boot/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
        label=old
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
        append="quiet splash"

```

next steps

```

root@ubuntu:/# ybin -v
ybin: Finding OpenFirmware device path to `/dev/sda3'...
ybin: Installing first stage bootstrap /usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot onto /dev/sda2...
ybin: Installing primary bootstrap /usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot onto /dev/sda2...
ybin: Installing /etc/yaboot.conf onto /dev/sda2...
ybin: Setting attributes on ofboot...
ybin: Setting attributes on yaboot...
ybin: Setting attributes on yaboot.conf...
ybin: Blessing /dev/sda2 with Holy Penguin Pee...
ybin: Updating OpenFirmware boot-device variable in nvram...
root@ubuntu:/# exit
exit
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# umount /mnt/{dev,proc}
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# umount /mnt

```

now going to check /dev/sda2
```

root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# mount /dev/sda2 /mnt
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# ls /mnt
ofboot.b  yaboot  yaboot.conf
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# cat /mnt/yaboot.conf 
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda2
##device=/disk@0: original
device=hd:
##added
ofboot=sd0:2
##end added
partition=4
root=/dev/sda4
timeout=200
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/sda3

image=/boot/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
        label=old
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
        append="quiet splash"
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# umount /mnt
root@ubuntu:/home/ubuntu# exit
exit
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 

```

And still I dont not get a bootloader on startup it goes stright into OSX.

---

### Post by jrlohr on 2007-06-01
and here is the nvram from OSX

```

Computer:~ student$   nvram boot-device

boot-device     first-boot/@0:3,\\:tbxi

Computer:~ student$ 


```

---

### Post by jrlohr on 2007-06-01
Well I got both OSX and Ubuntu working, after looking at the nvram in OSX it was still set to boot from sda3 which was OSX so I changed it to sda2 which yaboot did not seem to do and now it all works.
             **old**                     ->                           **new**
boot-device     first-boot/@0:3,\\:tbxi  ->  boot-device     first-boot/@0:2,\\:tbxi

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2007-06-02
**jrlohr**

Well thats a new one for me, thanks for your good info. 
Apparently ybin failed to reset the boot-device, dont know why. Possibly needed to run mkofboot.

I was reading the wrong partition table when commenting about yaboot.conf being inconsistent.

Also thought you had  2 sata from the listing
/proc/device-tree/ht@0,f2000000/pci@7/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@1/disk@0
/proc/device-tree/ht@0,f2000000/pci@7/k2-sata-root@c/k2-sata@0/disk@0


Live and learn.:o

---

