---
title: "Ubuntu 6.10 Live CD stops at loading screen"
date: 2007-03-06
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by dagosta2010 on 2007-03-06
Hi
I am trying to run the Ubuntu 6.10 on my older iMac G3, 600MHz, but all I get to is the screen that says Ubuntu and a loading bar, then I get a completely dark, blank screen.  From the sound of the CD drive, the CD sounds like it is working, but nothing shows up on the screen, and If I wait a few minutes, I hear the start up sounds of Ubuntu that are like durms and animals, then it just does nothing after that.  What is happening and how exactly do I fix it?

~Joe~

---

### Post by jazzman on 2007-03-06
Try This:


1. Boot up live CD holding down the C until the screen goes black and you hear the cd running. In your post you were having problems booting from the CD. I had a defective keyboard the first time I had this problem. Try switching keyboards if possible. (By the way, I'm using both a windows keyboard and mouse on my imac). I used a CD-RW disc that I recorded in Windows and finalized and didn't have any problems.)
2. At prompt type: live-powerpc
3. After loading everything the screen goes blank and you hear the CD running for about 2 - 3 minutes before you hear it stop,
4. Press CRTL-ALT-F1. This brings up the command line.
5. Now we need to edit the Xorg.conf file. Type: sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
6. Add a "#" at the line that says LOAD DRI. This keeps it from loading.
6a. Go to area near the bottom under "Monitor" and adjust the HorizSync to 60 and VertRefresh to75-117 respectively.
7. Go to the the area (towards the bottom of the file) where the default Depth is and change it from 24 to 16.

Good Luck! - Jazz
8. Save and exit out of nano.
9. Type: sudo killall -HUP gdm
10. This will kill and restart the GUI.
11. You will get a screen resolution of 800 x 600 with 16 color depth.
12. I then hit the install icon and away we went! It took about 45 minutes to go through the whole process but it worked.
13. After you reboot and log in use Synaptic to load the ubuntu-desktop. This will load up Gnome. I use Xfce mostly but use Gnome because the tools are better.
14. I then loaded Automatix. (See the HowTo section, top sticky).
15. So far no problems other than I have the original hard drive and I don't have a lot of breathing room (too many files).
16. I found that the CUPS program in Gnome was much easier to use when setting up a printer.

Here is the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
# path to defoma fonts
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "i2c"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
# Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "type1"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc104"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Device" "/dev/wacom" # Change to
# /dev/input/event
# for USB
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/wacom" # Change to
# /dev/input/event
# for USB
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/wacom" # Change to
# /dev/input/event
# for USB
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. 3D Rage Pro 215GP"
Driver "ati"
BusID "PCI:0:18:0"
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 60
VertRefresh 75-117
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies, Inc. 3D Rage Pro 215GP"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 16
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Good Luck!--Jazzman

---

### Post by jazzman on 2007-03-06
Sorry...

Ignore the Good Luck - Jazz in the middle of the text. Got typing too fast!

The rest works great  I've used this on G3 233mhz, 333mhz, 500mhz.

Shouldn't be a problem!

---

### Post by dagosta2010 on 2007-03-06
Well, i did exactly what you said for the CTL-ALT-F1, then i typed in what you said I should.  Then, the screen had a white bar on the top that said the file name, then at the very bottom had all of the codes I could type in.  Although, there was no text anywhere in middle of that.  Does that mean that I have to type the entire file and make the changes manually?
Thanks

~Joe~

---

### Post by linear on 2007-03-06
> **dagosta2010 said:**
> Although, there was no text anywhere in middle of that.

It usually means you didn't type the file path and name exactly as specified. Remember that Linux is case-sensitive.

So when you type: **sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf**, make sure everything is spelled correctly and that you have a capital "X" in X11.

---

### Post by Niels Langendorff on 2007-03-07
I have the same problem with ubuntu 6.06 on a iMac G3 333 Mhz. I made the modifications as described above to my xorg.conf, the ubuntu startup screen is showed, but I got now the following errors:

There was an error starting the GNOME settings deamon. 

some lines

The last error message was:

System exception IDL:omg.org//CORBA/COMM_FAILURE:1.0

Any ideas for fixing this problem. The installer screen is never shown

I found the problem, it has something to do with the bonobo server and setting the hwclock

---

### Post by dagosta2010 on 2007-03-07
Thanks so so so much!!! It worked and I am forever grateful!!! WOO!

---

