---
title: "6.10 won't install"
date: 2007-03-15
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by Cabana on 2007-03-15
I'm trying to install Ubuntu 6.10 on an 800MHz PowerMac G4. I'm able to boot from the CD, and it brings up a command prompt, with options such as 'live,' 'live-powerpc,' etc. The problem is when I select any option, I get a message that a kernel is loading, then the white screen flashes for a second, but then I get a black screen that doesn't change. The CD seems to be in use, but nothing is happening. Any ideas?

---

### Post by grazie on 2007-03-15
Have you tried the check option at the boot: prompt yet?

---

### Post by Cabana on 2007-03-15
Looks like the disk images are messed up. I run a verification on the ISO and it tells me:

[B]Invalid number of allocation blocks
The volume  needs to be repaired.

Error: The underlying task reported failure on exit


1 HFS volume checked
	Volume needs repair
[/B]
Repair doesn't work either, and gives me this message:

[B]Checking HFS volume.
Invalid number of allocation blocks
The volume  needs to be repaired.

Error: The underlying task reported failure on exit


1 HFS volume checked
	1 volume could not be repaired because of an error[/B]


I've downloaded the ISO several times and the result is always the same.

---

### Post by jjkiesch on 2007-04-01
i'm having this same problem.

i can only think of two things. maybe it doesn't like that i'm trying to mount a ppc disk image because i'm on intel. or i also read somewhere that iso files have to be downloaded in safari instead of firefix because it will try and change the file format to text.

i'm new to this stuff and just happened to find this post via google, so any help would be appreciated.

---

