---
title: "G4 powerbook video nightmare"
date: 2007-01-21
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by soundman13 on 2007-01-21
I've just been installing ubuntu on my G4 Powerbook - booted from the live cd fine, got it booting in OSX, OS9 & Ubuntu fine.

Now that Ubuntu is installed (was fine running from cd) the video is screwed.

The display is ghosted 3 times with an interlace type noise across the screen, I tried altering the screen resolution using the system menu - no change.....i then managed to install the recommended system updates - on system reboot, the screen now goes white - then kind of clouds into grey & displays nothing else....Ubuntu boots fine & I can log in - but I see absolutely nothing!!!

How on earth can I fix this now?

I'm new to Linux but not Mac...I have read on these forums that some people have altered settings with a terminal window....how can I do this if I can see nothing?

Any help would be greatly appreciated as I haven't a clue how to sort this out.

Thanks

Tom

---

### Post by karamba_kid on 2007-01-21
[http://www.google.com/search?q=G4+powerbook+xorg.conf&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8](http://www.google.com/search?q=G4+powerbook+xorg.conf&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8)

Change the settings in your xorg.conf file, backup this file first though.

---

### Post by soundman13 on 2007-01-21
Thanks for the quick reply - but like I said I'm new to this.

Firstly how do I access the xorg.conf file (whatever & wherever it is).

Secondly - how can I access it if I can't see anything?

Can I get to it through command line at the boot prompt? - if so please tell me how. (I can still see the display at this point)

---

### Post by karamba_kid on 2007-01-21
You're going to want to open up a terminal on your computer. When X has failed on me in the past I will use a terminal from the text login after the kernel boots ( I open one up with Ctrl + Alt + F1or F2, F3 , etc... until F7 and above where X was designated to run on). From there one can login (I don't have a mac so I don't know if this differs at all on your machine)    Then you login with your username password and if all goes well you can do this. 

Look at this file first.  Use the ls with -l  flag for a long list command like this.

aj@arbutus:~$ ls -l /etc/X11/xorg.conf
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 4350 2007-01-04 23:35 /etc/X11/xorg.conf

as you can see if your permissions are set like mine than you can read this file without needing root access just to check it but to make changes your going to need to use sudo to edit it with nano, vi, emacs whichever one.

So I would just open this file 

aj@arbutus:~$ nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

If I was going to make changes to this file I would use

aj@arbutus:~$ sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

enter the password and then one can write to it.

Hope i could be of some help. good luck getting it working

---

### Post by soundman13 on 2007-01-21
Well I am now totally confused:roll: 

I booted from the cd again - display worked fine as before. While booted I opened the xorg.conf file on the cd - nothing saved obviously.

Booted again from the hard disk - still greyed out screen again...tried switching to terminal...still grey screen.

Booted from cd again - fuzzy screen!!!

Then bit the bullet & installed Ubuntu again from scratch.

Booted into Ubuntu - it's now fine with no issues.

WTF was all that about?

---

### Post by karamba_kid on 2007-01-21
I noticed you said the liveCD was working so you could also do all this editing from a livecd you would just need to manually mount the drive.  Which may be a little extra work for somebody who is new.  But helpful to know how to do in some cases.

either way 
checking the liveCD's /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to see how it's setup could be a good start.

Also don't forget 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

I have also had some luck sometimes running that dpgk-reconfigure script when I wanted to reset it to how it was when installed

---

### Post by karamba_kid on 2007-01-21
Glad you have it working :) I guess the first install just went bad.

---

