---
title: "7.10 does not boot-up after upgrade from 7.04"
date: 2007-12-07
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by umwelt on 2007-12-07
Hi

I have just upgraded my PPC/Ubuntu 7.04 install (fully updated) to 7.10 and now when the Ubuntu splash screen appears the progress bar starts and then nothing.

Eventually I get to the busybox shell. At that point if I do

modprobe ide_core
exit

the system boots but then nothing really works (FireFox wont open and I get error messages about failed services starting up)


Machine spec: 
IMAC G3600 Mega Hertz
DVD Rom
RJ45 network socket
256 MB Rom
30 GB HD 

I'm NOT a Linux guru - just an ordinary user - so any simply solutions would be much appreciated.

So far, I've been a bit unhappy with the experience as I'd hoped it would be a bit more stable than Windows.

Tony

---

### Post by Auria on 2007-12-07
> **umwelt said:**
> 
I'm NOT a Linux guru - just an ordinary user - so any simply solutions would be much appreciated.

So far, I've been a bit unhappy with the experience as I'd hoped it would be a bit more stable than Windows.

Tony

Unfortunately the PPC is no more officially supported so i think if you want stablity it may not be the right system for that machine :( (canonical won't fix ppc bugs anymore and the community doesn't seem too get too involve at coding - and i can't blame them since i couldn't myself - but that unfortnately gives important bugs)

check the wiki page for PPC issues, it gives rather good information for gutsy on PPC

---

### Post by umwelt on 2007-12-07
> **Auria said:**
> Unfortunately the PPC is no more officially supported so i think if you want stablity it may not be the right system for that machine :( (canonical won't fix ppc bugs anymore and the community doesn't seem too get too involve at coding - and i can't blame them since i couldn't myself - but that unfortnately gives important bugs)

check the wiki page for PPC issues, it gives rather good information for gutsy on PPC

is there anyway I can downgrade back to 7.04 (the last stable environment)?

---

### Post by Auria on 2007-12-07
I don't believe there is any other way than backing up your files and installing from a 7.04 CD

---

### Post by tuebinger on 2007-12-08
I had this same problem.  I  reinstalled Ubuntu 7.04 from the CD.  I was so mad because it took like 5 hours to upgrade.   I guess there's only so far you can push these old machines.

---

