---
title: "6.06 on PowerMac 7500"
date: 2006-10-10
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by cubeeggs on 2006-10-10
I'm trying to get a 6.06 CD booting on a PowerMac 7500 with 464 MB of memory, a 500 MHz Sonnet G3 upgrade, a USB 1 card, a 100 Mb/sec ethernet card and a 9 GB hard drive. I found the Installation/OldWorldMac page and tryed to get the CD running using the "How to Try a Live CD With an Old World Mac" instructions but I found out the layout on the 6.06 CD is too different to work with the instructions. Is there a way to get a 6.06 CD running on this PowerMac or do I have to make a 5.10 CD?

---

### Post by Jeremy23 on 2006-10-10
Just checking the obvious here...is it a Mac PPC architecture CD? Does the Alternate install CD work?

---

### Post by cubeeggs on 2006-10-10
Yes, it's a PPC CD. It hangs during boot and says, "Begin: Waiting for root file system... ...". I didn't try the alternate CD.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-10-10
You could follow the old world instructions with the 5.0whatever disc and then apt-get dist-upgrade to 6.x.

---

### Post by dualusbibook on 2006-10-10
You can definately install ubuntu 6.06 on a 7500 updated with a G3 card.  I setup the 6.06 server package a few weeks ago to test, I gave up dealing with YDL.  I'm on a 7600 w/ G3.  If you follow the instructions it should work.  Now if only I could get it working on a 6100 w/G3.

I'm away from the server tonight but I can take a look tomorrow and let you know what changes I did to get the system to work.  My notes will tell me if I did anything different.

---

### Post by cubeeggs on 2006-10-11
Does the L2 cache on the card work properly?

---

### Post by cubeeggs on 2006-10-11
Also, do I really need the system restore disc? I don't have that for this computer. I have a Mac OS 9.1 disc.

---

### Post by dualusbibook on 2006-10-24
I'm Back.  After looking at my notes I did nothing special to get the system working.

Yes the L2 cache does work.  Well I will speak only to the Newer G3 card.

You don't need the system restore disc.  What it is basically saying is you need a disc or anything with a bootable system + formating tools.  Mac OS 9.1 will work provided it isn't a system specific disc.

If it won't boot your system try downloading Apple's 7.5.3 OS (free) and use it.  The Mac OS foot print will be significantly smaller.  If hard drive space is an issue.

Let us know when you have successfully installed.

---

### Post by dagnabit dang doohickey on 2006-10-24
> **cubeeggs said:**
> Yes, it's a PPC CD. It hangs during boot and says, "Begin: Waiting for root file system... ...". I didn't try the alternate CD.

This may be no help at all, but I installed OS X Panther on a PM8500 once, and while the install wasn't a problem, booting after the install was hit or miss. The system gave me the same "waiting for root file system" message. I found out that this may be due to an issue with the internal SCSI bus on some oldworld Macs. The 2x-4x Apple CD players that came with these Macs could also be a problem, but in my situation I disconnected the CD player(after install), yet I continued to get the message. If there is some way you can connect your drive to the external bus, you might want to give that a shot. Also, giving the Cuda button a push might not be a bad idea.

[http://www.macgurus.com/products/motherboards/mbppc75-7600.php]("http://www.macgurus.com/products/motherboards/mbppc75-7600.php")

---

