---
title: "6.1 ppc cd lacks an installer?"
date: 2007-01-25
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by jimfred on 2007-01-25
I can't believe this is possible, but I have downloaded and burned the 6.1 ppc cd twice now, and neither of them seems bootable, and I can't find an installer on either of them.  I have an AGP G4 tower with 640 mg ram, and superdrive.

I realize I must be overlooking something brain-dead obvious.  Any help?

Jim

---

### Post by grazie on 2007-01-25
Most problems of this sort are caused by a bad download and/or a bad image burn. Did you check the md5 sum after download? If that's good, burn the iso image at a slow speed. I still regularly do burns at x4 and go to make a cup of tea. Best not to use the machine for other tasks at the same time either. If you follow these steps, your chances of booting will greatly improve. If it does boot, it's well worth verifying the cd on the menu options, before attempting to install. If you're still having trouble, it is most likely a cd media or hardware problem.

---

### Post by jimfred on 2007-01-25
These are good suggestions, but the iso itself, even prior to burning, does not seem to contain an installer ????!!!  

That being said, I can't believe that is true - I must be overlooking it.  Can someone tell me the path to installer, and the name of it, on the ppc 6.1 cd?  

Jim

---

### Post by linear on 2007-01-25
I don't think you're going to see a recognizable installer unless you boot the CD - LiveCD's typically contain a compressed file system, which is expanded into RAM when the CD is booted.

---

### Post by jimfred on 2007-01-25
Aaahhh............    That explains it -  now I just need to figure out why it won't boot from the CD - thank you

---

### Post by brackishboy on 2007-01-25
Have you tried holding 'c' as it boots?

---

