---
title: "powerbook g4 video dead - live edgy"
date: 2006-11-14
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by ###OCT### on 2006-11-14
Hi
I'm sorry if this has been answered before, but I couldnt find any helpfull info here.
I downloaded edgy two days ago, and the first livecd boot didnt work, got two grey stripes on the screen after the splash. 
the live-nosplash-powerpc option solved that, and it booted fine, ubuntu with sound and wireless internet working. 
After finding that I'd have to backup some data from my HD, I rebooted in OS X to do that, and was  
never able to boot from the livecd again. 
I tried all of the yaboot options to no effect- the same two stripes appearing on the screen. I tried video=ofonly, but all I get is a garbled Ubuntu logo (purple) and after that nothing at all. The startup chime works, but no video... 
After searching for a while I found some options for yaboot, tried using video=radeon:1280x854@60, to no effect...
 but since I'd like to boot from liveCD and use the GUI installer, I cant edit the image's yaboot.conf
I zapped the PRAM thinking "how could it work one time and not anymore, since I didnt install anything to begin with, it must be saving something somewhere..." but that didnt work either...
Are there any options that I should know? is yaboot saving some .conf file somewhere even if I just ran it once and rebooted?
Any help would be MUCH apreciated.

System details:
Powerbook G4 1ghz, last titanium PB
Radeon 9200 64 mb 

PS- I'd really like to use Edgy since it works with my firewire disk and I want to install it there, I've tried using dapper but it doesnt work well with my firewire hd 
.
Thanks

---

### Post by ###OCT### on 2006-11-14
Anyone? I really need to work with scribus tonight.....
Please, anything... even if you say "forgetaboutit"!

---

### Post by steve_waters on 2006-11-15
Sorry to cut into your thread, but we may have the same issue.:twisted: 

I am getting very similar things, G4 laptop, I downloaded last night.

I can boot I get the Kubuntu splash and the progress bar, then Kubuntu splash disappears and I get dropped to command line. 

Thanks

---

### Post by chrluc on 2006-12-17
I guess I have to cut in too... just found your thread, and i have the EXACT same problem!
have you had any luck at all with this problem? i know there are a few out there that have our machine and have ubuntu running on it just fine. I dont know what the secret is.

---

### Post by chrluc on 2006-12-17
wow over 200 views and nobody has even a word of advice?

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-12-18
Don't be afraid of the command line install using a text-based Edgy "alternate" disk.  It might not be pretty while installing, but all the gui goodness should be there after a reboot. :)

At least it might get you past the weird graphics initially. - worst case might be you'd have to reconfigure your xorg.conf file - see how the alternate cd goes for you...

---

### Post by chrluc on 2006-12-18
i did use the alternate install cd and it installed, however, when it reboots i cant see anything, i hear the drum at the beginning when ubunut starts up, but the screen is black....

---

### Post by chrluc on 2006-12-18
ok new wierdness to throw in to the mix.. the live cd will once in a wile (maybe every 5 to 10 times) boot and I will be able to see video (I say video, meaning I can see the screen and it is not  just black) at that point i have been able to go in and in terminal edit my xorg.conf file i have used this file here as will as the one Edgy itself creates both with a black screen as a result. 

well here is the latest I have tried and he claims to have the same machine I do.

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
	
	FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"

EndSection

Section "Module"
#	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"se"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:lwin_switch,lv3:lwin_switch,lv3:lwin_switch,lv3:lwin_switch,lv3:lwin_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
#	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"5 4"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice" 
	Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad" 
	Driver "synaptics" 
	Option "SendCoreEvents" "true" 
	Option "Device" "/dev/psaux" 
	Option "Protocol" "auto-dev" 
	Option "SHMConfig" "true" 
	Option "MinSpeed" "0.30" 
	Option "MaxSpeed" "1.10" 
	Option "EdgeMotionMinSpeed" "200" 
	Option "EdgeMotionMaxSpeed" "200" 
	Option "FastTaps" "1" 
	Option "MaxTapTime" "80" 
	Option "AccelFactor" "0.030" 
	Option "HorizScrollDelta" "0" 
	Option "FingerLow" "1" 
	Option "FingerHigh" "3" 
	Option "LeftEdge" "80" 
	Option "TopEdge" "80" 
	Option "RightEdge" "850" 
	Option "BottomEdge" "560" 
	Option "TapButton1" "1" 
	Option "TapButton2" "3" 
	Option "TapButton3" "2" 
EndSection

#Wacom Mouse
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier "Mouse - Wacom Graphire"
	Driver "mouse"
	Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
        Option	"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
#	Option "Device" "/dev/input/mouse2"
	Option "ZAxisMapping" "5 4"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier "Cursor"
        Driver	"wacom"
#	Option "DebugLevel" "10"
	Option	"Mode"	"Relative"
        Option	"Type"	"cursor"
        Option	"USB"	"on"
	Option	"Threshold"	"20"
        Option	"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
#	Option "ZAxisMapping" "5 4"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier "Stylus"
        Driver	"wacom"
	Option	"Mode"	"Absolute"
        Option	"Type" "stylus"
        Option	"USB" "on"
	Option	"Threshold"	"20"
#	Option	"Threshold"	"10"
        Option	"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
#        Option	"Device"	"/dev/input/event5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier "Eraser"
        Driver	"wacom"
	Option	"Mode"	"Absolute"
        Option	"Type"	"eraser"
        Option	"USB"	"on"
	Option	"Threshold"	"20"
#	Option	"Threshold"	"10"
        Option	"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
#        Option	"Device"	"/dev/input/event5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 M9 (R250 Lf)"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:0:16:0"
#	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
#	Option          "EnablePageFlip"        "true"
        Option          "RenderAccel"           "true"
        Option		"AGPMode"		"4"
	Option          "AGPFastWrite"          "yes"
	Option 		"DRI" 			"true" 
	Option 		"ColorTiling" 		"on"
	Option 		"AccelMethod" 		"EXA"
	Option 		"EXANoOffscreenPixmaps"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Color LCD"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 M9 (R250 Lf)"
	Monitor		"Color LCD"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x854"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x854"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x854"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x854"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x854"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x854"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	InputDevice     "Cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "Stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "Eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	# Wacom Mouse
#	InputDevice 	"Mouse - Wacom Graphire" "SendCoreEvents"
	Option 		"AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode		0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
 	Option 		"Composite" 	"Enable"
EndSection


ANY help would be great!

---

