---
title: "1.8ghz dual G5 - Detecting monitor on headless"
date: 2006-07-27
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by aboutblank on 2006-07-27
I installed Ubuntu on this machine with ease and set it up with SSH and VNC. This machine is meant to be headless so I set up autologin and all that. It has a static IP. 

When I attempt to boot the computer without a monitor, it does okay for about a minute then the fans start to speed up. They continue to speed up.. and I mean REALLY SPEED UP. I've never had the fans spin so fast. All of them must be going at full speed. Even after 5 mins, I cannot ping the machine, yet I can see the light on my switch turn on indicating there is an active computer there after about 40 seconds into the boot.

I checked and when I re-connect the monitor that light on the switch goes on when Ubuntu initializes the network interfaces, so I know that it is getting to that stage.

Anyone have any clue as to what is going on?

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-27
There have been many posts on this Forum concerning the problem w/the fans on G5s. However, this one is a new issue, perhaps connected, perhaps not. I haven't anything to offer right now, but posit that the fan issue is somehow connected to your issue. Hopefully, there is one (or more) member w/a suggestion.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2006-07-27
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=185755](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=185755) is one of the many links discussing issues w/G5, PPC 6.06, etc. Perhaps it will provide a clue?

---

### Post by aboutblank on 2006-07-27
This is a power mac and not an iMac. Sorry, that's my fault, I didn't state that clearly.

So the bottom line is that my setup works perfectly with a monitor plugged in but not at all without one. I'm thinking that the video card is somehow trying to detect whether it has an ADC connection or a DVI one and gets confused when it senses neither are connected. The graphics card is, of course, unmarked with the model. It is Nvidia though and it is one with ADC and DVI. Perhaps a hardware hack is needed to trick the graphics card into sensing a monitor?

Edit - The fans speeding up only happens when the monitor isn't plugged in. Could it be the firmware? Is there a key combo to enter a BIOS like menu for the Apple firmware?

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-07-27
I had a hard time getting ubuntu to work on my Powermac G5 dual 2Ghz. I found that gentoo has better Powermac G5 support than ubuntu. I use gentoo on that machine. There are many powermac PPC experts in the gentoo ppc forum, if you need help.

---

### Post by aboutblank on 2006-07-27
Problem SOLVED! :D

Using [this document]("http://tvtool.info/go.htm?http://tvtool.info/english/dummy_e.htm"), I created a "dummy" vga connector.

In case that link goes down, take three 75 Ohm (approx. I used 68 Ohm) resistors and put them between pins 1 and 6, 2 and 7, 3 and 8 on a VGA connector. I used a DVI to VGA connector that came with a graphics card and stuck the resistors in the female, vga side. (wow.. resistors in teh female..)

Thanks for the help people! I now have a headless G5!!

Ps, the fans don't rev either.

---

