---
title: "7.04 on Old World OK, Airport Extreme??"
date: 2007-04-30
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by kansaibear on 2007-04-30
xubuntu on wallstreet install ok....

couldnt install from the disk though. tried the desktop ppc and the alternate ppc...
have osx and os9 on this machine and had 5 gb of unused disk so I did a basic install.
booted the disk with bootx from os9 then closed without installing the desktop.
(did this cause no maner of fiddling seemed to get me passed 6% install.... saw it in some other posts)

booted up in 10.3.9(booted with x postfacto) 
and grabbed the kernel and ramdisk files with ext2fsx and drug them over to the 0S9 disk.
[http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=64713&package_id=61952](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=64713&package_id=61952)
probably not linuxy for some die hards but it worked slick

booted into the command line from bootx.
set the kernel argument to
video=atyfb:vmode:14,cmode:32,mclk:71 root=/dev/hda--
forced video settings and selected the kernel and ramdisk that I drug from the basic install
dont understand the boot process really...
some of the distros dont need to use the ramdisk on boot and some do. got an explanation?

used the info on this page and installed the X11 packages and xubuntu and gnome desktops...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=384205&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=384205&page=2)
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/nox](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/nox)
actually gnome just came along for the ride cause I was quick with the install command : )

rebooted and there was the feisty GUI.
very cool, I am a believer in ubuntu now.
It has come of age and the average joe can make it their desktop not I believe.
I still prefer OSX ( cause I am lazy and it is just too easy)
but that machine is pretty slow with panther so all the wallstreet, pismo owners should give it a whirl.

last 2 notes
got a japanese keyboard cause I live in japan and fixed that with
$ setxkbmap -model jp106 -layout jp  
seems to revert afte reboot so any good ideas would be appreciated!

finally HOW DO I GET THE AIRPORT EXTREME WORKING??

Thanks,

---

### Post by Tommy on 2007-04-30
> **kansaibear said:**
> xubuntu on wallstreet install ok....
Thank you for your detailed rundown! Very helpful.
> finally HOW DO I GET THE AIRPORT EXTREME WORKING??Since the Wallstreet didn't come with an Airport Extreme card, you must have added one, or maybe you're talking about a different model. If you ARE talking about the Wallstreet, what exact wireless card are you using?

---

### Post by kansaibear on 2007-04-30
ok, ya got me.

it is a buffalo WLI-CB-G54
54Mbps cardbus

shows up as
 Wireless Card Type:	AirPort Extreme
  Wireless Card Locale:	Worldwide
  Wireless Card Firmware Version:	405.1 (3.90.34.0.p18)
  Current Wireless Network:	xxxxxx
  Wireless Channel:	1
in my os x system profile

Has a broadcom chip, that is all I know for sure. Runs native in OSX from 10.2 on

also have a Motorola QN825G
shows up with the same info

---

### Post by ditsch on 2007-04-30
If it's a Broadcom chip, you could get it to work with bcm43xx. Simply install the Firmware with ```
sudo apt-get install bcm43xx-fwcutter
``` Then enable the module with ```
sudo modprobe bcm43xx
``` The card should work from then on as eth1.

---

### Post by kansaibear on 2007-05-01
hmmmmmm,
install went fine

but the modprobe didnt cut the mustard
modprobe bcm43bcm43xx

finally went to the network panel and tried it there but no dice....

I tried no password from the airport station
(actually serving from a G4 gigabit with internet sharing)
I tried password wep 40 bit (5 digit key)

doesnt connect with either.

got a green light on the power, but the link doesnt flash like it does when it is working....

tried the motorola card too, same deal

---

### Post by stmiller on 2007-05-01
> **kansaibear said:**
> hmmmmmm,
install went fine

but the modprobe didnt cut the mustard
modprobe bcm43bcm43xx


Try typing in the module name correctly.

---

### Post by travnewmatic on 2007-05-01
That airport setup thing really does work.  Maybe not on the first try.  I've had to do it two or three times myself.
```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```
is going to be your best friend.

Have patience because (assuming that you have the hardware that your driver is for) it's going to work.

---

