---
title: "6.06 vs X.3.9?"
date: 2006-12-03
forum: Apple PPC Users
---

### Post by mo79 on 2006-12-03
I'm aiming to pimp my girlfriend's old iMac G3 233 with RAM (to make 288MB in total) and a 80GB HD and was just wondering what's honestly better?
She's not technical and staunchly in favour of OS X.3.9, but if Xubuntu 6.06 (to be safe) is slightly faster and efficient, and I can assure that then she's open to negotiation. The only need for that machine is web/email/word processing/mp3 playing as she has her iBook for other stuff.

I use a PC so I'm not able to test on my comp to see. And she doesn't have memory to test Xubuntu yet. But as an Ubuntu user I think Xubuntu would serve her well. Just need people to cheer me on or step cautiously!

---

### Post by Sef on 2006-12-03
I would step cautiously as you don't want to mess up her imac, especially if she is attached to it.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2006-12-04
If she needs Flash, stick with OS X.

Otherwise, Xubuntu will be a better idea. You can even set up Xubuntu to work a bit like OS X.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-12-04
I'd do it the sneaky way - switch her apps over to Firefox, Thunderbird, and perhaps Abiword - all of which have OSX native builds.

Then when she's ready for speed, a hardware upgrade / os switch will be seamless. :)

---

### Post by AlphaMack on 2006-12-04
If you do it the sneaky way and she happens to get onto YouTube...you might have some 'splainin to do. ;)

---

### Post by mo79 on 2006-12-04
Oh...So, you can't get Flash on Xubuntu? :-k That's a bit sucky as one major reason they want to upgrade from OS 8.6 is to have a web browser that will deal with all of todays bells and whistles.

---

### Post by insub2 on 2006-12-04
> **mo79 said:**
> Oh...So, you can't get Flash on Xubuntu? :-k That's a bit sucky as one major reason they want to upgrade from OS 8.6 is to have a web browser that will deal with all of todays bells and whistles.

You CAN get Flash Beta 9 for Linux on Xubuntu.  It works fine as far as in could tell.  (i'm using ubuntu now and have since wiped my xubuntu install but it did work at the time)  It is a little fuss to get it set up but if you find a good how-to, you'll be set.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2006-12-05
> **insub2 said:**
> You CAN get Flash Beta 9 for Linux on Xubuntu.  It works fine as far as in could tell.  (i'm using ubuntu now and have since wiped my xubuntu install but it did work at the time)  It is a little fuss to get it set up but if you find a good how-to, you'll be set.

You **cannot** get Flash Player for PowerPC Linux.

...but you could always try Gnash, which is an attempt to create a free implementation of Flash Player (7). I haven't tried it, but it will probably play more Flash movies than whatever player you have on Mac OS 8.6.

---

### Post by insub2 on 2006-12-05
> **3rdalbum said:**
> You **cannot** get Flash Player for PowerPC Linux.

oh.  that stinks.  but to be fair, the culprit is PowerPC not Xubuntu.

---

### Post by mo79 on 2006-12-06
Thanks guys. ;) I guess for now the best is X.3.9. It goes without saying but I appreciate being told how Ubuntu mightn't cater for someone.

---

### Post by engla on 2006-12-06
> **insub2 said:**
> oh.  that stinks.  but to be fair, the culprit is PowerPC not Xubuntu.

No, the culprits are Adobe/Macromedia and the producers of their multimedia codecs.

---

