---
title: "Code::Blocks and KDE"
date: 2007-04-12
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by IronAvatar on 2007-04-12
I'm trying to get the basic KDE "Hello World" application to compile in the latest build of Code::Blocks.  But there seems to a very odd compile error (I'm using GCC) in kdelibs_export.h which is causing compiler errors in any header file that includes it.

I've tried looking at the compiler settings for the app in kDevelop, but I can't seem to find what the difference is that makes it compile.  

Some of the errors I'm getting are;

> 
/usr/include/kde/kdeversion.h:39: error: expected ‘=’, ‘,’, ‘;’, ‘asm’ or ‘__attribute__’ before ‘KDE’
/usr/include/kde/kapplication.h:28: error: expected ‘=’, ‘,’, ‘;’, ‘asm’ or ‘__attribute__’ before ‘KConfig’
/usr/include/kde/kapplication.h:29: error: expected ‘=’, ‘,’, ‘;’, ‘asm’ or ‘__attribute__’ before ‘KCharsets’
/usr/include/kde/kapplication.h:30: error: expected ‘=’, ‘,’, ‘;’, ‘asm’ or ‘__attribute__’ before ‘DCOPClient’


and this pretty much continues for every other include file.  As you can see, the error is the same and each one includes kdelibs_export.h.  I'm wondering if there is some sort of global define that I need to specify or something? 

Any takers?

---

### Post by harun on 2007-04-12
You can post the file your actually compiling, then post the gcc command you are using to try and compile or...

Use KDevelop, creating a "Hello World" with the wizard and then you can either mess with it there or else look at the make files it generated and see what your missing in your code::blocks project.

---

### Post by IronAvatar on 2007-04-13
> **harun said:**
> 
Use KDevelop, creating a "Hello World" with the wizard and then you can either mess with it there or else look at the make files it generated and see what your missing in your code::blocks project.

This is exactly what I did.  Created the app with the wizard in kDevelop and then transplanted the source over to Code::Blocks.  I didn't get much of a chance to look into it last night, but I have a feeling that there is a few required defines buried in the make files generated by autoconf.

---

