---
title: "Problem with PATH VE"
date: 2008-02-25
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by fahmi2008 on 2008-02-25
Hello,
I'd installed the BIP language which is a formal language of modelling real time systems.
I'd edited the .bashrc file to add the EV $BIP_HOME  and PATH which represents of course $BIP_HOME/bin
result: "echo $PATH" contains the added one.
But when i used a command contained in the bin directory i obtained an alert which said "Not accorded Permission" even when i'm su.
Help please.
Thanks.

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2008-02-25
> **fahmi2008 said:**
> Hello,
I'd installed the BIP language which is a formal language of modelling real time systems.

What's the name of the tool? You can't install a language, just a program dealing with inputs in that language.

---

### Post by fahmi2008 on 2008-02-25
Yes I'm sorry.
In fact BIP is the name of the tool which allows to model real time systems.

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2008-02-25
You've got the problem that you're getting an error with software that is apparently not open source and the error message itself is generated by that (unless you didn't copy it 1-to-1 into your post). So it could mean anything. You may need to ask the authors for that.

The [web page]("http://www-verimag.imag.fr/~async/BIP/bip.html") of the tool states that you need to have Java installed. Did you install the SUN JDK and updated the system to use it by default? Also make sure that the first time you try to use the program use an example input file provided. If that doesn't work, maybe you write to the authors using the e-mail address provided on the page.

---

