---
title: "Simple C for loop question."
date: 2010-06-16
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by JwB Zoofware on 2010-06-16
Consider the code:

```
char * p;
    
for(p = fmt; *p; p++) {
   putchar(*p);
}
```

Could someone be kind enough to explain why it doesn't continue past the end of the char array? Does \0 somehow evaluate to false? Why does it produce exactly the same output as:

```
char * p;
    
for(p = fmt; *p != '\0'; p++) {
   putchar(*p);
}
```

If null does evaluate to false then why does K&R's C programming language book use:

```
while(*p != '\0') { ... }
```

rather than:

```
while(*p) { ... }
```

Is it purely a stylistic issue?

Thanks for any pointers.

---

### Post by Krupski on 2010-06-16
> **JwB Zoofware said:**
> Consider the code:

```
char * p;
    
for(p = fmt; *p; p++) {
   putchar(*p);
}
```

Could someone be kind enough to explain why it doesn't continue past the end of the char array? Does \0 somehow evaluate to false? Why does it produce exactly the same output as:

```
char * p;
    
for(p = fmt; *p != '\0'; p++) {
   putchar(*p);
}
```


The FOR loop runs until the middle expression evaluates to zero (or "equals").

Normally, a loop would look like this:

for (i=0; i<10; i++)
{
    /* whatever */
}

When I equals 10 (that is, 10-i=0), the loop ends.

So, in your loop, when the char is a zero, the loop ends.

I think. :lolflag:

-- Roger

---

### Post by Tony Flury on 2010-06-16
The loop runs until the condition is false - which is the same as saying the condition evaluates to zero.

using (*p = '\0') is more explicit (more obvious what is going on) but in terms of the code generated by the compiler - they are probably both the same.

---

### Post by JwB Zoofware on 2010-06-16
Aha I see thanks :)

I was forgetting that '\0' does actually equal 0, I was foolishly thinking it was instead equal to NULL (because its the null character) :oops:

---

### Post by DanielWaterworth on 2010-06-16
NULL is just (void*)0 so it also evaluates false.

---

### Post by Compyx on 2010-06-16
> **DanielWaterworth said:**
> NULL is just (void*)0 so it also evaluates false.

Don't rely on that. In a boolean context, NULL is indeed false, but NULL isn't always all-bits zero. A implementation is allowed to, for example, declare NULL as (void*)0xDEADBEEF.

A '0' numeric constant may be used as a NULL value in code, the compiler will translate that to whatever NULL really is. But all-bits 0 cannot portably be used as NULL.

You'll often see stuff like this in code, to initialize all pointers to NULL:
```

char *foo[16];
memset(foo, 0, sizeof foo);

```
Although this works on many common platforms, such as x86, it is not portable, the portable way is:
```

char *foo[16];
size_t i;

for (i = 0; i < 16; i++) {
    foo[i] = NULL;
}

```
You can even use a literal '0' in stead of NULL here, the compiler will translate that to the proper NULL bit pattern.

---

