---
title: "6.06 LTS ./configure fails on QT libs"
date: 2007-05-30
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by wkulecz on 2007-05-30
I'm trying to build a downloaded source tarball on Ubuntu 6.06 LTS and the ./configure script fails telling me I need multithreaded QT.  Clearly libqt-mt is there in /usr/lib.  I'm rusty enough with shell programming to kind of figure out the QTDIR variable is empty and that is probably why its not finding the libraries its searching for.

How do I globally fix what is making these configure scripts fail?  This is the second time I've run into this, but the first was simple enough I could just manually move the files into a Kdevlop new project and build it.  This one is too complex for me to attempt.

--wally.

---

### Post by seamless on 2007-05-30
You need to install the -dev package to build anything against it. Installing libqt3-mt-dev should fix your problem.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2007-05-31
> **seamless said:**
> You need to install the -dev package to build anything against it. Installing libqt3-mt-dev should fix your problem.

libqt3-mt-dev was installed.  Re-installing it and libqt3-compat-headers made no difference.  Went ahead and installed all the libqt3-* packages and still no go.

--wally.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2007-06-01
Well I moved the tarball to an old Fedora Core 5 system and ./configure, make built the package fine.

Ubuntu seems not well tested for software development and seems pretty broken despite having all the software development packages installed.

--wally.

---

