---
title: "Changing &quot;about&quot; your application in netbeans?"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by jinxen on 2008-11-05
Ok, this might be a really stupid question but i really can't find where to edit what to be in the "about screen" of your application developed in java, netbans. No it just says About titleofapp and under V12.0.0 and so on, and of course one ugly icon also :) 

So where in netbeans can i change this?

Cheers

---

### Post by jinxen on 2008-11-05
I thought it might be a little easier if i just showed you guys with a image instead.

[IMG]http://noshitsherlock.se/about.png[/IMG]

This is the information i would like to change. This appears when you click on you program and choose about. I would like it to say something else here :)

Thanks!

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2008-11-05
> **jinxen said:**
> Ok, this might be a really stupid question but i really can't find where to edit what to be in the "about screen" of your application developed in java, netbans. No it just says About titleofapp and under V12.0.0 and so on, and of course one ugly icon also :) 


It depends on how you created your application. Is there some application wizard in recent versions of Netbeans that you have used?

---

### Post by jinxen on 2008-11-05
Nope i did not use any wizard. I just started a new project and created a main class :)

---

### Post by jinxen on 2008-11-05
Can't i just disable the about field or something? Very ugly if that shows up when people are hitting the about on my app :)

---

### Post by drubin on 2008-11-05
I have never experienced it adding custom menu's/menuitems with out the programmers knowledge.

What version of netbeans are you using? Have you looked at the generated code?

---

### Post by jinxen on 2008-11-05
I am using the netbeans 6.1 which should be the newest version? Where is this code suposed to be created? Don't really know where to look :(

---

### Post by drubin on 2008-11-05
> **jinxen said:**
> I am using the netbeans 6.1 which should be the newest version? Where is this code suposed to be created? Don't really know where to look :(

It should be located on the left hand pane in package/source browser. Just look for you main method.

---

### Post by jinxen on 2008-11-07
Can't find anything in the generated code of the gui creation. This is really bugging me now :) And in the main class there is'nt any generated code.

---

### Post by jinxen on 2008-11-07
Thanks for all the help guys but i finally figured it out - i think :)

Created a class called MacOSAboutHandler  that does following:

```

public class MacOSAboutHandler extends Application {

    public MacOSAboutHandler() {
        addApplicationListener(new AboutBoxHandler());
    }

    class AboutBoxHandler extends ApplicationAdapter {
        @Override
        public void handleAbout(ApplicationEvent event) {
            event.setHandled(true);
            AboutBox ab = new AboutBox();
            ab.setVisible(true);
        }
    }
}

```

So what i did was that i found in the java api a method called handleAbout(). So i pretty much just disabled the old about menu and replaced it with my own. Seems to work just fine. Don't know of the overall performance aout it but it's such a small program and it seems to work fine :)

Does anyone know how i display a hidden window by clicking on the icon in the mac dock? My main window is going to hide when i click on the close button - that is what i want. But when i click on the icon in the dock i want it to appear again, i can't figure that one out how to do :)

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2008-11-07
It really seams as if you did not just start a new plain Java Project and created a Main class. What is the type of project you created?

Also, where does the screenshot above come from? Did you start your plain empty program and this menu is actually generated by the program/the program's main menu? Then there must be some code in your project. Almost all of us can't read that language.

Also there is no "handleAbout" in the Java API. A quick google search reveals that this is an Apple-only extension.

---

### Post by drubin on 2008-11-07
> **Zugzwang said:**
> It really seams as if you did not just start a new plain Java Project and created a Main class. 

What is the type of project you created?

Also there is no "handleAbout" in the Java API. A quick google search reveals that this is an Apple-only extension.

This is not true it is part of the WYSIWIG applications development section. It is I think part of the netbeans core gui.

But this being said I would HIGHLY recommend writing this applications from scratch then using the wysiwig editors so that you may better understand the Java concepts and then you will be able to remove the about menu.

You can remove the about menu by clicking on it in the wysiwig editor and pressing delete but this will not explain how/why it is being removed (I even do not understand this as I do not use wysiwig editors I find them over troublesome)

---

### Post by jinxen on 2008-11-08
After reading alot on the net i found that the about menu is something created by mac os x specific. So in windows you will not see it in the same way. And yes there are a specific api with apple mac os x extras to handle some stuff which i did not know before. So by disabling the about menu and creating a new one a also had to create a handler that coped with the quit option since that did not work if you started to create you own handlers. I did not know that apple and mac os x had so many behaviours on its own including handling the dock, menus, quits etc when it comes to java. There are also numerous Virtual Machine options (X-Option:) to run if you, for example would like the program title to say "your application" instead of MainClass.Main. This is also only for mac os x. 

I have learnt alot on this project. And it seems that many people have been having problems with java in mac os x and therefor has many many wrappers and librarys been created that cope with stuff like this (macify, growlwrapper, etc). So i thank you all for taking the time and answering and i will try to give more information in the future before asking a question.

Cheers.

---

### Post by drubin on 2008-11-08
> **jinxen said:**
> I have learnt alot on this project. And it seems that many people have been having problems with java in mac os x and therefor has many many wrappers and librarys been created that cope with stuff like this (macify, growlwrapper, etc). So i thank you all for taking the time and answering and i will try to give more information in the future before asking a question.


Take a look at my sig for asking questions it might help you.

---

