---
title: "...and so then I sed..."
date: 2006-08-25
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by LadyDoor on 2006-08-25
Hello!

Just a quick question that I can't seem to find the answer to in the **sed** manual or in the info document...how would I replace part of a path with a different path? For example, how would I go about changing the text "**/home/door/myfile**" to "**/var/folder/myfile**" (without the quotes, of course)?

Thanks in advance,
Door

---

### Post by gruepig on 2006-08-25
The core bit of syntax relies on the sed s/// operator.  For example, 

```
sed s/oldstring/newstring/
```

**s**ubstitutes the first occurrence of old string (on a given line) with the new string.  If you want to replace all occurrences, you need to add the **g**lobal flag:

```
sed s/oldstring/newstring/g
```

In your case, the old string and the new string are "/home/door/" and "/var/folder/" respectively.

Note that you've got forward slashes in your strings, and forward slashes are what sed is using as a delimiter.  So you might escape the forward slashes in your strings with backslashes:

```
sed s/\/home\/door\//\/var\/folder\//g
```

This is moderately unreadable.  Fortunately, you don't need to use the forward slash as the sed delimiter.  You can use something else, like colons instead, to produce the more readable: 

```
sed s:/home/door/:/var/folder/:g
```.

Now let's say you have a file "baz" (in your current working directory) that contains "/home/door/myfile".  You could:

```
cat baz | sed s:/home/door/:/var/folder/:g
```

Alternately:

```
sed s:/home/door/:/var/folder/:g baz
```

This will output the new contents to the terminal.  You could redirect it to a new file, "quux":

```
sed s:/home/door/:/var/folder/:g baz > quux
```

Alternately, you could just tell sed to edit the file **i**nplace:

```
sed -i s:/home/door/:/var/folder/:g baz
```

You might want to keep a backup of baz, say baz.bk.  You could cp the file yourself, or you could tell sed to do this for you:

```
sed -i.bk s:/home/door/:/var/folder/:g baz
```

And to make the replacement in several files, like baz1, baz2, and baz3 (saving backups of each):

```
sed -i.bk s:/home/door/:/var/folder/:g baz1 baz2 baz3
```

---

### Post by transactionlogfiller on 2006-08-25
Cheers, gruepig. I didn't know about the -i option. :cool:

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2006-08-25
FWIW, '-i' is a GNU-ism and isn't supported on Solaris and most other commerical UNIX.  

Even worse, the ability to *read* files with sed (i.e., sed '-e'command' file1 file2 file3) isn't standard.  Very old UNIX doesn't support it, sed can only read and write to stdin and stdout.   Sadly, that means for the most portability, you have to use:```
cat file file2 file3 | sed -e'command' > file.out
```But if you're only using them on your Linux box, it's perfectly fine to use '-i'.

---

### Post by gruepig on 2006-08-25
Or on UNIX systems with perl installed, you could use:  

```
perl -p -i -e s/oldstring/newstring/g filename
```

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2006-08-25
Yeah but perl is place of sed is just awful :p

---

### Post by LadyDoor on 2006-08-25
Awesome! Thank you for your response, gruepig! It helped a lot.

--Door

---

