---
title: ".exe in ubuntu? making java prog executable by double clicking"
date: 2009-01-05
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Eremis on 2009-01-05
Hi everybody! 

Ok, in windows i used to make programs in java, and convert them into .exe using "exe4j" so all i had to do was double click the "whateverprog.exe" and it would run without having to go to JCreator, or Netbeans, and run it through the program. So I was wondering is there a way to do that in Ubuntu?
(for example make some sort of a file out of (whatever.java, and whatever.CLASS) so you can run just by double clicking? :confused:

Please help, any reply would be helpfull

Thanks!

---

### Post by Reiger on 2009-01-05
Yes, executable JAR files. Which incidentally is one of the 'build' types your project ought to be able to be exported as by any worth-the-name Java-IDE.

---

### Post by Eremis on 2009-01-05
Is there any other way?
(I have never tried to make a .jar file)

---

### Post by Kilon on 2009-01-06
> **Eremis said:**
> Is there any other way?
(I have never tried to make a .jar file)

You have to bare in mind that JAR is the executable format for all OSs. It will run in any OS just by double click. NETBEANS is the easiest here for creating JAR files because it will requires nothing from . It creates them automatically each time you run your program from inside NETBEANS. ECLIPSE creates them with just two clicks. Even from command line is easy to do it. 

Why you try to avoid it ? It is dead easy. You will create one executable which will run anywhere.

---

### Post by ufis on 2009-01-06
> **Kilon said:**
> You have to bare in mind that JAR is the executable format for all OSs.

I think the thing here is that with something like exe4j the .exe that is created has an embedded jre. So the box you run it on does not need to have java installed for the .exe to run.

Making a jar still requires java to be installed on the box you are trying to execute it on.

Eremis: If you are looking for something that will allow the execution of your program on a *nix box without having java installed, I cannot help. I do not know of a *nix equivalent of exe4j.

If it is just to execute it outside of your IDE, then use the executable jar as suggested earlier. Also read up about the manifest.
[http://java.sun.com/docs/books/tutorial/deployment/jar/]("http://java.sun.com/docs/books/tutorial/deployment/jar/") should provide you with enough info to get going.

Edit : Also read up about [Apache Ant]("http://ant.apache.org/") for your jar building needs.

---

### Post by drubin on 2009-01-06
This questions has been asked before. Here is a thread that contains indepeths discussion of it.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=877403](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=877403)  < First
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=890198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=890198)  < Second 

They continue in that order.

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2009-01-06
This is one of these questions... "stuff doesn't work like it generally does in Windows, how do I make it work like in Windows so that I can avoid understanding how and why it properly works somewhere else, even though it might mean jumping through hoops and doing things wrong and in a nonsensical way?" :)

---

### Post by drubin on 2009-01-06
> **CptPicard said:**
> This is one of these questions... "stuff doesn't work like it generally does in Windows, how do I make it work like in Windows so that I can avoid understanding how and why it properly works somewhere else, even though it might mean jumping through hoops and doing things wrong and in a nonsensical way?" :)

I agree with this. Jar files are 100% double click able (if you have a GUI and a mouse :)

---

### Post by Eremis on 2009-01-07
Thanks for all the help I will try to create a JAR file.

---

### Post by drubin on 2009-01-09
> **Eremis said:**
> Thanks for all the help I will try to create a JAR file.

Great post back your results for others to see it really isn't that hard :)

---

### Post by issih on 2009-01-09
I think the last couple of times I made an executable jar file using eclipse, I had to manually go in and change the file permissions so it was executable. Just thought it was worth pointing out...

---

### Post by Eremis on 2009-01-17
I got it work had some problems with the "manifest" file, but it was no big deal 
-- Thanks for all the help!

---

### Post by cl333r on 2009-01-18
> **drubin said:**
> I agree with this. Jar files are 100% double click able (if you have a GUI and a mouse :)

Sometimes some applications (i.e. on windows) while installing themselves change the file associations and the .jar files don't launch at double click anymore, unless the user changes the association back.

---

### Post by DocForbin on 2009-01-18
The big advantage I see to using something like exe4j in windows is your process can have a meaningful name instead of "java". Imagine trying to figure out what process to kill if all your programs ran as executable jars.

java
java
java
java
java
...

---

### Post by spupy on 2009-01-18
[GCJ]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gcj") can compile java into native code. Although I've never tried it and don't know how well it works.

---

### Post by eye208 on 2009-01-18
> **DocForbin said:**
> The big advantage I see to using something like exe4j in windows is your process can have a meaningful name instead of "java". Imagine trying to figure out what process to kill if all your programs ran as executable jars.
Actually there is no difference. What exe4j and similar programs do is write out a small program loader and attach the original jar file to it. The program loader then runs "javaw.exe -jar" with the loader's own file name as the jar file parameter, and then exits immediately. Why does this work? Because the exe's header is at the beginning of the file, and the jar's header is at the end. This means if you concatenate exe + jar, the result will be a file that is both a valid exe and a valid jar, depending on where you start reading it.

So the program loader really just starts javaw.exe as usual, and that's what you see in the task manager's process list. However, the benefit is that exe files can have individual icons in Windows while all jar files share the same icon.

---

### Post by drubin on 2009-01-18
> **eye208 said:**
> So the program loader really just starts javaw.exe as usual, and that's what you see in the task manager's process list. However, the benefit is that exe files can have individual icons in Windows while all jar files share the same icon.

And this is a benefit? to be more like windows.

---

### Post by DocForbin on 2009-01-18
eye, you are incorrect. exe4j lets each process have its own name. In fact this is the main reason many use it...

---

### Post by eye208 on 2009-01-18
> **DocForbin said:**
> eye, you are incorrect. exe4j lets each process have its own name. In fact this is the main reason many use it...
Since there is no way to change the process name of a running javaw.exe, this means they load the entire javaw.exe into their own process space and then call its entry point. This is possible using LoadLibrary or LoadLibraryEx, but Microsoft doesn't recommend it.
[quote=MSDN Library]However, do not use LoadLibrary to run an .exe file. Instead, use the CreateProcess function.[/quote]
No one should be surprised if this method stops working. On the other hand, we're talking about Windows, where things break all the time ... no one will be surprised anyway. ;)

---

### Post by DocForbin on 2009-01-18
> **eye208 said:**
> Since there is no way to change the process name of a running javaw.exe, this means they load the entire javaw.exe into their own process space and then call its entry point. This is possible using LoadLibrary or LoadLibraryEx, but Microsoft doesn't recommend it.

I assume this is how it works. In any case, exe4j has had the unique process name feature for a long time. It's pretty widely used esp for commercial java apps.

---

