---
title: "Creating a Migration Script"
date: 2007-06-07
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by ankursethi on 2007-06-07
Since I re install my system at every release, I'm creating a small script in Python which will backup the following from my old system and restore them on my new system :
1. Installed packages list
2. Configuration folders for each installed package (.emacs, .skype etc.)
3. Network configuration files
4. Fonts
5. sources.list (with appropriate modifications)
6. fstab
7. Anything else I might want to archive and move

Everything will, obviously, be completely optional. I'll just write a main module to archive, another one to restore and then import them into another script, only archiving/restoring those files I want.

I want to know :
1. The location of all the network config files
2. Is PyGTK available in the default installation?
3. Which is better : tarfile, zlib, gzip, bz2? I'm currently using tarfile.
4. I wouldn't mind uploading this script somewhere, so are there any more files any more would like uploaded? (do not list xorg.conf etc. because they are autogenerated after the installation anyway)

PS : I'll probably reply to this topic after a couple of days because I'm not at home right now and can't really dig into Python code from this WinXP computer.

---

### Post by ankursethi on 2007-06-09
<SHEEPISH GRIN>Er, bump.</SHEEPISH GRIN>

---

### Post by jaygo on 2007-10-13
I wonder how this is going for you, with no replies here. It might be a useful script / list to pass on to the maintainers of Keep or sbackup so they could offer default backup options that were more useful.

By the way, Xorg.conf is only autogenerated if you haven't manually edited it, or so I read. Now that 7.10 lets you edit it from a GUI, I'm not sure if it will be autogenerated on updates or not.

GL

---

### Post by slavik on 2007-10-13
backup your /etc directory and the /home directory ... that will get your files and any per-user and global config files.

---

### Post by jaygo on 2007-10-15
Thanks. Will do.

---

