---
title: "Vala for cross-platform development?"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by gunnarflax on 2011-10-14
Hello everyone!

I'm a web developer who wants to start developing native GTK-applications. Vala looks very attractive due to it's similarities to Java and C# but can it be compiled run on other platforms or just the Linux-platform? I figured since it is so heavily integrated with GTK+ it would be very easy to also make your applications available to Windows or OS X. Am I correct to assume this or can't it be compiled for other platforms?

Thank!

---

### Post by jerenept on 2011-10-14
If you like Java, use Java. It's available on pretty much any platform.

If you like dotNet/C#, use Mono (and ignore the chorus of Mono haters)

---

### Post by simeon87 on 2011-10-14
But the question was about Vala.

From what I know, there are Windows binaries for Vala but I don't expect many people to be able to help you when you have problems getting it to work on Windows or Mac OS X. Last time I checked Vala, it was too unstable to actually use but I'm sure it has improved a lot since then. But it's not that much in use as Java, C, C++, Python and many other languages. It's up to you if you want to use Vala. Your safest bet is probably an established language.

---

### Post by crdlb on 2011-10-14
The C code generated by Vala should be no less portable than hand-written C. The biggest limiting factor is the portability of Gtk+ itself. Gtk's Windows and OS X support is not as mature and as well maintained as Qt's, for example.

---

### Post by gunnarflax on 2011-10-17
> **crdlb said:**
> The C code generated by Vala should be no less portable than hand-written C. The biggest limiting factor is the portability of Gtk+ itself. Gtk's Windows and OS X support is not as mature and as well maintained as Qt's, for example.

Thank you, that was the answer I was looking for :) Thank you all for your replies!

---

