---
title: ".rar how does it work (in the deeper level)"
date: 2010-08-30
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by auroraa9420 on 2010-08-30
yes i know this question sounds realy stupid but i wish to know how does (win)rar compresses data???

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2010-08-30
f***in' RARs, how do they work?

You need a course in information theory to understand that, but here's the basic concept. There are 26 letters in the latin alphabet. In an ASCII text file, each letter is coded on one byte. One byte can take 256 different values, but most of the time, only 26 of them are used. That's a lot of data wasted. RAR and othe compression algorithms work by optimizing the data usage: the goal is to have 256/26 (almost 10) letters encoded in one byte (assuming the text contains only latin letters).

---

### Post by Volt9000 on 2010-08-30
If you're talking about the RAR file format specifically, check out these documents on Wotsit:

[http://www.wotsit.org/download.asp?f=rar_2&sc=336507025](http://www.wotsit.org/download.asp?f=rar_2&sc=336507025)
[http://www.wotsit.org/download.asp?f=rar202&sc=336507025](http://www.wotsit.org/download.asp?f=rar202&sc=336507025)

---

### Post by wmcbrine on 2010-08-30
It works similarly to .zip, which is a more open format, with more implementations; that might be easier to understand.

Also... it takes 5 bits to represent 26 letters, so that's 5 out of 8, not 26 out of 256 -- implying a compression ratio slightly less than 2:1, which is closer to typical. Although of course it doesn't exactly work that way.

I'd start by learning about simpler compression algorithms, like run-length encoding (RLE), and work up from there.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2010-08-30
> **wmcbrine said:**
> 
Also... it takes 5 bits to represent 26 letters,.

In what method?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2010-08-30
@auroraa9420 > have a look at this if you're interested. It might be a bit over your head, though, depending on where you are in your education.

[http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-050j-information-and-entropy-spring-2008](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-050j-information-and-entropy-spring-2008)

For the basics you can look at

[http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-004-computation-structures-spring-2009/lecture-notes/MIT6_004s09_lec01.pdf](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-004-computation-structures-spring-2009/lecture-notes/MIT6_004s09_lec01.pdf)

---

### Post by simeon87 on 2010-08-31
> **Bachstelze said:**
> In what method?

Normal bits? 2^5 = 32 and 26 is less than that but 4 bits won't do because you can only have 2^4 = 16 in 4 bits. Therefore 5 bits.

---

### Post by kleskjr on 2010-08-31
I think that compressing software is using some basics of information theory, like Shanon entropy. ( [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entropy_(information_theory](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entropy_(information_theory)) ) Some certain arrays of bits appear much more often than others, so if there is a long array which appears often, just a few bits are used to code it and for other arrays which are rare, more bits are needed to code them.

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2010-08-31
@OP: There are several ways to compress data. A good introduction seems to be the wikipedia article: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lossless_data_compression](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lossless_data_compression)

Most posts in this thread so far have been relying on the fact that in normal text, less than 256 different characters are used. While certainly true, this only gives an intuition while compression is often possible. The typical compressors (gzip, zip, etc.) do not rely on this assumption, but rather have algorithms that are capable of making use of such "distributions" over the input characters whenever they occur. Check out the wikipedia article for details on how data in a more general setting could be compressed. While knowledge about information theory is certainly helpful in this context, it is by no means required to grasp the intuition of the concepts behind, for example, the LZW algorithm, which is a typical representative of compression algorithms used in practice today and is explained on the respective Wikipedia page.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2010-08-31
> **simeon87 said:**
> Normal bits? 2^5 = 32 and 26 is less than that but 4 bits won't do because you can only have 2^4 = 16 in 4 bits. Therefore 5 bits.

That's true if you are coding only one letter, but if you are coding two letters, you certainly do not need 10 bits (at least in theory).

---

### Post by wmcbrine on 2010-08-31
> **Bachstelze said:**
> That's true if you are coding only one letter, but if you are coding two letters, you certainly do not need 10 bits (at least in theory).The hell you don't. You need to be able to represent 26x26 different pairs, or 676. Which takes 10 bits.

At some point*, you will gain a bit off the difference between 32 and 26, but it won't happen with just two characters.

* Specifically, at four characters -- because 2^19 > 26^4.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2010-08-31
> **wmcbrine said:**
> The hell you don't. You need to be able to represent 26x26 different pairs, or 676. Which takes 10 bits.


Right, and it is irrelevant to the discussion at hand, because no one compresses two-character files.  The point was that you do not *need* the whole 10 bits, and given enough characters, the difference will add up to whole bits.

---

### Post by wmcbrine on 2010-08-31
Actually, the point was that you said "the goal is to have 256/26 (almost 10) letters encoded in one byte", which was completely absurd.

---

### Post by Reiger on 2010-08-31
If taken to mean that you *must* have that. If taken to mean that optimal compression of a text file results into 256/26 characters per byte and then that isn't so absurd...

... Of course RAR doesn't attempt to gain maximum compression. Rather it is designed to be an efficient compressed archive format, which also requires that the format can be compressed/decompressed at decent speed and without excessive memory usage.

For something that is (a) open source and (b) aims to purely max out compression performance you may want to read up on the PAQ format.

---

### Post by slavik on 2010-08-31
zip, rar, lzw, gzip, bzip2, arithmetic are all based around huffman coding

---

### Post by wmcbrine on 2010-09-01
> **Reiger said:**
> If taken to mean that you *must* have that. If taken to mean that optimal compression of a text file results into 256/26 characters per byte and then that isn't so absurd...Yes, yes, it is. To say such a thing represents a misunderstanding of the nature of information. To think of it as "26 out of 256" is just wrong.

Standard text (as opposed to a contrived non-random sample) can never be compressed to that degree, not even in theory. It's not just a trade-off of size vs. CPU time, it's a matter of fundamental limits. 

Bachstelze wants to quibble that representing one out of 26 letters doesn't *quite* take 5 bits. That's true -- it takes just over 4.7 bits. In terms of one character, that's 5 bits, but you can approach the 4.7-bit limit as you encode more text. But it doesn't go below that -- it doesn't become 4.6 or 4.5 bits, much less 0.8 bits. Not ever.

Of course you can do things like compress at the level of words instead of bits... but then, to be fair, you have to include the size of the dictionary in the size of the compressed data. And this is true no matter what your compression algorithm is. At some point, you can compress no further, no matter what you do.

---

### Post by Some Penguin on 2010-09-01
Letters aren't equally probable.  For n-grams of modest size, they're even less equally probable.  This why text /is/ massively compressible.

---

### Post by auroraa9420 on 2010-09-01
from a stupid question even the wisest were fooled :)

good to know that...

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-09-01
The basic idea of data compression is to let you store your data in a way that uses less resources such as disk space or communications bandwidth. There are a number of approaches, each with their own advantages and disadvantages, hence the discussion in this thread.

I've read elsewhere [citation needed] that the study of data compression has some parallels with [cryptography]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptography") and [cryptanalysis]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptanalysis"), and boils down to how best to represent the information you're interested in.

> **auroraa9420 said:**
> from a stupid question even the wisest were fooled :)

good to know that...

I think it's a good question, but whether we agree on that one or not is another story.... :D

---

### Post by wmcbrine on 2010-09-01
> **Some Penguin said:**
> This why text /is/ massively compressible.But not ten to one, not as a general case. (On text with a lot of redundancy, sure.)

I have yet to see a compressor that does better than about two to one on general (not heavily-redundant) text files. Have you?

---

### Post by Some Penguin on 2010-09-01
It's rare that I've seen compression ratios LESS than 10:1 for text.

Estimates of the entropy for English tend to be in the area of 1.5-2 bits per character.  Shannon found approximately 1.6 bits.  Have you actually done any research on this at all?

---

### Post by phrostbyte on 2010-09-01
You might want to start with this:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigeon_hole_principle](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigeon_hole_principle)

It's pretty simple concept but has profound implications for compression: it is impossible to compress some files without causing other files to be larger.

The key is to make useful files fit the category of compressible, and useless files (like random noise) to be incompressible. Usually you do this by transforming the data, and then applying something like "Huffman coding" to it. Most of the differences in compression algorithms are on how they transform the data before sending it to be Huffman coded.

---

### Post by wmcbrine on 2010-09-02
> **Some Penguin said:**
> It's rare that I've seen compression ratios LESS than 10:1 for text.gzip, bzip2, zip and rar give me about 2:1. (OK... sometimes 3:1.) Where are you seeing 10:1?

Of course I'm not talking about log files here.

> *Have you actually done any research on this at all?*Not for some years. But I did once write a static Huffman encoder, among other things...

P.S. Yes, I realize that my 4.7 bit figure applies to text made up of random characters, and that English text (or any real language) is much less random than that. I still say 10:1 is unrealistic -- and even your Shannon entropy numbers wouldn't yield 10:1.

---

