---
title: "my netbeans 6 came without javadoc"
date: 2008-01-16
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by pedrotuga on 2008-01-16
I recently installed netbeans 6 but all I have in the /java1/docs folder is these four files.

appframework-1.0.3-doc.zip
beansbinding-1.2.1-doc.zip
jaxws-2_1-api-doc.zip
junit-3.8.2-api.zip

aparently this doesn't cover the main jsdk packages like for example java.net.
I guess the javadocs i need are in the file:
javaee5-doc-api.zip

But i am not suer about that.
Ok, where can i download the javadoc for the packages included in sun's sdk?
Also, which librarie should i link them to in the library manager?

---

### Post by Jimm1 on 2008-01-16
It's not your NetBeans that doesn't have the JavaDoc, it's the Java6 JDK that doesn't, I also had this problem. The JavaDoc is built-in to the JDK classes as comments. I just copied my JDK source JAR from Windows.

---

### Post by mike_g on 2008-01-16
I had the same problem. [ This](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=641736) worked for me.

---

### Post by pedrotuga on 2008-01-16
> **mike_g said:**
> I had the same problem. [ This](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=641736) worked for me.
It works for me too! 
Yay! 
Big thanks.

jimm1: The javadocs are generated by extracting those comments, but as far as i know netbeans fetches the as-you-type documentation from the generated html files.

---

### Post by Stratok on 2008-07-31
xD easy... I also tried the otehr threads posts... found the easy way to fix it :

go to: [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp](http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp)
download: Java SE 6 Documentation
open netbeans
in main menu:
clic:    tools > java platforms > javadoc tab

click add Zip folder...
add the downloaded zip folder... thats it
curiously I couldnt post this in the other thread... since other did'nt helped me

---

### Post by quack on 2008-09-07
I'm with you Stratok... NetBeans install didn't bring in the JDK javadoc and the other thread didn't solve the problem. But manually pointing NetBeans at the documentation ZIP gave me everything I needed. Thanks!

Now I just need to fix it in Eclipse *LOL*

---

### Post by NoBugs! on 2009-01-12
> **quack said:**
> I'm with you Stratok... NetBeans install didn't bring in the JDK javadoc and the other thread didn't solve the problem. But manually pointing NetBeans at the documentation ZIP gave me everything I needed. Thanks!

Now I just need to fix it in Eclipse *LOL*

This should fix it system-wide:
```
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-doc
```
It will stop and ask you to download a file. That documentation file should be available here:
[http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp](http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp)
(Select to download Java SE 6 documentation)
Download the file and save to /tmp/. rename it jdk-6-doc.zip. To change ownership to root, run:
```
sudo chown root:root /tmp/jdk-6-doc.zip
```

Press enter in the installer and it should work!

**--Update--**
The sun-java6-doc package is removed in 10.04, you only need to install openjdk-6-doc package for javadocs.

---

### Post by Grigorius on 2009-04-03
Or, download the zip file from:

[https://cds.sun.com/is-bin/INTERSHOP.enfinity/WFS/CDS-CDS_Developer-Site/en_US/-/USD/ViewProductDetail-Start?ProductRef=jdk-6u10-docs-oth-JPR@CDS-CDS_Developer](https://cds.sun.com/is-bin/INTERSHOP.enfinity/WFS/CDS-CDS_Developer-Site/en_US/-/USD/ViewProductDetail-Start?ProductRef=jdk-6u10-docs-oth-JPR@CDS-CDS_Developer)


save it where you like open NetBeans and go-to:
tools/Java Platforms/ then click on Javadoc and Add ZIP/Folder

---

### Post by mgol on 2009-04-04
> **Grigorius said:**
> Or, download the zip file from:

[https://cds.sun.com/is-bin/INTERSHOP.enfinity/WFS/CDS-CDS_Developer-Site/en_US/-/USD/ViewProductDetail-Start?ProductRef=jdk-6u10-docs-oth-JPR@CDS-CDS_Developer](https://cds.sun.com/is-bin/INTERSHOP.enfinity/WFS/CDS-CDS_Developer-Site/en_US/-/USD/ViewProductDetail-Start?ProductRef=jdk-6u10-docs-oth-JPR@CDS-CDS_Developer)


save it where you like open NetBeans and go-to:
tools/Java Platforms/ then click on Javadoc and Add ZIP/Folder

This solution will work only for NetBeans. The previous one, which involves installing a package, works system-wide. That's why I propose to follow the steps from the previous thread, not this one.

---

### Post by NoBugs! on 2009-10-16
It might be installed, but Netbeans isn't seeing the javadoc directory, if that's the problem you can:
1) Go to Tools - Java Platforms
2) Select Javadoc, and make sure "**/usr/share/doc/sun-java6-doc**" or "**/usr/share/doc/openjdk-6-doc**" is in the list.

---

### Post by NoBugs! on 2010-06-28
It looks like there is no longer any sun-java6-doc package in 10.04. Previous versions had this package, has it been renamed for some reason? Or is javadoc no longer supported in the official repository?

---

### Post by NoBugs! on 2010-06-29
Looks like openjdk-6-doc is the supported javadoc package now. I updated the previous entries to note this.

---

