---
title: ".jar : failed to load Main-Class manifest"
date: 2010-07-30
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2010-07-30
im taking a break from python and just finished  a 1 week camp on java (all we did was the basics and processing) but anyway, we only ran our programs within eclipse itself, and never outside of it.

whats the best way to make 1 java file with just the .java that i made and the core.java that it needs to run?

oh and i tried to export the file as a .jar but when i double clicked it it gave me this error: Failed to load Main-Class manifest attribute from C:\...test.jar

this is also in windows (we did everything at windows at camp, im just trying to get everything to work before i make the switch to eclipse on ubuntu)

---

### Post by Hyporeal on 2010-07-30
Most likely, you can simply issue this command from your source directory:

```
javac *.java
```

This will compile your code into executable .class files. To run your program, use this command:

```
java YourClass
```

(Use the name of your main class instead of YourClass.)

---

### Post by FreshP on 2010-07-30
Did you create the jar file from Eclipse? You have to make sure that you create an executable jar and not just a jar. Also try in the terminal 
```
java -jar myFile.jar
```

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-07-31
What Hyporeal said is your best bet if you wish to learn about compiling and running the java source code yourself.  Compile the .java files with the javac command and then run the one containing the main method with the java command

---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2010-07-31
im getting confused by java (not the coding part)

at camp we just did all our seperate programs in the 2 projects in eclipse.
for example: the project Graphics had the files Bounce (which made a ball bounce around in a window), Bounce off Mouse (same as Bounce but the ball also bounced off the cursor), and Finalproj (which is an extremely limited replica of paint that only allows you to draw circles, lines, quadrilaterals and lines in about 10 colors), all of which were independent projects and used nothing from each other. all these programs within Graphics use processing ([www.processing.org](www.processing.org)) and therefore need core.java in the lib folder.

when i tried to export as a runnable .jar file, i needed to specify launch configuration,and i dont know what that is.

---

