---
title: "Mbs270"
date: 2010-01-22
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by kuin on 2010-01-22
hi.....
sorry my english not good

can someone help me? 
I can not program MBS270.

I follow tutorial from MBS270 website in [http://www.mobisensesystems.com/pages_en/xscale_boards.html](http://www.mobisensesystems.com/pages_en/xscale_boards.html)

but I still understand how to programming the board.

the MBS270 have connected using cross cable from LAN, I follow the tutorial to configuring TFTP and NFS server. it work well. but I still have problem in U-boot. 

I can access to MBS board using ssh command. (ssh 192.168.1.95).
192.168.1.95 MBS IP address.  
and now I have login to MBS root 

mbs270$

can some one helpme to program this board?
helpme please.............:confused::confused::confused::confused::confused::confused::confused::confused::confused:

---

### Post by MindSz on 2010-01-22
Hi, I usually program embedded systems and after taking a (quick) look at the board you are using I can see some similarities.

According to the board's page you can program in C and C++, so if you know how to do that, then you are ready to go.

Just write your program in C/C++ and then (and this is very important) compile the code using the right compiler for the board (in the website is says you need to use the *GNU EABI cross compilation tool chain*, which you can probably get at their site).

After you have an executable, load it to the board (I use ftp) and then telnet (or ssh) to it to run the software.

Good luck!

(The boards I use are in [www.embeddedarm.com](www.embeddedarm.com) if you want to take a look)

---

### Post by kuin on 2010-02-07
thanks MindSz
I using eclipse (C++ language) and I copile using *GNU EABI cross compilation tool chain *like website say.

where I have to put the executable file in my embedded processor directory and run automatically when the power is turn on.

I heard from someone that the program can run when power on if I put it in start up.

can you explain where the file should I put? I use linux for my embedded processor.

I don't understand how to use embedded processor, I am still learning. 
thank for helping me.:P:KS

---

### Post by kuin on 2010-03-10
someone help me pleas.........!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by MindSz on 2010-03-10
Hey kuin,

In the processor I work on, if you want to make a program run at start up, you need to go to /etc/rc.d/rc3.d and then add a new link to the program you want to run```
ln -s /root/myprog S60mystartup
```

I don't know if this applies to your system, but maybe it'll help you look in the right place.

---

### Post by kuin on 2010-03-16
It means I can put the executable files in any place?

---

### Post by MindSz on 2010-03-16
Well ... yeah, but you should link them from wherever your system needs them to be

---

