---
title: "PHP &amp; Python"
date: 2006-07-08
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by DolphinWeb on 2006-07-08
Just wondering...Anyways, can you combine PHP and Python? Not such that both run at the same time with the same file and all...I'm asking how one would use PHP as a Python module, and vice-versa.

 Simply stated: I'm a web-developer, and I learned PHP, then Python. I've got Python to run in apache via mod_python. But, many PHP functions that are designed for cleaning code and results are not avaiable in Python. Therefore, I'd like to know a way to use those functions in Python.

 One way would be to create a wrapper for Python that wraps PHP. Anyone know how? Any other solutions?

---

### Post by yaaarrrgg on 2006-07-10
You might be able to port the missing PHP functions to Python, since PHP is open source. 

IMO, I'd try to stick with just one language for the project, if possible.  If you mix two languages, you effectively double the complexity of the project's requirements.  THat means it may be harder to maintain, port, or may lend itself to little glitches.  What happens if PHP is upgraded to the next version?  Or if Python upgrades?

---

### Post by DolphinWeb on 2006-07-10
> You might be able to port the missing PHP functions to Python, since PHP is open source. 

Love to, can't. I was never that good at reading the PHP source...

> IMO, I'd try to stick with just one language for the project, if possible. If you mix two languages, you effectively double the complexity of the project's requirements.
Meh. I'd live with it...until...

> THat means it may be harder to maintain, port, or may lend itself to little glitches. What happens if PHP is upgraded to the next version? Or if Python upgrades?
Now. You made a good point. If someone were to post some way of doing things featured in PHP in Python, it'd be very appreciated.

Spefically, I want to strip HTML tags, and have some sort of code2html syntax highlighter. There are other things I would like to see, but I don't remeber them.

---

### Post by Mirrorball on 2007-07-11
Bumping an old thread. I have a PHP library and I'd like to use it with my Python app. If anyone has any insight, I would appreciate it.

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2007-07-11
> **Mirrorball said:**
> Bumping an old thread. I have a PHP library and I'd like to use it with my Python app. If anyone has any insight, I would appreciate it.

What exactly do you need? Most ppl use PHP for webpages: do you want to generate HTML snippets by mix of PHP and Python? Or you want mixed web app, where some pages are generated by PHP and others by Python?

---

### Post by Mirrorball on 2007-07-12
I have a Python (Django) application for my site and I would like to call functions from a PHP library (HTML Purifier) in this Python application. I'm thinking of writing a Python module in C that executes arbitrary PHP code.

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2007-07-12
Maybe it would be simpler to find a HTML purifier directly in Python?

---

### Post by EndPerform on 2007-07-12
Before going through the trouble of trying to write a wrapper, check out the Python Cheese shop, here: [http://cheeseshop.python.org/pypi](http://cheeseshop.python.org/pypi)

There are a lot of different modules, perhaps it may have something useful for you.

---

### Post by Mirrorball on 2007-07-12
I couldn't find anything that would solve my problem. :(

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2007-07-13
What about: 

[http://cheeseshop.python.org/pypi/tidybot/1.6.1](http://cheeseshop.python.org/pypi/tidybot/1.6.1) : A batch (X)HTML syntax-checker and report-generator.

Tidybot traverses one or more source directories, and runs all HTML files it finds through the TidyLib checker, collecting all warnings and errors it encounters and presenting them nicely in an XHTML report. 

[http://cheeseshop.python.org/pypi/uTidylib/0.2](http://cheeseshop.python.org/pypi/uTidylib/0.2) Wrapper for HTML Tidy at [http://tidy.sourceforge.net](http://tidy.sourceforge.net)

A wrapper for the relocatable version of HTML Tidy (see [http://tidy.sourceforge.net](http://tidy.sourceforge.net) for details). This allows you to tidy HTML files through a Pythonic interface.

Edit: and [html-sanitizer](http://genshi.edgewall.org/wiki/Documentation/filters.html#html-sanitizer) part of excellent Genshi templating system, which is part of TurboGerars

---

### Post by Mirrorball on 2007-07-13
html-sanitizer is interesting, thanks! Tidy is more for whole documents, not for filtering malicious code from snippets.

---

