---
title: "./bootstrap?"
date: 2006-07-18
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by patbuntu on 2006-07-18
Hi,

I'm trying to follow [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=211810&highlight=nokia+usb") guide to get my phone working over usb with ubuntu.

> 
$ mkdir ~/usbobex
$ cd openobex
$ [COLOR="Red"]./bootstrap[/COLOR]
$ ./configure --prefix=$HOME/usbobex --enable-apps
$ make
$ make install 


./bootstrap gives me the following error:

bash: ./bootstrap: No such file or directory

I've got build-essential installed and I've not really had any problems compiling anything so far, apart from schoolboy errors or not following instructions properly ;) 

If I ignore this command and configure->make->install everything seems ok.  I get path / environment problems when installing obexftp later in the guide, which I think may be something to do with this though.

So I suppose my question is what is ./bootstrap used for and when should it be used.  Also, what package should I have installed that I don't have?

Thanks for any help...

-Pat

---

### Post by fdamstra on 2006-07-18
Can you run 'ls -l bootstrap' and 'head bootstrap' and post the results here?

There are three possibilities that occur to me:
1) The 'bootstrap' program doesn't exist.
2) The 'bootstrap' program isn't executable.
3) The "shebang" line (the first line of the program that begins "#!") is specifying a program that doesn't exist.

---

### Post by patbuntu on 2006-07-18
Theres no bootstrap file in the directory:

~/obexftp-0.20$ ls -l bootstrap
ls: bootstrap: No such file or directory
~/obexftp-0.20$ head bootstrap
head: cannot open `bootstrap' for reading: No such file or directory

I was thinking it was some sort of external build tool that would be picked up automatically.  Is that wrong?

-Pat

---

### Post by fdamstra on 2006-07-18
The './' before bootstrap means that it's an executable that's supposed to be in the current directory.

Further, I started that guide and checked out the latest version from cvs, and there is indeed a 'bootstrap' executable there.  So I'm guessing that you missed a step?

His cvs checkout procedure seemed to have some typos and extra spaces.  It should be:
```
$ cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@openobex.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/openobex login
$ cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@openobex.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/openobex co -P openobex
```
This will create a directory called 'openobex' under the current one which will include a 'bootstrap' program.

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by patbuntu on 2006-07-18
I must have missed something, because I just deleted everything, started again it works.

I'm not really any further with obexftp, but at least I've eliminated the first error I ignored


Thanks for your help,

-Pat

---

