---
title: ".net book"
date: 2010-01-02
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by diafanos on 2010-01-02
Hello everybody and happy new year...

I want to start learning the .net framework and I will appreciate if anyone can propose one or two .net books.


thanks in advance.

---

### Post by matsuzine on 2010-01-02
I've been pretty happy with the Andrew Troelsen books by Apress.  I think he offers a VB and a C# version, and it has enough coverage of the framework that you can use the book as a reference and dig into the API for more details.

---

### Post by diafanos on 2010-01-03
Thanks you matsuzine:)

I'll give it a try...

---

### Post by SunSpyda on 2010-01-03
Sorry for posting something non-Linux related, but the documentation that comes with VS .NET is very good at learning any of the .NET languages.

But of course, you're on Linux, so I recommend PDF e-books like 'C# in a Nutshell', or 'C# 3.0 - The Complete Reference'.

The nice thing about those two books is that neither of them talk about VS .NET or other MS-specific stuff (bar a few MS-specific libraries). They just talk about the framework and the C# language, making them quite suitable for both MS .NET and Mono development.

So grab the Mono development tools, some e-books, possibly an IDE, and maybe even the GTK# libraries and get programming! :)

EDIT - I was assuming that you want to learn C#, seeing as that's Mono's primary language, and Mono being the most popular *portable* .NET implementation.

---

### Post by diafanos on 2010-01-03
no worries SunSpyda...
After all, the whole thread is non-Linux related :)

Thank you too, for your suggestions. 
Unfortunately, I need to learn the .NET framework because it is required in my new job,
and I will use it to build -mainly- windows applications.

---

### Post by SunSpyda on 2010-01-03
In that case, the VS .NET documentation is your best bet :) I found it to be excellent.

And if your doing Windows-only development, then WPF is probably what you will use for GUIs - which also involves XML. So that's GTK# out the window :)

---

### Post by diafanos on 2010-01-03
thanks again mate

---

