---
title: ".NET and Mono"
date: 2013-05-24
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Greenbald on 2013-05-24
Hey guys. I'm here to ask how .NET and Mono works, the difference between those. They're developtment platform where i can program a app to run in a OS that has this framework? And what is the utility for this?!

---

### Post by Leuchten on 2013-05-24
The difference between mono and .net is that .net contains the windows only CLR for C# and other .net languages. Mono is an implementation of the CLR that is multiplatform, but significantly slower than the .net CLR. You can develop programs for both using monodevelop. The utility of this is writing applications that easily and seamlessly work between multiple platforms with minimal loss in speed.

---

### Post by WitchCraft on 2013-05-24
Answer: Just like Java, just better ;)
.NET is a bytecode, just like Java. 
This means there is a VM to run the code. 
The compiler (mono-mcs) runs ontop the VM, which is why the compiler for C# is written in C#.

Unlike Java, .NET is compiled, not interpreted, which means simple instructions it executes are actually translated to native code at compile-time.
But that still means it calls into code that runs on the VM, and it uses garbage collection, which makes the whole things slower.
Mainly, that means unlike Java, a .NET program doesn't take half an hour to startup.

So for you that means as soon as you have the right version of the VM and the right version of the framework libraries installed, you can run .NET programs on Linux.
The executables the mono-compiler creates are binary compatible to the ones the Visual Studio compiler creates, so you can run a .NET program on Linux (if it doesn't pinvoke the Windows API), and you can run a program written in mono on Windows (if it doesn't pinvoke the Linux/Xorg API).

You can install the mono runtime by doing
```

apt-get install mono-complete

```

And you can start creating .NET programs on Linux with monodevelop
```

apt-get install monodevelop

```


you can start your .NET programs with
```

mono /path/to/your/executable.exe

```

You should use C# on Linux, because VB.NET is a bit of a 2nd class citizen.
You can create a console program with monodevelop, and then you can use any C# tutorial you'd like.


Windows forms is a bit lacking, but you can write programs with GTK# and use Glade to design the UI.
I would not do that, I would look into web application, like ASP.NET MVC3 or MVC4, which is something you can also do with mono.
You start the mono webserver (xsp4) and let it serve your webpages.

---

### Post by DaviesX on 2013-05-24
The compiler for c# shouldn't have been written in c#. Both java and .net are compiled, but not linked

---

### Post by Leuchten on 2013-05-24
> Unlike Java, .NET is compiled, not interpreted, which means simple instructions it executes are actually translated to native code at compile-time.

Both the CLR and the JVM interpret bytecode, and both use a JIT compiler to convert their bytecode into native code. You can read more on JIT here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just-in-time_compilation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just-in-time_compilation)

The reason for the slow startup of the JVM is how heavyweight the standard library is and the lack of modularisation of said library. Project jigsaw has shown significant reductions in jvm load time and initial memory reductions. You can read more on it here: [http://mreinhold.org/blog/modular-java-platform](http://mreinhold.org/blog/modular-java-platform)

---

