---
title: "Cygwin / Shell / Perl script"
date: 2008-04-16
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by SNYP40A1 on 2008-04-16
I have this perl script that I am trying to execute in Cygwin:

my @lines = `cd ./samples; ls *.frag; ../`;
my $string;

for($i = 0; i < 1; $i++)
{
	$string = $lines[$i];
	print $string;
	`./dcc-ref.exe < ./samples/$string >& ./refout.txt`;
	`./dcc.exe < ./samples/$string >& ./out.txt`;
	`diff refout.txt out.txt`;
}

It runs and I can see the two output files, refout.txt and out.txt are created, however, nothing ends up in these files.  The files are empty.  I can see that error messages generated by the dcc.exe appear to the cygwin shell output window, however, nothing is dumped into the out.txt files.  The error messages indicate that the input files in the ./samples directory are being fed into the .exe programs correctly.  However, no output in the files.  Any idea why?  There is probably an easier way to do this, but I am unfamiliar with shell programming and Perl looked like the easiest way.

---

### Post by ghostdog74 on 2008-04-16
> **SNYP40A1 said:**
> There is probably an easier way to do this, but I am unfamiliar with shell programming and Perl looked like the easiest way.

is there any reason you are using Cygwin? If not, use Perl itself.
```

chdir("samples")
while (<*.flag> ){
  print "filename " . $_;
  open(FILE,$_ ) or die "Cannot open file: $!";
     cmd= "dcc-ref.exe < ./samples/$_";
     print cmd . "\n";
      # execute the command code here.......
  close(FILE)
} 

```
for file comparison, you can look into File::Compare module....the rest you figure out yourself...

---

### Post by SNYP40A1 on 2008-04-16
I am trying to run on a Windows machine, Cygwin has perl.  

Perl is probably overkill or not the right way to go about this.  All I am trying to do is go into that directory, ./samples/

Then do an BASH ls *.frag to get all files with a .frag extension.

Then for each file, execute these commands:

./dcc-ref.exe < ./samples/badstring.frag >& ./outref.txt
./dcc.exe < ./samples/badstring.frag >& ./out.txt

dcc-ref.exe and dcc.exe are two scanners.  I am trying to feed them both the same file and then dump the output into 2 seperate text files.

Finally, I diff the two text files:

diff outref.txt out.txt

But I want to do that for every ".frag" file inside the sample directory.

---

### Post by MrFSL on 2008-04-16
> am trying to run on a Windows machine, Cygwin has perl. 

I think what he was driving at is that you don't need Cygwin for perl... most people use Activestate Perl.

---

### Post by SNYP40A1 on 2008-04-16
Yes, Activestate also works, but that .exe file was compiled with gcc under Cygwin so I need to execute it under the Cygwin shell.

---

### Post by ghostdog74 on 2008-04-16
so use Cygwin bash
```

cd ./samples
for files in *.frag
do
 ./dcc-ref.exe < "$files" > refout.txt
 ./dcc.exe < "$files" > out.txt
  diff refout.txt out.txt
done 

```

---

### Post by SNYP40A1 on 2008-04-16
<Deleted>

---

