---
title: "C"
date: 2012-10-06
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by tehcavil on 2012-10-06
why do most open source linux programs seem to use ISO C over other languages(including C++), even for seemingly trivial programs that can be written in much easier languages. You don't really need the low level of C for many of these programs.

Any particular reason for this or is it just a common preference in the gnu/linux community?

---

### Post by satsujinka on 2012-10-06
Here's just a casual run down of possible reasons:
[LIST]
[*]C is guaranteed to be available.
[*]C has libraries for just about everything.
[*]The underlying implementation of a great many things is in C, so using C gives you easy access to them.
[*]C is generally easy to interface with from other languages, so many libraries get written for it (see the second point.)
[*]C's fast.
[*]C's not too complicated.
[*]It doesn't matter what language you pick if the problem is trivial.
[*]C's a popular language (perhaps the most popular.) Means that there's more potential for external aid.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by trent.josephsen on 2012-10-06
I don't like the implication that there's something wrong with C or that one needs to justify one's decision to use it for one's own project, so I'll turn the question back on you: Why should you use any other language (especially C++) when C is available?

Edit: Just to say I'm not suggesting C is the best language or should be a default choice, I just want to highlight the preposterousness of the question.

---

### Post by MadCow108 on 2012-10-06
> **trent.josephsen said:**
> I don't like the implication that there's something wrong with C or that one needs to justify one's decision to use it for one's own project, so I'll turn the question back on you: Why should you use any other language (especially C++) when C is available?

if you write something communicates with the outside world you should be able to justify why you chose C.
It is very hard to write secure code with C.
Of course its also hard with other languages but with C it is easier to make mistakes.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2012-10-06
> **MadCow108 said:**
> 
It is very hard to write secure code with C.


No, it is very easy. You just have to know what you are doing. Just becaus a lot of people who use C are not competent to use it is not an argument against C.

*EDIT:* Besides, writing secure code in Java or Python is a lot more difficult because keeping track of what exactly happens to your data through all the levels of abstraction requires very deep knowledge of the language, not just programming competency. In C, nothing is hidden.

---

### Post by |{urse on 2012-10-06
Idk about C being more or less secure, and so far as how 'hard/difficult/easytomakemistakes' it is, I'd call that the coders level of experience with C, what's already learned is not easy or hard and greatly depends on your understanding, memory and wpm.

[http://www.ioccc.org](http://www.ioccc.org)

A few award-winning examples of how naughty you can be with obfuscation and C..
I'm trying to figure this one out still.. lol

[http://www.ioccc.org/2011/akari/akari.c](http://www.ioccc.org/2011/akari/akari.c) <-- Can anyone tell what the obfusc is?

[http://www.ioccc.org/2011/akari/hint.html](http://www.ioccc.org/2011/akari/hint.html)

---

### Post by trent.josephsen on 2012-10-06
Okay, maybe asking a stupid question wasn't the best way to convey the point I wanted to get across...

There's this notion, which seems to be pretty popular among inexperienced programmers, that C has been somehow obsoleted by higher level languages. In high school I bought a copy of K&R2 and all my programming friends acted like I must be dumb, like I'd decided to learn QuickBASIC, or Coptic, or COBOL. Many people seem to think C++ is the "next version" of C -- an understandable mistake, I guess -- and therefore new development should use the new language instead of the old. There's a tendency to forget that development is continuous on all abstraction levels, from Verilog to Prolog, and the invention of new tools for growing application domains does not render the old tools redundant.

</soapbox>

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2012-10-06
> **Bachstelze said:**
> 
*EDIT:* Besides, writing secure code in Java or Python is a lot more difficult because keeping track of what exactly happens to your data through all the levels of abstraction requires very deep knowledge of the language, not just programming competency. In C, nothing is hidden.

Well, that part is more the responsibility for the language sandbox itself being secure from the start. There is little you can do if the platform is insecure, and IMO it really is not a real solution to know all the possible glitches it may have and to adapt to them.

---

### Post by ofnuts on 2012-10-06
> **tehcavil said:**
> why do most open source linux programs seem to use ISO C over other languages(including C++), even for seemingly trivial programs that can be written in much easier languages. You don't really need the low level of C for many of these programs.

Any particular reason for this or is it just a common preference in the gnu/linux community?

The whole KDE environment is written in C++...

---

### Post by tehcavil on 2012-10-06
Hey I didn't mean to put down C I was just wondering why so many seemed to prefer it. thanks for all your answers.

---

