---
title: "Need a random number generator in my C++ guess the number game"
date: 2008-06-03
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by CoffeeBreath on 2008-06-03
Hi
I want to throw a random number generator into my program here. I've tried a few ways from other codes online but cant them to work. Can anyone help?





#include <iostream>
using namespace std;


int main() {
int    n, x;
     cout <<"This is a guess the number game." <<endl;
     cout <<"This game is also my first progam that I've written on my own." <<endl;
     cout <<"It's so amateur that you can play it only once." <<endl;
     cout <<"If you try to play it again you'll just be guessin' the same number." <<endl;
     cout <<"start guessin':";
     
     n = 13;
     cin  >> x;
     while (x < n){
         cout <<"Higher!Try again:";
         cin  >> x;
         
     }while (x > n){
         cout <<"Lower!Try again:";
         cin  >> x;
     
     }if (x == n) {
         cout <<"Bingo!!!";
     }

     

     cout<< endl;

return 0;

}

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-06-03
Can you put your code in [code] or [php] tags next time ;)

[php] tag's color code the code :)

---

### Post by amingv on 2008-06-03
Always post your code in [PHP] tags to make it more readable.
I'm not an expert in randomness, but I did stumble with a program that uses /dev/urandom to generate random numbers (not the time). If you're developing under Linux, it may give you an idea:
http://sirnuke.degrendel.com/wiki/c_random.php

It is very easy to implement, too.

If you need a smaller number, just get the modulus with the maximum number you need.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-06-03
Easiest way is to use the standard library function for that. rand() and srand().

---

### Post by CoffeeBreath on 2008-06-03
I wrote this with kate but, i see the identation and colors didn't transfer well. Is there anyway to do this when posting? How can I add PHP tags?

---

### Post by amingv on 2008-06-03
> **CoffeeBreath said:**
> I did this with kate but, i see the identation and colors didn't transfer well. Is there anyway to do this when posting. Next time I could indent manually.

Colors from Kate or any other editor can't be transfered (In fact, they aren't even there :)), you can't indent in a normal post either.
When you post your code just click on the PHP tag button (The last one in the second row that looks like a small sheet of paper) and paste your code in the middle of the [ PHP ] [ /PHP ] tags.

See a comparison (and explanation) here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=641693](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=641693)

EDIT: Gah!! Link was bad. I put the right one now.

---

### Post by Phenax on 2008-06-03
Using /dev/urandom is fine, but if you want to run it on something that doesn't have /dev/urandom, you're out of luck. It's easy to do it just using standard libraries in C++:

[php]
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main() {
        srand(time(NULL) + getpid());
        cout << rand();
}[/php]Explanation:
srand function sets the "seed" for a psuedo-random number. Each seed gives you a different number. I get the seed from the current time added to the process id. You can use anything that is relatively unique for a seed.

[php]cout << rand();[/php] outputs the random number generated by the seed. The easiest way to put a maximum would be to do [php]cout << (rand() % 11);[/php] Which would give you a maximum of 10. Just do a modulo by whatever you want + 1. For minimums, it's more complex, but if you can't get Google to give you an answer, post here and I can clarify it for you.

---

### Post by JupiterV2 on 2008-06-03
LaRosa is correct, the easiest way is to use the C standard library's psuedo-random number generator:

[PHP]#include <iostream>

#include <cstdlib> /* rand(), srand() */
#include <ctime>   /* time() */

int main()
{
    int x = 0;

    /* sets the seed for the random number generator to current time */
    srand( time(NULL) );

    std::cout << "Printing 10 random numbers between 0 and 9:\n";
    while( x < 10 ) std::cout << (rand() % 10) << std::endl;

    return 0;
}[/PHP]

---

### Post by Bichromat on 2008-06-04
> **Phenax said:**
> The easiest way to put a maximum would be to do [php]cout << (rand() % 11);[/php] Which would give you a maximum of 10. Just do a modulo by whatever you want + 1. For minimums, it's more complex, but if you can't get Google to give you an answer, post here and I can clarify it for you.

Argh, but this won't give a uniform distrbution ! You need to do something like this:
```

rand_num=(int)(rand()/(double)RAND_MAX*range + min);

```

Where range is max-min, with max (min) = max (min) number you want.

---

### Post by abraxas334 on 2008-06-04
depends how good the random number generator has to be. the one that comes with stl is not great. I ten to use "MersenneTwister"
It is easy to use and u can get random doubles as well as integers and stuff. To use it just get MersenneTwister.h from the internet.
Within the code:
```

#include MersenneTwister.h
.....
//something like
MTRand mt;

int main(int argc, char** argv) {
float rand;
int rand1;

rand = mt(); //for floating point
rant1 = mt.randInt(5); //for integer between 0 and 5 inclusive
return 0;

}





```

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2008-06-04
Yes in fact good random numbers generators are not easy to find.

Among the most common decent ones the Park-Miller (most known for it's appearance on Numerical Recipes book) it's very used:
[http://www.firstpr.com.au/dsp/rand31/](http://www.firstpr.com.au/dsp/rand31/)

Or the ones on GSL (the gnu scientific library):
[http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/manual/html_node/Random-Number-Generation.html](http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/manual/html_node/Random-Number-Generation.html)

For hard scientific applications, L'Ecuyer generator it's very used too, due to it's huge period (also in Numerical Recipes):
[http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~lecuyer/](http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~lecuyer/)

---

### Post by CoffeeBreath on 2008-06-04
> **Phenax said:**
> Using /dev/urandom is fine, but if you want to run it on something that doesn't have /dev/urandom, you're out of luck. It's easy to do it just using standard libraries in C++:

[php]
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main() {
        srand(time(NULL) + getpid());
        cout << rand();
}[/php]Explanation:
srand function sets the "seed" for a psuedo-random number. Each seed gives you a different number. I get the seed from the current time added to the process id. You can use anything that is relatively unique for a seed.

[php]cout << rand();[/php] outputs the random number generated by the seed. The easiest way to put a maximum would be to do [php]cout << (rand() % 11);[/php] Which would give you a maximum of 10. Just do a modulo by whatever you want + 1. For minimums, it's more complex, but if you can't get Google to give you an answer, post here and I can clarify it for you.

Thanks for this. It' s giving me exactly what I need. Now to find out how to insert it into my program. I've tried a few times but, a little to tired to really put my mind to it.

---

### Post by CoffeeBreath on 2008-06-04
> **amingv said:**
> Colors from Kate or any other editor can't be transfered (In fact, they aren't even there :)), you can't indent in a normal post either.
When you post your code just click on the PHP tag button (The last one in the second row that looks like a small sheet of paper) and paste your code in the middle of the [ PHP ] [ /PHP ] tags.

See a comparison (and explanation) here:
[http://sirnuke.degrendel.com/wiki/c_random.php](http://sirnuke.degrendel.com/wiki/c_random.php)

This was an awesome link. Thanks. I'll have try my program with dev/urandom next.

---

