---
title: "a.out my first c program"
date: 2012-11-06
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Kevin McCready on 2012-11-06
I'm using The C programming Language By Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie.

I managed to compile my program using cc

But when I run
a.out
at the command line it says "command not found"

when I cat a.out  the terminal gives me lots of gobbledigook.

My lubuntu is Ubuntu 11.10
Linux version 3.0.0-22-generic-pa

I'm using LXTerminal emulator 0.1.11

Maybe there's a c or c+ problem?

---

### Post by lisati on 2012-11-07
*Thread moved to **Programming Talk**.*

Try this:
```

./a.out

```

---

### Post by Kevin McCready on 2012-11-07
Thanks. That worked.
I've googled for a while but can't figure out what  /.  is or what it's used for.  I can't find it listed in linux commands

---

### Post by codemaniac on 2012-11-07
in unix file system "." represents your current directory.
"./a.out" means you are trying to run a.out file residing in the current directory.

---

### Post by Kevin McCready on 2012-11-07
thanks again
the file a.out was in the current directory so
I'm curious why it didn't run properly without the ./

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2012-11-07
system looks for programs in places listed in PATH variable. For good reasons . is not there.
```
echo $PATH
```
Let's say you want to run firefox
*/usr/bin/firefox* is the full path and you will launch ff using it, but *firefox* alone will do too, because */usr/bin* is one of the standard paths the system will check and you can skip it.
in case of random binaries like a.out in current directory you don't have that luxury, you have to clearly indicate 'run a.out located here'

---

### Post by Kevin McCready on 2012-11-07
Hey that's cool. Thank you so much for a great explanation.

I've decided I want to program enough so I can alter the behaviour of leafpad. I want to change it so it doesn't make any sounds.

---

