---
title: "How to debug a large project using &quot;GDB&quot;?"
date: 2010-06-30
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by jeremy28 on 2010-06-30
Hi all!

I'm using ubuntu 9.04;
I want to debug my project that comprises mutiple files and it's Makefile is as below:
```
OS = LINUX

PROG = rawusb_test

ifeq ($(OS), LINUX)
TARGET = $(PROG)
CC = g++
STRIP = strip
CFLAGS = -Wall -O2 -DOS_$(OS) -DDEBUG
LIBS = -static libusb.a 

endif

OBJS = $(PROG).o hid.o PKI_Buf.o

all: $(TARGET)

$(PROG): $(OBJS)
	$(CC) -o $(PROG) $(OBJS) $(LIBS)
	$(STRIP) $(PROG)

hid.o: hid_$(OS).cpp hid.h
	$(CC) $(CFLAGS) -c -o $@ $<

PKI_Buf.o: PKI_Buf.cpp
	$(CC) $(CFLAGS) -c -o $@ $<

clean:
	rm -f hid.o $(PROG) $(PROG).o $(PROG).exe $(PROG).dmg
	rm -rf tmp
```
I've learnt how to debug a "Simple & Single" program using "GDB", but I have problem in debugging such a project!

When I cd to the project folder and run the command "gdb rawusb_test", I see the result:
```
(no debugging symbols found)
```
 
When I want to set a breakpoint using the command:
```
b 20
```
 
I see the result:
```
No symbol table is loaded.  Use the "file" command.
```
 
Once I tried the flag -g and changed the line "$(CC) -o $(PROG) $(OBJS) $(LIBS)" to "$(CC) -g -o $(PROG) $(OBJS) $(LIBS)", it didn't work!

I want to trace the program "rawusb_test" line by line and see the parameters' values!

Could you help me how I should debug this project or how the Makefile should be changed?
 
Or how can presence/absence of debug info be checked, for example, by 'objdump'?


TIA.

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2010-06-30
Augment the following to include the -g option, which is required if you want symbolic information included in your executable.
```

CFLAGS = **-g** -Wall -O2 -DOS_$(OS) -DDEBUG

```

You could also simplify your Makefile a bit; I'm not sure if you wrote it or if it was generated by an IDE.


P.S.  Why are you calling "strip" on a program that you want to debug?  It will strip away the symbolic information from the executable, which makes using the -g option moot.

---

### Post by jeremy28 on 2010-07-01
Hi and thanks
 
I added -g option in the mentioned line and also commented out the lines:
```
 
STRIP = strip
$(STRIP) $(PROG)

```
 
But again, I see:
```
(no debugging symbols found)
```
and
```
No symbol table is loaded.  Use the "file" command.
```
 
I've not written this Makefile myself and only want to debug the program "./rawusb_test" to trace the variables' values;
 
But I don't know why this problem isn't resolved?!!
 
Regards.

---

### Post by schauerlich on 2010-07-01
did you make clean && make all ?

---

### Post by jeremy28 on 2010-07-07
Hi
 
When I write "gdb ./myprogram" in terminal, I see:
```
GNU gdb 6.8-debian
Copyright (C) 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.  Type "show copying"
and "show warranty" for details.
This GDB was configured as "i486-linux-gnu"...
```
 
And when I write "b 20" to set a breakpoint at 20th line of code, I see:
```
Breakpoint 1 at 0x8048150: file ../sysdeps/i386/elf/start.S, line 20.
```
Afterwards, when I run "r" command, I expect that the program runs till 20th line and then I can write "n" command line by line to see the parameters' values and memory contents, but I face with the program's complete running without any stop on line 20!!

What is the solution please?!

TIA.

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2010-07-07
I presume by now you have figured out how to build your application with symbolic information that is necessary for debugging, and that you are no longer stripping out this information after you link the application?  EDIT:  Nope!  You have not properly built your application for debugging.

If so, then the next logical step would be to post (at least the first 20 lines) of your code!  After all, oftentimes discoveries are made by those who attempt to resolve an issue where others have failed.

P.S.  Btw, where is this line of code?
```

Breakpoint 1 at 0x8048150: file ../sysdeps/i386/elf/start.S, line 20.

```
I would have expected to see that the breakpoint falls within a .cpp file.

---

### Post by jeremy28 on 2010-07-18
Hi and thanks of your help!
 
When I write "b myprogram.cpp:20" in gdb, I see the result:
(while, I'm in myprogram.cpp directory, of course!)
 
```
No source file named myprogram.cpp.
Make breakpoint pending on future shared library load? (y or [n]) y
Breakpoint 1 (myprogram.cpp:20) pending.
```

And then, I type the "r" command, but the program runs completely without any stop on line 20!
 
What is the reason please?!
 
THX.

---

### Post by phrostbyte on 2010-07-20
Either you do not have debugging information or your application never actually gets to line 20.

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2010-07-20
> **phrostbyte said:**
> Either you do not have debugging information ...
Yes!  But the OP is (I still think) oblivious to this.

---

### Post by soltanis on 2010-07-20
Stop stripping your executable and compile it with debugging information (-g) option as others have told you. Without doing this, debugging is going to be a lot less productive.

Your makefile is really confusing and needs to be simplified. If you can't figure out how to make it work, then stop using it and just compile your program using these options:

```

g++ -o rawusb_test -g -DDEBUG -DOS_LINUX PKI_buf.cpp hid_LINUX.cpp

```

Don't compile with optimizations; you don't need them for debugging and I get the feeling they will probably hinder these attempts.

---

