---
title: "Is this C any good?"
date: 2008-06-08
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by bobbocanfly on 2008-06-08
I've started learning C in the last couple of days. The only programming i have done before is C#.NET (Yeah, ages ago) and Python, so C is a big, big change.

I set myself the task of writing a simple pseudo-random password generator, but i'm unsure if my code is any good? Please be as harsh as possible, im pretty determined to learn C properly.

```
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int main()
{
    int bytes, pass, n, i;
    char * buffer;

    printf("How many passords do you want to generate? ");
    scanf("%d", &pass);

    printf("How long do you want each password to be? ");
    scanf("%d", &bytes);

    printf("\n");

    for (i=0; i<pass; i++)
    {
        buffer = (char *) malloc(bytes);

        if (buffer == NULL)
        {
            printf("Could not allocate memory...exiting");
            return 1;
        }

        for (n=0; n<bytes; n++)
        {
            buffer[n]=rand()%26 + 'a';
        }

        printf ("%s\n", buffer);
        free(buffer);
    }
    
    return 0;

}
```

---

### Post by LoneWolfJack on 2008-06-08
As I said in another thread, don't cast malloc. Other than that your code looks ok. It's also good to see the BSD virus has not yet infected everyone. Even though I personally prefer to tab the braces as well.

If you're looking for a real trashing of your code, sign up with one of the C mailing lists and claim that your code is superior to all other password generators. ;-)

---

### Post by slavik on 2008-06-08
As far as code style, it is good.

Here is my analysis:
-no #include <malloc.h>, how are you expecting for the compiler to know about malloc?
-you are not initializing rand() with a seed

The only other complaint can be about character sets (you are only allowing the 26 alphabetical characters) and the way you are using rand() (it is not a very good number generator).

---

### Post by Can+~ on 2008-06-08
> **slavik said:**
> -no #include <malloc.h>, how are you expecting for the compiler to know about malloc?

Maybe, because malloc is defined inside stdlib?

For a password generator, go grab all the characters between ' ' (space, 32) and '~' : [http://www.asciitable.com/](http://www.asciitable.com/). That way, you got Alphanumeric, and typical keyboard symbols !@"·$%&/)....

---

### Post by slavik on 2008-06-08
> **Can+~ said:**
> Maybe, because malloc is defined inside stdlib?

For a password generator, go grab all the characters between '\n' and '~' : [http://www.asciitable.com/](http://www.asciitable.com/)
since when?

---

### Post by Can+~ on 2008-06-08
> **slavik said:**
> since when?

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stdlib.h](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stdlib.h)

*edit*

Well, after taking a good look at the code:

-Why are you allocating and freeing each iteration of the loop? If all passwords will have the same length, then allocate once, generate things, and finally free it.
-printf("How many pass**W**ords do you want to generate? "); Typo.

Aside from that, and everything mentioned before, except the malloc.h thing, it's okay for common passwords. For strong passwords, you should get the /dev/random and urandom passwords generated by Linux.

---

### Post by Jessehk on 2008-06-08
Don't assume that the user will enter correct input. Rather than use scanf(), read in a line with fgets() and convert it to an integer with sscanf(). Check return values for input or format errors. See manpages for details.

---

### Post by s3r4phim on 2008-06-08
I would agree with the disdain of malloc. Honestly, though, C is overkill for a password generator. Try writing a shell or python script instead (unless this is just practise, in which case its fine).

---

### Post by dmm1285 on 2008-06-08
Would this be preferred:
buffer = malloc(number_characters*sizeof(char));

over
buffer = malloc(bytes);

They both end up with the same result, but from what I understand, the first is more idiomatically correct.

---

### Post by Jessehk on 2008-06-08
The second is far more frequent in C code. AFAIK (but don't quote me), a **char** is always 1 byte.

---

### Post by ajft on 2008-06-08
How very hard it is to tell the difference between someone honestly asking for help, and someone trying to get their homework done for them....

I'll merely suggest a C group for C questions, find lots of well written C and read it, and turn on all the warnings that your compiler has, read the warnings, understand the warnings, and correct the warnings if warranted.

---

### Post by kremit on 2008-06-08
you should malloc an extra byte and set the last byte of the buffer to 0 to null terminate the string.

---

### Post by jolilly on 2008-06-08
The code looks good, but one thing to remember is that in C, character strings are NULL terminated (\0).  The printf ("%s\n", buffer) statement expects a NULL terminator in buffer to delimit the end of the character string (i.e. password).

I do not see that you are setting a NULL terminator after the password characters are generated (to indicate the end of the string), so a core dump could occur of buffer does not happen to be initialized to zeros.  One approach you could take is to call calloc instead of malloc to initialize the buffer to zero before using it.

Also, you will need to allocate "buffer" to be one char larger than your password size (bytes) to accommodate the null terminator at the end of the string.

---

### Post by geirha on 2008-06-09
> **Jessehk said:**
> Don't assume that the user will enter correct input. Rather than use scanf(), read in a line with fgets() and convert it to an integer with sscanf(). Check return values for input or format errors. See manpages for details.

Or even better, take them in as command-line arguments.


@bobbocanfly
You need to seed the random number generator with srand(). A common way is to use time() (in <time.h>)
```

    srand( time(NULL) );

```

And also, the man-page for rand(3) states:
```

          "If  you  want  to  generate a random integer between 1 and 10, you
           should always do it by using high-order bits, as in

               j = 1 + (int) (10.0 * (rand() / (RAND_MAX + 1.0)));

           and never by anything resembling

               j = 1 + (rand() % 10);

           (which uses lower-order bits)."

```

---

### Post by bobbocanfly on 2008-06-09
Thanks for your feedback everyone. Was laughing at the person who thought this was homework help, I only with i was learning C at school. Currently we are 'learning' how to make websites in HTML, complete with <font> tag.

Also, to the person who suggested Python, thanks but as you said this is just a practise in learning C. I already have a Python password generator script (which interestingly enough ran just 0.03 seconds slower than my C code when generating 100, 1000 char passwords).

Anyway here is a 'fixed' version that should address some of the problems you guys raised:

```
/* passgen.c: Generate pseudo-random passwords 
   Copyright (C) David Futcher (bobbo) 2008
   <bobbocanfly@gmail.com> - rev 2

   Release under the GNU GPL License v2 or above */

#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <time.h>

int main(int argc, char** argv)
{
    int bytes, pass, n, i;
    char * buffer;

    /* Get user args */
    if (argc >= 3)
    {
        pass = atoi(argv[1]);
        bytes = atoi(argv[2]);

        /* Detects incorrect or stupid input */
        if (pass < 1) 
        {
            printf("%s <no. passwords to generate> <length of passwords>\n", argv[0]);
            return 1;
        }
        else if (bytes < 1)
        {
            printf("%s <no. passwords to generate> <length of passwords>\n", argv[0]);
            return 1;
        }
    }
    else
    {
        printf("%s <no. passwords to generate> <length of passwords>\n", argv[0]);
        return 1;
    }

    /* Set up dynamic memory + rand() seed */
    buffer = malloc(bytes+1);

    if (buffer == NULL)
    {
        printf("Could not allocate memory...exiting\n");
        return 1;
    }

    srand(time(NULL));

    /* Actual generation loop */
    for (i=0; i<pass; i++)
    {
        for (n=0; n<bytes; n++)
        {
            buffer[n] = 'a' + (31.0 * (rand() / (RAND_MAX + 1.0)));
        }
        
        buffer[bytes] = '\0';
    
        printf ("%s\n", buffer);
    }

    /* It worked! Get ready to exit */
    free(buffer);
    return 0;

}
```

---

