---
title: "Best HTML editor"
date: 2008-08-30
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by tc101 on 2008-08-30
I am using KompoZer, which was the best thing I could find a year ago.  KompoZer is just fine, but I wonder if there is anything better now.

---

### Post by Tomosaur on 2008-08-30
> **tc101 said:**
> I am using KompoZer, which was the best thing I could find a year ago.  KompoZer is just fine, but I wonder if there is anything better now.

Well Bluefish is a pretty decent editor for web-related stuff, but really if it's just HTML you're going for then any text editor with syntax highlighting should pretty much do the job. Bluefish handily closes tags and stuff for you though, and it just has quite a few handy features which mean I end up using it quite a bit.

---

### Post by -grubby on 2008-08-30
I'd suggest you use an html wysiwyg editor purely for design, but not use any of the code it produces, since the code happens to be horrible, invalid crap in most editors.

---

### Post by milton1 on 2008-08-30
I like kate or quanta myself.

---

### Post by fiddler616 on 2008-08-30
I used Screem exclusivey for my website
tmac.andrewmin.com
and it did not take long at all, and it felt good all the way through (that did NOT come out right...). It's not WYSIWYG, they call it WYSIWYM--What You See Is What You Mean
sudo aptitude install screem

---

### Post by Reiger on 2008-08-30
Well... if you want to work with raw HTML code and happen to have a Windows install (dunno about other OS'es that'll run it) you can of course try HTML kit. Purely DIY stuff -- though you can define templates and the like.

HTML kit comes with Tidy which is a Good Thing.

---

### Post by tc101 on 2008-08-30
> I'd suggest you use an html wysiwyg editor purely for design, but not use any of the code it produces

Would most people agree that it is not a good idea go use the code generated by a wysiwyg editor?  It takes so long to code that stuff by hand. KompoZer has been OK for the simple things I have done, but I do remember serious problems years ago when I was using Microsoft FrontPage.

---

### Post by gmxgeek on 2008-08-30
REAL programmers use nano!

lol. just kidding. But i do prefer nano to fancy gui apps to be honest

---

### Post by gmxgeek on 2008-08-30
> **tc101 said:**
> Would most people agree that it is not a good idea go use the code generated by a wysiwyg editor?  It takes so long to code that stuff by hand. KompoZer has been OK for the simple things I have done, but I do remember serious problems years ago when I was using Microsoft FrontPage.

I would say that wysiwyg editors usually do not output the best, cleanest, most efficient, or most readable code. If you do use that code, don't expect it to be standards compliant, or easy to modify, or particularly efficient

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-08-30
> **tc101 said:**
> Would most people agree that it is not a good idea go use the code generated by a wysiwyg editor?  It takes so long to code that stuff by hand. KompoZer has been OK for the simple things I have done, but I do remember serious problems years ago when I was using Microsoft FrontPage.

Kompozer has never let me down yet. MS FP is not a good wysiwyg, that thing spits out nothing but garbage.

Kompozer pages I've created always pass the W3C Validator; available here:
[http://validator.w3.org/](http://validator.w3.org/)

I wouldn't say its fair to lump Kompozer in with MS FP.

---

### Post by realitybites on 2008-08-31
among those editors, is there one which has tag matching / highlighting the matching tag?

---

### Post by host07 on 2008-08-31
I use screem or gedit for my editing.

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2008-08-31
I use Gedit aka Text Editor, works great after you have checked a few options!

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2008-08-31
Well, I seem to be the only one who uses Emacs for HTML!?

But I really agree at the end is much better to write the code yourself; it gives you much more control over what you want to be the webpage like.

gedit is very good also.

---

### Post by rogeriopvl on 2008-08-31
Gedit all the way. But sometimes I use vi (for quick edit).

But in my opinion the best one, is not available in Ubuntu, is for Mac only: Coda.

---

### Post by mssever on 2008-08-31
I use either vim or gedit for HTML. HTML isn't nearly so much typing if you restrict your HTML to only contain structural markup and do all your formatting and layout in CSS. Plus, the more you can move OUT of your HTML page and into some central location such as a site-wide CSS file, the easier your site will be to maintain.

I generally mistrust WYSIWYG editors after having several bad experiences many years ago. But my brother uses Dreamweaver for layout, and the code it produces is remarkably good--for WYSIWYG code. Dunno if an open source clone of Dreamweaver exists.

---

