---
title: "java app design question"
date: 2010-08-13
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by badperson on 2010-08-13
Okay, this seems really basic, and is maybe more obvious to others, but...

I'm writing a java app that connects to a database. In my data base, I'll pretty much always use an incrementing number as a primary key for the table, and call it something like some_table_id. Now when the java app searches for data in that table, sometimes I can get a unique value by searching for different values, like "select * from some_table where some_date = '2010-01-01' and some_title ='title'; 

But other times, I need to grab the id itself and use that to get the exact data I'm looking for. 

So, my issue is...I don't like coding the database id into the java app, because it seems to closely coupled to the particular database. So what I'm doing is creating a Properties object and setting the db id there. This is totally semantic, of course...it could work either way, but I'm wondering if there's a consensus either way. 

Propterties seems to me to be something temporary and not hard wired into the design of the app, which is why I'm doing it that way. 

your thoughts?
bp

---

### Post by r-senior on 2010-08-14
Overall the best way to handle this is to hide the complexity of your database access in a dedicated object. It's a common design pattern, called the Data Access Object (DAO).

The best way to do it is to create an interface for your DAO:

```

public interface MyThingDao {

    public long create(Thing thing);
    public Thing findThingByPrimaryKey(long id);
    ...
    public void delete(Thing thing);

}

```

Then you can create implementations of this DAO that deal with differences between databases if required.

```

public class MyThingDaoOracleImpl implements MyThingDAO {

    /**
     * Create a Thing in the database
     * @param thing the Thing to create
     * @return the generated primary key of the Thing
     */
    public long create(Thing thing) {
        ...
    }

    /**
     * Find a Thing using its primary key
     * @param id the primary key
     * @return the Thing
     */
    public Thing getThingByPrimaryKey(long id) {
        ...
    }

}

```

Then, instead of creating the DAO using "new MyThingDaoOracleImpl()", you'd have a factory:

```

public class DaoFactory {

    public static MyThingDAO getMyThingDao() {
        return new MyThingDAOOracleImpl();
    }

}

``` 

The calling code doesn't then know that it's getting an Oracle-specific DAO, so it's oblivious if you change the implementation by changing the factory (which could read a properties file to decide on the implementation).

```


    MyThingDao dao = DaoFactory.getMyThingDao();

    // I have no idea what implementation the factory has
    // given me here. I just deal with the interface.

    Thing thing = dao.findThingByPrimaryKey(id);


```

Looking further ahead, dependency injection frameworks like Spring manage this sort of thing for you. You can consider the core of Spring to be a generic factory that is configured with an XML file. Whichever way, it makes it easy to switch implementations without impacting your main code.

There are other issues to deal with but that's the basic idea.

Spring also provides JDBC templates and support classes that can greatly simplify writing DAOs and create more consistency and reliability, e.g. with error handling.

As far as primary keys in databases are concerned, you can usually make use of autogenerated primary keys instead of generating them yourself. You typically create the object, then ask the database for the key it used so that you can return it back to the calling code. This is where you tend to get differences between databases. Again, looking ahead, using something like Hibernate, apart from reducing the tedium of writing DAOs, insulates you from these differences.

---

### Post by badperson on 2010-08-14
awesome reply, exactly the kind of info I was looking for, thanks!
bp

---

### Post by ja660k on 2010-08-14
Also, in your sql. you really should have your primary keys auto incrementing.

in mysql its something like
```
table_id INT PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT
```
most database have similar if not the same syntax

and its good practice to construct prepared statements 
[http://download.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/jdbc/basics/prepared.html](http://download.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/jdbc/basics/prepared.html)

:)
Have fun.

---

### Post by badperson on 2010-08-14
hi,
the db tables do use auto increment, should have stated that above.

---

### Post by badperson on 2011-02-22
Hi,

Another question I have is in regards to getting data out of the db. (I implemented the pattern above, btw...)

Right now, I have get data out of the db using static methods. I have a method with overloaded signatures for various parameters in terms of what I want to get from the db...that method creates the sql, and then it calls another static method that actually gets the data. I'm usually dealing with lists of objects I want my webapp to display. 

Are static methods the right way to go there? Is there a better OO way of getting sets of data from the db? 

bp

---

### Post by Some Penguin on 2011-02-23
[http://jdbi.codehaus.org/]("http://jdbi.codehaus.org/")

Worth looking at.


Things to keep in mind include thread safety (note that, for instance, it is not necessarily safe to have the same PreparedStatement being used simultaneously by two different threads, because a PS is associated with a single ResultSet and there is no guarantee that a PS implementation isolates the ResultSet as ThreadLocal), robustness (connections die midquery, transactions get rolled back), not leaking resources (ResultSet, PreparedStatement, Connection are all Closeable, for instance), and not doing very large fetches in a single go (for instance, SELECTing a few million potentially wide rows may be very expensive; pay attention to how your JDBC driver handles ResultSets and cursors).

It can be quite useful to have helper functions which accept ResultSets and convert to your application's objects, if you're programming at the JDBC level.

---

