---
title: "busybox shell mode question"
date: 2010-10-15
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by teachop on 2010-10-15
Somehow I get the shell in my embedded linux system into a mode I don't understand.  My system uses busybox, I am root, talking to it over a serial port from minicom on my Ubuntu development machine.

It seems to be some kind of line edit mode maybe?  The prompt, which is normally "#" changes to ">".  A <TAB> character lists all lot of commands (completion?).  A control-l it clears the screen.  I can scroll back in history too.  If I bang about long enough it finally goes back to the normal prompt, or in worst case I reboot the thing.

I am sure this is a super dumb question, but I have googled about and looked at busybox and bash documentation and can't figure out.  What is this mode, and what is the proper exit method?

---

### Post by spjackson on 2010-10-15
I don't know about busybox, but normally a shell prompt changes to > when the command you submitted contains an unmatched quote. It is prompting you for the rest of the command. e.g.
```

$ echo 'hello
> world'
hello
world

```You get the same effect with unterminated double quote (") or back-tick (`). So, you either terminate the quote/double-quote/back-tick, or Ctrl-C should normally get you back to a normal prompt.

---

### Post by teachop on 2010-10-15
Ok.  The quote character idea fits.  I think an error message about unmatched backquote got me out one time.  For whatever reason control-C doesn't do the trick.  Probably a quote char is getting generated by noise (?) on the RS-232 somehow.

Thank you, I will try the quote keys next time.

---

