---
title: "About Python"
date: 2005-08-20
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by gheorghe_pop on 2005-08-20
Yesterday i found a website with a tutorial about programming with galde and python. So I took it and was verry impressed. Now the problem is this:
I want to pack my aplication and distribute to other ussers. How can I do that? I saw many python apps that had a file called setup.py and to install the program you just had to run "python setup.py install". How can I do that? And more can i integrate the glade file and the python source in one executableo when I distribute my program Ihave to put the glade file also?
Thanks!

---

### Post by ow50 on 2005-08-20
[QUOTE=gheorghe_pop]I saw many python apps that had a file called setup.py and to install the program you just had to run "python setup.py install". How can I do that?[/QUOTE]Python module [distutils](http://docs.python.org/lib/module-distutils.html)

[QUOTE=gheorghe_pop]And more can i integrate the glade file and the python source in one executableo when I distribute my program Ihave to put the glade file also?
Thanks![/QUOTE]The Unixy way would be to put the python source code files under $PREFIX/lib/appname or $PREFIX/lib/python2.4/site-packages/appname, Glade files under $PREFIX/share/appname and an executable start script under $PREFIX/bin. Here $PREFIX could be for example /usr or /usr/local and appname the name of your application.

---

### Post by gheorghe_pop on 2005-08-20
I was reading distutils but didn't understand anything. Cane some one give me a hint?
I have an app that has the following files:
bibi.py
bibi.glade
SimpleGladeApp.py
Can someone teach me how to write a setup.py for this app?
Thanks!

---

### Post by Retrix on 2005-08-20
I used distutils for a usage meter for my ISP. It's available at [http://users.on.net/~spohlenz/internode/](http://users.on.net/~spohlenz/internode/). Have a go at dissecting that. It shouldn't be too complicated.

-Sam

---

### Post by ow50 on 2005-08-20
distutils has one big fault. It does not provide any uninstallation and there's no way to create debian packages. So, to be user-friendly you should generate a list of installed files at installation time and provide a script to remove those files.

---

### Post by gheorghe_pop on 2005-08-21
I managed to write my first setup.py :) 
but now i have a new problem. It's about SimpleGladeApp.py. If I want to run my application this file must be in the folder that bibi.py(my application is) is. How can i change that and where should i put this file.This file is generated by tepache[[http://primates.ximian.com/~sandino/python-glade/]](http://primates.ximian.com/~sandino/python-glade/]). And the referece to it is made in bibi.py I think here:
```

...
[COLOR=Red]from SimpleGladeApp import SimpleGladeApp
from SimpleGladeApp import bindtextdomain[/COLOR]

app_name = "bibi"
app_version = "0.0.1"
...

```

---

### Post by gheorghe_pop on 2005-08-21
Yes!!!!
I've done it.I finaly figure it out. So tanks everyone for helping me out and here is my first working setup.py:
```
from distutils.core import setup
setup(name='bibi',
      version='1.0',
	description      = 'Aici intra descrierea',
	author           = 'Pop Gheorghe',
	author_email     = 'pop.gheorghe@rdslink.ro',
	url              = 'http://adresa web',
	license          = 'GPL',
        scripts=['bibi.py'],
	py_modules =['SimpleGladeApp'],
	data_files       = [('share/bibi',['share/bibi/bibi.glade'])],
      )
```

---

### Post by fng on 2005-08-23
Could you post the glade tutorial site?

EDIT:
Nevermind, i found it in another thread

[http://primates.ximian.com/~sandino/python-glade/](http://primates.ximian.com/~sandino/python-glade/)

---

