---
title: "Ruby - checking network availability"
date: 2006-04-10
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by skymt on 2006-04-10
I have a Ruby program that needs to access Internet resources (specifically, a user-specified list of RSS feeds). However, I need to verify that the computer is actually connected before trying, otherwise it hangs until it times out, which isn't acceptable for my design.

I haven't found an elegant way of doing that. I could check whether the eth0 interface is up, but that wouldn't account for ppp or wireless connections, or the possibility of a local network that's not linked to the Internet. I could ping a high-availability server (say, Google), but that's kludgy. Does anyone have any suggestions?

By the way, it doesn't have to be in Ruby. I could figure out an implementation if anyone has some more general suggestions, or maybe sample code in Perl or Python.

---

### Post by tomchuk on 2006-04-10
Why not just go for it and rescue the SocketError if things break? Maybe something like this (made up from borrowed bits from "Programming Ruby")
```

#!/usr/bin/env ruby

require 'rss/1.0'
require 'open-uri'
require 'thread'

feeds = %w( http://planet.ubuntu.com/rss10.xml http://planet.debian.org/rss10.xml )
threads = []
for feed in feeds
    threads << Thread.new(feed) do |url|
        open(url) do |http|
            resp = http.read
            result = RSS::Parser.parse(resp, false)
            puts "Channel: " + result.channel.title
            result.items.each_with_index do |item, i|
                puts " #{i+1}. #{item.title}" if i < 4
            end
        end
    end
end

begin
    threads.each {|th| th.join }
rescue SocketError
    puts "Oops, can't connect!"
rescue OpenURI::HTTPError
    puts "Oops, bad URL!"
end

```

---

### Post by skymt on 2006-04-11
That's pretty close to what I have right now. My implementation doesn't have threads, and uses a different RSS parser, but it still has the same essential problem. If there's no Internet connection, it hangs until timeout.

My project is a CGI script that, among other things, needs to parse and display an RSS feed. It's to be used on a LAN that may sometimes lack an Internet connection. In that case it needs to die gracefully with an HTML error message (RSS feed not available), not keep the user waiting for several minutes while it times out. Most of what the script will do can be done without Internet connectivity, so it's essential that this one feature doesn't keep the rest from loading.

I guess the best way to go now is an AJAX-ey solution, where the RSS loading is handled by a second Ruby script called by Javascript generated by the first. If anyone has a better solution (I really hate coding Javascript), I'd love to hear it!

---

