---
title: "KDevelop 3.4 - What packages do I need to install?"
date: 2007-05-31
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by daller on 2007-05-31
Hi there,

I'm trying to learn how to use KDevelop, and has hit a wall already!

When I try to compile a simply standard "Hello World" generated by KDevelop, I get this:

./admin/cvs.sh: 651: --version: not found
*** AUTOCONF NOT FOUND!.
*** KDE requires autoconf 2.53 or newer
make[1]: *** [cvs] Error 1
make: *** [all] Error 2
*** Exited with status: 2 ***

I have the package "autoconf" installed:

daniel@daniel-laptop:~$ sudo apt-cache show autoconf
Package: autoconf
Priority: optional
Section: devel
Installed-Size: 1676
Maintainer: Ubuntu Core Developers <ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com>
Original-Maintainer: Ben Pfaff <pfaffben@debian.org>
Architecture: all
Version: 2.61-3

The version is new enough, it seems...

What can I do?

---

### Post by adam93250 on 2007-05-31
Did you install them through synaptic? or did you use the add/remove?

---

### Post by GeneralZod on 2007-05-31
I've found setting up kdevelop to be enormously finicky under Kubuntu.

Try installing libtool and automake as well.

At some point, I'll bung a clean Kubuntu Feisty into Qemu and record the steps necessary to get it all working in a HOWTO.

---

### Post by daxumaming on 2007-05-31
> **GeneralZod said:**
> I've found setting up kdevelop to be enormously finicky under Kubuntu.

I agree.

---

### Post by daller on 2007-06-01
Those two packages did the trick...

Shouldn't KDevelop depend on these packages?

I've created a wiki-page for the installation:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KDevelop](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KDevelop)

---

### Post by daller on 2007-06-01
I get to the "install" stage now!

I gives me this:

test -z "/usr/bin" || /bin/mkdir -p "/usr/bin"
installing '/usr/bin/sigcreate'
installing denied
make[2]: *** [install-binPROGRAMS] Fejl 1
make[2]: Målet 'install-exec-am' ikke genskabt på grund af fejl.
test -z "/usr/share/applnk/Utilities" || /bin/mkdir -p "/usr/share/applnk/Utilities"
installing '/usr/share/applnk/Utilities/sigcreate.desktop'
installing denied

BTW: is there a way to make the output english? (It is danish, since the rest of my system is danish!)

If I start kdevelop as root, I can install it properly, but why is /usr/bin selected as default, for a development application?

---

### Post by daller on 2007-06-01
I'm running into some problems, trying to program a little...

The "Automake Manager" is mentioned in a tutorial! - Where is it?

---

### Post by GeneralZod on 2007-06-01
> **daller said:**
> I'm running into some problems, trying to program a little...

The "Automake Manager" is mentioned in a tutorial! - Where is it?

On a blank install, it should be here:

[http://etotheipiplusone.com/kdevelop-automake-manager.png](http://etotheipiplusone.com/kdevelop-automake-manager.png)


> If I start kdevelop as root, I can install it properly, but why is /usr/bin selected as default, for a development application?

When you're developing, you don't need to install (this would be a horrible waste of time!) - just run your project from the Debug menu :)

---

