---
title: "how to run python"
date: 2006-11-02
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by T-AA on 2006-11-02
Hello how would i run this?

i'm very new to this

> #!/usr/bin/ python

friend_list = ['liz' , 'tom' ,'Ralph']

print friend_list


I wrote this in kate(kubuntu dapper), and saved it as first.pyw.
Along with that file i got another one called first.pyw~, now when i open this i just get the konsole at tom@centurion... but nothing else happens.

---

### Post by duff on 2006-11-02
First make it executable, then run it.
```
# chmod +x first.pyw
# ./first.pyw
```

---

### Post by rplantz on 2006-11-02
> **T-AA said:**
> Hello how would i run this?

i'm very new to this



I wrote this in kate(kubuntu dapper), and saved it as first.pyw.
Along with that file i got another one called first.pyw~, now when i open this i just get the konsole at tom@centurion... but nothing else happens.

In addition to duff's comment, you have a typo in your program.
```

#!/usr/bin/python

```
tells the system to send what follows to the program /usr/bin/python. Notice that you have a space between "/" and "p".

In addition, you can use the command
```

which python

```
to make sure your python is indeed located at /usr/bin/python. If not, then use your location.

Also, the first.pyw~ file got generated by your editor, kate, when you changed first.pyw. Many editors do that for you automatically. It gives you one level of backup. In case you really mess up a file when you are editing it, take a look at the "~" version of it. You can "undo" all your new changes with the command
```

mv somefile~ somefile

```
(It's best to do things like this when you're not tired, in a rush, etc. :))

---

### Post by tseliot on 2006-11-02
> **rplantz said:**
> In addition to duff's comment, you have a typo in your program.
```

#!/usr/bin/python

```
tells the system to send what follows to the program /usr/bin/python. Notice that you have a space between "/" and "p".

Shouldn't it look like this?
```
#!/usr/bin/env python

```

---

### Post by tseliot on 2006-11-02
> **duff said:**
> First make it executable, then run it.
```
# chmod +x first.pyw
# ./first.pyw
```

OR you might just type this:
```
python first.pyw
```

---

### Post by rplantz on 2006-11-02
> **tseliot said:**
> Shouldn't it look like this?
```
#!/usr/bin/env python

```

Oops. Thank you for correcting my error.

---

### Post by T-AA on 2006-11-03
thx guys will give at try when i got the time

---

### Post by kurhula.com on 2009-07-28
> **tseliot said:**
> OR you might just type this:
```
python first.pyw
```

I'm new to both Python and Jython and was looking around for instructions on how to run Jython. I tried tseliot's suggestions but it just wouldn't work! chmod +x myprogram.extension seemed to work but when I ran ./myprogram.extension, I got the error "unexpected token '('". I then tried the other suggestion: python myprogram.extension, which returned the error "ImportError: No module named javax.swing". Out of desperation, I changed the 'p' into a 'j' and the rest is history!

---

### Post by JordyD on 2009-07-28
> **kurhula.com said:**
> I'm new to both Python and Jython and was looking around for instructions on how to run Jython. I tried tseliot's suggestions but it just wouldn't work! chmod +x myprogram.extension seemed to work but when I ran ./myprogram.extension, I got the error "unexpected token '('". I then tried the other suggestion: python myprogram.extension, which returned the error "ImportError: No module named javax.swing". Out of desperation, I changed the 'p' into a 'j' and the rest is history!

That's because this is a Python thread, not a Jython thread. And it's 3 years old.

---

