---
title: "C++ GUI builders (preferably on eclipse) ?"
date: 2010-01-24
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by MeMooMeM on 2010-01-24
Hi everyone...

I have mostly developed research-based mathematical software and all I needed was mostly VIM, GNU compilers and Makefiles. But now I am willing to add some simple GUI components, such as a  open file dialog, properties editor, start/stop buttons, nothing fancy.

I would very much appreciate any advice on which IDE/SDK to use :) Here's what I would like to have:

* Completely free, e.g., I will *not* be completely happy with free but restricted version of Qt

* Native multi-platform support, e.g., GTK+ looks almost perfect but it requires X11 on MacOSX (please correct me if I am wrong). 

* Graphic based GUI builder. Does Eclipse support GUI builder extensions? Can I find a plugin for wxWidgeds? I am a beginner and it looked difficult to create the GUI using commands.

Also netbeans caught my eye, which include Qt toolkit I guess. But I don't want Qt.

Thanks a lot!

PS: I am reading that Eclipse in the Ubuntu software repository comes with many problems... Is that the case?

---

### Post by mohaakilla51 on 2010-01-24
wxWidgets will do all of the above, and with wxDev-C++, you also have a graphical editor for your UI.

[wxWidgets]("http://www.wxwidgets.org/")
[wxDev-C++]("http://wxdsgn.sourceforge.net/")

Personally, I'm not a fan of wxWidgets, though a lot of people are. Give it a try.

---

### Post by MeMooMeM on 2010-01-24
> **mohaakilla51 said:**
> wxWidgets will do all of the above, and with wxDev-C++, you also have a graphical editor for your UI.

This looks like a good solution, thanks!

Update: Uh-oh... is it just for windows?? I will be developing on Ubuntu...

> **mohaakilla51 said:**
> 
Personally, I'm not a fan of wxWidgets


Is there a particular reason? Do you prefer explicit coding because defaults in UI editors mess things up? Also, given that I have zero GUI experience, what kind of a learning curve should I expect?

Thanks :)

---

### Post by matthew.ball on 2010-01-24
I was going to recommend wxFormBuilder with vim, but wxDev-C++ seems to look quite nice.

Anjuta also has some wx-support, but I don't believe it has a GUI builder (though you could always use wxFormBuilder to create the form and code in Anjuta if you wanted).

Edit: Mmm, apparently wxDev-C++ is Windows only.

---

### Post by nmccrina on 2010-01-24
What do you have against Qt? It is available under the LGPL or GPL, and actually is the second-easiest GUI framework I've used (the easiest is Java Swing). Also, there is Eclipse integration. Note, I have never tried WxWidgets.

---

### Post by mohaakilla51 on 2010-01-25
Ouch. I completely forgot that wxDev-C++ was windows only. Hadn't used it in forever =/

And yes, I prefer to code UI by hand, because it is very difficult to read anything generated by tools.

Well: If you ever want to program on Windows, use Dev-C++/wxDev-C++ :P

---

### Post by MeMooMeM on 2010-01-25
> **nmccrina said:**
> What do you have against Qt? 

Can I use Qt in commercial code? I will not sell my code, but the way I will use it may be considered commercial. Maybe I should read license descriptions more carefully :)

---

