---
title: "16.04 make file executable"
date: 2017-11-29
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by eightbits2010 on 2017-11-29
Using 16.04 and programming with Python. When I copy a working Python script to a USB Thumb drive and click on the file properties and select make executable, the check mark for 
selecting that choice reverts (instantly) back to an unchecked selection.
I am not sure what I am doing wrong. Does this have anything to do with formating the USB ?
Hoping to get some input.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2017-11-29
What file system is on the USB? If it's fat 32 or some other Microsoft fs, it won't support Linux file permissions.

---

### Post by eightbits2010 on 2017-11-29
I will dig into that. But I did notice that I can't change other permissions as well. This is when I use the GUI file properties I am unable
to change the group settings and the same for the others and the Execute  check box as well. I added an attachment to show the settings 
for the properties -> permissions. I will check for the file type. The attached screen capture shows the status if I click on any of the three mentioned
status's, all in the Access drop down menus as shown.
I will go back and take a look at the format status and then follow uo.

---

### Post by eightbits2010 on 2017-11-29
I got the drive format info and will include it is this post.

---

### Post by spjackson on 2017-12-01
"W95 FAT32 (LBA)" is "fat 32 or some other Microsoft fs" so oldos2er's post applies. You could format the drive as some Linux filesystem type e.g. ext4, but that will erase the contents of the drive and make it unusable in Windows - which may or may not be an issue for you. You can use a GUI tool such as gparted to format the drive.

---

### Post by eightbits2010 on 2017-12-01
I will experiment some more. In the past I have been able to use a format that also allows me to access it in a Windows system.
I did not know that you could not use USB's formated ext4 in a windows system. I have always formated using a FAT type file system. I would not really need  to execute Linux files on windows.

---

### Post by jdarr1 on 2017-12-04
Can't you just copy the file to a local directory and then make the file executable with chmod +x <filename>

---

