---
title: "Glade button image"
date: 2006-06-12
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-06-12
Hello,

I'm developing a GTK 2 program using Anjuta and Glade and I have the following problem:

When I add a button with an image the image I select is visible (and copied to the **pixmaps** directory in my project folder by Glade). However, when I execute the program I get these warnings and I see no button images (and also no program icon)!

```
** (hcimon:9523): WARNING **: Couldn't find pixmap file: bluelogo

** (hcimon:9523): WARNING **: Couldn't find pixmap file: monitor

** (hcimon:9523): WARNING **: Couldn't find pixmap file: trigger
```

I only found one other thread somewhere on the Internet about this, but it had no reply yet. I thought I might try it here. Does somebody have an idea? The images are .xpm images...

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-06-12
When making a new GTK project in Anjuta some GUI-code is autogenerated.  By default all the images are stored in the pixmaps directory. I think the code below should take care of compiling the right image.

```
add_pixmap_directory (PACKAGE_DATA_DIR "/" PACKAGE "/pixmaps");
```

The warnings I get don't alter when I move or remove the above code. I don't think it does anything at the moment.

Could it be a flaw in the Anjuta/Glade integration? I'm curious for the answer.

Meanwhile I'll try to manually change some GUI code in order to get my button images...

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-06-12
Manually changing the location of the images doesn't help!

Edited:

I figured that it might have something to do something with the pathname offset and indeed this is the case.
The directories added by the **add_pixmap_directory** routine are appended to a list (type **glist**)

```
pixmaps_directories = g_list_prepend (pixmaps_directories,
                                        g_strdup (directory));
```

When I changed the **while(elem)** loop in the **find_pixmap_file** function as follows...

```
  while (elem)
    {
      gchar *pathname = g_strdup_printf ("%s%s%s", (gchar*)elem->data,
                                         G_DIR_SEPARATOR_S, filename);
		
*_**	  printf("%s\n", pathname);**_*
		
      if (g_file_test (pathname, G_FILE_TEST_EXISTS))
        return pathname;
      g_free (pathname);
      elem = elem->next;
    }
```

... it appears  that **"/usr/local/share"** is the pathname offset:

```

/usr/local/share/hcimon/pixmaps/monitor.xpm

** (hcimon:27049): WARNING **: Couldn't find pixmap file: monitor.xpm
/usr/local/share/hcimon/pixmaps/monitor.xpm

** (hcimon:27049): WARNING **: Couldn't find pixmap file: monitor.xpm
/usr/local/share/hcimon/pixmaps/trigger.xpm

** (hcimon:27049): WARNING **: Couldn't find pixmap file: trigger.xpm

```

So, narrowing down towards the problem, does someone know how/where to change this offset to my project directory (apart from manually altering the Makefile)?

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-06-14
Well, I still haven't found out how to permanently change the **/usr/local/share** directory to my project directory and changing the makefile(s) doesn't help either (The Auto Configure command overwrites any of my changes and building after manually changing the Makefile(s) doesn't help)

Anyways, I've made a symbolic link from **/usr/local/share** pointing to my project directory and now the images are finally present! Problem solved with a work-around...

---

### Post by Engnome on 2006-06-14
HI there just thought I'd post here, you seem awfully lonely in this thread :sad: 

btw what language?

---

### Post by loell on 2006-06-14
well, he's using anjuta.. so it could be C or C++
but i can pretty tell it's C, but i could be wrong though...

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-06-15
Thanks for your warmth ;) hahaha!

I use C indeed! Everything works fine now using a symlink to point to the right place. Nevertheless I think I should also be able to change this directory in a Makefile template for example...

---

### Post by darkwing_duck on 2009-08-11
Wow, I'm really late on posting in this thread (...a few years late).

I was running into the same problem, trying to execute my app after running "./autogen.sh" and "make", but the pixmap file couldn't be found.  After banging my head for a while, I just decided to run "make install" with "prefix=/home/my_name/my_app_directory".  Then I run the executable out of the "/home/my_name/my_app_directory/bin" directory and everything works fine.

```
./autogen.sh --prefix=/home/my_name/my_app_directory
make
make install
./home/my_name/my_app_directory/bin/my_app
```

Yet another work around.

P.S.
I'm using a very old Glade2 on a CentOS distro at work.  I am limited to using a Red Hat distro and it has to be an old one for reasons beyond the scope of this thread, so I can't use Glade3 for what I'm doing...yet.

Sincerely,
Sorry **** Linux user
\\:D/

---

