---
title: "c address is logical or physical?"
date: 2009-09-01
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by bilol on 2009-09-01
Hi everybody,
 I will be grateful to you if you clear the following doubt:
 The address printed by the code below is **physical** or **logical**? 
```
#include<stdio.h>
#include<stdlib.h>
main()
{
 int *p=(int *)malloc(3);
 printf("%u\n",p);
 return 0;
}
```
[I]N.B. Logical address is address generated by CPU and physical address is the effective address generated from the logical address.
[/I]

---

### Post by Thesuperchang on 2009-09-01
I'm pretty sure that what you're asking is OS dependent. For a 32-bit platform, each program is allocated a minimum of 4GBs of memory. However this memory can be split such that some may reside in virtual memory while other parts may reside in RAM. Memory paging may also play more major roles in this process.

[PHP]
#include<stdio.h>
#include<stdlib.h>
main( void )
{
 int *p;
 p =(int *)malloc( sizeof(int) );
 printf("%p\n",p);
 free(p);
 return 0;
}
[/PHP]

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2009-09-01
Short answer: It is logical. There is no way of finding out the physical address from a program in theory, however, there **might** be a Linux kernel function for that.

---

### Post by bilol on 2009-09-01
Thanks a lot 2 both of u.

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2009-09-01
Look up the concept of virtual memory. From the program's point of view it's got a long contiguous memory space to use, but where any given part of it actually resides is managed by the combination of operating system and memory management hardware of the processor.

---

### Post by Arndt on 2009-09-01
> **bilol said:**
> 

[I]N.B. Logical address is address generated by CPU and physical address is the effective address generated from the logical address.
[/I]

I think this statement is confusing, and doesn't really make the difference clear. Did you take it out of a book?

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2009-09-01
Hm... I don't see the relevance of this. From your program's point of view, all you need is an address, the effective address. And that's it.

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2009-09-01
It's a relevant question in a homework assignment about low-level working details of operating system virtual memory :)

---

### Post by soltanis on 2009-09-01
This is homework? I never pick that up in threads (well sometimes I do, but it's pretty blatant when that happens).

Anyways, that's a "logical" or I would call "virtual" memory address. Only the kernel actually has access to the entire range of physical addresses in memory; normally applications do not have that kind of privilege. The kernel segments memory, or in other words it places each application in its own memory space, and if it strays out of that space, it kills the application (SIGSEGV: segmentation violation). There is also a mapping of virtual-to-physical addresses that goes on inside the kernel; I remember on some older processors, this was also done by the hardware/MMU. I am not sure if that still happens.

In any case, there is very little reason for you to need access to the actual physical memory address. Even if the hardware is performing address translation, it really doesn't matter to you because you will still get the memory you asked for (just not exactly where you asked for it).

Like I said, the kernel has the special exception to (software-level) address translation -- this is why drivers in kernel-space which malfunction usually end up bringing the kernel down with them (because they are not in segmented memory space, and they can screw up whatever memory they want).

---

### Post by MindSz on 2009-09-01
However, there's some systems that grant you access to the physical address of different devices. Needless to say, you need to be extra careful with what you do in there or you might kill the machine.

I work a lot with ARM Single Board Computers and I need to control lights, DIO pins, ADC pins and so on, so I need to access the location in memory where those devices reside. To do this I don't "malloc", I just use mmap() and work with it as a file pointer.

This is a small program to make the lights blink red and green:
```

#include<unistd.h>
#include<sys/types.h>
#include<sys/mman.h>
#include<stdio.h>
#include<fcntl.h>

int main(int argc, char **argv)
{
   volatile unsigned int *PEDR, *PEDDR;
   unsigned char *start;
   int fd = open("/dev/mem", O_RDWR);

   start = mmap(0, getpagesize(), PROT_READ|PROT_WRITE, 
		MAP_SHARED, fd, 0x80840000);
   PEDR = (unsigned int *)(start + 0x20);     // port e data
   PEDDR = (unsigned int *)(start + 0x24);    // port e direction register
   
   *PEDDR = 0xff;                             // all output (just 2 bits)

   while(1){
     *PEDR = 0xff;
     sleep(1);
     *PEDR = 0xfd;
     sleep(1);
     *PEDR = 0xfe;
     sleep(1);
     *PEDR = 0x00;
     sleep(1);
   }

   close(fd);
   return 0;
}
```

---

### Post by bilol on 2009-09-02
Thank you all for continuing this discussion.
I want to add the point below
> Anyways, that's a "logical" or I would call "virtual" memory address
Theoretically, there exist a distinction between logical address and virtual address.Virtual address is the logical address of a system supporting Virtual memory.If your system does not support Virtual memory then the address seen by the programmer is not the virtual address; rather it is a logical address.

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2009-09-02
> **soltanis said:**
>  There is also a mapping of virtual-to-physical addresses that goes on inside the kernel; I remember on some older processors, this was also done by the hardware/MMU. I am not sure if that still happens.


It does -- if all memory access went through a "system call" it would be incredibly slow. What the OS does is that it maintains the page table that the MMU can consult to do a quick translation of memory references on the fly.

---

