---
title: "dBase programming"
date: 2009-04-15
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Miljet on 2009-04-15
Back during the age of dinosaurs and DOS, I did quite a bit of programming with dBase and Foxbase. I kind of lost interest after Borland bought dBase and tried to make it a clone of Paradox.

Is there a similar open source language for Linux? Now that I am retired and have some spare time, I would like to get my feet wet again.

---

### Post by slavik on 2009-04-16
MySQL/PostGRE can be the DB (avail in repo) ... as for the foxbase part ... no idea ...

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2009-04-17
> **Miljet said:**
> Back during the age of dinosaurs and DOS, I did quite a bit of programming with dBase and Foxbase. I kind of lost interest after Borland bought dBase and tried to make it a clone of Paradox.

Is there a similar open source language for Linux? Now that I am retired and have some spare time, I would like to get my feet wet again.

Python is much better language that dBase ever was, and SQLite is much better DB - fully SQL compliant, but still just a library to access a DB in a file.

Aa bonus, Python/SQLite is cross-platform.

---

### Post by slavik on 2009-04-17
Here is some documentation of using sqlite in Perl:
[http://search.cpan.org/~vxx/SQLite-DB-0.04/lib/SQLite/DB.pm](http://search.cpan.org/~vxx/SQLite-DB-0.04/lib/SQLite/DB.pm)

---

### Post by stevescripts on 2009-04-17
And here is the link for the tcl bindings:

[http://www.sqlite.org/tclsqlite.html](http://www.sqlite.org/tclsqlite.html)

As pmasair mentioned, SQLite databases are cross-platform - as is Python, Perl (as mentioned by slavik), Tcl, and others, all allowing to write once, run pretty much anywhere...

---

### Post by Miljet on 2009-04-18
Thank you all very much for the information and links. Looks like I have some research to do now.

---

### Post by DJonsson2008 on 2009-04-18
Web2py is a handy html webframework that could also perhaps
work for local DBs. its built on easy to grok Python, and uses
postgre or sqlite. Web2py has a friendly [learning curve] towards
those with visual fox and visual basic background.
Once you have the basics generated by the framework hacking the
python can be used for customization.
You can easily create your data structures, forms and other
basics via user-friendly html interfaces.

I think open office has a data table type application in it's
suite but it seems more along the lines of access.

There are some XBASE linux apps out there, some more closely on
the Clipper model others closer to the orginal Dbase, some searching
on Linux XBase will bring you to them.

Python though like said above is a much better investment of time,
I think there is even a few tutorials out there geared
towards specifically Foxpro/Xbase users migrating to python.

---

