---
title: "Problem with one liner script (cygwin)"
date: 2009-02-25
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by yannos on 2009-02-25
Hello. I'm using cygwin at work and decided to make a simple shell script to convert cygwin paths to windows path (/cygwin/d/somefolder -> d:\somefolder). This is very usefull because some program, like perforce, refuse to work unless you give it valid windows style paths. Anyway, here's my script

```

#!/bin/sh
echo \"`readlink -f "$1"`\" | sed 's/\/cygdrive\/\([a-z]\)/\1:/g'

```

Here's the problem I'm having:
```

$ winpath file\ with\ spaces
"d:/file with spaces"  #looks good

$ p4 edit `winpath file\ with\ spaces `
Path '/cygdrive/d\"d:/file' is not under client's root 'D:\sandbox1716'.
Path '/cygdrive/d\with' is not under client's root 'D:\sandbox1716'.
Path '/cygdrive/d\spaces"' is not under client's root 'D:\sandbox1716'.

$ notepad "d:/file with spaces"          # works
$ notepad `winpath file\ with\ spaces `  # file not found

```

It seems no matter what I do I can't get this simple thing to work. Any clue?

---

### Post by geirha on 2009-02-25
You need to put quotes around the command substitution as well.
```
p4 edit "`winpath file\ with\ spaces `"
```

---

### Post by yannos on 2009-02-25
Yes, but I don't understand why I need to add yet another set of quotes around the substitution. There's already a set generated by the script.

---

### Post by geirha on 2009-02-25
Ah, looking more closely. Your script adds escaped quotes around the readlink command. Those will be treated as literals and not as quotes. I know quoting and escaping in bash is confusing (been there myself), but I'm not sure how to explain it properly. 

Change your script to:
```
#!/bin/bash
readlink -f "$1" | sed -r 's|/cygdrive/([a-z])|\1:|'

```

Notice the changes I did to your sed btw. You don't need to use slash as the separator; whichever character comes after the s will be used as separator. So if your regex has slashes in it, use a different separator so you don't have to escape the slashes. This at least applies in ubuntu's sed, and probably the one in cygwin too. I also added -r to use extended regular expression, which in this case means you don't need to escape the parenthesis.

Anyway, back to topic, the script will now output the path on a line, with no quote characters.
Then make sure to quote the command substitution and it should work.

```

p4 edit "`winpath file\ with\ spaces`"
# or
p4 edit "$(winpath file\ with\ spaces)"

```

---

### Post by yannos on 2009-02-25
Thanks for those sed tips. It's much more readable that way :)

From what I understand of your post, the substitution will sort of interpret those quotes, removing them in the process. I'm sure there is a good reason for this, but my original idea was to write a script so I won't have to type them every times (because I'm lazy), hence the quotes around the readlink call.

Anyway, I've found a cleaner way of doing this using a bash function that I put in my .bashrc:

```
function p4()
{
  export PWD=`cygpath -wa .`
  /cygdrive/c/Program\ Files/Perforce/p4.exe "$@"
}
```

Bingo. Everything works!

---

### Post by geirha on 2009-02-25
That is indeed a nicer approach :)

---

