---
title: "Suggestions for language to use to solve a programming project"
date: 2010-12-29
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by BallisticBanana on 2010-12-29
Hi there.

My task in summary:
I want to write a small/simple program that will log into a website, look for a specific response (a dialog box pops up generated by the website only if changes have been made to its contents), log out and then send out an email to a specific address if changes (dialog box) have been made. Rinse and repeat every x minutes.  

My request:
I'm new to programming in the Linux environment and want to get some suggestions on the most appropriate language/environment to use.  I'd really like whatever I write to be usable on multiple platforms - Linux, Mac OSX and Windows - although my primary computer runs Ubuntu.  
I started thinking that Java would be best (for portability) but as I want to start on Linux I'm thinking Python.  I'd appreciate any help/suggestions/info on what might be best to use.

All responses gratefully received.

Rob




More info:
I log into a company website to see if I have had any changes to my published work roster.  This is a standard website username/password combination.  Then I follow a couple of links to a different part of the site - if changes have been made to the roster then a dialog box pops up saying so and requiring that I click 'OK' to continue.  Behind the scenes this 'clicking OK' flags the changes as having been notified to me so I don't need to receive a phone call telling me of the changes.  Clicking OK also lets me through to look at the roster changes on the next webpage.  If I click 'Cancel' on the dialog box I cannot continue through to look at the changes made (but this is not important).  So, in essence, the program I want to write is really a set of 'keystrokes' to log into the webpage, and examine the responses received.  If one of those responses is the generation of a dialog box then I know there have been changes, and the program should then fire off an email telling me that changes have been made (I just need to know there have been changes, not what those changes are). Then whether or not any changes have been made, I can just disconnect and wait for another x minutes before trying again.

---

### Post by saulgoode on 2010-12-29
You should investigate the Mozilla [Greasemonkey extension]("http://www.greasespot.net/") (Javascript).

---

### Post by odyniec on 2010-12-30
What you described is basically a web scraping application, and Python is probably a good choice. You might also consider Perl -- I've built a few web scraping apps in it and I know it's well suited for this purpose, so that would be my personal preference. But, since you're saying you're new to programming, you might be better off with Python, as it is believed to have a less steep learning curve than Perl.

A web search for "web scraping python" should point you to some useful resources.

With respect to saulgoode's suggestion, I don't think Greasemonkey would be helpful in any way, as it has a different purpose, i.e. modifying HTML documents on-the-fly.

---

### Post by trent.josephsen on 2010-12-30
"The best language for a given task is the one you know" (unknown source)

I would choose Perl or Python.

---

### Post by juancarlospaco on 2010-12-31
Python

---

### Post by scott_tiger on 2010-12-31
Use PHP as it is syntactically like C or use DRUPAL if u don't like coding.

---

### Post by odyniec on 2010-12-31
> **scott_tiger said:**
> or use DRUPAL if u don't like coding.

Sorry, are you suggesting that the OP use Drupal (which is a Content Management System) to *code* a web scraping application *without coding*?

---

### Post by dv3500ea on 2010-12-31
For a web automation script like this, I would suggest using the *mechanize* modules for Ruby, Perl or Python. This is available from the software repositories for all 3 of these languages - just search 'mechanize' in the Software Centre and show the advanced packages.

All of these are cross platform. Out of the 3, I would say Ruby is the easiest to get started with, Python is the easiest to master and Perl is the most specifically suited to this task.

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2010-12-31
I like python, but for this case a shell script launched by cron can be even easier: wget/grep/nail
(Requires a simple automated e-mailer. 'nail' (in the Ubuntu repositories) is used in this example)

```
#!/usr/bin/sh
$WEBPAGE = $(wget -O - [http://web_page](http://web_page) --user=you --password=pwd)
$CHANGES = grep criteria WEBPAGE
if [ CHANGES !=  "" ]
    nail -s "That web page has updated!" me@examplemail
fi
```

This script assumes you don't mind your login/password being sent in the clear. wget has more advanced options to encrypt them. It also assumes that you have an easy way to identify that pop-up box using grep. Finally, .nailrc must be configured with your mailserver (quite simple).


**MORE DETAIL**
This is a shell script. You can try the elements from any terminal. It's simple and faster than most alternatives.

Here's what the lines mean:

#!/usr/bin/sh     -- This simply tells the system that it's a shell script.

$WEBPAGE = $(wget -O - [http://web_page](http://web_page) --user=you --password=pwd)
wget is a downloader. It downloads anything, including web pages, and you already have it installed. This line tells wget to log into a web page and save the entire page in a variable instead of a file. This only works it wget can access the web page directly - if the server doesn't change the URL between different pages, then this approach won't work.

$CHANGES = grep criteria WEBPAGE
grep is a search tool. It looks through the webpage (still inside that variable) for criteria you define. You'll need to look at your web page source to figure out the criteria. If it finds matches, it saves all those matching lines to another variable. 

if [ CHANGES !=  "" ]
    nail -s "That web page has updated!" me@examplemail
fi[/CODE]
if is pretty straighforward - if the grep result is not blank, send the email.

---

### Post by odyniec on 2011-01-01
> **Cheesehead said:**
> $WEBPAGE = $(wget -O - [http://web_page](http://web_page) --user=you --password=pwd)
wget is a downloader. It downloads anything, including web pages, and you already have it installed. This line tells wget to log into a web page and save the entire page in a variable instead of a file. This only works it wget can access the web page directly - if the server doesn't change the URL between different pages, then this approach won't work.

You should also note that this assumes that the website uses HTTP authentication, which is rarely used on publicly accessible sites. For the standard HTML login form, you'd most likely need to submit your login credentials with the --post-data option, and (if more than one request is needed) also use the --save-cookies/--load-cookies/--keep-session-cookies options to keep track of the login session.

---

### Post by Reiger on 2011-01-01
The shell script option is a good choice here. Especially since you can still use Python/Perl/whatever for the actual processing part by feeding the webpage over STDIN to it for instance. 

However note that #!/usr/bin/sh is an odd choice for a shebang (and the file doesn't even exist on a default Ubuntu installation); typically you would use #!/bin/sh instead.

---

### Post by idi0tf0wl on 2011-01-02
Allow me to cast the first vote for Ruby. If you're going to be learning a new language one way or another, Ruby will be worth your gander.

---

### Post by scott_tiger on 2011-01-03
> **odyniec said:**
> Sorry, are you suggesting that the OP use Drupal (which is a Content Management System) to *code* a web scraping application *without coding*?
 I wanted to tell that Drupal would be easy, mostly drag and drop and can be easily embedded with any scripting language.

---

### Post by odyniec on 2011-01-03
> **scott_tiger said:**
> I wanted to tell that Drupal would be easy, mostly drag and drop and can be easily embedded with any scripting language.

I still don't see how this is in any way relevant to the problem presented by the OP.

---

### Post by juancarlospaco on 2011-01-03
FrameWorks are not Programming Languages...

---

### Post by BallisticBanana on 2011-01-06
My thanks to all who have suggested solutions.

I think I would like to  try setting up a shell script with cron job as that looks like a relatively simple process to start off with.  However, my company site runs a secure server ([https://.](https://.)...) so that might not work if I read those relevant replies correctly. 

Failing that, I'm going to start down the python route - hopefully it doesn't prove too difficult to get along with.


Again, thanks for all your suggestions - I'm sure I'll be back in these forums again soon requesting more help...

---

### Post by juancarlospaco on 2011-01-06
> **BallisticBanana said:**
> 
Failing that, I'm going to start down the python route - hopefully it doesn't prove too difficult to get along with.


:)

Congratulations, try Web2Py...

---

