---
title: ".NET/XNA/DirectX Programming on Ubuntu?"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Zanthir on 2010-10-12
I am wondering if there are tools available to cooperate with someone who is making a game using the XNA and DirectX libraries?
 
I'm assuming, that since Mono has some support for .NET  projects, that this might be possible. Does anyone have any experience in this area? Do you know of any specific steps I might need to take to get a game to compile for both Windows and Ubuntu, using the same solution file on a Windows machine with Visual Studio 2010 and my machine with MonoDevelop?
 
Basically, he is using Visual Studio 2010, and wants my help, but I don't have access to a Windows machine. (Well, convient access from home is more like it.) Another alternative might be running Visual Studio on my box. Does anyone have experience with this? Does it run well on Wine?
 
Thank you all in advance for your quick and helpful responses.

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2010-10-12
I see two options:

1. Setteling for something that works in both worlds, e.g., using OpenGL in conjunction with SDL. I think that it is unlikely that XNA stuff will work on current versions of Mono, not to mention DirectX.

2. You virtualise a copy of Windows to get Visual Studio, XNA and the like running. You won't have luck with it on Wine. See [http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=20359](http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=20359)

---

### Post by directhex on 2010-10-12
There's a lib called monoxna, but I think it's 2D only. Consider also OpenTK or Tao

---

### Post by Zanthir on 2010-10-14
Thanks for the advice. Closing this thread.
 
I'm probably just going to virtualize Windows. That seems like the best option.

---

