---
title: "Thoughts on creating a &quot;secure&quot; login over http. (not https)"
date: 2011-05-08
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by credomane on 2011-05-08
I've designed a "secure" login system for going over http. I'm just curious on what others think of this system. Yes https would be the way to go but I don't have that level of access to the server.

user layout in the DB: **username**,**userhash**,**passwd**
The **username **is actually never used by the system and is only there to make sense of the **userhash **field when I look at the db.
The **userhash** is the sha256 of the **username**
**passwd **is also the sha256 of the password.

Whenever the login page is generated a new random 10 character salt (0-9, a-z, A-Z) is sent to the client. A failed login also generates a new salt.

on the client side when submitting a login it turns the username into a sha256 hash (probably pointless). The password is turned into a sha256, then gets the salt tacked onto the end, and goes through another sha256. Once that is all done it is sent to the server end. Where the server attempts to match everything up. If the server fails to match the received password is sends the login page again with an error.

I just need to add a thirty minute lockout by IP after 5 consecutive failed attempts.

This system looks like it will prevent the snagging of login credentials, right?

[edit]
Oh forgot to mention the weakest link I know of is the cookie containing the php session id. As that is sent over http and is easily sniffed (see firesheep). Not sure if I can do anything about that without sending the cookie https only.
[/edit]

Thoughts, opinions, ideas?

---

### Post by LoneWolfJack on 2011-05-08
so, in simple words, you provide a salt to the user who tries to log in, hash the username client-side with javascript and send this hash to the server?

if you hash the login data that is sent, chances are, you can hide them from any 3rd party.

the problem is that you can't mask the salt. if someone is able to snag the login data, he can also snag your salt. you may make cracking it a bit harder, but in the end, you're just obfuscating the login process.

as you already know, the main problem is the session cookie. no way of eliminating this security issue without SSL.

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2011-05-09
Because the salt is sent as cleartext when the page is first loaded any third party in the middle can get it and use that data to spoof a login (potentially).

What if instead of relying on hashes and salts you used a public key encryption algorithm.  You can send the public key in the clear, encrypt everything on the client in JS, and decrypt it on the server.  The session cookie can be encrypted with the same public/private key pair.

Messages sent from the server back to the client are trickier, but if the client provides an AES key (randomly generated, and encrypted using the public key) you can use AES for all client <--> server communication after the AES key is generated by the client.

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2011-05-09
> **ve4cib said:**
> 
What if instead of relying on hashes and salts you used a public key encryption algorithm.  You can send the public key in the clear, encrypt everything on the client in JS, and decrypt it on the server.  The session cookie can be encrypted with the same public/private key pair.

Messages sent from the server back to the client are trickier, but if the client provides an AES key (randomly generated, and encrypted using the public key) you can use AES for all client <--> server communication after the AES key is generated by the client.

Jumping in just because of curiosity and because I'm a complete ignorant on this kind of stuff :P 

Is public encryption feasible in JS in terms of efficiency, speed and memory consumption? I ask this because, unless you interface to some highly optimized library, implementing the algorithm in JS seems to me to be a quite bad idea. So, can you tell a browser JS client to use a native library to solve this?

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2011-05-09
The really expensive part of RSA is the key generation.  Once you have that done the encryption itself isn't all that hard (comapratively speaking).  And since you'll already have your keys generated you won't need to do that in the browser.

A few years ago I came across thr JS code for AES, RSA, and SHA algorithms.  I can't remember the site, but a google hunt should bring it up in short order.  They all ran reasonably quickly.  Provided the messages are fairly short I doubt there will be too much delay.

---

### Post by credomane on 2011-05-09
So the consensus is I need to beat-up the admin to add SSL. Even generating a self-signed certificate would be something. I got free signed certificates for my servers so he should be able to do the same. It will save me a possible migraine in the future.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2011-05-09
Absolutely; it's definitely better than using a home-brew system, however elaborate.

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2011-05-10
Agreed.  The best answer is to just use SSL if you can.  Anything else is basically just a hacky, work-aroundish, reimplementation of SSL at the Javascript level.

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2011-05-10
> **ve4cib said:**
> The really expensive part of RSA is the key generation.  Once you have that done the encryption itself isn't all that hard (comapratively speaking).  And since you'll already have your keys generated you won't need to do that in the browser.

A few years ago I came across thr JS code for AES, RSA, and SHA algorithms.  I can't remember the site, but a google hunt should bring it up in short order.  They all ran reasonably quickly.  Provided the messages are fairly short I doubt there will be too much delay.

Oh, so it's been done. I'll go hunting when I've got a little more time (exams...). Thank you!

---

