---
title: "R2l"
date: 2010-10-07
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-07
If you ever tried to write your own numerical output formatting routines you may have noticed how inconvenient it is to produce the digits starting with the most significant. We tend to think that the way we write numbers here in the West is left to right, but think about where our number system comes from... don't we call it "Arabic"?

You see in Arabic countries... yes the ones who taught us all about numbers, they write right to left. Yet they write their numbers the same way round as we do: Not because (as the unicode standard says) they write their numbers left to right inside their right to left text, but because... well basically... **we** copied **their** system and *we are actually the ones writing our numbers back to front* :shock:

So why am I posting this?
Well basically I finished my numerical localization templates and now I want to move on and extend my exploration of internationalization to **bidi** text.

As usual I like to explore it without committing to preconceived ideas from "the authorities" before I start asking myself some serious questions and so I would really appreciate if anyone else has some like original insights they want to contribute?

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-07
... a new line "\n" does it return us to the left or to the right margin?

Well I think it depends on the current directionality and that is set with special R2L or L2R character codes and there is no reason (that I can see) to associate direction with each or any character set. I mean say we place alternate "a" and "&#1488;" what the flip is computer supposed to do? Sit there going back and forth overwriting each other? I don't think so :P

So my idea is that it can write all characters in whatever direction it is going at the time and when a change in direction occurs it simply starts inserting characters where it stands, shoving the new ones out in the opposite direction... until a new line or change in direction occurs again. Basically no need to do any different than when we insert a number or any other parameter in our formatted output.

So I propose beyond the %s format to have a %r format that simply writes it's string back to front and I don't care if it uses R2L or l2R characters ;)

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-08
after an initial bit of experimenting I considered two different places for where to implement the directionality and the first one was in the format generation: actually reversing the character sequence of strings fragments that are r2l. However that doesn't really make sense because the solution is not symetrical where as the problem is. We don't want reverse order of characters anywhere and we do want the new line to take us to the appropriate margin on the display... so it's clearly a display issue.

So next step I'm looking at mixed directionality in GtkWidgets and also that of terminal windows. No doubt there are other display implementations like the QT library but well I'm interested in exploring the principles and not in providing a universal  solution. :popcorn:

Anyway so the first thing is to take some trivial example and see what it does with an R2L language and sadly I can't read any of them let alone write in one, so I just use an online translator and immediately I see a raft of problems:
- the beginning of the line is being wrapped onto the next line and at the wrong margin too on the translator web page.
- Having great difficulty in selecting the Arabic text with my mouse...eventually I right click and select all
- After inserting into my ar_SA.po file it's utterly confusing where to put <span> tags that must remain in English I suspect.
- Why on Earth does it not insert characters that I type where the cursor currently is flashing and I'm sure it put that full stop at the wrong end of my Arabic sentence so leaving it out for now. Eventually I decide I best paste the Arabic strings into my English text and avoid even attempting to edit them after that.
Let's just see what Gtk makes of it...
```

msgid "<span weight=\"bold\" size=\"larger\">This program does nothing useful<span>\n"
msgstr "<span weight=\"bold\" size=\"larger\">&#1607;&#1584;&#1575; &#1575;&#1604;&#1576;&#1585;&#1606;&#1575;&#1605;&#1580; &#1604;&#1575; &#1610;&#1601;&#1593;&#1604; &#1588;&#1610;&#1574;&#1575; &#1605;&#1601;&#1610;&#1583;&#1575;<span>\n"

```

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-08
ah well eventually I got another few minutes to try making a bit a progress here...
```

$> msgfmt example-1.ar_SA.po -o example-1.mo
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:47: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:48: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:49: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:50: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:51: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:52: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:54: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:55: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:56: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:57: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:58: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:59: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:60: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:61: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:62: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:63: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:64: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:65: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:66: invalid multibyte sequence
example-1.ar_SA.po:24:67: invalid multibyte sequence
msgfmt: too many errors, aborting

```

z0mg this whole thing just reeks of stuff designed by committees: over complicated, convoluted, counter intuitive and dysfunctional in the extreme :lolflag:

Anyway eventually I coax somekind of .mo file out of it, but sadly it doesn't translate ANY of the stuff in the GUI, only the bit on the command line emerges in Arabic:
```

$> ./a.out
&#1588;&#1603;&#1585;&#1575; &#1604;&#1605;&#1581;&#1575;&#1608;&#1604;&#1577; &#1575;&#1604;&#1582;&#1585;&#1608;&#1580; &#1576;&#1585;&#1606;&#1575;&#1605;&#1580;&#1610;.

```

Atleast it does confirm that I got the right locale selected, but I honestly thought the line should start on the right hand margin and full stop would be to the left of all the Arabic text. Sadly I'm too ignorant to know if the text itself is the right way round :(

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-08
w000t atlast... ok this is really annoying and nothing to do with L2R or R2L... it's about having text strings with < and > in the glade XML format and also back quoting " when translating... At long last I got some Arabic on the gui... now just that stock item OK button that I want to translate too b4 I move on to working with which margin newline returns me to :shock:

p.s. Just in case anyone else wants to play with it I'm adding my source code although it's a hack of an online tutorial elsewhere.

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2010-10-09
First, a linguistic opinion. You know, it's my field and could help you a bit :P

I wouldn't say we're copied the Arabic system backwards, that sounds a bit harsh :P. Ok, yes, we inverted the order because we write rightwards and it would have been a complete incoherence to have words written in the opposite way than numbers. It'd be interesting to check how we used Arabic numbers at first and whether we first used them leftwards and changed after a while or whether we just inverted the order right from the beginning.

Keep in mind that our culture (aribitrarily) considers that to be to the right of x is to be "after" x. So, as we pronounce "one thousand three hundred", it's logical to write 1-3-0-0 = "1300", because we first pronounce from the most significant cipher to the least. This is also valid for Germans: although they have the "a und b*10" order up to 99 (neunundneunzig = 9 und 90), you could say those are fixed numerals, a single "cipher". So, the analysis for 1345 in German would be 1-3-45, and directionality would be preserved, even though internally the word for 45 has the inverse order.

Second, a programming opinion:

Have you taken a look at Pango? It's GTK+'s internationalization library and IIRC, it deals with this stuff.

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-09
> **nvteighen said:**
> First, a linguistic opinion. You know, it's my field and could help you a bit :P

I wouldn't say we're copied the Arabic system backwards, that sounds a bit harsh :P. Ok, yes, we inverted the order because we write rightwards and it would have been a complete incoherence to have words written in the opposite way than numbers. It'd be interesting to check how we used Arabic numbers at first and whether we first used them leftwards and changed after a while or whether we just inverted the order right from the beginning.

Keep in mind that our culture (aribitrarily) considers that to be to the right of x is to be "after" x. So, as we pronounce "one thousand three hundred", it's logical to write 1-3-0-0 = "1300", because we first pronounce from the most significant cipher to the least. This is also valid for Germans: although they have the "a und b*10" order up to 99 (neunundneunzig = 9 und 90), you could say those are fixed numerals, a single "cipher". So, the analysis for 1345 in German would be 1-3-45, and directionality would be preserved, even though internally the word for 45 has the inverse order.

Second, a programming opinion:

Have you taken a look at Pango? It's GTK+'s internationalization library and IIRC, it deals with this stuff.

Well The linguistic side is definitely interesting :)

I learned that Arabs write their numbers exactly the same order as we do but read right to left. In other words for them the least significant digits come first, but IDK if they also pronounce them first.

What I do know is that in ye olden days one used to say things like "Four and twenty black birds backed in a pie..." and when I made my internationalizable number speaking program I discovered that Dutch and Germans still say "Vier en Twintig"... "Fier und Zwanzig"... and they only start reading ms digits first for numbers over 100 as you say... I do suspect we in the west got a bit muddled with the digit order at some stage.

Culturally I presume before adopting Arabic numerals we were using Roman numerals for some time and this may have paved the way for us accepting Arabic R2L numbers in our own L2R language, because we were kind of already happy to start reading at the MS digit thanks to Julius Caesar :shock: Having to do our sums starting at the other end and work backwards is an incovenience we simply got used to and don't think about much after we leave kindergarten.

As for Pango, it's kind of supposed to be wrapped inside the Gtk widgets so I'm looking at it from a "black-box" perspective.  Having just written facilities that translate formatted numeric output I sincerely suspect I'm going to get real problems with a system that associates directionality with character sets:

Currently the digit order is the same for Arabic and for English, but if Arabic characters are rendered R2L implicitly then they will come out back to front and I dread to think what happens if we use glyphs that are of mixed directionality or even just try writing both the Arabic and the English number in the same output string :confused: I hope to get some time to investigate soon.

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-09
Picture below shows numbers with Arabic digits **are** rendered the right way round which implies Gtk widgets write them left to right... so either Widgets are not using the R2L attribute of the characters, or the Arabic digits have been assigned L2R properties :confused:

For Chinese numbers I learned that they can be written either way round and even in vertical orientations. This is possible because they don't just use position but include symbols to indicate the units.

Thinking more about languages I thought about times and dates: We say 10th of October 2010 i.e. and 7 minutes past 10, so like the least significant part is coming first.

Perhaps in the dark ages and in pre-Roman times numbers above 100 were simply not something your average person ever had to deal with and so no real convention had been established. However, alas I concede that probably has less to do with 'programming talk' than would be appropriate to this forum.

Anyway as an experiment I substitute characters that are definitely R2L for the digits: First a little program to generate the Arabic Aphabet from the unicodes and I immediately notice that the terminal window renders them left to right and starting at the left margin... IDK if it even has an R2L capability but if so it sure ain't using it.

In Gtk widgets, however, there IS a change (see picture 2):
Combo box of the digits now does render R2L from the Right hand margin, and the output label has put the Arabic number on the left and moved the English one over to the right, while also reversing all Arabic "digits" into the wrong order. I do wonder why the R2L property is taking precedence over the L2R of the Western characters that are present and it's definitely not what my format generated nor is it what I intended.

This leaves two possible routes to continue:
1. Analyse GtkWidget performance and adapting my output formating to counter the contortions that display is going to apply.
2. Reverse engineer the GtkWidget and substitute my own version.

Before making any rash decisions best figure out how directionality of terminal window is determined. I'll be back.

p.s. images are from "formnum" application in [speaknumber google code project]("http://code.google.com/p/speaknumber/downloads/list").

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-09
A bit of googling soon showed that gnome-terminal doesn't support R2L and neither does xterm so the chances of either of them doing anything half way sensible with bidi (that is a mixture of R2L and L2R output) can be accurately obtained by casting "false" into an integer.

There is a terminal emulator named mltern for which bidi support is claimed. However I suspect it's high time to just have a go at something generic and practical without trying to implement all that "official standard" malarchy :P

Here is the logic I propose to use:

- Display operates in one of two modes: R2L or L2R. Switching between them with the designated LRE (U+202A) and RLE (U+202B) codes in the text.

- Ditch Unicode implicit character dependent directionality: All characters can be written L2R or R2L depending on prevailing output mode.

- A new line in L2R anchors the following output to left margin. New line in R2L anchors it on the right margin and the cursor moves in direction specified while appending new output.

- If directionality changes during line output it simply starts inserting where the cursor stands shoving the new text out away from the chosen margin.

Now that to me seems it might just do everything I need... so next step is to get gnome terminal source code and investigate how amenable that will be to a decent bit of hacking :lolflag:

update: sometimes you can end up chasing your own tail...
```

./configure...
Requested 'vte >= 0.26.0' but version of vte is 0.23.5
Requested 'glib-2.0 >= 2.25.0' but version of GLib is 2.24.1
Requested 'gio-2.0 >= 2.25.12' but version of GIO is 2.24.1
No package 'gconf-2.0' found

```
Eventually when I get back to version 2.29.6 ./configure stop complaining but now linking stage falls over saying "gnome-terminal-2.29.6/src/terminal-window.c:3330: undefined reference to `GTK_WIDGET_REALIZED'... :(

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-10
The reason I'm writing this here in programming forum is because I've seen many threads about building apps from source and so many people might want to know more what to do.

In this case evidently newer versions are being developed, but they rely on libraries that have not yet been released into repositories Alas the last stable release was built using macros that have been deprecated in the current release of Gtk library :shock: Catch-22 or what :confused:

The way to proceed is to go into Makefile.am and remove the line that says $(DISABLE_DEPRECATED) and then it all does build and run just fine, so at long last I can start looking at how to add my own variant of R2L support :)

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-11
... gnome-terminal uses Gtk widget by name of "vte". I suspect it stands for "visual terminal emulator", but in any case it does NOT seem to have a right-to-left capability :shock:

Oddly, source code for said vte widget does not seem to come with the Gtk+ source archive :confused: just wondering if anyone knows where I can get hold of vte widget source?

update: dw... [found vte source here]("http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/cvs/gnome/vte.html")

and the problem is that it is using terminfo data base to emulate ancient video terminals that never had R2L but do have all sorts of wierd features that I doubt anyone would still want today. Looks like I better write my own.

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2010-10-11
> **worksofcraft said:**
> ... gnome-terminal uses Gtk widget by name of "vte". I suspect it stands for "visual terminal emulator", but in any case it does NOT seem to have a right-to-left capability :shock:

Oddly, source code for said vte widget does not seem to come with the Gtk+ source archive :confused: just wondering if anyone knows where I can get hold of vte widget source?

update: dw... [found vte source here]("http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/cvs/gnome/vte.html")

and the problem is that it is using terminfo data base to emulate ancient video terminals that never had R2L but do have all sorts of wierd features that I doubt anyone would still want today. Looks like I better write my own.

Are you sure? gnome-terminal supports Unicode... Sometimes, by mistake, I find myself typing commands in Polythonic Greek... So, they should be able to support the R2L and L2R Unicode characters.

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-11
> **nvteighen said:**
> Are you sure? gnome-terminal supports Unicode... Sometimes, by mistake, I find myself typing commands in Polythonic Greek... So, they should be able to support the R2L and L2R Unicode characters.

TBH no, I'm not totally sure cuz the code is kind of hard to follow and there is an awful lot of it too, so it's quite possible that I missed something. However I wrote program to generate the Arabic alphabet and that is definitely being rendered left to right starting at the left hand margin.
```

// g++ -Wall arabicalphabet.cpp `pkg-config gtkmm-2.4 --cflags --libs`
#include <iostream>
#include <glibmm/ustring.h>

using namespace std;

// const gunichar ALIF = 0x627;
// Unicode doesn't give the Arabic characters in a contiguous block so need
// look up table. I'll just do the stand alone version of each character and
// not the different forms for begin middle and end of word.

gunichar ArabicGlyphs[] {
	0x627, 0x628, 0x62A, 0x62B, 0x62C, 0x62D, 0x62E,
	0x62F, 0x630, 0x631, 0x632, 0x633, 0x634, 0x635,
	0x636, 0x637, 0x638, 0x639, 0x63A, 0x641, 0x642,
	0x643, 0x644, 0x645, 0x646, 0x647, 0x648, 0x649
};

int main() {
	Glib::ustring AlphaBet;
	for (int C = 0; C < 28; ++C) {
		AlphaBet.push_back(ArabicGlyphs[C]);
	}
	cout << AlphaBet.c_str() << endl;
	return 0;
}

```
Note: IDK why it warns about extended initializer's on line 12, but it seems to work anyway.

also there are [lots of posts]("http://ddorda.useopensource.net/archives/1020") about bug 263822 on the web.

I found some basic [code to exercise VTE]("http://www.gtkforums.com/about3422.html") and that shows the same deficiency and I even looked at old VT220 terminal capabilities and the VTE reference manual and can find nothing that lets me swap directionality. It looks like it's all hard coded for L2R at the base level so nothing built on top of that really works correctly.

So my plan is to derive from the basic GtkTextView widget and make sure it's completely symmetrical for L2R vs R2L because then any capability one has the other will have too :)

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-12
A bit more progress:

edit: moved to launchpad project by the name of "biditerm" (bi-directional terminal). 

I include a simple build.sh script and a program that generates the Arabic Alphabet so you can see it render the output from right to left unlike what gnome-terminal does.

So next I want to make it ncurses compatible and add editing keys and perhaps even have different colors for input and output...

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-16
R2L problems stem from the fact that ancient terminals were designed for left-to-right. Thus, the [sequence generated by commands like "clear"]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1588444") also return the cursor to the top left corner. Clear to end of screen erases to the right of the cursor on the current line and they don't even provide the equivalent for right to left organization. Neither is there any capability to do so in the terminfo database.

Currently Unicode defines directionality to be associated with different character sets and so with complicated algorithms R2L characters are fudged into an L2R world and for the time being I'll use the logic as programmed into the GtkTextView widget, but ultimately I want to simply change my terminal emulator to have two modes: R2L or L2R and basically in R2L mode the column on the right hand margin will become number 1 and I'm going to simply mirror the way all the standard terminal escape sequences work. Yes even carriage return will take you to right margin and not left :shock: 

...so if one day you are using a terminal emulator and everything comes out back to front, you will know whose fault it is and then you should look for the L2R/R2L toggle control ;)

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-19
Just to give an idea of the problem, here are 3 pictures of very simple output consisting of some Right to left text **followed** by a number.

[LIST=1]
[*] Single digit value is shown to the right (before in their locale) the Arabic text.

[*] negative and multi digit numbers are show to the left of the Arabic text.

[*] The minus sign is shown to the right of the number... is that really what they want over there? Not to mention converting to their local digit set.
[/LIST]

In this case I'm using the QT library, but similar problems prevail with Gdk and these packages are mature products and IMO it's not really very usable as it stands for hundreds of millions of people all over the world.

For anyone who wants to have a play with the source code, it's in the tar file.

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-10-26
I couldn't make much sense of what happens when you mix different R2L and L2R characters on these highly abstracted packages and so I decided to go right back to the bottom of the font stack and work my way up from there so I can just control where each character gets plotted using my own bidi- algorithm.

However I do want anti-aliased fonts and so I soon work my way up to Xft that uses fontconfig and freetype on top of X11. I did find loads of posts of other people who were struggling with these layers so below is my simplified to mix some different characters:
[php]
// g++ helloXft.cpp -lX11 -lXft `freetype-config --cflags --libs`
#include <stdio.h>
#include <X11/Xlib.h>
// http://www.x.org/archive/current/doc/man/man3/Xft.3.html#toc6
#include <X11/Xft/Xft.h> // X freetype extensions
#include <exception>

struct error_init: std::exception {};

struct x11display {
	Display *pDpy; // an "opaque" structure
	Atom wmDeleteMessage;

	// NULL name will open the one identified by environment variable DISPLAY
	// hostname:number.defaultscreen
	x11display(char *aName = NULL);
	// destructor is never called unless the open in constructor succeeded
	~x11display() {
		XCloseDisplay(pDpy); // disconnect from X server
	}
	void process_events();
};

x11display::x11display(char *aName) {
	pDpy = XOpenDisplay(aName);
	// do NOT complete construction when failed
	// that way teh destructor will not get called
	if (!pDpy) throw error_init();

	// record the window delete message that window manager can send
	wmDeleteMessage = XInternAtom(pDpy, "WM_DELETE_WINDOW", False);
}

void x11display::process_events() {
	XEvent sEvt;
	bool loop = true;
	while (loop) {
		// Send (flush) all requests and wait for an event
		XNextEvent(pDpy, &sEvt );
		printf("user event type=%d\n", sEvt.type);
		switch (sEvt.type) {
		case ClientMessage:
			printf("ClientMessage event\n");
			loop = !(sEvt.xclient.data.l[0] == wmDeleteMessage);
			break;
		default: break;
		}
  	}
}

// simple application with one main window
struct x11simple: x11display {
	Window iMainWindow; // identifier for the main window

	// dimensions are in pixels
	x11simple(unsigned iWidth, unsigned iHeight);
};

x11simple::x11simple(unsigned iWidth, unsigned iHeight): x11display() {
	const int cBorderWidth = 0;	// position is ignored by window manager
	int iScreen = DefaultScreen(pDpy);
// Screen *pScreen = ScreenOfDisplay(pDpy, iScreen)

	const int cBackgroundColor = BlackPixel(pDpy, iScreen);

	// Note: oddly we don't need to identify the screen
	// to find the root window ?!
	iMainWindow = XCreateSimpleWindow(
		pDpy, DefaultRootWindow(pDpy), 0, 0, iWidth, iHeight,
		cBorderWidth, cBackgroundColor, cBackgroundColor
	);
	// show the new window
 	XMapRaised(pDpy, iMainWindow);

	// identify events to look for on this main window
	long iEventMask = StructureNotifyMask|KeyPressMask|KeyReleaseMask;
	XSelectInput(pDpy, iMainWindow, iEventMask);

	// record the delete window message from window manager
	XSetWMProtocols(pDpy, iMainWindow, &wmDeleteMessage, 1);

	XSync(pDpy, false); // process all requests before we can draw on it

	// open a font
	XftFont *pFont = XftFontOpen (pDpy, iScreen,
                        XFT_FAMILY, XftTypeString,
					"all", //"verdana",	//"charter",
                        XFT_SIZE, XftTypeDouble, 12.0,
                        NULL);
	const int iX = 10;
	const int iY = 20;
	const char aText[] = "using Xft: ""&#1575;&#1576;&#1578;&#1579;&#1580;"" € ""&#38646;&#22777;&#36144;&#21441;";
	const FcChar8 *pText = (unsigned char *) &aText[0];

	XftColor sColor;
	Bool iB = XftColorAllocName(
		pDpy, DefaultVisual(pDpy, iScreen), DefaultColormap(pDpy, iScreen),
		"green", &sColor
	);

	XftDraw *pDraw = XftDrawCreate(
		pDpy, iMainWindow,
		DefaultVisual(pDpy, iScreen),
		DefaultColormap(pDpy, iScreen)
	);

	XftDrawStringUtf8(
		pDraw,
		&sColor,
          pFont,
          iX, iY,
		pText, strlen(aText)
	);
};

int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {
	x11simple sAppUI(300, 50);
	sAppUI.process_events();
	return !printf("exits normally\n");
}
[/php]

Now the problem I get is that it either lets me include Arabic OR Chinese but not both at the same time :shock:
See attached pictures. I just can't fathom how it is selecting the font to use :confused:

---

