---
title: "HOWTO: Install xdebug for PHP5"
date: 2007-08-14
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by martin_lindhe on 2007-08-14
Here is a mini-howto in how to install the xdebug extension with PHP5 in Ubuntu 7.04

This will install xdebug 2.0 (or whatever is latest version in PEAR repository when you try this).

It is assumed you have Apache2 + PHP5 working already.

```
sudo apt-get install php5-dev php-pear
```

Now install xdebug thru PECL.

```
sudo pecl install xdebug
```

Now we need to find where xdebug.so went (the compiled module)

```
martin@martin-dev:/$ find / -name 'xdebug.so' 2> /dev/null
/usr/lib/php5/20060613/xdebug.so

```

Then edit php.ini:

```
sudo gedit /etc/php/apache2/php.ini
```

Add the following line:

```
zend_extension="/usr/lib/php5/20060613/xdebug.so"
```

Then restart apache for changes to take effect

```
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
```

Check phpinfo() to make sure the extension is loaded correctly. The following line should have been appended to the copyright lines:

**with Xdebug v2.0.0, Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, by Derick Rethans**

For more information about xdebug configuration and usage, please read the official documentation, found here: [http://xdebug.org/docs/](http://xdebug.org/docs/)

---

### Post by pdowling on 2007-10-21
Thank you, thank you.  That worked.

Was trying to follow the instructions on the XDebug website, but couldn't get it to work!

---

### Post by jrebelo on 2007-11-28
Hey dude, thanks for the guide, it saved me some time.

For anyone else following this guide, I have one slight change I would recommend. Rather than including the xdebug.so extension in your php.ini file, it is probably more appropriate to create an ini file specifically for this extension in /etc/php5/conf.d/xdebug.ini. The file can be as simple as:

; xdebug debugger
zend_extension="/usr/lib/php5/20060613/xdebug.so"

And then to compliment this setup, add any xdebug configuration directives to this file as well.

This has two benifits:

1. It will be automatically included by both cli php5 and apache2 php5
2. It will persist regardless of what happens with your php setup. If your main php.ini file gets changed or modified by some automated process, you don't risk losing your xdebug setup stuff.

Laters

---

### Post by SeanHodges on 2008-04-03
Quick and painless, thanks for the HOWTO!

---

### Post by Abu Sabah on 2008-08-21
Thanks much appreciated.

---

### Post by webik on 2008-09-23
Hi everyone,

It's package that provide xdebug.

Just type in console:
```

sudo aptitude install php5-xdebug

```

--

webik

---

### Post by antixpaul on 2009-02-10
I'm with webik but I had to change a config file to get it to work properly on my debian box, pretty sure this will work the same on ubuntu though~

```

devtix:/# sudo apt-get install php5-xdebug

```

Find path to xdebug:

```

devtix:/# find / -name 'xdebug.so'
/usr/lib/php5/20060613+lfs/xdebug.so

```

and load it as a zend extension in the /etc/php5/cli/conf.d/xdebug.ini generated by apt:

```

zend_extension="/usr/lib/php5/20060613+lfs/xdebug.so"

```

Reload apache

```
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
```

Test xdebug is loaded correctly with php -v

```
devtix:/# php -v
PHP 5.2.8-0.dotdeb.1 with Suhosin-Patch 0.9.6.3 (cli) (built: Dec 11 2008 23:02:27)
Copyright (c) 1997-2008 The PHP Group
Zend Engine v2.2.0, Copyright (c) 1998-2008 Zend Technologies
    with Xdebug v2.0.3, Copyright (c) 2002-2007, by Derick Rethans

```

---

### Post by fenzik on 2009-04-11
nice info.. appreciated..!

---

### Post by SeanHodges on 2009-04-14
> **webik said:**
> Hi everyone,

It's package that provide xdebug.

Just type in console:
```

sudo aptitude install php5-xdebug

```

--

webik

php5-xdebug was only added to the repositories in late April 2008, after this thread was started.

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=php5-xdebug&searchon=names&suite=all&section=all](http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=php5-xdebug&searchon=names&suite=all&section=all)

If you are using Ubuntu 8.04 or above, use the php5-xdebug package; otherwise follow the instructions in this post.

---

### Post by moonspa on 2009-07-24
Just one hint guys. 

It is not wired directly with installation of xdebug, but I faced it during installation process. Xdebug is creating in your browser cookie with session name. What happened to me ... This cookie was somehow broken (I can't reproduce what exactly went wrong) what caused that the script was started in debug mode each time even if it was not requested (doesn't matter if there was or wasn't XDEBUG_SESSION_START pushed to server with GET). In first moment I thought that the script freezes but it was just extremely slow. Execution of php scripts was that slow because first X seconds server tried to connect remote debug client on port XXXX where in fact nothing was listening as nobody requested debug mode. Solution however was very simple (unfortunately I spent some hours to figure it out), I just removed that cookie out of my browser. Since this action everything works fine and debug mode is initiated ONLY if I really want. 

Hope this save someone time ;).

Regards,
mOOnSPa

---

### Post by Mardala on 2009-07-28
As pointed out by a co-worker of mine, there is a Firefox extension that is helpful: [https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/3960](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/3960)

---

### Post by dado_eyad on 2010-05-13
hey
i installed php5-xdebug on ubuntu 9.10 and it worked right away 
but i'm on 10.4 installed it and it didn't work and i followed the instructions here and it didn't work.
any ideas ??

---

### Post by n7zfi on 2010-05-31
The xdebug installation should be the same on a 10.4 installation. Install the php5-xdebug package and then restart the Apache2 service

sudo apt-get install php5-xdebug
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart

You can verify the installation with phpinfo() or on the command line (ig the php5-cli package is installed.

---

### Post by mhcoder on 2010-07-15
I had also a problem with xdebug in Lucid. I installed it a few times and it just didn't work. I could see the xdebug configurations in phpinfo() but nothing. It needed the "html_errors" set to "On" from php.ini

This is the easy way: 
[INDENT] sudo apt-get install php5-xdebug
[/INDENT]Change the php.ini:
[INDENT] sudo gedit /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini
display_errors = On
html_errors = On
[/INDENT]And restart apache:
[INDENT] sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart[/INDENT]

---

### Post by tylervortex on 2010-08-11
> **webik said:**
> Hi everyone,

It's package that provide xdebug.

Just type in console:
```

sudo aptitude install php5-xdebug

```--

webik

Tank you! :)

---

### Post by gouthamvel on 2010-12-15
Instead of manually finding and adding zend_extension path use this 

```
sudo apt-get install php5-xdebug
```

this will automaticlly config xdebug with php ... 
**but this should be done after installing xdebug**

---

### Post by Daywalker55 on 2010-12-28
> **gouthamvel said:**
> Instead of manually finding and adding zend_extension path use this 

```
sudo apt-get install php5-xdebug
```this will automaticlly config xdebug with php ... 
**but this should be done after installing xdebug**


When im typing php -v in Shell i will get something like
".....PHP 5.3.2 ... Zend Engine v2.3.0...with XDebug 2.0.5" 
so it seems to be allright.

But i do not find a single Logfile from Xdebug anywhere and in phpinfo() i find no entry for xdebug.
What can i do?

---

### Post by matteosister on 2011-01-07
> **mhcoder said:**
> I had also a problem with xdebug in Lucid. I installed it a few times and it just didn't work. I could see the xdebug configurations in phpinfo() but nothing. It needed the "html_errors" set to "On" from php.ini

This is the easy way: 
[INDENT] sudo apt-get install php5-xdebug
[/INDENT]Change the php.ini:
[INDENT] sudo gedit /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini
display_errors = On
html_errors = On
[/INDENT]And restart apache:
[INDENT] sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart[/INDENT]


This is what I was looking for!
My ubuntu 10.10, with php 5.3 said that xdebug was installed....but var_dump() was the default one (really really bad and verbose).

I placed:
display_errors = On
html_errors = On
right after the xdebug extension load in /etc/php5/conf.d/xdebug.ini
and everything is ok now.

Many many many thanks to mhcoder! =D>

---

### Post by Arturito.Net on 2011-05-25
I made a short tutorial on how to debug php using combination of Ubuntu, netbeans,xdebug and Google Chrome. Takes around couple of minutes to set up. 

[http://arturito.net/2011/05/21/local-and-remote-php-debuging-in-netbeans-with-xdebug-on-google-chrome-just-like-in-visual-studio/]("http://arturito.net/2011/05/21/local-and-remote-php-debuging-in-netbeans-with-xdebug-on-google-chrome-just-like-in-visual-studio/")

---

### Post by Intacart on 2011-08-04
I was really having problems getting remote debugging to work on Ubuntu running in Virtualbox with Netbeans in Local Windows - finally figured it out so thought I'd put the solution here it case it helps someone else.

My problem was finding out what the ***xdebug.remote_host*** value needed to be set to. I had tried all sorts of variations:

127.0.0.1
localhost
The ip that was reported by ipconfig on the local machine

In the end I  worked out that I needed to see what the currently connected ports were were successfully communicating on - things like the SSH connection I was using to communicate with the server.

I did a: 

```
netstat -a | grep tcp
```this reported that:

```
Wayne-PC:ssh            192.168.1.65:53569      ESTABLISHED
```I changed 

```
xdebug.remote_host=Wayne-PC
```Joy of Joy's it worked - so hopefully this will give you the steps to work out what your value needs to be. :P

---

### Post by cbj4074 on 2012-03-14
> **jrebelo said:**
> 
[...]

For anyone else following this guide, I have one slight change I would recommend. Rather than including the xdebug.so extension in your php.ini file, it is probably more appropriate to create an ini file specifically for this extension in /etc/php5/conf.d/xdebug.ini.

[...]

This has two benifits:

1. It will be automatically included by both cli php5 and apache2 php5
2. It will persist regardless of what happens with your php setup. If your main php.ini file gets changed or modified by some automated process, you don't risk losing your xdebug setup stuff.

Laters

I just want to reiterate the importance of this user's statement. xdebug should be configured within its own .ini file.

---

