---
title: "How do language bindings work?"
date: 2008-06-13
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by nvteighen on 2008-06-13
Hi again,

I'd like to understand how the same shared library can be linked from applications coded in different programming languages...

For example, take GTK+. I understand how this works in any compiled language: the GNU linker (ld) will take care for it. In a C/C++, the API is "passed" by a header file so the compiler knows about those functions.

But what about interpreted high-level languages (read Ruby, Python, Perl & friends)? How does something like PyGTK actually work??... A Python script won't pass through the linker and the GTK library is a binary which was produced in C... Or is this done at interpreter-level?

Just curious, anyway ;) Thanks!

---

### Post by Phenax on 2008-06-13
A lot of projects use [SWIG]("http://www.swig.org/"). Although most high-level languages have their own way to make modules in C and often other languages.

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2008-06-13
Thanks to GObject, the object systems of specific languages can be wrapped around GObject using libraries such as GTK+. The main reason for GTK+ being written in C with its own object system was to facilitate language bindings. C libraries are a lot easier to create wrappers for than C++ for instance.

I'm not sure how it all works, but you can create bindings for any GObject based library for pretty much any language. The [GObjectIntrospection]("http://live.gnome.org/GObjectIntrospection") work ongoing would make the need to write the actual bindings obselete, it would be done automatically (AFAIK).

---

### Post by Wybiral on 2008-06-13
Generating a wrapper using SWIG or PyRex (for Python) is one way, but another way is to use dynamically loadable libraries. Python has a good module for this called [ctypes]("http://docs.python.org/lib/module-ctypes.html").

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2008-06-13
> **Wybiral said:**
> Generating a wrapper using SWIG or PyRex (for Python) is one way, but another way is to use dynamically loadable libraries. Python has a good module for this called [ctypes]("http://docs.python.org/lib/module-ctypes.html").

This isn't how GObject ones are done. Not sure how they do do it mind you.

The future will bring GObjectIntrospection of course.

---

### Post by Wybiral on 2008-06-13
> **bruce89 said:**
> This isn't how GObject ones are done. Not sure how they do do it mind you.

The future will bring GObjectIntrospection of course.

The OP asked how library bindings were done, in general, with GTK being an example. Python needs some way to interface with C libraries, and that can be through a wrapper generated with SWIG/PyRex and the like (building a Python-compatible dynamic library), or through Pythons foreign function module, ctypes.

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2008-06-13
I think I'm understanding. Let's see...

The interface, as I've read, is generated by some "foreign" tool. I mean, SWIG is written in C and so should PyGTK too, I guess, because the resulting wrapper should be able to manage all C types before handing functions to the target language. (e.g. there are no pointers in Python, so the wrapper should tranform them to something Python can read).

The ctypes module would be another wrapper but that "installs" (a more technical term, please?) into the script itself instead of being loaded at execution time by the interpreter.

In a rush of curiosity, I looked up header and definitions files for pygame. I see there are a bunch of C .h files, another bunch of .py files and another bunch of .so shared libs, which I suppose are who actually work with the SDL library and would be the wrapper. 

I mean:
```

Python project <--.py def files <--[PyGame: .h --> .c --> (through ld) --> .so] --> (ld again) --> SDL libs

```
Am I right?

Thank you folks for your help!

---

### Post by slavik on 2008-06-13
when you build a module to bind into C, the resulting module is C code that can be accessed by the main interpreter using the interpreter specified protocols.

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2008-06-13
> **slavik said:**
> when you build a module to bind into C, the resulting module is C code that can be accessed by the main interpreter using the interpreter specified protocols.

Oh, right, of course the interpreter must support the binding... or all efforts will be in vain. (I mean, you can't bind Ruby to BASIC or Javascript, do you?)

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2008-06-13
> **nvteighen said:**
>  you can't bind Ruby to BASIC or Javascript, do you?)

yes you can. it is "matter of simple programming" :-) but somebody needs to sit down and do the hard boring part.

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2008-06-14
> **pmasiar said:**
> yes you can. it is "matter of simple programming" :-) but somebody needs to sit down and do the hard boring part.

Excuse me, I don't understand your post... Are you talking on the abstract possibility of biding Ruby to Javascript, but has to be implemented, or that there is already a module designed for that people can use?

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2008-06-14
> **nvteighen said:**
> Excuse me, I don't understand your post... Are you talking on the abstract possibility of biding Ruby to Javascript, but has to be implemented, or that there is already a module designed for that people can use?

You asked if it is possible - and I do not see any fundamental laws of physics preventing it. Most likely it was not done, because nobody really needed it... I certainly do not care about existence of such a module, but any dedicated individual can do it.

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2008-06-14
> **pmasiar said:**
> You asked if it is possible - and I do not see any fundamental laws of physics preventing it. Most likely it was not done, because nobody really needed it... I certainly do not care about existence of such a module, but any dedicated individual can do it.
OK. I got the point... actually, it would prove to be useful only if someone really writes that module and uses it for something he/she needs.

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2008-06-14
This hypothetical "Ruby to Javascript binding" would just essentially mean writing a Javascript interpreter in Ruby. Nothing would stop you from doing that... now, why you'd want to is another question. :)

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-06-14
> **CptPicard said:**
> This hypothetical "Ruby to Javascript binding" would just essentially mean writing a Javascript interpreter in Ruby. Nothing would stop you from doing that... now, why you'd want to is another question. :)

Why would someone port Brainfuck to Lisp? Because we can.

[http://flukkost.nu/blog/2007/02/22/****-lisp/](http://flukkost.nu/blog/2007/02/22/****-lisp/)

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2008-06-14
> **LaRoza said:**
> Why would someone port Brainfuck to Lisp? Because we can.

Well that's obvious, there apparently wasn't enough brain-**** in Lisp already... :)

---

### Post by DavidBell on 2008-06-14
Actually 'binding' an interpretted language is just a matter of starting an instance of it's normal interpretter and sending it text code to execute. I've done it a couple of times in windows to add vbscript/javascript to run user functions in a compiled application. It basically comes down to psuedocode
```

WhateverInterpretter myEngine;
String myCode = "Function Test(Args) as Variant\r\n Blah Blah Blah\r\nEnd";
myEngine.SetCode(myCode);

Array myArgs[] = {....};
Variant RetVal = myEngine.Execute("Test", myArgs);

```

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2008-06-14
> **CptPicard said:**
> Well that's obvious, there apparently wasn't enough brain-**** in Lisp already... :)

No, it's different: programming in lisp is fun, and BF is simple enough. Both Ruby and JS are enough complicated that it would be less fun, and lot like boring work. While they are similar enough that it would result in no gain at all.

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2008-06-15
> **DavidBell said:**
> Actually 'binding' an interpretted language is just a matter of starting an instance of it's normal interpretter and sending it text code to execute. I've done it a couple of times in windows to add vbscript/javascript to run user functions in a compiled application. It basically comes down to psuedocode
```

WhateverInterpretter myEngine;
String myCode = "Function Test(Args) as Variant\r\n Blah Blah Blah\r\nEnd";
myEngine.SetCode(myCode);

Array myArgs[] = {....};
Variant RetVal = myEngine.Execute("Test", myArgs);

```
But I guess you can't bind to a compiled language that way.

---

### Post by Wybiral on 2008-06-15
> **nvteighen said:**
> But I guess you can't bind to a compiled language that way.

Theoretically, you could... You can compile the code at runtime to a dynamic library and then load and call the code for it. :)

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2008-06-15
> **Wybiral said:**
> Theoretically, you could... You can compile the code at runtime to a dynamic library and then load and call the code for it. :)

Which explains me why people don't do this sort of things every day... You'll still have to make your program read the compiled binary somehow!

---

### Post by Wybiral on 2008-06-15
> **nvteighen said:**
> Which explains me why people don't do this sort of things every day... You'll still have to make your program read the compiled binary somehow!

Oh, that part's easy if it's compiled as a shared object file: [http://kerneltrap.org/man/linux/man0p/dlfcn.h.0p](http://kerneltrap.org/man/linux/man0p/dlfcn.h.0p)

This is exactly what the ctypes library for Python does, it loads the dynamic library and provides the means of conversion between Python objects and C types.

---

### Post by kknd on 2008-06-15
> **nvteighen said:**
> 

But what about interpreted high-level languages (read Ruby, Python, Perl & friends)? How does something like PyGTK actually work??... A Python script won't pass through the linker and the GTK library is a binary which was produced in C... Or is this done at interpreter-level?


There are two ways of accessing a C library from a higher level language.
You can use a runtime foreign function call library or by writing a "wrapper / glue" library to link the original library to the programming language (using the language foreign function interface).

Languages like Lua and Python make this task easy (I wrote a GTK+ and some other library bindings to Lua).

There's also projects like SWIG that generate the glue code for you.

---

