---
title: ".exe decompiler?"
date: 2011-04-13
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by BlackRat90 on 2011-04-13
Does anyone know of any good decompilers? I'm looking for something that could disassemble a .exe file so I can poke around in the source.

I want it so my friend and I can try to write a patch for the old game "Lords of the Realm 2". Were trying to patch it so the multiplayer works in ubuntu

---

### Post by slavik on 2011-04-13
you are way off base. please research into this before you ask to educate yourself on the matter.

---

### Post by youbuntu on 2011-04-13
> **BlackRat90 said:**
> Does anyone know of any good decompilers? I'm looking for something that could disassemble a .exe file so I can poke around in the source.

I want it so my friend and I can try to write a patch for the old game "Lords of the Realm 2". Were trying to patch it so the multiplayer works in ubuntu

"poke around in the source" is impossible, and a contradiction. Had you the source, you'd not need to de-compile the executable, kapish?

---

### Post by cgroza on 2011-04-13
You can disassemble it and you will get compiled object code, good luck to get further.

---

### Post by unknownPoster on 2011-04-13
Sounds like you're wanting to reverse engineer this.

Good Luck with that. It's taken ReactOS many developers and many years to get a system that still barely usable for it's intended purpose.

---

### Post by oopsie on 2011-04-14
I did some quick googling and came up with this page. [http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/X86_Disassembly/Disassemblers_and_Decompilers](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/X86_Disassembly/Disassemblers_and_Decompilers)

Though I'd be careful. I've never used any of the software linked on that page. And some of the info on that page looks like bullpoop.

---

### Post by Wistful on 2011-04-14
Is the ".exe" you're referring to a "native executable" or a .NET executable ?

EDIT: Just read that is for an old game, so its probably native executable.

---

### Post by |{urse on 2011-04-14
Here's a wacky notion, email the author of the software and ask if they'd be interested in letting (potentially paying, based upon your skillset and experience)you develop a linux compatible version.

---

### Post by stchman on 2011-04-14
I am no expert in this matter, but if he had the Debug version of the executable it might be possible.

Since software developers don't release Debug .exe files then the OP might be OOL.

Lords of the Realm II was developed by Impression Games and distributed by Sierra.  You could try to ask them if they will release the source code (I'm sure its quite extensive) to you.  They might since the game is 15 years old.

---

### Post by zirkoni on 2011-04-14
> **BlackRat90 said:**
> Were trying to patch it so the multiplayer works in ubuntu
Doesn't it work in DOSBox?

---

### Post by Ferrat on 2011-04-14
To be honest it's probably easier just to make a clone that can re-use the games resources and that way you can make all the improvements you want.

---

### Post by BlackRat90 on 2011-04-19
Wow! Thanks for all the input guys! Sorry I am a bit late to the party its been an interesting week with my family.

Anyhow...

> **zirkoni said:**
> Doesn't it work in DOSBox?
Havn't tried in DOSBox but it is a Win95 application however i might be able to dig up a dos version...

> **stchman said:**
> 
Lords of the Realm II was developed by Impression Games and distributed by Sierra.  You could try to ask them if they will release the source code (I'm sure its quite extensive) to you.  They might since the game is 15 years old.

I will have to definitely try this. I'm not that experienced in C (which is i bet what the game is written in), but its always worth a try. Me and my friends know enough about C collectively to perhaps get a grasp how it works.

This brings me here:
> **Ferrat said:**
> To be honest it's probably easier just to make a clone that can re-use the games resources and that way you can make all the improvements you want.

Not a bad idea, I did actually write up a VERY simple text based clone in python awhile back. I didn't get very far. However, I could try to merge the two and continue working on it and just see what happens. 

Going off topic: Does anyone know the legality with building clone games using the originals resources?

---

### Post by |{urse on 2011-04-21
That depends on how said resources were liscensed. You should probably just ask the owners of the property.

---

