---
title: "A small problem regarding compiling sources"
date: 2007-04-22
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by rks_i1_13 on 2007-04-22
I have posted this problem in **64-bit user** section, but a reply told me to post it here (sorry for repeated post :oops: ).


I have Pentium Core 2 Duo processor running Ubuntu-7.04 (Fiesty) along with win32(XP). When I compile certain sources, **make** complains that a file included :-**<gnu/stubs-32.h>** doesn't exist. Indeed it **does not** exist, actually it is **<gnu/stubs-64.h> that actually exists** in **/usr/include/gnu**.

On checking the actual source of error i found the following in **stubs.h** :-
Code:

```

#include <bits/wordsize.h>

#if __WORDSIZE == 32
# include <gnu/stubs-32.h>
#elif __WORDSIZE == 64
# include <gnu/stubs-64.h>
#else
# error "unexpected value for __WORDSIZE macro"
#endif

```


On checking **<bits/wordsize.h>**, I found the following :-
Code:

```

#if defined __x86_64__
# define __WORDSIZE	64
# define __WORDSIZE_COMPAT32	1
#else
# define __WORDSIZE	32
#endif

```

My problem is:- should I **manually define __x86_64__**, or do anything else ?

Thanks in advance. :)

---

### Post by rks_i1_13 on 2007-04-22
Also, i would like to ask that when i use **MSYS** or **Cygwin** on Win32, they define environment variables like **PROCESSOR="x86 ..."**, but i don't find such variables in Ubuntu. Is it some kind of critical situation ? :-k

---

### Post by rjack on 2007-04-22
> **rks_i1_13 said:**
> My problem is:- should I **manually define __x86_64__**, or do anything else ?

Just a guess: have you run ./configure before running make?

---

### Post by Compyx on 2007-04-22
According to this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2436120]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2436120"), setting CFLAGS="-m64" might solve your problem.

So try doing:
```
CFLAGS="-m64" ./configure
```
or whatever the command is to compile the source.

I can't test this, as I don't have a 64-bit system yet :(

---

### Post by rks_i1_13 on 2007-04-22
> **rjack said:**
> Just a guess: have you run ./configure before running make?

Yes, **make** has read the **Makefile** that was generated by **./configure**. I don't think the **./configure** has made any mistakes. It just tried to read one of the include files that comes with **build-essential_11.1_amd64.deb**, which lies in /usr/include.

---

### Post by edschofield on 2007-05-01
Try installing the package **libc6-dev-i386**:

> Description: GNU C Library: 32bit development libraries for AMD64
 Contains the symlinks and object files needed to compile and link programs
 which use the standard C library. This is the 32bit version of the
 library, meant for AMD64 systems.

---

