---
title: "a question about generating executable file fron an excutable file"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by zarzor_2010 on 2010-05-11
I have a question about c++ code
 
I want to code an executable file that would generate another executable file
 
For example, file1 should ask the user to enter the text. then it would make file2 that when you run file2 it will output the text you have entered for file 1
 
file1:
main(){
cin >> "enter a text";
}
 
Then if you entered "Hello" file1 will generate an executable file2
and when you run file 2
./file2
 
it would print "Hello"
 
Any ideas about making this code?
 
 
Thanks alot

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2010-05-11
Open a file stream to your new source file, output the string of code that you want in this source file, and then compile it.

Things that will assist you include the STL fstream, string, and iostream.  Other library functions you should consider using include system(), and possibly mktemp().  These last two are described in section 3 of the man-pages.

Good luck with your homework assignment!

---

### Post by zarzor_2010 on 2010-05-12
Thank you so much for your reaply
It really helped me... is there any way of doing so without compiling the new file
 
For example: if this code is going to be run on a pc without gcc, it will not work
 
Thanks

---

### Post by Seal Daemon on 2010-05-12
> **zarzor_2010 said:**
> 
It really helped me... is there any way of doing so without compiling the new file
 

No.

---

### Post by trent.josephsen on 2010-05-12
Of course there is.  Open the file in binary mode and output the literal binary opcodes to do what you want.  The challenge is figuring out what the binary is that you want.  For something as simple as printing strings, you might be able to work out what's necessary by examining the file generated by GCC for "hello, world".  On the other hand, maybe not.  If you want to do more complicated stuff, you'll need to know more about the executable format used by your particular platform (OS and processor).

The compiler is a shortcut to writing directly in binary.  If you want to avoid using the compiler, you have to write in binary (or assembly if using an assembler is acceptable).

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2010-05-12
> **zarzor_2010 said:**
>  
For example: if this code is going to be run on a pc without gcc, it will not work

That's correct; and neither will the original executable (see footnote below).  :-)

Trust me when I say this, there is no practical need for your application in the "real" world.  If you are developing this thing for your own gratification or for school work, you should look at the project as merely a curiosity, but not something that has any practical value.

Footnote:  You do not need GCC to run an application, but you will need the supporting libraries that were used to build the application.  Without these, the application will not run.  Thus if I use GCC to build an application on my Linux box, it will not run directly under Windoze, even if the h/w architecture is the same.

---

