---
title: "automake/make woes"
date: 2005-11-11
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by johneboy on 2005-11-11
Hi Folks,

I'm having trouble getting a project I was working on under Hoary (C++ and GTKMM) to build at all under Breezy.  I did a complete reinstall to Breezy and I believe I have installed the correct bits to actually restart development.

I have installed the following:

[LIST]
[*]build-essential
[*]automake v1.4
[*]autoconf v2.59
[*]Required GTKMM development libraries
[*]Anjuta 1.2.4
[/LIST]

When I open the existing Anjuta project it refuses to build.  It just moans with the make error "make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found.  Stop.
". I have auto generated the scripts, both in Anjuta and from the command line successfully.

From the command line the process is as follows:

```
./autogen.sh
```

succeeds and says use make.

makes says:
```
make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found.  Stop.

```
automake --verbose says:
```
automake: reading configure.in
automake: reading aclocal.m4
automake: reading Makefile.am
automake: creating Makefile.in
automake: reading macros/Makefile.am
automake: creating macros/Makefile.in
automake: reading src/Makefile.am
automake: creating src/Makefile.in

```
Nothing actually builds, as in even starts to compile let alone give compilation errors.  This all used to work under Hoary and I'm not sure what I've done that is stupid.

Any ideas anyone?

Many thanks

John

---

### Post by David Marrs on 2005-11-11
Have you changed your targets and not realised it? eg. ../path/to/file.c should now be, ../../path/to/file.c - something like that?

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2005-11-11
first check any readme files to see if you need anything else
./configure    look to see if any library is missing as any missing dependence=no make file

make
make install

---

### Post by johneboy on 2005-11-13
Hi teaker1s,

thanks, there was an error sitting in the configure output that I'd missed.  Funny thing is it wasn't a missing dependency it just looks like the configure.in generated by Anjuta (actually more likely differences between versions of automake or autoconf) is slightly different in the version between Hoary and Breezy.  Problem now solved.

Thanks once again for the pointer.

Regards

John

---

