---
title: "Marathon program"
date: 2007-08-04
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by kane77 on 2007-08-04
Hi..
this is kind of strange but I ask it anyway.. I help to organize local marathon.. the only program I have for evidence of runners and the result sheets is windows only and lately hasn't been working well..

Is there any program I could use for that purpose? all I need to store is: starting number, name, surname, year of birth, club, and category.. (plus result)..

I'd have done something like that myself but I didn't have time :)

---

### Post by Note360 on 2007-08-04
wouldnt an sql database work better? Better yet make it internet based so this way it doesnt matter if it is windows or linux. I wouldnt mind making a database schema up for you but thats the easy part.

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2007-08-04
There might be some open source compatition management programs... but it is not obvious how to search for them. Dig through sourceforge and freshmeat.

You should be able to make it all directly from autogenerated database maintenance code in Python/Django (but you need to design your database). Depends what you want to learn: your own code, or code of someone else?

---

### Post by Note360 on 2007-08-04
Oh yeah, django is nice to. You can jsut make the database in python then enable teh admin system the rest of the code should be made for you abit more editing and you can customize it. In reality your goign to have to do some coding mainly in SQL. Why dont you just use a er Spreadsheet?

---

### Post by fatsheep on 2007-08-04
> **Note360 said:**
> ... **Why dont you just use a er Spreadsheet?**

Haha, I didn't even think about that.  Sounds like a spreadsheet would solve this problem.

---

### Post by Note360 on 2007-08-04
Fast and simple. I myself would prefer an application though. However, for you since you dont want to do the work a spreadsheet is already made and it should be fast an easy and can be cross platform.

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2007-08-05
Google documents [http://docs.google.com/](http://docs.google.com/) have online spreadsheets: you can share access by person. Cross-platform too: all you need is javascript capable browser.

---

### Post by Mathiasdm on 2007-08-05
> **pmasiar said:**
> Google documents [http://docs.google.com/](http://docs.google.com/) have online spreadsheets: you can share access by person. Cross-platform too: all you need is javascript capable browser.

Problem being: you'll have to be online for that.

I'd suggest just using OpenOffice Calc, or any program like it.
Of course, if you're sure you will have internet access, feel free to use Google Docs ;-)

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2007-08-05
It is not obvious from chaotic OP info what he wants, so it is hard to tell and help :-)

All we know is that OP is too busy to ask properly for help :-)

---

