---
title: "Driver Programming and Kernel Module Development"
date: 2008-05-19
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by TinOfSoup on 2008-05-19
Hi there!

I'm wanting to get a bit more seriously into Linux programming, and wouldn't mind having a go at writing some simple drivers- preferably loadable kernel modules.

The book I've been going through is pretty old (1999!) and I can't get the example to compile as given anyway. (Same problem as described [HERE](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471071), for those interested- I can't even get the stripped-down example to work. However, that wasn't the question I came here to ask).

**My question is...** Can anyone recommend any good jumping off points and introductions/tutorials to writing drivers and modules tailored to Ubuntu/Xubuntu? 

For that matter, anyone have any suggestions what sort of hardware might be useful to play with (preferably something I *don't* have to built beyond making some basic connections- my electronics skills are minimal to nonexistent)?

Thanks!

- TinOfSoup

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2008-05-19
I know that there are books out there that discuss building Linux kernel drivers/modules.  Try searching Amazon.com.

Linux kernel modules should work, regardless whether you use Ubuntu/Xubuntu, or any of the other flavors of Linux... at least that is my understanding.

Here's a simple kernel module you can play with...

HelloWorld.c:
[PHP]
#include <linux/module.h>

static int __init hello_world( void )
{
  printk( "hello world!\n" );
  return 0;
}

static void __exit goodbye_world( void )
{
  printk( "goodbye world!\n" );
}

module_init( hello_world );
module_exit( goodbye_world );[/PHP]

To compile it, save this statement into a file called Makefile:
[PHP]obj-m += HelloWorld.o[/PHP]

Then on the command line, run this command to build the kernel module:
```
$ make -C /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build M=`pwd`
```

To load the kernel module:
```
$ sudo insmod HelloWorld.ko
```

To unload the kernel module:
```
$ sudo rmmod HelloWorld
```

If you examine the tail end of the file /var/log/messages you will see the output generated by the kernel module.
```
$ sudo tail /var/log/messages
```

---

### Post by supirman on 2008-05-19
The kernel APIs change frequently, and certainly any book from 1999 is of little use.  

See [http://lwn.net/Kernel/LDD3/](http://lwn.net/Kernel/LDD3/), but even it is growing more outdated as the APIs continue to evolve.  You should be able to get many of the examples to work though.  

Linux device drivers (3rd edition) linked above is pretty much the de facto standard book on the subject.

---

### Post by rdileep13 on 2008-05-20
Hi,

I worked on building kernel modules in Fedora sometime back. Now, I'm trying to do the same in Ubuntu.. Strangely, I've got the following error and I'm stuck searching for solution... Kindly help me..


[B]make: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.22-14-generic'
make: *** No rule to make target `modules/sample_module'.  Stop.
make: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.22-14-generic'
[/B]

My linux source code is at /usr/src/linux where linux is a symbolic link. But why is make tring to enter **/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.22-14-generic** directory? 



Thanks..

---

### Post by TinOfSoup on 2008-05-20
Nice! That one actually compiles and works as described (which is more than I can say for the other ones I tried)- good template, cheers :)

---

### Post by TinOfSoup on 2008-05-20
Supirman; Thanks for the pointers, I'll definitely be checking out that book!

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2008-05-20
> **rdileep13 said:**
> Hi,

I worked on building kernel modules in Fedora sometime back. Now, I'm trying to do the same in Ubuntu.. Strangely, I've got the following error and I'm stuck searching for solution... Kindly help me..


[B]make: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.22-14-generic'
make: *** No rule to make target `modules/sample_module'.  Stop.
make: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.22-14-generic'
[/B]

My linux source code is at /usr/src/linux where linux is a symbolic link. But why is make tring to enter **/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.22-14-generic** directory? 



Thanks..

When you run the following command, what is the output?
```
$ uname -r
```
The output will reflect the current version of the Linux kernel that your system is running, and hopefully your system has the source code (headers) for such.

Btw, your kernel module does not have to be in /usr/src/linux.  It can reside anywhere, even your home directory if you wish.

---

### Post by dempl_dempl on 2008-05-20
Hi, 

 I've used this tutorial for learning:

[http://www.stosha.net/component/option,com_mtree/task,viewlink/link_id,381/Itemid,99999999/](http://www.stosha.net/component/option,com_mtree/task,viewlink/link_id,381/Itemid,99999999/)

It's actually ( as I can remember ) bit more up to date than
 the **Linux Device Drivers book**. There is a catch, though. Book covers **device**  drivers , while the tutorial covers drivers in general. 

So , I would suggest you using both. Try with tutorial first, then use the book, when you get more comfortable with the modules :) /

Cheers!

---

### Post by jjabba on 2008-06-24
I've been trying to compile a very simple hello world kernel module in my ubuntu system for some time now. It's a Hardy H installation running kernel 2.6.24-19-386

I've managed to compile the kernel example (which is pretty much like the one above.) but only if I use the "generic" kernel like this:

```
obj-m := first.o

KDIR := /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-19-generic

PWD := $(shell pwd)

default: 
	$(MAKE) -C $(KDIR) SUBDIRS=$(PWD) modules

```

And if I try to load that module all I get is:
```

$sudo insmod first.ko
insmod: error inserting 'first.ko': -1 Invalid module format

```

If I try using the non generic kernel headers in /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24.19/ I get lots and lots of compilation errors for missing files.

Anyone know what I should do?

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2008-06-24
Why not use the kernel that is currently running?

Write your Makefile like:
```
obj-m := first.o

all:
        $(MAKE) -C /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build M=`pwd` modules

clean:
        $(MAKE) -C /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build M=`pwd` clean
        $(RM) Module.markers modules.order

```

---

### Post by jerhee on 2008-08-15
Thank you very much! This is exactly what I needed to get started.

---

### Post by compeee2008 on 2008-10-19
Hello,

I am also trying to compile a module but I am getting the following message:

make -C /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-21-generic SUBDIRS=/home/paul/Desktop/ps3eye/OV534 modules 
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-21-generic'
make[2]: *** No rule to make target `/home/paul/Desktop/ps3eye/OV534/ov534.c', needed by `/home/paul/Desktop/ps3eye/OV534/ov534.o'.  Stop.
make[1]: *** [_module_/home/paul/Desktop/ps3eye/OV534] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-21-generic'
make: *** [all] Error 2

I have typed uname -r and get "2.6.24-21-generic" for response so I changed my make file to 

obj-m := ov534.o
KDIR := /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-21-generic
PWD := $(shell pwd)
all:
	$(MAKE) -C $(KDIR) SUBDIRS=$(PWD) modules 

I'm really stuck and I don't know what else to do? Any tips or ideas to resolve this issue?

P

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2008-10-19
First, do not change the Makefile; leave the `uname -r` as was specified in the earlier post.  The rationale for this is that you may (in the future) change your kernel, and you want this Makefile to be adaptable to that change.

The second thing, verify that your source file (that is, the .c file) has the same name-prefix as specified in obj-m in your Makefile.

So, for instance, if your source file is 'foo.c', then obj-m should be set to 'foo.o'

If you complete these two suggestions, and still have trouble, please let me know!

P.S.  /usr/src/`uname -r` is an Ubuntu (Debian?) thing.  Never rely on this if you plan to port your driver to another Linux system.  The proper path to the kernel files is /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build.  Every (worthy) distro adheres to this standard.

---

### Post by compeee2008 on 2008-10-20
I managed to get my makefile working. I had uppercase for my filename but not in my makefile. That was a bit stupid. Now I'm getting the following error with the headers.

/home/paul/Desktop/ps3eye/OV534/OV534.c:44:30: error: media/v4l2-ioctl.h: No such file or directory

I looked in my header-generic folder and it seems the media folder is a symbolic link to ../../linux-headers-2.6.24-21/include/media. How would I resolve the headers to target a symbolic link folder?

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2008-10-20
On my Ubuntu 8.04 system, within the folder /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build/include/media, there is no file called "v4l2-ioctl.h".

Could you be mistaken with respect to the name of the header file?  I only see the following files:

[LIST]
[*]v4l2-chip-ident.h
[*]v4l2-common.h
[*]v4l2-dev.h
[*]v4l2-int-device.h
[/LIST]

P.S.  I am using kernel 2.6.24-19... it's probably a couple of months old.

---

### Post by compeee2008 on 2008-10-21
My mistake, it isn't in my media folder apart for the same v4l2 headers you've mentioned. From this website, [http://www.isely.net/pvrusb2/history.html](http://www.isely.net/pvrusb2/history.html), it seems to indicate that the v4l2-ioctl.h is used for kernel 2.6.27 and above. I imagine I have to upgrade my kernel to use the file or change the ov534.c code to use the existing v4l2 headers.

---

### Post by Aessa on 2008-10-21
I've also been trying to get a basic kernel module to compile. More specifically, to register a new character device.

If I removed everything I am left with:

```
#include <linux/fs.h>
#include <linux/kernel.h>

#define DEVICE_NAME "mydevice"

static struct file_operations fops = {
	.read = device_read, 
	.write = device_write,
	.open = device_open,
	.release = device_release
};

int main()
{
	int major;
	int res;
 	major = register_chrdev(0, DEVICE_NAME, &fops);
	res = unregister_chrdev(major, DEVICE_NAME);
	return 0;
}
```

which produces this error message with the makefile as propsed earlier in this forum:
error: ‘device_read’ undeclared here (not in a function)

and this for straight compile:
error: variable ‘fops’ has initializer but incomplete type

Both of these are because there is no struct file_operations defined anywhere. It should be in linux/fs.h but isn't.

This is on a fresh install of kubuntu.


Do you need to install kernel source via apt-get, download plain kernel sources and headers or something else? Note that the ubuntu linux headers are installed at present. With these headers there isn't even a linux/modules.h file. Is there a nice ubuntu package that one can install or do you need the standard kernel sources and headers?

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2008-10-21
I can't recall if I had to apt-get the linux headers or not.  If you want to check if they are installed on your system, run:
```
sudo apt-get install kernel-headers
```
Note if that fails, try kernel-headers-`uname -r`

As for the header file you seek, <linux/fs.h>, you can find that in /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build/include/linux.  struct file_operations is defined within fs.h.

WRT kernel character device development, I do not have any experience with such, thus I probably will not be able to help you in that area.

---

### Post by Aessa on 2008-10-22
My bad. The makefile provided here previously works, but you need to .. umm, actually implement the functions you make fops point to. In other words, device_read was undefined because there is no such function in the file.

However, now that it seems I can register a new device and compile a module with the current kernel headers, I notice that you cannot use standard headers anymore. I wanted to use sleep() for a silly test and included <stdio.h> and <stdlib.h> as usual. When compiling, I get errors saying the header files were not found.

Is this a limitation of device driver and kernel module programming? You get dropped into a new world where none of the standard stuff works? If so, how would I be able to make multiple threads or do file I/O? Or is doing this sort of thing in a kernel module a bad idea. Finally, why does it seem that you cannot make a device driver without it being a kernel module? In other words, just a normal binary that you run which creates the new devices.

---

### Post by Aessa on 2008-10-22
Alright. Kernel space is non-pre-emptible (apparently) and also simply cannot use userspace libraries. I might still be wrong.

However, here seems to be a great source of info on everything mentioned so far:
[http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/articles/drivers_linux](http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/articles/drivers_linux)
[http://www.xml.com/ldd/chapter/book/ch03.html](http://www.xml.com/ldd/chapter/book/ch03.html)

---

### Post by aakhil536 on 2009-05-25
I have done a small kernel program...there is no error in compilation..but I'm unable to get the output...some body plz help me.....

I logged in as root
my code is:
...........................................................................................................................

#include<linux/kernel.h>
#include<linux/module.h>
#include<linux/init.h>
int init_module(void)
{
        printk("inside kernel...............\n");
        return 0;
}
void cleanup_module(void)
{
        printk("outside kernel............\n");
        return;
}

.......................................................................................................................



my makefile
..................

obj-m :=first.o
default:
        $(MAKE) -C /lib/modules/$(shell uname -r)/build M=`pwd` modules

....................................................................................................................................




):P[SIZE=7]somebody plz help.....
:KS[SIZE=3][FONT=Book Antiqua]I'm not getting any error but I'm unable to get the o/p...[/FONT][/SIZE]
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by supirman on 2009-05-25
Did you insert your driver to the kernel?  You'd typically do that with insmod or modprobe:
```
insmod first.o
```

Also, printk has a concept of log levels, so the default printk level may be set to a value which doesn't get displayed.  To see if your issue is due to the printk default level, try setting your printk to the highest severity as such:
```
printk(KERN_EMERG "inside kernel...............\n");
```

---

### Post by aakhil536 on 2009-05-25
yaa...I inserted module and I typed **lsmod** & it was there in module....
:popcorn:



[SIZE=3][COLOR=Red]but the thing is that I'm not getting the o/p[/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

### Post by supirman on 2009-05-25
You implemented your init and cleanup methods but you didn't register them so that the kernel knows to call them.  You do this with 

module_init(init_module);
module_exit(cleanup_module);


That registers the init and cleanup functions as callbacks which the kernel will call appropriately.  You didn't do this, hence the kernel knows nothing of your functions.

---

### Post by aakhil536 on 2009-05-26
if we are writing entry point as init_module() and exit point as cleanup_module()..we dont need to register it....if we are some other name other than these for entry and exit we should register it.............however I tried what you told thinking if was wrong....but when I registered I got error....> make -C /lib/modules/2.6.28-12-generic/build M=`pwd` modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.28-12-generic'
  CC [M]  /home/new/first.o
/home/new/first.c:14: error: redefinition of ‘init_module’
/home/new/first.c:5: error: previous definition of ‘init_module’ was here
/home/new/first.c:15: error: expected ‘=’, ‘,’, ‘;’, ‘asm’ or ‘__attribute__’ before ‘_exit’
make[2]: *** [/home/new/first.o] Error 1
make[1]: *** [_module_/home/new] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.28-12-generic'
make: *** [default] Error 2


---

### Post by aakhil536 on 2009-05-26
[SIZE=7][B]plz help....:popcorn:
[/B][/SIZE]

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2009-05-26
> **aakhil536 said:**
> plz help....:popcorn:


So you did try the guide posted by dwhitney67 (post #2), right? Does *that* work for you? The module basically does the same as yours.

---

### Post by ssam on 2009-05-26
there is a free book by greg kh.
[http://www.kroah.com/lkn/](http://www.kroah.com/lkn/)

you can get it on dead tree too.

---

### Post by supirman on 2009-05-26
You're right, the module_init call isn't necessary, though it's preferred.  The hard-coded naming of init_module and cleanup_module is a carryover from 2.4 series kernels and isn't intended to be used any more -- however it does work.


You should be able to see your printks if you run dmesg.  I just compiled your code and I see the printk messages in the dmesg output.

---

### Post by ankscorek on 2010-01-08
make -C /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build M=`pwd`


it gives me this

$: command not found


uname -r is

2.6.31-17-generic

please what am i missing can some one suggest me something

i am using amd64 ....

i apologise

thanx for the tut....

i copied and pasted the $ sign

please pardon my dumbness

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2010-01-08
When referencing tutorials (or whatever) and you see a command that commences with a '$' symbol, that indicates that you should be able to execute the command as a regular user.  When you see a command that commences with the '#' symbol, then you must have root (or sudo) privileges.

In either case, the '$' and the '#' are prompt symbols that are widely used in Unix/Linux domains.

---

### Post by RockinRob2258 on 2010-01-25
dwhitney67, another kernel module newbie would like to thank you for the template.  Have a good rest of the day.

---

### Post by mo.khairy.mo on 2010-03-22
Dear all
i'm a student in electronics engineering and my graduation project is designing a Graphics Card we design the core and the board and we need to interface it using PCIe i'm newbie in the world of linux and i want to write a driver for my card could anyone help me about how to start 

thanks in advance

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2010-03-22
> **mo.khairy.mo said:**
> Dear all
i'm a student in electronics engineering and my graduation project is designing a Graphics Card we design the core and the board and we need to interface it using PCIe i'm newbie in the world of linux and i want to write a driver for my card could anyone help me about how to start 


First of all, it is considered to be bad practice to "capture" a thread. Some moderators here are quite strict in the sense that they often close necromanced threads.

Second, your question has already been answered several times in this forum. Please use the search functionality provided.

However, I'll answer your question anyway: You should seriously consider getting a book. Your university library probably has something like the "Linux Device Drivers" or "Understanding the Linux Kernel" books. Apart from that, there is some technical documentation provided with the Linux kernel. You might want to have a look at that.

---

