---
title: "quickly ubuntu-project accessing main window from prefs dialog"
date: 2010-03-09
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by cometdog on 2010-03-09
So far I'm having fun working with the quickly ubuntu-project (template).  I have done some programming before, but essentially nothing with a GUI, and this was exactly what I needed to get started.

What is the correct way to access the main window object from the preferences dialog that is autogenerated by the ubuntu-project template?

I feel like there must be an obvious answer to this question, but I am not seeing it since I have never worked before with glade and pyGTK.

I am trying to flesh out the preferences dialog, and I actually require access to some of the objects in the main window.  But I can't see any explicit way that the preferences dialog is aware of the main window.  I can't figure out how to access the main application window "object" so that I could do something like main_window_object.builder('label1'), or retrieve some property of the main window, etc.

So far I can work around this as follows.  Here is the code that runs when you click the menu button to open the preferences dialog:

```
def preferences(self, widget, data=None):
        """preferences - display the preferences window for TestProject """
        prefs = PreferencesTestProjectDialog.NewPreferencesTestProjectDialog(self)
        response = prefs.run()
        if response == gtk.RESPONSE_OK:
            #make any updates based on changed preferences here
            pass
        prefs.destroy()
```

As you can see, I added "self" explicitly as an argument to the constructor function, and made the corresponding changes in the preferences dialog code.  Now I have access to the main window object from the dialog.

But is there a different way to accomplish this?  I can't escape the feeling that there is already some built-in way to do this and that my workaround is unnecessary and nonstandard.

---

