---
title: "Problems creating Makefile in KDevelop"
date: 2007-03-30
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by umonkey on 2007-03-30
I just installed Kdevelop and created a new "Hello World" c++ project. When I try to build the project I get this message:

> There is no Makefile in this directory
and no configure script for this project.
Run automake & friends and configure first?"

So I click "Run Them" and then get this sequence of messages in the message tab:

> cd '/home/will/project/dumb' && WANT_AUTOCONF_2_5="1" WANT_AUTOMAKE_1_6="1" make -f Makefile.cvs && mkdir '/home/will/project/dumb/debug' && cd '/home/will/project/dumb/debug' && CXXFLAGS="-O0 -g3" "/home/will/project/dumb/configure" --enable-debug=full && cd '/home/will/project/dumb/debug/src' && WANT_AUTOCONF_2_5="1" WANT_AUTOMAKE_1_6="1" make -k dumb
aclocal
aclocal: configure.in: 8: macro `AM_PROG_LIBTOOL' not found in library
make: *** [all] Error 1
*** Exited with status: 2 ***

I have no idea what AM_PROG_LIBTOOL is. This is the simplest project possible. It only consists of a single source file which was auto-generated by the IDE. Anyone know what is wrong here? :( 

FYI: I am using Ubuntu 6.06 and KDevelop 3.3.2.

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-03-31
AUTOCONF is the autoconf package, and AUTOMAKE is the automake package.
```

  WANT_AUTOCONF_2_5="1"
  WANT_AUTOMAKE_1_6="1" 
```

There are several versions.    It appears you need  autoconf version 2.5 and automake versions 1.6, and the latest libtool should suffice.

```
sudo apt-get install autoconf automake1.6 libtool
```

will get you the latest version of autoconf, and version 1.6 of automake, and the latest version of libtool.  You can also get the latest version of automake as well by removing the 1.6 version.

MrC

---

### Post by alaesmith on 2009-08-17
hallo ,
i have the same problem and I did the instruction but it does not work :s

---

