---
title: "do Makefiles have help sections ?"
date: 2010-09-17
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by abraham.varricatt on 2010-09-17
Playing around with some sources, this is the usual procedure I follow,

```
./configure
make
make install
```For the most part, it works. But there ARE some instances where I might want to tweak the default setting for my system. In such cases, I end up running,

```
./configure --help
```This usually results in a list of options that the configure supports. In a similar manner does such a thing exist for *Makefiles* ? Running this,

```
make --help
```Just gives me the help information about the "Make" utility, but NOT the Makefile that I'm trying to build. Is there any standard or convention where help information relating to a Makefile can be found?

More specifically, I was digging through some Makefiles and I discovered that rather than building the entire package, I could just build the small sub-set that mattered to me. It would have been a LOT easier if I had known this earlier, and I didn't find any such info in the project's README or INSTALL file.

-Abraham V.

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2010-09-17
Create an entry point for the "help" in your Makefile, thus allowing the user to run "make help":
```

...

.PHONY: all clean help


all:
<tab>   ...

lib:
<tab>   ...

clean:
<tab>   ...

help:
<tab>   @echo "Usage: make [all] [lib] [clean] [help] [etc]"
<tab>   @echo ""

...

```

---

### Post by apmcd47 on 2010-09-17
Short of dwhitney67's help target, no. It's not beyond the capability of most developers to do such a thing, but I've never noticed it.

For most packages, reading the README and INSTALL files should be enough, and failing that eyeballing the makefile itself and seeing what the targets are.

I would have thought that most tweaking would be done at the level of the config script, although in the past I've resorted to editing the makefile to remove the -g option.

Andrew

---

### Post by abraham.varricatt on 2010-09-17
Thanks for the replies guys.

Pity it wasn't exactly what I was hoping for.

I my case, YES, I think the configure script does the job of configuring the environment. It's just that I noticed that (in one project) if I manually run the make, I could have it create some doxygen-documentation. This wasn't specified anywhere else and it would have saved me time, had I known.

-Abraham V.

---

### Post by StephenF on 2010-09-17
The thing to note wherever ./configure is present is that the Makefile is generated by the running of ./configure. Any hand crafted make targets will have come from their sources, the Makefile.am files. Better to look in those than the Makefiles themselves.

---

### Post by abraham.varricatt on 2010-09-20
In my case, I think there's a Makefile.in with the project. I'm looking into the autoconf & Makefile man pages now.

-Abraham V.

---

