---
title: "kdevelop can't compile on ubuntu 8.10"
date: 2008-10-12
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by chenym on 2008-10-12
After installing ubuntu8.10 and kdevelop3.5.3,I created a project using template "simple hello world program". Although "Run automake&friends" and "Run configure" was successfully executed, "compile file" and "buile project" generated some errors as follows:

cd '/home/chenym/workspace/test1/debug/src' && WANT_AUTOCONF_2_5="1" WANT_AUTOMAKE_1_6="1" LC_MESSAGES="C" LC_CTYPE="C" make test1.lo
compiling test1.cpp (g++)
../libtool: line 832: X--tag=CXX: command not found
../libtool: line 865: libtool: ignoring unknown tag : command not found
../libtool: line 832: X--mode=compile: command not found
../libtool: line 999: *** Warning: inferring the mode of operation is deprecated.: command not found
../libtool: line 1000: *** Future versions of Libtool will require --mode=MODE be specified.: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: Xg++: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X-DHAVE_CONFIG_H: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X-I.: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X-I/home/chenym/workspace/test1/src: No such file or directory
../libtool: line 1143: X-I..: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X-O0: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X-g3: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X-MT: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: Xtest1.lo: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X-MD: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X-MP: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X-MF: command not found
../libtool: line 1143: X.deps/test1.Tpo: No such file or directory
../libtool: line 1143: X-c: command not found
../libtool: line 1195: Xtest1.lo: command not found
../libtool: line 1200: libtool: compile: cannot determine name of library object from `': command not found
make: *** [test1.lo] Error 1
*** Exited with status: 2 ***

errors generated by "build project":
cd '/home/chenym/workspace/test1/debug' && WANT_AUTOCONF_2_5="1" WANT_AUTOMAKE_1_6="1" LC_MESSAGES="C" LC_CTYPE="C" make
make all-recursive
Making all in src
linking test1 (g++)
../libtool: line 832: X--tag=CXX: command not found
../libtool: line 865: libtool: ignoring unknown tag : command not found
../libtool: line 832: X--mode=link: command not found
../libtool: line 999: *** Warning: inferring the mode of operation is deprecated.: command not found
../libtool: line 1000: *** Future versions of Libtool will require --mode=MODE be specified.: command not found
gcc-4.1: no input files
gcc-4.1: no input files
gcc-4.1: no input files
gcc-4.1: no input files
../libtool: line 2237: X-O0: command not found
../libtool: line 2237: X-g3: command not found
../libtool: line 2406: Xtest1: command not found
X: user not authorized to run the X server, aborting.
../libtool: line 2418: Xtest1: command not found
../libtool: line 2426: mkdir /.libs: No such file or directory
mkdir: cannot create directory `/.libs': Permission denied
make[2]: *** [test1] Error 1
make[1]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make: *** [all] Error 2
*** Exited with status: 2 ***

My environment is configured as follows:
KDE 3.5.10
Qt 3.3.8
g++ 4.1
GNU make 3.81
perl 5.10.0
autoconf 2.61
automake 1.9.6
flex 2.5.35
libtool 2.2.2
Berkley 4.3

I have been puzzled for two days. I appreciate any help for this problem.

---

### Post by matelich on 2008-10-15
Have you found anything out?  I'm having the same problem trying to compile bzflag's mainline codebase on Intrepid beta.

---

### Post by matelich on 2008-10-15
Hmm, just went to [http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/libtool](http://packages.ubuntu.com/intrepid/libtool) and noticed that for Intrepid, they upgraded libtool to version 2.2.4, while Hardy used 1.5.26.  I see errors all over the place involving issues with the upgrade, but not a guide yet...

---

### Post by GunnarKj on 2008-10-19
hmm, I have the same problem after upgrading to 8.10.

---

### Post by vilaincoco on 2008-10-26
Exactly the same for me!
Hope there will be solutions to fix that...

---

### Post by borris.morris on 2008-10-27
Same problem here. :S I'd really love to get this taken care of. It makes it hard to do my programming. :(

---

### Post by keep-on-smiling on 2008-10-27
Hi

I cannot believe this ! I left Gentoo because this happened (the libtool upgrade - and the fact that I was having so much fun tweaking I got no studies done...).

The solution mentioned to me back in Gentoo was to run

libtoolize --copy --force

before building each project - maybe it will work for you ?

---

### Post by grinias on 2008-10-28
> **keep-on-smiling said:**
> Hi

I cannot believe this ! I left Gentoo because this happened (the libtool upgrade - and the fact that I was having so much fun tweaking I got no studies done...).

The solution mentioned to me back in Gentoo was to run

libtoolize --copy --force

before building each project - maybe it will work for you ?

You mean run it in a konsole? Obviously, I have the same problem and I solved it by downgrading libtool.

---

### Post by borris.morris on 2008-10-28
That's what I ended up doing as well.... Kinda lame, cause now I have this pesky "You have one upgrade" all the time...

---

### Post by keep-on-smiling on 2008-10-28
hi grinias

yep - as far as i remember i cd'd to the project and ran that command - as i recall, it did work, but the need to do this really irritated me - so i ended using geany in ubuntu and codeblocks in xp (yes codeblocks IS in ubuntu, but i could never get it to reload my workspace automatically, even when specifically saving it - always it did the blank workspace...)

cheers

---

### Post by liam_p on 2008-10-31
Hello,

Not sure if this will help anyone but I ran into the same problems.

after a dist clean automake complained about missing files.

after a automake --fix-missing, everything works.

Maybe its an issue with kdevelop templates rather than libtool?

Just a thought and hope this helps someone,

Cheers, :)

Liam

---

### Post by MagiSu on 2008-10-31
yes, I am in the same boat with you. Well, hope it can be fixed soon. I really need kdevelop a lot.

---

### Post by neozelit on 2008-11-01
Hi, dowgrading libtool worked for me!!

Kedevelop 3.5.3 (using KDE 3.5.10)
libtool 1.5.26.
Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex)

Thank you all...

---

### Post by MagiSu on 2008-11-01
> **neozelit said:**
> Hi, dowgrading libtool worked for me!!

Kedevelop 3.5.3 (using KDE 3.5.10)
libtool 1.5.26.
Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex)

Thank you all...

it works!

---

### Post by vilaincoco on 2008-11-01
Yes!
Thanks!

sudo apt-get remove libtool
Download libtool_1.5.26-1ubuntu1_i386.deb
libtool_1.5.26-1ubuntu1_i386.deb
[http://ftp.sjtu.edu.cn/ubuntu/pool/main/libt/libtool/libtool_1.5.26-1ubuntu1_i386.deb](http://ftp.sjtu.edu.cn/ubuntu/pool/main/libt/libtool/libtool_1.5.26-1ubuntu1_i386.deb)
Install it!

---

### Post by ReallyVirtual on 2008-11-04
Downgrade worked for me too. Thanks for saving me a few minutes of my life in troubleshooting :)

---

### Post by masch on 2008-11-05
I did the downgrade but i have this error:

cd '/home/mchacon/kde/debug' && WANT_AUTOCONF_2_5="1" WANT_AUTOMAKE_1_6="1" LC_MESSAGES="C" LC_CTYPE="C" make -k 
make all-recursive
Making all in src
linking kde (g++)
../libtool: line 832: X--tag=CXX: command not found
../libtool: line 865: libtool: ignoring unknown tag : command not found
../libtool: line 832: X--mode=link: command not found
../libtool: line 999: *** Warning: inferring the mode of operation is deprecated.: command not found
../libtool: line 1000: *** Future versions of Libtool will require --mode=MODE be specified.: command not found
gcc: no input files
gcc: no input files
gcc: no input files
gcc: no input files
../libtool: line 2237: X-O0: command not found
../libtool: line 2237: X-g3: command not found
../libtool: line 2406: Xkde: command not found
X: user not authorized to run the X server, aborting.
make[2]: Nothing to be done for `all-am'.
../libtool: line 2418: Xkde: command not found
../libtool: line 2426: mkdir /.libs: No such file or directory
mkdir: cannot create directory `/.libs': Permission denied
make[2]: *** [kde] Error 1
make[2]: Target `all' not remade because of errors.
make[1]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make: *** [all] Error 2
*** Exited with status: 2 ***

Can somebody help me how to fix it?

Thank you

---

### Post by borris.morris on 2008-11-05
make a new project?

---

### Post by masch on 2008-11-05
Thank you so much!...It's Work!
Salu2...

---

### Post by grinias on 2008-11-12
I prefer the solution "keep-on-smiling" gave, instead of downgrading for the same reason "borris.morris" mentioned, i.e. "this pesky "You have one upgrade" all the time..." Thank you all anyway...

---

### Post by neozelit on 2008-11-12
> **grinias said:**
> I prefer the solution "keep-on-smiling" gave, instead of downgrading for the same 
reason "borris.morris" mentioned, i.e. "this pesky "You have one upgrade" all the time..." Thank you all anyway...

Like I said I downgraded libtool, but I don't get the "you have an upgrade" sign !!
 I've installed updates with "update manager" twice since the downgrade. Kdevelop keeps working well.. maybe it's because I'm working on the same progect?? don't know...
 I would just like to know where and when do you get the annoyng alert, so I can avoid pressing "Yes to all". Thks.

---

### Post by grinias on 2008-11-13
Yes, is because you work on the same project. Obviously, libtool has been upgraded again and thusfore, you do not see the "annoyng alert".

---

### Post by SergeR on 2008-11-19
I have solved the problem by replacing ltmain.sh file within the project directory with previous one generated while older libtool was installed. After that all is working fine with new version of libtool installed in the system. Also you need to put --mode=execute in the debug properties otherwise program will not start when debugging.

Best Regards
Serge

---

### Post by imho74 on 2008-12-31
I think this is a problem of KDevelop, because they use an outdated script of ltmain.sh in their template files. Intrepid Ibex is shipped with libtool version 2.2.4 but the ltmain.sh file in the KDevelop templates creates a libtool version 1.5.24. Now I can replace every libtool in my source tree with a link to /usr/bin/libtool to fix this but there is a better workaround to do this for all KDevelop projects:

First I've copied the directory "/usr/share/apps/kdevappwizard/" to "$HOME/.kde/share/apps/". Next I've extract the archive "$HOME/.kde/share/apps/kdevappwizard/template-common/incadmin.tar.gz" and I've replaced the old file "ltmain.sh" with the new one from "/usr/share/libtool/config/ltmain.sh". Then I've packed the archive again to a new one named "incadmin.tar.gz" and replaced the old archive with the new one. Now the script ltmain.sh creates a current libtool in the source tree of my program while compilation and my source code compiles without any error.

There is no need anymore for downgrade libtool in Intrepid Ibex.

I have attached my new archive "incadmin.tar.gz" with the new file "ltmain.sh" included. Hope this will help.

Regards,
Christian

---

### Post by rewtedesco on 2009-01-02
thanks for that hint with overwriting ltmain.sh. 
It works for me, but easier: I didn't want to move too much stuff around and simply copied 
cp /usr/usr/share/libtool/config/ltmain.sh  ~/someproject/.

in my home directory. This overwrites the there existing ltmain.sh for one particular project. Then all I had to do is start in kdevelop's menu
distclean, configure, automake, and all was fine, kdevelop can then build the project.

---

### Post by mehellra on 2009-01-27
I had the same problem with kdevelop-3.5.3 installed on Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid) and run on X64-86 laptop, 
I wish I was found the solution "imho74" mentioned before but I've already downgraded to libtool_1.5.26 ,
any way downgrade works well for me
open synaptic package manager
setting>repositories
Third-Party-software
add
in the text box which will open paste something like this
deb [http://fr.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://fr.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hardy main
you can find other url from this link
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/i386/libtool/download](http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/i386/libtool/download)
finally press AddSource
then close
press Reload
in synaptic package manager find libtool
mark for remove- then apply
again
in synaptic package manager find libtool
mark for install
go to
Package>Force Version> select libtool_1.5.26
apply the changes

thanks to all

---

### Post by vito77 on 2009-02-10
Hello everybody,

I've tried to make kdevelop working as you suggest (by downgrading libtool) but I obtained this error:

> 
cd '/home/vito/Scrivania/prova' && WANT_AUTOCONF_2_5="1" WANT_AUTOMAKE_1_6="1" LC_MESSAGES="C" LC_CTYPE="C" make -f Makefile.cvs && mkdir '/home/vito/Scrivania/prova/debug' && cd '/home/vito/Scrivania/prova/debug' && CFLAGS="-O0 -g3 " "/home/vito/Scrivania/prova/configure" --enable-debug=full && cd '/home/vito/Scrivania/prova/debug' && WANT_AUTOCONF_2_5="1" WANT_AUTOMAKE_1_6="1" LC_MESSAGES="C" LC_CTYPE="C" make -k 
aclocal
autoheader
automake
configure.in:8: required file `./config.guess' not found
configure.in:8: `automake --add-missing' can install `config.guess'
configure.in:8: required file `./config.sub' not found
configure.in:8: `automake --add-missing' can install `config.sub'
configure.in:4: required file `./install-sh' not found
configure.in:4: `automake --add-missing' can install `install-sh'
configure.in:4: required file `./missing' not found
configure.in:4: `automake --add-missing' can install `missing'
src/Makefile.am: required file `./depcomp' not found
src/Makefile.am: `automake --add-missing' can install `depcomp'
configure.in:8: required file `./ltmain.sh' not found
make: *** [all] Error 1
*** Exited with status: 2 ***


may you help me, please?
thank you in advance

             vito

---

### Post by flerchjj on 2009-02-23
This is more than just an issue with kdevelop. I have a similar problem trying to run **make** for **swfdec** from the command line and other people have reported similar problems on [_vlc forums_]("http://forum.videolan.org/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=53000") and [_owfs_]("http://www.nabble.com/New-owfs,-new-Ubuntu,-new-problems-td20511130.html"). The VLC forum suggest replacing the line **ECHO="echo"** in the libtool file with **echo="echo"**. Copying /usr/bin/libtool into the directory you're working in seems to work as described [_here_]("http://www.nabble.com/New-owfs,-new-Ubuntu,-new-problems-td20511130.html").

---

### Post by jal_nl on 2009-03-05
Ok, the problem seems to be that $echo is not defined somehow (don't know why it should normally be defined), but everything seems to work if you do a "export echo=echo" and then run the libtool command manually (or somehow put the export in your start-up script, whatever).

I didn't downgrade, and it seems to work with the trick above. The error message was because of a `$echo "X$arg"` and with echo not defined, well you get it. Don't know if it's a libtool error, but it seems to be, if $echo is not defined, it restarts the shell, the comment saying something like "hope it works this time". Aaargh.

EDIT: Ok, didn't read post above. That should probably also work. Searched for 'echo' but not for 'ECHO'. Still seems a libtool bug, but I may be wrong.


JAL

---

### Post by ckpyn on 2009-03-29
Thanks very much. I also meet the same problem.
My OS:Ubuntu 8.10
My KDE:3.5.10
C++ IDE:KDevelop 3.5.3

To modify libtool and I solve it:lolflag:.

---

### Post by ckpyn on 2009-03-30
[QUOTE=ckpyn;6980098]Thanks very much. I also meet the same problem.
My OS:Ubuntu 8.10
My KDE:3.5.10
C++ IDE:KDevelop 3.5.3

To modify libtool and solve the problem:lolflag:

---

### Post by yoni_m on 2009-04-01
see the post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6992834#post6992834](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6992834#post6992834)

---

