---
title: "Using custom header files in C."
date: 2010-08-29
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-08-29
I've been teaching myself some C, and as an exercise, tried to call an external function named swap.
_main.c_
```

#include "swap.h"
#include <stdio.h>

void main()
{
int a=1;
int b=2;
swap (&a,&b);
printf ("a=%d\n", a);
printf ("b=%d\n",b);
}
```

Swap is declare in swap.h and defined in swap.c:

_swap.h_
```
void swap (int* a, int* b);
```

_swap.c_
```
void swap (int* a, int* b)
{
    int temp;
    temp = *a;
    *a = *b;
    *b = temp;
}
```

When main.c is compiled, gcc complains that swap is undefined.
```
gcc -o main main.c
/tmp/ccCMPASM.o: In function `main':
main.c:(.text+0x29): undefined reference to `swap'
collect2: ld returned 1 exit status

```
Needless to say, all three files are in the same directory.
Does anyone see what's the problem?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2010-08-29
1) main returns int: int main(void), and add a return.

2) You have to first compile both .c files to .o files, then link them:

```
gcc -c main.c swap.c
gcc -o main main.o swap.o
```

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-08-29
Yes! Thank you so much!
Been trying to figure this out half of the day.:)

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2010-08-29
I find it easiest to just do all the modules in one command

gcc *.c

That assumes that I have separate folder with all the .c files for each project... but that's what I do anyway ;)

Once the program works to my satisfaction I rename a.out to something sensible.

---

### Post by James78 on 2010-08-29
FYI: When your project gets bigger and you include the header file at least twice in your project, you'll start getting errors about everything being redefined. To fix it, read [this]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Include_guard").

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2010-08-30
> **worksofcraft said:**
> I find it easiest to just do all the modules in one command

gcc *.c

That assumes that I have separate folder with all the .c files for each project... but that's what I do anyway ;)

Once the program works to my satisfaction I rename a.out to something sensible.

The next step to take is using a Makefile ;)

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2010-08-30
hi
be careful - there is already a "swap.h" in /usr/include/sys/swap.h
and just for a hint --> try this code:

void swap(int *i_a, int *i_b)
{
    *(i_a) ^= *(i_b);
    *(i_b) ^= *(i_a);
    *(i_a) ^= *(i_b);
}

so see you ain't need a temporay field with int.
have fun with C - it's a never ending story.
ciao

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-08-30
> **nvteighen said:**
> The next step to take is using a Makefile ;)

Indeed. How would one go about writing a make file for something like this?
```
main:
      gcc -c main.c swap.c
      gcc -o main main.o swap.o

clean:
      *.o main
```
The one above seems to work.

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2010-08-30
The file you have shown is a Makefile, however I doubt that the 'clean' entry point does anything useful.

Here's (one way) how the Makefile could be done better:
```

APP     = main

SRCS    = main.c swap.c
OBJS    = $(SRCS:.c=.o)

CFLAGS  = -Wall -pedantic -g
LDFLAGS =

$(APP): $(OBJS)
      $(CC) $^ $(LDFLAGS) -o $@

.c.o:
      $(CC) $(CFLAGS) -c $<

clean:
      $(RM) $(OBJS)
      $(RM) $(APP)

```
Note that a tab-space is required before each statement; for example:
```

$(APP): $(OBJS)
<tab>$(CC) $^ $(LDFLAGS) -o $@

```

---

### Post by nvteighen on 2010-08-30
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Indeed. How would one go about writing a make file for something like this?
```
main:
      gcc -c main.c swap.c
      gcc -o main main.o swap.o

clean:
      *.o main
```
The one above seems to work.

Not bad, but it still will recompile everything every time you want main to be recompiled. That's unnecessary, you can always recompile just the modified modules and then just relink everything, thus saving a lot of time.

```

CFLAGS = -Wall -Wextra # Use variables for abstraction :)

# Always include "helpers" as dependencies for .PHONY so no conflict is possible
# with a file called 'clean' or 'all'.

.PHONY: all clean 

all: main # A usual thing to do... not necessary

main: main.o swap.o
	gcc -o $@ $< $(CFLAGS) # $@ = target, $< = input

%.o: %.c # for each .c, create a .o
	gcc -c $^ $(CFLAGS) # $^ = $< but takes each file at once.

clean:
	rm *.o

```

This Makefile will just recompile the modules that were modified and then relink. You can do this even more flexible. For example, usually the list of .o files you see as dependencies for 'main' is generated by processing all the sources' names, saving in variable and creating another variable replacing .c by .o... then using that variable's value as dependency for 'main'.

---

