---
title: "Some questions about php"
date: 2009-10-26
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by nebu on 2009-10-26
I have two php files xml.php and usexml.php

now this is what i have to implement.....

the xml.php produces xml data and the usexml.php parses the xml data provided by xml.php and then produces a html output using the data.....

how do i implement such functionality

---

### Post by Arndt on 2009-10-26
> **nebu said:**
> I have two php files xml.php and usexml.php

now this is what i have to implement.....

the xml.php produces xml data and the usexml.php parses the xml data provided by xml.php and then produces a html output using the data.....

how do i implement such functionality

What information have you been given about PHP, HTML and XML so far?

You say "you have" those files. So what is it they do now? Nothing?

---

### Post by januzi on 2009-10-26
Take a look at the php.net (simplexml, xml). There will be a lot of comments and examples.

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2009-10-26
Hi there to quickly render xml you will need to use the php header function to render the page as xml,

can't remeber exact code but it's along the lines of;
header("Content-Type: xml/plain") or text/xml

this must apear at the verry top of the page.

also if you wanted to add a bit more fun you can have apache render xml as php so you can put you php contents in a .xml file. (many cms systems use this method for .html pages).

in .htaccess or httpd.conf add a mime type

---

### Post by nebu on 2009-10-27
you guys misunderstood me...

i have already coded the file which produces the xml output

however... i want to read the response this file makes by sending it a request from another php file

i have tried using the include() function to get the response from the php file.... however i just get the code from the php file which produces the xml rather than getting the actual xml....

---

### Post by CyberJack on 2009-10-27
If you want the parsed code (xml output) you need to get the url instead of the file directly.
Then the $xml variable contains the xml generated by xml.php

[PHP]
$xml = file_get_contents('http://<url>/xml.php');
[/PHP]

---

### Post by nebu on 2009-10-27
ty

tht helped

---

