---
title: "&quot;make&quot; - linker cannot find libraries"
date: 2006-05-25
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Curtisc on 2006-05-25
I'm trying to migrate a project over to linux (from windows).  It's a plugin for a cross platform program, and it uses the insight toolkit.  I've got a linux makefile for it, and I got rid of all the "typename" errors, but I can't figure out how to tell the linker where the ITK libraries are located.  In the makefile (automatically generated by the program), there's a way to tell it INCLUDES and LIBS, but not a library path.  I figure there must be some environment variable somewhere - but where??

---

### Post by hod139 on 2006-05-25
-L is how you can specify link path locations.  In a makefile I tend to do something like this:

LDFLAGS = -L/usr/local/lib

---

### Post by Curtisc on 2006-05-25
hmm... I'm not explaining this quite right... The problem is, this makefile was generated for me by the program the module is written for, and the library paths don't seem to be specified anywhere that I can see.  However, I know they're being specified somewhere, because gcc knows where to find the libraries specific to the program, just not to ITK.  I can't seem to find where they're specified though.

---

### Post by hod139 on 2006-05-26
[quote=Curtisc]The problem is, this makefile was generated for me by the program the module is written for, and the library paths don't seem to be specified anywhere that I can see.[/quote]

What program generated the makefile?  You should be able to tell that program the library paths, which would generate -Lpath/to/lib in the LIBS section of the makefile.

---

