---
title: "[SOLVED] Generating JavaDoc documentation through make docs_html"
date: 2008-01-16
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by SandyKhan on 2008-01-16
I have installed javaDoc documentation tool along with JDK 1.4.2, but I am unable to generate documentation through it.

Whenever I run the **make docs_html** command, the following error appears:

make: *** No rule to make target `docs_html'. Stop.

Please, guide me how to resolve this. I am building a CLDC Reference Port of phoneME Feature software.

---

### Post by xlinuks on 2008-01-16
Well I hope you're not bound to use JDK version 1.4, better install jdk 1.6 from SUN.
then, from the console enter a folder with source code, say /usr/lib/jvm/src/java/awt/
and run "javadoc *.java", that will generated the documentation for the whole java.awt package. Then read the documentation on javadoc to customize the output.
If you don't like the pain, just download the documentation for your JDK from SUN's site.
For instance the documentation for JDK 1.4 is at
[http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/download.html#docs](http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/download.html#docs)

Regards

---

### Post by SandyKhan on 2008-01-16
well, javadoc is working right if it is called directly by **javadoc fil.java**, but it is not responding to an implicit call generated by **make docs_html** similar to** make doc** for doxygen.

can u help me in this regard?

---

### Post by xlinuks on 2008-01-16
I haven't used doxygen so can't help here, but javadoc has got lots of options perhaps some of them might help, on the other hand sometimes it's pretty unclear what every option is for.
As I mentioned above, why wouldn't you just download the documentation for your JDK, this might be a lot easier and faster, since creating docs for the entire JDK might take hours.

---

### Post by geirha on 2008-01-17
When you run: make docs_html, the make programs looks for a line beginning with ```
docs_html:
``` in Makefile in the current directory. Have a look in Makefile (might be called makefile or GNUmakefile too) and see what it does. There's obviously no target named docs_html, perhaps it's called doc_html, docs, install_docs, install_html or something like that?

---

