---
title: "Basic problem with Anjuta"
date: 2006-02-07
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by wilsonisme on 2006-02-07
Whenever I try to build anything, anjunta never creates an executable and gives me that "the command make does not exsist" or something to that effect.

Anyone know what I should install to fix this?

---

### Post by hod139 on 2006-02-07
Install the build-essential package
```

sudo apt-get install build-essential

```

---

### Post by wilsonisme on 2006-02-07
thank you :KS

---

### Post by wilsonisme on 2006-02-08
hmm.. im trying to compile ("Build All") this simple test program:

> /* Created by Anjuta version 1.2.4 */
/*	This file will not be overwritten */

#include <iostream>
int main()
{
	std::cout << "Hello world" << std::endl;
	return 0;
}

It is now giving me a different error: 
make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found. Stop.
Completed... unsuccessful.

---

### Post by gord on 2006-02-08
have you created a new project and added that file to the project? (or just edited the main.cpp file anjuta gives you). if you don't do that then anjuta won't automatically create the ./configure files, n if you don't have one of those your Makefile won't be created.

---

### Post by wilsonisme on 2006-02-08
hmm now it is telling me that I need to install glib. I checked synaptic (I have multiverse etc enabled) and don't see anything that is directly named glib. What should I install to gain this?

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-02-08
Look for libglib instead of glib.

---

### Post by wilsonisme on 2006-02-08
Weird, they appeared to be installed, so why would it be yelling at me to install glib? Synaptic screenie attatched

[IMG]http://img145.imageshack.us/img145/9523/repos2qi.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by gord on 2006-02-08
you need the -dev packages, those packages provide the header files so that programs can link to the libarys

---

### Post by wilsonisme on 2006-02-08
installed those, now I am getting: 
[IMG]http://img52.imageshack.us/img52/7069/screenshot9mh.png[/IMG]
Who would of thought making a hello world, (even) on linux would be so difficult :D 

Thanks for all the continous help by the way guys, very much appreciated

By the way, what is the difference between the compile and build functions? (Neither produce anything I can use "Build>Execute" on right now)

---

### Post by gord on 2006-02-08
you don't have a makefile in your project, so make doesn't have any instructions on what to do. the makefile should be automatically generated by anjuta but if you had problems when you created the project its feasable that your project wasn't set up properly,

try going to Build -> Auto generate, if that doesn't work make sure you have a version of automake installed. then try Build-all

if that all doesn't work then try starting a new project

---

### Post by nixclusive on 2006-02-08
Compile makes an object file from source for you and make turns it to machine executable code.

---

### Post by wilsonisme on 2006-02-08
it's working now, I just had to re install automake for some reason. Thanks!

---

### Post by jan on 2006-03-24
i got the "glib" error as well, installed the -dev libraries and now it works great, besides me learning how to program... ](*,)

---

