---
title: ".java editor? any suggestions?"
date: 2008-08-18
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Garratt on 2008-08-18
I started studying c++, Java, and sql at uni cpl weeks ago, in java for first 8 weeks or 1st semester (or so) we are using Jcreator in lectures/classes... I tried to get this to work under WINE but could not, so i downloaded netbeans, i got all sorts of problems with netbeans.
1. cannot make a simple file to do an exercise i have to make a project
2. cannot open .java files, can only open netbeans.project.lame files
3. its excessive for what i need
4. windows keep opening up blank (its some wierd bug: like clicking "new file" brings up a blank window instead of a window where i can click new project, or new class, etc)

I tried Scite Text editor.... it builds but does not compile .java files correctly (compile does same as build so it seems, and gives no output)

I tried Jedit - no build or compile, even downloaded about 30 plugins for it but no compiler....

in c++ i use notepad++ running under WINE and g++ compile in terminal

can i do this for java somehow (i know vi is c/c++ so probably a dumb question)? 
and if so what is the command?

really all i need is a program to open .java, close .java, save, save-as, build, complie with output! would be nice :D 
(color coding, indents, and line numbers would be an extra bonus)

Garratt.

---

### Post by diggity on 2008-08-18
I would recommend Eclipse for a java editor.

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2008-08-18
If you don't need any real IDE features you can just as well just keep a terminal open and run javac and java directly from there. Having a fancy nice button really adds nothing to your experience, and at least you get to see the output as it is.

I would recommend you grab either Eclipse or Netbeans though once graduate from the very basics. Java is big and verbose, you really need all the help you can get.

---

### Post by AxiomShell on 2008-08-18
For simple editing tasks I would use Vim (don't forget :syntax on :-) ) and javac from the command line.

For bigger projects, Eclipse or (personal favourite) Netbeans.

---

### Post by Garratt on 2008-08-19
well i tried eclipse,. 
seems ok but still while auto-building is a nice feature it doesnt compile in output.
hitting run brought up a window asking me to choose a file type(i thought that was pretty fkn obvious by the .java ext) anyway so i choose java application
then it expects me to go into the run config and mess around with settings so i do, the run button down the bottom is still greyed out no matter how many settings i destroy and mess with.

so yea, ...

this is netbeans: nice big blank grey boxes that do nothing

[IMG]http://img372.imageshack.us/img372/5205/netbooboo3yl9.jpg[/IMG]
[IMG]http://img372.imageshack.us/img372/6227/netbooboo2us7.jpg[/IMG]

and ontop of the bugs, it doesn't read the jde, or automatically use java classes... w/e... no such package called system

[IMG]http://img151.imageshack.us/img151/2773/systemle8.jpg[/IMG]

i'm sure it's good if you spend 4 weeks intensive learning about how to use it, but for the moment i don't have the time.

---

### Post by Garratt on 2008-08-19
how do i run java through terminal?

eg with c++ i use:

 cd to dir
 g++ example01.cpp -o example01
then if it builds without errors
 ./example01

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2008-08-19
Are you running the Sun JDK?

On Netbeans, do you have Compiz desktop effects turned on? Swing doesn't like it IIRC.

I am not sure what you mean about Eclipse not compiling... the "run configuration" system is there for a reason; I'm not sure what you're doing wrong not to get a proper run configuration... do you have a "main" in your class? :)

```

javac YourClass.java

```

---

### Post by Garratt on 2008-08-19
yep...

it was just a simple test.

// helloworld.java file

public class helloworld {

public static void main(String args[]){

  system.out.println("Hello, World");
}
}

and it wouldn't run in eclipse. basically the run is greyed out, and wants me to change settings or something i played around a bit with it but couldn't get it to enlighten and run.

and in netbeans the same file would say error: no package called system.

don't worry  ill just revert to vista or run an xp virtual machine or something, too much fuking around to do with linux and not enuf time to do it unfortunately. I would have liked to get "something" working as im getting a laptop next week and was going to run linux on that too...

edit: and yes i got jdk, i did have compiz on, but even if i turn it off im still going to have to get my head around netbeans and i CBF at the moment (eg importing sytem)

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2008-08-19
Well, for me both Eclipse and Netbeans run straight out of the box at least as soon as I've got the Sun-JDK chosen and I develop professionally on Linux so.. ;)

---

### Post by leg on 2008-08-19
I have been using Geany recently and think it is a brilliant editor. For simple Java programs it would be ideal as you can compile through the ide for a file and set up projects if you want to. I haven't used it with projects yet but otherwise I am very happy with it.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-08-19
It sounds like you're making it much more complicated than necessary for yourself...

You can just use a simple text edit such as gedit, it includes syntax highlighting for Java.

Compiling in a terminal window is easy. See Sun's [Getting Started](http://java.sun.com/docs/books/tutorial/getStarted/cupojava/unix.html) tutorial.

---

### Post by Garratt on 2008-08-19
absolutely.. perfect.. Thanks :D


[IMG]http://img145.imageshack.us/img145/5017/screenshotnk2.jpg[/IMG]

---

