---
title: "2.6.22 kernel"
date: 2007-07-10
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2007-07-10
Doesn't seem like ubuntu upgrades kernels without complete system change.Question is how hard is it to upgrade the kernel myself.2.6.22 kernel  sounds pretty good.
[http://www.internetnews.com/dev-news/article.php/3687741](http://www.internetnews.com/dev-news/article.php/3687741)
:guitar:

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2007-07-10
Ok found the kernel at 
[http://distrowatch.com/](http://distrowatch.com/)
Latest Packages
anyone know how or point the way for info installation
:guitar:

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2007-07-10
yep,
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=311158](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=311158)

:)

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2007-07-10
Thanks going to give it a try.
:guitar:

---

### Post by Tomosaur on 2007-07-10
While it's always good to know how to change the kernel yourself, I would advise you to think before you commit to it, since if it goes wrong, it can be a pain in the backside to get things working again (which is why most kernel guides will advise you to make backups and stuff). The way I see it, if your current kernel is doing the job, then there's no point risking the headaches a failed experiment could give.

However, it's entirely up to you :P

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2007-07-10
> **Tomosaur said:**
> While it's always good to know how to change the kernel yourself, I would advise you to think before you commit to it, since if it goes wrong, it can be a pain in the backside to get things working again (which is why most kernel guides will advise you to make backups and stuff). The way I see it, if your current kernel is doing the job, then there's no point risking the headaches a failed experiment could give.

However, it's entirely up to you :P

kernels are installed side by side on /boot and /lib. They won't mix.

If something goes wrong (and if it wont whats the fun ;)), it's just a matter of reboot and choose the default Ubuntu kernel  again
:)

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2007-07-10
Yeah i messed up some how did a complete reinstall was no big deal since it was a new install anyways but ya dont know what ya can do unless you try.guess i'll wait for new ubuntu system.
:guitar:

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2007-07-11
How do you managed to messed the system? booting with the default kernel didn't work?

I should have advise you to use xconfig or gconfig cause they make life much more easy specially if one has no experience with it.

Or maybe you forget step 8 of the how-to and end-up with a minimum kernel, with no modules or something like that...

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2007-07-11
Your right when step 8 came up with all the questions .i did what i did a the DMV started guessing .then realizing that i problily screwed up i quit.so the system was still good with old kernel i just decided to reformat . i"m going to give it another try .

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2007-07-20
AH HA SUCCESS now for the reboot BRB
:guitar:

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2007-07-20
> **Gremlinzzz said:**
> AH HA SUCCESS now for the reboot BRB
:guitar:

So you don't give up :) 
Good!! 
Tell us how it go. Good luck.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2007-07-20
BTW, if you went to a lot of trouble to set your system up and you want to experiment without shedding tears, use VMware Server and experiment in a virtual machine.

Cheers,

Herman

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2007-07-21
OK no more kernel building for me back to the noobe farm.:(

---

