---
title: "Shell Script and stderr redirect with pipe"
date: 2008-01-13
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by _ham_ on 2008-01-13
Hi,

this question has a bit to do with both shell scripting and makefiles.

Th basic problem is how can I detect an error when a command is piped.

This is what I am trying to do:  I want to reformat the errors given by g++ or some other compiler so an IDE can correctly parse it.

So my rule in the makefile is this:

%.o: %.cpp
  @$(CXX) | sed 's_:\([0-9]*\):_(\1)_'

CXX is just the command to run the compiler.

This works well except that the makefile no longer abort when g++ aborts on error.  The makefile just keeps going becuase the error is lost in the pipe.

Any help well be appreciated.

Thanks.



'

---

### Post by geirha on 2008-01-13
One way of parsing the errors, is to redirect stderr to stdout, then sed will capture them through the pipe: command 2>&1 | sed 's/error/something/'

The reason make continues, is because you run two commands in that line, g++ and sed. sed is run last, so it's sed's return value make checks. And sed will probably always return true.

You should probably run sed on the output of make, rather than "inside" make. Something like: ```
make 2>error.log;sed 's/error/something/' error.log
```

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2008-01-13
You are asking for a solution and really haven't presented the problem.  Please explain further why your IDE is having trouble parsing errors generated by g++.  Also it would be helpful to know what IDE you are using? 

Btw, your Makefile statement is not compiling anything.  Did you not mean to have something like:
```
.cpp.o:
        @echo Compiling $<
        @$(CXX) -c $< -o $@
```

As for the pipe and the 'sed' that comes afterwards, I can't comment on that.  It seems bizarre to see it.

---

