---
title: "total mess with gcc and g++"
date: 2012-10-29
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by thedardanius on 2012-10-29
ok, so Im a windows C++ programmer.
Now i create a linux program and I downloaded codeblocks and gcc compiler(which was already installed). THe problem now is:
I tried to compile the code generated by the compiler itself (demo code for opengl apps) but it said that it missed header. So i looked in the standard directory (usr/local/include/) and i didnt found ANYTHING! what do you call that. I´never heard of a compiler coming without standard headers/libraries. So now im totally confused.

I;m new to linux and the programming, the working the makefiles...is there any tutorial on basic gcc/g++ and which sdk should I download? Ive already downloded xlib11 dev, but where is stdio? PLEASE help me out of this turmoil.

---

### Post by thedardanius on 2012-10-29
where are the standard opengl headers/libs???
what is a .so? Im not familiar with linux terms../

---

### Post by Majorix on 2012-10-29
This should install what you need:
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

EDIT: This was in reply to your first post.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2012-10-29
Not going to flame here; but windows and linux compilers are *totally  *different. I'd suggest getting used to that fast. :)

*Generated by the compiler itself-*what? You mean code-blocks generated code?

*OpenGL apps-* Oh lordy. How much do you know about OpenGL, and do you know whether you want to program with or without the extensions and 3.x features like shaders? Btw OpenGL is not a standard library (and I doubt it is on windows either)

General info:

-Linux has several (default) include paths. You're only looking in one. Just including <stdio.h>  should work great.

-Don't download SDKs unless you need to. Use APT to install *-dev packages. Examples include libgl1-mesa-dev (the Mesa OpenGL headers), libgtk-3-dev (GTK+ 3.x development headers)....you get the point. This ain't windows. :)


Hints:

-Ditch both *make *and *Code::Blocks *(or IDE of any kind) and work with a plaintext editor and the command-line until you know what you're doing. Start simple, read the gcc manpage.

-What on earth are you doing with the X11 headers?

-Try not to think of anything to do with the windows way of doing things-I've used both, and thinking about one or the other doesn't work. Just use both ways.

Now, try a simple tutorial: [http://www.network-theory.co.uk/docs/gccintro/gccintro_54.html](http://www.network-theory.co.uk/docs/gccintro/gccintro_54.html) and see how you get on.

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2012-10-29
> **thedardanius said:**
> So i looked in the standard directory (usr/local/include/) and i didnt found ANYTHING!

Um, you probably should check /usr/include ... this is the directory containing C header files.  Also within it are the C++ header files (e.g. /usr/include/c++/4.6).

---

### Post by thedardanius on 2012-10-29
Im not seeing anything

---

### Post by thedardanius on 2012-10-29
I'm using xlib to create windows with glx extensions so I could create an "opengl window".
Yes linux is pretty much very different than windows. Sry about this newbieness. Its becuase I am ;p.
 Can anyone give me a good tutorial about linux basics and diffrences between windows?
And what are -devs?
what are .so?

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2012-10-29
> **thedardanius said:**
> Im not seeing anything

Did you read this [post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12324661&postcount=3")?

You need to install the C/C++ development tools.  Not that it matters, but then the standard header files will be within /usr/include.

After installing the development tools, test out your system.  Using an editor, such as gedit or kate, create a file called Hello.cpp.  This file should contain the following:
```

#include <iostream>

int main()
{
    std::cout << "Hello World." << std::endl;
}

```
After you have saved the file, open a terminal and go to where the file is saved.  Enter the following command to compile/link the program:
```

g++ -Wall Hello.cpp -o hello

```
To run the program, enter the following command:
```

./hello

```

Please post back your results.


P.S.  -devs, as mentioned earlier, was referring to the extension typically given to development packages that one can install using apt-get, whether from the command line or using synaptics (the graphical interface for installing packages).

The .so extension refers to shared-object.  It is comparable to a DLL in Windoze.

---

### Post by thedardanius on 2012-10-29
one prob: where to get the development tools? Where do I get sth in linux like in window's sdk?

---

