---
title: "JSplitPane to add JPanels to a JFrame"
date: 2008-11-25
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by PaulM1985 on 2008-11-25
Hi

I am using Java to develop an easy to use CAD drawing package.  

I am going to use one panel as an options section which will have a selection of buttons so the user can choose what state they require, ie straight line, arc, delete, etc.  A second panel is going to act as the canvas.  

I have set up an options and a canvas class to hold the two JPanels and the objects that will be displayed on them, but I am having trouble putting them on to the JFrame that I have created.  Everything compiles ok and I can add one panel or the other so that individually they are visible within the frame.  It appears that the JSplitPane is the problem.

Here are what I hope the necessary parts of code that I am using:

```

//Initialise frame options and canvas
JFrame frame = new JFrame();
Options opt = new Options();
Canvas canv = new Canvas();

//Make frame visible
 frame.setDefaultCloseOperation( JFrame.EXIT_ON_CLOSE );
 frame.setSize(1000,600);
 frame.setVisible(true);

//Add the objects
 JSplitPane split = new JSplitPane(JSplitPane.HORIZONTAL_SPLIT, opt.getPanel(), canv.getPanel());
split.setDividerLocation(500);
frame.getContentPane().add(split);
```

Any help would be much appreciated

Paul

---

### Post by Reiger on 2008-11-25
I'm by no means an advanced Java programmer, but I think what you're trying to achieve is a layout thing (rather than a pane that can be dynamicallly split using a GUI knob) and for that I would use a Layout instead.

For such tasks I often find myself using a GridBagLayout in combination with a GridBagConstraints object.

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2008-11-25
Reiger is almost right - except for the fact that it's perfectly OK to use SplitPanes here. But you have to do two things:

Even if you just add one Split Pane to your windows, you still need to setup a layout as otherwise since your Panel doesn't contain anything, they will shrink to 0 pixels.

Also, Never mix AWT and Swing components! If you need to draw something, derice a JPanel an override its painting method. The Swing Tutorial will aid you here.

Here's an example I've just set up using the Netbeans GUI editor:

[PHP]
/*
 * Testing.java
 *
 * Created on November 25, 2008, 12:43 PM
 */



/**
 *
 * @author  me
 */
public class Testing extends javax.swing.JFrame {
    
    /** Creates new form Testing */
    public Testing() {
        initComponents();
    }
    
    /** This method is called from within the constructor to
     * initialize the form.
     * WARNING: Do NOT modify this code. The content of this method is
     * always regenerated by the Form Editor.
     */
    // <editor-fold defaultstate="collapsed" desc="Generated Code">
    private void initComponents() {
        java.awt.GridBagConstraints gridBagConstraints;

        jSplitPane1 = new javax.swing.JSplitPane();
        jPanel1 = new javax.swing.JPanel();
        jPanel2 = new javax.swing.JPanel();

        
        setDefaultCloseOperation(javax.swing.WindowConstants.EXIT_ON_CLOSE);
        setMinimumSize(new java.awt.Dimension(300, 300));
        getContentPane().setLayout(new java.awt.GridBagLayout());

        jSplitPane1.setDividerLocation(150);

        jPanel1.setMinimumSize(new java.awt.Dimension(50, 200));
        jSplitPane1.setLeftComponent(jPanel1);

        jPanel2.setMinimumSize(new java.awt.Dimension(200, 200));
        jSplitPane1.setRightComponent(jPanel2);

        gridBagConstraints = new java.awt.GridBagConstraints();
        gridBagConstraints.fill = java.awt.GridBagConstraints.BOTH;
        gridBagConstraints.weightx = 1.0;
        gridBagConstraints.weighty = 1.0;
        getContentPane().add(jSplitPane1, gridBagConstraints);

        java.awt.Dimension screenSize = java.awt.Toolkit.getDefaultToolkit().getScreenSize();
        setBounds((screenSize.width-410)/2, (screenSize.height-329)/2, 410, 329);
    }// </editor-fold>
    
    /**
     * @param args the command line arguments
     */
    public static void main(String args[]) {
        java.awt.EventQueue.invokeLater(new Runnable() {
            public void run() {
                new Testing().setVisible(true);
            }
        });
    }
    
    // Variables declaration - do not modify
    private javax.swing.JPanel jPanel1;
    private javax.swing.JPanel jPanel2;
    private javax.swing.JSplitPane jSplitPane1;
    // End of variables declaration
    
}
[/PHP]

---

### Post by PaulM1985 on 2008-11-25
Hi

Thanks for that, I am using GridBagConstraints in the other classes and didnt even think to use it here.

I am having a problem though with the constraints.  Here is the code I am now using:

```
 Container content = frame.getContentPane();
 GridBagConstraints constraints = new GridBagConstraints();
 constraints.gridx = 0;
 constraints.gridy = 0;
 content.add(opt.getPanel(), constraints);
```

And I am now getting this error:

```
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: cannot add to layout: constraint must be a string (or null)
```

Any ideas?

Paul

---

