---
title: "mysql transactions - foreign key failure"
date: 2009-09-27
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by aaronp on 2009-09-27
Hi all,

I have a couple of tables in MySQL. The id in table 1 (parent) is an auto_increment value and this is a foreign key in table 2 (child).

I'm writing a python program which starts a transaction. First it tries to insert a new record into the parent table.
It then uses:

```
cur.execute("select LAST_INSERT_ID() from parent")
```

to get the auto increment id.
This id is then used as a foreign key to insert a row into the child table before committing the transaction.

The second insert keeps throwing an error, saying the foreign key constraint has been broken.

My understanding of transactions (could be wrong) is that whilst they are not available to other connections until the transaction is committed, the statements inside the transaction should be able to use the results of the earlier statements as if they had already been written to the database.
Is this not the case?

If not, how would I handle the situation of using the auto increment id generated in the first insert to insert the second row? The kicker here is that i want to be able to roll back the first insert if the second one fails - that's why I am using transactions.

Any ideas?

thanks
Aaron

---

### Post by aaronp on 2009-09-27
OK, I've done some more traces in my code and found the reason for the foreign key errors is actually that my "select LAST_INSERT_ID()" is returning the total number of rows in the table + 1, not the id generated by the auto-increment.

e.g.
I insert a row which will atuo-increment to 227 but there are only 219 rows in the table so the LAST_INSERT_ID() is coming back as 220.
Any idea why and how to fix this?

thanks again
Aaron

---

### Post by kaivalagi on 2009-09-27
> **aaronp said:**
> OK, I've done some more traces in my code and found the reason for the foreign key errors is actually that my "select LAST_INSERT_ID()" is returning the total number of rows in the table + 1, not the id generated by the auto-increment.

e.g.
I insert a row which will atuo-increment to 227 but there are only 219 rows in the table so the LAST_INSERT_ID() is coming back as 220.
Any idea why and how to fix this?

thanks again
Aaron

Any joy using @@identity? It should be supported by MySQL...although if you have a very chatty environment you may get another connections identity coming back...in sql server I use "SELECT @id = SCOPE_IDENTITY()" but I am unsure whether this is available here - probably not as it will no doubt be some proprietory thing again...

---

### Post by aaronp on 2009-09-27
> **kaivalagi said:**
> Any joy using @@identity? It should be supported by MySQL...although if you have a very chatty environment you may get another connections identity coming back...in sql server I use "SELECT @id = SCOPE_IDENTITY()" but I am unsure whether this is available here - probably not as it will no doubt be some proprietory thing again...

Thanks for your reply  but I did some more digging and obtained joy using the function in the Python mySQLdb library called insert_id.

I call connection.insert_id() and assign it to a variable and what do you know? it returns to correct value!! So simple, but so frustrating when I couldn't figure it out!!

Thanks for your help anyway.

cheers
Aaron

---

