---
title: "How can I post a bounty for my problem?"
date: 2009-08-28
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by willz06jw on 2009-08-28
Hi all,

I am having a bug that is slow to be fixed.  Is there a way I can put 20 bucks on a bounty to fix it?

Thanks,
Will

---

### Post by pepperphd on 2009-08-28
A cheaper way would be to report the bug.

---

### Post by Mirge on 2009-08-28
Might consider posting the full details of what you're experiencing here as well, someone may have some insight.

---

### Post by willz06jw on 2009-08-28
I already posted the problem months ago on Ubuntu forums and on Lauchpad to [no avail ]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-71/+bug/382815").  If possible I would like the power of capitalism to push it forward for me.  Is there a way to post up a bounty on a bug?

Thanks again for the help,
Will

---

### Post by pepperphd on 2009-08-28
> **willz06jw said:**
> I already posted the problem months ago on Ubuntu forums and on Lauchpad to [no avail ]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-71/+bug/382815").  If possible I would like the power of capitalism to push it forward for me.  Is there a way to post up a bounty on a bug?

Thanks again for the help,
Will

Did your card work in 8.x?  I had what sounds like the same problem (my card is an Nvidia 8600) with 9.04, but it worked perfectly in 8.04.  If it did work in 8.x, or if you can test it, I suggest you use 8.x as it is likely to fix your problem.

---

### Post by Mirge on 2009-08-28
Ok, don't post a link then... :P

---

### Post by smakand on 2009-08-28
What does your /etc/X11/xorg.conf look like?

---

### Post by willz06jw on 2009-08-28
Did my "no avail" link crap up?  Oh well, here is the link: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-71/+bug/382815](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-71/+bug/382815)

I will post the xorg.conf file when I am able to ssh into the computer (AKA not at work).

Thanks again,
Will

---

### Post by smakand on 2009-08-28
> **willz06jw said:**
> I will post the xorg.conf file when I am able to ssh into the computer (AKA not at work).

Hey no problem. Also if you can take pictures that might be helpful too. I don't have a ton of xorg experience but I've delt with a similar problem on my nvidia card with ArchLinux.

---

### Post by willz06jw on 2009-08-30
Here is a copy of my xorg.conf file(note:This is for a command line only version of Ubuntu):

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
	Disable	"dri2"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option	"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"
	Option	"UseEdidFreqs"	"True"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection

---

### Post by willz06jw on 2009-09-11
You see this is normally how it goes.  I post information and the community has moved on to the next issue already.  This is not a bad thing; It's just how communities work.  They want to work on the next new thing, not linger on old issues that take a bit of time.

I am looking for a way to put a bounty on the issue so some guy (who needs my 20 bucks) would be extremely motivated to fix the problem (that I have had for almost a year) _right now_.

Is there any way possible to do this?

Thanks,
Will

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2009-09-11
This sounds like a DPI (dots per inch) issue.  Most displays use 96 by 96 but some cards put out much higher (like 300 by 300) and that becomes the default and your graphics go crazy.

Try searching for the appropriate DPI entries for xorg.conf.  You can experiment with them and see what works.

The other issue most people can't understand:  If you run 3D direct render mode, you need to drop resolution to stay within your video RAM.  Start with 640x480.  If that works go to 800x600.  If that works go to 1024x768.

The bottom line:  you can't run your native 2D resolution in 3D mode.  You can't.  10-year old video cards have limited video memory because fast memory was very expensive in those days.  Look at the empty sockets in those video cards.

Also, it is my understanding that the nvidia-glx-71 driver is a "binary blob".  The open source driver is xserver-xorg-video-nv.  It is what you should be using and it is what we have access to.  It is reverse-engineered as nVidia won't publish the necessary details to write a decent driver.

If my understanding is correct, then you should offer your bounty to nVidia.  I doubt $20 would go a long way to update a 10-year-old video card driver.

Please, someone correct me.  I have a TNT card (of that vintage) and I use the open drivers with it and it works OK.
I use it to drive a second display on a newer P4 desktop.

---

### Post by willz06jw on 2009-09-11
Oh I used that before to no avail.  Then I was told to install the nvidia one to fix my issue.  I didn't relize that it was still a proprietary driver.  I will use envy and uninstall it and reinstall the open source driver.

BTW:  I am pretty sure I'm not using 3d since I didn't install a desktop (I am using command line only Ubuntu).   If I use a desktop the problem disappears.

Thanks for the reply,
Will

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2009-09-11
Well, if you are only using a console/text mode, then you can use the "vesa" driver.  I think even the binary blobs recognize the standard vesa modes.

You have to realize that as the kernel moves forward to support new hardware, old hardware gets dropped like ISA slot support.  Xorg has to follow the kernel, so it drops old hardware as well.  It's possible that the older "nv" driver will work, but you would have to regress to an older version of ubuntu.

Or try a different distro such as slackware, fedora, opensuse, or arch.  

The problems that I was thinking of is trying to play 3D games with old, but decent graphics cards.  You can do it, but you have to fiddle some.

Envy has now been renamed "proprietary driver installer".  Anything installed with envy is a binary blob.  The ubuntu kernel team is working to remove all proprietary/binary-only code from the kernel.  To do this, a "shim" is used hook the binary blob to the open kernel.  It requires compiling and linking to work properly and to maintain the GPL requirements--you can't export symbols of proprietary code without tainting it and requiring that code to be open.  Envy was created as a unified method for installing these pesky modules.

Because of the small user base of linux 10 years ago, the modules to drive that old hardware are hard to find, or don't work 100%.  You have to try older distros such as Redhat or SUSE where the drivers for older hardware were polished up and actually work OK for what was popular at the time.
The box that has my TNT card is asleep right now.  It's running Dapper Drake.  I bet I will have problems if I install koala.

apt-cache search vesa
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-vesa

Modify your xorg.conf with "vesa"
reboot

---

### Post by willz06jw on 2010-02-07
This bug was fixed in the newest version of Ubuntu!  Thanks!

---

