---
title: "Forum/website"
date: 2007-11-29
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by sdmike on 2007-11-29
I look at these sites:

spikedhumor.com
youtube.com

and I see how they use php and msql to make these increadible looking sites where people can leave comments and interact with each other.

[COLOR="red"]What software would I need to so I could build somethng similar to those sites?[/COLOR]

Also I dread having to learn how to make things from scratch using php and msql. [COLOR="Red"]Does anyone have a any GOOD books that makes it easy for me how to learn how to use these languages?[/COLOR]

Future thanks!

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2007-11-29
There is not an easy way, you have to know what you are doing.

You only need a server and an editor.

You should start learning on the web, you should fully understand XHTML and CSS, before using PHP.

---

### Post by sdmike on 2007-11-29
I know somewhat what I'm doing. I'm a CS major and my friend was telling me porgamming in CSS in MS visual studio is way easy because it's visual now how code is visual in Dreamweaver.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2007-11-29
> **sdmike said:**
> I know somewhat what I'm doing. I'm a CS major and my friend was telling me porgamming in CSS in MS visual studio is way easy because it's visual now how code is visual in Dreamweaver.

You mean WYSIWYG? If you are going that route, you probably don't know CSS that well.

Also, tying yourself to a single applications (MS VS) and a single platform is not a good idea.

You should have a good understanding of CSS and XHTML, and be able to write valid code with it.

---

### Post by sdmike on 2007-11-29
So what is a good book to guide me in this. The only xhtml I use is generated by Dreamweaver lol. As far as CSS goes I use already made templates and just tweak them. I just need an all around good book for this or a good website that has step by step examples.

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2007-11-30
youtube is in Python, not PHP. Google might not buy it if it was in PHP :-)

being CS major does not make you experienced programmer, but is IS a good start to get there :-)

Python and Ruby are popular languages for web apps, each has frameworks to make web programming simpler: Ruby has Rails, Python has Django and Turbogears. They are MVC, you should know what it means :-)

Plenty of online books are available, see wiki in my sig for links.

w3schools is one of hundred websites with HTML/CSS guides. Google is your friend.

---

### Post by sdmike on 2007-12-01
Well I think being a computer science major helps because if you know two languages you can look at a new language and get an understanding how it works right away but back to the point.

I just really want to make a site where I can put up videos and people can comment on them. Is there anything else I would use with Python to get the ball rolling on this project?

---

### Post by ThinkBuntu on 2007-12-01
HTMLDog.com has some pretty good tutorials, although when I was learning a while back I used w3schools.com. To the best of my knowledge, Youtube is written mostly in Python. If you want to make web apps with PHP, I think Symfony or CakePHP would be good, but I have yet to use either alone. You may also want to check out Ruby and its framework, Rails, or Python and its frameworks, Django and Turbogears. If you need resources for any of this, use Google.

---

