---
title: "for the functional programmers, please critique my article"
date: 2012-08-07
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by mo.reina on 2012-08-07
Looking for criticisms and suggestions for this piece I wrote.

[mozartreina.com]("http://mozartreina.com/")

---

### Post by Tony Flury on 2012-08-07
> **mo.reina said:**
> Looking for criticisms and suggestions for this piece I wrote.

[mozartreina.com]("http://mozartreina.com/")

I am not an expert functional programmer, but I read it with interest (iitially) because it is a skill i would like to add to my repetoire.

I thought that the article would try to explain the concept of functional pipelines, instead your article deep dives into the details of a particular implementation of a game, where you don't actually explain the rules etc - so it becomes impossible to follow what you are actually trying to explain. Maybe try to explain the concept with a much simpler example ?

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2012-08-07
Knowing little of functional programing I can only make comments on style.  

The opening has too many references and qualifications, nor would most readers be interested in your search of the web, it's off the point and reduces the feeling of authority which people like when reading a guide.  I'd suggest something like "According to Barski....." then maybe a (1) which would lead an interested reader to a footnote where sources are credited.  

If you are not satisfied with the definition say why not, and why, later on once the basic concept has been explained and your reservations make sense to the reader. 

Breaking it down is a good idea.  Also add a short statement with an overview of what is to come giving structure.  So we shall be looking at A, B, and C.........Subheading A and on into it.  You need something like that too, in this case "Data" "pipelines", "handles".   Each of those terms could use an individual definition before they are used in combination.  

Whenever you can try to avoid brackets ( meaning in the text ;) ).  For example; " Basically it will take as an input a starting board (this is randomly generated by another function..." Could be 'It will take as an input a starting point which is randomly generated by another function; the starting positions, the player whose turn it is, and a list of all possible moves which are ..'
Another tool which can increase comprehensabilty, especially for sequential things, is layout so
"What is happening here?
     1 Handle human takes a tree .....
     2 displays the moves .....
     3 the player chooses ..."
and so on.
I don't mind long sentences if they are broken up with good punctuation, some do.  I also use full and semi colons though some don't. So bear in mind your target readership and suit to fit.
The wrap-up at the end is good as it stands.
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by mo.reina on 2012-08-07
Tony Flury, I updated it to include a smaller example under the Data and Pipelines heading.

Please let me know if it explains the concept in a clearer manner.

---

