---
title: "Php font supporting languages supported by facebook"
date: 2012-01-09
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by RobikShrestha on 2012-01-09
Facebook supports many languages. They are listed here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook_features](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook_features)

I am developing a facebook app in php which displays the status updates of facebook users in an image (using php gd).

I do not know how to gather support for all those languages. (i.e. I do not want SQUARE BOXES to appear in the image generated by my facebook app when the app does not recognize the characters). I want the native language characters in the image generated by the facebook app.

 Is there a font that supports all those languages? Or is there any other way to build that kind of support? I am stomped!! plz help.

---

### Post by ofnuts on 2012-01-09
> **RobikShrestha said:**
> Facebook supports many languages. They are listed here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook_features](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook_features)

I am developing a facebook app in php which displays the status updates of facebook users in an image (using php gd).

I do not know how to gather support for all those languages. (i.e. I do not want SQUARE BOXES to appear in the image generated by my facebook app when the app does not recognize the characters). I want the native language characters in the image generated by the facebook app.

 Is there a font that supports all those languages? Or is there any other way to build that kind of support? I am stomped!! plz help.There used to be some all-encompassing font (Arial-Unicode?). However, I have been told that allthough the CJK languages (Chinese/Japanese/Korean) share some ideograms, the design of the characters in the fonts normally used in each country/region(*) is quite different, and using a single font to support them produces what would look like the equivalent of a random mix of serif, sans-serif and monospace, or worse, Arial and YeOldeEnglishe. It is therefore much better to use the language/region-specific fonts.

(*) In politically-correct user interfaces (those used by all software houses who want to sell in continental China), Taiwan cannot appear as a country choice but only as a country/region choice.

---

### Post by RobikShrestha on 2012-01-09
So how does facebook do it? It supports about 70 different languages. If I use the same font as used by facebook, will my problem be solved?

---

### Post by mssever on 2012-01-09
The most important thing is to understand character sets and Unicode and to handle them correctly. That's most of the battle there. After that, most OSes will use a fallback font if the one that's requested doesn't have the needed glyph. This should be mostly transparent.

You can expect issues in a few scenarios:

[LIST=1]
[*]If the interface requests a glyph which isn't found in any font installed in the system. There's nothing you can do about that beyond asking the user to install another font. But it's no big deal in most cases, as people will normally have at least one font for any language they know.
[*]If you're dealing with Chinese characters, it matters whether the user is using traditional or simplified characters. This depends on their locale settings. Due to the way Unicode works, there's not a whole lot you can do about this.
[*]The most common source of problems is if you handle character sets incorrectly. This should be your focus.
[/LIST]
I don't think that Facebook does anything about issues 1 and 2, but if they're smart, they'll handle issue 3 well. So really, fonts aren't the most important issue for a programmer to solve.

---

### Post by RobikShrestha on 2012-01-09
@msserver:
I am generating the image from server (using php gd library). So fonts installed on the client's machine do not help me at all.

---

### Post by ofnuts on 2012-01-09
> **RobikShrestha said:**
> So how does facebook do it? It supports about 70 different languages. If I use the same font as used by facebook, will my problem be solved?I don't know, I keep at safe distance from it. But if they don't do graphics and just use text, they don't care, the user's browser ill use the user's fonts.

---

### Post by RobikShrestha on 2012-01-09
So is this the only solution?

1. Identify the language
2. Select an appropriate font inside the server
3. Use that font

I mean 70 different fonts? Any suggestions?

---

### Post by mssever on 2012-01-10
> **RobikShrestha said:**
> So is this the only solution?

1. Identify the language
2. Select an appropriate font inside the server
3. Use that font
I'm afraid so.

> I mean 70 different fonts? Any suggestions?Where'd you get the idea of 70 different fonts? Let me explain a few things.

First, it's impossible for any one font to cover all languages. At the minimum, there are plenty of issues with Chinese characters. These characters are used in a number of languages and even more countries. There is often variation between countries in the glyphs used. However, some of them share the same Unicode code point. So the font can't choose the correct one for all situations unless you know the language and the country. The usual solution here is to design separate fonts. There may be similar issues in other languages that I don't know about.

But you don't need 70 fonts. Do you know the difference between languages and scripts? If not, please read up on it.

Here's a basic outline of what you need. Note that most of this is dealing with scripts, not languages. This distinction is very important, so make sure you understand it.


[LIST]
[*]First, a huge number of languages are based on the Latin script. If you use a font with good coverage of the Latin character space (such as Gentium), you'll be good for most, if not all, of those languages. Gentium also covers Greek completely.
[*]Then, you need a font with complete Cyrillic coverage, which should handle most, if not all, of the languages using that script.
[*]Find a good font for Hebrew and another one for the Arabic script (making sure that they can cover all styles of writing, including when the writer uses vowels--which are normally omitted). For the Hebrew and Arabic scripts, you'll have to be able to handle right-to-left writing.
[*]You'll need to handle the various Indic scripts. I don't know much about them, so you'll have to do research to find out if you can use one font to cover India or if you'll need several.
[*]Southeast Asia can be difficult. Thai fonts are readily available, but fonts for languages such as Khmer aren't so widespread. At any rate, I don't think that Facebook supports Khmer. You might need one font per language in this part of the world, or you might be able to use one font to cover them all. I don't know.
[*]For CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) support, you really need to determine the language and choose an appropriate font. Even then, it's more complicated, because Mainland China uses different characters then do Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, etc. And those regions likely differ from each other, as well. Also, the Chinese characters used in Korea and Japan differ from the ones used elsewhere, so Korean and Japanese each need their own fonts.
[/LIST]

Despite this long list, there's another bit of reality to consider: Unless you plan to translate your app into many of the languages supported by Facebook, you can safely ignore many of them. For example, few Koreans will use an app that isn't available in Korean, while many Western Europeans may well use an English-only app. So unless you plan to make the app available in Korean, having a Korean font isn't so important. And there are probably many countries in the same category as Korea.

**EDIT:** There are a few other scripts that I forgot to address: Armenian, Georgian, and Amharic (for Ethiopia) are the ones that come to mind. To be sure you've covered everything, have a look through the character map. You'll see the various scripts there, and you can also test fonts for coverage there. Bear in mind that few if any fonts will cover the entirity of the Chinese characters, which is fine since there are many really rare characters that you don't need to worry about.

**EDIT 2:** In addition to fonts, you need to consider font size. Some scripts (such as the CJK scripts) require a larger font size in order to be legible. This probably applies to several other scripts, as well.

---

### Post by RobikShrestha on 2012-01-10
Hmm now I am starting to get things. So it is the script not the language.

My app is not anything commercial, I am building it for fun. May be for a beginner like me, the best thing to do would be English-only app. Thanks for the help. I will have a look at the character map.

Thanks again.

---

