---
title: "baby-steps beginner programming"
date: 2008-03-21
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by niko123 on 2008-03-21
hello everyone....

i have recently just got involved with programming...and i wanted to know if anyone knows...a good and a easy program..or...i dunoo something  that i can use....where i can learn step-by-step...i was looking for something where i can write a script....or something...for example...write that a circle would be green...then press F5 or which ever and it can come up on another screen wheather or not i did it wrong or right..

hmm i dont know if i making any sence....sorry if im not...

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2008-03-21
Python.

You'll have to do it right, though, or it won't work, sorry ;)

---

### Post by niko123 on 2008-03-21
oh... :(
i was looking at Python.....but it looked outta my league for someone.....do you know anything that can be easier..?

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2008-03-21
Well, programming languages are programming languages, there is a certain complexity involved... but one should not be discouraged easily, it's a hard road but the more you learn, the easier it is to learn more.. :)

Hmm. How about HTML... doing web pages? It's not really a programming language but sort of gives you the feel of what it's like... there are also some kind of "game makers".. hmmh.. pmasiar should peek into this thread to make a suggestion about those.

---

### Post by rolf944 on 2008-03-21
I think frontpage will be the best for a beginner.
just try it !

---

### Post by niko123 on 2008-03-21
yea you are right...there is...and always will be a certian complexity involved in programming...but i have done HTML...but simple simple stuff...no animations or anything of the sort...just a plain script....(color, font, font size, pictures banner)...

---

### Post by CptPicard on 2008-03-21
You might want to include some Javascript there perhaps, then.

You do have to dare take the plunge sometime you know -- programming is programming... :)

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2008-03-21
You may want to try Logo ... but Python is very simple and easy to learn, if you can't, you might be not ready yet. :-) Another option is Game Maker (Win only).

---

### Post by fktt on 2008-03-21
> **pmasiar said:**
> You may want to try Logo hmm.. logo is a language then or..? sounds possibly interesting, though I'm thinking of taking python up again, actually I'm pretty sure i will. :)
edit: heh nvm, info was easier to be found than i thought: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logo_(programming_language)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logo_(programming_language))

---

### Post by stroyan on 2008-03-21
If you want to try logo, install the kturtle package.
That will let you start with baby turtle steps. :wink:

---

### Post by PeterP24 on 2008-03-21
I think you should try with matlab or scilab/octave. This programs have a high level language syntax - simple enough -> you won't be bothered with minor details like alocating space for your variables, declaring their type, pointers or other stuff, but you will learn the basics, like the control flow, the work with arrays and matrix, with a debugger, and maybe some easy algorithms. You can use the predefined functions like plot, to view the results generated by your scripts, or others to build complex GUI. Also, the help files and some examples are incorporated in the software. Needless to say, the scripts written with these programs aren't compiled, but interpreted (so you just press F5 in Matlab and you obtain figures - your circle or some other results). After a while, you can migrate to something more serious like c/c++. 

Best regards,

Peter

---

### Post by NiklasV on 2008-03-21
While Matlab/Octave/Scilab is great for some purposes, I wouldn't recommend it as a first programming language unless you have some experience with matrices, vectors, etc.

To OP: Python is really simple to learn, it doesn't even require that you understand what a function is, the type of a variable is inferred from what you assign to it (dynamic typing), and memory management is completely automatic. You really can't get much simpler than Python, and yet it's a language that allows you to use more advanced concepts like object oriented programming once you feel ready.

---

### Post by MavisPuford on 2008-03-21
Well, you could [[COLOR="Blue"]Try Ruby[/COLOR]]("http://tryruby.hobix.com/")! That website allows you to go through an interactive tutorial. It is for complete beginners too.  Give it a shot.

You can also give [[COLOR="Blue"]Shoes[/COLOR]]("http://code.whytheluckystiff.net/shoes/") a shot. Description: > Shoes is a very informal graphics and windowing toolkit. It's for making regular old apps that run on Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. It's a blend of my favorite things from the Web, some Ruby style, and a sprinkling of cross-platform widgets.

Follow the links on the site to get to [[COLOR="Blue"]http://www.the-shoebox.org/[/COLOR]]("http://www.the-shoebox.org/"), which has projects that people have done with Shoes.

Both are fun to use and have great communities.

---

### Post by pmasiar on 2008-03-21
I would be interested to know if OP read FAQ sticky, part about first language to learn, and her opinion about possibilities. Seems to me like we are wasting time here.

Programming is not easy - you have to think and be detail oriented and capable of abstract thinking. If you cannot ATM, maybe programming is not for you yet. Harsh? Sure. But nobody promised life will be simple and easy. You have to work at it. :-)

---

### Post by gjj391 on 2008-03-22
Coming from someone who is just learning to program, I would say python or ruby. i choose python over ruby :)

you probably got scared though while flipping through some book at the store or staring at some script online, But that will happen with any language whether its html or C. 

Gotta take baby steps, just take it line by line.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-03-22
> **gjj391 said:**
> 
Gotta take baby steps, just take it line by line.

As long as line zero starts with a shebang.

---

