---
title: "[SOLVED] Querying MySQL data earlier than 1 week  w/ PHP"
date: 2008-05-15
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by mikemosher on 2008-05-15
Hey all, 

I'm trying to pull data from a MySQL database that is earlier than a given date, say a week.   This could either be in the MySQL query, or by using PHP after the query; I'm not sure how to do either.  

Here's an example of what I'm talking about:

MySQL: 

"SELECT * FROM table WHERE DATE " -- (earlier than 1 week ago, or 1 day, or whatever)

PHP:

$query = "SELECT * FROM table";
$result = mysql_query($query);
$numrows = mysql_num_rows($result);

for ($i=0; $i < $numrows ; $i++) {
     $row = mysql_fetch_assoc($result);
     
     if ($row['DATETIME'] <<EARLIER THAN 1 WEEK AGO>>) {
         //This is where I want to be
     }
}


DATETIME field in DB is in this format:
YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS 


Any ideas?


Thanks in advance...

MM

---

### Post by peterf1972 on 2008-05-15
try this:

SELECT * FROM table WHERE DATE <= '".date("Y-m-d",mktime(0,0,0,date("n"),date("j")-7,date("Y")))."'

explanation:

php function inserts date as YYYY-MM-DD.
date to be inserted is generated by mktime:
date("n") -> current month (no leading zeros)
date("j")-7 -> durrent day - 7 days (7 days for one week. two weeks would be 14 days,etc)
date("Y") -> current Year

in case date("j")-7 goes into last month or even year: mktime will automatically update the output

if you want a month before 'today', remove the '-7' from date("j") and add a '-1' to date("n") 

more info to the php function 'mktime': [http://us2.php.net/mktime](http://us2.php.net/mktime)
more info to the php function 'date': [http://us3.php.net/date](http://us3.php.net/date)

---

### Post by mikemosher on 2008-05-15
peterf1972, 

Hey, thanks for the reply. That helps alot.  

One last question....

How would I do the same for the time as well.  The code you sent will let me filter by the date, but want if I wanted to see data from 1 hour ago, or 12 hours?

I noticed that the 3 parameters for the time are set to 0, but I can't find a function for getting the hour or minute;  time() is the closest I can find, but obviously doesn't do the job.  

Again, thanks for the post.

MM

---

### Post by Verminox on 2008-05-16
The first three parameters of mktime() are for hour, minute, second, resepectively. See the manual for [date()]("http://us3.php.net/date") to represent those particulars in HH, MM and SS format.

Edit: I looked it up for you. They are H, i, and s respectively. So the query for 1 hour ago would now be:
```
SELECT * FROM table WHERE DATE <= '".date( "Y-m-d H:i:s", mktime( date("H")-1, date("i"), date("s"), date("n"), date("j"), date("Y") ) )."'
```

---

### Post by mikemosher on 2008-05-16
That was it.  

Thanks alot for the help.

MM

---

