---
title: ".NET and Visual Studio"
date: 2008-05-27
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2008-05-27
Hey All,

Doing some C++ and C# for school this summer and in the fall. Both Professors are using Visual Studio, and I can get XP Pro and Visual Studio for free through school.  Was going to use boot camp to dual boot XP Pro and OS X on the MacBook (seems like the most convenient setup). My question is this...

...What are everybody's thoughts on Visual Studio? I have a choice of 2003, 2005, or 2008. I'm leaning towards 03 or 05 after seeing all the problems office 08 has had.

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-05-27
> **DGortze380 said:**
> Hey All,

Doing some C++ and C# for school this summer and in the fall. Both Professors are using Visual Studio, and I can get XP Pro and Visual Studio for free through school.  Was going to use boot camp to dual boot XP Pro and OS X on the MacBook (seems like the most convenient setup). My question is this...

...What are everybody's thoughts on Visual Studio? I have a choice of 2003, 2005, or 2008. I'm leaning towards 03 or 05 after seeing all the problems office 08 has had.

Get the most recent tool I would recommend.

What are our thoughts on VS? Lau, front and centre...

---

### Post by skeeterbug on 2008-05-27
Grab 08.

---

### Post by marks_linux on 2008-05-28
Get 2008. If you can install XP as a virtual PC (VirtualBox) and run from there. SO long as you have enough RAM it will be sweet as for the size of project you are likely to do

---

### Post by Lau_of_DK on 2008-05-28
> **DGortze380 said:**
> Hey All,

Doing some C++ and C# for school this summer and in the fall. Both Professors are using Visual Studio, and I can get XP Pro and Visual Studio for free through school.  Was going to use boot camp to dual boot XP Pro and OS X on the MacBook (seems like the most convenient setup). My question is this...

...What are everybody's thoughts on Visual Studio? I have a choice of 2003, 2005, or 2008. I'm leaning towards 03 or 05 after seeing all the problems office 08 has had.

It depends a little bit on which projects you'll be doing, for 99% of all Windows programming I'd prefer Vs2005, but in regards to Linq and Collaboration (projects where you work together with other programmers on the same source) there's supposed to be some advantages to v2008. No matter which version you choose, the functions and libraries available reflect only on the version of the .Net Framework installed, not the version of Vs, so based on personal experience Vs2005 comes with big recommendations.

Regarding dual-boot it depends only on your own feeling of a normal boot into Windows, compared with running it in a Virtual Box - The functionality is supposed to be the same right? I'd probably prefer to have it in a box, but I remember one time writing some network transfer routines that kept giving me alot of packet loss, and I spent a long time trying to find the source of the error, which in the end turned out to be a built-in-bug in Virtual PC, where it injects trash data into your (wireless) networks streams, in order to evade some legal issue.

Those were my thoughts, good luck with it :)
/Lau

---

### Post by irrdev on 2008-05-28
VS 2008 Orca. I really appreciate how Orca allows for .NET projects to target 3 different releases: .NET 2.0, 3.0 and 3.5. This, IMO, was a major missing feature from VS 2005. It's is really nice to be able to upgrade your app on a whim.

---

### Post by achelis on 2008-05-28
I'd say VS 2008 based on the short experience I had with 2005 & 2008.

But ultimately I'd say why use what your professors are using? (at least if they using 2008 I don't think you have much of a choice as they'll likely be using features unavailable in previous versions..)

---

### Post by kragen on 2008-05-28
Definitely don't use 2003 - you really want to be using .Net 2.0 or above, and VS 2003 is .Net 1.1 only. There have also been a considerable number of UI tweaks for VS 2005, and so VS 2005 and 2008 are considerably easier to use.

When choosing between 2005 and 2008 I'd probably also go with 2008. It might have issues that I'm not aware of, but I've been using it and 2005 for a few months now with no issues, and it has a couple of nice new features, the ones that I particularly like:

 - You can target .Net 2.0, .Net 3.0 or .Net 3.5 with VS2008
 - The GUI for windows presentation foundation in VS2005 is broken and useless, so if you want to do any WPF work you definitely want 2008. (not really so much a feature I suppose :P)

There is a more comprehensive list here:
[http://msdotnetsupport.blogspot.com/2007/11/22-new-features-of-visual-studio-2008.html](http://msdotnetsupport.blogspot.com/2007/11/22-new-features-of-visual-studio-2008.html)

Also, +1 for virtualbox. Visual studio works very comfortably on virtual machines, so if dual booting is ever causing you headaches there is another alternative.

---

### Post by Majorix on 2008-05-28
VS2008 is slowly replacing VS2005 nowadays. I would go with 08 as not to fall behind. And you will see that there is nothing important missing from the previous releases.

Also, I wouldn't use a VM for booting an XP+VS2008. VS2008 uses upto 1gig of ram, xp uses upto 300mb's and Ubuntu will be using at least 200mb's; and if you add them all up you will see that it's about 1.5gigs. Will certainly slow your computer down or it might even freeze it up so you lose your work.

---

### Post by kragen on 2008-05-28
> **Majorix said:**
> Also, I wouldn't use a VM for booting an XP+VS2008. VS2008 uses upto 1gig of ram, xp uses upto 300mb's and Ubuntu will be using at least 200mb's; and if you add them all up you will see that it's about 1.5gigs. Will certainly slow your computer down or it might even freeze it up so you lose your work.

Hmm, I suppose it depends on what you see as being a large amount of ram, but I have 3gb on my home machine and run it on a VM with 1gb and its completely fine. You wouldn't know unless someone actually said you were on a VM - you wouldn't even think the computer was that slow! Its certainly never come close to freezing.

---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2008-05-28
Thanks for the info... I'm still thinking about which version to use. All the work will be independent as its just an intro class, my bigger projects are in C++ and will all be done in OS X. I suppose as long as no one has any major issues with 08 I'll probably do that. Might as well use the latest version, it'll be the standard soon enough. It's a two semester course, so I'll be working with it in class until next summer minimum. 

As far as Virtual Machine vs Dual Boot... It'll be on a 1st gen MacBook, so I'm limited to 2GB of RAM. 512 min for OS X Tiger, another 512 min for XP, only leaves me 1 GB and I'm maxed out, so I think my best option is a dual boot... I'll be replacing the crap 60GB hard drive for a 200GB or 250GB which will be more than enough space for what I need.

---

