---
title: ".dll question about class inheritance"
date: 2008-08-22
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by SNYP40A1 on 2008-08-22
I am programming in MS Visual Studio 2003 on a tester platform (I am writing code that instructs the tester how to test).  I make these classes which describe a test.  I have one test class which is loaded onto the tester.  When the test is loaded onto the tester, a .dll file is copied from one location on the hard drive and placed in a cache folder -- another location on the hard drive where all relevant .dlls used by the test program are placed (not sure why this has to happen, I think it is a safeguard in case network access is lost during testing).  Anyway, I have one test class (call it class A) which is compiled into a .dll file which extends another class stored in a .lib file.  I can use this test class no problem.  When I extend class A to make another class B which is also compiled to a .dll, I run into problems.  B will load and execute on the tester without any problems.  But when I try to unload the test program, I get a message telling me that B.dll cannot be deleted (where B.dll is the class name with ".dll" appended to it).  I thought this might be a problem with the destructors, so I declared them virtual at the Base class level (the base class is in the .lib file) and then in ~B(), I call A::~A(), like this:

class B : A()
{
    ~B()
     {
        A::~A();
      }
}

So the problem is that somehow B.dll is not getting released, meaning that it cannot be deleted.  Anyone have any ideas on how to fix this?  I am wondering if there is a problem extending a class compiled to a .dll based on another class stored in another .dll.

Also, if anyone can recommend a place more dedicated to Visual Studio / .dll building, I would like to know.  this is the best programming forum that I know of.

---

### Post by dribeas on 2008-08-22
Your problem does not have anything to do with C++, costructors, destructors or inheritance, but with the way dlls and files are handled in windows.

You can try manually loading libraries and then unloading them, but that will require code on the test suite and might not be appropiate (never change an application just for testing, you must test the same scenario that the user will get).

Then again, even if it is not a solution it might help you knowing that in windows if you cannot delete a file you can mark it for future deletion (on next operating system startup - I don't really remember how). This will keep wasting space for some time, but could be a work-around.

You can check MSDN web for docs and snippets and probably codeguru -don't trust everything you read there, some are good, some aren't.

   David

---

