---
title: "Getting Started"
date: 2006-09-21
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by YourFriendlyGopher on 2006-09-21
Hi all, since converting to linux about 8 months ago i've gotten to the point where I really want to start modifying things. I want to create actual useful apps, that are interactive with the OS. I would LOVE to get involved with the coding community somehow, but at the moment I just don't have the skills. So, I was wondering, where would be a good place to start? I know a bit of java, C and C++ and am very keen to learn any others. Any suggestions/tips would be appreciated, thanks. :)

---

### Post by Tomosaur on 2006-09-21
The OS community suffers from a horrible lack of documentation - so busting out some writing skills is always appreciated.

As for boosting up your coding skills - read, read, read. Borrow or buy a few books, and work on your own little projects to apply what you're reading about to a 'real scenario'. I don't personally think the 'hello world' method of learning code is any good. The basics of many languages have only minor, structural differences, and so long as you know the basic syntax/lexis of two or three languages, going straight into somewhat more advanced stuff is much more rewarding.

Also, when you become stuck on something, take a break. Draw a diagram that makes sense to you to symbolise what you're trying to do, label it etc, then convert that into code.

---

### Post by X.Cyclop on 2006-09-21
C and C++ or Python. Choose what you want.

There is a thread with TOO MANY tutorials about programming, just look for it. ;)

---

### Post by YourFriendlyGopher on 2006-09-22
Thanks for the replies, I know there's a whole bunch of tutorials out there, it's just a bit overwhelming trying to decide between them. I already know most of the basics since I'm doing a computer science degree at the moment, but I want to branch out and make some really useful linux apps, maybe with a nice simple GUI to make it more usable. I've used Glade but it seems too automated, and I don't understand the code generated at all. Should I blindely use an app like this or should I just learn the API? Sorry if I seem like a naive noobie, but I'm tired of making stand-alone console apps that don't really do anything useful.

---

### Post by X.Cyclop on 2006-09-22
I'd choose C (and then C++), but YOU decide.

You can learn the API and use gedit.:) 

[http://developer.gnome.org/doc/](http://developer.gnome.org/doc/) ;)

---

### Post by Omnios on 2006-09-22
Check out the online Programming Book Library here in thi forum. It is just starting but has some very good links.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=255970](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=255970)

---

### Post by Wolki on 2006-09-22
> **YourFriendlyGopher said:**
> I've used Glade but it seems too automated, and I don't understand the code generated at all. Should I blindely use an app like this or should I just learn the API?

Don't use Glade's code autogeneration feature, Glade's native file format can be directly read by something called libglade and thus used for creating interfaces. Autogenerated code will be messy and hard to change later, while with libglade you can keep your real code mean and have easy ways to change the gui.

I would recommend taking a look at the api to see how gtk works (for example in the pygtk tutorial, if python's your thing). It will come in handy, no matter what. I'd still use glade - hand-coding complex interfaces isn't that fun, and there's enough other things to code. :)

---

