---
title: ".cc vs .ccp what is the difference??"
date: 2008-10-27
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Flynn555 on 2008-10-27
i have noticed on my school projects that the C++ implementation files that i save in MS Visual Studio are .ccp files where they are .cc files in Linux/Unix.  i was wondering what is the difference? i have also noticed that .cc files can be opened under visual studio but .ccp files cannot be opened in Linux/Unix(or at least not to my knowledge) are .ccp files only compatible with windows? whats the dillio?

thx flynn

---

### Post by cl333r on 2008-10-27
It's generally a matter of taste, if you google for ".cc vs .cpp" you'll find lots of additional info.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-10-27
You probably mean **.cpp** instead of .ccp.

.cpp and .cc are just different extensions for C++ source code files, there is no real difference. In some environments, .cpp is used and in other environments .cc is used, but it really makes no difference.

C++ source files are just plain text files, which you can edit with any text editor. Why do you think that you cannot open .cpp files on Linux?

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-10-27
```
file.cc
       file.cp
       file.cxx
       file.cpp
       file.CPP
       file.c++
       file.C
           C++ source code which must be preprocessed.  Note that in .cxx, the last two letters
           must both be literally x.  Likewise, .C refers to a literal capital C.

```

man gcc

---

### Post by Flynn555 on 2008-10-27
lol...
for some reason i thought cpp was native to windows *feels stupid*
thats for clearing that up though.

---

### Post by Bichromat on 2008-10-27
And there's .CCCP but it was only used in Russia :D

---

### Post by NovaAesa on 2008-10-28
> **Bichromat said:**
> And there's .CCCP but it was only used in Russia :D
*giggles*


But yeah, at my university, we used .cpp for implementation and .h for headers.

---

