---
title: "Creating a webcrawler"
date: 2009-01-14
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by alxlabs on 2009-01-14
I need to create a crawler which will go thru given URL searching for given regular expression which could be in one of the frames or generated by JavaScript/VBScript etc (but not flash or any activex). What would the best approach?

So far I'm trying to explore following options:

1. Embedding GtkMozEmbed into the Gtk c++ app.
2. Using Mozilla's XULRunner. 
3. Same with WebKit.

I would appreciate if somebody can point towards the right direction...

---

### Post by myrtle1908 on 2009-01-14
I notice you have mentioned GtkMozEmbed and XULRunner.  Do you really need all the features these libraries provide?  What do you want to do with pages you have crawled?  Follow links, save images, store document text?

A simple crawler that starts at a given URL, stores all links and interesting bits of text and then follows another link and repeats, would IMHO be easiest written in a scripting language like Perl (with the assistance of the LWP and DOM packages).  Java or Python are also good candidates.

You will find parsing HTML a pain in the *** so I suggest employing the services of the excellent HTML Tidy libraries ([http://tidy.sourceforge.net/](http://tidy.sourceforge.net/)).  I have used the Java version with great success to turn rubbish HTML into XML which is parsable by the W3C DOM packages.

---

### Post by alxlabs on 2009-01-14
Well..i'm looking for specific pattern in the rendered text which may be generated by JScript.

Assume that I'm looking for string "[color=red]Visit W3Schools! now[/color]" on the given site which may be generated with following html file 

```

index.html

<html>
<body>
<script type="text/javascript">
   var test1="Visit%20W3Schools%21";
   test1=unescape(test1);
   document.write(test1 + " now<br />");
</script>
</body>
</hmtl>

```

As you can see - I cannot take plain html 'cause somebody has to process script inside it first...

---

### Post by alxlabs on 2009-01-14
[http://www.alxlabs.com/test.html](http://www.alxlabs.com/test.html) - this is an example. Click on it - you'll see the pattern I look for. Check the source - you won't be able to find the content rendered on the screen unless you process script..

---

### Post by myrtle1908 on 2009-01-15
I see.  So you need to parse the DOM post-render. I guess you would then need to use something like GtkMozEmbed (as you have outlined).  I have never used it and only assume you can retrieve the DOM from the loaded document.

---

### Post by Cracauer on 2009-01-15
That's pretty heavy-handed stuff.

I just used a manual expansion (from perl code) of particular Javascript fragments that I knew constructed links I cared about.

---

