---
title: "c++"
date: 2013-01-29
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by wingnut2626 on 2013-01-29
I know this probably isnt the forum for this, but i need some c++ help.  I have been working on this "tic tac toe" program for a few days, and i cannot get it to run.  I am unsure of what to do.  Some guidance would be helpful. 

```
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

void playgame();
void taketurn (int x);
int checkwin ();

int z;
int player1;
int player2;
int slot_filled;

int a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i;

enum slotfill 
{
    X , O, U
};

int main()
{
    cout << "  ------------------\n ";
    cout << " Welcome to tic tac toe\n";
    cout << " -------------------\n";
    
    cout << " Menu selection.\n1. Play\n 2. Exit\n Your choice\n?";
    cin >> z ;

    switch (z)
    {
        case 1:
        playgame();
        break;
        
        case 2: 
        return 0;
        
        default : 
        return 0;
    }
    
        

}    
    
void playgame()
{
    do{
        
    taketurn(player1);
    checkwin();
    taketurn(player2);
    checkwin();
} while (checkwin != 1);
}

void taketurn (int x)
{
    cout << "which slot would you like to fill?" << endl;
    cin >> slot_filled;
    
    switch (x)
    {
        case 0: 
        slot_filled = 0;
        break;
        
        case 1:
        slot_filled = 1;
        break;
        
    }
    
}

int checkwin ()
{
if ( a == 0 && b == 0 && c == 0 || d == 0 && e == 0 && f == 0 || g == 0 && h == 0 && i == 0)
{
    cout << " Player 1 wins!!!! ";
    return 1;
}

if ( a == 0 && d== 0 && g == 0 || b == 0 && e == 0 && h == 0 || c == 0 && f == 0 && i == 0)
{
    cout << " Player 1 wins!!!! ";
    return 1;
}

if ( a == 0 && e == 0 && i == 0 || c == 0 && e == 0 && g == 0)
{
    cout << " Player 1 wins!!!";
    return 1;
}
// break for reading between player1 and player 2

if ( a == 1 && b == 1 && c == 1 || d == 1 && e == 1 && f == 1 || g == 1 && h == 1 && i == 1)
{
    cout << " Player 2 wins!!!! ";
    return 1;
}

if ( a == 1 && d== 1 && g == 1 || b == 1 && e == 1 && h == 1 || c == 1 && f == 1 && i == 1)
{
    cout << " Player 2 wins!!!! ";
    return 1;
}

if ( a == 1 && e == 1 && i == 1 || c == 1 && e == 1 && g == 1)
{
    cout << " Player 2 wins!!!";
    return 1;
}
}
```

---

### Post by doyleman on 2013-01-29
line 55 while (checkwin != 1);
checkwin isn't a variable, so you're simply missing the () after the name! :)

---

### Post by wingnut2626 on 2013-01-29
ok im a bit dense.  shouldnt checkwin return "1" when someone wins?

---

### Post by doyleman on 2013-01-29
when you type checkwin it looks for a variable named checkwin. when you type checkwin() it looks for a function named checkwin(). you have checkwin(); so you need to type checkwin(); which will return 1.

it's a common mistake i make myself to forget to add the () at the end. basically, replace it with:
while (checkwin() != 1)

and it'll work.

---

### Post by wingnut2626 on 2013-01-29
Thanks

---

### Post by wingnut2626 on 2013-01-29
Ok, so ive modded my code to read this:

```
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

void playgame();
void taketurn (int x);
int checkwin ();

int z;
int player1 = 1;
int player2 = 2;
int slot_filled;

int a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i;

enum slotfill 
{
    X , O, U
};

int main()
{
    cout << "  ------------------\n ";
    cout << " Welcome to tic tac toe\n";
    cout << " -------------------\n";
    
    cout << " Menu selection.\n1. Play\n 2. Exit\n Your choice\n?";
    cin >> z ;

    switch (z)
    {
        case 1:
        playgame();
        break;
        
        case 2: 
        return 0;
        
        default : 
        return 0;
    }
    
        

}    
    
void playgame()
{
    do{
        
    taketurn(player1);
    checkwin();
    taketurn(player2);
    checkwin();
} while (checkwin() != 1);
}

void taketurn (int x)
{
    cout << "which slot would you like to fill?" << endl;
    cin >> slot_filled;
    
    switch (x)
    {
        case 1: 
        slot_filled = 1;
        break;
        
        case 2:
        slot_filled = 2;
        break;
        
    }
    
}

int checkwin ()
{
if ( a == 1 && b == 1 && c == 1 || d == 1 && e == 1 && f == 1 || g == 1 && h == 1 && i == 1)
{
    cout << " Player 1 wins!!!! ";
    return 1;
}

if ( a == 1 && d== 1 && g == 1 || b == 1 && e == 1 && h == 1 || c == 1 && f == 1 && i == 1)
{
    cout << " Player 1 wins!!!! ";
    return 1;
}

if ( a == 1 && e == 1 && i == 1 || c == 1 && e == 1 && g == 1)
{
    cout << " Player 1 wins!!!";
    return 1;
}
// break for reading between player1 and player 2

if ( a == 2 && b == 2 && c == 2 || d == 2 && e == 2 && f == 2 || g == 2 && h == 2 && i == 2)
{
    cout << " Player 2 wins!!!! ";
    return 1;
}

if ( a == 2 && d== 2 && g == 2 || b == 2 && e == 2 && h == 2 || c == 2 && f == 2 && i == 2)
{
    cout << " Player 2 wins!!!! ";
    return 1;
}

if ( a == 2 && e == 2 && i == 2 || c == 2 && e == 2 && g == 2)
{
    cout << " Player 2 wins!!!";
    return 1;
}
}
```

and all im getting is the initial question " Which slot would you like to fill?

When i input a slot, the question goes on as an endless loop.  What have i done wrong?

---

### Post by doyleman on 2013-01-29
I don't get an endless loop; I get a Player 1 winsWhat slot would you like to fill? prompt

Mostly because: int a~i are not inited; but on my system started off at 0. this means the board already has player 1 as the winner. I suggest either initializing your a~i variables as some value such as... -1. or 3. or 9. a value that means clear. The way I'd go is probably make 1 = player 1, and 2 = player 2, rather than 0 = player 1, 1 = player 2.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2013-01-29
Moved to Programming Talk.

---

### Post by r-senior on 2013-01-29
OK, some suggestions for getting out of the mire ...

a. Run indent on your program so that you can see the structure. Or indent it consistently by hand.

b. Look at the taketurn() function. It doesn't really do anything. I think you intend it to fill one of the variables a .. i with a player token, but it doesn't. It just overwrites slot_filled with 1 and 2 alternately. This is the endless loop, after pressing a key for a slot to fill.

c. Try adding some debug output in taketurn() and playgame().

d. Consider a more structured way of modelling the board so that you can check rows and columns in loops rather than just brute forcing everything through if statements, e.g. have a board which is a 3x3 array of char -- space means no token, then use X and O for player tokens.

```
// Check for winning line on each row
for (int row = 0; row < 3; row++) {
    if (board[row][0] == board[row][1] && ... etc, etc) {
    }
}

```

e. Make use of true/false for clarity when dealing with booleans. Use clearer values for the players, rather then declaring player1 = 1 and then testing for something == 1.

f. Consider having some test code that populates the board so that you can test your functions that check for winning lines.

g. Start with an AI that just picks a random square -- but you need to know it's an empty square and when the board is full.

h. Draw a visual representation of the board at each move so that you can see what is going on.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-01-29
I was a professional C/C++ developer for over a decade on systems that could not fail - EVER. We had to handle any software issue that could possibly happen - even from a flipped bit due to cosmic ray interference.

This is C code run thru a C++ compiler. It is not C++ code. I did that myself when I was starting out and didn't understand OO.  Sure, a C++ compiler is required to compile it, but without classes ... er ... nope, not C++.

A few tips that will save you hundreds of hours looking for errors that have nothing to do with why the program doesn't behave the way you like:

[LIST=1]
[*]Initialize all variables to known values - all of them. PERIOD.  int z=0;
[*]Avoid the use of global variables. A variable's scope should be no more than what is required.
[*]Use const always for variables that should never change - ALWAYS.
[*]Use static for any functions that do not need to access class instance variables.
[*]Use variable names that mean something.  Longer is better than shorter unless there is an extremely good reason.  In 20 yrs of programming, I've only used short variables in production code once and it was for complex Boolean logic that was manually reduced through a Karnaugh map [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karnaugh_map](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karnaugh_map).
[*]On comparisons, avoid using numbers, unless it is absolutely clear what the number means.  Use True/False when that is the real intent, not 0 and non-zero.
[*]On comparisons, always place the static/const part on the left hand side. This will catch common errors at compile time. Accidental assignment, for example.
[*]Do not trust operator precedence.  Use parentheses if there is any doubt by you OR could be any doubt by someone else.
[*]Use whitespace and indentation to make your code more readable.  Find a style that you and your team like, setup indent++ to force that style and stick to it.
[*]Always use {} for 1 statement ifs.  This common mistake is easily prevented due to 1 statement runs after an if without {}.
[*]Always use a version control system. ALWAYS.  Even when working on a project by yourself I've been saved many, many times thanks to version control.
[*]Write Unit tests which verify each function for expected results AND boundary condition failures.
[*]No function should be larger than fits onto 1 computer screen. Really, anything over 20 lines is getting too long.
[*]Verify input data into every class and never, ever trust user input to be anything other than funky binary data trying to break your code.
[*]On larger projects, group the code into libraries that make sense and avoid circular dependencies. Don't get me started on this. I've had to clean up too many project where all the files were dumped into a single directory and statically linked into a massive program. Using libs and shared libraries can make code much quicker to compile and link, but it helps with reuse later and across multiple projects.
[/LIST]
Unrelated, but use as few I/O statements as possible. More couts mean the program runs slower.  A multi-line cout doesn't need multiple "cout" statements - just use the newline \n where you want it.


You don't have any pointers in the code, but if you did, I'd suggest pointer safety methods like setting to NULL before allocation, checking that the allocation succeeds and resetting back to NULL after the memory is delete/free'd.  Trying to find where a wild pointer got used is very hard, but if the pointer is reset back to NULL, at the next attempted use, the program should crash immediately.  That will tell you exactly where the problem lies.



Most of these tips will let the compiler find your programming mistakes, thus preventing them from happening at run-time.


Anyway, I hope this helps in some small way. Take what is useful for you today and use it.

---

### Post by wingnut2626 on 2013-01-30
Ok, well im doing this based off the book " Jumping into c++".  It seems like even after following the book chapter by chapter that the problems at the end are more advanced than what is taught preceeding them.  Is there a better way to learn c/c++?

---

### Post by wingnut2626 on 2013-01-30
It stinks because i know nothing about what you guys speak of.  indent?  debug?  AI test functions?

---

### Post by Tony Flury on 2013-01-30
> **wingnut2626 said:**
> It stinks because i know nothing about what you guys speak of.  indent?  debug?  AI test functions?

Indent - what is being refered to here is a consistent use of spaces at the start of your code lines so you can see easily where the code in a loop or an if actually sits. Your eys find spaces far easier than searching for { and }.

Debug - This means placing couts (or printfs) in your code at strategic places so you can see what the value of a particular variable is, or even just that the code actually executes the code block you think it does.

AI - Artifical Intelligence. Here it means code that actually tries to play the game against the human player. The easiest form of AI to code is one that makes random moves.

test functions - the best way to design and develop is to know what function needs to do before you write it, and then develop a shot program that calls your function with a vaiety of inputs so you can check that it works. Doing this means you can then use that function with confidence in a bigger program becuase you know it works.

---

### Post by r-senior on 2013-01-30
Don't worry if this seems difficult. Tictactoe is not a trivial program if it's done well. Maybe you should put this to one side for now and revisit it when you have a few more manageable programs under your belt?

I think you also need to consider whether you want to continue with C++ or start with C, Python or Java. All are easier IMO. I'm not a C++ programmer by any means but I learned the basics of C++ from:

[http://www.cplusplus.com/doc/tutorial/](http://www.cplusplus.com/doc/tutorial/)

But I already knew C and Java and was learning Python, so all that probably helped.

Indent is just a program that fixes indentation on source code based on certain standards. You need to install it first, then  run it on your source file (which it overwrites after making a backup copy):

```

$ sudo apt-get install indent
$ indent -linux myprogram.cpp

```

The 'linux' option is just one of several styles that it can apply. The style you use doesn't matter so much as that you apply it consistently. Indentation is a large part of understanding code.

When I was talking about debug statements, I didn't mean anything much more complex than:

```
cout << "DEBUG: " << myvariable << endl;
```

---

### Post by Zugzwang on 2013-01-30
> **wingnut2626 said:**
> It stinks because i know nothing about what you guys speak of.  indent?  debug?  AI test functions?

You should probably forget about what TheFu wrote - that is more advanced stuff. He/she is right in what he/she writes, but it's just more advanced stuff.

**You are on the right track.**

It is part of every programming language learning process to learn how to debug things, i.e., find problem with your code. For example, r-senior gave you some hints.

Hint a) is about indentation - the amount of leading whitespace in the lines of your code. This leading whitespace helps you to visualize what your code is actually doing. Here is an example from your code:

```

void playgame()
{
    do{
        
    taketurn(player1);
    checkwin();
    taketurn(player2);
    checkwin();
} while (checkwin() != 1);
}

```

Better indentation leads to this:
```

void playgame()
{
    do {       
        taketurn(player1);
        checkwin();
        taketurn(player2);
        checkwin();
    } while (checkwin() != 1);
}

```

This increases the readability of your code and thus helps you find bugs.

Then r-senior suggested to add some debug output to your functions taketurn() and playgame().

Debug output means that your program will print the contents of the variables that you use in the program solely for the purpose of letting you, the programmer, take a peak of what the program is actually doing. This allows you to compare that against the idea of your program in your head and trace where things go wrong.

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2013-01-30
It should also be mentioned that there is a debugger available under Linux.  It is called 'gdb'.  It's has a CLI, which is not very attractive, but is functional.

For a sexier debugger, there's 'ddd'.  It basically is a front-end GUI to 'gdb'.

To debug C++ (or C) code, make sure that the -g option is passed to the compiler.  Then to debug code, use either one of the following commands:
```

gdb ./myprog

# or

ddd ./myprog &

```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-01-30
> **wingnut2626 said:**
> Ok, well im doing this based off the book " Jumping into c++".  It seems like even after following the book chapter by chapter that the problems at the end are more advanced than what is taught preceeding them.  Is there a better way to learn c/c++?

I tried to learn from a book, but could never make the leap to understanding OO. I had to go to "church" to get the "OO religion."  My church was a local community college - the class was paid by the company.

I probably have the assignments around somewhere.  

Assignment 1:
>     Write a C program that clears the screen and displays a
    menu.  Give the user the options of multiplying two floats,
    dividing two floats, and quiting [sic] the program. Write a
    function to multiply two floats and a function to divide
    two floats.  The main function should contain a switch
    that calls the appropiate [sic] function or allows the user to
    quit using the exit function -  exit(0)   .  The results
    of the multiplication or division should be displayed to
    the screen in a highly readable form.
This can work for someone trying to learn C++ too.

My first post provided hints that will save you hundreds of hours.  I'm learning Ruby now and in that class, they teach test driven development, Rails, and git along with Ruby.  The language you are learning is only 30% of programming skills.

If you are brand new to programming - this is your first language, might I suggest Python instead? [http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/](http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/)  MIT has video lectures online for CompSci 101 based on Python too.

If you are set on learning C++, follow the selected book carefully and be certain you understand 90% of the concepts in each chapter. Work the exercises - type everything in, do not download the starter code. **TYPE IT IN!**

Keep working, it wasn't easy for anyone to learn. I started with BASIC on a TRS80, then Fortran with compile times that took 45 minutes and another 30 to link.

---

### Post by r-senior on 2013-01-30
OK, I had a play with this tonight. This is probably how I would start this game. My C++ isn't great so don't rely too much on that. The idea would be to get a Board class nailed down and build around that. So there's the beginnings of a test case for the Board class, methods to check for game over etc. See if that gets you heading in the right direction ...

*board.h*
```
const int ROWS = 3;
const int COLS = 3;

typedef enum {EMPTY, NOUGHT, CROSS} token_t;

class Board {
    token_t grid[ROWS][COLS];
public:
    Board();
    void add_token(token_t, int, int);
    bool is_free(int, int);
    bool is_full();
    bool is_game_over();
    void print();
    token_t winning_line();
};
```

*board.cpp*
```
#include <iostream>
#include <cassert>

#include "board.h"

// Forward declarations
static char display_for(token_t token);
    
/**
 * Constructor for board. Sets all rows and columns to the empty token.
 */
Board::Board()
{
    for (int row = 0; row < ROWS; row++) {
        for (int col = 0; col < COLS; col++) {
            grid[row][col] = EMPTY;
        }
    } 
}

/**
 * Print the current state of the board.
 */
void Board::print()
{
    std::cout << " +===+===+===+ " << std::endl;
    for (int row = 0; row < ROWS; row++) {
        std::cout << " | ";
        for (int col = 0; col < COLS; col++) {
            std::cout << display_for(grid[row][col]) << " | ";
        }
        std::cout << std::endl << " +===+===+===+ " << std::endl;
    }    
}

/**
 * Add a token to the board at a given square.
 * @param token the token to add (NOUGHT or CROSS)
 * @param row the row to add it
 * @param col the column to add it
 */
void Board::add_token(token_t token, int row, int col)
{
    assert(is_free(row, col));
    grid[row][col] = token;
}

/**
 * Check if the board is full of tokens. If there is no winning line
 * this will mean a drawn game.
 * @returns true if there are no empty squares, false otherwise
 */
bool Board::is_full()
{
    for (int row = 0; row < ROWS; row++) {
        for (int col = 0; col < COLS; col++) {
            if (grid[row][col] == EMPTY) {
                return false;
            }
        }
    }
    return true;
}

/**
 * Check if a square is free, i.e. doesn't have NOUGHT or CROSS.
 * @returns true if the square is free, false otherwise
 */
bool Board::is_free(int row, int col)
{
    return grid[row][col] == EMPTY;
}

/**
 * Check if the game is over. Either there is a winner, or the board is full.
 * @returns true if the game is over, false otherwise
 */
bool Board::is_game_over()
{
    return is_full() || winning_line() != EMPTY;
}

/**
 * Check for a winning line on the board. If there is no winning line
 * returns the empty token, otherwise the token that has the line.
 * @returns EMPTY if no winning line, otherwise the winning token
 */
token_t Board::winning_line()
{
    /**************************************************************/
    /* NB. This method is incomplete, it does not check diagonals */
    /**************************************************************/

    // Check for winning rows
    for (int row = 0; row < ROWS; row++) {
        if (grid[row][0] == grid[row][1] && grid[row][1] == grid[row][2]) {
            if (grid[row][0] != EMPTY) {
                return grid[row][0];
            }
        }
    }
    
    // Check for winning columns
    for (int col = 0; col < COLS; col++) {
        if (grid[0][col] == grid[1][col] && grid[1][col] == grid[2][col]) {
            if (grid[0][col] != EMPTY) {
                return grid[0][col];
            }
        }
    }

    return EMPTY;
}

// HELPER FUNCTIONS

/**
 * Return the display character for a given token, e.g. 'X', 'O'
 * @param token the token that needs to be displayed
 * @returns a single character for display on the board
 */
static char display_for(token_t token)
{
    switch (token) {
        case EMPTY: return ' ';
        case NOUGHT: return 'O';
        case CROSS: return 'X';
    }
    return ' ';
}

```

*testboard.cpp*
```
#include <cassert>
#include <iostream>

#include "board.h"

using namespace std;

void check_row(Board *board)
{
    board->add_token(NOUGHT, 1, 0);
    board->add_token(NOUGHT, 1, 1);
    assert(!board->is_game_over());
    assert(board->winning_line() == EMPTY);

    board->add_token(NOUGHT, 1, 2);
    assert(board->is_game_over());
    assert(board->winning_line() == NOUGHT);
    board->print();
    cout << "check_row passed" << endl;
}

void check_col(Board *board)
{
    board->add_token(CROSS, 0, 1);
    board->add_token(CROSS, 1, 1);
    assert(!board->is_game_over());
    assert(board->winning_line() == EMPTY);

    board->add_token(CROSS, 2, 1);
    assert(board->is_game_over());
    assert(board->winning_line() == CROSS);
    board->print();
    cout << "check_col passed" << endl;
}

int main()
{
    Board *board = new Board();
    check_row(board);
    delete board;
        
    board = new Board();
    check_col(board);
    delete board;

    return 0;
}
```

*Makefile*
```
CXX=g++
CPPFLAGS=-Wall -Wextra -pedantic
CC=g++
LDFLAGS=

OBJS = board.o testboard.o

all: testboard

testboard: ${OBJS}

board.o: board.cpp board.h
testboard.o: testboard.cpp board.h

clean:
	rm -fv *.o testboard

rebuild: clean all
```

And a sample compile and run ...

```
$ make
g++  -Wall -Wextra -pedantic  -c -o testboard.o testboard.cpp
g++  -Wall -Wextra -pedantic  -c -o board.o board.cpp
g++   testboard.o board.o   -o testboard
$ ./testboard
 +===+===+===+ 
 |   |   |   | 
 +===+===+===+ 
 | O | O | O | 
 +===+===+===+ 
 |   |   |   | 
 +===+===+===+ 
check_row passed
 +===+===+===+ 
 |   | X |   | 
 +===+===+===+ 
 |   | X |   | 
 +===+===+===+ 
 |   | X |   | 
 +===+===+===+ 
check_col passed

```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-01-31
Golf clap for the Board class. Very nice C++.  OTOH, doing someone's homework, not good.

The Makefile CCOPTS should probably get a **-ggdb **too, correct?  Oops, sorry, that should be CPPFLAGS with that option.  It enabled debugging symbols to be added to the objs.  For the "clean:" target in the Makefile - the following line **must** start with a tab character.  That is true for all targets, so if a generic .c.o: target was used in the file, then the following line that tells the compiler how to build each .o would need to begin with a tab too.

I love Makefiles.  They are simple, smart, and can perform extremely complex builds while only building things that have been touched, nothing more.  I've been reusing the same basic Makefile since 1993. It is self-modifying to automatically find and append dependencies for all code in the project.

Nice post on the Board class. It is better than I would have done myself in the same time period.  I might have gotten bogged down using an interactive session to enter moves and/or allowing a control file to be play a complete game - think of it as a test harness.

I must admit that my "Chicken" class - you've all seen where a chicken plays tic-tac-toe, right - would have sucked and used brute force to find the shortest moves to winning based on the count of used squares.  Lots-o-options.

Be sure to check in the code! :O

---

### Post by r-senior on 2013-01-31
> **TheFu said:**
> OTOH, doing someone's homework, not good.
I agree, but if it was a homework assignment and the OP wanted an easy way out, there are dozens of complete solutions floating around on various C++ forums. ;)

Mostly procedural too. What do they teach in C++ programming classes?

---

### Post by satsujinka on 2013-01-31
> **r-senior said:**
> I agree, but if it was a homework assignment and the OP wanted an easy way out, there are dozens of complete solutions floating around on various C++ forums. ;)

Mostly procedural too. What do they teach in C++ programming classes?

In intro classes? Usually procedural with maybe a note at the end about objects.

That said, procedural works fine for tick-tack-toe. It's primarily a procedural game and the only benefit using classes brings you is encapsulation of the board implementation (which could be encapsulated anyways by only exporting a "begin_game" function.)

---

### Post by wingnut2626 on 2013-01-31
Its not homework, im not in school.  im just trying to learn something different....

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-02-01
> **wingnut2626 said:**
> Its not homework, im not in school.  im just trying to learn something different....

Then keep asking questions, but the struggle IS important to understanding.

Have you looked through [r-senior]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=288993")'s code? It is fairly well written and logical, though it does have more files and parts than someone on Chpt3 just starting C++ should understand.  You will come to appreciate nice code like that as much of the real-world code I see is crap in comparison.

We're here to help as long as you are doing the work.
Feel free to PM me if you are stuck on a concept.

---

