---
title: "6.06 : programming language available"
date: 2006-06-04
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-06-04
From out of the box installed 6.06, what is included/ready_to_use in it in terms of programing language we can learn start using ?

What programing language is possible on it but needs minimal downloads/installation ?


I know I wanna learn JAVA. I used to have Eclipse at the office but on 5.10 Ubuntu, it ran fine at first but then started to have library corruption. I tried to remove it. Haven't tried it/installed it on 6.06 yet.

I also want to do PHP. I think I saw a php edit on 6.06

I know I can do UNIX Shell on it (Linux version).

In general, its more related to Internet site building/programming.

Added comments : Oh I forgot. I also wanna do SQL based applications running on Internet.

---

### Post by loell on 2006-06-04
Python and Perl is already installed by default :)

---

### Post by johnnymac on 2006-06-04
So if you want to do web-based stuff with PHP and a SQL engine you'll need to install:

Apache, PHP, MySQL - they don't come ready to go.

As for other programming lanugauges scritping languages are ready to go and if you load build essential you'll get what you need for C/C++ based stuff.

Anything else can be pulled in through apt-get

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2006-06-06
If you want java and a minimal download IDE, can I suggest bluej [http://www.bluej.org](http://www.bluej.org)? It's a small free IDE, developed for teaching java. I think it's a very good starter IDE.

---

### Post by tht00 on 2006-06-07
[QUOTE=Browser_ice]From out of the box installed 6.06, what is included/ready_to_use in it in terms of programing language we can learn start using ?

What programing language is possible on it but needs minimal downloads/installation ?


I know I wanna learn JAVA. I used to have Eclipse at the office but on 5.10 Ubuntu, it ran fine at first but then started to have library corruption. I tried to remove it. Haven't tried it/installed it on 6.06 yet.

I also want to do PHP. I think I saw a php edit on 6.06

I know I can do UNIX Shell on it (Linux version).

In general, its more related to Internet site building/programming.

Added comments : Oh I forgot. I also wanna do SQL based applications running on Internet.[/QUOTE]

Hmm... minimal install...

The 'build-essential' package includes the gcc (C) and g++ (C++) compiler.  It's required to build programs from source anyway.  It's also a whopping 7KB download (< 2 sec on 56k dialup). ;)

C/C++ isn't quite appropriate for web development, though, good languages to know.

BTW, why isn't build-essential included with the distro?

---

### Post by Mike Douglas on 2006-06-07
[QUOTE=tht00]
BTW, why isn't build-essential included with the distro?
[/QUOTE]
[Jeff Waugh](https://launchpad.net/people/jdub): "I would strongly suggest that 'secure by default' means 'no compilers for the script kiddies'. Let's not do this, it freaks me out."

---

### Post by exclipy on 2006-06-07
[QUOTE=Mike Douglas][Jeff Waugh](https://launchpad.net/people/jdub): "I would strongly suggest that 'secure by default' means 'no compilers for the script kiddies'. Let's not do this, it freaks me out."[/QUOTE]

Um.... what stops the script kiddies from installing compilers, and why are compilers so dangerous in the hands of script kiddies?

---

### Post by Mike Douglas on 2006-06-07
> 
Um.... what stops the script kiddies from installing compilers, and why are compilers so dangerous in the hands of script kiddies?

Here is the whole debate regarding build-essential: (better than me misquoting)

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/sounder/2004-September/000524.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/sounder/2004-September/000524.html)

---

### Post by adamkane on 2006-06-07
Many languages are easy to install: 
C/C++, Perl, Pythonor PHP. 

Ruby and Java are also pretty easy to install.

Use the O'Reilly series of books no matter which language you choose.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-06-07
No one seamed to have answered about Eclipse.

Has anyone else had problems with it in 5.10 ?

Has anyone have problems with 6.06 ?
- Did you fix it and how ?

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-06-07
[QUOTE=Mike Douglas]Here is the whole debate regarding build-essential: (better than me misquoting)

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/sounder/2004-September/000524.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/sounder/2004-September/000524.html)[/QUOTE]


Going to your link brings this below content up. Not sure if its the right thing or if there is a problem.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
> build-essential
Matt Zimmerman mdz at canonical.com 
Fri Sep 3 18:11:43 CDT 2004 

Previous message: LCD resolution probe failing in current daily 
Next message: build-essential 
Messages sorted by: [ date ] [ thread ] [ subject ] [ author ] 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I just noticed that build-essential and its dependencies only add about 15M
on top of the existing desktop install.  How about we promote
build-essential to desktop?

-- 
 - mdz




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Previous message: LCD resolution probe failing in current daily 
Next message: build-essential 
Messages sorted by: [ date ] [ thread ] [ subject ] [ author ] 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
More information about the sounder mailing list


---

### Post by simplyw00x on 2006-06-07
It's a mailing list discussion. Click the 'Next message: build-essential' link to view the next message. The discussion continues for quite some time and is a... shall we say... interesting insight into the Ubuntu dev team. The religious 'THIS ISN'T LINUX IT'S A DESKTOP PLATFORM' fervour is pretty chilling to say the least.

---

