---
title: "Anjuta Build Unsuccessful"
date: 2007-07-05
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by daxumaming on 2007-07-05
This is the first time I'll use Anjuta and I'm having some problems building a GUI Hello world app. I have no problem creating a Generic/Terminal project but everytime I create a GTK 2.0, GNOME 2.0, LibGlade 2.0, gtkmm 2.0, etc projects, it keeps on saying unsuccessful. I was able to solve it by following the instructions on this [thread]("http://osdir.com/ml/ide.anjuta.users/2006-04/threads.html#00007"). But now when I "Build All", I'm getting "unsuccessful" error. I'm attaching the Build log.

Also, may I know where I can manipulate the GUI within Anjuta... or do I need to use Glade for GUI apps. 

May I also know where I can find some resources, I've tried Googling it out but I just can't find a good Howto or tutorial. The tutorial included with the documentation is old (using the older version of Anjuta) and I can't seem to follow the instructions.

Thanks for any help you can provide.

---

### Post by kknd on 2007-07-05
> **daxumaming said:**
> Also, may I know where I can manipulate the GUI within Anjuta... or do I need to use Glade for GUI apps. 

Anjuta comes with a glade plugin, that integrate the IDE with Glade. I've compiled Anjuta and tried to use it for one hour. I've got 8 crashes, nothing useful worked.

- Glade integration crashed 3 times (I've tried 4 times).
- GDB and Valgrind integration crashes here.
- Code completion doesn't show signs of life.

Maybe I'm out of luck...

Seeing your log:

window1_glade.cc:37:25: error: gtkmmconfig.h: No such file or directory

This line shows that you dont have the **libgtkmm-dev** properly instaled.

---

### Post by AlexThomson_NZ on 2007-07-05
I have tried also to no avail, ended up using Geany which ended up being better IMHO.

I would be careful using Anjuta and glade together anyway, as of glade-3 auto-code-generation has been removed, so this might break Anjuta somewhat.  Best to get used to GUI development and code development being seperate...

---

### Post by {spitFire} on 2007-07-05
> **daxumaming said:**
> This is the first time I'll use Anjuta and I'm having some problems building a GUI Hello world app. I have no problem creating a Generic/Terminal project but everytime I create a GTK 2.0, GNOME 2.0, LibGlade 2.0, gtkmm 2.0, etc projects, it keeps on saying unsuccessful. I was able to solve it by following the instructions on this [thread]("http://osdir.com/ml/ide.anjuta.users/2006-04/threads.html#00007"). But now when I "Build All", I'm getting "unsuccessful" error. I'm attaching the Build log.


can you also post the code, if you don't mind?

---

### Post by daxumaming on 2007-07-06
This is the code generated by Anjuta, haven't touched anything, yet. Just wanted to make sure that I have a window up before I do anything.
```

#include <config.h>
#include <gtkmm/main.h>
#include <glib/gi18n.h>

#include "window1.hh"

int main(int argc, char **argv)
{  
#if defined(ENABLE_NLS)
   bindtextdomain (GETTEXT_PACKAGE, PACKAGE_LOCALE_DIR);
   bind_textdomain_codeset(GETTEXT_PACKAGE, "UTF-8");
   textdomain (GETTEXT_PACKAGE);
#endif //ENABLE_NLS
   
   Gtk::Main m(&argc, &argv);

window1 *window1 = new class window1();
   m.run(*window1);
delete window1;
   return 0;
}


```

> 
Best to get used to GUI development and code development being seperate...

Got used to VC++6, that's why I'm looking for a good (and fast) IDE for Xubuntu.

Thanks for your help guys.

---

