---
title: ".java to class diagram?"
date: 2006-12-20
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by castudil on 2006-12-20
HI,

I have some classes implemented in java and I am looking for an application which can generate UML class diagrams or similar. Anyone knows?
Thanks!

---

### Post by castudil on 2006-12-20
> **castudil said:**
> HI,

I have some classes implemented in java and I am looking for an application which can generate UML class diagrams or similar. Anyone knows?
Thanks!

I mean an application that can generate class diagrams from a .java file :D

---

### Post by Tomosaur on 2006-12-20
Not sure if you can do it that way around - or at least I've never seen it done (technically, you're supposed to draw the UML diagrams first :P)

However, Umbrello (it's in the repos) can create Java code (and other languages too) FROM UML diagrams - you just have to fill in the body of the functions yourself. I can't check right now whether you can go from code to UML, but it's worth taking a look.

---

### Post by orlox on 2006-12-20
I'm pretty much sure that there was an eclipse plugin that could do that....although I can't remeber how it was named....

---

### Post by castudil on 2006-12-20
> **Tomosaur said:**
> (technically, you're supposed to draw the UML diagrams first :P)

as E.W. Dijsktra said

'you will discover that software engineering has accepted as its charter "How to program if you cannot.".'

> **orlox said:**
> I'm pretty much sure that there was an eclipse plugin that could do that....although I can't remeber how it was named....

I just want to know if there exist an application for that in ubuntu, a light one.

I wonder if other programmers have the same need.


Thank you!

---

### Post by micahkoga on 2006-12-20
You might want to try Jude: [http://jude.change-vision.com/jude-web/index.html]("http://jude.change-vision.com/jude-web/index.html")

I use it at work for UML Modeling and Reverse Engineering.

---

### Post by castudil on 2006-12-20
> **micahkoga said:**
> You might want to try Jude: [http://jude.change-vision.com/jude-web/index.html]("http://jude.change-vision.com/jude-web/index.html")

I use it at work for UML Modeling and Reverse Engineering.

Thank you, I will take a deeper look at it.

---

### Post by lloyd mcclendon on 2006-12-21
welcome to the hopeless search for a good free uml tool

argo uml sucks

omondo is decent & does what you need, but it's insanely expensive after 30 days.  the taylor plugin is supposed to be cool

i'm sure within the next 12 months someone will release the silver bullet for MDA.  but for now my python scripts work just fine for what i need.

---

### Post by Tomosaur on 2006-12-21
> **castudil said:**
> as E.W. Dijsktra said

'you will discover that software engineering has accepted as its charter "How to program if you cannot.".'


Oh don't get me wrong, I understand all that, I was merely pointing out that I don't think there exists any software to do this yet. When I use UML, I generally just write the code first and then spend hours doing the UML to match it. I'm not 'supposed' to do that, but I usually end up altering my code when I find a conflict within the UML diagrams, so there is at least some use. I too would be interested in finding a program to do this for me, because in all honesty I hate UML anyway, but I don't think there are any available yet. Maybe you should write one :P

Anyway, an interesting tool I was told about (and have used) is SpecExplorer from Microsoft. You write your program in ASML, and SpecExplorer will compile it for you and create an exectuable program. ASML is a specification language for those of you who don't know about it. It 'looks' like a programming language, but it isn't really. ASML gets converted into C# by SpecExplorer, and the program is compiled from that. It's a really good way of getting a 'more detailed' overview of classes and functions and whatnot, and it has some very cool data types and functions as standard. It takes a little getting used to, because it's easy to think of it as a programming language, but it does have some pretty big differences. It may be 
worth taking a look if you're getting sick of UML. To me, ASML is a much more effective way of specifying and outlining the design of software.

Oh yeah, it only works in Windows (because it's from Microsoft :P) - hopefully someone will release an ASML interpretor/'compiler' in the future for linux. [Here's the link](http://research.microsoft.com/specexplorer/)

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2006-12-22
There's a lightweight IDE called bluej that creates these diagrams. [http://www.bluej.org](http://www.bluej.org)

---

