---
title: "Use of scripts?"
date: 2013-05-03
forum: Programming Talk
---

### Post by BluNova on 2013-05-03
I'm confused when and why would you need to use scripts?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-05-03
To automate tasks?

---

### Post by trent.josephsen on 2013-05-03
That all depends on the meaning of the word "script". The question of what is and is not a script tends to degrade into a heated argument nearly every time it comes up, so here are a few examples of programs that may or may not be considered "scripts" that are very useful.

* Portage, Gentoo's package management system, is a program written in Python, which many would call a "scripting language" (another semantic minefield). It's pretty big and incredibly useful. I'm drawing a blank on similar programs available for Ubuntu at the moment.
* Anything in /etc/init.d. These are startup scripts and your computer won't function usefully without at least some of them.
* Any Web page, including the one you're currently reading, generated by a PHP (or Perl or whatever) script. Facebook wouldn't exist without scripts, and whatever you may say about Facebook, it's surely useful.
* A file containing commands to automate some task in a specific program. Some programs are scriptable in languages like Lua, Tcl, Python, VBA and various forms of Lisp. Other programs have their own scripting languages. In either case the goal is to make using the program easier.
* Any short program written to make a complex task easily repeatable. I'm considering writing a script to restore my keyboard layout settings after resume from suspend because Xfce always borks them up somehow.
* Any short program written to make a tedious task simple. I once wrote a Perl script to rename all my .jpegs to the format yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm.jpeg (or something like that) so that they would sort in the proper order. If one-liners count, I wrote one of those the other day to line up a ragged chunk of source code.
* Any short program. Self explanatory, really.

There's a lot of overlap between these categories and I don't think I've covered all the possible meanings of "script", but hopefully it's clear that scripts by anyone's definition are used for a lot of things and computers would not be the same without them.

---

### Post by BluNova on 2013-05-04
Aaa i see now thanks

---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2013-05-07
Tossing in a couple more pennies here...

I believe the 2 things to understand about a script, is that 1) it's a program, and 2) that it's written in plain text. It doesn't get compiled into a form that's not human-readable. If you have the authority to examine the contents of the script, you would be able to read it in a plain text editor. Like any program, a script will have special terms to call for functions; things that need to be done. This includes looping and conditional branching. But, it remains a plain text file, and is denoted as being a program (a script) via the executable bit being set. I'm sure there will be some who disagree, but I think if it got compiled out of being human-readable, then it's no longer properly termed a "script".

---

### Post by trent.josephsen on 2013-05-07
Eh, that's a perfectly reasonable rule of thumb, but it's not definitive. For one thing, according to your definition, a program can't really be called a script until it's run. If I wrote a program intending to chown +x it and run it that way, and then when I was done, changed my mind and compiled a binary file, does that mean what I was doing wasn't scripting? Even if the development process and end result are identical?

"Script" is an ambiguous term and I just don't try to rigorously define it. Same deal with "embedded" or the difference between hardware and software.

---

### Post by alan9800 on 2013-05-07
IMHO the main difference between a program and a script could be that  the first is more complex than the second, i.e. a program contains more  functions and procedures than a script.
However I agree with what [post=12637273]trent.josephsen[/post] wrote: "script" is an ambiguous term, as well as  "scripting language": e.g. you can create big applications with python, although that programming language is defined "scripting language".

---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2013-05-26
Actually, the ambiguous term is "program", because it's got more than one meaning. At most basic, it's a sequenced set of elementary operations for accomplishing a task. But, it's also used for a sequenced set of commands automating a task, compiled into a binary executable, no longer human-readable. Before & after compilation, the sequenced set of instructions can be the same - but, the actual contents of the files are very different. Even further, if I flowchart to diagram the sequence of instructions for automating a task, that too is called a "program". The flowchart & the typed in programming language commands are both human-readable, and the compiled version is machine code - but, they're each called a "program".

Reading what I wrote previously, I have to agree that it didn't make the grade. Here's why:
When I first got into the study of data processing, I was taught that originally a script was a series of commands in a high-level shell language that could be typed in line-by-line at a terminal, with each line executed immediately, and achieve the same result as if it was run as an executable. This included commands for conditional testing, and looping within a single line. Shortly after that, the definition expanded to include automation of branching & looping between sections in the shell script. However, the scripts never left the condition of being human-readable, and the term "script" was always used in reference to a sequence of commands executed in a shell such as bash or DOS. Length was never referenced; scripts could be any length at all; i.e., 1 command or > 1000.

Obviously, things have changed a lot in the past 30 years,... I'm sure the current definition of "script" has changed, but if it's now vague is that an indication that its meaning has faltered, or that improper use of the term became commonplace & subsequently the dominant definition?

I'd never heard that said about python, that it's defined as a "scripting language". I wonder if that's an indication of its original usage, or misuse of the term "scripting"?

---

### Post by trent.josephsen on 2013-05-26
"Program" is also ambiguous, but that doesn't mean that "script" isn't. What you were taught 30 years ago was no more definitive then than it is now.

It's a pretty stupid semantic nit to argue about though. //

---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2013-06-10
You bet! (Fun, isn't it?)

---

### Post by ofnuts on 2013-06-10
Since this thread is revived... for me the big difference between a script and a program is that most of the work in the script is done by "other" code, so there is little application logic in the script itself, which very often doesn't even sees the actual data.. The whole script is governed by these external functions and the efficiency of the script depends more on how these functions are used than on the script code itself. In other words writing a script is like building a stone wall... you mostly make the mortar and choose/layout the stones, while a true program is more like a concrete wall where you do everything. Of course things aren't that binary and some "programs" that rely on big frameworks are themselves pretty close to scripts.

---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2013-06-12
I like that definition, point of distinction, between programs & scripts; that, the bulk of the application logic doing the actual work is elsewhere.  However, I still think that in order to be considered a script, it must remain human-readable; i.e., once it's converted to machine code, even w/ no change of contents, it ceases to be a script & becomes a program.

(Are you sure that last line is what you intended to write?)

---

