---
title: "./configure and libssl-dev"
date: 2012-12-17
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by roflharrison on 2012-12-17
Hello,

I'm having trouble running  ./configure on the raop_play source.

libssl-dev is installed.

```
 sudo ls /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl*
```
displays:
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl3.so  /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl3.so.1d  /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl.a  /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl.so    /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl.so.0.9.8[

I've also tried various combinations of the configure command parameters:
```
sudo ./configure --with-ssl=/usr/bin/openssl --with-ssl-lib=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu
```I've tried reinstalling libssl-dev with no success, anyone got an idea what I'm doing incorrectly?

---

### Post by drmrgd on 2012-12-17
What are the errors you're getting?  Can you post the output of your build attempt?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2012-12-17
Also, do not run *./configure* with sudo. And not *make*, either. Just *make install* (if you run it at all).

---

### Post by roflharrison on 2012-12-17
Oh, sorry, I forgot the error :oops:

Here is the full output:
checking for g++... g++
checking for C++ compiler default output file name... a.out
checking whether the C++ compiler works... yes
checking whether we are cross compiling... no
checking for suffix of executables... 
checking for suffix of object files... o
checking whether we are using the GNU C++ compiler... yes
checking whether g++ accepts -g... yes
checking for gcc... gcc
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... yes
checking for gcc option to accept ISO C89... none needed
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking for pkg-config... /usr/bin/pkg-config
checking pkg-config is at least version 0.16... yes
checking for GLIB - version >= 2.0.0... yes (version 2.34.0)
checking for id3_file_open in -lid3tag... yes
checking for fl_yes in -lfltk... yes
checking for src_new in -lsamplerate... yes
checking for RSA_new in -lssl... no
configure: error: Library ssl is required



>Also, do not run *./configure* with sudo. And not *make*, either. Just *make install* (if you run it at all). 	
Thanks for the tip, will keep this in mind :)

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-12-17
Hi I had a play with this and it looks like the configure problem may be that RSA_new() is actually defined in libcrypto, not in libssl - I got it to configure by replacing '-lssl' with '-lssl -lcrypto' everywhere

There are also some problems with the link order (it will configure and compile, but not link until you fix that - at least with gcc-4.6), and a glib-2.0 header file which appears to install into the lib dir rather than the include dir - not sure the right way to fix that (I hacked it with a symlink back to /usr/include/glib-2.0)

Good luck - post back if you're still having problems

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-12-17
You may find it more useful to look at pulseaudio-module-raop & how to use rather than a 4-6 year old source

---

### Post by roflharrison on 2012-12-18
Thanks a lot, I'll play with the configure file and report back.

>You may find it more useful to look at pulseaudio-module-raop & how to use rather than a 4-6 year old source
Will take a look at that. 

There was some activity on raop_play over the last few months in the UDP folder which is where my interest lies.

---

### Post by schoseb on 2013-01-31
Hi roflharrison,

did you actually make it? I got the same error here. module_raop does not work for me, so i'm looking for alternatives to send audio to my (non-apple) airplay receiver.

On a windows machine you can use iTunes or something like Airfoil, but i haven't found a suitable solution for my linux box

---

