---
title: "Debianise QT program"
date: 2010-08-11
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by ras123 on 2010-08-11
Hi,
I wrote a Qt program in Ubuntu and it works fine. Now I need to distribute it as debian, how can I do it?

And how to create a configure file for the program?

Thanking You,
Ras

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-08-11
To 'debianize' your source see the sticky: [MOTU Team Information, Official Packaging Guide & Ubuntu Development]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=599473") and look at the [Ubuntu Packaging Guide]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Complete")

For starting Autotools tutorials try, 
[http://markuskimius.wikidot.com/programming:tut:autotools](http://markuskimius.wikidot.com/programming:tut:autotools)
[http://www.developingprogrammers.com/index.php/2006/01/05/autotools-tutorial/](http://www.developingprogrammers.com/index.php/2006/01/05/autotools-tutorial/)
they look ok to me.

---

### Post by ras123 on 2010-08-17
The link works perfectly with normal program, but I think these tools are not for using Qt programs which compiled using qmake!!
When running ./configure displays no errors, but calling make stops because of errors.

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-08-18
There is a cdbs module for packaging with qmake so if you're following the Ubuntu Packaging Guide for packaging with cdbs you should just be able to replace the standard makefile entry in debian/rules, 

replace,
/usr/share/cdbs/1/class/makefile.mk
with, 
/usr/share/cdbs/1/class/qmake.mk

you should get by with a debian/rules file of something like
> #!/usr/bin/make -f
include /usr/share/cdbs/1/rules/debhelper.mk
include /usr/share/cdbs/1/class/qmake.mk
The rest of the guide should then apply. 
If you're having problems if you can post details, error logs and/or code.

---

### Post by ras123 on 2010-08-18
Hi,
Yes it worked, but can you tell me how to specify install path in this case, because after installing I can't start the program by typing its name in the terminal, and I found that no binaries installed in /usr/bin or /usr/local/bin.
Actually, when I compiled by qmake then make, but there is no response for make install with the make file generated by qmake.
Thanking You,
Ras

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-08-18
hi, you'd need to post code/packaging/ppa link really for me to take a guess. chances are that the binaries havent installed into the package so although it builds and installs, it doesnt actually install anything useful. you'll see for yourself if this is true with
$dpkg -L <my_package_name>
replacing <my_package_name> with whatever it is obviously

---

### Post by ras123 on 2010-08-18
Hi,
Code attached. I can execute the program in lucid by double clicking the binary inside
Thanking You,
Ras
P.S I also like to make an rpm

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-08-18
hi, if debian/rules is using cdbs's makefile.mk, then this means it is using your sources makefile to work out what to install.
But your makefile does nothing on 'make install' so neither does the packager. You can manually specify what to install by adding a file (if gflash is what you've called the package in debian/control),

debian/gflash.install
> gflash /usr/bin
This tells debhelper (dh_install) to install gflash to /usr/bin in your package.

Eiher that or you could fix up your makefile to install things on 'make install'

---

