---
title: ".bas"
date: 2012-04-15
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-04-15
i have a group of files that were  created in GWBasic.  I need to know
how to import them to GWBasic or convert them to some form of text file.

can Any one help?

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-04-18
any one ?  Help?

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2012-04-18
> **stalkingwolf said:**
> i have a group of files that were  created in GWBasic.  I need to know
how to import them to GWBasic or convert them to some form of text file.

can Any one help?

The .bas files are plain text files. Just open them in a text editor like gedit or nano. Maybe I don't understand your question?

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-04-20
gedit doesnt recognise the character encoding

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-04-20
gedit doesnt recognise the character encoding

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2012-04-20
> **stalkingwolf said:**
> gedit doesnt recognise the character encoding

If you haven't run these yet can you run the commands and post the output of them?

```

file yourFileHere.bas

```

```

head yourFileHere.bas

```

---

### Post by lisati on 2012-04-20
If memory serves correctly, GWBasic files are stored in [tokenised]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Token_(parser)") form by default. You might need to look around for a tool to convert them to ASCII (plain text), which is what I think the OP was asking about.

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2012-04-20
GWBasic .bas files are binary format by default, don't know if theres a non-emulation way to go about converting them but..

*Download GWBasic [http://www.gw-basic.com/downloads.html](http://www.gw-basic.com/downloads.html) and extract

* start in dosbox
$ dosbox GWBASIC.EXE

* In dosbox/GWBasic load the file
load "MYFILE.BAS"

* and then save to ascii
save "MYFILE.TXT",a

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-04-20
tried ORBIT.BAS and ORBIT.BAS and it returned illegal command

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-04-20
im getting no such file to both commands.






update. i feel really stupid.   i discovered that all variations of word programs, ms office word, Oo writer and Lowriter will open them. wont know if its what he wants til tomorrow.  I would like to figure out what im doing wrong with dosbox and GWBASIC .

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2012-04-21
> **stalkingwolf said:**
> tried ORBIT.BAS and ORBIT.BAS and it returned illegal commandSorry, I'm not following what you mean here, can you post *exactly* what you did what commands you typed etc.

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-04-21
ok what im seeing is that dosbox is not starting/mounting gwbasic.


sorry this is all new to me .

ok got gwbasic to open.  now have to figure out how to make it find the programs.  what im reading is telling me the load command is looking for a floppy drive.

i tried home/+++/Desktop/gbasic/FACTOR7.BAS and it tells me wrong syntax.

ok i got it. this is how

open dosbox
type mount c ~/ directory      (mine is gbasic in the home folder, I c&ped all his .BAS files there also)
once its mounted type C:
then GWBASIC.EXE
when that opens type files to see a list of the files
then load a file 
then run.  and bobs your uncle.

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-04-22
ok the only problem now is getting a program  to stop can kill gwbasic and dosbox but havent found the magic word to stop a program.  tried KILL,STOP,and END. 

the magic spell is CTRL+C

again Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-05-15
OK it seems there is a short for lack of a better word between dosbox and gwbasic.  I have the patches just trying to find someone local to walk me thru applying them to the source code.

thanks for everything.

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2012-05-26
patches not required while reading i discovered that the key combination has changed.  it is now ctrl + Scroll lock.

---

