---
title: "copyright and versions for my PPA project"
date: 2009-02-10
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-02-10
Hi,
I'm developing a small project that I want to publish on my Launchpad PPA. Before I upload any source packages, I want to make sure I do everything right.

The first question I have is about the debian/copyright file.
My sources are all under GPL-3+ and my manpage is GFDL-1.2+, all copyright to me. I've already put entries for all these in the copyright file. What I'm not sure about though, is what, if anything I should add for the files generated by autoconf and automake? They're all copyright FSF (except install-sh: copyright X Consortium). Some of them: aclocal.m4, depcomp and missing are GPL-2+, I can add these to the copyright file easily enough, but I'm not sure what license the rest are under.

My next question is about versioning. At this stage, the version number is 1.0, when I ran dh_make it automatically put the version number 1.0-1 into the changelog file. The launchpad help isn't very clear on what should be done with the version if there isn't already a version of the package in the Ubuntu repositories. Should I change the version to 1.0-2~ppa1 even though there is no existing Ubuntu package (nor is there likely to be one any time soon), or can I leave it as 1.0-1 or 1.0-1~ppa1? 
Also, if I want to provide packages for both Hardy and Intrepid (compiled from the same source code), should I create different source packages with different version numbers (eg 1.0-1~hardy1 and 1.0-1~intrepid~1)?

---

### Post by Triggerhapp on 2009-02-10
I can atleast answer the last one for you! What you should do is change the distro in the debian/changelog then dput/build it again, which will create a package for that version of ubuntu instead.

Welcome to the fun world of packaging, Im still new to it myself

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-02-11
> **Triggerhapp said:**
> I can atleast answer the last one for you! What you should do is change the distro in the debian/changelog then dput/build it again, which will create a package for that version of ubuntu instead.

I take it that means I do have to create a different source package for each Ubuntu version. According to [http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-source.html#s-dpkgchangelog](http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-source.html#s-dpkgchangelog) it's possible to list more than one distribution in the changelog file and I was hoping I could just list say ```
hardy intrepid jaunty
``` there and then upload the same source package for all three distros.

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-02-11
> **heindsight said:**
> According to [http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-source.html#s-dpkgchangelog](http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-source.html#s-dpkgchangelog) it's possible to list more than one distribution in the changelog file and I was hoping I could just list say ```
hardy intrepid jaunty
``` there and then upload the same source package for all three distros.

OK, I tried to build a source package with more than one distribution listed in the changelog, and lintian complained saying
```
bad-ubuntu-distribution-in-changes-file hardy intrepid jaunty
```
So it seems listing more than one distribution in the changelog is not allowed. Guess I'll just have to make a different source package for each distribution. Seems a bit of a waste of space and bandwidth, but OK.

---

### Post by Triggerhapp on 2009-02-11
Use the same source package, Just replace the name of the distro in debian/changelog and rebuild, this is simple enough for a script to handle

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-02-12
> **Triggerhapp said:**
> Use the same source package, Just replace the name of the distro in debian/changelog and rebuild, this is simple enough for a script to handle

That's a great idea. thanks.
I wish I could claim to have thought of that :)

In other news, I've decided against using GFDL for my manual (I only realised yesterday that using GFDL would require including the full text of the license in the man page).

I also decided to stay on the safe side and mention everything that's in the source package in the copyright file.

And I uploaded for hardy and intrepid using version numbers 1.0-0~ppaX~hardy1 and 1.0-0~ppaX~intrepid1

So thanks. Consider this thread solved.

---

