---
title: ".deb packaging questions"
date: 2009-03-03
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by WindPower on 2009-03-03
Hello, I've got a few questions regarding .deb packaging and its best practices.
[list][*]I'm trying to package a Python program which uses wxPython. Any version of wxPython would work, but in the repos, there are packages like python-wxgtk2.4, python-wxgtk2.6, and python-wxgtk2.8. How can I make my package require at least one of these, without enforcing a specific version?
[*]My Python program only works with Python 2.5.whatever. How do I enforce this, and how do I make sure my program's main .py file is always launched using Python 2.5?
[*]I want to place a shortcut to my program in the Applications Menu. I was successful, but I can't seem to get the .desktop file to go to the "Sound & Video" submenu by itself. How can I make sure the shortcut goes to that category when the package is installed?[/list]

---

### Post by loell on 2009-03-04
let it depend on current wxgtk versions either 2.6 or 2.8 , as it is unlikely that the package will be obsoleted for the next couple of years.

and you can just add **python2.5** to the control file.

---

### Post by WindPower on 2009-03-04
Thanks for the answers! 

My third question is left unanswered for now, so I'm not marking this as solved yet. :)

---

### Post by loell on 2009-03-05
in your control file there's a **section** entry, put "Section: sound".

---

### Post by WindPower on 2009-03-05
Awesome, thanks! I had tried "multimedia", "soundvideo", and "soundandvideo" before. Guess I was trying too hard :D

---

