---
title: "dh_make Outputs &quot;Depends: ${shlibs:Depends}, ${misc:Depends}&quot;"
date: 2010-07-24
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by dodle on 2010-07-24
I'm curious to know what these two items mean.  When I use dh_make to debianize some source code, in the debian/control file, the "Depends" line has these two items: ${shlibs:Depends}, ${misc:Depends}.  Are these just some kind of template that dh_make produces, or are they actually important?

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-07-24
I'd say they are important in the sense that debhelper uses these to make your life easier!You should find a file called something like
debian/<packagename>.substvars that debhelper creates on building which contains the variables and what they will expand to inside debian/control.
as far as i follow, shlibs is the list generated by dh_shlibdeps, trying to work out what libraries each package needs (see also 'man dpkg-shlibdeps')

whereas misc is used by debhelper to expand the dependencies that are, well, misc! things that debelper uses but might not be obvious. a better explanation is from the following section of 'man debhelper'

> **Automatic generation of miscellaneous dependencies.**
       Some debhelper commands may make the generated package need to depend
       on some other packages. For example, if you use dh_installdebconf(1),
       your package will generally need to depend on debconf. Or if you use
       dh_installxfonts(1), your package will generally need to depend on a
       particular version of xutils. Keeping track of these miscellaneous
       dependencies can be annoying since they are dependant on how debhelper
       does things, so debhelper offers a way to automate it.

       All commands of this type, besides documenting what dependencies may be
       needed on their man pages, will automatically generate a substvar
       called ${misc:Depends}. If you put that token into your debian/control
       file, it will be expanded to the dependencies debhelper figures you
       need.

       This is entirely independent of the standard ${shlibs:Depends}
       generated by dh_makeshlibs(1), and the ${perl:Depends} generated by
       dh_perl(1).  You can choose not to use any of these, if debhelper's
       guesses don't match reality.


[EDIT] oh, see man dh_makeshlibs too

---

