---
title: ".deb package and automatic installation of dependencies."
date: 2009-01-03
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by moma on 2009-01-03
Hello,

I have created a .deb package for my gscreendump program. The building of package seems to be ok, but when I run it, it fails to install any depending packages/libraries.

How to make all dependencies to be automatically installed with the program itself?

This is what happens:
$ sudo dpkg -i gscreendump_0.1_amd64.deb 

Selecting previously deselected package gscreendump.
(Reading database ... 116499 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking gscreendump (from gscreendump_0.1_amd64.deb) ...
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of gscreendump:
 gscreendump depends on libgtkimageview0 (>= 1.6.1); however:
  Package libgtkimageview0 is not installed.
 gscreendump depends on imagemagick; however:
  Package imagemagick is not installed.
dpkg: error processing gscreendump (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Errors were encountered while processing:
 gscreendump
------------------

I have to run "sudo apt-get install -f" afterwards to rectify bad package database. Then everything is OK and gscreendump runs well.

The Depends line in debian/control file looks like this:
Depends: ${shlibs: Depends}, imagemagick, gnome-web-photo

Here is my current (test) source
[http://www.edbl.no/tmp/gscreendump_0.1.tar.gz](http://www.edbl.no/tmp/gscreendump_0.1.tar.gz)
----------

2) Setting up a menu item or icon.
How to make .deb package to setup menuitem or icon? The package already contains a gscreendump.desktop file.

---

### Post by moma on 2009-01-04
[COLOR="Red"]Bump[/COLOR] [COLOR="Red"]Bump *1002[/COLOR]

---

### Post by moma on 2009-01-04
Hello,

It seems to me that a Debian/Ubuntu packages shall not manage dependencies automatically when they are installed from command line via 
[COLOR="Green"]dpkg -i packagename.deb.   [/COLOR]

But Apt (or Aptitude) that is used by Synaptic and apt-get commands will and shall install all dependencies automatically. These commands have also access to repositories while Dpkg is standing on its own.

[COLOR="Red"]Uma pergunta/Question:[/COLOR] Can I use "debian/preinst" script to install missing packages?
Where are you?
Wake up people! Holidays are over.  

See also: [http://code.google.com/p/gscreendump/](http://code.google.com/p/gscreendump/)

---

### Post by Flimm on 2009-01-07
> **moma said:**
> Hello,

It seems to me that a Debian/Ubuntu packages shall not manage dependencies automatically when they are installed from command line via 
[COLOR="Green"]dpkg -i packagename.deb.   [/COLOR]
I'm pretty sure dpkg -i doesn't install dependencies automatically, try using gdebi or gdebi-gtk.

---

