---
title: ".deb refuses to create a menu item"
date: 2011-01-18
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by JanBart on 2011-01-18
Hello,

I wrote [a little program]("https://code.google.com/p/woordjes/") and an installer(.deb) for it.
The installer does its job excellently and after running the installer, the program is installed.

However, there are two things that refuse to work.

A) Although the Woordjes.desktop file is copied into /usr/share/applications and when clicking it, it starts the program; the menu-item itself is not showing up in the main menu.

B) I'm running the debuild script to make the installer on a AMD64 pc. I found out i'll have to use a i386 pc to make it installable on a i386 pc although I coded that it should work on "all" systems.

My Woordjes.desktop file:


```
[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Type=Application
Comment=Practice your vocabulary!
Comment[en_US]=Practice your vocabulary!
Exec=java -jar /usr/share/woordjes/Woordjes.jar
Icon=/usr/share/woordjes/icon.xpm
Icon[en_US]=/usr/share/woordjes/icon.xpm
Name=Woordjes
Name[en_US]=Woordjes
```

What am I doing wrong?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by gmargo on 2011-01-19
Do you have the **python-gmenu** package installed?  It is this package's postinst script that is triggered when something is installed by the packaging system to /usr/share/applications/.  It refreshes the file /usr/share/applications/desktop.en_US.utf8.cache which is used to generate the gnome menu.

---

### Post by JanBart on 2011-01-19
First of all: Thanks for answering this question.:D

The file /usr/share/applications/desktop.en_US.utf8.cache was updated after running the installer.

This is what I found in desktop.en_US.utf8.cache

```

[Woordjes]
Name=Woordjes
Comment=Practice your vocabulary!
Icon=/usr/share/woordjes/icon.xpm
Exec=java -jar /usr/share/woordjes/Woordjes.jar
Type=Application

```


To be sure python-gmenu was installed I runned:

```
$sudo apt-get install python-gmenu
```

But that told me "python-gmenu" was already installed (as I suspected) 
 

But still no menu-item is visible in the main menu.
Then I installed some random program (Blinken) and a menu-item (only Blinken offcours) appeared.

So there's nothing wrong with my menu itself I think :-)

---

### Post by gmargo on 2011-01-19
I installed it on my 32-bit gnome laptop, and found that there is no .desktop file included in the i386 .deb.  (And the filename is weird.)


Your .desktop file does not have a Categories entry, while all the other .desktop files seem to.  Perhaps you need to add a Categories entry?  Isn't that what controls the menu location?

---

### Post by JanBart on 2011-01-19
I added categories (just copied the categories from an existing, and working, .desktop file ) rebuilded the 32-bit installer and tested it on my 32 bit laptop with Ubuntu 10.04 installed.

There's still no menu-item, but in the directory /usr/share/applications/ there is a Woordjes.desktop showing up.

What do you mean with "The filename is weird"? 


I added the rebuilded installer on the downloadlist: [http://code.google.com/p/woordjes/downloads](http://code.google.com/p/woordjes/downloads)

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2011-01-19
Hi, it looks like you're using non standard categories 
See [http://standards.freedesktop.org/menu-spec/menu-spec-1.0.html#category-registry](http://standards.freedesktop.org/menu-spec/menu-spec-1.0.html#category-registry)

If you change it to Categories=Utility you should see it show up in Accessories. Obviously you could add others too. At the moment the menu can't guess where to put your menu item. You can create your own categories but it sort of defeats the purpose a bit i'd think.

> [Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Type=Application
Comment=Practice your vocabulary!
Comment[en_US]=Practice your vocabulary!
Exec=java -jar /usr/share/woordjes/Woordjes.jar
Icon=/usr/share/woordjes/icon.xpm
Icon[en_US]=/usr/share/woordjes/icon.xpm
Name=Woordjes
Name[en_US]=Woordjes
Categories=Utility;


[EDIT] Just to note, by non standard i mean 'Settings' will probably stick it in System->Preferences, not what you want for the app type you have

---

### Post by gmargo on 2011-01-19
> **JanBart said:**
> 
What do you mean with "The filename is weird"? 


The filename of the i386 package was "Woordjes 7.1_i386.deb" - a capital letter and an embedded space.

---

### Post by JanBart on 2011-01-20
Changing the category to a standard category did the trick.
It now shows up in the menu item.

Sometimes the easiest problems are the hardest to find. :oops: ;-)

Thanks gmargo and SevenMachines for looking after this!

---

### Post by JanBart on 2011-01-20
> **gmargo said:**
> "Woordjes 7.1_i386.deb" - a capital letter and an embedded space.

I fixed this and named the file "woordjes-7.1-i386.deb" ;)

---

