---
title: "Need hand-holding for first deb package creation..."
date: 2010-07-04
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by J V on 2010-07-04
I'm packaging my first program in an attempt to reach a larger audience, and seeing as it's a big new release...

([APGUI]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/apgui/") for those of you who are interested)

Anyway, I don't understand any of these guides, I have a basic idea but...

Yeah, I need some help.

I have a control file:
```
Package: apgui
Version: 0.3
Section: admin 
Priority: optional
Architecture: all
Depends: apg, python-gtk2, yelp | khelpcenter
Installed-Size: 116
Maintainer: ********** <*******>
Description: APGUI is a frontend for the "Automated password generator"

APG can securely create multiple passwords with specific settings, this GUI was created to increase usability for non-CLI capable users
```And I have my freshly completed source code in a .tar.gz...

What now?

(I also need to figure out how to make it give me a menu item, and how to put a link in /usr/bin rather than a bash script...)

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-07-05
Is there any specific area you're struggling with? How far the [python packaging guide]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Python") have you got? if you have a setup.py file then you can have a simple rules file like

debian/rules:
> #!/usr/bin/make -f

DEB_PYTHON_SYSTEM=pysupport

include /usr/share/cdbs/1/rules/debhelper.mk
include /usr/share/cdbs/1/class/python-distutils.mk
if not, then you'll need to have something like that in the section ['a sophisticated rules file']("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Python#A%20sophisticated%20rules%20files")
> #!/usr/bin/make -f
%:
        dh $@

override_dh_auto_build:

override_dh_auto_install:you can then have a file 
debian/<mypackagename>.install that contains files you want to install and where, eg
> src/mybinary    /usr/bin/debhelper can also do links automatically, see 'man dh_link', by having a file called debian/<mypackagename>.links containing links to be created, or it will also preserve links in your install, 
eg, if you had something in your source like
src/mybin
src/linktomybin

and something in debian/<mypackagename>.install like
src/mybin    /usr/bin/
src/linktomybin    /usr/bin/

then the link should be checked by dh_link when you run debuild and installed/and or fixed if necessary

---

### Post by J V on 2010-07-05
Ehm... I was thinking of just using standard deb packaging... You know, put the stuff in a tar.gz and have a 'postinst' script to do the link...

Your way seems extremely complicated :/

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-07-05
I think there may be a bit of confusion, the way i described (badly described though it may be:) ) is the 'standard deb packaging'. making a control file and an archive, or even a .deb package isnt a 'debianised' package. if you havent got a debian/ directory and it isnt built with debuild (or similar), it isnt going to be a 'proper' package.

its not as complicated as i made it sound probably, and it only needs to be done once. if you look through the packaging guide link previously and try to follow along you should get the idea, noting the 'sophisticated rules file' points i mentioned earlier

---

### Post by J V on 2010-07-05
I thought I needed to "dpkg --build"?

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-07-05
dpkg --build will build a package from a source tree containing the necessary debian/ directory yes, as will debuild, or dpkg-buildpackage. no matter which way you build the package you still need to create the right files in the debian directory though. control, copyright, changelog, rules are probably the minimum needed to actually create a package of some sort, dh_make will create examples of these for you, which then need editing, often not too much editing though. the python packaging guide can explain it better though. you also might want to look at the [explanation of whats what in the debian directory]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/PackagingOverview") for a bit of an overview if you havent already

---

### Post by J V on 2010-07-05
I read all that was required was control md5sums prerm and postinst

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-07-05
no idea where you'd read that, i'm guessing not in the ubuntu packaging guide or the debian new maintainers guide! no, the hashsum is generated by the build process, postinst, etc are maintainer scripts run after install, post remove etc, they are not really places to make symlinks. The python packaging guide covers what you're looking for, the rules file is the 'Makefile' for the packaging build, you need it!

---

### Post by J V on 2010-07-05
Well seeing as I've been shoved back to square one: Screw this, people can go without a deb package for a while longer... Not like there's ever going to be a half decent guide on this anyway...

---

