---
title: "General guidelines for {C#,Java,Python} wrappers?"
date: 2010-07-23
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by floem on 2010-07-23
Hello everyone,

I've created a PPA for my C++ multitouch development library, libTISCH: 
[https://launchpad.net/~floe/+archive/libtisch/+packages]("https://launchpad.net/%7Efloe/+archive/libtisch/+packages")

This has worked out pretty well so far, however, I'm having some problems with the wrappers for managed languages (C#,Java & Python - auto-generated by SWIG). The wrappers do work as intended, however, I always need to explicitly specify the MONO_PATH, CLASSPATH or PYTHONPATH variables for the wrappers to be found.

Which directories do I need to install the wrappers to so they are found automatically?

Many thanks,
Yours,

Floe

---

### Post by floem on 2010-07-24
Allow me to rephrase my question:

how can I install, e.g., a Python extension from a regular debuild package?
I'd like to avoid having to start from scratch with a full-scale python package...

Right now, my install file looks like this:

debian/libtisch-pyhon.install:

lib/_libtisch.so usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/libtisch/
lib/libtisch.py  usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/libtisch/
share/doc/libtisch/example.py usr/share/doc/libtisch-python/

In particular, I'm confused why the files are not actually installed into the given location, but rather into /usr/share/pyshared and /usr/lib/pyshared. I couldn't find any hint as to how to control this...

Florian

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-07-24
I'm guessing you're using debheper and pycentral? so dh_pycentral is called, which is a good thing as far as i know. I don't know much about python packaging, or packaging in general :), but
$man dh_pycentral
>  dh_pycentral is a debhelper program that will scan your package, detect
       public Python modules and move them in /usr/share/pycentral so that
       python-central can byte-compile those for all supported Python
       versions.  Extensions are kept into the original installation location.one thing though, i'm guessing your install file is missing the the leading '/' in the path to install to, ie
>  share/doc/libtisch/example.py /usr/share/doc/libtisch-python/and not,
>  share/doc/libtisch/example.py usr/share/doc/libtisch-python/

also note from the man page, should this be what you want to do
> Moving the files to the pycentral location can be disabled by setting
       the environment varibale DH_PYCENTRAL to a string containing the string
       nomove.

---

### Post by floem on 2010-07-26
Thanks for the hints - I've used pysupport at first, but now I've switched to pycentral and it seems to work now. Just for the record, I'll summarize what has to be installed:

/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/libtisch.pth
/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/libtisch/libtisch.py
/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/libtisch/_libtisch.so

the libtisch.pth is important: it contains just the string "libtisch" and augments the python path to include the subdir.

Thanks again,
Floe

---

