---
title: "13.04 appears to have a special way with include-paths"
date: 2013-04-28
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by pheppel on 2013-04-28
[COLOR=#3c3c3c]make[1]: Entering directory `/home/r3/Documents/qt/xx/yy/zz'[/COLOR]

 [COLOR=#3c3c3c]icpc -c -O2 -falign-functions=16 -ansi-alias -fstrict-aliasing -w1 -Wcheck -wd654,1572,411,873,1125,2259 -D_REENTRANT -DRLX -DQT_NO_DEBUG -DQT_SQL_LIB -DQT_XML_LIB -DQT_GUI_LIB -DQT_NETWORK_LIB -DQT_CORE_LIB -DQT_SHARED -I/usr/share/qt4/mkspecs/linux-icc-64 -I. -I/usr/include/qt4/QtCore -I/usr/include/qt4/QtNetwork -I/usr/include/qt4/QtGui -I/usr/include/qt4/QtXml -I/usr/include/qt4/QtSql -I/usr/include/qt4 -I.. -I../../rxcommon -I../../rxserver -I../../src/preprocess -I../expressionedit -I../runcontroledit -I../textboxdelegate -I../../thirdparty/qtsnippets -I. -I. -o aa.o aa.cpp[/COLOR]

 [COLOR=#be1414]/usr/include/c++/4.7/utility(70): catastrophic error: cannot open source file "bits/c++config.h"[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#be1414]  #include <bits/c++config.h>[/COLOR]


This is the welcome message that 13.04 gives me.   Has anyone else seen something similar?

---

### Post by YesserLab on 2013-05-10
Yes, I'm suffering with this now
I fix one thing and another comes up

as for your question, after googling for hours I realized that icpc needs/uses g++ headers for some reason
anyway the <bits/c++config.h> file is a g++ specific file that g++ automatically searches for, but not icpc

so just add this to icpc compiler flags:

-I/usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu/c++/4.7/
this is the 64-bit version, 

for 32 use:
-I/usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu/c++/4.7/32/

BUT, this doesn't solve everything. if you try to include <algorithm>
some other problems happen (That I still haven't figured out yet)
and yet other problems if you try including <vector> occur

if anyone knows what's going on here, please help

---

### Post by mnajafi on 2013-05-14
I am suffering from the same thing. I am trying to use the intel compiler for compiling other packages such as HDF5, MPICH2, etc.
How can I set the compiler flag that "YasserLab" said to be used all the times when icpc is called? 

Most of these packages use the ./configure command. Is there anyway to add this flag for the compiler as well?

Thanks

---

### Post by HrBanan on 2013-05-28
You could add /usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu/c++/4.7 to your CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH. So:

export CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH=$CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH:/usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu/c++/4.7

That was what I did, when trying to compile a large project with the intel c++ compiler on Ubuntu 13.04. Seems to work....

---

### Post by miroi on 2013-07-05
Hi,

I have short program helloworld.cpp

```

#include <iostream>
int main() {
std::cout << "Hello, world!" << std::endl;
return 0;
}

```

On my fresh Ubuntu 13.04 (3.8.0-26-generic #38-Ubuntu SMP Mon Jun 17 21:43:33 UTC 2013 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux)

I get upon compilation with Intel compilers (icpc (ICC) 12.1.3 20120212):


```

icpc helloworld.cpp   -I/usr/include/x86_64-linux-gnu/c++/4.7
/usr/include/c++/4.7/ext/atomicity.h(48): error: identifier "__ATOMIC_ACQ_REL" is undefined
    { return __atomic_fetch_add(__mem, __val, __ATOMIC_ACQ_REL); }
                                              ^


/usr/include/c++/4.7/ext/atomicity.h(48): error: identifier "__atomic_fetch_add" is undefined
    { return __atomic_fetch_add(__mem, __val, __ATOMIC_ACQ_REL); }
             ^


/usr/include/c++/4.7/ext/atomicity.h(52): error: identifier "__ATOMIC_ACQ_REL" is undefined
    { __atomic_fetch_add(__mem, __val, __ATOMIC_ACQ_REL); }
                                       ^


/usr/include/c++/4.7/ext/atomicity.h(52): error: identifier "__atomic_fetch_add" is undefined
    { __atomic_fetch_add(__mem, __val, __ATOMIC_ACQ_REL); }
      ^


compilation aborted for helloworld.cpp (code 2)

```



Any help, please ?

Miro

---

### Post by Eugene333 on 2013-07-15
Hi,

On 32bit system I have found 

-I/usr/include/i386-linux-gnu/c++/4.7/

to be the path to work.

---

