---
title: "Link a library in Anjuta"
date: 2010-04-01
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by sprince09 on 2010-04-01
I've recently started using Anjuta as an IDE for my C programmig, having always used text editors, makefiles, and a terminal in the past. Right now my problem is trying to link a library into my project. I can compile and run my program perfectly fine using

```

gcc -o main main.c -l ode
./main

```

Unfortunately, I can't figure out how to get Anjuta to do this for me. The library I'm using, libode.a, is located in the standard /usr/lib/ which the Anjuta documentation says is supposed to be in the linker's search path, but when I run Build->Build Project in Anjuta, I get a bunch of 'undefined reference to so-and-so-function'. The program compiles without any problems (Build->Compile), so I know that it's the linker phase that's messed up.

I've tried to add a 'Target', which I understood to be the thing you use to link to libraries in Anjuta, but adding a target of 'libode.a' didn't change anything. 

Anyway, I guess what I'm wondering is how you are supposed to link to external libraries for C programs with Anjuta... can anyone help me out?

---

### Post by sprince09 on 2010-04-02
Well, I kind of figured it out...

Anjuta doesn't have a GUI method for linking to libraries that don't use the 'pkg-config' interface, which seems to be most libraries :(. Instead, you have to add a couple of lines to the `Makefile.am' that get's autogenerated by Anjuta. For me, I had to add the line:

```


robosim_LDFLAGS = \
    -lode


```

More information can be found here: 

[http://library.gnome.org/users/anjuta-build-tutorial/2.26/library-autotools.html.en#library-autotools-lame](http://library.gnome.org/users/anjuta-build-tutorial/2.26/library-autotools.html.en#library-autotools-lame)

Hope this helps someone... there isn't a lot of info out there for linking non pkg-config libraries into Anjuta.

---

