---
title: "./configure parameter"
date: 2012-11-17
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by yahalimu on 2012-11-17
Firstly apologies if this is a simple proble, I hope it is! 
I'm a newbie to linux so forgive me.

I'm trying to install a package and having problems with one of the dependant libraries.

Firstly, on typing './configure' all goes well **until** the end when it reports:


--

'checking for OpenSSL library (libcrypto.a)... Not found

OpenSSL not found'
Use --with-openssl option to fix this problem'

----

SO after checking I definately have OpenSSL installed I type:

'sudo locate libcrypto.a' 

which returns:

which gives: '/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libcrypto.a'

Easy eh?

SO I then type:

'sudo ./configure --with-openssl=/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu'
(as per the help file)

BUT STILL I get:

'OpenSSL not found
Use --with-openssl option to fix this problem'

No matter what I do its still the same.

PLEASE tell me its a simple syntax error.

Id appreciate any suggestions..

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-11-17
Moved to Packaging and Compiling Programs.

You're probably missing libssl-dev, and possible another -dev package as well. What are you trying to compile? Have you checked the repositories for the program?

---

### Post by yahalimu on 2012-11-21
Many thanks for the reply.
Yes you were correct on both accounts.

It did need libssl-dev and it was indeed available in a repository anyway.

It was a trustedQSL program, a log signing program for radio hams.

Again thanks..

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-11-21
Good, then please mark the thread 'solved'.

---

