---
title: "Programming in C"
date: 2008-11-27
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by slimx3m on 2008-11-27
i don't know if this is the right place to post this, but i am having a problem using eclipse.  i am developing a small app for one of my classes and i am receiving the following error whenever i am trying to create the application.

**java.io.IOException: error 13: Access is denied**

so...... what i want to do is to create an exe file that it could be open in windows.  does anybody knows how this can be done?

thanks for you help in advance.

---

### Post by slimx3m on 2008-11-28
no thoughts?!

---

### Post by meatpan on 2008-11-30
Can you describe the eclipse application?  The title of this thread is 'Programming in C', but the error you are receiving was generated by java.   Did you select the project, then select 'run as...'?

---

### Post by slimx3m on 2008-12-01
yes, the program is in C which is a older version of C++.  and i selected my project and then clicked "run as..." and tried to create an executable but i wasn't able to.

do you know by any chance how i could create an executable?

---

### Post by namegame on 2008-12-01
> **slimx3m said:**
> yes, the program is in C which is a older version of C++.


C isn't an "older version" of C++. If that were so, there would not be so many C-programmers.

Although similar, C and C++ are two separate entities. It's more accurate to say that C++ is based on C. Neither is better than the other in general, however each language is excellent for various reasons.

I just thought I would try to clarify this common misconception.

---

