---
title: ".deb file for Ubuntu"
date: 2011-09-22
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by britseye on 2011-09-22
Three questions about making a .deb package.

1) I have a .deb file that passes lintian except for one warning:

manpage-has-bad-whatis-entry

I can't find anything wrong with the manpage text as decribed by the lintian documentation, or by looking at other peoples manpage files. It reads:

.SH NAME
compo /- Manpage stub

and the manpage works.

2) When I open this .deb with the Ubuntu Software Center, it makes no comment on validity, but after install it shows 'reinstall' rather than 'remove'.

3) After install, there is nothing in the Applications menu, though I can add it manually. I know there is something missing from the package, but I can't find a clear description of what I need to do.

Suggestions please.

Thanks
Steve

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2011-09-22
> 1) I have a .deb file that passes lintian except for one warning:

manpage-has-bad-whatis-entryThe lintian tags site at debian is really good for these problems
[http://lintian.debian.org/tags/manpage-has-bad-whatis-entry.html](http://lintian.debian.org/tags/manpage-has-bad-whatis-entry.html)

> .SH NAME
compo /- Manpage stub
Do you not mean \-

> 
2) When I open this .deb with the Ubuntu Software Center, it makes no comment on validity, but after install it shows 'reinstall' rather than 'remove'.Sounds like its installed, software centre isnt designed for much giving of information though, use
$ dpkg -i <mypackage.deb>
$ dpkg -L <mypackage.deb>

> 3) After install, there is nothing in the Applications menu, though I can add it manually. I know there is something missing from the package, but I can't find a clear description of what I need to do.
 You need a .desktop file, look in /usr/share/applications for examples.
[http://standards.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/latest/](http://standards.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/latest/)

---

### Post by britseye on 2011-09-24
Thanks ever so. I could have sat and looked at the wrong way round slash forever! The other points also got me there very quickly.

So now I have a .deb that is lintian squeaky clean, and puts my software in the menu system where I expect it to be.

But The USC still gives me the re-install message when if is finished, says it has basically no information about the package - e.g. no license information. And the application is not listed in 'Installed Software, so the no-terminal user does not have a way to remove it.

Do I need to add more to the .deb, or register a mime-type separately or something?

Thanks again, Steve

---

### Post by .... on 2011-09-24
> 
But The USC still gives me the re-install message when if is finished,  says it has basically no information about the package - e.g. no license  information. And the application is not listed in 'Installed Software,  so the no-terminal user does not have a way to remove it.
Does Synaptic have the same issues? If not, it's more likely to be a USC bug.

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2011-09-24
Try using dpkg to install first, the software centre is a shiny app store, with dpkg you'll see more detail. If your package in a ppa or something or can be uploaded then that would be easier to see any issues

---

### Post by britseye on 2011-09-26
I've tried dpkg after -r and -P. The application is still not listed as installed in the Ubuntu Software Center. But even after -P, dpkg seems to be still aware of the package.

You can find the .deb file at [http://britseyeview.com/software/compo/compo_0.1-1_i386.deb](http://britseyeview.com/software/compo/compo_0.1-1_i386.deb)

There's a description index.html in the same directory.

Thanks Steve

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2011-09-27
Certainly seems to be just an issue with the software centre only rather than the package system overall. Are you also installing this 32bit app on a 64bit system? I only guess since I see a lib32 in the package. If so I'd check to see if you get the same result on i386, multi-arch changes haven't all filtered through yet (it'll be enabled by default in 11.10), maybe software centre is multi-arch aware yet?

---

