---
title: "0.1.1 Is Newer Version Than 0.1.1~ppa1~lucid1?"
date: 2010-06-10
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by roadkillbunny on 2010-06-10
Hello,

I have a package in a PPA that I've created for Ubuntu Karmic, but now I want to create a new package for Ubuntu Lucid. 

There have been no changes in the source code, so according to the [Launchpad PPA documentation](https://help.launchpad.net/Packaging/PPA/Uploading), all I should do is reupload the package but append a tag ~lucid1 to the end instead.

There are two packages that I had to do this for: python-xrandr and autorotate. autorotate depends on python-xrandr.

Anyways, I've reuploaded the two packages with ~lucid1 appended at the end and let them build (successfully). However after I add the PPA and try to install the autorotate package, I get the following error:
```
  autorotate: Depends: python-xrandr (>= 0.1.1) but 0.1.1~ppa1~lucid1 is installed.
```
How some appending the ~lucid1 tag made the deb version smaller?

My PPA can be found here:
[https://launchpad.net/~kkrizka/+archive/thinkpad-x61t?field.series_filter=lucid](https://launchpad.net/~kkrizka/+archive/thinkpad-x61t?field.series_filter=lucid)

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-06-10
from 'man deb-version'
>   The lexical comparison is a comparison of  ASCII values modified so that all the letters sort earlier than all the non-letters and so that  a  tilde sorts  before  anything, even the end of a part.  For example, the following parts  are in sorted order: '~~', '~~a',  '~',  the  empty  part, 'a'.a statement that confuses me more than it illuminates :) the key bit is ' a  tilde sorts  before  anything, even the end of a part'. The upshot of that is that if you stick a tilde on the end then that makes the version earlier, ie for a version 1.1 of a package
1.1~1 < 1.1 

with ppa's this can be handy, say for instance you have some package in the ubuntu main repository with version 1.1-2ubuntu3 that you want to change. you could upload a ppa version 1.1-2ubuntu4~mychanges. this is higher than the repository version so the package will be upgraded. but due to the tilde's sorting properties
1.1-2ubuntu3 < 1.1-2ubuntu4~mychanges < 1.1-2ubuntu4
which means that if a new version is uploaded to the main repository your package will be upgraded to that, often what you want , though not always

---

### Post by roadkillbunny on 2010-06-11
Ah, thank you for the information.

---

