---
title: ".deb - Home directory"
date: 2010-06-29
forum: Packaging and Compiling Programs
---

### Post by Tahakki on 2010-06-29
How do I set up a .deb so that stuff can be installed into, for example, ~/.application?

---

### Post by sgosnell on 2010-06-29
Just install it, but don't use sudo.  Try reading the man page for dpkg for more information, particularly the --instdir=dir option.

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-06-29
> **Tahakki said:**
> How do I set up a .deb so that stuff can be installed into, for example, ~/.application?

Erm... What exactly are you wanting to install? As looks to me that your ignorance is suggesting that you aim to make a deb package that installs something in ~/ - however, contrary to general ignorance, this is a very wrong way to go about it, and there is almost certainly a better, more scalable way of achieving what you want to accomplish. :)

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2010-06-29
Not to mention that it's generally considered rude to put something into a user's home dir. It's akin to your landlord going into your house and randomly storing stuff there.

---

### Post by sgosnell on 2010-06-29
The last two posts are true, but I was assuming the OP wanted to install a .deb file in his own home directory.  I can see situations where one would want to do that, instead of installing to system folders, for a number of reasons.  If my assumption was wrong, then I would agree that installing .deb files into other people's home directories is a bad idea.

---

### Post by Tahakki on 2010-06-30
The program I have generates files - I want somewhere to store these that is different for each user. I've seen other programs do it with a hidden file in the user's home directory.

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-06-30
> **Tahakki said:**
> The program I have generates files - I want somewhere to store these that is different for each user. I've seen other programs do it with a hidden file in the user's home directory.

Then the files can be generated **when** the user runs the program then. Never before.

---

### Post by sgosnell on 2010-06-30
That's pretty standard.  Just make the directory at the install, and the files can be written as they are generated.  Practically every app does that.  It should be easy to make the directory and write the files, because the users own their home directories, and can always modify and write to them.  We obviously misunderstood your original question, thinking you wanted to install the program there, not just write data.  That's what the user's home directory is for, holding data and configuration files.  It shouldn't require anything special other than making the directory, and that can be done with the install script.

---

### Post by Penguin Guy on 2010-06-30
> **Tahakki said:**
> The program I have generates files - I want somewhere to store these that is different for each user. I've seen other programs do it with a hidden file in the user's home directory.
I don't know about everyone else, but I'm confused. Could you post this program?

---

### Post by sgosnell on 2010-06-30
Most apps generate files of some sort, either configuration or data files, or both.  They usually are stored in hidden folders in the user's home directory.  I think I have a directory for almost every package I've installed, either individually or in collective folders such as .local or .gnome.  What the OP is proposing is pretty standard, it's just his original question that was somewhat confusing.

---

### Post by Umang on 2010-07-04
Theoretically, it is problematic to expect a package to fiddle with things inside the /home/* directories, because these things change. People can add and remove new users after the installation. A .deb package, when installed can run some code (whatever that may be). BUT how can you expect it to make changes to user directories AFTER the installation, if admin decides to changes users? 

To complicate things further, you cannot even rely on default files in a new account, because those aren't put into the home directories for users whose home directories already exist while creating the user. This often happens when people use a separate partition for their /home directory and then do a fresh installation of Ubuntu/Debian/etc.

It is far better, like everyone here has mentioned, to have your program create this directory if it isn't already created.

---

### Post by mcphargus on 2010-07-04
If you include it in the .deb, and it gets installed on a server with lots of users, and every users home directory is suddenly amended to, you could cause a freespace issue, so as the others are saying, it's best to let the application create config files at runtime.

---

### Post by Tahakki on 2010-07-04
Gotcha. Thanks, chaps.

---

