---
title: "e17"
date: 2005-09-12
forum: Requests
---

### Post by oceanelement on 2005-09-12
Hello,

Is it possible to backport enlightenment version 17? Version 16 is available, but the newer version is what most people on the forums want. One ubuntu user was able to successfuly make an e17 program install correctly via synaptic, but he has left for another distro about a month ago. Ever since then many users have attempted to create what he did and no one has had the same results as the previous user. If you could do this it would be great =)

Thanks

Oceanelement

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-09-12
[QUOTE=oceanelement]Hello,

Is it possible to backport enlightenment version 17? Version 16 is available, but the newer version is what most people on the forums want. One ubuntu user was able to successfuly make an e17 program install correctly via synaptic, but he has left for another distro about a month ago. Ever since then many users have attempted to create what he did and no one has had the same results as the previous user. If you could do this it would be great =)

Thanks

Oceanelement[/QUOTE]

Is there source debs somewhere?

---

### Post by evilmrt on 2005-09-12
I second the request for e17. I think what we might need is an extra ubuntu repository....rather, an unofficial one. Backports will never have anything thats not in Breezy (or the next version), right? 

Anyway, Fedora has e17 ready to install, why can't we?

---

### Post by SFN on 2005-09-12
[QUOTE=poofyhairguy]Is there source debs somewhere?[/QUOTE]

Is this what you are looking for?

deb-src [http://soulmachine.net/debian](http://soulmachine.net/debian) unstable/

---

### Post by oceanelement on 2005-09-15
In addition enlightenment is faster than metacity. Good looks with speed is something that I don't believe any distro would want to let by. 

my two bits

Oceanelement

---

### Post by vrln on 2005-09-16
I would also vote for this. I'm currently switching to Ubuntu, and it would be great to have a stable semi-official source of regularly updated E17 packages. E17 is pretty popular these days, I believe this would even make some people switch to this distribution.

---

### Post by Gibbz on 2005-09-16
woudl love to see this for ubuntu :)

---

### Post by aledie on 2005-09-18
[QUOTE=poofyhairguy]Is there source debs somewhere?[/QUOTE]

Elive - Distro based on debian and Enlightenment, has always the latest e17 debs.
deb [http://www.vobcopy.org/mirror/elive/](http://www.vobcopy.org/mirror/elive/) elive main efl elive
--> [http://www.vobcopy.org/mirror/elive/pool/efl/e/e17/e17_cvs20050907_i386.deb](http://www.vobcopy.org/mirror/elive/pool/efl/e/e17/e17_cvs20050907_i386.deb)

---

### Post by Chareos on 2005-09-18
[QUOTE=SFN]Is this what you are looking for?

deb-src [http://soulmachine.net/debian](http://soulmachine.net/debian) unstable/[/QUOTE]



Anyone tried this ?
(does it needs gnome installed ? I'm on kubuntu)

---

### Post by bvc on 2005-09-18
I vote yes as well. I have cvs but easy debs would be great for people to give e17 a try! Personally I love it!

---

### Post by argux on 2005-09-18
[QUOTE=Chareos]Anyone tried this ?
(does it needs gnome installed ? I'm on kubuntu)[/QUOTE]

I have tried this mirror:

deb [http://ubuntu.nooms.de/](http://ubuntu.nooms.de/) hoary/

I tried e17 a bit, and thought it  promises, I haven't had much luck. Too unstable for my tastes. I use xfce4, which is sort of a middle point between gnome and the lightest of the lightest in window managers, but still has a few "lackings" that bother me.

Enlightenment 16, too, had a few problems that caused me not to keep using it, though I don't remember what they were...

You might want to try it and see for yourself. I've heard of people who use it as their default Window Manager. I suppose Your Mileage May Vary.

---

### Post by Chareos on 2005-09-18
Argux, do you think may be possible to use E17 with KDE keeping E17 iconbox and dockbar ?

---

### Post by Tab on 2005-09-18
Elive's debs work fine on Ubuntu at the moment, although another native repository like Smoon's would be more than welcome and probably a better bet in the long run. That said, E17 really is still pretty immature, and, despite being generally usable, still has a long way to go. I'd suggest it be considered for inclusion in 6.04, although there's no telling what state of development it will be in by then. For now Ubuntu users can rely on the Elive repo.

---

### Post by knappen on 2005-09-18
e17 gets my vote.

---

### Post by argux on 2005-09-18
[QUOTE=Chareos]Argux, do you think may be possible to use E17 with KDE keeping E17 iconbox and dockbar ?[/QUOTE]

I think so. As far as I know, you can replace kwin (kde's window manager) with something else, and I think it is possible with DR16 (I think I once tried it with gnome), but due to DR17's instabilities and the fact that it is a major rewrite makes me wonder whether it is possible right now. You might try if you wish, as I doubt it will break anything beyond repair, but I really don't know what might happen.

---

### Post by argux on 2005-09-18
OK, I found this link

[http://ktown.kde.org/~seli/kdewm/](http://ktown.kde.org/~seli/kdewm/) 

It gives instructions on changing kde's window manager. It's a bit outdated, but it should still apply. You could try this with e17 and see what happens. I'd do it too, but I no longer have kde installed.

---

### Post by papabean on 2005-09-18
[QUOTE=oceanelement]... Is it possible to backport enlightenment version 17? ...[/QUOTE]

Just another vote to get e17 backported.  I'm currently trying to compile it all per the [freedesktop.org](http://enlightenment.freedesktop.org) instructions.  If I knew even the first thing about developing Ubuntu packages, I'd try building those myself.  First, I think I'll just get it installed.

e17 is the best eye-candy available for Linux.  It even makes my Apple friends turn their heads.  :wink:

---

### Post by vladuz976 on 2005-09-19
[QUOTE=oceanelement]Hello,

Is it possible to backport enlightenment version 17? Version 16 is available, but the newer version is what most people on the forums want. One ubuntu user was able to successfuly make an e17 program install correctly via synaptic, but he has left for another distro about a month ago. Ever since then many users have attempted to create what he did and no one has had the same results as the previous user. If you could do this it would be great =)

Thanks

Oceanelement[/QUOTE]


having that would be great!

---

### Post by vrln on 2005-09-19
[QUOTE=Tab]Elive's debs work fine on Ubuntu at the moment, although another native repository like Smoon's would be more than welcome and probably a better bet in the long run. That said, E17 really is still pretty immature, and, despite being generally usable, still has a long way to go. I'd suggest it be considered for inclusion in 6.04, although there's no telling what state of development it will be in by then. For now Ubuntu users can rely on the Elive repo.[/QUOTE]

I'm fully aware of that, but I think your missing the point. First of all, Smoom's repository will no longer be online soon (and it won't have updated at all - he switched to another distribution) - so for all that matters, it doesn't exist anymore. Even if it did, it would not replace the idea of this thread.

Secondly, as for the Elive deb-repository, yes - it might work even if the packages actually built for Debian Sid. It is not, however, a fully Ubuntu native repository and its packages are not compiled as "backports" against Ubuntu. It's also a third party repository - the point of this thread is to ask for semi-official packages. What this thread is about is non-supported packages (E17 is still in development of course) on official repositories (since the backports repository is official now). The main differences here are a.) the packages would be "semi-official", b.) the packages would be available from a secure and stable source (the Ubuntu mirrors), c.) the packages would be compiled with Ubuntu's build system against a native Ubuntu system and d.) these packages would be updated regularly (every week or two for example).

As for the inclusion comment, that is not really related to the point of this thread. This thread isn't about requesting supported packages of the development version of E17 to main (or even a final version), this is about requesting unsupported, community maintained, but "semi-official" native Ubuntu .debs that are updated every week or two, and hosted on the Ubuntu backports mirrors. I've been following E development for quite a while, and I seriously doubt we will see a stable E17 version anytime soon. That said, this doesn't mean we have to wait until it is actually stable in the "official" sense - many people, me included, have used E17 as the only window manager for a very long time already. While it is still in development, it is arguably already usable, depending on how you define the words. Calling E17 immature is slightly misleading, that word carries a lot of weight. The current development version is not "stable and ready" of course, but I wouldn't call it immature either - this all depends on what you compare it with though. If compared to Gnome, sure, but I doubt that's what E even wants to be like.

Third party repositories, while useful, are not really the solution to this, since the entire idea of this thread is something completely different.

That said, there are many CVS scripts that work perfectly in Ubuntu (and on other distributions too of course) - but that doesn't mean these packages, if accepted, wouldn't be quite popular. It would also bring something "unique" to Ubuntu, since not that many distributions currently include the E17 development version.

---

### Post by dlpfmVfH on 2005-09-19
[QUOTE=Chareos]Anyone tried this ?
(does it needs gnome installed ? I'm on kubuntu)[/QUOTE]

I tried shadoi repo...but it won't run...can install some packages but it won't install everything because of libxine dependency...

I would love to have Enlightenment 17 in a ubuntu repo...

I will vote yes when E17 enters Breezy or in Backports...

The look and feel of enlightenment is fast and beautiful

maybe it's the eyecandy ubuntu needs

---

### Post by darkmatter on 2005-09-28
Count me in. E owns me!!!;)

---

### Post by ltmon on 2005-09-28
For those who just want to try out enlightenment, without having to bother with debs and installs and the like you should see this:

[http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/1490](http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/1490)

It worked fantastically for me: a beautiful E17 desktop in one quick download with no configuration required :)

---

### Post by darkmatter on 2005-09-28
[QUOTE=ltmon]For those who just want to try out enlightenment, without having to bother with debs and installs and the like you should see this:

[http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/1490](http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/1490)

It worked fantastically for me: a beautiful E17 desktop in one quick download with no configuration required :)[/QUOTE]

The klik version is nice, but the point is that many users (like myself) actually build systems that are tailored to the needs of the individual (low RAM, etc.), which is where .debs come in.

Though I don't have a problem building from scratch, compiling software does take time, and many of us have other responsibilities to attend to.;)

---

### Post by evilmrt on 2005-09-30
we want e17! we want e17! :D

*ahem* we want e17 in ubuntu, thank you.

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-09-30
not to make anyone sad.....but this is the kind of thing that won't happen until someone outside the backport circle actually does it. The backport gang is more of a "make a backport once" kind of people, and yall want "backport E17 for me every week." E17 is the kind of thing backports will touch when its released and doesn't need to be constantly updated.

---

### Post by darkmatter on 2005-09-30
Who said anything about updating packages weekly?

People who are determined to have the latest CVS are C-R-A-Z-Y.

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-09-30
[QUOTE=darkmatter]Who said anything about updating packages weekly?
[/QUOTE]

Ok cool. All we need to find then is a Sid repo with E17 in it for the backporters to work with.

---

### Post by nihilist13 on 2005-10-03
on vote from me to E17...
e17 is the greatest wm i've ever seen, please give us .debs:D

---

### Post by oceanelement on 2005-10-04
[QUOTE=poofyhairguy]Ok cool. All we need to find then is a Sid repo with E17 in it for the backporters to work with.[/QUOTE]

Ok, I would be willing to look around for it, but what exactly is a Sid repo? If e17 does get backported will it work for Breezy? I want to upgrade, but saying good bye to e17 is not possible for me. 

Oceanelement

---

### Post by darkmatter on 2005-10-04
[QUOTE=oceanelement]Ok, I would be willing to look around for it, but what exactly is a Sid repo?[/QUOTE]

Sid is Debian unstable (which Ubuntu is based on).

By using packages/sources from an E 17 build for Sid, it will allow for easier development of packages for Breezy.

If that makes any sense. Just got up, brain is still fuzzy

---

### Post by Nattydraddy on 2005-10-04
:mad: Hey, as you say E17 is still in CVS. From E17 you can´t find a Alpha or even a Beta Version. So noone will build a Package with E17.

Also from KDE 3.5 was a .deb Package only avaible as it was in Beta.

---

