---
title: "32 or 64 bit"
date: 2010-04-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by swotie on 2010-04-24
When I was in my bios, I saw my cpu's (intel quad core q8200 2,33 Ghz) are 64 bit ... I run ubuntu 32 bit version ... will it be better to run the 64 bit version ?

---

### Post by akand074 on 2010-04-24
> **swotie said:**
> When I was in my bios, I saw my cpu's (intel quad core q8200 2,33 Ghz) are 64 bit ... I run ubuntu version 32 bit ... will it be better to run the 64 bit version ?

Yes. 64 bit OS is much more efficient when it comes to RAM. You'll get a slight performance increase. And necessary if your using 4GB of ram or more to fully utilize it. Do a clean install of Ubuntu 10.04 64 Bit when its released on thursday.

---

### Post by swotie on 2010-04-24
okay .. thanks ... you are wright with the ram ... ubuntu says only 3,1 GB and I have 4 GB ... are the user interface the same in the 32 bit's and the 64 bit's version ?

---

### Post by akand074 on 2010-04-24
> **swotie said:**
> okay .. thanks ... you are wright with the ram ... ubuntu says only 3,1 GB and I have 4 GB ... are the user interface the same in the 32 bit's and the 64 bit's version ?

Yes the user interface is the exact same you won't even notice the difference.

---

### Post by swotie on 2010-04-24
thanks ... I will try the 64 bit version

---

### Post by catcanthascheezburgerhaha on 2010-04-24
64 bit Flash is still a bit flaky.

---

### Post by dalee on 2010-04-24
Hi,

There are some that have trouble with flash, but I haven't since Intrepid. Karmic and a clean install of Lucid have provided easy, working flash for me. Even Intrepid wasn't bad. I just needed to switch to Adobe's version rather than use Gnash.  catcanthascheezburgerhaha is right though, mileage can still vary for some users.

Still, I think 64bit is worth the possible hassle.

dalee

---

### Post by taurolyon on 2010-04-25
I'm using the 64 bit flash - [http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10.html](http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10.html)

Newgrounds, Youtube, facebook apps - all work!! The only problem I encounterd was Hulu not being able to stream (guess they flagged it because it wouldn't play the ads, hehe!).

---

### Post by swotie on 2010-04-29
Quote:

Originally Posted by swotie View Post

When I was in my bios, I saw my cpu's (intel quad core q8200 2,33 Ghz) are 64 bit ... I run ubuntu version 32 bit ... will it be better to run the 64 bit version ?

Yes. 64 bit OS is much more efficient when it comes to RAM. You'll get a slight performance increase. And necessary if your using 4GB of ram or more to fully utilize it. Do a clean install of Ubuntu 10.04 64 Bit when its released on thursday.

**Is the 64 bit version only for AMD ... not for intel 64 bit processor ?**

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2010-04-29
> **swotie said:**
> When I was in my bios, I saw my cpu's (intel quad core q8200 2,33 Ghz) are 64 bit ... I run ubuntu 32 bit version ... will it be better to run the 64 bit version ?

Yes! It's better able to utilize the tech.

---

