---
title: "nvidia geforce 8200 fried by kernel updates"
date: 2008-10-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by grafixbadnow on 2008-10-17
I'm very new to Ubuntu, so apologies if I don't speak the language yet. I recently installed ubuntu from CD to a new Compaq laptop. The graphics card was not working. After google searches led me to a how-to guide, I eventually downloaded a driver from nvidia.com and installed it. Per the guide, I made a bunch of changes to my system.


Everything was functioning ok up until this week's kernel updates. It seems the updates blew away whatever tweaks I had done. I'm back to 800x600 and nothing I've tried so far has worked. Any help is greatly appreciated.

here's my xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection





sudo modprobe nvidia gives:
FATAL: Could not open '/lib/modules/2.6.24-21-generic/volatile/nvidia.ko': No such file or directory










sudo lspci
00:00.0 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] Memory Controller (rev a2)
00:01.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation Unknown device 075e (rev a2)
00:01.1 SMBus: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] SMBus (rev a1)
00:01.3 Co-processor: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] Co-Processor (rev a2)
00:01.4 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] Memory Controller (rev a1)
00:02.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] OHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev a1)
00:02.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev a1)
00:04.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] OHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev a1)
00:04.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev a1)
00:06.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] IDE (rev a1)
00:07.0 Audio device: nVidia Corporation Unknown device 0774 (rev a1)
00:08.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] PCI Bridge (rev a1)
00:09.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation Unknown device 0ad0 (rev a2)
00:0a.0 Ethernet controller: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] Ethernet (rev a2)
00:0b.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:14.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation Unknown device 077a (rev a1)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 11h HyperTransport Configuration (rev 40)
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 11h Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 11h DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 11h Miscellaneous Control
00:18.4 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 11h Link Control
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation Unknown device 0845 (rev a2)
07:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g (rev 01)

---

### Post by taqkavar on 2008-10-17
Yeah, this happens all the time, at from what I have read so far, It is going to be automated in 8.10 ( not sure thought ).

Basically, just redo the first guide you had while you are in the new kernel and re compile the driver.
If you have deleted your driver, either select the older kernel from the grub boot menu, then download it and restart to the new kernel. Or use "links" or "lynx" in command line interface to browse to nvidia's site and download the driver again.
Then proceed to do the same thing again, that means stopping the X server, then sudo sh <driverfile> and following the steps.

---

### Post by Twitch6000 on 2008-10-17
Hey mind linking me to the guide lol I still am having trouble even getting my nvidia geforce 8200 m working with my new laptop :(.

---

### Post by taqkavar on 2008-10-17
this should do the trick:

[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Hardy#Installation_of_ATI_and_nVidia_Graphics_drivers](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Hardy#Installation_of_ATI_and_nVidia_Graphics_drivers)

I have never tried the restricted modules myself. But seems like they are a bit more easier to install and maintain.

---

### Post by grafixbadnow on 2008-10-19
> **taqkavar said:**
> this should do the trick:

[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Hardy#Installation_of_ATI_and_nVidia_Graphics_drivers](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Hardy#Installation_of_ATI_and_nVidia_Graphics_drivers)

I have never tried the restricted modules myself. But seems like they are a bit more easier to install and maintain.



Taq-

I followed the guide you linked. No luck. When I run System>Administration>Nvida Xserver settings, I get an error. I don't think the system knows I'm running nvidia.

---

### Post by aldenhg on 2008-10-19
> **grafixbadnow said:**
> Taq-

I followed the guide you linked. No luck. When I run System>Administration>Nvida Xserver settings, I get an error. I don't think the system knows I'm running nvidia.

Try popping open a terminal and running sudo nvidia-settings so you can tell us what the error is.

---

### Post by grafixbadnow on 2008-10-20
> **aldenhg said:**
> Try popping open a terminal and running sudo nvidia-settings so you can tell us what the error is.

sudo nvidia-settings opens a dialog box with the text: "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server."

I have run nvidia-xconfig. That "clean" xorg.conf is what I pasted in at the very start of the thread.

I hope (really, really, hope) that the 8.1 release makes all these problems go away. I've tried wading through the discussions, but they're a little too technical for my blood. I keep running across conflicting info regarding the Nvidia 73 series drivers, which are the ones I think I need.

---

