---
title: "eMachine E725 (e725-4520)"
date: 2010-03-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by wintersmith on 2010-03-09
This post is being done as a service to others who are looking at laptop compatibility. Format borrowed from [http://www.linux-laptop.net](http://www.linux-laptop.net).

eMachines E725 Laptop

Hardware Components|Status under Linux|Notes
[LIST]
[*]Intel Pentium Dual Core T4400 2.2GHz|Works|No special procedure required during installation.
[*]15.6" LCD Display|Works|Auto-detected in installer
[*]Intel 4500 MHD|Works|Auto-detected correctly during install
[*]3GB DDR3 RAM|Works|No special procedure required during installation
[*]250 GB Western Digital HDD|Works|No special procedure required during installation
[*]Integrated Broadcom Wireless Network Card|Works|Required proprietary Broadcom wireless driver to be installed from Ubuntu 9.10 disc after initial installation of OS
[*]Integrated 10/100 Network Card|Not Tested|None
[*]8X Max DVD-RW Drive|Works|No special procedure required during installation
[*]30 WHr Lithium-Ion Battery|Works|No special procedure required during installation
[*]Integrated Sound Card|Works|No special procedure required during installation
[*]SD Card Reader|Not Tested|None
[/LIST]

Heat Issues: None. Max CPU temperature seen in normal use is 51 degrees Celsius.
Compiz & Emerald Compatibility: Works with Compiz effects and Emerald decorations enabled.
Suspend/Sleep/Hibernate: Working. Laptop resumes correctly from sleep, suspend, and hibernate.
Other Issues: Screen dimming does not work. Ubuntu correctly detects the dimming request, but the screen stays at maximum brightness. The wireless proprietary drivers were working as soon as they were installed but required the separate step of installing them via the synaptic package manager and adding the 9.10 disc to the list of software package sources.

---

### Post by laimigrante on 2010-04-02
thanks 4 the advice! i buy this one to learn linux, that laptop was cheap, i buy the new version of ubuntu, because i notice problems with the wifi card, also notice that i have to change the bios to make the laptop boot from the cd fisrt, because didnt run live cd, did u have problems with the live cd? , so i didnt install 9.04 version, also is most better waiting for the new.

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2010-06-04
Hi, wanted to ask if someone is using this machine with ubuntu 10.04 and how does it work? I am especially interested in noise production. Is cooler fan loud, can it be adjusted with fancontrol etc...

Thanks for answers...

---

### Post by poodoopealeoaph on 2011-04-26
I have this laptop and everything does work fine in 10.04 and 10.10. Well, it has graphics issues in KDE but everything else works great. it's fast for the price and everything runs very smoothly including the sd card reader on the front.

---

