---
title: "Slow touchpad and Intel X4500 graphics: how to fix?"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by softtower on 2008-11-08
I just received Dell Latitude E6500 with an Intel integrated graphics (GM45 chipset AKA X4500HD). I run the latest Ubuntu 8.10 with all updates installed.

Two issues:

First, Compiz is dog slow and scrolling pages in Firefox is unbearable. glxgears reports about 200fps. I have tried both AccelMethod settings in xorg.conf with very little success. My old ThinkPad with Intel X3100 is many times faster (over 1000fps in glxgears).

Since nearly all new laptops have this graphics, I don't believe I am the only one who's facing the issue. Does anyone experience this?

Second, the touchpad. It is very slow and "Mouse settings" in Gnome don't affect it. I have played with xorg.conf as many online posts suggest, but whatever I put in there doesn't make any difference. 

These two issues: super-slow graphics and super-slow touchpad make the laptop pretty much useless for now, although otherwise it's pretty sweet machine. 

Would appreciate any help!
* My uname -r is 2.6.27-7-generic
* I am attaching my xorg below:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
    Driver      "intel"
    Option      "RenderAccel" "true"
    #Option      "AccelMethod" "EXA"
    #Option      "ExaNoComposite"    "false"
    Option      "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
    Option      "EnablePageFlip" "true"
    Option      "AccelMethod" "XAA"
    #Option      "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
   Driver       "synaptics"
   Option       "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
   Option       "Device"                "/dev/input/event10"
   Option       "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
   Option       "MinSpeed"              "0.80"
   Option       "MaxSpeed"              "1.00"
   Option       "AccelFactor"           "0.9"
   Option       "SHMConfig"             "on"
   Option       "Emulate3Buttons"       "on"
EndSection


```

---

### Post by L815 on 2008-11-08
Turning off "smooth scrolling" in the firefox options (Advance tab) gets rid of the slow browsing with compiz.

---

### Post by cdEWoozy on 2008-11-08
Yes, I am also experiencing the graphics problem on my E6400. The window minimizing animations seem to be fine, but the expose effect is dropping many frames. It just looks ugly. Even my five year old machine did that smoothly!
GLXgears reports ~250fps (and the gears are flickering sometimes).

---

### Post by softtower on 2008-11-08
cdEWoozy, try the video settings from xorg.conf I posted above. You'll get slightly better Expose effect performance. FireFox is still slow like a dog. Smooth scrolling, of course, is off - it never worked fast enough on any LInux distro I've tried.

Will be checking this thread every day, I guess the laptop goes back to dell if I don't turn it into a usable state in 2 weeks. What a pity... This thing is beautifully made.

---

### Post by phoenix12345 on 2008-11-15
I also have this problem on my Acer Extensa 5630. I'm using the 2.6.27.5 kernel and have compiled the latest libdrm(2.4.?) and intel driver(2.5.1). Compiz performance is good(all efects work except burn which is slow), but 3D games are slow(3-4 fps in Counter-Strike(with wine), i think not even one frame/sec in modern games like ET:QW and the Prey demo, Quake 4 won't work). 

I hope support for this IGP will come in the future, since it's used by many laptops.

---

### Post by ken487 on 2008-11-20
Maybe this will help.  I was searching for info on the X4500 and came accross this:

> No bug in Xorg, but basically a mixture of bad bios documentation + irritating bios menu entries + pebcak :)

I have 2 entries in my bios for the graphics card memory:

1. Shared Memory
2. DVMT/Fixed Memory

As these are not really documented in the handbook i just set both to 256MB because i have plenty of RAM,
but it seems that "share memory" allocates memory for 2D only and "DVMT/Fixed" Memory is the entire
graphics memory that can be used for 2D and 3D together... The result when setting both to 256mb is that
256mb will be allocated for 2D and nothing is left for 3D, which leads to the Xorg error. Now i have set
"share memory" to 32mb and everything is working properly and damn fast for Intel graphics :)

Original post is here: [http://bugs.archlinux.org/task/11527](http://bugs.archlinux.org/task/11527)

Please let us know if that helps, I'm thinking of getting a thinkpad with X4500 graphics, but I want to be  able to run compiz well.

Ken

---

