---
title: "11.10 on Acer Aspir One 522 not booting for installation: &quot;unsupported WMI interface&quot;"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by casainho on 2011-10-14
I just downloaded fresh new Ubuntu 11.10 (amd_64) and tried to install on my Acer Aspire One 522 but it hangs with message "unsupported WMI interface, unable to load".

I was able to install Ubuntu 11.04 (amd_64) on it however but I always saw that kind of message about WMI on dmesg. I am being using all days the Ubuntu 11.04 (amd_64) on this netbook.

Here is the Ubuntu wiki page for this Acer Aspire One 522: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne522](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne522)

---

### Post by r_howie on 2011-10-14
> **casainho said:**
> I just downloaded fresh new Ubuntu 11.10 (amd_64) and tried to install on my Acer Aspire One 522 but it hangs with message "unsupported WMI interface".

I was able to install Ubuntu 11.04 (amd_64) on it however but I always saw that kind of message about WMI on dmesg. I am being using all days the Ubuntu 11.04 (amd_64) on this netbook.

Here is the Ubuntu wiki page for this Acer Aspire One 522: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne522](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne522)
Hi Casainho,

while I cannot help you with your specific issue, I would like to thank you for sharing your tricks with the community, especially on the wiki page.

I also own an Acer Aspire One 522 (purchased in the UK) and will install Ubuntu 11.10 there soon. So far, I have tried it in live mode and it works (after having set up the [BIOS boot order like this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11315150&postcount=51)). My machine has at least two differences compared to yours:

- WMI says "wmi: Mapper loaded" at boot
- Synaptics touchpad

---

### Post by prince_of_death on 2011-10-14
i have almost the same problem. i have an Acer Aspire One A0751h and i cant get ubuntu to boot to the desktop GUI. i'm stuck in a command line at startup after displaying some error message. 11.04 works fine but not 11.10.

---

### Post by Red_is_Dead on 2011-10-16
I'm also a 522 owner. I have 2 of them 11.04 would freeze at the login prompt and 11.10 won't install as mentioned above.

My model is the 522-BZ465 from March 2011.

Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by casainho on 2011-10-16
> **Red_is_Dead said:**
> I'm also a 522 owner. I have 2 of them 11.04 would freeze at the login prompt (...)

Any help is appreciated.

Yes, please read and improve if possible:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne522](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne522)

---

### Post by r_howie on 2011-10-19
> **r_howie said:**
> 
I also own an Acer Aspire One 522 (purchased in the UK) and will install Ubuntu 11.10 there soon. So far, I have tried it in live mode and it works (after having set up the [BIOS boot order like this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11315150&postcount=51)). 
Update: I wanted to try Ubuntu 11.10 in live mode again (haven't installed it yet) from the same USB pen drive that I used last week to try it successfully, and... this time around it's not working anymore! Oddly, I haven't changed anything on the USB pen or in the machine BIOS in the meantime.

I made sure that Windows 7, which is still present on my AO522, had finished installed its updates, because I read that those could interfere with Linux. Well, Windows 7 is updated and happy, but still no luck with trying Ubuntu live.

To be more specific: I can see the graphical menu with the language selection and the buttons 'Try Ubuntu' and 'Install Ubuntu'. The system remembers the password of my wifi, which I had entered in last week's successful live experiment. However, choosing to 'Install Ubuntu' and waiting for some time, nothing happens (blank screen).

I then entered a terminal with ctrl+alt+F5 and I checked my dmesg for WMI stuff:
```

acer_wmi: Acer Laptop ACPI-WMI Extras
acer_wmi: No or unsupported WMI interface, unable to load

```

Could it be due to the fact that the USB pen drive I am using has only 2GB? (Though I was able to try Ubuntu 11.10 from it a few days ago.) Any other clues?

UPDATE: I have now managed to boot 11.10 amd64 from the USB pen drive. The error "No or unsupported WMI interface, unable to load" is always there, even when Ubuntu starts fine. I believe the two things are not related.

---

### Post by rogue01 on 2011-12-16
> **r_howie said:**
> 
To be more specific: I can see the graphical menu with the language selection and the buttons 'Try Ubuntu' and 'Install Ubuntu'. The system remembers the password of my wifi, which I had entered in last week's successful live experiment. However, choosing to 'Install Ubuntu' and waiting for some time, nothing happens (blank screen).

Could it be due to the fact that the USB pen drive I am using has only 2GB? (Though I was able to try Ubuntu 11.10 from it a few days ago.) Any other clues?


Same there, no clues, but if you want to start gui, you can just install fglrx, which is - in my case - one of missing packages when you try to start x manually by startx.

---

### Post by Judo on 2012-01-31
For those receiving this error in live mode, you could add this to the boot parameters:

```
acer_wmi.blacklist=yes atl1c.blacklist=yes
```

This will blacklist them once install, too.

---

