---
title: "8.10 Asking about Lenovo N500 and Ubuntu compatibility"
date: 2009-03-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-03-17
I have been looking at many laptop brands and have basically decided on the Lenovo 3000 N500. It has all the features I want.
But... I want to delete the Windows Vista and install Ubuntu.
I was hoping someone could enlighten me as to the problems, if any or many, I might face in this attempt, before I lay out the cash for it.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-03-17
If you are talking about [this one]("http://www.pc-4u.co.il/product.asp?productid=1495"), there shouldn't be any major problems. It's not clear what wireless is used, so you might want to call the tech guys at the shop and verify. Usually, Broadcom and Atheros are the ones that don't work out of the box, and Intel 3945ABG is a better choice.
It really sucks you have to buy one with Vista, too bad nobody offers notebook with Linux in Israel.

This one is from google: [http://www.linlap.com/wiki/lenovo+3000+n500](http://www.linlap.com/wiki/lenovo+3000+n500).

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-03-17
Thanks mikewhatever,
The darn thing looks pretty good, I think.

---

### Post by ident4 on 2009-03-18
I'm posting this message from an N500 using 8.10 as a live CD right now (I googled after install and this thread was right at the top).

I'm only visiting Ubuntu right now. Not going for the full install till I have more time.

To get Live CD to work I simply had to hold down F12 during startup to get a menu to boot form other devices (Laptop doesn't boot from CD by default. To change that permanently you would hold down the 'Lenovo Care' button and then go to Advanced, and then you get to change the BIOS and boot order)

When I first tried it I got a blank screen. I had to restart again and select Safe Graphics Mode from the initial Ubuntu screen (I'm not exactly sure what 'Safe Graphics Mode' means. Can I go to a 'normal' mode after install?)
I can watch videos Ok but when I went through the 'Hardware Testing' wizard I could not see the test. I also can't have 'visual effects'. I assume that's because I'm in safe graphics mode?

The wireless is working without a hitch, just gave it my password and here I am using it.

Everything else I've tried works perfectly so far.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-03-18
> **thelugnut said:**
> Thanks mikewhatever,
The darn thing looks pretty good, I think.

Yeah. CPU and graphics are very good, and the price is tempting.


> **ident4 said:**
> 

When I first tried it I got a blank screen. I had to restart again and select Safe Graphics Mode from the initial Ubuntu screen (I'm not exactly sure what 'Safe Graphics Mode' means. Can I go to a 'normal' mode after install?)

Hopefully yes. If you also have an Nvidia 9300m, the nvidia driver from the repositories should support the card and allow whatever mode you wish. If, for some reason, it doesn't work, boot from the cd and ask how to install the driver from CLI.

---

