---
title: "How can I get my bluetooth mouse to connect.."
date: 2008-10-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by zachbb on 2008-10-17
Hello

I just installed Ubuntu (8.04) but my "Microsoft Wireless Notebook Presenter Mouse" won't connect...

It's a bluetooth mouse. Here's what happens:

1. When I right click on the bluetooth icon on the top right, and choose "browse device",  can see "Microsoft Mouse" in the list. When I click connect I get a popup that says:
   "Couldn't display obex://[00:12:5A:65:94:D4]. 
    Error: Host down. Please select another viewer and try again"

2. When I right click on the bluetooth icon on the top right, and choose "preferences -> services", click "input service" and "add", "show all devices", the mouse isn't visable..

Does anyone know how to get this working?

---

### Post by zachbb on 2008-10-17
I fixed it..

In case anyone else has this problem, I'll tell you what I did:

1. I edited this file through the terminal:
gksu gedit /etc/default/bluetooth

and set  HIDD_ENABLED=1

2. I selected "Visible and Connectable for Other Devices" in the bluetooth preferences (in the notification area)

I hope this helps someone!

Zach

---

### Post by zachbb on 2008-10-19
I now have a new problem - I'm hoping someone can help me out with this...

When I rebooted my computer, the mouse wouldn't work. I have tried removing the 'trust' and 'disconnecting' the mouse in the bluetooth preferences, as well as removing it from services, and then reconnecting to the mouse. But that dosen't work.

When I try to connect to the mose, it says:
"connected to Microsoft"
but the mouse won't respond!

What's wrong?

---

### Post by zachbb on 2008-10-19
anyone?

I'm new with linux and I've got to say that I've had no help at all so far from the "community"..

---

### Post by zachbb on 2008-10-23
I have read loads of threads and I still have this problem.. can someone please help me with it?

---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2008-10-23
I don't know a great deal about bluetooth, but it sounds like your mouse is being connected.  I think the command you need is
hciconfig or
hcitool
to see if it's listed.  Do
apropos bluetooth
and
apropos hci
to find the correct command.
man is your friend.

If the mouse isn't listed, you need to enable the bluetooth stack - modprobe the appropriate driver (sorry I don't know what it's called.  hci perhaps?)

Assuming the mouse really is connected, it could be that it is not appearing as the device which X expects.  You will have to edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and find the section relating to the mouse (sorry I can't remember exactly what it's called, I am on winblows at the moment), and change it if it is wrong.  To find out which device your mouse is on, do
cat /dev/<device name> or
cat /dev/input/<device name>
and move the mouse,
where <device name> might be mouse, mice, psaux, event0 to eventx.  It may also be something with bluetooth or hci in the name.  You should be able to write a udev rule to create the same device every time the mouse is connected, but I don't know enough to tell you how to do that!
Anyways, change the entry in xorg.conf to match the device that gives you some output when you move the mouse.
(WARNING - cat-ing a device like this can screw up your console! Be prepared to ctr-alt-Fx.  The mess is temporary though)

Hopefully you can now start X and enjoy the mouseish goodness!

Hope this helps
Alexis

---

### Post by zachbb on 2008-10-23
Thanks for your reply!

I really am a newbie so I'm not sure that I get everything.


When I do hciconfig I get:
```
zach@zach-laptop:~$ hciconfig
hci0:	Type: USB
	BD Address: 00:1C:26:DE:8F:E8 ACL MTU: 1017:8 SCO MTU: 64:8
	UP RUNNING PSCAN ISCAN 
	RX bytes:17033 acl:444 sco:0 events:450 errors:0
	TX bytes:6324 acl:227 sco:0 commands:146 errors:0

```


when I press the button under the mouse, so that the computer can find it, and do hcitoo dev, and hcitool scan, I get:

```
zach@zach-laptop:~$ hcitool scan
Scanning ...
	00:12:5A:65:94:D6	Microsoft

zach@zach-laptop:~$ hcitool dev
Devices:
	hci0	00:1C:26:DE:8F:E8

```

I am not sure what this means..
But presumably, since it has identified the mouse, the bluetooth stack works?


Here is my xorg.conf file:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"fr"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```


in this directory, /dev/input/by-id, I have:
```
zach@zach-laptop:/dev/input/by-id$ ls -la
total 0
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root 100 2008-10-23 13:14 .
drwxr-xr-x 4 root root 440 2008-10-23 13:14 ..
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root   9 2008-10-23 13:14 usb-Broadcom_Corp_4502-event-kbd -> ../event2
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root   9 2008-10-23 13:14 usb-Broadcom_Corp_4503-event-mouse -> ../event3
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root   9 2008-10-23 13:14 usb-Broadcom_Corp_4503-mouse -> ../mouse1

```

I did this but nothing happened:
```
zach@zach-laptop:/dev/input/by-id$ sudo cat usb-Broadcom_Corp_4503-mouse

```

does this make any sense?

---

### Post by zachbb on 2008-10-23
OK I fixed it!!

Thank you for your help!

I used what you said and googled it to find out more and I found this tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=227057](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=227057)

That fixed my problem, and now it connects automatically when I boot!

One thing that I couldnt do in the tutorial is  run 
 user@computer:~$ sudo gedit /etc/default/bluez-utils
It kept saying the command couldn't be found. So I just reinstalled bluez-utils through synaptic instead of running that tool.

Thanks for your help

Zach

---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2008-10-23
Well, your mouse is definitely detected.  It really just boils down to what it is being detected as.

Add the following section to your xorg.conf:
```
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Bluetooth Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"    "True"
	Option		"Device"	"<you have to find device>"
EndSection
```

Also, put the following into the "ServerLayout" section:
```
	Inputdevice	"Bluetooth Mouse"
```

This should be enough to get the mouse working, once you have found it's device node.

I don't think there is a particular driver for bluetooth mice so the standard mouse driver should be okay.

A quick look on Google suggests the Broadcom 4502 and 4503 devices are keyboard and mouse controllers - I presume this has some relevance to your hardware, but can't say whether anything to do with the bluetooth.

When you do the 
```
cat <device>
```
make sure you move/click the mouse, or you will see nothing!
Then do ctrl-c and write the full path of the device you tested, into the device line of your xorg.conf.  I read that some people have had success with /dev/input/event9 - but you must check that this exists!

If all goes well, re-start the X server (ctrl-alt-backspace works just fine - save any work first though!) and test the mouse.

Beyond that, I can't really offer you any more help as I don't own any bluetooth devices apart from a dongle and setting up bluetooth is something of a dark art to me.  This should be enough information to get you going though.

I found a good guide here: [http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/bluetooth-guide.xml](http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/bluetooth-guide.xml) although you might find it a bit "hardcore", it does at least tell you how to use the tools in your kit.

---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2008-10-23
Some more links that might be of use:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=837261](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=837261)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224673](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224673)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/91194](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/91194)

As you can see, there are a few ways people have got their bluetooth mice to work - I hope you find something that works for you!
Alexis

---

### Post by zachbb on 2008-10-23
thanks!

zach

---

