---
title: "8.10 on Acer Aspire One Netbook"
date: 2009-01-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by squashpup on 2009-01-05
Installed 8.10 on my Acer Aspire One Netbook.  I have the 16gb SSD, 1.6 ghz Atom processor, and 1 GB of ram, along with a 512 meg swapfile. 

Everything runs, even Compiz, but I occasionally get random freezes that last for only a second or two.  The machine has never crashed, but the pauses are maddening.  Anyone else have this problem on a netbook or a SSD?  Should I just shut up and live with it since this computer was never intended to run this OS anyway?  

Another thing...I originally installed Xubuntu on this machine, and later went back and installed ubuntu-desktop.  Should I try a straight Ubuntu install?  Is there any difference?  Also, my swap (512 mb) is in a file, not on a partition.  It is rarely touched, however.  I did it this way because I saw where someone said not to put a swap on an SSD, and then later someone said you HAVE to have a swap for some programs to run correctly.

Any advice at all?  I disabled D2D in the bios, and that did seem to make a small difference.  As I type this, the lockup hasn't come once.  Seems to happen mostly when opening programs or webpages, but sometimes when I'm scrolling down a page in Firefox, I get it too.

Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by davemolloy64 on 2009-01-06
I believe I've read elsewhere on this topic that the SSD doesn't take well to any program that writes continually to the drive. It was in an article on nstalling XP located at [http://www.osnews.com/story/20251/Aspire_One_Installing_and_Running_Windows_XP](http://www.osnews.com/story/20251/Aspire_One_Installing_and_Running_Windows_XP) where the author writes:

The next step is tweaking XP to perform well. The problem isn't the processor, the RAM or the video card: it's the SSD. Tweaking is simple: try and make sure that XP does as little hard disk writing as possible. This means disabling paging, prefetch, and write-caching. On top of that, it really pays off to sift through services.msc and disable any service you don't need. Big gains can be made by disabling things like the indexing service. 

I imagine the same problems crop up in Ubuntu. If you read the pages at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne) , you'll notice that they reccomend against using the defalt EXT3 filesystem on an SSD disk- precisely because the more advanced journaling functions require constant acccess. They reccommed EXT2 (which is the same, except without journaling I think).

---

### Post by squashpup on 2009-01-09
Yeah, I'm running ext2 with the noatime option.  What I've found is that the problem seems to occur only while running Firefox.  And, the problem is greatly minimized while running Firefox under Xfce.  I would like to run Gnome, however, as it has several options that Xfce doesn't.  

I also noticed that Opera doesn't seem to have the same occasional pausing/freezing problem that Firefox does (at least yet - haven't had much time to play with it).  

Also know that I've turned off disk caching for Firefox to alleviate the problem too, to no avail.

Wonder what the problem is?

---

### Post by mynydd on 2009-01-09
> **squashpup said:**
> Yeah, I'm running ext2 with the noatime option.  What I've found is that the problem seems to occur only while running Firefox.  And, the problem is greatly minimized while running Firefox under Xfce.  I would like to run Gnome, however, as it has several options that Xfce doesn't.  

I also noticed that Opera doesn't seem to have the same occasional pausing/freezing problem that Firefox does (at least yet - haven't had much time to play with it).  

Also know that I've turned off disk caching for Firefox to alleviate the problem too, to no avail.

Wonder what the problem is?
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne")
Have you tried the firefox tweaks in the above link?

---

### Post by squashpup on 2009-01-09
I already disabled all disk caching.  That wiki said it would still cache to ram, so I thought this would be the same thing as moving the cache into /tmp. since /tmp is tmpfs.  Should I try to re-enable it and set the cache as /tmp/firefox?  Isn't tmpfs ram?  Am I missing something?

I assumed that in essence, these would do the same thing.  Maybe I was wrong.  I will try to move the cache to /tmp later on this evening to see what results I get.

Thanks.

---

### Post by stchman on 2009-01-09
I have an Aspire One and I found that disabling Compiz helped it's performance quite a bit.  I agree with the other posters, turn off the swap as SSDs don't like being written to constantly.  It will shorten the life of your SSD.

---

### Post by timcredible on 2009-01-09
my granddaughter has an acer one, i installed 8.10 on it for her, and it has no freezing issues, but she has a hard drive in it, so sounds like the other poster is right about it being the ssd.  if i were you i'd re-install and use ext2

---

### Post by squashpup on 2009-01-09
To the poster that suggested I reformat as ext2, that's what I'm already using.  Thanks anyway.  

But, I changed Firefox from no cache (cache to ram) to cache=/tmp/firefox.  Worked beautifully.  Firefox runs very smoothly. 

Now, another problem. 

I'm at my friends house, and I'm connecting to his wireless.  The wireless connection occasionally drops, and when I go to reconnect, the wireless connection is missing completely...only Auto eth1 remains.

Only way I've found to fix it is a complete reboot.  I do a ipconfig from a terminal, and wlan1 is gone.  

What module runs the wireless?  I looked in lsmod and found ath5k.  I rmmoded it and modprobe ath5k.  If ath5k is it, shouldn't that fix it?  Still, no wireless.  Is this right, or am I barking up the wrong tree again?  

You guys are great.  Thanks again for all your help...should I start a new thread?

Even with the hiccups, tinkering with this thing is a blast.

---

### Post by squashpup on 2009-01-15
It seems to now be happening in both xfce and gnome.  Only with Firefox, though.  I downloaded Opera and have been running it.  Works much better, without any annoying pauses.  

Wonder why Firefox has such a problem?  Opera works just fine, but Firefox is what I'm used to.  No biggie, though.  

If anyone has any other advice, that would be great. Until then, I will be fine with Opera.

---

