---
title: "Need help with my video drivers (n00b)"
date: 2010-07-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by zash91 on 2010-07-12
I know everyone by now is really getting upset with all the n00b linux users such as me on the forums always bombarding the more experienced users for help but if you could please help me.  

My video card is "Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device (rev 02)" 

I can not find the correct driver for this card and I am running Ubuntu 8.10.
My xorg.conf file also does not look right because none of my information is filled out,

My xorg.conf file looks like this:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
#    Driver        "kbd"
#    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
#    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
#    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
#    Driver        "mouse"
#    Option        "CorePointer"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
#    Driver        "synaptics"
#    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
#    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
#    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
#    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
#EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
I don't know what's wrong or if there is even anything wrong but I would like to receive the correct drivers for this machine. Any help I can receive would be great!

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-07-14
N00bs are welcome. It is a proof that we are convincing Windoze users.

Ubuntu 8.10 is unsupported and thus a security threat. With your screen card, I would go for a clean install (not upgrade) of Ubuntu 9.10. Chances are that 9.10 will install the drivers automatically.

You can download a copy here:
[www.releases.ubuntu.com]("http://www.releases.ubuntu.com")

---

