---
title: "11.10 Printing Problems"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by xscd on 2011-10-14
After upgrading to Ubuntu 11.10, my Kyocera color laser printer (FS C5100DN) is no longer automatically recognized and configured as in Ubuntu (11.04), and after manual adding and configuration (using the suggested postscript driver, or any other drivers offered) no document from any application (gedit, libreoffice, etc) will print, neither in color nor in monochrome (black and white). However, when shared as a network printer, other computers on the local network can print to the FS C5100DN color laser printer via the Internet router and ethernet cable attached to the router and to the printer's ethernet port.

When I attach my previous black-and-white laser printer (a Kyocera FS-1020D) to the computer, using the same power and USB cords/cables, it is automatically recognized ash configured, and prints perfectly, as always.

Using the same USB cable attached to my black-and-white Kyocera printer, the data transmission is fine and the printer prints. In addition, if I connect the problematic Kyocera color laser printer directly to another computer running the previous Ubuntu 11.04, it is automatically recognized (when powered on) and configured and prints fine in both color and black and white from that computer, but it won't print when connected to my own desktop computer running an Ubuntu newly updated to 11.10.

Anyone else experiencing this problem? Any ideas or suggestions? Thank you. :)

---

### Post by ModifiedDesign on 2011-10-15
I hope someone can figure this out. I just updated the computer at my business to 11.10 and no cannot print. I'm a long term user but not very tech oriented, which is why I use Ubuntu. I need the ability to print back, and quickly, lol. It just says error everytime I try to print.

---

### Post by drydiggins on 2011-10-15
> **ModifiedDesign said:**
> I hope someone can figure this out. I just updated the computer at my business to 11.10 and no cannot print. I'm a long term user but not very tech oriented, which is why I use Ubuntu. I need the ability to print back, and quickly, lol. It just says error everytime I try to print.

Same here. :confused:

---

### Post by xscd on 2011-10-15
To continue the discussion (as the original poster), I attached this Kyocera FS C5100DN color laser printer to a friend's computer running the previous Ubuntu 11.04 (Natty Narwhal). The computer automatically recognized and configured the printer, and it printed with no problem in both monochrome (black and white) and color.

Ubuntu 11.04 recognizes and automatically configures both my Kyocera monochrome and color laser printers, but Ubuntu 11.10 recognizes only the Kyocera monochrome (black and white) laser printer; the color FS C5100DN printer is not recognized nor automatically configured, and manual configuration, using any of the drivers offered, fails to make the color laser printer operational (it won't print, no data is transmitted (or received by the printer)) **except** when the manually configured color laser printer is enabled as a network printer (through its own ethernet port connected by cable to our Internet router), in which case other computers connected to our local network can print to the Kyocera color laser printer, but my own computer, to which the color laser printer is attached via USB cable, cannot print. The fault is not the USB cable itself, because I tested it with the monochrome laser printer and it worked perfectly.

---

### Post by nekron29 on 2011-10-16
I have too printing problems; i have a Xerox Phaser 3117 - the issue is linked only to PDF files; i can only print one page and after that the printer is not receiving the new printing commands anymore. No idea what the reason behind is; i received some CUPS updates in the morning...

ODT files are working fine; it seems that the issue at least for me is only for PDF files; i tried multiple apps - Evince, Acrobat Reader and Foxit Reader all with same result :( Help !!

Thanks !

---

### Post by drydiggins on 2011-10-16
This all started for me when I accepted the offer to upgrade from 11.04 to 11.10.

Folks, this 'update' feature still is not ready for prime time.

Long story short, after losing a full day reverting to a bare metal reinstall of 11.04, I have 'progressed' to the point where the printer spits out blank pages.

The good news is that since I spun off the 28GB of stuff on the HDD before I reverted to 11.04 and I haven't fully moved back in, I'm free to look around for another distro.

It's been a lovely cruise.

---

### Post by boxafrogs on 2011-10-16
Really strange. 11.04 recognised my Epson Stylus D78 no problem. 11.10 just says the driver is missing and I don't know/ havent found how to install one. 
Need some drivers soon or its back to Narwal for me |¬(

---

### Post by nekron29 on 2011-10-17
@boxafrogs - you can try and look for the driver here - [http://avasys.jp/eng/linux_driver/download/lsb/epson-inkjet/escp/](http://avasys.jp/eng/linux_driver/download/lsb/epson-inkjet/escp/)

It seems that Ubuntu 11.10 has multiple printing issues - compared to 11.04 this a serious loss of QA from Canonical folks.....

---

### Post by shaneo1 on 2011-10-17
having issues when printing emails in thunderbird the text has spacing between letters, though is is random. I print to a postscrip[t file and all seems to be ok, but pdf and from thunderbird its a mess.  11.04 was fine, 11.10 is useless.

---

### Post by chardson on 2011-10-17
Yeah, my Samsung printer was being flaky, as well. The test page printed fine, but Writer didn't. I haven't been able to really debug it, but if anyone has ideas...

The driver install didn't seem to be an issue. But I'm not sure why. I thought I stumbled on something about CUPS timing out, but I can't find it now

---

### Post by grewolf on 2011-10-21
I had to uninstall and reinstall my lexmark print driver

---

### Post by raysa on 2011-10-22
Anything happening about these printer problems? The developers surely can't be content to leave so many people unable to use their printers after upgrading to 11.10

C'mon chaps ... Any instructions on how to make our printers "available" again?

---

### Post by redLeopoldo on 2011-10-23
There seems to be a proposed solution: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1862413&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1862413&page=2)

It's an RC, so it might not work for everyone.

---

### Post by krchat on 2011-10-23
[SIZE=2]Please help me. I set new distro Lubuntu 11.10 for the first time. I'm a beginner in Linux, this is my first Linux distro. I have MFP - Samsung SCX 4100, but unfortunately it doesn't recognized by system.[/SIZE]
[SIZE=2]It recognized before by printing tab in system tools  but didn't print without driver. I found previous driver, set it and  also did some manipulations  which found on these forums like:[/SIZE]
[SIZE=2] 
[/SIZE][[SIZE=2][COLOR=#0000c0]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1057344&page=2[/COLOR][/SIZE]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1057344&page=2")[SIZE=2] [/SIZE]

[SIZE=2]Follow the instructions here: 
[/SIZE][[SIZE=2][COLOR=#0000c0]http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-b...sg2075437.html[/COLOR][/SIZE]]("http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-b...sg2075437.html")[SIZE=2] 

sudo echo "usb 0x04e8 0x341b" >> /etc/sane.d/xerox_mfp.conf 

then run 

sudo xsane [/SIZE]

[FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2]root@st:~/Downloads/cdroot/Linux# ./install.sh 
GUI mode installer execution failed, proceeding in text mode 
**** Running text mode install 
**** Press Enter to continue or q and then Enter to quit: 

**** Print drivers for the following device models available: 
CLP-300splc CLP-310splc CLP-350ps CLP-500splc CLP-510splc CLP-550ps CLP-600splc CLP-610splc CLP-650ps CLP-660ps CLP-770ps CLX-216xsplc CLX-3160splc CLX-3170splc CLX-6200ps CLX-6240ps CLX-8380ps mfp560 mfp750 ML-1450ps ML-1510spl2 ML-1520spl2 ML-1610spl2 ML-1630spl2 ML-1630wspl2 ML-1640spl2 ML-1710spl2 ML-1740spl2 ML-1750spl2 ML-2010spl2 ML-2150ps ML-2150spl2 ML-2240spl2 ML-2245spl2 ML-2250spl2 ML-2510spl2 ML-2550ps ML-2550Sps ML-2550Sspl2 ML-2560ps ML-2570ps ML-2850ps ML-2855ps ML-3050spl2 ML-3470ps ML-3560spl2 ML-4050DMVps ML-4050ps ML-4550ps ML-6060ps ML-7300ps ML-8x00ps scx4100 scx4200 scx4300 scx4500 scx4500w scx4725 scx4x16 scx4x20 scx4x21 scx4x24 scx4x26 scx4x28ps scx5312f scx5635ps scx5835ps scx5x30 scx6x20PCL scx6x20 scx6x20PS scx6x22ps scx6x45ps scx6x55ps sf531p 
**** Please enter model to install and press Enter: scx4100 
INFO: Installing MFP port and SANE backend libraries ... 
INFO: Installing GUI lpr ... 
INFO: Fixing file ownership and permissions ... 
INFO: Registering SANE backend ... 
INFO: Registering CUPS printer ... 
Rather than invoking init scripts through /etc/init.d, use the service(8) 
utility, e.g. service cups restart 

Since the script you are attempting to invoke has been converted to an 
Upstart job, you may also use the stop(8) and then start(8) utilities, 
e.g. stop cups ; start cups. The restart(8) utility is also available. 
cups stop/waiting 
cups start/running, process 6776 
INFO: CUPS restart OK 
INFO: Creating menu entries ... 
mkdir: cannot create directory `/proc/Desktop': No such file or directory 
chmod: cannot access `/proc/Desktop': No such file or directory 
chown: cannot access `/proc/Desktop': No such file or directory 
mkdir: cannot create directory `/proc/.gnome-desktop': No such file or directory 
chmod: cannot access `/proc/.gnome-desktop': No such file or directory 
chown: cannot access `/proc/.gnome-desktop': No such file or directory 
INFO: Finishing installation ... 
**** Text mode install finished 
[EMAIL="root@st:~/Downloads/cdroot/Linux"]root@st:~/Downloads/cdroot/Linux[/EMAIL]# [/SIZE][/FONT]
[FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2][/SIZE][/FONT] 
[FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2]Then I found this message and did so:[/SIZE][/FONT]
[FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2][/SIZE][/FONT] 
[SIZE=2]The linux unified driver no longer appears under scx-4100 on the Samsung UK site so I selected scx-4600 and downloaded the file (v 3.00.63). 

Extract the file and change to the directory cdroot/Linux 
Open a terminal and run the command sudo ./install.sh 

The Samsung GUI installer then appears and runs. 
You are offered the option of adding users to the group lp and disabling parallel printing., both of which I do. [/SIZE]

I don't know what should I do. I tried change sign 4600 to 4100 there:
 
[SIZE=2]echo "usb 0x04e8 0x341b" >> /etc/sane.d/xerox_mfp.conf [/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][/SIZE] 
[SIZE=2]I'm going to uninstall printer drivers; cups; sane xerox - what else? And reinstall all again.[/SIZE]

---

### Post by geomickb on 2011-10-23
Same here with Epson printer, I have to use Windows to print!

---

### Post by drydiggins on 2011-10-23
> **redLeopoldo said:**
> There seems to be a proposed solution: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1862413&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1862413&page=2)

It's an RC, so it might not work for everyone.

Thanks for this!
In a backhanded way, the kernel discussion confirmed my own solution:
A bare-metal rollback to 11.04.  

Spinning home/george off to NAS and rebuilding my suite of favorite applications only made the PC unusable
for a full day.

Adding to the irony, I plugged my USB aircard in last night and it simply
came up and was automagically recognized by 11.04.  The Lexmark 901 as well.

In future, I will read the invitation to 'upgrade' as "Here there be Dragons!"

Meanwhile, my tiny contribution to the effort will be to dual-boot with a mature version and also test my peculiar setup (Panasonic Toughbook, Lexmark 901 printer (USB), Sierrra Wireless USB aircard et al) and offer my own whining to the developer community.

---

### Post by joaopinheiro on 2011-10-23
I've been using Ubuntu for some years now and TurboPrint. I can print from my main computer and I could print through TurboPrint from my second machine to the first through ipp before installing Ubuntu 11.10... Now that I have installed it I can't print anymore from the second computer. Glad that I can still print from the main one... Hope they fix this soon...

---

### Post by smi402 on 2011-10-23
I have similar printing problems with a Brother MFC-8460N monochrome laser printer on my network. This printer worked fine under 11.04 but has not worked since upgrading to 11.10, even though Win 7 and Mac OSX Snow Leopard machines on the network have no problems printing. The Ubuntu 11.10 machine appears to send the document to the printer which then spits out a sheet of blank paper. The amber "activity" light on the printer then stays on (it usually reverts back to green) and all other machines on the network are blocked from using the printer. My solution for now is not to send documents to the printer from the machine running Ubuntu 11.10 - not a very satisfactory solution as that is the primary desktop machine. This machine has an Intel QuadCore processor and the AMD64 distribution of Ubuntu 11.10 is installed. :(

---

### Post by smi402 on 2011-10-24
I seem to have solved my problems with the Brother MFC-8460N network printer and Ubuntu 11.10. It appears that the driver for the MFC-8440 was loaded during the upgrade rather than the "Brother MFC8460N for CUPS" driver. After changing to this driver it seems to be working correctly and is no longer blocking other machines on the network from accessing the printer. :P

---

### Post by bkline on 2011-10-28
Same problems here after upgrade to 11.10, in my case with a Brother HL-5370DW.  Unlike smi402 it does not appear that the upgrade switched the driver to one for a different model, so his solution's not available for me, but I'm getting blank pages when I try to print.  As with other users, I can print successfully when I send the job from a Windows machine to the printer, even though the printer is physically attached to the Ubuntu workstations.  Not my favorite solution. :-)

---

### Post by ayemossum on 2011-11-01
I'm also having problems printing.
My Kodak 5300 worked great under 11.04, but now I get NOTHING from it.
I hit print, it starts up, displays "Printing," picks up a paper, then just sits there.
I've left it there for over an hour before just to see, but nothing.
Clearly this is not a print driver problem (seeing as we're all having similar problems), but a print system (or maybe something deeper, usb bus drivers?) issue.

I've also had problems with mass storage (when connecting my phone [Samsung Gravity T] to the computer) so that's why I suggest that perhaps it's a problem closer to the kernel.

---

### Post by bkline on 2011-11-01
> **ayemossum said:**
> I'm also having problems printing.
My Kodak 5300 worked great under 11.04, but now I get NOTHING from it.
I hit print, it starts up, displays "Printing," picks up a paper, then just sits there.
I've left it there for over an hour before just to see, but nothing.
Clearly this is not a print driver problem (seeing as we're all having similar problems), but a print system (or maybe something deeper, usb bus drivers?) issue.

I've also had problems with mass storage (when connecting my phone [Samsung Gravity T] to the computer) so that's why I suggest that perhaps it's a problem closer to the kernel.

Hard to imagine how it could be at as low a level as the USB connection, since the path [Windows Machine] -> [Ubuntu Machine] -> [USB Cable] -> [Printer] is working fine.  I would be more inclined to think it's closer to the printer drivers, without being a problem with one single driver; more likely the printing subsystem itself.

Well, I just tried deleting the printer and reinstalling it, and now I'm getting real print output instead of blank pages, so it would appear that the Ubuntu 11.04 -> 11.10 upgrade dropped some things on the floor.  Other posts in this thread seem to imply, though, that the solution that worked for me may not work for them, so we may be looking at more than one point of failure.

---

### Post by shaneo1 on 2011-11-02
I too have an issue with my HP Laserjet 1320, it is connected to a windows machine in the office and shared on the network.  The email machine I use is Ubuntu 11.10, and every now and then when a email is printed spaces appear between the letters and today the letters printed on top of each other.

I have removed the drivers and even deleted all the printer information in .thunderbird/profile/prefs.ps

Reinstalled the printer with just the recommended generic PL 5 drivers as the HP drivers slow down PDF and IMAGE printing. 

Upgraded to linux kernel  3.0.0.-13 as this worked for some people and upgraded the Grub, but still I am faced with this issue.  The only workaround at the moment is to restart the computer and I don't want to be doing this every time it happens or the Boss will ask me to install windows XP again on the machine and I think that will be a bad idea.  I want to promote Ubuntu in my workplace. But it seems that all these little problems are not winning the managers over. :confused:

Is the printer issues now fixed or does anyone know if they are being worked on?  I still have printer issues where it prints spaces between some emails and its really beginning to annoy my manager now.

---

### Post by bkline on 2011-11-14
Not exactly sure what you mean by "prints spaces between some emails" but if you mean it adds extra blank lines in the body of some email messages, that may be an artifact of Microsoft's email products, which sometimes inject extra carriage return characters at the ends of lines.  When I want to print messages from users of such software I often run them through a Python script to eliminate the unwanted blank space.

---

### Post by Scott Baker on 2011-11-14
I had problems printing from the 11.10 OS myself. I have both a Hewlett-Packard D-4360 color printer and an Epson CX-4800 scanner/printer combo. My issue was that neither would print in greyscale. They would both print from the color cartridges only. The fix was found in an earlier post. I uninstalled both machines, rebooted the computer, then reinstalled both machines. Both are now working just fine. ( sad though that I've had to make more "corrections" with this upgrade, than with any previous upgrade )  :confused:

---

### Post by xscd on 2011-11-21
I had read a couple weeks ago that the problems with Ubuntu 11.10 and printing (some printers won't print even though they are supposedly recognized; a job sent to the printer just sits in the queue for many minutes or hours until one cancels it) was not caused by Ubuntu itself or by CUPS (Common Unix Printing System), but instead by some changes in the Linux kernel and the way it interpreted hardware identifying itself to the kernel.

The information supplied by some printers was not enough to uniquely identify it, so jobs sent from the computer to the printer ended up in "bit limbo," nowhere, waiting forever.

Today (Monday, November 21, 2011), having installed the latest kernel update just hours ago, my printer (a Kyocera FS-C5100DN color laser printer) is now working again with no problems nor issues whatsoever!

I'm happy-happy joy-joy again! I hope that most other people's printing issues are solved by this same kernel update. Just wanted to add this information to the thread.

---

### Post by bkline on 2011-11-21
@xscd: Is this a kernel update from the standard Ubuntu repositories?  Or something you pulled down by hand to solve the printing problems?

---

### Post by tim.hoeffel on 2012-05-23
I have much the same issues with my canon pixma ip4300. The resolution is stuck at 600x600 and not all the colors print (like red and magenta). I uninstalled and reinstalled the driver with the generic Canon driver in Ubuntu. No luck. Tried to run the windows version but it looks like it's not recognized. 

Being self employed it's really important for me to have this stuff work. This should be simple sh**. Or is that too much to ask?

---

