---
title: "2.5&quot; SATA HDD enclosure not registering"
date: 2008-08-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Jeezus on 2008-08-12
I just got a generic 2.5" SATA HDD enclosure, and when I plug it in, nothing happens.
I'm running Gutsy, on a Toshiba Satellite A105
it has a cable that connects to the enclosure, and then has 2 USB connections on the other side, in case it isn't getting enough power.
I plugged it into a windows computer, and it found the device, and installed drivers, but then couldn't access the HDD there just wasn't an icon, or window, that I could use to copy files too or from it. it registered as being connected, and working... it just didn't do anything.
the other X-factor, is that the HDD came out of a PS3. I'm trying to copy my save files off of it, because the system itself catastrophically failed... it suddenly developed a large crack in one corner and no one knows what happened to it... :P
I was going to just stick the HDD in another PS3 and copy the files to a USB HDD... except that the HDD apparently only works in the PS3 it was formatted too. sooooo... if someone knows how I could get this enclosure working, or some other way to get my save files off the HDD from my PS3, I'd really appreciate it.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2008-08-12
Two things to check. I've got two SATA enclosures, a 2½" and 3½", and both have a USB/ESATA switch. A number of times I've accidently switched them to ESATA without noticing, plugged them into a USB port, and then scratched my head wondering why they wouldn't mount. :(

The other thing I've found is that it seems that my 2½" is getting only just enough power from the USB port. It won't work through an unpowered hub and I've had it lose connection from my Mac Mini. Have you tried it with extra power?

**Edit**: another thought. I don't know what filesystem the PS3 uses and a quick google came up with contradictory links. One said FAT32, which should be no problem. Others mentioned 'synergistic processing unit filesystem' which would explain why Windows couldn't cope, but apparently there are Linux drivers for this. Whether the Ubuntu kernel is compiled with them, I don't know. Do you know what filesystem is on that drive? Try plugging the unit in and from a terminal:

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

(Lower-case L, not one.) That might tell you.

---

### Post by Jeezus on 2008-08-13
this is what I get,

```
Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x12df12de

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        1245    10000431   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            9481        9729     2000092+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda3            1246        9480    66147637+  83  Linux

Partition table entries are not in disk order

Disk /dev/sdb: 60.0 GB, 60011642880 bytes
64 heads, 32 sectors/track, 57231 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 2048 * 512 = 1048576 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x4241e2c8

Disk /dev/sdb doesn't contain a valid partition table

```

it's showing up there, but I don't know how to access it...
I've done some digging around on "SPUFS" and have found a wealth of information on it as a system... but no information on setting up your computer to be able to read the file system...
I just can't fathom why all this PS3 stuff has to be so overly complicated. I have a perfectly good PS3, the motherboard, power supply, and blu-ray drive all work perfectly, but the blu-ray drive control board has gone bad and the thing won't read discs... furthermore the blu-ray control board and the motherboard are for some reason or another keyed to each other so that you can't replace just one of them you have to replace both... which is ridiculously expensive... and now I can't even back up my save files, because it turns out the HDD gets keyed to the motherboard as well, so that if you want to use it in another PS3 you have to re-format it...
seeing as how Sony loses money on every single PS3 it makes, you'd think they would make it easier to fix them, so that a broken PS3 didn't stop Sony from making up the loss in software sales... Sony just loses more money when people buy another PS3, or just give up on them all together.
...just mind boggling...

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2008-08-13
Firstly, I have no experience of the PS3, so if there is a way of getting your data off that drive, I wouldn't know of it. All I can say is that:

> **Jeezus said:**
> ```
Disk /dev/sdb doesn't contain a valid partition table
```

... explains why neither Linux nor Windows can mount the drive. They can find no partition that they can recognise. Perhaps there is a partition, or filesystem, but hidden with a bit of crafty Sony coding. Perhaps this is a Sony specialty - the Vaio laptop I'm posting from for example. Originally (2-3 years ago) I managed to set up a Windows/Suse dual-boot on this machine, but when I tried to add Ubuntu as well, the install failed. Gparted told me that the whole disk was unallocated or unformatted. On a machine that I was successfully using to boot into both Windows and Suse! :-k It turned out that it was a combination of a non-standard partition table and a hidden recovery partition. A complete reformat of the disc and a reinstall of Windows and all the Linux distros I wanted put paid to that nonsense. However, that's not helping you.

Perhaps you could rescue your files somehow, but...

> **Jeezus said:**
>  and now I can't even back up my save files, because it turns out the HDD gets keyed to the motherboard as well, so that if you want to use it in another PS3 you have to re-format it...

... doesn't sound hopeful. I can suggest only two things. There must be some forums for PS3 hackers. Perhaps one of them might be able to help you. Failing that, and if you are prepared to lose the data, you could make the disc usable simply by creating partitions with Gparted. You'll probably have to set a disklabel first.

Sorry I haven't got anything more constructive.

---

### Post by Jeezus on 2008-08-14
Thanks, I appreciate the help, but I think I'm down to calling sony and fruitlessly asking them if there is a way to do it.
I've looked for PS3 hacking forums, and can't find anything. They simply don't seem to exist, or if they do, they aren't registered with google.
I've found a few PS3 forums, but anytime someone posts a problem, it's responded to with post after post of "Call Sony"

...le sigh...

---

