---
title: "12.04 Hangs on Shutdown and Restart"
date: 2012-07-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-07-26
Ubuntu hangs on the shutdown splash screen with 2 dots filled out of the 5.
On restart when the computer has already shutoff, turns back on, and hangs on a blank screen.  

I have an Acer 5560-7402.  My graphics card is a ATI Radeon HD 6520G, and I'm using the regular ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX driver.  

I saw other posts related to this, but others had different specs.  

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-07-29
bump

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-15
Hmmm, was hoping some updates would fix this by now, but the problem persists.  I saw there was a recent update to fglrx driver, really was hoping this would do it.  Any thoughts?

---

### Post by johnathansmith on 2012-08-15
Hi, did you look [here]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/26601/new-computer-hangs-on-shutdown-reboot-how-to-troubleshoot")?

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-15
Yea I've heard that before, and it's true I could potentially have the wrong wireless driver.  However, I don't want to run that exact command because I have a different model, BCM 43227,  and I'm afraid to ruin my wireless connection since that took me about 2 weeks of work to get running.  

I have also heard of another solution here: 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/750437](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/750437)

User David Cecchin writes a post about getting the latest 12.6 driver which updates the fglrx driver from the proprietary driver that is installed from "Additional Drivers":

```

OpenGL version string: 4.2.11627 Compatibility Profile Contex

```

TO

```

OpenGL version string: 4.2.11733 Compatibility Profile Context

```

Using these instructions:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI#Manually_installing_Catalyst_12.6](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI#Manually_installing_Catalyst_12.6)

My only problem now is that AMD does not have my driver listed in the their categories, I have a AMD Radeon HD 6520G in my notebook.  It has a category HD 6xxxM, which I tried to use and it said my card wasn't supported by it.  So where are the latest HD 6xxxG drivers for Catalyst 12.6 so that I can continue with these instructions??

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-16
I see AMD released 12.8 Catalyst today, however not for laptop users running linux :(, I don't think there is a driver out there for 6520g that is beyond 

OpenGL version string: 4.2.11627 Compatibility Profile Contex

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-19
Can anyone help me locate a working stable driver for AMD Radeon HD 6520G?

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-21
Well, I installed AMD Catalyst Proprietary Display Driver 12.8 from 

[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx)

using their installer by running: 

```
sudo sh amd-driver-installer-8.982*.run
```

```
fglrxinfo
```

now outputs:

```

OpenGL vendor string: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: AMD Radeon HD 6520G
OpenGL version string: 4.2.11762 Compatibility Profile Context

```Which leads me to believe the driver is installed correctly, but this didn't fix my problem.  System still hangs on shutdown.  When I press the "Esc" key on the splash page as it's shutting down, the last message displayed is "Will Now Halt".  I'm going to take johnathansmith's advice, this could very well be that I have the wrong wireless driver (if it's not the graphics then what else!?).  I will investigate and report my findings.

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-21
I tried uninstalling the proprietary Broadcom STA driver which I had been using (which for wifi it had been working just fine).  I shutdown (it still hung), started again, tried to shutdown again (it hung), so I'm not quite sure if wifi is the problem or not.  I reinstalled the broadcom STA driver and my wifi works fine, but it still won't shutdown or reboot without hanging.  Any ideas?  I'm really stumped now.

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-23
I have identified the culpit.  It is definitely an ACPI issue.  I edit the /etc/default/grub file at line:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
```

to

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=off"
```

This did not fix my problem, but it did cause a difference.  I was able to successfully restart, but on shutdown it would get a step further in the console than before but ultimately it would still hang.  Also, disabling acpi completely also disabled my wireless card.  I'm still learning about the functionality of acpi, so any input would be appreciated.  I also tried a list of acpi related boot parameters that are listed on the website below (slide two), although none were able to fix my problem.  Now I have a lead though... Any thoughts anyone?
[URL="http://www.brighthub.com/computing/linux/articles/39504.aspx"]
http://www.brighthub.com/computing/linux/articles/39504.aspx[/URL]

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-23
[]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds")Food for thought on ACPI, a quote from the ACPI wikipedia site:

[> ]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds")[Linus Torvalds]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds"), creator of the [Linux kernel]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_kernel"), once described it as "a complete design disaster in every way" in relation to his view that "modern PCs are horrible"
Some software developers have trouble implementing ACPI, and express concerns about the requirements that [bytecode]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bytecode") from an external source must be run by the system with full privileges.

My problem relates

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-27
There an open bug for my issue at below link.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1010981]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1010981")

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-08-30
Downgraded to 32-bit, the problem does not exist for 32 bit distribution.

---

### Post by erickwill on 2012-09-23
"Originally Posted by MrCorleone87 on http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12255815#post12255815"
OK guys I think I might have a solution to your problems because I had the same problem on numerous distros when using NVIDIA (or ATI) drivers and it took me about 6 months to figure out what causes the problem. The freeze on reboot/shutdown doesn't happen with the Nouveau drivers but those are still not good enough to me. Although they're getting better.

So anyway, it is the boot splash that causes the problem. What you have to do is open your file manager as root. For those who don't know how to do it, you open the terminal and type sudo nautilus or su - c 'nautilus'. Nautilus is obviously just an example , so if you're using thunar or pcmanfm you type in su -c 'thunar' etc etc.

Now, you go to etc/default/grub and you look for the line: GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash" and you change it to: GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet"

Then you look for the line:

GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

and you uncomment it and change the resolution to the actual resolution of your screen. (Mine is 1366x76 Once you do that, you add an additional line right under and it goes like this: GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=1366x768 So when you're done , everything should look like this: GRUB_GFXMODE=1366x768 GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=1366x768 Now you save it, open a new terminal window and type in sudo update-grub You reboot and that's it. Obviously you won't have plymouth anymore but console output instead. However I think it's definitely worth it and I rather have working NVIDIA (or ATI) drivers without splash screen than the other way around. This solution works for me and it works for all the Ubuntu based distros. I hope it will work for you guys and let me know if it did. This was really bothering me for a long time

---

