---
title: "9.04 touchpad: Middle click using the 2 finger tap"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Ferk on 2009-05-03
I've noticed that since 9.04 the behavior of the touchpad has changed (you can scroll by using 2 fingers dragging) but I find it quite annoying that performing middle clicks by tapping 2 fingers (like it was done before) is very hard, to the point of being frustrating to use it and turning this feature useless.

¿Is there some way to fix the  middle click or turn back to the old behavior?

I don't really care for the scrolling with 2 fingers, it might be good when I get accustomed to it, but I used a lot the 2 finger tapping middle click and it's uncomfortable to use the touchpad now without it.

Thanks

---

### Post by compholio on 2009-06-29
> **Ferk said:**
> I've noticed that in 9.04 the behavior of the touchpad has changed (now you can scroll by using 2 fingers dragging) but I find quite annoying that performing middle clicks by tapping 2 fingers (like it was done before) is very hard, to the point of being frustrating to use it and turning this feature useless.
...

Did you ever figure out a way to change this behavior?

---

### Post by BrendanM on 2009-11-04
Hey, I just upgraded from 8.04 to 9.10, and I'm seeing the same thing. I'd like to have two-finger tap do the middle click.

Does anyone know how/where I can configure this behavior?

---

### Post by lswb on 2009-11-04
Check out "man synaptics" from a terminal. (Note the ending 'S' on synaptics!) it will explain how to add a Section "InputDevice" to /etc/X11/xorg.conf to control various touchpad settings. I know that 9.04 and 9.10 may not necessarily have an existing /etc/X11/xorg.conf but you can add one if necessary with only the InputDevice section and it should be used.

FYI this file must be edited (or created) as root.

---

### Post by AmericanYellow on 2009-11-05
I am looking to a solution to revert back to the 2 finger middle click. 

Apparently, 2 finger and 3 finger tap functions has been reversed with 2 fingers giving a right click and 3 giving a middle click. I can understand that the the right click is used more often and thus 2 fingers would be much more appropriate for the commonly used button, but many of us are use to 2 fingers as middle click and especially with cube rotation in Compiz using middle click the 3 fingers just doesn't work.

---

### Post by etherjackolope on 2009-11-16
I would like to know how to achieve this as well. I got very accustomed to using the two finger method of opening links in new tabs in Firefox, and would like to keep this setting.

---

### Post by nimajiman on 2009-11-17
Me too - 2 finger tap in 9.04 was a middle click, and 3 fingers was right click, however this is reversed for me now in 9.10.

I used middle click all the time while browsing and tapping three fingers is just too painful. I would much prefer my 2 finger middle-click tap back!

Has anyone solved this yet? I read above it might mean editing the X11.conf but not sure what to put in it.

---

### Post by r4space on 2009-11-27
wrong thread, apologies!

---

### Post by pastir on 2009-11-27
> **AmericanYellow said:**
> I am looking to a solution to revert back to the 2 finger middle click. 

Apparently, 2 finger and 3 finger tap functions has been reversed with 2 fingers giving a right click and 3 giving a middle click. I can understand that the the right click is used more often and thus 2 fingers would be much more appropriate for the commonly used button, but many of us are use to 2 fingers as middle click and especially with cube rotation in Compiz using middle click the 3 fingers just doesn't work.


I agree, it would be nice if there was an option to let us change it to the way we wanted.  I only use tapping for the middle click.

---

### Post by bornagainpenguin on 2009-12-01
/BUMPing this because I too want to know...

--bornagainpenguin

---

### Post by jensbo on 2010-01-06
My work around:
the commands 
```

synclient TapButton2=2
synclient TapButton3=3

```do the trick.

EDIT:

so you might want to add it to  /etc/rc.local  to run it on start up.

---

### Post by JustinForce on 2010-01-16
> **jensbo said:**
> My work around:
the commands 
```

synclient TapButton2=2
synclient TapButton3=3

```do the trick.

EDIT:

so you might want to add it to  /etc/rc.local  to run it on start up.

This worked for me. Thanks, jensbo!

---

### Post by last1 on 2010-01-25
That's not a permanent fix, you have to run it every time you reboot and according to the bug report, sometimes it'll revert to the other way even if you haven't rebooted. It's a shame there's not a real fix.

---

### Post by pi/roman on 2010-01-25
You can enable it from your HAL configuration file.

to find the file:
sudo find / -name 11-x11-synaptics.fdi

then edit it with gedit or kate or another text editor and make sure to include the lines:
<merge key="input.x11_options.SHMConfig" type="string">true</merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.TapButton2" type="string">2</merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.TapButton3" type="string">3</merge>

---

### Post by grandsatrap on 2010-03-25
> **pi/roman said:**
> You can enable it from your HAL configuration file.

to find the file:
sudo find / -name 11-x11-synaptics.fdi

then edit it with gedit or kate or another text editor and make sure to include the lines:
<merge key="input.x11_options.SHMConfig" type="string">true</merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.TapButton2" type="string">2</merge>
<merge key="input.x11_options.TapButton3" type="string">3</merge>

Thanks. Do you know if this works on Dell laptops? (Inspiron 1501). Other things don't work - like getting a program to control the fans.

Also, what you do you have to do to make these lines take effect? Do  I have to recompile something or are they just read in when the computer boots?

Finally: Does "TapButton2" = 2 mean that I tap the touchpad twice and it acts like a right click and then I tap the touchpad 3 times to act like a middle button click? Oh - wait -- I think I read somewhere that it means I put 3 fingers on the touchpad and click all 3 fingers - weird. This definitely doesn't work on my laptop.

I am trying to see if there is a key combination that will emulate Button3 click, but I can't find one. Do you know what I can do to start the Desktop Compiz Cube? I think it only works if you click the middle mouse button (which I dont' have).

Thanks for any help and time you put into this.

---

### Post by Bkkkk on 2010-05-10
This really should be available as an option in the GUI. Thanks guys.

---

### Post by Kremlin on 2011-05-06
This issue still affects 11.04 (Natty) as well - while running the synclient commands in the terminal will change the behaviour of two and three finger clicks, it will reset to default whenever the laptop is awoken from sleep mode or restarted.

A more permanent solution is definitely desired.

---

### Post by deadvirus on 2011-06-05
Still no permanent fix?

---

### Post by John Belmonte on 2011-06-23
The official solution is coming in gnome 3.0-- there will be a way to hook into the event for input device detection and reliably apply your configuration changes.  See [https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=635486](https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=635486).

---

### Post by SabreWolfy on 2011-07-19
FWIW: Using 10.04 on an Acer AspireOne netbook. 'man synaptics' indicates that clicking the left and right buttons together (my touchpad has buttons) generates a middle-click. Works for me.

---

