---
title: "16.04 LTS - Prepearing ATA/IDE hard disk to selling connected as USB device"
date: 2017-04-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bartek6 on 2017-04-23
Hi,

I've some old 3,5 hard disks with ATA/IDE interface. Before selling I want to remove all data from them. Now I've notebook and no possibility to put this disk to any PC, but I've USB/ATA bridge so I can connect my old disks as USB device.

I know that formatting isn't sure and safe way to removing personal data. The question is how can I remove all data from this old disks connected as USB device?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-23
dban - Darick's Nuke -n- Boot
[https://dban.org/](https://dban.org/) - run a random data pass, then an all -'1's pass, then an all '0's pass.
If you are paranoid.

You can simulate each of these steps using dd or ddrescue too. Just pick the /dev/zero or /dev/urandom devices.  Filling empty storage with zeros is handy prior to crossing borders, BTW - then just remove all the zero'd files. 

There are other uses for these techniques too.  This can really help with partition image tools that compress the images - after all, compressing 20GB of zeros **is** very efficient.

---

### Post by pete-br on 2017-04-24
I would use GParted to look for your old HHD. Let's say it's device: /dev/sdx

Then use GParted to remove all partitions on the device.
Then create 1 big partition, leave the partition unformated.
The new partition would be /dev/sdx1

Instead of GParted you could also use fdisk. Be careful not to wipe you internal drive!

To overwrite the contents of that partition you can run:
dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sdx1 bs=1M
or
dd if=/dev/urandom of=/dev/sdx1 bs=1M

This can easily be done from you Ubuntu 16.04 LTS installation.

---

