---
title: "[SOLVED] Error installing i915graphics"
date: 2008-09-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by antibiotik on 2008-09-11
hi
im new to linux.. just now installed ubuntu hardy heron 
rite now im stuck with my intel integrated graphic driver installation
it give me error as showed below

[[IMG]http://img254.imageshack.us/img254/3064/screenshotrw8.th.png[/IMG]](http://img254.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotrw8.png)

and heres my xorg.conf..

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection



plss.. i anyone help me with this..

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-09-11
Hi and welcome, but the screen shot is to small for me to see the error. The intel graphics should be installed with Hardy. What issues are you having with your graphics.

---

### Post by antibiotik on 2008-09-11
overdrank
thx for replying
sorry for the thumbnail
here i paste the error 

DIRECT RENDERING OPEN SOURCE PROJECT  -  DRIVER INSTALLATION SCRIPT

[ [http://dri.sourceforge.net](http://dri.sourceforge.net) ]

==========================================================================

The script will now compile the [: 1361: ==: unexpected operator
DRM kernel modules
for your machine.

Press ENTER to continue or CTRL-C to exit.


[: 1361: ==: unexpected operator
[: 1361: ==: unexpected operator

Compiling DRM module...install.sh: 1361: Syntax error: Bad fd number
root@warfactory:/home/ugly/Desktop/dripkg# 


ok.. last time i install wine to run my warcraft 3 game.. but then my desktop turn blank.. i thought maybe its due to my graphic.. so i chk the xorg.conf and my graphic not listed there.. so i google for help.. i follow some solution.. but it wont work.. and mess some configuration.. so then i reinstall my ubuntu.. and post help here

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-09-11
Ok you device was configured 
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
Hardy handles the xorg differently then previous versions. The link you gave also is for xorg 6.9 so it maybe a little old. 
You do not need to reinstall for ubuntu for graphics issue, just boot into recovery mode and use the xfix option as stated earlier that the xorg is used differently in Hardy. As for gaming and wine I have no experience so you will have to wait for others. Have you thought about updating your graphics to a additional card.

---

### Post by antibiotik on 2008-09-11
so u mean my graphic driver already installed?
do i need to upgrade my xorg? then how? pls guide me..
and i dun have additional graphic card since this ibm thinkcentre pc dont have agp port

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-09-11
> **antibiotik said:**
> so u mean my graphic driver already installed?
 Yes it should be, you can use the command ```
gksu displayconfig-gtk
``` and verify and adjust your systems graphics.
> do i need to upgrade my xorg? then how? pls guide me..
and i dun have additional graphic card since this ibm thinkcentre pc dont have agp port
I believe Hardy uses a new xorg, 7.0 I believe. Yes a laptop would make it difficult to change the graphics card. :)

Edit   You may look at the amount of memory shared with the integrated graphics as this may help with performance.

---

### Post by antibiotik on 2008-09-11
ok thx overdrank.. for all ur help.. i'll go chk wine section for gaming..

---

