---
title: "8.10 daily build 20081014 hangs on &quot;booting system&quot; on PS3"
date: 2008-10-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Cyber Akuma on 2008-10-15
I downloaded the latest beta of the Intrepid Idex daily bild designed for the PS3.

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/daily/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/daily/current/)

At the kboot screen, no matter what I type after it says "loading kernel with initrd...success" the next message is "booting system..." and it just appears to get stuck there.

If I type "install" or "expert" the cursor flashes for a second then disappears, if I just press enter the cursor seems to be stuck under "Booting system..." and dosen't blink.

---

### Post by Cyber Akuma on 2008-10-19
Anybody?

---

### Post by mrichards0 on 2008-10-19
Type 'old' at the boot prompt (no quotes).  That will at least get you back in.  I'm having the same problem.  You will also want to edit your /etc/kboot.conf file to change the default kernel and set the boot options (like the video driver).  I'm still searching for an answer myself.

- Matt

---

### Post by Cyber Akuma on 2008-10-20
It just says "old: not found"

I am trying to boot the installer from the 8.10 cd, I am not trying to boot the version of Ubuntu 7.10 already isntalled on my PS3.

---

### Post by Cyber Akuma on 2008-10-20
Ah, I figured it out, but now I have a new problem.

I was using the wrong otheros.bld for booting kboot.

I am not sure the old one I was using was even Ubuntu 7.10 but maybe a completely different distro.

Strange though, I tried installing an alternate kboot before but it coulden't detect it, now it detected it off the disk.

Anyway, the new problem I have: (Keep in mind, this is just an installer disk, I can't use it as a licecd (I think) and the installer dosen't have a GUI either)

The installer fails on the "Select and install software" step.

It just says the step failed, dosen't really give any details, pretty much, the progress bar hit 100% (or at least I assume so, it seemed to zoom from 80% to 100%) and then this screen comes up. Attempting to retry this step just gives the same error almost instantly.

I am only able to continue by manually skipping these steps and continuing with the "Install kboot on a hard disk" step then selecting the next step it chose for me: "Finish the installation".

However, after the install is finished, it does not boot,after a bunch of other normal messages  I see the following messages:

> mount: mounting none on /dev/pts failed
/init: /init: 923: dropbear: not found
Ubuntu PS3 KBoot Loader.

No default root fs was found, or one was found and it didn't contains (something) message= config file.

If no roots was found, you can enter the shell here with 'sh'. Exiting will return you to this prompt. In the shell you can mount your rootfs (something) /mnt/root/.

Reasons this may have happened include:
- No drive with a rootfs was actually found.
- Your rootfs does not have the correct volume label of "/"
- Your rootfs is corrupt (use the rescue CD to fix this).

Sorry about the (something)'s, I only have a SDTV so the text is extrmely blurry, I can't make some of it out.

---

### Post by Gifted_Child on 2008-10-28
hey how are you i would like to know some things first can i use the cd thats being sent to me as the installer for my other os in my playstation 3 i know that might seem stupid to say but i just see other people having problems useing it next do i half to down load my own kboot loader if so whats the beest one to use or does the cd come with one. my last question is this can i use the software to make my own program for the XMB in the playstation 3 system so i can boot up the os with out having to type things every time i use it also to make a defalt program for the internet button so that i can use fire fox as my defalt web browser in my XMB so i dont half to boot up the whole os all the time and will i beable to download directly to the hard drive and the game system sees example say i download the latest flash player will the flash player automaticly upgrade it self ? or say i download quick time player can i use the old web browser to look at the video files i want to see? some one help me please!!!!!!!

---

### Post by Cyber Akuma on 2008-10-29
> **Gifted_Child said:**
> hey how are you i would like to know some things first can i use the cd thats being sent to me as the installer for my other os in my playstation 3 i know that might seem stupid to say but i just see other people having problems useing it next do i half to down load my own kboot loader if so whats the beest one to use or does the cd come with one. my last question is this can i use the software to make my own program for the XMB in the playstation 3 system so i can boot up the os with out having to type things every time i use it also to make a defalt program for the internet button so that i can use fire fox as my defalt web browser in my XMB so i dont half to boot up the whole os all the time and will i beable to download directly to the hard drive and the game system sees example say i download the latest flash player will the flash player automaticly upgrade it self ? or say i download quick time player can i use the old web browser to look at the video files i want to see? some one help me please!!!!!!!

You know, you're really not supposed to just jump into somebody else's topic and ask random unrelated questions, its considered thread hijacking.

Regardless, I will try to answer them, but next time, could you please use better grammar and punctuation? I had a hard time reading that.

1. Typically you need builds designed for a PS3. A PPC-based build might work, but it will likely not have support for all of the PS3's hardware. Most builds are designed for a x86 or x86_64 CPU, which will not work in a PS3.

2. Typically builds designed for a PS3 have a kboot loader on the disk themselves, if not you can install one from a USB drive.

3. You can't put any option in the XMB, the PS3 boots in OtherOS mode with a hypervisor that prevents access to the PS3-specefic sections of the HDD or the GPU. You have zero access to the firmware or PS3 section of the HDD in OtherOS mode.

4. I don't know about Flash or Quicktime, all I do know is that Adobe seems to just about never update flash for anything that isn't Windows. Took them forever to release Flash 9 for Linux, and everything that isn't Windows, Mac, or Linux (cellphones, game consoles, any other type of devices with an imbedded os) have been stuck at Flash 7 for YEARS.

Anyway, anyone have any ideas about my installation problems?

---

### Post by Gifted_Child on 2008-11-07
Ok i have a some questions i havent receved my cd of the ubuntu 8.10 yet and i am exsited to get it. Now my question is this will it have a kboot loader already on the disk? secund You see i have the 40GB ps3 i would like to have the 8.10 on it now. I know i got to upgrade the hard drive and thats on its way. I want to use the usb 2GB sandisk u3 cruzer i have to download the files i need how can i boot it to the device and use the memory stick to put it on my ps3 system so when the disk comes its just a back up disk? any body i need some help

---

### Post by Gifted_Child on 2008-11-07
i am sorry about that i didnt know i just thought you could voice your problems on here and see if you could get them answerd but you just asked my question but now i have a new one if you dont mind its about the usb memory stick i have how can i download the file i need witch is the downloaded ubuntu v8.10 on my memory stick is there a way to help my ps3 see the file and use it as my other os?

---

