---
title: "11.04 and ATI Radeon 6630 issues"
date: 2011-08-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Oakrraegi on 2011-08-26
Hey there. 1st thing. I'm an incredibly casual user of Linux systems. I'm a senior in high school and I'm not exactly well versed in programming. Im using Ubuntu because I like the drive behind it (open source, free and editable) and the fact that it's a lot more...open than windows

That said

I'm having a lot of issues with the graphics drivers, since the very beginning, which is incredibly frustrating. 
I'm using an HP Envy 14 with the ATI Radeon 6630 card. The proprietary driver that I installed at first immediately disabled unity, which is one of the reasons I liked Ubuntu so much. 

However, using the open-source driver (Though I can't remember what it is) is ridiculously unstable. I ran into more blank screens on start up and reboot than what would make my computer usable. It often took 15 minutes of rebooting in different modes and forced shut downs before I could run 11.04 normally, which seemed to happen randomly

I'm currently reinstalling the OS via flash drive to see if I could wipe my mistakes clean and start anew. 

What should I do about my driver though?

---

### Post by Oakrraegi on 2011-08-26
Should I just give up on using Ubuntu or Unity?

---

### Post by Peter Sam on 2011-08-27
I have little to add but sympathy - I'm faced with the same issue on a Lenovo ThinkPad Edge e520 - a choice between booting every third attempt, or not running Unity. My current approach is to disable the drivers and avoid rebooting as much as possible. I'm having a look around this afternoon and will post back on this thread if I find something. An alternative, equally unsatisfactory, option I've seen suggested is to disable either the ATI or the Intel graphics card in the BIOS.

---

### Post by Peter Sam on 2011-09-03
Well after a lot of furtling around the internet trying various driver combinations etc. I might just have fixed the startup problems by changing the BIOS settings. At startup I pressed the key combination to get into the BIOS settings ("enter" in my case) and selected the display menu - there was an option for "Integrated" or "Switchable" graphics card at start up - I changed this to "Integrated". There is another option to allow the OS to autodetect and use the switchable card once booted, so all I have done is disable the graphics card during the boot sequence. This might work for you too - though bear in mind I'm using a different model of computer.

---

