---
title: "10.10 Frozen 4 times already"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-10-13
Hey all,

I installed 10.10 the evening of the final release (in the US) and it has already frozen on me four times. This is something I would expect from Bill Gates, not Canonical and the Ubuntu team.

Every time I've been doing different but very basic activities. Twice I was in the middle of a Google image search, this past time I was browsing forums while listening to Pandora, and the other time I was checking email in Thunderbird.

My laptop is an HP EliteBook 8530W. Hardware includes:
[LIST]
[*]T9600: 2.8GHz Wolfdale
[*]2 x 2 GB DDR2 800
[*]320 GB 7200RPM Western Digital
[*]Quadro 770m
[/LIST]

By "frozen" I mean completely locked up. I can not switch to a non-graphical user, I can not move the mouse, I can not alt + f4 anything.

Any ideas are happily accepted, as I like many of the changes in 10.10, but I definitely won't be deleting my 10.04 partition til this is fixed.

Thanks,
David

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-10-13
It just crashed on me again, about 10 minutes after booting up.

I was in the middle of reading a pdf file, had Chromium open and Thunderbird.

I'm not sure when exactly it froze, but the first time I noticed was switching desktops from the PDF to Chrome.

I do also have Compiz running with quite a few extra such as desktop cube. My video driver is the recommended one by Ubuntu.

Anyone have any ideas what is causing this?

Thanks,
David

---

### Post by IcarusR on 2010-10-13
The log files would be a good place to start. May be a hint as to what is going on.

Personally I do not rely  any new OS till it has been around for some time to allow bugs to be ironed out. 
I'm on 10.04 but still have my 8.10 partition.

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-10-13
you want me to post the log files here? as in, copy the text in line, or attach it as a document?

---

### Post by gramound on 2010-10-14
It happened 3 times today on my Dell Vostro 1015. I tried:
[LIST]
[*]Ctrl+Alt+F1 to switch to text console (doesn't work)
[*]Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to restart X server (doesn't work)
[*]Remote login with SSH (doesn't work)
[/LIST]

The only thing I could do is press and hold the power button.

The syslog didn't show anything unusual.

Just based on my 3 occurences, I noted 2 similarities:
[LIST=1]
[*]Google Chrome was running (not very likely the cause)
[*]The computer was almost going to sleep (screen dimmed)  but I aborted it by moving the mouse, and it froze shortly after.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by FredDie3785 on 2010-10-14
Got similiar issue. I've got ASUS K70IO and Ubuntu 10.10 under the hood. It hangs randomly, everything freezes. The only thing I've noticed is that the padlock diode is blinking. So it seems that the OS is somewhat locked, but I haven't pressed the button combination for locking.

---

### Post by gramound on 2010-10-14
> **gramound said:**
> 
Just based on my 3 occurences, I noted 2 similarities:
[LIST=1]
[*]Google Chrome was running (not very likely the cause)
[*]The computer was almost going to sleep (screen dimmed)  but I aborted it by moving the mouse, and it froze shortly after.
[/LIST]

Nevermind the Google Chrome, it is not the cause (it just happened again without Chrome running). So my only possible lead is the power saving, but still can't reproduce on-demand...

Any logging options I should turn on?

If it happens to someone else, could you check if the LEDs will react when you plug/unplug the power cable.

---

### Post by zeating on 2010-10-14
only thing i can think of is your power plugged in? it freezes for me when running on battery

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-10-14
> **zeating said:**
> only thing i can think of is your power plugged in? it freezes for me when running on battery

I can't remember whether mine has been plugged in for this. I'll take note of it if it happens again though.

---

### Post by ianmillington on 2010-10-15
Can't say I know the answer to the problem but I am a bit worried when people view the off switch as the only option - the worst case scenario is a trashed filesystem and/or data loss.

Just in case you don't know the computer is unlikely to be completely frozen, although the graphical environment may well be. I recommend you do a soft reboot by holding down the alt and print screen (SysRq) keys together and slowly typing reisub . 

[http://www.brunolinux.com/01-First_Things_To_Know/Skinny_Elephants.html](http://www.brunolinux.com/01-First_Things_To_Know/Skinny_Elephants.html)

The computer will reboot.

Linux really is wonderful, isn't it.

---

### Post by gramound on 2010-10-15
> **zeating said:**
> only thing i can think of is your power plugged in? it freezes for me when running on battery

Same here, I use the laptop all day on power (no crash), then I go home and run on battery (plenty of crash, battery not low).

I never heard of ianmillington's soft reboot key sequence. I can give it a try next time, but I doubt it would make a difference, because the system doesn't seem to receive the keypresses at all (try caps-lock => the caps-lock LED doesn't change).

Last time it froze, I was watching some youtube video, and the last 2 seconds of audio kept playing in loop forever (either my audio chip was doing that on its own, or the OS was still alive and trying to feed it).

The kernel has CONFIG_DETECT_SOFTLOCKUP enabled, so I would expect some kernel messages if it was still alive. Unfortunately, the syslog completely stops. I tried to run the following background process to see if the log would continue, but I couldn't get it to freeze.
```
while true; do sleep 10; logger "still alive at $(date)"; done &
```
(I know the syslog has its own timestamps, the $(date) is just there to bypass the feature that omits redundant messages)

If the OS is still alive, I would also expect remote SSH login to work (unless there is a network problem on top of that). The kernel has CONFIG_PREEMPT_VOLUNTARY enabled, so there is no reason why it couldn't allow some CPU cycles to the SSH daemon, no? Unless someone turned off the IRQs!?

---

### Post by cdillard-hsp on 2010-10-15
Same issue here with an HP Elitebook 8530w and Nvidia card.  Backlight is on but no response from keyboard or mouse movement.  I've enabled SSHd now so next time it happens I'll see if I can get in and find out what's causing it.

**Only thing in the log that looks like it could be relevant is:**
Oct 15 09:34:30 rdx0160 kernel: [   23.896563] ACPI Warning for \_SB_.PCI0.PEGP.DGFX.MXMI: Excess arguments - needs 1, found 2 (20100428/nspredef-319)
Oct 15 09:34:30 rdx0160 kernel: [   23.896609] ACPI Warning for \_SB_.PCI0.PEGP.DGFX.MXMS: Excess arguments - needs 1, found 2 (20100428/nspredef-319)

---

### Post by nikunjm on 2010-10-15
Same problem here... I have a Studio XPS 16. Whenever on battery, the system hangs randomly and the system is unusable.
 
the logs show nothing unusual, however.

---

### Post by gramound on 2010-10-16
> **ianmillington said:**
> I recommend you do a soft reboot by holding down the alt and print screen (SysRq) keys together and slowly typing reisub .

Thanks for the trick, but it didn't work for this case.

This is definitely related to power saving. Any expert? If the OS is that much stuck, there must be something related to the hardware. We need to know what has changed since Ubuntu 10.04 in that area. Any expert?

---

### Post by gramound on 2010-10-16
This might be a red herring, but I noticed one more weirdness while running on battery today: the battery indicator went empty (red icon with the popup warning) and came back to its real level. The syslog didn't print any message about that either.

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-10-16
sure is good to know I'm not the only one with this problem. hope we figure it out soon

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2010-10-17
I dunno, but the freezes sound just like when you overclocked the processor too much, on a desktop. 

I dunno what the problem could be on a laptop with a good battery. Sorry. :(

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-17
Hello, exactly same problem on my Dell XPS 1340.

Do you know whether this has been reported as a bug to Ubutntu developers?

---

### Post by sevenflo on 2010-10-17
I'm not sure how useful my response will be, but I just want to 'help a brotha out.'

If you guys find out it's not just the battery, I'd suggest start finding similarities in the affected hardware. So, what video cards are you guys using, what cpu, what laptop make, and are any desktop users experiencing this?

I'd suggest look deeply into the video card. What happens if you uninstall your restricted drivers? Maybe try a difference set of drivers, if available?

Hope some of that proves useful.

---

### Post by toker_tok on 2010-10-17
i have a medion akoya e1210 running on maverick. I have the exact same problem as well. It occurs on battery power when the screen is supposed to sleep. If it is of any significance, the screensaver does not work on battery power as well, it turns of the screen at the time screensaver is supposed come on, and cannot get out of that, system freezes. A few times also it froze as the screen was dimming as it will sleep...

---

### Post by rezashamdani on 2010-10-17
was hang about 3 times so far from 2 days using maverick. dont know why, but it stop to hang after series of system update.

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-17
> **sevenflo said:**
> I'm not sure how useful my response will be, but I just want to 'help a brotha out.'

If you guys find out it's not just the battery, I'd suggest start finding similarities in the affected hardware. So, what video cards are you guys using, what cpu, what laptop make, and are any desktop users experiencing this?

I'd suggest look deeply into the video card. What happens if you uninstall your restricted drivers? Maybe try a difference set of drivers, if available?

Hope some of that proves useful.


My Dell XPS 1340 have Nvidia GeForce G210M:

02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GT218 [GeForce G210M] (rev a2)
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation C79 [GeForce 9400M G] (rev b1)

I use 64bit Ubuntu Desktop 10.10

NVIDIA Driver Version: 260.19.06

I have following Nvidia configuration in my xorg.conf:

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"

    Option         "Coolbits" "1"
    Option         "RegistryDwords"                "PowerMizerEnable=0x1; PerfLevelSrc=0x2233; PowerMizerDefault=0x3"
    Option         "OnDemandVBlankInterrupts"   "true"
    Option         "NoLogo"        "True"

What do you think?
Thank you.

---

### Post by davrosuk on 2010-10-17
I've had a couple of freezes since the last kernel update on my HTPC. Until the update 10.10 was as good as gold. These are full on freezes too, not a standard panic or segfault. I've checked the logs and theres nothing interesting there - nothing is written at freeze time (or just before). Overnight I'm running a memtest to eliminate [some] hardware - but I doubt thats the issue. My money is on a kernel issue.... 
Assuming the memory is good I'll probably give the mainline kernel PPA a go to test my theory

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-17
Installing latest Nvidia driver 260.19.12 did not solve the problem... I have also tried to disable all power saving features on Nvidia and the problem is still there... I don't think that this is caused by graphics.

---

### Post by silviucc on 2010-10-17
Guys try to ssh into the machine and see if that works. There are issues like this one with 10.04 too. Usually the machine will not accept keyboard/ mouse input, and when using top Xorg will eat 100% CPU time.

Just killing X and restarting gdm will not work entirely as screen corruption may appear (don't know why). It's better to just "sudo reboot".

This seems to be something that has been going on since kernel 2.6.32, 2.6.31 did not have this.

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-17
> **silviucc said:**
> Guys try to ssh into the machine and see if that works. There are issues like this one with 10.04 too. Usually the machine will not accept keyboard/ mouse input, and when using top Xorg will eat 100% CPU time.

Just killing X and restarting gdm will not work entirely as screen corruption may appear (don't know why). It's better to just "sudo reboot".

This seems to be something that has been going on since kernel 2.6.32, 2.6.31 did not have this.

In my case, once it freezes, I am unable to do anything except the hard power off. CPU seems not to be 100%..

---

### Post by silviucc on 2010-10-17
It doesn't even respond to pings ?

---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-10-18
Mine is acting the same way as mentioned not able to ping the computer even setting up the power button to shutdown the computer when pressed fails to work only hard shut downs gets you out of it. 

I am running an i7-740qm nvidia 360m

When I notice this complete lock up of the system is when I start running parallel threads in a program, so maybe whats causing the lock ups on the others are programs trying to do something similar. For me though this did not exsist in 10.04, really sad I spent the time doing a clean install to 10.10. Though I have other issues with this version as well

---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-10-18
Just noticed while trying to figure this out or if I should just go back to 10.04 I noticed that nautilus is using at min 77% mem, highest I saw it flash by at was 83%. It also does not show up consistently in top as being the hog though I have never had to use top much so could be how I am tried using it. But I was not doing anything file related or thing like that I just ran firefox and opened a bunch of tabs of streaming videos and things like that.

Here is a video(not mine) of nautilus memory leak in 10.10 though I did not open anything run by nautilus that I know of, was just firefox and opened new tabs in there and still saw the insane memory use by nautilus while firefox with 14 tabs opened was at the most I noticed 18%

[http://vimeo.com/14327149](http://vimeo.com/14327149)

Also I do not see this same behaviour with 10.10 installed on my old laptop a old dell m140.

To edit some more: 

With doing nothing more than switching to the xubuntu-desktop, most of the issues are fixed, most importantly it does not apear to lock up and freeze and no insane memory usage. Not a real fix to problem but at least a possible work around if you see the same things and need to do something that causes the lock up.

---

### Post by nikunjm on 2010-10-18
It sure is bugging, as i have to use windows. 
 
My specs are 
 
core i7
ATI mobility radeon 5730
broadcom wifi

---

### Post by santiagozky on 2010-10-18
I have the same problem. It freezes randomly when I am on battery power. The computer won't even respond to 'REISUB'. It has never happen to me while on AC.

My system:

Dell studio 15 (1558 )
using the kernel: Linux ubuntu 2.6.35-23-generic #35~kamal~mjgbacklight1-Ubuntu
because of the backlight issue (happens with the offical kernel too)
intel i3
4gb of RAM
I originally installed 10.04 and upgraded to 10.10 with the update-manager

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-18
After today's update the problem still persists :(

---

### Post by ciber_hormaza on 2010-10-18
> **santiagozky said:**
> I have the same problem. It freezes randomly when I am on battery power. The computer won't even respond to 'REISUB'. It has never happen to me while on AC.

My system:

Dell studio 15 (1558 )
using the kernel: Linux ubuntu 2.6.35-23-generic #35~kamal~mjgbacklight1-Ubuntu
because of the backlight issue (happens with the offical kernel too)
intel i3
4gb of RAM
I originally installed 10.04 and upgraded to 10.10 with the update-manager


I have the same problem on mi studio 1558, it can be fixed...but the battery drain to fast....

at start, you should type "e" on the grub menu, and then add "apci=off", then ctrl+x and your dell will work with your battery... I hope it works...

excuse me for my poor english I speak spanish

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-18
I have just found this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1595989](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1595989)

I am going to try it. I have some strange logs in /var/log/messages :


" Marking TSC unstable due to TSC halts in idle "

etc.

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-18
> **ciza said:**
> I have just found this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1595989](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1595989)

I am going to try it. I have some strange logs in /var/log/messages :


" Marking TSC unstable due to TSC halts in idle "

etc.



I tried it but it did not work :-(

---

### Post by toker_tok on 2010-10-18
with the 2.6.35-22 kernel i still have the problem. But with 2.6.32-25 i don't have any problems. How to figure out what changes between these two kernels? I also downloaded and installed the latest daily from kernel:ppa and the problem persists there as well. so i guess i will use maverick with lucid kernel....!!!!

---

### Post by santiagozky on 2010-10-18
> **ciber_hormaza said:**
> I have the same problem on mi studio 1558, it can be fixed...but the battery drain to fast....

at start, you should type "e" on the grub menu, and then add "apci=off", then ctrl+x and your dell will work with your battery... I hope it works...


thanks. I'll try that
> 
excuse me for my poor english I speak spanish

don't worry. Me too :D

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-19
Is this only Dell related problem or is there anybody who is facing such problem with another laptop?

---

### Post by dimoftheyard on 2010-10-19
I had the same problem on my Dell Vostro 1720 (and didn't find this thread, because I thought it was KDE related). It appeared since I upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10. I seem to have fixed the problem by reinstalling kubuntu 10.10. This is not a decent solution, but I am happy I did it, as there were no freezes since that upgrade.
There was one problem though, that was easy to be fixed: I have a GeForce 9600M GS graphics card, and before I installed the closed source driver Xorg once hang. But it was different from this total freeze, as the mouse still worked.

I hope this helps for some of you. Should the freezes happen again I will tell you.

---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-10-19
Mine is a toshiba x505, I have seen the locking up in ubuntu kubuntu 64 bit but everything works like a champ with Xubuntu.

---

### Post by dimoftheyard on 2010-10-20
:( My system just froze again, while I searched in ubuntuforums.org with rekonq. So a new installation does not seem to fix the problem... I'm sorry for the incorrect 'solution', I was just too optimistic after the system had worked for some time.
But it was not as bad as before, because the [skinny Elephants]("http://www.brunolinux.com/01-First_Things_To_Know/Skinny_Elephants.html") did work. Thank you, ianmillington, for that trick. That feels much better than just turning off...
For those who did not find it working: According to the link above you must check that "cat /proc/sys/kernel/sysrq" prints out "1". If it doesn't you can change it with "sudo echo 1 > /proc/sys/kernel/sysrq". I'm not too sure what to make of this, because I have the impression that this setting is lost on a reboot, and if it is, then I should have had a "0" in there, and it still worked...
Anyway. I am obviously not an expert but this trick did a much more pleasant reboot for me, and that makes those feezes much more bearable, I think.

---

### Post by morefeo on 2010-10-20
I'm expecting the same freezes, but also I expect low wifi speed on battery, my laptop is dell studio 1558.

---

### Post by hlxshady on 2010-10-20
I would say, ubuntu is getting more and more disappointing.

The power consumption problem described here
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/524281?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/524281?comments=all)
still exists in 10.10.

I really should have checked before upgrading my system.
If I had known it didn't fix this problem, I'd never update my ubuntu.

Probably it's time to move to FreeBSD or other distributions!!!

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-10-20
My system is updated as of right now (you can check the time of posting), and it just died **while on AC power with the battery also plugged in**. Dunno if this changes anything.

As always, if there are log files you'd like me to post, or anything of the such, let me know how I can help.

---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-10-20
hlxshady, I am with you in your statement. Xubuntu is the only version that seems to still run really good with no issues as it doesnt have most of the bloat that causes these issues for people. At least in my opinion. 

I have been testing a Fedora 13 install now for a few weeks, and the only "problem" I have run into is I had to install my wireless and video driver myself. Not really a "problem" in my book, other than that performance wise and stability it WAY exceeds Ubuntu Kubuntu and is even doing better than the working Xubuntu. I dont see battery issues memory leaks or any of the other things that I did with the the main Ubuntu releases

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-21
Do you know if someone reported this as a bug to the Ubuntu developers?

---

### Post by santiagozky on 2010-10-21
there is a very similar report in launchpad for 10.04. I don't know if a new one should be created
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/batmon.app/+bug/605967](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/batmon.app/+bug/605967)

---

### Post by santiagozky on 2010-10-21
Using a Lucid kernel seems like the best option right now. I havent had any freezes using 2.6.32-24-generic.

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-10-21
> **santiagozky said:**
> Using a Lucid kernel seems like the best option right now. I havent had any freezes using 2.6.32-24-generic.

how do we go about this?

---

### Post by santiagozky on 2010-10-21
Im not sure. I upgraded from lucid so the kernel was there since the upgrade. Perhaps you can get all the deb packages from the repository and install them manually

---

### Post by gramound on 2010-10-23
> **santiagozky said:**
> there is a very similar report in launchpad for 10.04. I don't know if a new one should be created
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/batmon.app/+bug/605967](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/batmon.app/+bug/605967)

If that guy (Thomas) can reproduce the freeze in 1 or 2 seconds, we should definitely start with that, because any potential fix will be quick to test... If his fix doesn't resolve our issue, then we will create a new bug report.

Please all, go to the link above and click "this bug affects me", so that we attract some attentions to this issue.

---

### Post by pgoffa01 on 2010-10-23
I installed 10.10 about a week ago and I was a Mint User before that.  I had Ubuntu freeze when going to sleep too.  While chasing a different bug, I did the

```
sudo apt-get update
```from CLI and for some reason, it grabbed ten or fifteen different updates that hadn't been picked up by the regular update manager.  In any event, I haven't had a freeze since then.  I also had to completely remove Grub2 after a boot problem and after I reinstalled Grub2, the whole system speed has nearly doubled.  Weird.  Maybe it is better to wait...but I had to see what all the hype was about.

---

### Post by rhy7s on 2010-10-23
I've been having the same problem on an Asus Eee PC 901. I think usually it's a little while after returning from suspend.

---

### Post by dimoftheyard on 2010-10-23
@Santiagozky: Unfortunately I cannot confirm this. I just had a freeze with the 2.6.32-22-generic-pae kernel from 10.04. This is really starting to annoy me, I find it hard to use the computer when it freezes every couple of hours.

I have not found any patterns so far. I'm not using the battery, and it does not correlate with suspends either, as far as I can tell.


__

---

### Post by cdillard-hsp on 2010-10-23
I am running an HP Elitebook 8530w with Nvidia Quadro graphics and I think I've solved this issue.  I upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 a few weeks ago so this was not a fresh install.  I found several versions of the Nvidia driver installed and removed all but the nvidia-current.  I rebooted and have not had the issue since.  That was about three days ago.

---

### Post by shemz on 2010-10-23
Same problem, same hardware as the OP. Everything from 10.10 stock repos. Acpi warnings in kernel log. Strangely, the same problem also happens on my Arch install as well. It runs kernel .35.7, xorg 1.9, nvidia 260.x. It started happening after xorg (1.8 -> 1.9) and nvidia (256 -> 260) upgrades.

---

### Post by cdillard-hsp on 2010-10-23
Thought I was out of the woods with this but alas it just happened again so ACPI and/or Nvidia and/or Kernel is causing lock-up/freeze with total CPU saturation, high heat and no choice but to power off hard.

---

### Post by shemz on 2010-10-24
Kernel .35 has known i/o congestion bugs. Unfortunately when the freeze happens, iotop output cannot be seen any more to find out what is going wrong.
Just out of curiosity to know, does the stock ubuntu kernel includes BFS patch? Or is there any way to get a BFS patched precompiled kernel.

---

### Post by Bazon on 2010-10-24
> **vdubhack said:**
> Here is a video(not mine) of nautilus memory leak in 10.10 though I did not open anything run by nautilus that I know of, was just firefox and opened new tabs in there and still saw the insane memory use by nautilus while firefox with 14 tabs opened was at the most I noticed 18%

[http://vimeo.com/14327149](http://vimeo.com/14327149)

Also I do not see this same behaviour with 10.10 installed on my old laptop a old dell m140.

Tested that as well, for me no problem:
16 nautilus windows only use 40MB RAM.

---

### Post by Bazon on 2010-10-24
> **SwimDude0614 said:**
> how do we go about this?

You can get the deb links for the Lucid Kernel via that bug comment also recommending a lucid kernel (for another issue, about suspend):

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/640100/comments/72](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/640100/comments/72)
Just scroll down and click amd64 (64bit) or i386 (32bit).

Works very well on my netbook and solved the suspend issue. :-)

---

### Post by caan on 2010-10-25
I'm experiencing similar problems to posted in a couple of posts here. I'm using Kubuntu 10.10, and after the freeze I'm only capable of moving the cursor around the screen, even caps-lock doesn't turn keyboard's led on or off. The rest of the system seems to work properly, Amarok plays music, networking runs etc.

I believe that the cause of the freeze is xorg and am not sure if it is connected to power management, Xorg.0.log shows:

[  4311.812] [mi] EQ overflowing. The server is probably stuck in an infinite loop.

I'm using a desktop computer and during such hangup log into it through ssh in order to perform a soft reset. 'Top' shows the xorg process eating whole CPU. Killing xorg and restarting KDM brings me back to it's login screen, but after logon xorg hangs immediately again.

There is a bug reported with identical symptoms to mine:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/660273](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/660273)

If you feel that this is your case, please append to the list of affected users.

Regards,
--
Mike

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-25
The issue originally reported in this thread is a little different I guess. On my Dell XPS 1340 the freeze is TOTAL. I can not move by mouse and do nothing than hard shutdown. It happens just couple of seconds after disconnect power supply and the system switches on battery. Also it happens when I start computer from battery. Once I try to connect network the system freezes.

Is there any reported BUG related to this issue?

---

### Post by Ed Richards on 2010-10-25
I'm having the same problem on my Asus EeePC 1000HEB, but has been happening while running on AC power. Had no problem with 10.4.

Ed 
Baton Rouge, La

---

### Post by ciber_hormaza on 2010-10-26
> **ciza said:**
> The issue originally reported in this thread is a little different I guess. On my Dell XPS 1340 the freeze is TOTAL. I can not move by mouse and do nothing than hard shutdown. It happens just couple of seconds after disconnect power supply and the system switches on battery. Also it happens when I start computer from battery. Once I try to connect network the system freezes.

Is there any reported BUG related to this issue?

 Ciza the problem is exactly the same, the system get totally freeze..no mouse no keyboard and you have to shutdown whit hardware button

---

### Post by gramound on 2010-10-27
Anyone had an occurrence of the (complete) freeze while not on WiFi? It seems to be related, but I haven't spent enough time offline to be 100% sure.

> **ciza said:**
> Is there any reported BUG related to this issue?

ciza: please visit the following link and click "this bug affects me"
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/batmon.app/+bug/605967](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/batmon.app/+bug/605967)
It's not 100% same symptoms, but it is a good place to start.

---

### Post by ciza on 2010-10-27
> **gramound said:**
> Anyone had an occurrence of the (complete) freeze while not on WiFi? It seems to be related, but I haven't spent enough time offline to be 100% sure.



ciza: please visit the following link and click "this bug affects me"
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/batmon.app/+bug/605967](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/batmon.app/+bug/605967)
It's not 100% same symptoms, but it is a good place to start.


I have clicked. Thanks!

---

### Post by marzof on 2010-10-28
Hi,
 since I updated to Ubuntu Maverick my Toshiba Satellite P10 (Pentium4 2.80GHz, RAM 1,5GiB whit an old 32MB ATI Mobility Radeon 9700) continually froze (a lot times in a day). I tried  changing mouse, power supply,  previous kernel, I checked my RAM and I took care about pc's overheating. Nothing is changed.
 Finally I've located the problem in the graphic card driver. I've unchecked the ATI packages in the Synaptic and, since then, no more freeze is occurred. The graphical behavior of my pc is got a little worse but I can use everything (youtube, firefox, gimp, blender!) and I hardly notice the difference.

---

### Post by dotdot on 2010-10-28
it's not a good story this one is it? 

alas - that's the price of ... progress / upgrade.

worked fine on 10.4... on 10.10 i leave it for 20mins and it dies...
all it leaves me with is a flashing cursor.... 

total power off.. required.

no errors anywhere.... 

any idea of creating a crash dump for this kind of box... get the feeling a few other might be thinking the same.

cheers

..

---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-10-29
For me my lock up issue was related to the rtl8192se driver once that was removed from my system all has been kosher.

---

### Post by hlxshady on 2010-10-30
[FONT="Georgia"]Does anyone think ubuntu is moving towards windows now?

I don't mean the user friendly aspect, but in terms of ... stability, performance.




PS: I'm not someone suffering from this frozen problem. I'm just curious to see how this kind of vital issues are being treated, just like the high load balance tick (short battery life) problem I am suffering ...[/FONT]

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-10-30
Welcome to the club, there is a thread with 1000+ posts about this freezing prob. I have 10.04 & although rarely, it happens to me. No apparent cause, no real info about fixing it yet. I love Ubuntu, but this is making me miss OpenSuSE. I had OS for years & only freezes I ever got were app. freezes & I killed them, then went on doing stuff.

---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-10-30
> **hlxshady said:**
> [FONT=Georgia]Does anyone think ubuntu is moving towards windows now?

I don't mean the user friendly aspect, but in terms of ... stability, performance.




PS: I'm not someone suffering from this frozen problem. I'm just curious to see how this kind of vital issues are being treated, just like the high load balance tick (short battery life) problem I am suffering ...[/FONT]

  There is a big difference Ubuntu has mainly all volunteers doing these fixes and continuing the cause. Windows workers are paid for their time and blood. Yes they are trying to appeal to more windows users but at the same time pulling in new users means they need more people to volunteer their time to fix issues that may or may not have been around for awhile. Join up and help make Ubuntu better if you dont like something about it, thats what I did :)   For those with lock up issues please check your wifi chipset and if its a realtek remove the driver reboot and try using your comp again to see if the lock is gone. My locks ups are and were only related to a memory leak issue with driver from Ubuntu and from realtek. I have been testing driver versions for about a week now for realtek and slowly gaining ground. I have finally got a working patch for the realteks version they last sent that has been working for a day solid now with no lock up.    Best way to sort out lock ups are to one at a time remove non ubuntu drivers and testing again. Took me 3 days before thinking the wifi driver could be causing such a memory leak. Also if your on an i7 chip read your logs and make sure its all being recognized properly that was another issue I ran into. :) Hope this helps some

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-10-31
> **vdubhack said:**
> There is a big difference Ubuntu has mainly all volunteers doing these fixes and continuing the cause. Windows workers are paid for their time and blood. Yes they are trying to appeal to more windows users but at the same time pulling in new users means they need more people to volunteer their time to fix issues that may or may not have been around for awhile. Join up and help make Ubuntu better if you dont like something about it, thats what I did :)   For those with lock up issues please check your wifi chipset and if its a realtek remove the driver reboot and try using your comp again to see if the lock is gone. My locks ups are and were only related to a memory leak issue with driver from Ubuntu and from realtek. I have been testing driver versions for about a week now for realtek and slowly gaining ground. I have finally got a working patch for the realteks version they last sent that has been working for a day solid now with no lock up.    Best way to sort out lock ups are to one at a time remove non ubuntu drivers and testing again. Took me 3 days before thinking the wifi driver could be causing such a memory leak. Also if your on an i7 chip read your logs and make sure its all being recognized properly that was another issue I ran into. :) Hope this helps some

My Wifi is not realtek though, it is atherose. I still get freezes.

---

### Post by cdillard-hsp on 2010-10-31
> **vdubhack said:**
> There is a big difference Ubuntu has mainly all volunteers doing these fixes and continuing the cause. Windows workers are paid for their time and blood. Yes they are trying to appeal to more windows users but at the same time pulling in new users means they need more people to volunteer their time to fix issues that may or may not have been around for awhile. Join up and help make Ubuntu better if you dont like something about it, thats what I did :)   For those with lock up issues please check your wifi chipset and if its a realtek remove the driver reboot and try using your comp again to see if the lock is gone. My locks ups are and were only related to a memory leak issue with driver from Ubuntu and from realtek. I have been testing driver versions for about a week now for realtek and slowly gaining ground. I have finally got a working patch for the realteks version they last sent that has been working for a day solid now with no lock up.    Best way to sort out lock ups are to one at a time remove non ubuntu drivers and testing again. Took me 3 days before thinking the wifi driver could be causing such a memory leak. Also if your on an i7 chip read your logs and make sure its all being recognized properly that was another issue I ran into. :) Hope this helps some

How do we sign up to help?  I'm a genius!  

Still having this issue and I'd like to contribute to solving it.  It happened to me twice last night at the data center in the middle of work!  What seemed to initiate it last night was repeated scrolling in Google Chrome browser.  I probably scrolled down page 20 times doing some WAN-Op config changes (web based administration) and my notebook just froze.  No flashing lights, no mouse no ability to use keyboard (even REISUB sysreq didn't work).  When this happens, less frequently since the last week or two, I have to hold down the power and hard cycle it.

I'm running an HP 8530W notebook with Nvidia Quadro 570 card with stock 10.10 Ubuntu repo driver (says Beta Driver when GDM starts during boot up), all Intel net adapters and Ubuntu 10.10 x86_64.  Nothing obvious in the logs either.

---

### Post by ciber_hormaza on 2010-10-31
Hi, I have a possible solution....today i tried starting without compiz...and u have 10 hours, batterry and ac continuous...and work fine...so I invite all to activate compiz only on ac work....excuseme for my poor english I speak spanish

---

### Post by ciber_hormaza on 2010-10-31
> **ciber_hormaza said:**
> Hi, I have a possible solution....today i tried starting without compiz...and u have 10 hours, batterry and ac continuous...and work fine...so I invite all to activate compiz only on ac work....excuseme for my poor english I speak spanish

Please log in here and join in to the afected people...
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/662998](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/662998)

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-11-03
> **cdillard-hsp said:**
> I'm running an HP 8530W notebook with Nvidia Quadro 570 card with stock 10.10 Ubuntu repo driver (says Beta Driver when GDM starts during boot up), all Intel net adapters and Ubuntu 10.10 x86_64.  Nothing obvious in the logs either.

This is depressing. Sounds like reinstalling probably won't make a difference. A lot of the users, including me, in this thread have this model.

---

### Post by shemz on 2010-11-03
If anyone is still wondering, shifting to nouveau solves the problem. My computer has not frozen in over two days now. Nouveau is not the best solution for non idealists (high cpu and power usage than nvidia drivers), but at least the computer is usable again. And yes I also have hp 8530w.

---

### Post by cheetah on 2010-11-04
I also have an HP 8530w and only experienced this issue after the upgrade to 10.10.  
I tried the solution described on another thread ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10017399&postcount=1192](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10017399&postcount=1192)) and so far it seems to work for me.  Sometimes too soon to tell because the freezes are random.  I used to get them +- once per day.. touch wood - haven't had one in a couple of days now.

The suggestion sets the preferred mode of the PowerMizer to "Prefer Maximum Performance", rather than "Adaptive".  I'm only doing this through the NVIDIA X Server Settings utility (haven't changed any config files yet).  Take note that I have to apply this setting each time after a restart.  Setting it in the utility doesn't seem to persist it across restarts.

---

### Post by linux18 on 2010-11-04
anyone suggest memtest

---

### Post by BlueDandelion on 2010-11-04
Does this error only occur with Ubuntu or also with Kubuntu and Xubuntu?

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-11-04
> **BlueDandelion said:**
> Does this error only occur with Ubuntu or also with Kubuntu and Xubuntu?

I have wondered if it is a Gnome thing, but I am sure I saw posts about Kubuntu doing it to though... It just sucks, cause this is a great OS & I love it otherwise. Good thing it barely freezes on me.

---

### Post by krazyd on 2010-11-06
> **edward1978 said:**
> I have wondered if it is a Gnome thing, but I am sure I saw posts about Kubuntu doing it to though... It just sucks, cause this is a great OS & I love it otherwise. Good thing it barely freezes on me.

It's a bit harsh to blame *buntu for something which is completely out of their hands. Bad proprietary drivers are entirely Nvidia's fault. This is the exact reason that the kernel is marked as 'tainted' when nvidia (or any proprietary) modules are loaded - they are impossible to debug.

[http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/tainted.html](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/tainted.html)

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-11-06
> **krazyd said:**
> It's a bit harsh to blame *buntu for something which is completely out of their hands. Bad proprietary drivers are entirely Nvidia's fault. This is the exact reason that the kernel is marked as 'tainted' when nvidia (or any proprietary) modules are loaded - they are impossible to debug.

[http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/tainted.html](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/tainted.html)

I got freezes without the Nvidia video driver activated also & I have used SuSE 8.0-OpenSuSE 10 for like many years without system wide freezes. I have always had a Nvidia graphics card to. My dad has Nvidia graphics & Ubuntu, he never had freezes. I have no ill feeling towards the Ubuntu team.

---

### Post by toker_tok on 2010-11-06
I still have the freezes when I run 2.6.35-22 kernel. When I run it with the lucid kernel it works. I have seen elsewhere that people have issues of freezes due to the wireless driver. So I decided to kill nm-applet, after disabling networking. I tested for a while no freeze. Then I put up the ethernet card with ifconfig. Tested for a while no freezes. Finally I enabled the wireless with ifconfig did not even connect just enabled it. It took like five minutes to get a freeze. This pins down the problem to my wireless card, the driver and the kernel. I have a ralink wireless card and it runs using rt2860sta as the driver. Somehow it must be how the driver interacts with the kernel, since with 2.6.32-25, the lucid kernel it works fine. I had problems with wireless when I first upgraded and when I replaced the firmware from ubuntu with the one from ralink it worked. I get the freezes with the driver from ralink as well. Let me stop the ramblings here. I thought someone whose more familiar with the details of the interactions of the kernel, the wireless driver and the card may get an idea from all this.

---

### Post by vdubhack on 2010-11-06
I agree mine its wireless related. I have a rtl8191se chip though in mine and once you remove the driver for it, You never get any lock ups or freezes put the wireless driver back in and locks up everytime. I also noticed like you that does not matter if the wireless is even connected or not. 

I am on .35-23 Kernel that was just updated again last night and still no changes in it. Sucks wireless makes a laptop unusable unless you buy a separate USB adapter.

I have seen the same behavior on 10.04, 10.10 . As well on my Fedora 13 and 14 installs.

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-11-07
> **vdubhack said:**
> I agree mine its wireless related. I have a rtl8191se chip though in mine and once you remove the driver for it, You never get any lock ups or freezes put the wireless driver back in and locks up everytime. I also noticed like you that does not matter if the wireless is even connected or not. 

I am on .35-23 Kernel that was just updated again last night and still no changes in it. Sucks wireless makes a laptop unusable unless you buy a separate USB adapter.

I have seen the same behavior on 10.04, 10.10 . As well on my Fedora 13 and 14 installs.
I am using the NDISwrapper to use to windows driver would the linux driver make any difference?

---

### Post by vbendig on 2010-11-10
Hi, I got similar problem with my laptop dell 1558.  Gnome just freezes and I have to hit the power button to reboot.

It seems to be fixed by changing power management options for the "on battery" section.  I put all in never, and unchecked the "spin down hd when possible" option.

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-11-10
For the record, I've never seen it die on me while running on battery power. In fact, that's always my safety - if I have to boot it up, I unplug the power cord. But, I'm trying to save long-term battery life so I booting into it as much as possible.

If there is a setting in the power options you'd like me to try, let me know. Here's my current set up (been using these settings since 8.10 w/o problems until now)

On A/C:
Never sleep/shutdown, blank screen on lid close, never spindown HDD, never dim, blank screen after 30min

On battery:
Sleep after 30min, blank screen on lid close, spin down HDD, half brightness + extra dim when idle

---

### Post by cain071546 on 2010-11-10
same problem with a Toshiba M305d
AMD Turion X2 Dual core
ATI HD 3100 
2gigs ram
240gig HD


same thing random freezes 
COMPLETELY RANDOM/NO MATTER WHAT DRIVER

does not matter what im doing 
ive been having same problem since 10.04
ive noticed NO PATTERN to the freezes 
And there complete system lockups NO ability to do anything but
a HARD REBOOT 

any help is appreciated

---

### Post by arvevans on 2010-11-10
Same problem here with an older Toshiba Tecra.  

I fixed my freeze ups by going to Synaptic Package Manager and installing the ACPI files that are specific to Toshiba laptops.

In my case I am convinced that the lock-ups were due to ACPI problems when power was low, or when hibernating & trying to recover.
_._

---

### Post by kmiyer on 2010-11-11
> **SwimDude0614 said:**
> For the record, I've never seen it die on me while running on battery power.

I think this suggests that there might be many underlying causes for this. I've got a Dell (1557) and I've seen exactly the same behavior reported above (freezes occur on battery power, when the power hits a transition point for spinning down disks). I've just changed to the recommended settings and will report back if it fixes problems (but I'm hopeful).

---

### Post by ricou on 2010-11-12
My HP 8530w with Ubuntu 10.10 also froze every two days (I am always plugged on AC). It never happened with 10.4. I have to look how to downgrade...

And the middle mouse button does not work (see another thread), so two very good reasons to quit 10.10.

---

### Post by tk189 on 2010-11-12
Yep this problem is affecting me too. Firstly on 10.04 and now after 3 weeks running ok on 10.10 it began the other day :O(

I have noticed in the the last few hours purely by chance that the file i was editing just an index.php file on a site i'm designing and just using gedit text editor that the file in question suddenly went read-only on it's own!!!

I quickly checked other files i'd been editing and they were the same. I managed to try to rename a file and wasn't allowed to do so (permissions) and then the thing froze up on me. No keyboard, mouse moves and dock icons continue interact with hovering over them and clicking but nothing launches, unable to restart or shut down a hard reset is required or shock horror pull the plug and reboot.

9 times out of 10 the reboot fails giving me a busybox thing and the Try passing init= bootarg warning I've seen mention of across these forums.

Live CD and chroot in to purge and reinstall grub... reboot. All ok for minutes only sometime, other times hours.

The sudden read-only thing has occurred each time my pc has frozen today.

Not on a lap top - it's a quad core athlon pc
Not dual booting with Windows - 100% ubuntu
Still using the included drivers not the nVidia ones as they caused problems when i was using 10.04
not on wifi

Is it possible that if the whole file-system is suddenly going read-only for whatever reason then things that need to be executable or writable within the OS would cause it to lock up this way?

The whole freezing and subsequent boot errors are seriously driving me away from ubuntu, a direction i don't want to go - I love the OS apart from these issues.

PS as a side note and I've mentioned it elsewhere I have 10.04 installed on an ancient pc in my home office and it's fine, glitch free. Just an old heap that's too slow to really use for work... go figure.

---

### Post by Hossam86 on 2010-11-13
I was having same problem so I use this kernel [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.36-maverick/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.36-maverick/) and it's work great.

---

### Post by nikunjm on 2010-11-14
how do you get ati caytalyst  working with that kernel??

---

### Post by morefeo on 2010-11-14
I've disabled the acpi-support service and, for now, I've not experienced any freezes on battery.

If somebody has the same issue as me, try to disable that service, in my case this is what happened:
- with a/c adapter there were no freezes, never.
- a/c adapter and after booting disconnect it, no freezes.
- on battery from the start up, freezes randomly after login.

Sorry for my english, hope this help.

---

### Post by kmiyer on 2010-11-15
> **kmiyer said:**
> I've just changed to the recommended settings and will report back if it fixes problems (but I'm hopeful).

Looks to work. Post-change I've had no crashes.

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-11-15
> **kmiyer said:**
> Looks to work. Post-change I've had no crashes.

Cool, what did you do?

---

### Post by kmiyer on 2010-11-15
I followed vbendig's advice:

> **vbendig said:**
> 
It seems to be fixed by changing power management options for the "on battery" section.  I put all in never, and unchecked the "spin down hd when possible" option.

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-11-16
> **kmiyer said:**
> I followed vbendig's advice:

Crap, have a desktop & shut of ACPI, still froze...

---

### Post by hakapeszi on 2010-11-22
I installed 64bit meerkat with wubi on a Dell Vostro 1015.
It seems to have problem with USB devices. If I don't plug in anything then no problem. As soon as I try to use mobile internet or external hdd I have 90%+ chance to freeze and not even reisub helps. I had a 32bit intrepid dvd to test with and it looked stable. I'll try the 32bit meerkat then the 10.04 versions...

---

### Post by vswee on 2010-11-22
i've got and ati graphics card, probably legacy i think it's a radon 9700 or something. anyway, i don't have any proprietary drivers loaded for it (that i know of) and my system often freezes. 
any help you guys can offer would be greatly appreciated, thanks!

---

### Post by hakapeszi on 2010-11-22
> **hakapeszi said:**
> I installed 64bit meerkat with wubi on a Dell Vostro 1015.
It seems to have problem with USB devices. If I don't plug in anything then no problem. As soon as I try to use mobile internet or external hdd I have 90%+ chance to freeze and not even reisub helps. ...

I just got the news: on AC it was working but as soon as the cable was out the laptop died. The USB modem was in so it looks like an extension of the power management syndrome!

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2010-11-22
am I only the one having problems on A/C power, and not having problems on battery power?

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-11-23
> **SwimDude0614 said:**
> am I only the one having problems on A/C power, and not having problems on battery power?

Nope it is freezing with me also, most times just mouse, others whole system.

---

### Post by WinRiddance on 2010-11-23
Read through all of these pages and can only respond by saying that I've experienced so many problems with 10.10 on my HP laptop that I ended up reverting back to Ubuntu 10.04 yesterday instead. Seems like tons of people are experiencing major problems with this release ... and I even waited 5 weeks to make sure that the worst bugs would be ironed out.

Just back up all of your user files and personal stuff, followed by installing or reinstalling Ubuntu 10.04 (again). I really didn't notice enough of a difference between the two versions (none, aside from boot-up speed) to justify having to work around all of these sudden new problems. Good luck.

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-11-24
> **WinRiddance said:**
> Read through all of these pages and can only respond by saying that I've experienced so many problems with 10.10 on my HP laptop that I ended up reverting back to Ubuntu 10.04 yesterday instead. Seems like tons of people are experiencing major problems with this release ... and I even waited 5 weeks to make sure that the worst bugs would be ironed out.

Just back up all of your user files and personal stuff, followed by installing or reinstalling Ubuntu 10.04 (again). I really didn't notice enough of a difference between the two versions (none, aside from boot-up speed) to justify having to work around all of these sudden new problems. Good luck.

The bad part is I have 10.04 & am freezing. :(

---

### Post by nikunjm on 2010-11-25
new kernel update today!!! will see if it was of any help

---

### Post by edward1978 on 2010-11-25
> **nikunjm said:**
> new kernel update today!!! will see if it was of any help

Not for me!!! This is getting old, I love Ubuntu, but I am hearing Mint doesn't freeze, so that is tempting. Well I uninstalled Ubuntu one, I heard that might be at fault. Hope it fixes it. Just search on Google, the forum messes up the link when I save the post. Type "uninstalling ubuntu one" in google & it is the 3rd one, it should say  **[How to [B]Uninstall** Ubuntu One from Ubuntu 10.04]("http://tutorial.*****************/how-to-uninstall-ubuntu-one-from-ubuntu-10-04.html")[/B]

---

### Post by nikunjm on 2010-12-05
downgrading pm_utils to lucid version (1.3) has been encouraging so far...
4 hours on battery and not a freeze yet. using usb and wireless.

---

### Post by miguelfv on 2010-12-07
[nikunjm]("http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1167961"), has the downgrade worked? or did it crash again?

Thanks, Miguel

---

### Post by hakapeszi on 2010-12-08
> **hakapeszi said:**
> I just got the news: on AC it was working but as soon as the cable was out the laptop died. The USB modem was in so it looks like an extension of the power management syndrome!

By downgrading to the lucid kernel it's stable since 2 weeks.
I'll test the pm_utils downgrade when I have time.

---

### Post by nikunjm on 2010-12-09
> **miguelfv said:**
> [nikunjm]("http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1167961"), has the downgrade worked? or did it crash again?

Thanks, Miguel

yes it has been stable for a while now.... no crashes or freezes in the last few days.

---

### Post by KernelSpace on 2010-12-10
Here is a long thread (1000+ posts) discussing the same issue
[http://newyork.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787&page=153](http://newyork.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787&page=153)

Maybe we can combine our efforts and submit more growing bug reports here
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/662998](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/662998)

PS: I am running Debian Squeeze/Testing and experiencing the same problem

---

### Post by SwimDude0614 on 2011-02-23
Does anyone with the HP EliteBook know if this problem was fixed?

For what its worth, I've been running 11.04 Alpha for the last couple months and this problem does not exist, so there is definitely hope.

---

### Post by cdillard-hsp on 2011-02-23
I have an HP Elitebook 8530w and suffered from this for way too long.  I upgraded the pm-utils to the version in 11.04 and still had the problem.  Then I updated the BIOS Rompaq to the latest version several days ago and have not had the lockup/freeze since.  I've suspended and resumed many times since then and have gone from A/C power to batter many times without issue.

---

