---
title: "Touchpad with GSynaptics on Acer laptop"
date: 2008-12-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by fogelfink on 2008-12-31
I am running Intrepid on an Acer Aspire5720Z laptop and have GSynaptics installed, because I thought that would be the easiest way to configure the behaviour of my touchpad.

When I try to open GSynaptics, however I get the error message that:
"GSynaptics couldn't initialize.  You have to set 'SHMConfig 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config to use GSynaptics"
Looking at my etc/x11/xorg.conf file I am surprised that no values for the touchpad are specified at all!  The content is as follows:
>    # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

My question is thus, how do I configure this file to be able to use GSynaptics, or is there a better way to go about configuring the behaviour of the touchpad (obviously it is handled in some other config at the moment, because the touchpad works).

Thanks for your help and happy new year!

---

### Post by Rohan Kapoor on 2008-12-31
> **fogelfink said:**
> I am running Intrepid on an Acer Aspire5720Z laptop and have GSynaptics installed, because I thought that would be the easiest way to configure the behaviour of my touchpad.

When I try to open GSynaptics, however I get the error message that:
"GSynaptics couldn't initialize.  You have to set 'SHMConfig 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config to use GSynaptics"
Looking at my etc/x11/xorg.conf file I am surprised that no values for the touchpad are specified at all!  The content is as follows:


My question is thus, how do I configure this file to be able to use GSynaptics, or is there a better way to go about configuring the behaviour of the touchpad (obviously it is handled in some other config at the moment, because the touchpad works).

Thanks for your help and happy new year!
Allright I presonally haven't used gsynaptics because my touchpad worked fine out of the box. I do know that the xorg.conf doesn't handle any mouse, keyboard, touchpad stuff in 8.10.

Here's a guide that should work: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6077309&postcount=121](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6077309&postcount=121)

---

