---
title: "12.04 update and now no cdrom"
date: 2012-05-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by stainless_steel on 2012-05-20
I just updated to 12.04 on my laptop and now it can't recognize that i have a CDROM. The eject command doesnt work, even if i open it and put a CD in there I hear it spin up but nothing mounts. I can't find the CDROM itself anywhere in /dev
the eject command was always iffy but if i restarted I could eject and I was always able to stick a CD or DVD in and it would mount right up. 
can anyone help?

dave@dave-m15x:~$ eject
eject: unable to find or open device for: `cdrom'

thanks.

hardware: Alienware M15x

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-20
> **stainless_steel said:**
> I just updated to 12.04 on my laptop and now it can't recognize that i have a CDROM. The eject command doesnt work, even if i open it and put a CD in there I hear it spin up but nothing mounts. I can't find the CDROM itself anywhere in /dev
the eject command was always iffy but if i restarted I could eject and I was always able to stick a CD or DVD in and it would mount right up. 
can anyone help?

dave@dave-m15x:~$ eject
eject: unable to find or open device for: `cdrom'

thanks.

hardware: Alienware M15x

Do you have another cd player to try, if sketchy at times already I wonder if it needs a cleaning, or is just failing.

Boot a live cd and see if you get the same results.

---

### Post by stainless_steel on 2012-05-20
thanks for the quick response and good idea with the live CD. (i dont have another cd rom to stick in there)

i put in my ancient copy of WinXP, rebooted and it had no trouble at all. i just booted back up into ubuntu, stuck my DVD in there and now it mounts and plays it... what the heck?

---

### Post by taurean1192 on 2012-06-02
Even I am facing a similar problem.. could you please elaborate on how to handle the situation?

---

### Post by crazybear on 2012-12-23
No one seems to be responding to this thread. I just updated 10.04 to 12.04 and thought all was going [fairly]....many, MANY bugs...but could handle each. Then I was requested over and over when installing software to put in my install CD - which I did and discovered the CD-ROM was not being recognized. A very simple 'fix' was offered....add some lines to terminal, reboot and then add two more lines and voila'....BUT after reboot the computer will:
 - not boot up so I can complete the lines needed for seeing the CD-ROM
and
 - sees EVERY key on the keyboard incorrectly! - so can't do a damn thing!

HELP!

Personally, I was VERY happy with 11.04 and am very disappointed with 12.04.

---

### Post by The_Cunning_Stunt on 2012-12-28
I am running Ubuntu 12.10
When I connect an external CD drive via USB, 
Ubuntu fails to recognise it - well it recognises it, but won't communicate with it.

Typing the command 
$ lsusb
```

Bus 001 Device 003: ID 05e3:0701 Genesys Logic, Inc. USB 2.0 IDE Adapter
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 046d:c52e Logitech, Inc. 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

```Typing the following command 
$ dmesg | tail
```

[  587.320038] usb 1-6: new high-speed USB device number 4 using ehci_hcd
[  587.453480] usb 1-6: New USB device found, idVendor=05e3, idProduct=0701
[  587.453488] usb 1-6: New USB device strings: Mfr=0, Product=1, SerialNumber=0
[  587.453493] usb 1-6: Product: USB TO IDE
[  587.454496] usb-storage 1-6:1.0: Quirks match for vid 05e3 pid 0701: 520
[  587.454563] scsi3 : usb-storage 1-6:1.0
[  588.453547] scsi 3:0:0:0: CD-ROM            TEAC     DW-224E-A        A.2F PQ: 0 ANSI: 0
[  588.457528] sr0: scsi3-mmc drive: 61x/61x writer cd/rw xa/form2 cdda tray
[  588.457926] sr 3:0:0:0: Attached scsi CD-ROM sr0
[  588.458197] sr 3:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg1 type 5

```Inserting an audio Cd then typing the following command
$ udisks --mount /dev/sr0
```

Mount failed: Error mounting: mount: no medium found on /dev/sr0

```Inserting a DVD and typing the following command
$ sudo udisks --mount /dev/sr0
```

Mount failed: Error mounting: mount: block device /dev/sr0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
mount: /dev/sr0: can't read superblock
```

I am a noob so I don't understand what I am doing wrong?

---

### Post by Warprunner on 2013-01-17
Not sure your doing anything wrong. The same has happened to me. 
Researching here and on the web is not giving me anything.

::BUMP::  Please Help!!!

:confused:   :cry:

---

