---
title: "10.10 freezing a couple of times a day"
date: 2011-11-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by legendbb on 2011-11-02
10.10 on i7 2.8GHz, 4Gb Ram, 4Gb swap,

All of sudden system acting like freezing down.
No heavy things running, Chrome with about 5 tabs open.
Could not find any clue by looking at top or processes, memory are fine, could it be hard drive access problem?

It seems happening more often when waking up from an idling of a couple minutes. Most of time the 2nd monitor goes dark. After CPU burst passes, everything comes back to normal.

**[COLOR=Red] [COLOR=DarkRed]Can any one please give me some hint on how to troubleshoot this?[/COLOR][/COLOR]**
Reinstall or upgrade is definitely out of the question at this moment.

Great thanks,

---

### Post by foresthill on 2011-11-02
Have you tried running Memtest from either the Grub boot screen or the install disc? Could be a bad stick of RAM, especially if it's an older machine.  

Might also be a hardware problem like a graphics chip or CPU overheating or failing. Good luck.

---

### Post by legendbb on 2012-09-14
Just to add some update, after almost a year.

Just opened up the tower, swapped RAM stick, and did a 2 hours test of no error. Changed SATA slots.

Problem remains. I could only imagining there are something wrong with my CPU (i7 930 2.8GHz)

I didn't suspect my Ubuntu 10.10 at all, but I could not reinstall it anyways.

---

### Post by Andrew_P on 2012-09-14
It could be due to aging low-ESR electrolytic capacitors on the mainboard, especially if the machine is older than 5 years and/or has operated in a hot environment for much of its life.

I recently had a Shuttle XPC machine with AMD processor completely croak on me.  It limped along for over a year with mysterious hangs and Firefox and SeaMonkey browser crashes.  Strangely, most programs ran flawlessly and Memtest86 never showed any problems, up to the day that the machine stopped booting entirely.  It turns out that Shuttle used cheap, off-brand electrolytic capacitors from a Taiwan company named Ostor to shave costs, and these have been known to cause grief for many computer owners.  In the early 2000s there was a rash of failures wherein the electrolytics would burst open and ooze electrolyte over themselves and the circuit board.  This has sometimes been called "[capacitor plague"]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capacitor_plague").  The capacitors on my Shuttle mainboard look good, but I suspect they've dried out and lost performance.  Since I've grown fond of the capabilities and small form factor of that machine, I'm going to try to resurrect it by replacing all the 680 µF and larger electrolytics with capacitors from Rubycon and Nichicon.  You can read more about this problem and solutions at [capacitorlab.com]("http://www.capacitorlab.com/") and [badcaps.net]("http://www.badcaps.net/http://www.badcaps.net/") and decide if that's something you want to pursue.  However, unless there's a pressing need to keep the old hardware alive, it may be easier, cheaper and safer to get a new mainboard.

---

### Post by BrianBlaze on 2012-09-14
I believe it could be an overheating problem since my buddy has the same problem and his PC runs super HOT! 

This is a program that can check your temperatures!
```

sudo apt-get install lm-sensors
sensors-detect
sensors

```check out how hot u really are ;)

---

