---
title: "NVidia video drivers and resolution odyssey"
date: 2009-09-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ValTM on 2009-09-24
Hello guys,

I bet you all are sick of those kind of threads since i am the next random guy with the same problem.

So here it comes:
I got Ubuntu 9.04 installed, it was running fine on 1024x768 on my old CRT Eizo monitor, but at 60hz. As many of you know 60Hz on CRT monitor is a suicide. In nvidia-settings i didn't have the choice to higher the refresh rate, neither manual edit in xorg.conf did any good. So i decided to install the latest nvidia drivers (185.something) in hope to find my desired refresh rate.
Well, no.
Right now i am on 640x480_60hz and can't even put the resolution to normal or higher (the damn 10 years old monitor supports 2048x1152 and up to 100hz refresh rate!!!).
Right now the contents of my current xorg.conf are:
> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Fri Aug 14 17:54:58 PDT 2009

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Fri Aug 14 17:55:55 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9800 GT"
    Option         "ModeValidation" "NoTotalSizeCheck"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0"
    Option         "ModeDebug" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

I manually edited 
Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0", before it was 
Option         "metamodes" "640x480_60 +0+0", but no effect.
And here is what lshw tells about my display:
>            *-display
                description: VGA compatible controller
                product: GeForce 9800 GT
                vendor: nVidia Corporation
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
                version: a2
                width: 64 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
                configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0 module=nvidia
Since i am a bit lost i have no idea how to continue further. I want to achieve 1024x768 at 85 or 100hz refresh rate. Please help me with this :)

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-09-24
Are you using native graphics drivers directly from nVidia? And what version are you using?

---

### Post by ValTM on 2009-09-24
I am using the latest ones from nVidia.com - 185.18.36

---

### Post by unmole on 2009-09-24
I strongly suggest you follow this instead [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-09-24
If you installed the driver the correct way you definitely should have a higher resolution than 640x480. I don't know exactly how you installed it. It's important that you select the correct processor architecture when choosing the driver (32 or 64 bit).

In the meantime you have the possibility to search this [nV News Forum]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14&order=desc") to see if you find anything there as well.

And always make sure you have a backup of the xorg.conf file since editing it by hand can make it corrupted..

---

### Post by ValTM on 2009-09-24
I am pretty sure i installed the driver correctly. Still, i have no other modes than 640x480 and 320x240 and can't set my refresh rate on more than 60Hz.

Edit: since i wrote on another forum for the same problem a guy gave me a tip to change the HorizSync       and VertRefresh to the defaults of my monitor (i've never heard of this before), but it worked.

1024x768_85 hell yes!!!
Problem solved :)

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-09-24
Since I'm an nVidia owner myself I will choose to attach my xorg.conf file so you can have a look at it.

---

### Post by LanceyD on 2009-11-03
> **ValTM said:**
> I am pretty sure i installed the driver correctly. Still, i have no other modes than 640x480 and 320x240 and can't set my refresh rate on more than 60Hz.

Edit: since i wrote on another forum for the same problem a guy gave me a tip to change the HorizSync       and VertRefresh to the defaults of my monitor (i've never heard of this before), but it worked.

1024x768_85 hell yes!!!
Problem solved :)

care to share the tip :( this 60hz is killing me

---

