---
title: "8.10 Intrepid sluggish on HP zv6000 series"
date: 2009-01-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kaosgrace on 2009-01-02
I just did a clean install of Ubuntu 8.10 (64-bit) on my husband's HP zv6131us laptop (AMD64, Radeon Express 200M). It was running Windows XP Pro previously and ran relatively quickly considering its age and the fact that he mostly uses it for P2P applications. I had to use UNetBootIn to do the installation because the LiveCD freezes (note to anyone having this problem: UNetBootIn works like a charm). I installed the proprietary wireless and graphics card drivers, Compiz Fusion, Emerald, and a few media apps.

It's not having any problems that I can identify except for being...slow. Very slow. There's a noticeable lagtime when opening menus, Firefox and Banshee take forever to load, and it occasionally freezes up temporarily when I try to do anything even slightly demanding. If I turn off desktop effects entirely, it's only a little slow, but still irritating.

I'm running the exact same version of Ubuntu on my dv9000 series laptop, which has much weaker hardware; when we were both running Windows, he could run relatively new games including Half-Life 2 at low settings, and I couldn't even run Neverwinter Nights well. But Ubuntu runs like a dream on mine, which leads me to think that there's something wrong with his.

Does anyone have any advice or experience with this laptop model?

---

### Post by kaosgrace on 2009-01-02
Fixed: I found a post from a few months ago about this graphics card. Apparently the xpress 200M has issues with the proprietary driver. Now running quite nicely on the open source driver, with Compiz enabled and everything.

---

