---
title: "HP Mini 210-1014"
date: 2010-04-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by AnotherMuggle on 2010-04-22
Anyone installed 9.10 or 10.04 on this netbook (HP Mini 210-1014) and got all hardware working properly?

I am basically desperate to install and get it working to the standard it is on my laptop but the Live USB version is not giving me the greatest confidence.

It seems WiFi might be a bit of a battle to get working.  And the touchpad has physical buttons "in/under" the touch region.  This is a problem because if I keep my finger on the physical button after releasing the click and try to scroll with another finger then the cursor jumps all over the place.

If anyone can offer me guidance (and confidence to destroy the default Windows 7 install) then I am keen to hear from you.

Cheers,
Tom

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2010-04-22
Installed 10.04 Beta 2 on the Compaq Mini, virtually the same machine and EVERYTHING just worked.....

---

### Post by AnotherMuggle on 2010-04-22
> **AlanR8 said:**
> Installed 10.04 Beta 2 on the Compaq Mini, virtually the same machine and EVERYTHING just worked.....

Brilliant news.  I am downloading the release candidate now to see if its any better than 9.10. If all looks good from the Live USB then I will download the final release in a few days time and install that.

---

### Post by AnotherMuggle on 2010-04-25
> **AlanR8 said:**
> Installed 10.04 Beta 2 on the Compaq Mini, virtually the same machine and EVERYTHING just worked.....

Do you have any touchpad issues?  Everything appears to work with 10.04 but the touchpad responds sketchily.  The problem is due to the hardware buttons being integrated into the touchpad.  When I click a hardware button the cursor pings to that location.  Very frustrating :(

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2010-04-25
No touch pad issues. That said, I'm a mouse user so the touch pad is something that's low on my list of priorities. Have just tested it and all seems to be working.

Enjoy your new machine and OS. I've just upgraded the RAM to 2 GIGS and it seems to make a difference.

---

### Post by KristinaK on 2010-07-25
what about battery?

---

