---
title: "9.04 HP1020 Printer Problem"
date: 2009-05-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by charly17201 on 2009-05-13
Okay, I need a little guidance.

I checked the 'bugs in ubuntu' on launchpad and found something kinda the same, but still different. I've never posted a bug report and consider myself still quite a novice with linux and ubuntu....

Here's the situation. On boot, my system hangs on start-up while it tries to identify the hardware on USB1 (my HP 1020 printer). It goes through many incarnations of what look almost like radio frequencies (16.270, 16.280, etc - not the right numbers, just an example) until it decides it doesn't know what the device is and then finishes the boot sequence.

I found if I turn the printer off during start up or I unplug the USB cable it starts with no problem. If I just sit there and let it go through everything when I want to print it doesn't recognize the HP1020.

The twist of course is that I have an HP3620 inkjet that it recognizes without any problems. I even switched the USB ports and get the same results.

If I have the HP1020 unplugged or turned off during boot - once I plug it in/turn it on the system recognizes it right away and I can print all I want. If I leave it plugged in (and on), I have to turn it off, wait a few seconds and then turn it on then it is recognized.

Also, I assume that it would help the people that do the debugging..... how would I capture all of the startup scripts that are displayed?

Thanks for the help

---

