---
title: "14.04 Install issues - is the Seagate ST1000DX001 Hybrid HDD?"
date: 2014-05-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by flameproof on 2014-05-21
My Ubuntu went bad (other topic) and today I got a new HDD -  1Tb Seagate ST1000DX001 Hybrid HDD.

Asus M2N68-AM Plus
AMD (some sort of Athlon or so)
2Gb RAM

The HDD is totally new, the old HDD isn't connected.

Ubuntu 14.04 64bit

I installed from DVD with only that HDD present. It seemed to have installed with no error. However, when I start the PC I have different issues, sometimes...:

[LIST]
[*]Ubtuntu logo for a second, then black screen forever
[*]Desktop, but no mouse 
[*]Desktop, mouse pointer, but pointer frozen
[*]Desktop, can move the mouse fine, once I click something the PC freezes
[/LIST]

Is there an error fix mode?

I *think* my CPU is the 64 type, will it be safer to install the 32-bit Ubuntu?

Any suggestion?

---

### Post by digitalpure on 2014-05-21
I got the same type drive for my laptop from seagate and had massive issues with the install.   What I wanted to do is use my mSATA for root, and the seagate for /home due to storage size.  The seagate would not create the home directory.  What i managed to do was boot into a live cd, use gparted and recreate the partition table on the device and then it would take the paramaters to be seen as /home during the install process.

---

### Post by flameproof on 2014-05-21
You got the same for your laptop? It's a 3.5" drive...

When I installed it opted for the 'all automatic' way. Do I need to re-install? Or can I change something now? I still have the DVD around. Anyway, system is still basically untouched, as it freezes once I click the mouse button.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-05-21
The problem could be due to a video driver. If we tick "Install Third Party software" when we install, then we get a proprietary video driver. The live session uses an open source video driver. So, if the live session runs fine but the first re-boot is broken, then I always suspect the proprietary video driver.

If you can right click the desktop you should get a menu that will offer Change Desktop Background. That will open System Settings and from there we can get to Software and Updates>Additional Drivers tab where we can experiment with video drivers.

The latest version of Ubuntu give us the latest proprietary video drivers but the owners of the driver code often drop support for their older graphic adapters. That could be a source of problems when installing the latest Ubuntu onto older hardware.

See the second post in this thread

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2225241](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2225241)

Regards.

---

### Post by flameproof on 2014-05-21
> **grahammechanical said:**
> The problem could be due to a video driver. If we tick "Install Third Party software" when we install

I am pretty sure I did go for the "Install Third Party software". 

What you suggest? The Desktop-right-click thing or a fresh install? So far I didn't setup anything. I don't to fix that and maybe have other issues later.

---

### Post by flameproof on 2014-05-21
Doh, Ubuntu doesn't let me boot from CD. I set the BIOS to CD first. Still not. I had to remove the HDD totally from the boot sequence. 

Then I installed again without "Install Third Party software". I did click 'LVM' though. Now I after a few restarts I only get a black screen (currently with a frozen mouse pointer in it).

Is LVM dysfunctional too? I usually don't use any partitions anyway. I prefer KISS :-))


Update: I managed to get into 'recovery mode'. However, some screens there require mouse input, the 'minimum grafix' screen doesn't work as it requires a 'OK' click from the mouse (difficult with not mouse pointer). So finally (after ALL other option, including a lengthily update) I opted for normal boot - which got me a slow low graphic desktop WITH mouse support!

Then I did a driver update which gave me a few options for GeForce drivers, and I chose 304.117 (because it said 'tested'). After another slow install and a new boot it seems it works. For the 19" screen I can only get 1280 x 1024 - which is still better then black screen I had before.

Thanks to grahammechanical for pointing me in the right direction!

---

