---
title: "Help with flickering lines on screen."
date: 2008-08-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bkj527 on 2008-08-31
Greetings!

I have just updated an old PC with a new mobo, ditched Windows, and installed Ubuntu 8.04.  I am having trouble with the display and I think it might be a software issue.  When Ubuntu boots, the LCD looks great, when I get to the login screen, it looks terrible because of short lines on the screen.  The lines are horizontal, but line up vertically in several places.  I am using a HANNspree HF199H monitor.  Once I am logged in, if I get the resolution down very low, the lines only appear when I move windows around, etc.  I have some inkling that this might be related to the xorg.conf file.  I am not sure what I should do with that file as the entry for the monitor says simply: 
Section "Monitor"
Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection
Any help would be great!

---

### Post by jolx on 2008-08-31
what graphics card are u using and which drivers

and also could you post your entire xorg.conf

---

### Post by bkj527 on 2008-08-31
I am using an onboard graphics card.  The newegg link to the board is here: 
[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16813135091](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16813135091)

The documentation refers to it as teh Sis761GX Northbridge and SiS965L Southbridge.

I haven't installed any drivers because the CD that came with the board was Windows only.  I guess that means I have no idea which driver I am using.

My xorg.conf file follows.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by jolx on 2008-08-31
ok

first you should install "xserver-xorg-video-sis"

then reboot and see if that works

---

### Post by bkj527 on 2008-08-31
Sorry to be dense, I am new to Ubuntu, can you walk me through what you mean by install xserver-xorg-video-sis.  It isn't in add/remove programs... I am sure this is simple but I can't seem to get it.
Ta!

---

### Post by bkj527 on 2008-08-31
I had a friend help me issue the command:

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-sis

That just told me I had the most up to date version...

---

### Post by jolx on 2008-08-31
have you updated your system? if not do so!

you can update by entering 'sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade'

if that dont work hit ctrl+alt+F1

login as root (username:root)

issue the command 'killall gdm'

then issue the command 'Xorg -configure'

then 'shutdown -r now'

---

### Post by bkj527 on 2008-08-31
I made sure that all of the software is uptodate.  I also followed your instructions and issued Xorg -configure.  I tried the new configuration before restarting and it didn't seem to work.  I then restarted using your suggested command.  Seemingly nothing has changed in appearance... it still looks bad at the login screen and with the resolution turned up to a reasonable level.  Is there something I can try next?

---

### Post by jolx on 2008-08-31
[this]("http://www.x.org/wiki/sis") would probably explain your problem
> 661/741/760 support has problems (chipsets were not on the market then) 
On 1400x1050 and 1600x1200 panels, some modes don't work
but idk


according to the specifications on newegg, your mobo has a pci-e x 16 slot on it. so i think the best thing to do would be to find a $50, nVidia graphics card and whack it in. like [this]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814122033") one maybe

---

### Post by bkj527 on 2008-08-31
Thanks for the insight.  I think I will just spring for the card.
Cheers!

---

