---
title: "14.04 vs vsync"
date: 2014-04-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dgonz64 on 2014-04-04
Hi there. I'm sorry if my first post ever looks like a ranting. It's not.

Today I installed 14.04/unity in two machines. The installer had correct vsync. When I first logged in both machines after installing, it did vsync like a champion (like live CD). Actually I have never seen a correct vsync/tearing in my laptop until today (nvidia 550M). It was an amazing moment... lots of rainbowns appeared everywhere. Too bad it looks like there's been today an update and vsync has gone in both computers.

If it's just a bug in a beta release, please stop reading here and don't hesitate to be mad at me (Ubuntu is doing a hell of a job). I know what is to be in the edge.

Did anyone else had this problem? Does anyone notice how horrible is tearing? Am I doing something wrong (most probably)?

I guess it doesn't matter the current hardware. One has an AMD/ATI 67x0M and the other an nVidia 550M. Both stopped syncing at the same time (after last update).

---

### Post by gifford on 2014-04-04
Yesterdays 14.04 updates borked a lot of things for many users. Today's latest seems to have corrected most of the issues. I'm not sure if the download disks have caught up.
Are you using the main server for downloading?

---

### Post by dgonz64 on 2014-04-04
I just did apt-get update > apt-get upgrade. So I guess yes. /etc/apt/sources.list point to servers at ubuntu.com. Not sure if you mean that.

---

### Post by dgonz64 on 2014-04-04
After last update, vsync is back. Now I'm heading to a corner to die in shame (unless I find a way to delete this thread, haha).

Thanks for your input, gifford.

---

### Post by gifford on 2014-04-04
Did the update-upgrade by command line solve your problem? In software sources you have a choice of where to download from..choose main. My other option since I am in the U.S. is "server for the United States".

---

### Post by dgonz64 on 2014-04-05
Yes, the update-upgrade solved the problem and I marked the thread as solved. I was using Spain mirrors (automatically selected). I will take into account the possibility to use main server if something else comes up. Thanks for the tip.

---

