---
title: "1"
date: 2008-07-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Preyor on 2008-07-14
Hello, I have four pc's with more than 1 ghz processing power in each, it occurred to me that I might be able to use them rather than throw them away by slaving them to my current desktop. Google is being quite guarded about information regarding this topic, It seems I would need some sort of network connector and a linux distro, I run ubuntu, What are the benefits of clustering in a home environment (if any) and how difficult would it be setting this up? I thank in advance those more learned than me for sharing information :)

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-07-14
It sounds like you want to build a cluster.  There is a lot of information on google about this if you google for "linux cluster".  However, you won't really see any performance benefit for day to day operations by doing this.

---

### Post by sayakb on 2008-07-14
Please try to put up proper titles for your posts. The titles should be descriptive of what the post is about.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2008-07-14
Hello,

it depends on what you want the cluster for. The processors you have are mediocre to cover nowadays needs, so I cannot imagine some heavy applications that it will be useful. A cluster most covers needs that can be splitted in different computers and be monitored by a central one. It can be used by one user or more and the tasks could be run in single processors or in paralel.

You need a switch and double ethernets in the server machine (the leading pc) in order for it to communicate with the outside world and the other computers. As far as the linux distro is concerned ubuntu offers a server's edition, yet it is not the only one.

I do not think that google is strict about clusters. There is a huge backround that covers this topic so I advice you to look better. The term cluster alone will give you many information in order to search further. The cluster capacity might be different from case to case, yet the idea is the same.

And just a notice : your thread title sais nothing about what you realy want. You should have been more specific.  

Regards!

---

