---
title: "Help with tablet pc?"
date: 2009-01-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ethanova on 2009-01-21
Hey all,

I recently installed Ubuntu 8.10 and it's my first exposure to Linux. I've been running Windows for the longest time and my friend helped me install Ubuntu and get it up and running. 

I'm running the HP Pavilion tx2525nr tablet pc.  At first the sound didn't work but we got it running and now I'm attempting to get the tablet itself to work.

I tried the steps [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5469447#post5469447") and I apparently messed up my xorg.conf file and it kept booting saying something along the lines of 'kinit: no good image found, booting...' something or other. I moved the file to a backup and booted back up regularly and everything is fine. Is there any way for me to get this working? 

Thanks so much!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-21
Hi ethanova,

Sure.  I have a HOW TO on linuxwacom (adapted from the gali98 tutorial you tried)  it also has links to Loic2's Wacom wiki, etc.  If Loic2's wiki's don't work for you you can try the HOW TO.  It also includes a working TX2500 xorg.conf.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6546012#post6546012]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6546012#post6546012")

I also have a HOW TO on screen rotation so that you can get into tablet mode.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=996830]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=996830")

Be sure to search the forums for the TX2500 threads.  There are several good ones.  Also the Tablet PC issues thread and the TX2000 threads.  Folks there are helpful.

---

### Post by ethanova on 2009-01-22
That worked! I'm psyched! =) I got it to work! Thank you so much for helping me Favux!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-22
Hi ethanova,

Great!  I'm happy for you.  Do you have any more questions?  If not I'd ask you to mark the thread as solved, but that function may be turned off like thanks.  Oh well.

---

### Post by ethanova on 2009-01-23
Actually I do. I Recently began installing themes and the such and I've got compiz-fusion and AWN installed and Running now. The scReen Rotate woRked theRe foR a while but now it stopped. I was using the 2nd method scRipt. Since then I've deleted the scRipts and tRied again but it didn't woRk. 

Also, my loweR case R is no longeR Responding. What in the woRld? =(

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-23
Hi ethanova,

It sounds like a problem with Compiz.  If you have the sample xorg.conf I posted installed it has the Xorg "radeon" driver installed. This is because the ATI proprietary driver "fglrx" with Catalyst 8.11 didn't support rotation.  I'm not sure if "radeon" supports, or completely supports Compiz.  I've asked several TX2500 owners and gotten inconsistent answers.  This may mean there is partial support?

Notice that "fglrx" is disabled (commented out):
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"radeon"
#	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection
```
Also "glx" is Compiz, and it's commented out:
```
#Section "Module"
#	Load	"glx"
#EndSection
```
You deactivate "fglrx" through System>Administration>Hardware Drivers (and activate it the same way).  Some folks said that deactivating it then crashed their X system.

Now Xorg is promising 3d (Compiz) support for "radeon".  And I just talked to a TX2z owner who "claimed" rotation for "fglrx".  I think he has the latest "fglrx" with Catalyst 8.12.  I think it's only available at the ATI website's linux driver download section, and not yet in the repositories.  But since I don't have a TX2500 I can't tell.

I hope this answers some of your questions.

---

### Post by ethanova on 2009-01-23
SoRRy but I'm not exactly suRe how to use that infoRmation. I thought I had downloaded the xoRg.conf fRom youR post but peRhaps not. HeRe is mine:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Pad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
	Option		"CircularScrolling"	"True"
	Option		"CircScrollTrigger"	"8"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier "stylus"
	Driver "wacom"
	Option "Type" "stylus"
	Option "USB" "on" 
	Option "Device" "/dev/input/by-path/pci-0000:00:0b.1-usb-0:2.3:1.0-event-mouse"
	Option "Button2" "3"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier "touch"
	Driver "wacom"
	Option "Type" "touch"
	Option        "USB"           "on" 
	Option "Device" "/dev/input/by-path/pci-0000:00:14.5-usb-0:2:1.1-event-"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "eraser"
	Driver         "wacom"
	Option         "Type" "eraser"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/input/by-path/pci-0000:00:0b.1-usb-0:2.3:1.0-event-mouse"
	Option        "USB"           "on" 
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option 		"RandRRotation" "On"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  	Screen		"Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Pad"
        Inputdevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "touch"		"SendCoreEvents"     
	Inputdevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```

Oh and the loweRcase R doesn't woRk when compiz hasn't been opened eitheR, if that helps.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-23
Hi ethanova,

Glad you posted your xorg.conf.  It looks like a TX2000 xorg.conf got mixed up in there some how.  A TX2500 has ATI video (not nvidia) and different USB paths.  What can be confusing is that HAL will run your stylus even if your computer isn't detecting any usb input.  But HAL won't give you the side-switch button, eraser, and touch.

Your touch section has the right usb input for a TX2500.  Did you download both xorg.conf's?  So I think you might want to compare your xorg.conf to the sample TX2500 one.  Maybe replace it.  Be careful and back up.

In the xorg.conf if you precede something by a "#", it comments it out, so it's not recognized.  If you remove the "#" then the next time X restarts or you reboot it is recognized by the X server.

If you're having problems, post what you have and I can edit it for you.  But the sample TX2500 should do it.

---

### Post by ethanova on 2009-01-23
I switched out the xorg files and everything works great :) Thanks!

Unfortunately I still cannot get the screen to rotate! Here is what I put in .rotate.sh :
```
#These lines are for use with 8.04 (Hardy Heron) and 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex):
#  For TX2000 uncomment next line (and comment out following one)-
#rotation="$(xrandr -q --verbose | sed -n '2 {p;q}' | cut -d' ' -f5)"
#  For TX2500 using Xorg's “radeon” driver uncomment next line (and comment out previous one)-
rotation="$(xrandr -q --verbose | sed -n '16 {p;q}' | cut -d' ' -f5)"

case "$rotation" in
    normal)
        xrandr -o right
        xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate CW
        xsetwacom set "touch" Rotate CW
        xsetwacom set "eraser" Rotate CW
        ;;
    right)
        xrandr -o inverted
        xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate HALF
        xsetwacom set "touch" Rotate HALF
        xsetwacom set "eraser" Rotate HALF
        ;;
    inverted)
        xrandr -o left
        xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate CCW
        xsetwacom set "touch" Rotate CCW
        xsetwacom set "eraser" Rotate CCW
        ;;
    left)
        xrandr -o normal
        xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate NONE
        xsetwacom set "touch" Rotate NONE
        xsetwacom set "eraser" Rotate NONE
        ;;
esac
```

I gave it permission to run as an executable and then created a launcher and specified the path for this script but when I tried to run it...nothing. :(

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-23
Boy ethanova am I glad you posted back!

I've been waiting with baited breath.  I didn't want to alarm you, but I wasn't sure how the xorg.conf you had wasn't crashing X!

Now for the rotation script.  Unfortunately there could be many reasons.  With the new xorg.conf you should have the "radeon" video driver, which supports rotation.  Compiz should be disabled.  You may want to try turning off the theme you implemented if it depended on Compiz.

I guess the most likely is that like me you're canalized on windows.  The linux method of file paths really isn't difficult, but it is different.  So when you're used to the Windows way, like me, it's easy to make little mistakes.  Make sure you know the exact path to the script you're using.  Places to Home Folder or Desktop or whatever should help you determine the path.  You'll have to play with it a little.  Also if the launcher is on the desktop and so is the script be sure the command in the launcher to the script has "~/" in front of it.  In linux this says "hey it's in the same directory".  And the slashes lean this way, /, not \ like Windows.  Also the file path name is "case specific", if the letter is Capitalized then you have to use a Capital letter, and vice versa.

---

### Post by ethanova on 2009-01-25
I tried again with the same code and when I made the launcher I clicked the open button and navigated to the .rotate.sh script and it still isn't running. I had Compiz running for AWN.  I restarted my computer and didn't run Compiz or AWN and the script still isn't working. With all the problems that this install has had, I am willing to negotiate with it and just turn my computer around if we can't solve this. haha

Since I just installed Ubuntu it's purpose was for me to just try it out and see how I liked it.  When I installed it I only alloted 20 GB to Ubuntu and now that I have tried it out and really like it, I'd like to repartition and give it some more space. I've searched the forums. I have Vista in front of Ubuntu.  

Is it wise to use Vista's own partition manager? Then use Gparted to grow Ubuntu after that? What's the best way to backup my files in case something goes horribly wrong? Or maybe should I just throw in the live Ubuntu CD and repartition from there? 

Thanks for all of your help! =)

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-25
Hi ethanova,

**Do not** use anything but Vista to resize the Vista partition!  Use the Vista disk tools only.  Last time I checked Gparted had problems with Vista or vice versa.  Maybe its OK with the newest version, but I'd check that out carefull.  After you've resized Vista with Vista then you can use Gparted.

I know the name of your rotation script, it is ".rotate.sh" and you've gone into Properties to make it executable.  Could you give me the exact "command" you are using to execute it in the launcher?  Also could you attach your xorg.conf?  You use Manage Attachments under Additional Options below.  Just copy your xorg.conf in a text file on your desktop (right click on desktop to make one) and name it something meaningful.

There is a big thread on HOW TO backup.  Um, in  "how to's and tutorials"?  Something like that.  Basically compress home into a tar and copy/move the tar to an external drive.  Also check out:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem")

---

### Post by ethanova on 2009-01-25
The command I'm using is "/home/ethan/Desktop/.rotate.sh" I tried the launcher as an application and the one involving Terminal and neither of them work. 

Also, when I just looked at reducing my vista partition I right clicked on My Computer and went to manage and all that jazz. When I clicked shrink it said that I would only be able to reduce it by like 799 MB which is considerably less than I had planned. I ran the Vista defrag program beforehand as well.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-25
Hi ethanova,

OK I'm stumped.  Sometimes gnome has some quirks (or maybe they could be called bugs?).  I'll keep thinking about it but in the meantime.  Could you attach the output of "xrandr -q --verbose"?  And attach your script?  Wait a minute, you commented out, placed a "#" in front of the TX2000 header and activated (removed the "#") in front of the TX2500 header "rotation="$(xrandr -q --verbose | sed -n '16 {p;q}' | cut -d' ' -f5)" correct?

Anyway I suggest trying the method 1 script or Tom Jaeger's wacomrotate daemon in method three.  If you wanted method 2 for the rotation direction the I could make a custom script for you.

Regarding Vista.  Yes a lot of folks have discovered that Vista won't shrink as much as it should  Apparently it has some large system files locked in certain places on the disk which prevent shrinkage.  There has to be some way to turn them off temporarily or relocate them.  At least I hope so since I'm in the same boat as you.  I've been meaning to look into it, but haven't got around to it yet.

---

### Post by ethanova on 2009-01-28
I uploaded my xrandr output. Yeah that's what I did, exactly as I posted it before. I've just been flipping my whole computer around to make it work in the mean time haha. 

I tried method 3 through I don't really understand the instructions to Method 1 or 3. What do I do with the xrandr output in 1? I'm pretty sure I did 3 right but it didn't work either. 

As far as the Vista partition goes, I'm not sure what to do. I talked to a Tech guy here on campus and he suggested removing Ubuntu and then running it in a virtualization layer with VMWare Server. Maybe I'll just keep Ubuntu with only 20 GB.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-28
Hi ethanova,

OK, color me confused.  Your xrandr output is nearly the same as my TX2000's.  The line number 2 of your output is the one we want, just like a TX200.  In the TX2500 it should be line 16.  So in method 2 use the TX2000 line and comment out the TX2500 line.  I don't understand what problem you're having with method 1.  It still is a rotation script and you treat it the same way.  Peril of having written the thing, I have a "blind" spot I guess.

Ignore Mr. Jaeger's, method 3 for now.

---

### Post by ethanova on 2009-01-28
I don't know what's up! I tried it using:

```
#Uncomment next line to use script on 6.06 (Dapper Drake) (and comment later one):
#rotation="$(xrandr -q | grep 'Current rotation' | cut -d' ' -f4)"

#These lines are for use with 8.04 (Hardy Heron) and 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex):
#  For TX2000 uncomment next line (and comment out following one)-
rotation="$(xrandr -q --verbose | sed -n '2 {p;q}' | cut -d' ' -f5)"
#  For TX2500 using Xorg's &#8220;radeon&#8221; driver uncomment next line (and comment out previous one)-
#rotation="$(xrandr -q --verbose | sed -n '16 {p;q}' | cut -d' ' -f5)"

case "$rotation" in
    normal)
        xrandr -o right
        xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate CW
        xsetwacom set "touch" Rotate CW
        xsetwacom set "eraser" Rotate CW
        ;;
    right)
        xrandr -o inverted
        xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate HALF
        xsetwacom set "touch" Rotate HALF
        xsetwacom set "eraser" Rotate HALF
        ;;
    inverted)
        xrandr -o left
        xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate CCW
        xsetwacom set "touch" Rotate CCW
        xsetwacom set "eraser" Rotate CCW
        ;;
    left)
        xrandr -o normal
        xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate NONE
        xsetwacom set "touch" Rotate NONE
        xsetwacom set "eraser" Rotate NONE
        ;;
esac
```

And it still doesn't work. Also I've been having kernel issues apparently too. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6628974#post6628974]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6628974#post6628974")

I ran memtest 1.7 times and installed some updates, didn't pay attention to what they were. Funny thing, tablet features don't work anymore. Wacomcpl is gone, touch and stylus don't work. I think I'm about to give up on ubuntu on as far as my tablet capacities go.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-28
Hi ethanova,

If you compiled the wacom kernel driver (wacom.ko) then a kernel update will break it.  It's specific for the kernel it was compiled on.  Both gali98's tutorial and my version mention this.  I know you were being overwhelmed with a bunch of stuff.  You could have blocked the kernel update, or you can compile the kernel up to and including where you copy wacom.ko to the other directory.  You shouldn't have to redo the xorg.conf wacomcpl and the .xinitrc.

I'm betting the update included a new kernel.  In a terminal type:
```
uname -r
```
I think the kernel was 2.6.27-9 and 2.6.27-11 has been in pre-release for quite a while.

As far as the screen rotation goes I'm pretty sure it is one of those things where you're sure you're following directions and understand them.  Then while rereading them for the umpteenth time you slap your head and say, "oh that's what that means, why did I think ..."?

I admit the xrandr output has me confused.  As ridiculous as it is I'll ask.  You are sure you have a TX2500 with ATI video chipset?

Edit:  It looks like it was a kernel header update.  At least it was for me, since I was already on 2.6.27-11.  And, naturally, the kernel header update broke wacom.ko.  But at this point I can recompile it in about 10 minutes, so it's no big deal.

---

