---
title: "3.5&quot; Floppy Drive does not work in Lucid"
date: 2010-07-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Michl on 2010-07-25
Just upgraded from Hardy LTS to Lucid LTS and having
some problems.  One is that Lucid doesn't mount and
read the floppy disks.  This was not a problem in
Hardy, and I dual boot and it isn't a problem in
Windows.  Unfortunately, it is important that I be
able to read 3.5" floppies.

---

### Post by Goolie on 2010-07-25
I haven't used a 3.5" in forever, unfortunately I don't know how I posted here. . . 

I meant to post in a completely seperate unrelated forum. . .

sorry. =\

Have you tried mounting the device manually?

---

### Post by Michl on 2010-07-25
Mounting manually does not work.  But here's
the solution from bayouoldguy:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9527243#post9527243](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9527243#post9527243)

Just to make life easier for those with the same problem:
> go to synaptic, open it, & type in "udisks". The result will show you probably "udisks(1.0.1-1ubuntu1)". Select properties & go to versions header, select the "1build1" package & go back to package header & select "force version" option....proceed as usual & it will install. Go to places & click on the floppy & it should mount!
I don't know if the floppy will have to be re-mounted each use or not, but it will be a "work-around", hope it won't be lost with upgrades...but may have to be vigilant.....Thanks guys......"G"

I also commented out the floppy line in /etc/fstab.

I have floppies back to 1987 and a couple of times a year
I need a file from way back when.

---

### Post by Goolie on 2010-07-25
Glad you found the answer, sorry I wasn't too much of a help, but if you need those files here and there why don't you consolidate them into a CD / DVD?

Even if it's a HUGE process: a floppy a day could keep the. . .floppy drive at bay. . .

---

### Post by Michl on 2010-07-27
I'm used to the physical filing system that
comes with the floppies...and I'm an old
dog.

---

### Post by and003 on 2010-08-21
> **Michl said:**
> I'm used to the physical filing system that comes with the floppies ... and I'm an old dog.

Then this URL may interest you:
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/util-linux/+question/120571](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/util-linux/+question/120571)

---

