---
title: "14.04 Intel Mobile 4 Series Chipset integrated video: Can't change refresh rate"
date: 2014-05-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by sowdust on 2014-05-03
Hi everyone,

I have just freshly installed xubuntu 14.04 on my laptop with integrated Intel graphics.
After loggin in the screen is very "flashy", meaning that the image is not steady.
I thought this could be because the refresh rate is as low as 59.1.
The settings manager does not give me any other option for current resolution (1280x800) nor was I able to change it adding a new mode with xrandr.

Is the refresh ratio the problem? If so, How can I change it?
Otherwise is there something else I could try?

thanks!

---

### Post by sowdust on 2014-05-10
small bump? This problem is very annoying, it hurts my eyes and even though is less visible if I reduce screen brightness it still does tire my eyes a lot...
any help would be very appreciated! Thanks

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-05-11
Which graphics card? Please post the output from ```
lspci | grep -i VGA
```.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2014-05-28
sorry, I did not receive the notification. The output is 
```

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)

```

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-05-28
Most of my computers have a refresh rate of around 60 with a fine picture running Nvidia or AMD graphics.

Sorry, I can only point you to googling, which yields a lot of posts for this graphics chip. Unfortunately not much is useful.

Do you get the same for Xubuntu 12.04.4?

---

### Post by sowdust on 2014-05-29
would you define your avatar "a fine picture" ? ;)

no, I did not have this issue with previous versions of Xubuntu; it happened only after a fresh install of the latest version

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-05-29
Then it would be great if you could repost the bug in Launchpad or confirm the report if there is one already.

Larry feels comfortable in coarse pixels.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2014-06-03
thank you for the suggestion. I have opened a bug report [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1326033")

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-03
Thanks, but it's better to mention the graphics card in the title.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2014-06-03
ok I'm sorry, I thought that would be too much! I have posted a [new bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1326048") and marked the old one as a duplicate of this new one. Hopefully this is a good practice!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-06-03
You could also just have edited the title, but nevermind. What matters is that we have a bug report.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2014-11-18
Hi, I just wanted to say that the bug has been resolved with Xubuntu version 14.10. Great!!!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-11-18
Good to hear. 
Please mark the bug report 'Fix released' and this thread 'solved'.

---

