---
title: "22.04 Hardware Requirements"
date: 2021-03-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by gerad82 on 2021-03-17
I wish to know what are the system hardware requirements(minimum and  recommended) for the upcoming LTS version of Ubuntu 22.04. I'm a newbie  to linux and my guess is someone must be working on a cutting edge  desktop to develop code for all the features the new hardware  configuration presents. Any reply from engineers behind the said version  would be greatly appreciated. I'm using an i3 processor with 8 GB RAM  and 500 GB HDD. I just wish not to upgrade my hardware for another 15  years or so.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-03-17
Nobody can predict what will be needed a year from now, much less for the next 15 yrs.   

In the last 15 yrs, 32-bit cpus have become deprecated for 64-bit ones. RAM has gone from 1GB to 16G as the starting level. Similar advances are likely over the next 15 yrs.

 The GPU capabilities have also increased, but the GPU or even the bus used will probably all change in the next 15 yrs.  PCI and IDE were common 15 yrs ago.

Get a high-end Ryzen 9 CPU and 256G of RAM if you want the best chance of having a system that lasts 15 yrs.  OTOH, blowing the budget for that system today doesn't seem like a great idea.

Around Dec 2021, the best supported HW for 22.04 will become clearer.  Bleeding edge hardware today should be ok by then.  New HW this June maybe too new for good support. It takes time for vendors to get their drivers out and for people to uncover bugs that have to be fixed by the vendor.  Some newer Intel 2.5Gbps NIC drivers haven't stabilized and they've been out over a year now. 

Of course, an i3 w/8G hasn't been near the bottom ever. Should be fine for 22.04.  Some GPUs lose support every release for proprietary drivers. The F/LOSS drivers should work, just with some limitations. An nvidia GPU that I had lost Linux support when the kernel moved from the 3.xx series to the 4.xx series.  The GPU wouldn't run at the same resolution it had been running at for about 10 yrs.  OTOH, sometimes that GPU stops working post-boot.  It is on a server, so I don't notice. Almost all access is over ssh, not on the local console. It is only at boot time when the GPU issues cause problems. If the GPU cannot be discovered, Ubuntu Server isn't happy.

Nobody here works for canoncal, BTW.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2021-03-18
Moved to Hardware .

A better place for the question might be the community hub. [https://discourse.ubuntu.com/](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-03-18
The requirements for the OS are completely dwarfed by the requirements of the software and tasks you're running on it.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2021-03-19
22.04 isn't even a twinkle in the devs' eyes yet. Furthermore, requirements are more dependent on what desktop and programs you're running. If you intend to run GNOME, maybe look at GNOME 40's requirements to get an idea.

---

