---
title: "S.M.A.R.T. Hard Disk Drive Analysis"
date: 2009-06-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by conradin on 2009-06-04
Hi all, I'm somewhat of a beginner, I can use the Console pretty well though, My question is about the Self-Monitoring, Analysis, and Reporting Technology, or S.M.A.R.T. (sometimes written SMART),monitoring system for computer hard disks to predict future failures. 

Question 1: Does Ubuntu have such a program some place? ( hardy, or intrepid)

Question 2: I have a ton of old hard drives from this doctor, many have various Operating Systems (Red hat, Fedora, Windows, etc..) that may or may not boot.  is there software that can accommodate a variety of file table types?  

Currently, I am using such programs in Windows, but it Stinks Cuz I can not mount linux partitions, or recover any data without unplugging the Disks and placing them in a different Linux box. This failure, and Microsoft products in general, make me skeptical that the results are accurate. 

Question 3: Does anyone know how to run SMART scans from the BIOS?

Much Thanks in advanced!!!

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2009-06-04
i don't us it, but this may be what your looking for...

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Smartmontools](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Smartmontools)

---

### Post by bol0 on 2009-06-04
You can't scan HDDs from BIOS unless your BIOS has that option (I've seen it once in DELL laptop). I guess you want to use some diagnostic software bootable from the floppy/CD like SeaTools or Lifeguard?

---

### Post by elliotbeken on 2010-01-26
> You can't scan HDDs from BIOS unless your BIOS has that option (I've seen it once in DELL laptop). I guess you want to use some diagnostic software bootable from the floppy/CD like SeaTools or Lifeguard?

Yes i have seen this in most of the higher end modern laptops especially HP, compaq, dell and toshiba

---

