---
title: "Can't use TV as second monitor from laptop"
date: 2008-06-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by hypnos0630 on 2008-06-06
I've been tearing my hair out for days on this one.
I'm running a Gateway M-6755 Notebook VGA out to S-video in (I've tried RGB in on two tv's with the same results) to a television set and I've tried every refresh rate and resolution available to me, the picture is there but it is severely scrambled and the vertical/horizontal holds don't 'hold'.
Same result on two different tv's with two different cords.

My driver is an Intel mobile 965 express chipset, updated the video card today with Intel Graphics Media Accelerator X3100.

It doesn't give me a tv out option, only notebook and monitor. I think the problem lies there. I found some similar problems with the xconfig and tried posting their solutions on mine but it scrambled the laptop monitor screen so badly I had a hard time recovering it.

here is my current xorg.conf;

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)

#

# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using

# values from the debconf database.

#

# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.

# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)

#

# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*

# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg

# package.

#

# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated

# again, run the following command:

# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg



Section "InputDevice"

Identifier "Generic Keyboard"

Driver "kbd"

Option "XkbRules" "xorg"

Option "XkbModel" "pc105"

Option "XkbLayout" "us"

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

Identifier "Configured Mouse"

Driver "mouse"

Option "CorePointer"

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"

Driver "synaptics"

Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"

Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"

Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"

Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"

EndSection



Section "Device"

Identifier "Configured Video Device"

EndSection



Section "Monitor"

Identifier "Configured Monitor"

EndSection



Section "Screen"

Identifier "Default Screen"

Monitor "Configured Monitor"

Device "Configured Video Device"

EndSection



Section "ServerLayout"

Identifier "Default Layout"

Screen "Default Screen"

InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"

EndSection




I'm using ubuntu as installed through wubi, if that helps. And my main desire is a fix similar to THIS; ([http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-679457.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-679457.html))

I need to change my driver/video card so that it has an Option "monitor-TV" "TVOutput" since it doesn't by default. I would greatly appreciate any help!

thanks!

---

### Post by porkchopexpressions on 2009-05-08
I'm running the same Gateway you are, and I habitually use an SGI 20" as a scondary monitor.  I was having the same issues with it that you're having with your tv in the beginning, and I finally just used apt-search and found "resapplet" and "grandr" which are the only two display configuration apps that had any lasting, logical effect on my configuration.  Second only to wireless support (I have NONE, it's terrible), Hardware detection and Display controls should really be a big focus of future 'Buntus.

---

### Post by DJYoshaBYD on 2009-05-08
hardware detection is perfect, for the most part.. the only thing you ever seem to need drivers for is wireless and video.. 90% of the stuff I have used and installed has been PnP..

BUT the intel driver, from what I understand, doesnt have any linux version except the open source one.. It may be your adaptor, as well.. i have had that problem with my laptop, and i switched cables, and it worked fine.. 

but yeah... it has to be the intel driver.. this may help

[http://intellinuxgraphics.org/user.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/user.html)

as you can see, there is no proprietary stuff for intel and linux... just xorg.conf.. lol

hopefully someone with some more experience with the intel onboard graphics can chime in?

---

