---
title: "9.04 - C5 Envelopes printing 5 inch off centre"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by GrantsV on 2009-04-24
Since installing Ubuntu 9.04 printing C5 envelopes/pages from OpenOffice results in print being off centre by 5 inches.  A huge gap between the right hand edge and start of the printout and subsequently the left hand edge goes off the page.  I've tried every single driver option and every setting imaginable in OpenOffice.  This problem does not occur on 8.10 or other distros.  I doubt its a driver issue, so its either CUPS or Openoffice 3.

Anyone else with same issue?

---

### Post by jsmumma on 2009-04-27
I have encountered the same problem, although specific dimensions may differ from yours.

One particularly irritating "feature" of envelope printing with the previous version of Ubuntu/OpenOffice was the appearance of a fine line at the bottom of the envelope that appeared to be the exclusive OR of all pixels vertically above it on the envelope. I have only ever seen one person mention this online, so I started a thread in an OpenOffice forum. The conclusion there was that it was a driver problem, since (1) I could export to PDF from OpenOffice Writer and the line did not appear and (2) other folks coud print my test file without getting the line. I was somewhat eager to see if this "feature" would disappear in 9.04 as easily as it has appeared in 8.04 or 8.10 (I forget which). I am happy to report that it has disappeared now that I have upgraded to 9.04.

That's the good news. After upgrading to 9.04 over the weekend, I tried printing an envelope to an 8.5"x11" letter size sheet of paper. I was relieved to see no extraneous line at the bottom, but noticed that left side of my return address was cut off. I printed onto an actual B10 (4.125"x9.5") business size envelope this morning and discovered that the label was shifted at least 3 inches (but less than 4 inches) to the left. This time the return address was completely off the envelope.

As of this moment, I do not have a solution for this. I will do some online searching and report back here as soon as I find anything that may help.

I really hate it when something that works gets broken.

UPDATE: I exported the envelope directly to PDF and the PDF looks fine. Therefore, the problem must be in the printer driver (again) rather than with OpenOffice itself. Unfortunately, I have not been able to figure out how to print onto an envelope from the PDF. Document Viewer 2.26.0 always prints on the side of the sheet opposite from where my envelope feeder is.

---

### Post by jsmumma on 2009-04-28
I believe I have solved my problem by executing hp-setup as root. This created a new printer entry in System > Administration > Printing. I printed a test envelope from OpenOffice Writer 3.0 to this printer. I was able to print onto a sheet of 8.5"x11" letter size paper and onto an actual #10 (4.125"x9.5") envelope in the envelope slot of my HP Officejet 6110 All-In-One. In both cases, the main and return address labels were printed correctly.

I discovered by executing "man hp-setup" that hp-setup was installed on my system already. Information about hp-setup (and hp-plugin) is available from the HP website:

[INDENT][http://hplipopensource.com/node/309]("http://hplipopensource.com/node/309")[/INDENT]

I deleted the previous printer entry and made the new one my default.

---

### Post by GrantsV on 2009-05-04
hp-setup solved the problem, thanks so much!!  I can now enjoy 9.04 with all its speed improvements.

---

