---
title: "13.04 Canon Pixma MG3600"
date: 2013-08-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Meocene on 2013-08-07
Hello,

I new and looking for some help.

I have a Canon MG3600 for which I've downloaded the drivers available from the Canon software page (both print and scan drivers).
they came in a tar.gz file which I extracted.
First i simple dug around in the folders until I found the *.deb files and installed them using the software centre.
After doing this the Add Printer dialog box correctly identified the printer, but during the installation process it doesn't find any drivers, and if i search through the list my printer's not listed.

This made me think maybe installing the *.deb's wasn't enough, so I used terminal to install the packages by running the install.sh scripts.

Same thing, printers recognized but when the searching for drivers box appears it finds nothing.

I'm sure in retrospect whatever I'm not doing will seam obvious, but i'm stumped.

I have tried adding that Michael-Grux repo, but 13.04 doesn't seam to like it very much, and i'm fairly certain the MG3600 isn't even in there.

I also seam to get a lot of errors during the install.sh process.
for example:

"dpkg: error processing cnifilter-mg3600series (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured"

---

### Post by EBWQNHD on 2013-08-08
When I google on > **[COLOR=#0000ff]Canon MG 3600[/COLOR]**  .........google only finds me references to the Canon Pixma IP 3600 ...............could that be your printer?

If you copy and paste this into a terminal

> [COLOR=#ff0000]dpkg -l | grep cnijfilter[/COLOR]

it will describe what printer drivers may have been installed;

.........eg for my **[COLOR=#ee82ee]MG3100[/COLOR]** printer, it says 

> [COLOR=#ee82ee]ii  cnijfilter-common        3.60-1 IJ Printer Driver for Linux.
             ii  cnijfilter-mg3100series 3.60-1 IJ Printer Driver for Linux.[/COLOR] 

_______________________________________________________________________________________-

If you have a **Pixma IP 3600** printer, I see from this website

[http://support-asia.canon-asia.com/contents/ASIA/EN/0100159202.html](http://support-asia.canon-asia.com/contents/ASIA/EN/0100159202.html)

that the method of install is a common driver first; and then a specific driver; which is [COLOR=#008000]cnijfilter-ip3600series_3.00-1_i386.deb[/COLOR]

........so that is specific for a 32bit operating system; (looks like the ip 3600 came out in 2009); 

so do you have a 32bit ubuntu install please?

---

