---
title: "10.10 ASUS 1215N no sound from speakers"
date: 2010-11-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by TheLuckys on 2010-11-29
Hi all,

I've been running Ubuntu 10.10 on my 1215N for some time now. Everything worked fine until this morning when I couldn't play any sound.
After a bit of research and searching google, I found that it's just the internal speakers that aren't working. If I plug in my headphones, I do hear music.
I tried everything in the SoundTroubleshooting help page.

The only solution to this problem I could find (specific for the 1215N) was to reinstall Ubuntu.
Is there any other solution?

---

### Post by mikesimmonds on 2010-12-01
Joined forum for this post; I had same problem with my 1215n. Tried absolutely everything - was about to reinstall and remembered that last time I had watched a video in rhythmbox, I closed the lid without stopping the video...

So, I closed the lid, let the pc suspend, then opened it up again back into 10.10 and WHAM my audio is working again.

Perhaps the 1215n has trouble with suspend under ubuntu?

EDIT: I'm a noob - it would have been movie player, not rhythmbox...

---

### Post by natecarp on 2010-12-01
@mikesimmons: thanks for your account.  I just experienced the same fix with my ASUS 1015PE in which all I had to do was put the computer back into suspend.

---

### Post by TheLuckys on 2010-12-03
My god! You're awesome! Thanks!
I rebooted like 10 times, and it didn't do anything.
But when I closed the lid, and opened it back up, it suddenly worked!

---

### Post by lerwys on 2010-12-12
Hi all,

I know that the problem has already been fixed, but I was experiencing the same problem and it got fixed just by suspending ubuntu. 

Thanks

---

### Post by LtPitt on 2011-01-16
God bless you: problem solved.

---

### Post by LtPitt on 2011-02-02
Not definitely :(

Random my laptop crashes (it's always sound-related... Often after entering password I get a squirky sound never stopping and mouse freezes, alt + f1 produces nothing)...
What can I do?

---

### Post by rawsilk on 2011-05-15
Oh how I do thank thee! Headache gone with a simple flick of the wrist... literally.

ps Just joined the forum and running Ubuntu 11.04 on my asus 1215n. First time with single OS being linix.

---

### Post by fermin on 2011-07-08
Well I magically experienced the same fix: pressed suspend, turn on again and now internal speakers work! Before I could only hear sound from the headphones jack, as others said. My laptop is an eeePC 1215P and I'm running a fresh install of Ubuntu 11.04. I hope not to have any further problems or crashes as the above user said :S But if I do I'll be sure to let you know. Thanks!

---

### Post by ehdis on 2011-07-19
i'm experiencing the very same problem but i have Asus Eee PC 1005 HA and the suspend doesn't work properly... my computer is totally mute
i tried to change it with Fn buttons but the speaker icon on the panel stays grey (and shows mute), i tried to change sound preferences, nothings seems to work...

has anyone had such problem? i searched ubuntu forum for it but found nothing...

---

### Post by aaberr on 2011-10-11
Any update regarding this issue? I'm having a similar problem with 1215p, any workaround better than the sleep solution?

---

### Post by metaloprof on 2012-01-26
Very new to Ubuntu/Linux so apologies for adding to this post. I too have this problem with an old Toshiba Satellite P100, None of the scripts relating to sound card etc not working helped but came across this thread and hey presto closing the lid and hibernate on power management restored the audio!

Many thanks guys, I think I will enjoy being a Linux user!!

---

