---
title: "32 Or 64 Bit?"
date: 2010-04-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ..::| Dave89 |::.. on 2010-04-10
I have two PC's (laptop and desktop), which are both 64 bit compatible, but currently running 32 bit Karmic.  I was thinking of switching over to 64 bit when I upgrade to Lucid at the end of this month,  I mainly use the computers for internet browsing, email, basic image editing and watching DVD's, would 64 bit have any advantages for these types of activities?  Or should I stick with 32 bit?

the CPU for the desktop is a 3 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo E8400 ([http://processorfinder.intel.com/details.aspx?sSpec=SLAPL](http://processorfinder.intel.com/details.aspx?sSpec=SLAPL))

The CPU for the laptop is a 2 GHz Intel Celeron 550 ([http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=31727](http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=31727)).

The desktop also runs Windows Vista which is 32 bit, but I shouldn't think that having one 32 bit OS and one 64 bit OS on one machine would cause any problem?

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-10
if you have more than 2Gb of RAM then you should use 64bit ubuntu, if you have less than 2Gb stay with 32 bit.  

The reason for this is that 64bit editions supports more than 2gb of ram whereas the 32bit is limited only for a certain size of ram (not sure if its 2gb or 4gb)

---

### Post by sxmaxchine on 2010-04-10
if you have more then 2gb ram then you can use 64bit but if you have less then 4gb then there not realy any point in using 64bit.

---

### Post by sau99ms on 2010-04-10
> **sxmaxchine said:**
> if you have more then 2gb ram then you can use 64bit but if you have less then 4gb then there not realy any point in using 64bit.

Hi,

I've just recently switched to 64bit karmic from 32bit (after trying kubuntu which didn't work completely as I'd have liked) and I'm enjoying 64bit ubuntu. I switched to 64bit as I have 4gb of RAM and am thinking of going to 8gb of ram as I do quite a lot of memory intensive work. I'd recommend the switch over to 64bit for you too as 32bit supports up to and including 3gb of RAM so at the moment you presently have 1gb sitting there doing absolutely nothing. 64bit supports much higher RAM - I think up to 32gb if memory serves. Maybe even higher...anyway I digress...

From my experience with 32 vs 64 bit karmic I'd say they're very similar in booting/shut down time - still very quick. You won't notice any difference in normal operation except for when installing some apps where only 32bit apps are available, e.g amazon mp3 downloader will only work on 32bit installs and you'll get an error message about the wrong architecture. A bit annoying but not too bad. Apart from that go for it - but be sure to back up all your docs/music/vids as you'll need to do a clean install as I'm sure you're aware. Might also be worth saving your markings in synaptic just in case....

All the best,

Mark

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-04-10
> **aljoriz said:**
> if you have more than 2Gb of RAM then you should use 64bit ubuntu, if you have less than 2Gb stay with 32 bit. 

The reason for this is that 64bit editions supports more than 2gb of ram whereas the 32bit is limited only for a certain size of ram (not sure if its 2gb or 4gb)

32bit limit (without PAE kernel) is 3.something GB. What the 'something' can depend on a few factors.  

> **sxmaxchine said:**
> if you have more then 2gb ram then you can use 64bit but if you have less then 4gb then there not realy any point in using 64bit.

You can use 64bit on less than 2GB of RAM. There is no reason why you cant. 

Even @ 2GB, systems benchmark better on 64bit over 32bit. Examples? See this test (and that is using 9.04, I would bet that 64bit has even more of an edge on 32bit with later kernels etc)- 

[http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks](http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks)

After that, it should be pretty obvious I'm all for using 64bit if your CPU supports it.  ;)

---

### Post by cdufour on 2010-04-10
32-bit supports up to 4GB (though 1GB is reserved to the kernel and only 3GB available in user space)

64-bit supports up to 4GB. Have been running Jaunty and now Lucid (beta) in 64-bit on a 8GB machine: no "cons" what-so-ever (anylonger)! The applications that used (a few years ago) to be "blocking" the 64-bit option (like flash, Open Office, firefox, etc.) just run flawlessly now. Even Skype and X-Plane - both 32-bit only applications - run without a glitch, thanks to the 32-bit compatibility layer (see the ia32-libs package).

So if you plan to beef-up a machine with more than 4GB of RAM, 64-bit is the way to go! 

More than 3GB of (usable) RAM provide some improved pormances as soon as disk intensive applications are used (like the X-Plane simulator accessing the photo-realistic scenery files). Imagine all the RAM that can be dedicated to disk cache!

cdufour@ced-workstation:~ > free 
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       8194532    6801796    1392736          0     495784    5400084
-/+ buffers/cache:     905928    7288604
Swap:     27831544          0   27831544

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-04-10
The question these days is not "Should I run 64 bit ?" (assuming that the hardware is capable) but rather "Why shouldn't I run 64 bit ?" as there are very few reasons not to.

Most applications are now available in 64 bit, and the ones that aren't can be made to run on 64 bit.

IME, the chances of you having a problem with 64 bit are very low, but the only way to find out is to use it, and if you do come across a show stopper, then yes, you have lost some time and a clean install with 32 is required, but at least you know the answer to your question for sure ;-)

---

### Post by chappajar on 2010-04-10
> **howefield said:**
> The question these days is not ''Should I run 64 bit '' (assuming that the hardware is capable) but rather ''Why shouldn't I run 64 bit '' as there are very few reasons not to.


This sums it up nicely.
You are wasting your hardware by using a 32 bit OS.  Hobbling it to enure it can't reach it's full potential.

64 bit is beneficial when decoding video, so you may (in theory) notice a difference watching DVDs, but if your DVDs are already silky smooth and responsive with 32 bit you won't see any change.

---

### Post by ..::| Dave89 |::.. on 2010-04-10
I do have 4 GB of RAM in the desktop and 2 or 3 GB in the laptop,  I think I'll go with 64 bit Ubuntu, and maybe also buy 64 bit Windows 7 and up the RAM to 6-8 GB for my games.

Thanks for all your quick replies, I've also been doing a bit of research using Google.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-04-10
Most Windows games and programs are only 32-bit optimized. The built in Microsoft programs should utilize 64-bits though.

---

### Post by Tikkyca on 2010-04-10
Well the 64-bit version can handle more of random access memory (RAM)more faster and better than 32-bit can,but it depends on your processor.

---

### Post by mcooke1 on 2010-04-10
I use 64 bit Ubuntu and there are no disadvantages at all but using 64 bit Windows 7 no flash in 64 bit IE8, Firefox doesn't install but Chrome Browser works 64 bit. Good thing I hardly ever use it.

---

### Post by Grakul on 2010-04-10
Just like to point out that if you're running Ubuntu *on top of* Windows (i.e. in a VM), then you won't be able to run 64-bit Ubuntu on top of 32-bit Windows. If you're dual booting, I don't see a problem running 32- and 64-bit on a single computer. :)

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-04-10
> **Grakul said:**
> Just like to point out that if you're running Ubuntu *on top of* Windows (i.e. in a VM), then you won't be able to run 64-bit Ubuntu on top of 32-bit Windows.

Of course you can.

If the hardware supports it. If you are using Virtualbox, 2.1 and onwards have that ability.

---

### Post by Grakul on 2010-04-10
Oh, OK, then. Sorry.

I've just never seen a 64-bit VM running on top of a 32-bit host before. My bad. :P

---

### Post by ..::| Dave89 |::.. on 2010-04-10
I'm dual booting between Windows and Ubuntu.

I think I'll stick with 32-bit Vista for the time being.  I don't use use Windows for anything other than playing games anyway.

I went to the Ubuntu site to check out the alternate install ISO's, haven't downloaded any, since I'm waiting for the final Lucid release before upgrading, the 64-bit ISO is named ubuntu-9.10-desktop-amd64.iso. Why isn't there an Intel version, or does the one ISO work on both AMD and Intel?  I'm thinking that the latter is most likely the case, but I'd thought I'd ask to confirm.

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-04-10
> **..::| Dave89 |::.. said:**
> the 64-bit ISO is named ubuntu-9.10-desktop-amd64.iso. Why isn't there an Intel version, or does the one ISO work on both AMD and Intel?

Don't worry about the name, it'll work fine on both AMD and Intel hardware.

---

