---
title: "IBM T30 ATI driver"
date: 2010-04-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by crakkajakka15 on 2010-04-11
Hey guys recently coming back to ubuntu after a long break. I installed 9.10 on my IBM T30. For some reason when I open my system monitor and when I get a new IM in pidgin the screens that are soposed to be displayed arnt, they are black and almost have a static look to them. Could this be because of a bad video driver. If so how can I find out if i have the correct driver. 


Screenshot of system monitor and the issue described above

[IMG]http://i54.photobucket.com/albums/g90/crakkajakka15/Screenshot.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-04-12
According to Google, your machine uses a Radeon 7500 chipset -- for which ATI dropped Linux driver support over a year ago.  Ubuntu automatically installed the default open source driver when you installed it -- and that's all that is available now for your machine.

---

### Post by crakkajakka15 on 2010-04-13
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> According to Google, your machine uses a Radeon 7500 chipset -- for which ATI dropped Linux driver support over a year ago.  Ubuntu automatically installed the default open source driver when you installed it -- and that's all that is available now for your machine.

Hmmm...yea i did read that bit of information somewhere, but I have had other versions of Ubuntu on this system previously and this has never happened before.  


Is there something else that could be causing this issue to occur?

---

### Post by The Mad Scientist on 2010-04-16
I had the same problem with 9.10.  The 10.04 beta 1 seems to have solved the issue.  Now if only I could get WPA wireless working like it did with 9.04...

---

### Post by rofthorax on 2010-04-23
Yea another reason for me never to get ATI graphics cards.. I'm so proud I dropped their sorry butts.. I don't think I will get AMD processors either.. 

You turn your back on your consumers, there goes your image..

BTW, I have a NVidia 9800Gt and a 9600.. I love them to death.. And the cards I had previous include ATI FireGL, even one that came with a copy of Softimage, the special 500 dollar deal a ways back. Softimage sucks and so does ATI..  Neither of those snooty twits are getting my money again. 

Oh well.. 

BTW, I have a Thinkpad T30 with a meg of ram and 2.0 Ghz Pentium 4M.. 


Oh by the way.. Here is a temporary fix.. I guess.. 
It worked for me.. 

----------
Got this from this page: 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/474134](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/474134)
----------

alexlet  wrote on 2010-03-20:  	  #19

Can be solved by editing xorg.conf file. Please add accelmethod exa in device section.
Like this:
Section "Device"
        Option "AccelMethod" "EXA"
EndSection

Looks like it is same issue here [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/416001](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/416001)

------------
Here is my complete xorg.conf .. I didnt have one in Xubuntu 9.10, so I borrowed someone elses and copied it to /etc/X11/xorg.conf

------------
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "vmmouse"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
    Option "AccelMethod" "EXA"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by tandm on 2010-05-26
HELP, I am a Ubuntu (and UNIX) newbie, I have just loaded 9.04 on my T30 to have a play and see how it all works and the Touchpad in inoperative. I have checked the Lenovo site and there are no "non-microsoft" drivers, other than OS/2, of course.
 
Can someone kindly tell me what I need to do please?
 
Many thanks in advance, tandm

---

### Post by Astinsan on 2010-06-22
Installing ubuntu 10.04 lts works. I installed the newest mint (which is based on ubuntu 10.04) then used the software installer to install thinkpad modules (drivers).  My touchpad works as it is suposed to but there are plenty of help docs over at thinkwiki.org for the t30. Remember that a lot of the info can also come from other models like th t40 series.

---

