---
title: "10.04 on a Samsung N310?"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by wesg on 2010-05-05
I'm using a Samsung N310 right now after installing 10.04 UNR. It works quite well, and I like the OS organization, but wireless is not working. The light is on, but no networks appear on the menu. 

Has anyone else gotten 10.04 working well on a Samsung N310? I want to try this thing out more, but it far too inconvenient to not have wireless.

Alternatively, what device/drivers does the wireless in the N310 use?

---

### Post by JTCanGo on 2010-05-06
Hi

This is how I got my Samsung n310 wireless to work.

1) Find out the name of your net controller card.  Go to the terminal and type

lspci

I got the following.

roy@roy-laptop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.2 IDE interfac e: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family SMBus Controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Device 8192 (rev 01)
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8040 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller (rev 13)

2) Get the Samsung driver

If you scroll down you'll see a label for 'Network Controller'.  (My guess is that you have a Realtek 8192 chip  if you have newish n310.)  Whatever it is make a note of the name and number.  Then, go to the Samsung support site and download the relevant driver.  Note: I would use the WinXP driver rather than Win7-the Win7 driver did not work for me.

The link is as follows 

[http://www.samsung.com/uk/consumer/pc-peripherals/notebook-computers/netbooks/NP-N310-KA01UK/index.idx?pagetype=prd_detail&tab=support](http://www.samsung.com/uk/consumer/pc-peripherals/notebook-computers/netbooks/NP-N310-KA01UK/index.idx?pagetype=prd_detail&tab=support)

For my Realtek chip the driver was 'RTL819xP_Driver'.  Unpack the driver zip file using unarchiver in a convenient location.  Now double-click your way through the driver folder until you find a folder labelled 'WinXP2K'.  Double click on that folder.  Inside you will see three files.  The one you need to make a note of is:

net819xp.inf

The 'inf' is the important bit.

3) Install Windows Wireless Drivers tool in the Ubuntu Software Centre.  (I'm assuming you have wired interest access.)

4) Install the wireless driver.

Open the Windows Wireless Driver in System>Administration.  Click on 'Install New Driver'.  You will be asked to scroll to the location of the '.inf' file.  Click 'Install'.  You just might get some odd error message.  However, once it disappears you should be left with an item with the label Hardware present:yes'.  This means that the driver has been installed and should work.

This got my wireless working on the n310 straight away.  Hope this is clear and works for you.

---

