---
title: "Installed on Thinkpad T41 Dual Heads not working"
date: 2008-05-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jvilla1983 on 2008-05-03
Hi, My name is Joseph

I'm running Ubuntu 8.04 an IBM thinkpad T41 with a radeon 7500 mobile and I was wondering how I would configure dual heads display on this. I tried this with previous versions of Ubuntu with no luck, so I'm hoping that I'll finally be able to get this resolved and be able to use my Ubuntu laptop at work. 

Here is my current Xorg configuration...

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection



I've been to many forums and have posted previously on sites like Experts-exchange, but I still have not found a good answer that solves my problem and explains the issues.

Any help is most appriciated.

Thanks a bunch!,
Joseph

---

### Post by jvilla1983 on 2008-05-04
So no one out there has any idea on how to solve this?? I've been looking everywhere on how to understand this problem and to find someone that can help on this!

---

