---
title: "xorg.conf"
date: 2008-12-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rmajano on 2008-12-19
I´m a nuw user of ubuntu 8.10 and I&#7743; having problems with the screen resolution of my lapto. The problem is that I do not know why, even if I get this output when I run this command:

$ sudo lshw -C video
  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: CyberBlade/i1
       vendor: Trident Microsystems
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 5d
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: agp agp-1.0 pm cap_list
       configuration: latency=32
I&#7743; not able to see any of this info in my xorg.conf. This is what I got:
~$ pg /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20081219135229
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
                                                                               
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
Can anyone help me to get a resolution higher than 800x600?

---

### Post by jay li on 2008-12-19
I think "***_[ubuntu-tweak]("http://ubuntu-tweak.com/downloads")_***" can help you with that. 
Download the deb file.

---

