---
title: "9.04: WLAN suddenly stopped working (Acer Aspire One / Atheros AR2425 / ath5k)"
date: 2009-05-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by NUL on 2009-05-17
Hi folks,

Im using Ubuntu Jaunty on an Acer Aspire One 150L.

Everything worked fine for quite a while except sometimes the WLAN connection dropped which could only be fixed with a "hard reset" (i.e. turning the netbook off).

From one minute to another however WLAN stopped working completely:
I'm using the ath5k driver for the AR2425 Atheros chipset.

This is what dmesg says when I insert the module:

```

[   90.276164] cfg80211: Calling CRDA to update world regulatory domain
[   90.494261] ath5k_pci 0000:03:00.0: PCI INT A -> GSI 18 (level, low) -> IRQ 18
[   90.494306] ath5k_pci 0000:03:00.0: setting latency timer to 64
[   90.494603] ath5k_pci 0000:03:00.0: registered as 'phy0'
[   90.546066] cfg80211: World regulatory domain updated:
[   90.546077]     (start_freq - end_freq @ bandwidth), (max_antenna_gain, max_eirp)
[   90.546086]     (2402000 KHz - 2472000 KHz @ 40000 KHz), (300 mBi, 2000 mBm)
[   90.546094]     (2457000 KHz - 2482000 KHz @ 20000 KHz), (300 mBi, 2000 mBm)
[   90.546102]     (2474000 KHz - 2494000 KHz @ 20000 KHz), (300 mBi, 2000 mBm)
[   90.546110]     (5170000 KHz - 5250000 KHz @ 40000 KHz), (300 mBi, 2000 mBm)
[   90.546118]     (5735000 KHz - 5835000 KHz @ 40000 KHz), (300 mBi, 2000 mBm)
[   90.563760] phy0: Selected rate control algorithm 'pid'
[   90.667420] ath5k phy0: Atheros AR2425 chip found (MAC: 0xe2, PHY: 0x70)
[   94.573812] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): wlan0: link is not ready

```I'm not sure what the last message really means but it seems impossible to even find accesspoints in the area (which are definitely there - verfied by another notebook).

```

root@aspire1:~# iwlist wlan0 scan
wlan0     No scan results

```This is strange and frankly I don't know what else to try anymore. Any ideas about this?

TIA.

---

### Post by NUL on 2009-05-21
*bump*

No one with an idea?

---

### Post by e_lm_70 on 2009-07-18
Hi NUL,

 I'm having the same problem with my Acer Aspire One ZG5 / AOA150 ...

 All work fine for a while after a power cycle ... but after the Netbook is up and running for over 10-15h, the WLAN stop to work, and the only way to make it works again is to power cycle again.

 I guess the minimun need is it have some software that can reset completely the atheros chipset in order to be able to activate again the ath5k driver.

 One additional thing that I notice, is that the WLAN speed change between 38Mbit to 1Mbit up and down randomly ... every time I do check the WLAN information fromt he Network Manager Applet ...

 Since I need a reliable WLAN I had to use an external WLAN to LAN adapter ...

If anybody have find a betetr solution

Danke

e_lm_70

---

### Post by snakeman21 on 2009-07-18
I, too am using an Acer Aspire one with Jaunty.  I've noticed the same problem, and what really bothers me is how random it is.  The wlan will work flawlessly for weeks, and then fail two or three times in just a few days.  It's incredibly annoying, any ideas?

---

### Post by NE Key on 2009-07-18
The problem is that the ath5k driver for the Atheros AR242x chip is not that brilliant.

A solution that worked for me is to install ndiswrapper which is a program that allows you to use the windows driver for the chip.

You will find instructions on how to do this all over the place - a search will reveal them, some are more informative/detailed than others.

---

