---
title: "HP mini 1000 + 8.10 Intrepid Ibex problems"
date: 2009-01-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by spacepluk on 2009-01-22
Hi everybody,
I've installed Ubuntu Desktop 8.10 (i386) on my new HP mini 1000 and I'm experiencing some problems. I've looked around but I haven't found any solution yet. So any help/comments will be much appreciated. Maybe we can write a wikipage with information about getting all this fixed.


**Power management**
- gnome-power-manager gets hanged sometimes. The icon disappears (leaving the space in the notification area) and the rest of the applets in the notification area get blocked. After some minutes everything starts to work again. This happens from time to time, maybe 5-6 in a full work day.
- gnome-power-manager lags for several seconds to update the icon when I plug/unplug the AC cable, maybe just more symtptoms of the same issue.
- Screen brightness goes up and down slowly by itself. This is very subtle but I've noticed because I like the screen to be at full brightness. I'm not sure but I think that this only happens while connected to AC power.
- Hard drive clicking. I think this is a known issue, just wondering which of the available workarounds are people using.


**Ethernet**
- Sometimes ethernet port is not recognized after booting. It doesn't show up in network manager nor can I use it through the command line: (rebooting uses to "fix it")
```
~$ sudo ifdown eth0
ifdown: interface eth0 not configured
~$ sudo ifup eth0
Ignoring unknown interface eth0=eth0.
```

UPDATE: related bug -- [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/297263](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/297263)

**Kernel Panics**
- I've got two kernel panics. Both of them while disconnecting all the cables at the end of the working day and trying to shut down the computer. "All the cables" is: AC adaptor, ethernet cable and USB-RS232 prolific adaptor. Maybe this is related to the power management issues as well.

**Minor annoyances**
- The webcam is known to be very dark. Any software solution for ubuntu?
- Anybody got multitouch to work on the touchpad? I really miss a two finger middle click.


Thanks :)

---

### Post by jputman01 on 2009-01-26
Bump, I have the same issues

---

### Post by spacepluk on 2009-01-29
Kernel panics are definetly related to the ethernet port driver (sky2).

---

### Post by Bailywolf on 2009-02-03
Any more info on this?

I put UNR on my Mini 1000, and its working pretty well.  Power management is no issue, but I've lost the ability to adjust the master volume, and I'm pretty sire the mic isn't working (though I know there's a fix for that one floating around).  I installed the hardy-based Remix, rather than installing 8.1 and then adding the Remix packages.  

I was considering rebuilding as 8.1, and adding the UNR on top, but now I'm wondering if there might be some deeper issues with 8.1 on the Mini.

-B

---

### Post by Saghaulor on 2009-02-24
I would like to mention that I have some sort of display artifact occuring.

Every now and again a box appears, and displays whatever was located in the active window, but when the active window is scrolled up or down, the box with its contents, do not move. Closing the window does not close remove the artifact. The artifact seems to leave on its own volition.

I'm not exactly sure what is triggering said artifact, but it seems to occur whenever I'm using Firefox.

It could happen with other applications, however, I only use Firefox on this machine, so I don't really now if it's more a global problem or something that Firefox is doing.

---

### Post by spacepluk on 2009-02-24
I've been under a heavy load of work lately, and don't really have much time left to debug the issues. I'm still experiencing all the problems with an up to date 8.10, and somewhat learned to live with them...

---

### Post by spacepluk on 2009-02-24
> **Saghaulor said:**
> I would like to mention that I have some sort of display artifact occuring.

Every now and again a box appears, and displays whatever was located in the active window, but when the active window is scrolled up or down, the box with its contents, do not move. Closing the window does not close remove the artifact. The artifact seems to leave on its own volition.

I'm not exactly sure what is triggering said artifact, but it seems to occur whenever I'm using Firefox.

It could happen with other applications, however, I only use Firefox on this machine, so I don't really now if it's more a global problem or something that Firefox is doing.

I don't see any display artifacts but I'm using metacity without compositing manager.

---

### Post by Saghaulor on 2009-02-24
I have disabled, and removed Compiz, so I am just using Metacity.

Spacepluk, I don't expect you to help me, especially if you don't have the time. I appreciate your response.

Any ideas are welcome.

---

### Post by spacepluk on 2009-02-26
Saghaulor, Have you tried on Windows? Just to discard a hardware problem.


UPDATE: ethernet issue related bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/297263](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/297263)

---

### Post by Saghaulor on 2009-02-26
I'm pretty confident that it is not a hardware issue. I have 9 of these netbooks, everyone has the same problem. 

It's something in Ubuntu, I'm just not sure what. Next time it happens I'll try to capture a screen shot, maybe doing so can visually capture the glitch.

---

### Post by jman82s on 2009-02-28
Another "me too" here. I actually have either a power adapter or on-board power interface that is beginning to fail. I notice that the ac power LED on my laptop periodically turns of, the the battery begins to discharge, then it'll come back on in a moment or two. This happens on all distros.

It never really bothered me until I installed Intrepid. Now, when he AC flickers on and off, the hard drive starts loading and unloading like crazy (clicking sound). I also get the brightness OSD going up and down a couple times a second.


The command 

```
sudo hdparm -B 255 /dev/sda

```

is used to disable advanced power management altogether, but it doesn't seem to stop the clicking and screen dimming.:confused:

---

### Post by spacepluk on 2009-02-28
> **Saghaulor said:**
> I'm pretty confident that it is not a hardware issue. I have 9 of these netbooks, everyone has the same problem. 

It's something in Ubuntu, I'm just not sure what. Next time it happens I'll try to capture a screen shot, maybe doing so can visually capture the glitch.

Can you make it disappear with xkill?? If so, I think that the output of "ps -Af" may help to find out what's going on.

---

### Post by silvari on 2009-03-09
Spacepluk, thanks for posting and starting this thread. I too have noticed some of the problems noted, especially:

- the slow fade-in / fade-out of LCD brightness, though it's not consistent

- the Gnome-Power-Manager behaviors, though I *think* this may have recently gotten better, and it may be because a newer version is running now. I was noticing it a couple months ago when I was running vanilla Intrepid on the Netbook; then for awhile my Ubuntu usage was less frequent (was booting to the WinXP install because I needed the reliability.... how sad) but then recently I installed Crunchbang Linux. For the first couple of hours I noticed the gnome pm issues, and was reminded of my previous annoyance, but then I did an update&upgrade and since then it has been better (thought not flawless), so, I am wondering if it was among the many packages that have been upgraded. Currently it's running 2.24.0. 

- i've noticed some screen artifacts, mostly a roughly 1"x2" in the center lower part of the screen, which does not go away with windows refreshes, but does go away on its own after a couple minutes.

---

### Post by taspankya on 2009-04-07
> **silvari said:**
> Spacepluk, thanks for posting and starting this thread. I too have noticed some of the problems noted, especially:

- the slow fade-in / fade-out of LCD brightness, though it's not consistent

- the Gnome-Power-Manager behaviors, though I *think* this may have recently gotten better, and it may be because a newer version is running now. I was noticing it a couple months ago when I was running vanilla Intrepid on the Netbook; then for awhile my Ubuntu usage was less frequent (was booting to the WinXP install because I needed the reliability.... how sad) but then recently I installed Crunchbang Linux. For the first couple of hours I noticed the gnome pm issues, and was reminded of my previous annoyance, but then I did an update&upgrade and since then it has been better (thought not flawless), so, I am wondering if it was among the many packages that have been upgraded. Currently it's running 2.24.0. 

- i've noticed some screen artifacts, mostly a roughly 1"x2" in the center lower part of the screen, which does not go away with windows refreshes, but does go away on its own after a couple minutes.

Its been a little while, has anyone found fixes for any of these?  i have all the same problems.  pretty sure this is not a hardware issue.

---

### Post by spacepluk on 2009-04-08
I've ended switching to Debian squeeze/sid, and everything is working flawless (after some tweaking). Not for everyone though.

Saludosss

---

### Post by silvari on 2009-04-11
Well, the weird fade-in/fade-out of the LCD brightness has gone away. I'm not sure what I did, for that to have changed, but I think it's because I configured gnome-power-manager to not have any settings regarding putting the machine into standby after x minutes, or blanking the screen after 7 minutes, etc.

---

### Post by mattwilkes512 on 2009-06-25
> **silvari said:**
> Well, the weird fade-in/fade-out of the LCD brightness has gone away. I'm not sure what I did, for that to have changed, but I think it's because I configured gnome-power-manager to not have any settings regarding putting the machine into standby after x minutes, or blanking the screen after 7 minutes, etc.

Just did the same on my mini 1000 and seems to have fixed the annoying autodim.  Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by DouglasAWh on 2009-11-09
I have the problem in the Karmic version of the netbook remix.

*le sigh*

---

### Post by DouglasAWh on 2009-11-09
> **spacepluk said:**
> I've ended switching to Debian squeeze/sid, and everything is working flawless (after some tweaking). Not for everyone though.

Saludosss

So, how does Debian deal with the non-free Broadcom wireless driver?

---

