---
title: "(12.10) Radeon HD 7850 &amp; Intel HD 4000"
date: 2012-11-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by shouthouse on 2012-11-10
I'm having quite the rough time figuring out how to install my graphics drivers correctly. Ubuntu runs fine off of the integrated 4000, however I do not have a screen that has vga. I need to use the mini displayport from the Radeon HD 7850. (I have to use my girlfriend's screen while setting ubuntu up which means she can't use her computer)

I have tried many things including [http://askubuntu.com/questions/205112/ubuntu-12-10-amd-intel-hybrid-graphics-not-working/210565#210565]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/205112/ubuntu-12-10-amd-intel-hybrid-graphics-not-working/210565#210565")


However when I got to the first reboot in those directions ubuntu would only boot into low graphics mode and would stop recognizing my input devices. Thus I am stuck. Spent about 8 hours yesterday screwing around with all of the different ways I could.



ASRock Z77 Pro4-m
Intel i5 3570k w/ integrated HD 4000
MSI Radeon HD 7850 2gb
8 gb Corsair Vengeance 1600 MHz
Caviar Black 1TB

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-11-10
I don't have dual graphics cards, but this thread seems to fit your setup quite well:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1930450](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1930450)

---

### Post by shouthouse on 2012-11-10
Wow thanks I am going to try that out. I hope I am able to get to the terminal to purge. I gave up last night when it went wonky on me again. I am anxious to figure this out. I rather enjoy Linux except for I'm a noob so I get frustrated.

Reading through this it seems that it should not work. At the end of the thread it explains that it isn't working on a 7570 or most setups, and that it is for 12.04.

---

### Post by shouthouse on 2012-11-11
I again got to the reboot and it is saying that it cannot properly detect the settings. Ugh... hmmm I am so curious... Tomorrow I may uninstall and try again from a clean untainted system.


EDIT: Anyone know what I may be doing wrong?
Ugh I really have no idea. Starting over agaaaain.

---

### Post by shouthouse on 2012-11-11
Is there anything I may be able to do from UEFI to force the computer to only use discrete card upon boot?



Definitely does not work. Complete bummer.

---

### Post by verdomde on 2012-11-19
there is a workaround to just use intel driver, [http://techhamlet.com/2012/05/ubuntu-how-to-fix-over-heating-of-laptops-with-switchable-graphics/](http://techhamlet.com/2012/05/ubuntu-how-to-fix-over-heating-of-laptops-with-switchable-graphics/)
I have the same problem i guess, a lot of people do- there is a bug that may apply [https://bugs.launchpad.net/fglrx/+bug/1068661](https://bugs.launchpad.net/fglrx/+bug/1068661), read it carefully, as there is a bit of a mix between this kind of bug, and people needing the legacy drivers for radeon 4000 and other earlier ones... When stuck at low graphics mode purge all fglrx* this should get you back to your home screen. My problem then was overheating comp, and poor battery. So i switched to sandybridge for my intel card.

As far as i can see on AMD's site my card isnt suported by thier proprietary drivers, you might want to check.
Paul

---

### Post by ronin12 on 2013-06-24
HI
it looks that I have the same problem now...
I mean I have just installed the system but have the same graphics card and ASUS (as well) and it looks like UUNTU is using my Intel HD 4000 insterd. My motherboard ASUS P8 Z77-V lx2.
Did you sort it out in any way?
How should I install my graphics card now?

---

