---
title: "9.04/Jaunty spontaneously stops using external mouse input"
date: 2009-05-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by joshuadugie on 2009-05-06
It seems that Jaunty spontaneously decides to no longer use any form of mouse input other than the trackpad on my Dell XPS M1530 laptop.  I have connected to it a Bluetooth keyboard, Bluetooth mouse, wireless USB mouse, and wired USB mouse at this time and the only thing that works is the Bluetooth keyboard (and the trackpad on the laptop itself) after this random moment.  Restarting X/logging out fixes the problem, but after logging in again, eventually something happens and it will stop using external mice again.

---

### Post by GadgetVirtuoso on 2009-07-04
This is exactly the problem I've been seeing as well. Have you found a solution?

---

### Post by nrohluap on 2009-08-11
Same for me. Thinkpad T61p. It seems that some work is being done against this issue: see [http://www.mail-archive.com/xorg@lists.freedesktop.org/msg07970.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/xorg@lists.freedesktop.org/msg07970.html). Basically the Bluetooth stack leaves the mouse as a "device" and attaches a new one every time the bluetooth connection is lost/ restored. After 20 reconnects, X won't add any more input devices - so even pluggin in a corded mouse won't correct it. X must be restarted. To us users it appears random, as it is based on how often BT drops/reconnects until the 20 device limit is reached.

Short solution is either use a corded USB mouse, or apply the patch mentioned above. Longer term is wait for your distro to have the patch.

uname -a: 
Linux paul-t61p 2.6.28-14-generic #47-Ubuntu SMP Sat Jul 25 01:19:55 UTC 2009 x86_64 GNU/Linux

Primary mouse is a Logitech bluetooth. Once it stops, plugging in a corded USB mouse doesn't work either. I get this in syslog:

Aug 11 10:52:41 paul-t61p kernel: [392716.696106] usb 5-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 2
Aug 11 10:52:41 paul-t61p kernel: [392716.883545] usb 5-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
Aug 11 10:52:41 paul-t61p kernel: [392716.942249] usbcore: registered new interface driver hiddev
Aug 11 10:52:41 paul-t61p kernel: [392716.958005] input: Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM) as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1d.0/usb5/5-1/5-1:1.0/input/input39
Aug 11 10:52:41 paul-t61p kernel: [392716.985636] generic-usb 0003:045E:0040.001E: input,hidraw29: USB HID v1.10 Mouse [Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM)] on usb-0000:00:1d.0-1/input0
Aug 11 10:52:41 paul-t61p kernel: [392716.985689] usbcore: registered new interface driver usbhid
Aug 11 10:52:41 paul-t61p kernel: [392716.985878] usbhid: v2.6:USB HID core driver

But no mouse movement until I log out / log in again.

In Xorg.0.log, I see this over and over:

(EE) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Read error: No such device
(II) config/hal: removing device Bluetooth Travel Mouse
(II) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Close
(II) UnloadModule: "evdev"
(II) config/hal: Adding input device Bluetooth Travel Mouse
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: always reports core events
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Device: "/dev/input/event10"
(II) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Found 8 mouse buttons
(II) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Found x and y relative axes
(II) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Configuring as mouse
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: YAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: EmulateWheelButton: 4, EmulateWheelInertia: 10, EmulateWheelTimeout: 200
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Bluetooth Travel Mouse" (type: MOUSE)
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: (accel) keeping acceleration scheme 1
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: (accel) filter chain progression: 2.00
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: (accel) filter stage 0: 20.00 ms
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: (accel) set acceleration profile 0

Near the end of the log, right after plugging in the USB mouse, is this:

(EE) Too many input devices. Ignoring Bluetooth Travel Mouse
(II) UnloadModule: "evdev"
(EE) config/hal: NewInputDeviceRequest failed (11)
(II) config/hal: Adding input device Bluetooth Travel Mouse
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: always reports core events
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Device: "/dev/input/event10"
(II) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Found 8 mouse buttons
(II) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Found x and y relative axes
(II) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: Configuring as mouse
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: YAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
(**) Bluetooth Travel Mouse: EmulateWheelButton: 4, EmulateWheelInertia: 10, EmulateWheelTimeout: 200
(EE) Too many input devices. Ignoring Bluetooth Travel Mouse
(II) UnloadModule: "evdev"
(EE) config/hal: NewInputDeviceRequest failed (11)
(II) config/hal: Adding input device Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM)
(**) Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM): always reports core events
(**) Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM): Device: "/dev/input/event11"
(II) Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM): Found 3 mouse buttons
(II) Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM): Found x and y relative axes
(II) Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM): Configuring as mouse
(**) Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM): YAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
(**) Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM): EmulateWheelButton: 4, EmulateWheelInertia: 10, EmulateWheelTimeout: 200
(EE) Too many input devices. Ignoring Microsoft Microsoft 3-Button Mouse with IntelliEye(TM)
(II) UnloadModule: "evdev"
(EE) config/hal: NewInputDeviceRequest failed (11)

Once the device drop/connect communication between bluetooth stack and HAL/kernel is patched up, this problem should go away.

---

### Post by kinggo on 2009-08-16
I have the same problem with my Kensington BT Slimblade mouse. At first I didn't know where to start because my mouse don't drop connection always the same way. Now I now what is the problem, But patching kernel is a bit to much for me :) So I'll stick with log out, log in solution for now.

---

### Post by Aleksis on 2009-10-12
For those desperate for a viable workaround while the problem persists, I recommend trying the following as it works for me.

# sudo modprobe -r usbmouse && sudo modprobe -i usbmouse

That works for my mouse — it can then be plugged into any usb port and will work, this workaround isn't almighty though since my usb storage works in neither of the ports. So I fix it in the same fashion:

# sudo modprobe -r usb-storage && sudo modprobe -i usb-storage

I get the module names by asking modprobe (modprobe -l usb*).
Don't know what would work for other devices or if there's a way to reset all usb stuff at once.
Also, creating a custom command for these lines is sweet.

---

