---
title: "11.04 NoWorkee! 10.10 KindaSorta!"
date: 2011-07-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lmart on 2011-07-25
Downloaded multiple times, Lubuntu 11.04 iso, created LiveCD.  It will not boot on any of my computers.

Downloaded Lubuntu 10.10, created LiveCD.  It booted.  Recognized my laptop keyboard and usb mouse.  Installed to hdd.  On reboot, would not recognize my laptop keyboard, recognized mouse.  Powered down, plugged in PS2 keyboard, rebooted.  Did not recognize my keyboard, recognized mouse.  Powered down, plugged in USB keyboard, rebooted.  Recognize my keyboard and, mouse.

How do I get 11.04 working?
How do I get 10.10 to recognize my keyboard.

A hardware report, under PuppyLinux2.52, follows.


Summary
Computer
Processor	Mobile Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 - M CPU 1.70GHz
Memory	514MB (86MB used)
Operating System	Puppy Linux 0.52
User Name	root (root)
Date/Time	Mon 25 Jul 2011 06:18:17 PM CDT
Display
Resolution	1024x768 pixels
OpenGL Renderer	Unknown
X11 Vendor	The X.Org Foundation
Multimedia
Audio Adapter	ICH - Intel 82801CA-ICH3
Audio Adapter	ICH-MODEM - Intel 82801CA-ICH3 Modem
Input Devices
AT Translated Set 2 keyboard	
SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad	
Logitech USB Receiver	
Lid Switch	
Power Button	
Sleep Button	
Power Button	
Video Bus	
PC Speaker	
Printers (CUPS)
CUPS-PDF	
pdf_writer	Default
SCSI Disks
ATA FUJITSU MHH2048A	
LG CD-ROM CRN-8245B

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-07-25
First things first, please re-download the .iso file and check the [MD5SUM]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM").

Next, [burn the .iso file ]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto")to a cd on the slowest possible burn rate ensuring that you are burning the image, and not just writing the image as a file to a cd.

Finally, ensure that you have the proper boot order (CD/DVD priority at the top of the list) in BIOS and attempt to boot off the cd and see if it works this time around.

---

### Post by lmart on 2011-07-25
SeaWolf167
Thanks.
Did all of the things you recommended with each download/burn iso cycle of 11.04 and 10.10 lubuntu.

---

