---
title: "9.10 on HP nx6110"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Lilonius on 2009-11-13
Hi,

I tried to run live cd of Koala in my pretty old nx6110 and it would stuck in the middle of booting up. I would really like to install new ubuntu on that one but since the live cd won't boot up i am not sure i should do. 

has anyone here installed it on this machine (nx6110)?

ps: i can get to the menu where i can choose do i want to try it out, install etc. and i have run some diagnostics on memory and hdd and all passed well. it's just that i can not run a 'tryout' from the cd.

---

### Post by bodee2010 on 2009-11-13
I already installed the Ubuntu 9.10 on my old nx6110 with the following specifications Pentium M 2.00 GHz and 512 MB ram and 80 GB Hard disk. It works very nice and all hardware works smoothly. really I didn't try the live CD so I don't know about your problem, It may be from the CD itself, is it OK or not
Of course I install it besid th windows 7 which works too slow with my laptop

---

### Post by Lilonius on 2009-11-13
@bodee2010 thanks for the reply. i have 1.6 mhz, but i guess everything else is the same. i tried the cd with my dell and it was working smoothly. 


So i guess i try to make a Wubi install first, so i don't screw everything up.

---

### Post by mrdanny on 2010-01-09
So does Karmic Koala work on nx6110?

I am also having trouble booting livecd to test it.

So far only 8.04 (hardy) has worked for me on this laptop. Actually I'm on it right now(livecd).

---

### Post by Lilonius on 2010-02-11
I tried to install ubuntu 9.04, ubuntu 9.10, xubuntu 9.10 via pen drive, but it simply did not work. everytime it would stuck on 40% or 60%.

Since i had no optical drive on that one, i borrowed one and installed 9.04 and later upgraded to 9.10.

So far so good. All the hardware seams to be recognized and working well.

---

