---
title: "Tried to install new Nvidia driver 180.22, now having trouble with graphics"
date: 2009-01-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by thugpoet22 on 2009-01-15
HI , i think i just messed up my Ubuntu distro a little. In an attempt to get my graphics working better i might have taken a step backwards. I am currently using the default graphics because linux is not using my current graphics card which is a Gforce 6600. 

I installed the 180.22 nvidia drivers thinking that they were the most currently and might allow my system to run better graphic effects. When i restarted my distro it went into some sort of safe mode type thing telling me (EE) Nvidia (0) failed to initialize the Nvidia kernel module. Please help me if you can. Thanks in advance. 

Once booted up i even tried Glx gear and this is what i get 

aviedw@GeeksRus:~$ glxgears
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual


And when i run this command this is what i get

aviedw@GeeksRus:~$ glxinfo | grep -i direct
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual or fbconfig
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".

Im not sure what i did but i hope and pray its fixable. If any help or ideas can be shared please feel free to post your thoughts.

---

### Post by zietbukuel on 2009-01-15
Have you uninstalled the previous version of the driver? Maby the old driver is getting loaded and causing that mess.

---

### Post by after9 on 2009-01-15
Is the glx module still being loaded in your xorg.conf?

---

### Post by copperfish on 2009-01-15
I'm assuming you followed the instructions on Nvidia's site.

Firstly the 180.22 drivers won't work if you have *any* default Nvidia packages installed.  Check Synaptic for any nvidia/177/173 etc. packages and remove them.  Then follow the Nvidia install instructions.

Ctrl-Alt-F1
sudo killall gdm
sh nvidia NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.22-pkg1.run
etc....

If you need to clean out the 180.22 drivers and go back to your system as it was:

Ctrl-Alt-F1
sudo killall gdm
nvidia-uninstall

and then, if I remember correctly you may have to do the safe mode reconfiguration thing.

If you have a desktop try getting the 180.22 drivers working by cleaning out the default packages and installing again.  On a laptop I suggest cleaning the 180.22 install and going back to 177.x drivers.

On a laptop you can improve the performance of the 177 series drivers by adding

Option “PixmapCacheSize” “1000000&#8243;
Option “AllowSHMPixmaps” “0&#8243;

to the Device section of xorg.conf and running

nvidia-settings -a InitialPixmapPlacement=2 -a GlyphCache=1

as part of the GNOME session startup helps.  Still not perfect, but at least suspend and hibernate work reliably.

---

### Post by thugpoet22 on 2009-01-17
I've tried all that has been suggested and still no dice. For all of those who are helping me much thanks. I just wanted to bring something else to the everybody's attention. The driver that im downloading and installing is the 180.22 but when i go to the package manager its listed as 180.11 -Oubuntu1~int

On another note when i look into the Hardware Driver under Administration no third party drivers are listed there. And when i start my computer it tells me that i cant find the necessary drivers to get the system running so it asked me if i wanted to use the default graphics and that's what I'm using right now to write this reply.

Another thing here is my xorg.confi file. Would it be possible for someone here to tell me what might look wrong.

> nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Tue Jan  6 10:03:02 PST 2009
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Default Screen"
	Device         "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
	Option         "NoLogo" "True"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
		Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection

So if anybody has a suggestion please post thanks.

---

### Post by thugpoet22 on 2009-01-18
I just wanted to think everybody here that took the time to help me. I finally figured it out. My graphics is running soooo much better than it use to. I can actually turn on the extra effects and not slow down the system at all. I simply needed to remove everything that had to do with Nvidia before i installed the new drivers and now it works like a charm. Now my next project is to get compriz-fusion to work.

---

