---
title: "9.04+ EEE 1000HV + mobility radeon hd 3450 + fglrx = invalid bios signature/X11 crash"
date: 2009-06-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Plinius on 2009-06-17
hey there :D

it's my first post and i do not speak that good english, so please be gentle ;P

my problem is the following:
i've bought an Asus EEE 1000HV - it's practically the same as the 1000HE, but with a dedicated graphics card: a mobility radeon hd 3450 with 256 vram

with XP everything works fine, but you know, i weren't posting in an ubuntu forum if i were satisfied with windumb... ;)

i've installed jaunty jackalope and everything works out of the box: wlan, ethernet, webcam, mic, sound...even the hotkeys
(the only minor glitch i've found was a non proper working "radeon" driver installed that had malfunctioning 2D animations...works perfectly with "radeonhd", though)

BUT
i want the proprietary fglrx driver!
out of two reasons: 3D acceleration and powerplay (power saving)
i'm still using XP for both reasons...3d performance is better with the original drivers and got around 5 hours of battery life with xp, and only 3 in ubuntu, using the radeonhd driver

and here is my BIG Problem:
whenever i install the fglrx, ubuntu won't start
the X11 seems to crash and the only thing i get to see is a kind of "blurred", green, double-ubuntu logo (like the one you see when you boot with mesa/vesa drivers or what every they are called)

when i look into the Xorg.0.log it says:
> [INDENT](II) LoadModule: "fglrxdrm"
[/INDENT][INDENT](II) Reloading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/linux//libfglrxdrm.so
[/INDENT][INDENT](--) fglrx(0): Chipset: "ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3400 Series" (Chipset = 0x95c4)
[/INDENT][INDENT](--) fglrx(0): (PciSubVendor = 0x1043, PciSubDevice = 0x836a)
[/INDENT][INDENT](--) fglrx(0): board vendor info: third party graphics adapter - NOT original ATI
[/INDENT][INDENT](--) fglrx(0): Linear framebuffer (phys) at 0xe8000000
[/INDENT][INDENT](--) fglrx(0): MMIO registers at 0xfbef0000
[/INDENT][INDENT](--) fglrx(0): I/O port at 0x0000d000
[/INDENT][INDENT](==) fglrx(0): ROM-BIOS at 0x000c0000
[/INDENT][INDENT](II) Loading sub module "int10"
[/INDENT][INDENT](II) LoadModule: "int10"
[/INDENT][INDENT](II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libint10.so
[/INDENT][INDENT](II) Module int10: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[/INDENT][INDENT]    compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 1.0.0
[/INDENT][INDENT]    ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 5.0
[/INDENT][INDENT](EE) fglrx(0): Invalid video BIOS signature!
[/INDENT][INDENT](EE) fglrx(0): GetBIOSParameter failed
[/INDENT][INDENT](EE) fglrx(0): PreInitConfig failed
[/INDENT][INDENT](EE) fglrx(0): PreInit failed
[/INDENT]the only thing i can do is to get into the recovery prompt shell, remove the xorg-driver-fglrx and to restore a xorg.conf backup...

the ways i approached to install the fglrx:
installed by hardware monitor (or whatever it is called in english...the 1-click way)
installed by synaptic
installed with envyng
installed ati 9.5 catalyst with their installer
installed ati 9.5 catalyst manually (package generation + aticonfig --initial)
installed ati 9.6 catalyst with their installer
installed ati 9.6 catalyst manually (package generation + aticonfig --initial)

please please please help me!
i want to finally get rid of XP and to get ubuntu properly working...
if you have any ideas what i can do, (and even if it is: wait for 9.10) please tell me!

with best regards and thanks in advance!
plinius

edit: i frogot: i've already installed opensuse 11.1 to give it a try...but have got the same error message again!

---

### Post by Plinius on 2009-06-18
bump - i've also tried to change the resolution options in the xorg.conf, but it didn't help

has anyone got ideas what i can do? :(

---

### Post by Plinius on 2009-06-18
does anybody have an idea?
i'm sorry for bumping, but this is a very annoying and urgent problem :/

cheers

---

### Post by mr_raider on 2009-06-18
I'm using an hp dv2 laptop with the same GPU but AMD CPU. The default 9.04 driver loaded fine for me.

---

### Post by Plinius on 2009-06-18
the default driver is/was loaded for me too...
but i need the fglrx - but unfortunately it refuses to work :(

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-06-18
The mobility HD3450 is not listed as supported in the release notes for that driver.

---

### Post by Plinius on 2009-06-19
still...people with e.g. Dell Studio 1537's have the fglrx working on their mobilit radeon hd 3450...
so i don't see any real reason why it shouldn't work with mine...

could it be related to these bugs?
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usplash/+bug/346028](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usplash/+bug/346028)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/355495](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/355495)

cheers

---

### Post by mr_raider on 2009-06-19
> **Plinius said:**
> the default driver is/was loaded for me too...
but i need the fglrx - but unfortunately it refuses to work :(

You misunderstand. I'm using fglrx with the 3400 mobility. I'm using the Ubuntu 9.04 version. The only problem I have is playing video with compiz enabled, and maximizing windows. I just leave compiz off for now.

---

### Post by Plinius on 2009-06-20
but the thing i wonder is, that i get the "Invalid Video Bios Signature" error...seems to be a 1000HV specific problem, because i had a look at the italian ubuntu forums and there was one user posting a Xorg.0.log with the exact same error messages...

i really wish that i could the fglrx :/
do you guys have any experience how such things are handled? is there a chance that canonical or the ubuntu community might iron out the problem? or is it too hardware specific?

cheers

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-06-21
file a bug report at the ati bugzilla.

---

### Post by damonrand on 2009-06-24
Hi Plinius,

I'm able to reproduce your problem. I just bought a shiny new Acer Timeline 4810TG with a Mobility Radeon HD 4330 card. A fresh install of Ubuntu 9.04. As you report, it works just fine with opensource drivers but proprietary ATI fglrx drivers give the messed up screen on boot. I too played around with xorg.conf resolutions trying to get it too work. I am also seeing my battery life reduced from 5 hours under Windows to less than three hours under Linux. :-(

I'm attaching my logs too.

Damon.

```

drmOpenByBusid: Searching for BusID PCI:1:0:0
drmOpenDevice: node name is /dev/dri/card0
drmOpenDevice: open result is 10, (OK)
drmOpenByBusid: drmOpenMinor returns 10
drmOpenByBusid: drmGetBusid reports PCI:1:0:0
(--) fglrx(0): Chipset: "ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4300 Series" (Chipset = 0x9552)
(--) fglrx(0): (PciSubVendor = 0x1025, PciSubDevice = 0x023d)
(--) fglrx(0): board vendor info: third party graphics adapter - NOT original ATI
(--) fglrx(0): Linear framebuffer (phys) at 0xc0000000
(--) fglrx(0): MMIO registers at 0xe4400000
(--) fglrx(0): I/O port at 0x00004000
(==) fglrx(0): ROM-BIOS at 0x000c0000
(II) fglrx(0): AC Adapter is used
(EE) fglrx(0): Invalid video BIOS signature!
(EE) fglrx(0): GetBIOSParameter failed
(EE) fglrx(0): PreInitAdatper failed
(EE) fglrx(0): PreInit failed
(II) fglrx(0): === [atiddxPreInit] === end
(EE) fglrx(0): PPLIB: PPLIB is not initialized!.
(EE) fglrx(0): PPLIB: swlPPLibNotifyEventToPPLib() failed!
(EE) fglrx(0):        ulEventType = 0000000c, ulEventData = 00000001

Backtrace:
0: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(xorg_backtrace+0x3b) [0x813518b]
1: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(xf86SigHandler+0x55) [0x80c7be5]
2: [0xb807b400]
3: /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//fglrx_drv.so(atiddxFreeScreen+0x152) [0xb73eb5e2]
4: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(xf86DeleteScreen+0x6e) [0x80d4a6e]
5: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(InitOutput+0xe6f) [0x80b076f]
6: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(main+0x1e1) [0x8072111]
7: /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6(__libc_start_main+0xe5) [0xb7c4f775]
8: /usr/X11R6/bin/X [0x80717a1]
Saw signal 11.  Server aborting.
 ddxSigGiveUp: Closing log

```

---

### Post by avilella on 2009-06-24
Hi damonrand,

Can you check if the Acer Timeline 4810T comes with a hybrid graphics ATI card?

What do you get when running this command on a terminal?

lspci | grep VGA

If you see two lines then you have a hybrid graphics card.


> **damonrand said:**
> Hi Plinius,

I'm able to reproduce your problem. I just bought a shiny new Acer Timeline 4810TG with a Mobility Radeon HD 4330 card. A fresh install of Ubuntu 9.04. As you report, it works just fine with opensource drivers but proprietary ATI fglrx drivers give the messed up screen on boot. I too played around with xorg.conf resolutions trying to get it too work. I am also seeing my battery life reduced from 5 hours under Windows to less than three hours under Linux. :-(

I'm attaching my logs too.

Damon.

```

drmOpenByBusid: Searching for BusID PCI:1:0:0
drmOpenDevice: node name is /dev/dri/card0
drmOpenDevice: open result is 10, (OK)
drmOpenByBusid: drmOpenMinor returns 10
drmOpenByBusid: drmGetBusid reports PCI:1:0:0
(--) fglrx(0): Chipset: "ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4300 Series" (Chipset = 0x9552)
(--) fglrx(0): (PciSubVendor = 0x1025, PciSubDevice = 0x023d)
(--) fglrx(0): board vendor info: third party graphics adapter - NOT original ATI
(--) fglrx(0): Linear framebuffer (phys) at 0xc0000000
(--) fglrx(0): MMIO registers at 0xe4400000
(--) fglrx(0): I/O port at 0x00004000
(==) fglrx(0): ROM-BIOS at 0x000c0000
(II) fglrx(0): AC Adapter is used
(EE) fglrx(0): Invalid video BIOS signature!
(EE) fglrx(0): GetBIOSParameter failed
(EE) fglrx(0): PreInitAdatper failed
(EE) fglrx(0): PreInit failed
(II) fglrx(0): === [atiddxPreInit] === end
(EE) fglrx(0): PPLIB: PPLIB is not initialized!.
(EE) fglrx(0): PPLIB: swlPPLibNotifyEventToPPLib() failed!
(EE) fglrx(0):        ulEventType = 0000000c, ulEventData = 00000001

Backtrace:
0: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(xorg_backtrace+0x3b) [0x813518b]
1: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(xf86SigHandler+0x55) [0x80c7be5]
2: [0xb807b400]
3: /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//fglrx_drv.so(atiddxFreeScreen+0x152) [0xb73eb5e2]
4: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(xf86DeleteScreen+0x6e) [0x80d4a6e]
5: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(InitOutput+0xe6f) [0x80b076f]
6: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(main+0x1e1) [0x8072111]
7: /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6(__libc_start_main+0xe5) [0xb7c4f775]
8: /usr/X11R6/bin/X [0x80717a1]
Saw signal 11.  Server aborting.
 ddxSigGiveUp: Closing log

```

---

### Post by damonrand on 2009-06-24
Hi avilella,

Yes, my laptop does indeed have two lines. It has both an Intel onboard graphics card and an ATI radeon 4330. Turns out Linux was running on the Intel graphics (glxgears=600) but the ATI was still running draining lots of battery.

So, I checked on the Acer website. Great news. Yesterday they uploaded a new BIOS (v1.20) that adds support for setting graphics to (Hybrid/Discrete). So I flashed my bios and set graphics from Hybrid to Discrete. Then I start Linux and its running on Vesa drivers (glxgears=170).

So then I reinstall latest Catalyst 9.6 fglrx drivers. And reboot and now I have working fglrx drivers. (glxgears=3000). How cool is that? :-)

I wish my BIOS also had a way to turn off the Radeon so it doesn't suck any power when I want a long session in the net cafe but at least I can now use ATI Powerplay to optimize its power drain.

Damon.

---

### Post by avilella on 2009-06-24
This is very good news, thank for reporting back with detail.

I would like to ask you for a bit more info if you can spare a few minutes:

We are gathering technical information to improve Linux support on hybrid graphics cards: could you please submit your DSDT.dsl information as an attachment to this bug report? 

[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/312756](http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/312756)

To compile your DSDT information, install if you haven't already the acpidump and iasl tools:
sudo apt-get install acpidump iasl

Then run the following commands:

sudo acpidump > acpidump.txt
sudo acpixtract acpidump.txt
iasl -d DSDT.dat

This will create a DSDT.dsl file that you can attach to the bug report. This information will allow the developers to fully implement the hybrid graphics features for Linux.

Finally, for posting the information in the bug report, you can check
the model and generation identifier for your computer with this
command:
sudo dmidecode -s system-product-name
And the model of the graphics card/s with this command:
lspci | grep VGA

Thanks in advance,

> **damonrand said:**
> Hi avilella,

Yes, my laptop does indeed have two lines. It has both an Intel onboard graphics card and an ATI radeon 4330. Turns out Linux was running on the Intel graphics (glxgears=600) but the ATI was still running draining lots of battery.

So, I checked on the Acer website. Great news. Yesterday they uploaded a new BIOS (v1.20) that adds support for setting graphics to (Hybrid/Discrete). So I flashed my bios and set graphics from Hybrid to Discrete. Then I start Linux and its running on Vesa drivers (glxgears=170).

So then I reinstall latest Catalyst 9.6 fglrx drivers. And reboot and now I have working fglrx drivers. (glxgears=3000). How cool is that? :-)

I wish my BIOS also had a way to turn off the Radeon so it doesn't suck any power when I want a long session in the net cafe but at least I can now use ATI Powerplay to optimize its power drain.

Damon.

---

### Post by damonrand on 2009-06-24
Cool, posted that DSDT.dsl now.

Damon.

---

### Post by damonrand on 2009-06-24
Oh, and by the way, just installing the fglrx drivers and turning on the ATI power management has resulted in a huge drop in temperature of my laptop! :-)

Damon.

---

### Post by Plinius on 2009-06-24
That's awesome!:D but does this knowledge have any chance to help me with my 1000hv?as far as i have checked i don't have options in the bios for graphics:/ is there anything i can tweak inside ubuntu? Or may your discovery even help that ubuntu get's "native" support for my netbook? I'm really sad,cause i love ubuntu but am frustrated because i can't usd my graphics card;-(
please,if you have any advice for me,tell me! Cheers and many thanks for sharing your experience:D

---

### Post by avilella on 2009-06-24
Hi Plinius,

It probably won't help much right now, because we are still in the process of gathering enough info for the developers in the linux graphics and Xorg community to work with.

Can you run this command on a terminal on your 1000hv?

lspci | grep VGA

If you see two lines then you have a hybrid graphics card, but if you only see one line for the ATI chip you just have to worry about ATI drivers...


> **Plinius said:**
> That's awesome!:D but does this knowledge have any chance to help me with my 1000hv?as far as i have checked i don't have options in the bios for graphics:/ is there anything i can tweak inside ubuntu? Or may your discovery even help that ubuntu get's "native" support for my netbook? I'm really sad,cause i love ubuntu but am frustrated because i can't usd my graphics card;-(
please,if you have any advice for me,tell me! Cheers and many thanks for sharing your experience:D

---

### Post by Plinius on 2009-06-24
alright :)

am booting jaunty right now and are running the command soon... if i have a dual graphics card, should i post my dsdt.dsl, too?
(btw: what exactly is the dsdt.dsl?)

cheers :D

---

### Post by Plinius on 2009-06-24
damn it, it seems to be a single card :(

entered lspci | grep VGA and got
> 03:00.0 VGAcompatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Mobility Radeon HD 3400 Seriesso back to the start for me, again :(

edit:
oh and i've contacted ASUS as well as ATI but both refuse me to support me...
ATI says that ASUS has the exclusive rights to provide drivers and ASUS tells me that they don't have a linux support
so i'm pretty screwed, I think :( (before i forget: i've postet a launchpad bug report and a ati bugzilla file report...bot no replies from their sides yet)

---

### Post by csipuka on 2009-07-07
Not relevant. Sorry.
Can be deleted.

---

### Post by vectori on 2009-09-09
> **damonrand said:**
> Hi avilella,

Yes, my laptop does indeed have two lines. It has both an Intel onboard graphics card and an ATI radeon 4330. Turns out Linux was running on the Intel graphics (glxgears=600) but the ATI was still running draining lots of battery.

So, I checked on the Acer website. Great news. Yesterday they uploaded a new BIOS (v1.20) that adds support for setting graphics to (Hybrid/Discrete). So I flashed my bios and set graphics from Hybrid to Discrete. Then I start Linux and its running on Vesa drivers (glxgears=170).

So then I reinstall latest Catalyst 9.6 fglrx drivers. And reboot and now I have working fglrx drivers. (glxgears=3000). How cool is that? :-)

I wish my BIOS also had a way to turn off the Radeon so it doesn't suck any power when I want a long session in the net cafe but at least I can now use ATI Powerplay to optimize its power drain.

Damon.

Thanks ! That totally solved my problem.

I just bought Acer Aspire 5810TG and wasn't able to get flgrx to work at all. It crashed in the same way like yours.

- downloaded new driver ( Catalyst 9.8 ) from ati and installed it.
- changed graphics to Discrete from BIOS.
- Boot
And glxgears give me something like 2000fps... :)

---

