---
title: "High xorg cpu usage with NVIDIA GTX 560 Ti"
date: 2012-07-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by joek1010 on 2012-07-05
Hi,

Just built a new rig and I'm having some problems with X. After maybe 12-16 hours of uptime Xorg cpu utilisation starts bouncing around between 15-30%. Doesn't sound that bad, but input latency essentially makes the system unusable.

**Relevant Hardware Specs:**

Gigabyte NVIDIA GeForce 560 Ti 1 GB
Quad-core Intel CPU

**What I've tried:**

After testing (and consulting the wiki page on this issue) discovered that it doesn't matter what apps I have open (system becomes unusable regardless after 12-16 hours of uptime). I've also tried multiple window managers (Awesome WM, Unity, etc) but always get the same result.

I've tried several versions of the NVIDIA proprietary driver, including the X-SWAT PPA. If I use the NVIDIA drivers in the repos (nvidia-current or nvidia-current-update) I get another fun issue where after maybe 16-24 hours of uptime I get green squares in a pattern all over the screen. I'm not sure if this issue is related.

Finally, I have a Windows 7 install on my box that works perfectly (stressed test the GPU with some Crysis 2, no problems).

Also tried nouveau, which doesn't seem to drive the monitor at native resolution (have a 1080P monitor, nouveau only allows me to set it to 1024x768 or something like that).

Any suggestions? Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by joek1010 on 2012-07-07
Switched to integrated video, no problems, further confirming that its an issue with the NVIDIA hardware/driver. This is a pretty crappy workaround though ...

Any suggestions? Anyone have any similar problems?

---

### Post by Axxon95 on 2012-07-07
> **joek1010 said:**
> Switched to integrated video, no problems, further confirming that its an issue with the NVIDIA hardware/driver. This is a pretty crappy workaround though ...

Any suggestions? Anyone have any similar problems?

I've used the Ubuntu-X PPA for a while now with no issues. I to have an Intel Quad CPU and NVIDIA GeForce GPU, and they seem to be fine.
Here is my guide of purging old drivers, and installing the Ubuntu-X Drivers correctly: [ [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMi3-2MyBtQ](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMi3-2MyBtQ) ]
Hopefully this could help some.
Give this a test run and report back. :)

---

### Post by joek1010 on 2012-07-09
Thanks for the help, unfortunately no dice. I followed the instructions and now I can't even get X to start. I'm going to have to dig through some Xorg logs to figure this out ...

I'm thinking a bad xorg.conf may be the root of my issues.

As a side note, the xorg.conf situation in 12.04 is really confusing me.

---

### Post by vladashram on 2012-07-19
I'm having the same issue as you. I'm running with a nvidia geforce 8800 gtx.
After some issues i tried manually installing nvidia driver 259.59 from their website, which was a bit tricky to do but it didnt help at all.

I agree that its likely in the xorg.conf
I'll post if I can fix it in mine. Let me know if you get it working.

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2012-07-19
Post your xorg.conf file here !
```
sudo cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

If you get any error on the above command, also post the error.

---

### Post by joek1010 on 2012-07-29
So far unable to fix this issue. Here's my xorg.conf (as generated by nvidia-xconf and nvidia-settings).

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 295.59  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-03.nvidia.com)  Wed Jun  6 22:23:02 PDT 2012

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 295.59  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-03.nvidia.com)  Wed Jun  6 22:23:24 PDT 2012

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Westinghouse Digital Electronics L2410NM"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 560 Ti"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Edit: Should mention that this xorg.conf will allow me start x, but then I get the latency issues as described originally.

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2012-07-29
It looks fine... Have you tried to enable/disable Sync to VBLANK in Compiz ? Of course that is if you are using Unity.

---

### Post by joek1010 on 2012-07-30
I'm using awesome, without a compositor like xcompmgr.

---

