---
title: "12.10 driver problem"
date: 2012-11-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mattmers on 2012-11-08
So heres my story. I have installed ubuntu 11.10, mint os, Pinguy and always have driver problems. It usually takes me a day to get it sorted out but 12.10 has been a super pain. First I installed it and it ran fine but when I check the gpu it says "graphics: unknown" dont remember having that problems with other linux distros. So i ended up spending my day trying different terminal stuff, no luck. Went to bed and started it up and no unity. so I found way to get it to show up temporarily:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/202890/ati-no-launcher-or-top-bar-in-12-10](http://askubuntu.com/questions/202890/ati-no-launcher-or-top-bar-in-12-10)
so I then continued my googling trying to get the drivers installed with no luck.

My laptop:
[http://www.notebookcheck.net/Toshiba-Satellite-L645D-S4030.35645.0.html](http://www.notebookcheck.net/Toshiba-Satellite-L645D-S4030.35645.0.html)

GPU: ATI Radeon HD 4250

So can someone please help me, thank you so much in advance.

---

### Post by mattmers on 2012-11-09
meant to delete this message but cant figure out how :/

---

### Post by mattmers on 2012-11-09
> **amyjohn said:**
> The newly released Ubuntu 12.10 have several issue with the proprietary graphics drivers. The main issue is, if we install the proprietary drivers, after reboot, we’ll only see the wallpaper. The Unity will crash. The problem points to the Xserver. Some say that the new Xserver version  is not supported by ATI. The open-source drivers work but they have  several heating issues and system slowdowns. So, we really need to get  the drivers fixed. I am waiting for the new development to overcome this problem.
If some one have the same problem and have some solution then must share.



Think I should Install 12.04 then?

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-11-09
AMD/ATI decided to no longer support ATI HD 2000 through 4000, so your card isn't supported by the default fglrx drivers in the repositories.

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/203232/radeon-hd-2000-3000-4000-on-12-10-quantal-fglrx-legacy-12-6-unsupported-wh](http://askubuntu.com/questions/203232/radeon-hd-2000-3000-4000-on-12-10-quantal-fglrx-legacy-12-6-unsupported-wh)

There is a legacy driver available, but it doesn't support the new Xorg server in 12.10.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-11-09
> **mattmers said:**
> think I should Install 12.04 then?

This is one of the options available to you. Advantage is, that 12.04 has a working fglrx/Xorg combination and still supports your card. Since 12.04 is LTS, you can stay with it for a long time.

---

### Post by mattmers on 2012-11-09
> **2F4U said:**
> This is one of the options available to you. Advantage is, that 12.04 has a working fglrx/Xorg combination and still supports your card. Since 12.04 is LTS, you can stay with it for a long time.

So I ended up just installing 12.04 and it much smoother but when i try installing the proprietary drivers I get the "sorry, installation of this driver failed. Please have a look at log file details: /var/log/jockey.log" and of course I don't remember how to fix it. any help?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-11-09
You can ignore this:

> when I check the gpu it says "graphics: unknown"

It is a bug that has been around since the early days of 12.04 development.

sometimes when I use the Nouveau driver it actually has my video card details there. But I am using Nouveau now and it still says 'graphics unknown' and 'experience standard.' I do not worry about any more.

Regards.

---

