---
title: "MacBook Pro w/ External Monitor on NVIDIA &amp; Missing Resolutions"
date: 2012-02-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by noahfields on 2012-02-01
There are lots of threads and websites on NVIDIA settings for dual monitor set-ups. I don't understand much of it, but I will post on my solution to my own particular issue, which might help others in the future.

My setup:
Late 2007/Earlier 2008 MacBook Pro "Aluminum"
Ubuntu 11.10
Samsung SyncMaster TA550
Running gnome-shell

(1) One thing I learned is always backup your xorg.conf file, which I presume is read by some NVIDIA driver. Backup before you do anything else. It's all magic to me. To back up you xorg.conf, type in Terminal:
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_supersecretbackup

I added the supersecret just in case you use some GUI program that accidentally backs up over your backup. Better to be safe with backup names, is my hunch.

(2) I'm running gnome-shell, but at certain points I broke my xorg.conf file, but not THAT badly. Like.. I couldn't open any programs in gnome-shell, but both displays showed the desktop background. In this case I just logged out cith CTRL-ALT-DELETE and was able to log into Unity 2D and open the terminal to recopy the xorg.conf_supersecretbackup to xorg.conf. Then log out and back in again.

(3) First common problem. You open the nvidia-settings GUI panel and pick some settings, but you can't save to the xorg.conf file. A very easy way around this is to open the nvidia-settings in Terminal with "gksu nvidia-settings". Hooray. I don't understand that command really, and it seems to load a different type of window from gnome-shell. Whatever. Linux is a labyrinth. ANOTHER solution, if you don't like the gksu command, or some analogue, is to "Preview" the xorg.conf file that the nvidia-settings GUI could not save to the real xorg.conf, and then sudo gedit xorg.conf and paste in the nvidia-settings xorg.conf file. Save.

(4) My major hangup was that in the nvidia-settings GUI I couldn't select the max res for the Samsung TA550, which is 1920x1080. After having searched forever on the web, just went back to the nvidia-settings program, generated the xorg.conf file, and looked it over. This is what I got:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 280.13  (buildd@rothera)  Fri Aug  5 12:28:41 UTC 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Apple Color LCD"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600M GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT: [COLOR=Red]1920x1080[/COLOR] +1440+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


The display resolution number in [COLOR=Red]RED[/COLOR] is my max resolution. Before I changed it, there was some other number there that I had selected from the nvidia-settings GUI. I just changed it, saved the xorg.conf (you'll have to sudo gedit), and logged out and in. Now my external monitor is at the right resolution. Stupidly simple, but if you don't speak XORG, it's hard to write you own file from scratch.

If anybody knows more about this, or a way to get nvidia-settings to just show you all the resolutions you can use... please do tell.

Hope this helps someone.

---

