---
title: "10.04 hangs on start-up, with seemingly unreadble drive"
date: 2010-07-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by garbetjie on 2010-07-04
Aaaargh!

I've been searching absolutely everywhere online for a solution to this issue that reared its ugly head this afternoon.

I'm running Ubuntu 10.04 on an HP Compaq laptop, and have been doing so successfully for a while now. I was using my laptop this morning just fine, and needed to restart.

However, upon restart, it appears as if there is something corrupt with the Ubuntu installation. However, no settings were changed just before the restart (at least, none to my knowledge).

Strangely enough, the built-in HP HDD diagnostics can't read the disk, yet the Ubuntu splash screen screen is displayed, but no more than that (the screen with the 5 dots under the logo, progressively changing colour). When I press the ESC key, I can see that nothing else happens after checking the battery state, and Apache, AppArmor and other apps can't start up, due to not being able to read the filesystem.

Yet, when I change to another terminal window (CTRL+F1/2/3), I'm able to login, and make changes on the filesystem.

so, the filesystem is definitely mounted, and is definitely mounted as read/write. This is the first time this has happened, and I have not been able to find any resources to help me with this.

Any help that someone can offer, I'd really appreciate it.

Thanks!

**Update:**
I've tried adding a hdg=nodma and ide=nodma to the boot paramters, but it didn't seem to work. This was done off the 8.10 disk, so I'm going to try the 10.04 disk, in the hope it might contain more recovery utils.

---

### Post by JayKay3000 on 2010-07-04
Dude! Awesome! I have the exact same problem. I hope someone can help us.

Only diff being it says it can't mount / or /tmp, then it.

I've posted my own post but am glad to see someone else with is problem!

---

### Post by garbetjie on 2010-07-05
Anyone else have the same issues? I would post the contents of /var/log/dmesg, but I'm not in front of my laptop at the moment. Additionally, I have no way of pasting it, as I don't have network access on my laptop when I'm in the command line.

---

