---
title: "OpenGL and Scilab"
date: 2010-02-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by evan54 on 2010-02-25
Programme: Scilab 5.2.1 or 5.1.1

Problem: when trying to use plot get the following error:

 ---------------------------------------------------
 WARNING: Due to your video card drivers limitations, that are not able to manage OpenGL, Scilab will not be able to draw any graphics. Please update your driver.
  ---------------------------------------------------

Computer model: Sony Vaio VGN-NS305D

Graphics card:                                                      Mobile Intel® Graphics Media Accelerator 4500M with Intel® Clear Video Technology.

my xorg.conf file is as follows:
  ---------------------------------------------------
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    driver        "intel"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
  ---------------------------------------------------

Also I found this on the scilab help file usecanvas

  ---------------------------------------------------
Since version 5.0, Scilab is doing an advanced use of JOGL (the Java Binding for the OpenGL), which is using the Java2D OpenGL Pipeline. For performance reasons, we use the Java2D OpenGL Pipeline. From a more technical aspect, it uses the internal buffer of the graphic cards called pbuffer.Problems may occur when the driver of the graphic card does not support properly this approach. As far as we know, there is no free driver under Linux handling this feature. In the proprietary world, the situation is as follows:

NVIDIA: Nvidia provides the appropriate proprietary drivers. Scilab's graphics work without any problem with most NVIDIA drivers.

ATI: From the driver version 8.8, most ATI graphics supports the pbuffer under Linux.

Intel: This is the big drawback of using the pbuffer. There is currently no support of pbuffer by any official Intel drivers under Linux.
  ---------------------------------------------------


Any help would be appreciated.
eVan

---

### Post by evan54 on 2010-02-26
So it now works... not sure what I did... here are a few of the things that I tried.

I noticed I had a large number of ATI and nVidia files installed which might have been 'confusing' the system somehow so I uninstalled them all.

The other things I did was typed xorg in the synaptics package manager and installed anything that said 'intel' in the description.

Finally, it doesn't seem to care if my xorg.conf file has the following line

driver "intel"

eVan

---

