---
title: "Accessing the modem on Acer Aspire 5735"
date: 2010-02-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by andrew375 on 2010-02-23
Just bought an Acer Aspire 5735 and installed 9.1 Karmic with no problem. Everything worked straight off except I cannot get SmartLink to access the modem.   I have successfully set up and run the modem on my old Dell laptop using smartlink so I do have experience with this. However,  with the Dell the modem was found and listed in the Device Manager app. but with the Acer there is no modem listed and there are an awful lot of system devices that have just a question mark against them and a description of "generic pci device".  The Acer Aspire 5735 uses the Centrino 2 processor and Mobile Intel GM45 Express Chipset.   I've set the machine up as dual boot and everything works fine with the preinstalled windoze vasta so I know the hardware is not faulty. Windoze reports that the modem is an Agere HDA modem on comm3. Ubuntu doesn't see anything on comm3. I've tried various settings in SmartLink, wvdial and the Gnome dialler app. to point to /dev/ttycomm3 and /dev/ttySL0 but it looks like the problem appears to be that the Ubuntu cannot see the modem as present.  Is the problem that the chipset is not supported by Ubuntu?

---

### Post by IcarusR on 2010-02-23
Modem chipset may not be supported under linux. Checkout this site on how to use the scanmodem script to identify modem

[http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/first.html]("http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/first.html")

Useful info

[http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/]("http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/")

---

### Post by andrew375 on 2010-02-24
Already done. Shouldn't be a problem.  Also I tried swapping the modem card over from my defunct Dell with the same result.

---

### Post by andrew375 on 2010-02-25
Reread the scanmodem report last night and things are not as I thought. Basically the sound card is being picked up as the modem. I cannot see if the actual (Agere) modem is being picked up.  Any way here is the modemdata output from scanmodem.     --------------------------  System information ---------------------------- CPU=i686,  Ubuntu ,  ALSA_version=1.0.20 Linux version 2.6.31-19-generic (buildd@palmer) (gcc version 4.4.1 (Ubuntu 4.4.1-4ubuntu8) ) #56-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jan 28 01:26:53 UTC 2010  scanModem update of:  2010_02_16 The modem symbolic link is /dev/modem -> ttySL0 Distrib_ID=Ubuntu DistribCodeName=karmic AptRepositoryStem=http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/  The dkms driver upgrade utilities are installed,   There are no blacklisted modem drivers in /etc/modprobe*  files    Potentially useful modem drivers now loaded are:        snd_hda_intel   slamr          slamrTest= Attached USB devices are:  ID 0bda:0158 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Mass Stroage Device  ID 0930:6545 Toshiba Corp. Kingston DataTraveler 2.0 Stick (4GB) / PNY Attache 4GB Stick  ID 0458:002e KYE Systems Corp. (Mouse Systems)  If a cellphone is not detected, see [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-878554.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-878554.html) A sample report is:  [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/bigarch/archive-nineth/msg00578.html](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/bigarch/archive-nineth/msg00578.html)  If a USB modem or cellphone is attached and was not detected, please provide available information in your request to [EMAIL="discuss@linmodems.org"]discuss@linmodems.org[/EMAIL]  Candidate PCI devices with modem chips are: 00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03) High Definition Audio cards can host modem chips.  For candidate card in slot 00:1b.0, firmware information and bootup diagnostics are:  PCI slot    PCI ID        SubsystemID    Name  ----------    ---------    ---------    --------------  00:1b.0    8086:293e    1025:0176    Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I    Modem interrupt assignment and sharing:   21:       1211       1187   IO-APIC-fasteoi   HDA Intel  --- Bootup diagnostics for card in PCI slot 00:1b.0 ---- [    0.233876] pci 0000:00:1b.0: reg 10 64bit mmio: [0xf8900000-0xf8903fff] [    0.236031] pci 0000:00:1b.0: PME# supported from D0 D3hot D3cold [    0.236035] pci 0000:00:1b.0: PME# disabled [   19.925557] HDA Intel 0000:00:1b.0: power state changed by ACPI to D0 [   19.925580] HDA Intel 0000:00:1b.0: PCI INT A -> GSI 21 (level, low) -> IRQ 21 [   19.925630] HDA Intel 0000:00:1b.0: setting latency timer to 64 [   20.014600] input: HDA Digital PCBeep as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1b.0/input/input7   The PCI slot 00:1b.0 of the modem card may be disabled early in   a bootup process,  but then enabled later. If modem drivers load   but the  modem is not responsive, read DOCs/Bootup.txt about possible fixes.  Send dmesg.txt along with ModemData.txt to [EMAIL="discuss@linmodems.org"]discuss@linmodems.org[/EMAIL]  if help is needed.     ===== Advanced Linux Sound Architecture (ALSA) diagnostics =====  The ALSA packages provide audio support and also drivers for some modems. ALSA diagnostics are written during bootup to /proc/asound/ folders.  The modem cards detected by &quot;aplay -l&quot;  are: None   The /proc/asound/pcm file reports: ----------------------- 00-00: ALC268 Analog : ALC268 Analog : playback 1 : capture 1 00-02: ALC268 Analog : ALC268 Analog : capture 1  about /proc/asound/cards: ------------------------  0 [Intel          ]: HDA-Intel - HDA Intel                       HDA Intel at 0xf8900000 irq 21   PCI slot 00:1b.0 has a High Definition Audio Card  The drivers are in the kernel modules tree at:  /lib/modules/2.6.31-14-generic/kernel/sound/pci/hda/snd-hda-intel.ko /lib/modules/2.6.31-19-generic/kernel/sound/pci/hda/snd-hda-intel.ko  The modem codec file for the HDA card is: /proc/asound/card0/codec#1 -------------------------------------------------------- Codec: LSI ID 1040 Address: 1 Function Id: 0x2 Vendor Id: 0x11c11040 Subsystem Id: 0x11c10001 Revision Id: 0x100200 Modem Function Group: 0x1   The audio card hosts a softmodem chip:  0x11c11040 If not a Conexant modem, the driver agrsm with its dependent drivers:  ---------- provide audio + modem support with the modem chip residing on the subsystem. Any particular card can host any one of several soft modem chips.   === Finished firmware and bootup diagnostics, next deducing cogent software. ===  Predictive  diagnostics for card in bus 00:1b.0:     Modem chipset  detected on NAME=&quot;Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I &quot; CLASS=0403 PCIDEV=8086:293e SUBSYS=1025:0176 IRQ=21 HDA2=00:1b.0 SOFT=8086:293e.HDA HDAchipVendorID=11c1 CHIP=0x11c11040 IDENT=agrsm Driver=agrsm   For candidate modem in:  00:1b.0    0403 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I        Primary device ID:  8086:293e     Subsystem PCI_id  1025:0176      Softmodem codec or chipset from diagnostics: 0x11c11040                                from    Archives:                          The HDA card softmodem chip is 0x11c11040         Support type needed or chipset:    agrsm   Writing DOCs/Intel.txt  The AgereSystems/LSI agrsm code supports compiling of a agrmodem + agrserial driver pair. There are a few different chipsets which use this driver pair, but they use different code resources: Chipsets            KV*    PackageNames (most current as of November 2009) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 11c1:048c and 11c1:048f         2.6.29    agrsm048pci-2.1.60_20100108_i386.deb or agrsm048pci-2.1.60_20100108.tar.gz 11c1:0620                       2.6.31  agrsm06pci-2.1.80_20100106_i386.deb or agrsm06pci-2.1.80~20100106.tar.gz !! 11c11040 (on HDA audio cards)   2.6.31  agrsm-11c11040_20091225_i386.deb or agrsm-11c11040-2.1.80~20091225.tar.bz2  !!    All available at: [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/ltmodem/11c11040/](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/ltmodem/11c11040/)    Additionally there are; automation & testing                    agrsm-tools_0.0.1_all.deb or agrsm-tools-0.0.1-2.noarch.rpm General background                      agrsm_howto.txt  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ * KV == latest kernel release with a reported success  !! Latest update with major credit to  Nikolay Zhuravlev    But see conflict issue: [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/bigarch/archive-nineth/msg02753.html](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/bigarch/archive-nineth/msg02753.html)  Report from  Bjorn Wielens: Please note- trying to load the modules on a OpenSuSE 11.2 system gives  an error about the module_version symbol. Using: # modprobe --force agrmodem # modprobe --force agrserial  is necessary to load the drivers, and does not appear to cause ill effects.   All of the above packages are dkms competent.  This means that if your Linux distros dkms package is previously installed, if provides for future updates matching forthcoming kernels.  -------------- end Agere Systems section -------------------   Completed candidate modem analyses.   The base of the UDEV device file system is: /dev/.udev   Versions adequately match for the compiler installed: 4.4.1              and the compiler used in kernel assembly: 4.4.1      Minimal compiling resources appear complete:    make utility - /usr/bin/make    Compiler version 4.4    linuc_headers base folder /lib/modules/2.6.31-19-generic/build   However some compilations and executable functions may need additional files,  in the FileNames.h (so called kernel &quot;h&quot;eaders) collection installed in  /usr/include/ .  For martian_modem, additional required packages are needed. The also required headers of package libc6 are commonly installed by default.   Compiling hsfmodem drivers does require linux-libc-dev and libc6-dev packages, for kernels 2.6.24 and later versions.  In not included on your install CD, search for them at [http://packages.ubuntu.com](http://packages.ubuntu.com)  or comparable Repository for other Linux distros.  When compiling ALSA drivers, the utility &quot;patch&quot; will also be needed.   Compressed files at: /usr/src/sl-modem.tar.bz2   If a driver compilation fails, with message including some lack of some FileName.h (stdio.h for example), then Some additional kernel-header files need installation to /usr/include. The minimal additional packages are libc6-dev and any of its dependents, under Ubuntu linux-libc-dev  If an alternate ethernet connection is available, $  apt-get update $  apt-get -s install linux-kernel-devel will install needed packages. For Debian/Ubuntu related distributions, run the following command to display the needed package list:  Otherwise packages have to be found through [http://packages.ubuntu.com](http://packages.ubuntu.com) Once downloaded and transferred into a Linux partition, they can be installed alltogether with: $ sudo dpkg -i *.deb   Checking pppd properties:     -rwsr-xr-- 1 root dip 277352 2009-02-20 17:25 /usr/sbin/pppd  In case of an &quot;error 17&quot; &quot;serial loopback&quot; problem, see:     [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/linmodems/archive-sixth/msg02637.html](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/linmodems/archive-sixth/msg02637.html)  To enable dialout without Root permission do:     $ su - root  (not for Ubuntu)         sudo chmod a+x /usr/sbin/pppd or under Ubuntu related Linuxes     sudo chmod a+x /usr/sbin/pppd  Checking settings of:    /etc/ppp/options asyncmap 0 noauth crtscts lock hide-password modem proxyarp lcp-echo-interval 30 lcp-echo-failure 4 noipx  In case of a message like:    Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied see [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/bigarch/archive-sixth/msg04656.html](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/bigarch/archive-sixth/msg04656.html)  For guidance on FAX usage, get from [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/)  get faxing.tar.gz It has samples for a modem using port /dev/ttySL0, which must be changed to match your modem's port.  Read Modem/DOCs/YourSystem.txt concerning other COMM channels: eth0 wlan0 wmaster0 Which can interfere with Browser naviagation.   Don't worry about the following, it is for experts should trouble shooting be necessary. ==========================================================   Checking for modem support lines:  --------------------------------------      /device/modem symbolic link:   lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 6 2010-02-24 18:57 /dev/modem -> ttySL0 slmodemd created symbolic link /dev/ttySL0:        Within /etc/udev/ files:       Within /etc/modprobe.conf files: /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf:options snd-atiixp-modem index=-2 /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf:options snd-via82xx-modem index=-2 /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-modem.conf:# Uncomment these entries in order to blacklist unwanted modem drivers /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-modem.conf:# blacklist snd-atiixp-modem /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-modem.conf:# blacklist snd-via82xx-modem      Within any ancient /etc/devfs files:       Within ancient kernel 2.4.n /etc/module.conf files:  --------- end modem support lines --------

---

### Post by coljohnhannibalsmith on 2011-05-08
Hello,

I am working on this problem myself, and the following site is a good place to start:

[http://linmodems.org/](http://linmodems.org/)




Hannibal

---

