---
title: "12.04.2 LTS on Dell E6420 - Intel Graphics Unknown"
date: 2013-08-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rLEMmFF on 2013-08-16
Could use some help on this, been beating my head against a wall for a couple months. So here's the sitch:

I began to experiment with ubuntu on my old Dell Mini over the Christmas break in 2011/12. Seemed like a nice, stable platform. Ever since I had been threatening to move over to it at work as a host OS for my Win management VMs. A couple months ago, I finally had enough with the slowness of my host Win 7 OS as it had started to do the classic Windows bloat. So I moved over and got VMware WS installed, fired up my VMs, and viola! SPEED! Was very happy for a week. Then I tried to launch Google Earth - no 3D support. Bummer. So I've been trying to find a driver ever since. Unfortunately, I've had no luck. Tried 01.org - no support for 12.04 LTS. Tried a couple PPAs from Glasenhardt's launchpad.net and thought I had it since my Win VM Device Manglers said VMware SVA 3D. Still no joy with Google Earth due to a lack of direct x and/or open gl support, and ubuntu still reports my graphics drivers are unknown. I'm pretty much a total noob on linux with very little cl experience as I have lived in a sheltered Microsoft world for the last 20 years, but I'm trying to break the cycle. Please help!

Thanks in advance for any insight that the forum may provide.

Best,
Trey

---

### Post by rLEMmFF on 2013-08-16
Found this and it did make my graphics show, but my experience is still "standard":

Install Mesa-Utils by running these commands:
  sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mesa-utils
  Then it will be detected.

---

### Post by rLEMmFF on 2013-08-16
Edited my .vmx files and added mks.gl.allowBlacklistedDrivers = "TRUE"

Got Google Earth to work in OpenGL mode, but it sounds like anything more than some light 3D work will crash your VM. I'm not gaming, so I'm happy - but holy smokes what a bunch of hoops to jump through to get some simple 3D support in Win VMs on 12.04LTS!

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-08-16
> **rLEMmFF said:**
> Edited my .vmx files and added mks.gl.allowBlacklistedDrivers = "TRUE"
but holy smokes what a bunch of hoops to jump through to get some simple 3D support in Win VMs on 12.04LTS!

Take it up with VMWare...
Please mark thread solved.

---

### Post by rLEMmFF on 2013-08-16
Ok, managed to blow up my 12.04 install while trying to clean up my mess just before the end of the day, but did a fresh install and got everything running great in under 4 hours. Here's the steps I used from a fresh install:

1) Install 12.04 x64 LTS from disc; run updates.
2) Search "mesa-utils" in the ubuntu software center; install. This makes the Sandybridge graphics driver report in system details. 
3) Search "libtxc-dxtn-s2tc0" in the ubuntu software center; install. This loads the texture compression library and opengl extensions for 3D support.
4) Load VMware WS 9; create a VMware folder in your Home folder and move VMs over.
5) Edit your vmx files, add this line and save: mks.gl.allowBlacklistedDrivers = "TRUE"
6) Fire up VMware WS and your VM; acknowledge the warning about the opengl drivers. 
7) Enjoy!

Tenacity and self-help (google) is a marvelous thing. :)

Best,
Trey

---

### Post by rLEMmFF on 2013-08-17
Just an FYI - this also worked on my Dell D620 to recognize the intel video and enable opengl support.

Best,
Trey

---

### Post by rLEMmFF on 2013-08-21
Well, I thought I had it - Google Earth was working great. But the first time I opened an IE10 browser window - blam, nothing displayed but a blank backgroud. Spent 2 days troublshooting IE thinking it was a corruption issue from when I had moved the VMs over. Went to IE9, same thing. Back to IE8 and the pages displyed normally again, then upgraded back to IE10 and had the same issue with blank pages. Then the lightbulb went on - removed mks.gl.allowBlacklistedDrivers = "TRUE" from the vmx. Next boot, no 3D support, but IE works perfectly. Finally punted and installed GE in my host Ubuntu OS annd it works perfectly. Seriously at a loss for this driver issue. Basic Intel video drivers being unstable/blacklisted on a LTS release seems pretty silly. Not sure what else to try.

---

### Post by MrSteve on 2013-08-21
open the Ubuntu software centre and in the search bar write
intel gma

it will bring a list of intel drivers up
the gma3600 intel drivers work with the onboard GPU (gma3150) ...

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-08-21
> **MrSteve said:**
> open the Ubuntu software centre and in the search bar write
intel gma
it will bring a list of intel drivers up
the gma3600 intel drivers work with the onboard GPU (gma3150) ...

1. That's definitely not going to work in vmware.
2. The cedarview/gma3600 drivers don't work wth Ubuntu 12.04.2 (needs a 3.2 kernel)
3. The gma31x0 and gma3600 GPU's are very different. Do you have a source on that claim?

---

