---
title: "Ubuntu 10.10 Acer D250 - Just a note of thanks"
date: 2010-12-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Thelgord on 2010-12-20
Hello all,   Just wanted to drop a line and say thanks to everyone here. This forum has a wealth of information and I am greatful for everyone who has taken the time to share their knowledge.   I have an Acer Aspire One D250 with an Atom N270 processor. Not the greatest netbook in the world, but with Ubuntu I have a fairly nice setup. So far I have everything working except the multi-touch. (That will be fixed when I get around to it, I am in no real hurry to get his done really.)  I got the internal mic working thanks to: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1379587](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1379587) I have to keep the "Right Channel" turned all the way down as their is only one internal mic on this netbook, but otherwise it is clear and stable.   I also have a Crystal HD Decoder card in the mini slot and the instructions that are in the driver source file worked quite well. I can now play HD video on my little guy.   I did upgrade the ram to 2gigs but other than that it is stock. Of course there isn't a whole lot to be upgraded but I am working with I have.   The only other hickup I had was with the wifi driver, but that was easy fix. Otherwise it has a been VERY pleasant experience working with 10.10. I even use an External monitor/kb/mouse when I "sorta dock" it when I am at my desk.   I currently have it dual booted with windows 7, but once I get back to the states I plan to wipe it completely and do a clean install of Ubuntu again using the entire hard drive.   Everything I have ever needed to do in windows I have managed to find a workable alternative in Linux. Heck, even my favorite writing program "Scrivener" now has a Linux version. (I have yet to actually try the Linux version).   Quite honestly I am hooked on Ubuntu. I have tried various flavors over the years, slackware, red hat, suse, etc...  I first tries Ubuntu when it was in 10.1. At the time I was in a rush to deploy overseas. Once overseas and not having a good Internet connection I managed to break my install. Almost lost the entire drive. I managed to save the windows partition and I finally gave up for a while. Over the last month or so I have managed to get at least decent internet access and have once again tried Ubuntu, this time with 10.10.   Having a good internet connection and time to play around with it, tweak it, configure it, and generally go on a bug hunt and find out how to do everything I did in windows on Linux is really a must. I am just about done I think with my "testing phase" and once I return to the states its all Ubuntu for me.   Once again this is just really a very long thank you. I know the people on this forum and others really don't get enough credit for the time they give to answer even newb questions. Ubuntu 10.10 has been the best Linux experience to date, so much so that I am sold enough to make my primary O/S. (Even if my boss think it looks to much like a mac ;) )  Thelgord --------

---

