---
title: "18.04 : Scanner for Brother MFC-5490CN doesn't work"
date: 2018-05-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2018-05-02
I am not able to use my Brother MFC-5490CN Scanner function which worked with 16.04 Ubuntu

This is what I tried:
1) Used Brother's auto-installer(12/25/2017
(2.2.0-1)) which got printer working but not scanner
2) Manually reinstalled Scanner software
3) Edited /lib/udev/rules.d/60-libsane.rules by adding ```
# Brother scanners
ATTRS{idVendor}=="04f9", ENV{libsane_matched}="yes"
```
4)copying Brother files from cp /usr/lib64/ to /usr/lib 
5) downloaded and installed dpkg -i brother-udev-rule-type1-1.0.0-1.all.deb

Not sure what else to try

EDIT: Tried [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SANE%20-%20Installing%20a%20scanner%20that%20isn%27t%20auto-detected](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SANE%20-%20Installing%20a%20scanner%20that%20isn%27t%20auto-detected) but could not find file example.conf

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2018-05-03
Bump

---

### Post by nannah23 on 2018-05-03
I did all except  #3- libsane.rules.  Make sure you run these commands below.  My case **Brsaneconfig4 ** is for my network scanner

[B]Command : Brsaneconfig4 -a name=(name your device) model=(model name) ip=xx.xx.xx.xx

and Command : [/B][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]sudo apt-get install libusb-0.1-4[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2018-05-04
libusb-0.1-4 is already it's latest installed version and printer is USB connnected

```
$ sudo apt-get install libusb-0.1-4
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
libusb-0.1-4 is already the newest version (2:0.1.12-31).
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 6 not upgraded.

```

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2018-05-05
bump

anyone?

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2018-05-06
Bumpity Bump

---

### Post by plucky on 2018-05-06
> Pre-required Procedure (8)
    Related distributions
    Debian, Ubuntu
    Related products/drivers
    brscan, brscan2, brscan3
    Requirement
    sane-utils is required to be installed. 


Have you installed sane-utils?

I think a reboot might be needed after sane-utils is installed.

Is this a fresh install of 18.04? or upgrade from 16.04

Good luck

---

### Post by him610 on 2018-05-06
Superfreak,

I just finished a successful installation of Brother (MFC7360N) print, scan, and fax drivers today on a newly installed 18.04. 
Please post the results of ```
dpkg -l | grep Brother
```

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2018-05-06
> **plucky said:**
> Have you installed sane-utils?

I think a reboot might be needed after sane-utils is installed.

Is this a fresh install of 18.04? or upgrade from 16.04

Good luck

Thanks so much. It is now working, yes a fresh install of 18.04

---

### Post by markus51 on 2018-05-19
Hi, i have a Brother mfc j480dw. With fresh installation of Ubuntu 18.04 the printer works but the scanner isn't recognised.
I read that you found a method to make it work.
I download the "Driver install tool" ver,. 2.2.0-1.
May you explain step by step what you did to make the scanner work?
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2018-05-19
Some of these directions are not directly applicable to your situation and may in fact be redundant if you have applied the installer tool that Brother provides.
For my scanner/printer I found directions here the scanner: [http://welcome.solutions.brother.com...n.html#brscan3](http://welcome.solutions.brother.com...n.html#brscan3)
Note your printer may not use brscan3 
Under the brscan3 section of that page, click on the brscan3 link (32-bit or 64-bit, depending on whichever version of Ubuntu you have instaled), and click 'Accept' to download brscan3.
Once the driver is downloading, click on brscan3-0.2.11-2.i386.deb (or brscan3-0.2.11-2.amd64.deb) and click Install Package.



Also see [http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/faq_scn.html#f00101](http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/faq_scn.html#f00101)
before restarting and follow instructions for brsc3

command(For brscan3 Users): 

```
cp /usr/lib64/libbrscandec3.so.1.0.0 /usr/lib
cp /usr/lib64/sane/libsane-brother3.so.1.0.7 /usr/lib/sane
cp /usr/lib64/sane/libsane-brother3.so.1 /usr/lib/sane
cp /usr/lib64/sane/libsane-brother3.so /usr/lib/sane
cp /usr/lib64/libbrscandec3.so /usr/lib
cp /usr/lib64/libbrscandec3.so.1 /usr/lib


```
[B]sane-utils is required to be installed. 
Have you installed sane-utils?

```
sudo apt-get install sane-utils

```[/B]

I think a reboot might be needed after sane-utils is installed.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2018-05-19
> **markus51 said:**
> Hi, i have a Brother mfc j480dw. With fresh installation of Ubuntu 18.04 the printer works but the scanner isn't recognised.
I read that you found a method to make it work.
I download the "Driver install tool" ver,. 2.2.0-1.
May you explain step by step what you did to make the scanner work?
Thanks in advance.

What kind of connection, USB or Network? If USB, can you scan as a SUDO user? 18.04 also has an installer glitch but that glitch is not supposed to affect Brscan4 machines which yours is. This page is always worth reading for linux scanner issues:

```
http://support.brother.com/g/s/id/linux/en/faq_scn.html?c=us_ot&lang=en&redirect=on  
```

Some of the questions/answers don't apply to current Ubuntu versions but it may still worth a read.

---

### Post by markus51 on 2018-05-19
The connection is USB. I can't use as a SUDO user. I have brscan4.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2018-05-19
> **markus51 said:**
> The connection is USB. I can't use as a SUDO user. I have brscan4.

Hmmm, I'm not sure where to look next. You could try this although Brscan4 isn't supposed to need it. From the Brother Linux Scanner FAQ:
[INDENT]**I cannot find the Brother Machine.** 
[/INDENT]

[LIST]
[*][INDENT][B]
Related Distribution : Ubuntu, LinuxMint, Debian[/B]
[/INDENT]
[INDENT]
[/INDENT]
 
[*][INDENT]**Related Scanner Driver : brscan, brscan2, brscan3**[/INDENT]
 
[/LIST]
[INDENT]

 Check if the following directory exist.

    **For 64bit Users:**
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/sane
&#12288; 
    **For 32bit Users:**
/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/sane


 Type the following command if the above directory exist.

    **For 64bit Users:**
    **Command : sudo cp  /usr/lib64/sane/libsane-brother*   /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/sane**

     **For 32bit Users:**
    [B]Command : sudo cp  /usr/lib/sane/libsane-brother*     /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/sane

[/B][/INDENT]
Brother does offer email support for linux though not phone support. You initiate a support request via a form on their web site. It may take a few days to get a reply, at least that was my experience.
[INDENT] 
  
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by kenj69 on 2018-06-05
Deleted by poster

---

### Post by mtnguy on 2018-11-15
> **markus51 said:**
> Hi, i have a Brother mfc j480dw. With fresh installation of Ubuntu 18.04 the printer works but the scanner isn't recognised.
I read that you found a method to make it work.
I download the "Driver install tool" ver,. 2.2.0-1.
May you explain step by step what you did to make the scanner work?
Thanks in advance.

If you've exhausted every suggestion so far on this thread, like I did, and you're still having the same issue, try:

sudo simple-scan

Does the scanner get recognized now?  If so, run:

lsusb

Example:  Bus 002 Device 004: ID 04f9:0270 Brother Industries, Ltd  (substituting the Bus and Device #s for your scanner here):

sudo chmod a+w /dev/bus/usb/002/004 

It changes permissions for that scanner on that USB port, so make sure you're okay with that, and have tried everything else first.  Mine finally worked.

---

### Post by DAB4970 on 2018-11-22
I was using 16.04 when I installed the software for my MFC-J615W.  With OS updated to 18.04, software correctly installed, the files copied from one folder to another, my scanner still wasn't found until I installed libsane-extras (extra-backends).

Hope this helps.

God Bless.

---

### Post by rwigle on 2018-11-22
I tried EVERYTHING in this thread and the Brother FAQ. Nothing worked.

THEN I added the following line to the end of /etc/sane/dll.conf:

brother4

And scanner is now found.

YOU MAY FIND THE KEY LINE AT THE END OF: /etc/sane.d/dll.conf.dpkg-old

Good luck.. Your results may differ.

P.S. I have attached the full drill I went through (unsuccessfully).

---

### Post by rwigle on 2018-11-22
P.S. That was a Brother DCP7065DN

---

### Post by Merrattic on 2018-11-24
@rwigle

Thank you, that last step was the missing part of the puzzle for my Brother DCP540CN scanner setup

I used "brother2" in /etc/sane.d/dll.conf

after doing all the driver installs, configuration and file copying

n.b. My DCP540CN still going strong after 12 years  :)

---

### Post by Merrattic on 2018-12-16
FWIW

I recently completed a fresh install of 18.04 LTS (Xubuntu) and set up my DCP-540CN printer and scanner (network)
I used the driver install script provided by Brother
Changes I had to make:

For the Printer:
I selected option 13 (Auto), which returned something like lpd://DCP-540CN Printer/BINARY_pl - this didn't work
In Printer properties i changed it to match my other machine: lpd/192.168.1.5/binary_pl and it worked immediately
(192,168.1.5 is the IP of the Printer/Scanner

For the scanner:
brother2 was already in the list in /etc/sane.d/dll.conf
but needed to run
sudo cp /usr/lib64/sane/libsane-brother* /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/sane (I had a 64 bit machine)
and Simple Scan sprang into life

---

### Post by eop on 2019-03-13
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Hi i have Brother MFC-7440N printer that I have connected to a NUC by usb.  The NUC's os is linux 4.15.0-46 generic with Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS.  I got the printer to work after struggling with cupps. But the scanner was not working.  Being new to linux i started exploring on the web and came across this thread.  It gave me the hint about copying libsane-brother* files from /usr/lib64/sane to /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnc/sane[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Thank you for the advice I did it and the scanner is now working[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by DAB4970 on 2019-03-25
Hello.  I have a MFC-J615W (wireless) on an upgraded 18.04 from 16.04.  I read a bug report and many comments talk about permissions.  Maybe I should wipe my drive and do a fresh install of 18.04 and see if scanning works then, after of course the software is installed.  I'm getting frustrated with the scanning issue that keeps reappearing.

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2019-03-25
You could try installing the 64 bit driver (see [https://support.brother.com/g/b/downloadlist.aspx?c=us&lang=en&prod=mfcj615w_all&os=128](https://support.brother.com/g/b/downloadlist.aspx?c=us&lang=en&prod=mfcj615w_all&os=128))
and then set up the scanner for wireless
```
sudo brsaneconfig4 -a name=MFC-J615W model=MFC-J615W ip=192.168.xx.xx
```

Assuming brsaneconfig4 is correct it could be 2 or 3 check the downloaded driver.where you complete the ip address with the ip of your printer(my printer gives that address on the printers lcd menu screen).

---

### Post by DAB4970 on 2019-05-06
It is brsaneconfig3 and I've done all the things that needed to be done in the installation process.

---

### Post by eop on 2019-05-19
I has a similar problem getting my MFC7440N to scan.  Trying to find my notes from a chat with Brothers but they were fast in responding to my questions.  The fix was easy it entailed adding a line to tell scane to look at a lib.  Suggest you chat with Brother help desk will continue to look for my notes but it will probably be faster to ask Brothers

---

### Post by cboling on 2019-10-29
In my case, I installed brscan4 for a networked DCP-L2540DW on a pretty clean install of Kubuntu 18.04. (The printer had been working fine on my other system, Ubuntu 18.04 upgraded from 16.04 and 14.04).

The symptom I saw was: After adding it, brsaneconfig4 could ping it okay, but SANE (e.g. "scanimage -L" ) couldn't find the device.

I installed libusb-0.1 from the Ubuntu repos, and the problem was instantly fixed, no reboot needed.
Even though (1.) it's network, not USB, (2.) Brother removed the hard dependency in the .deb pkg, and (3.) libusb-1.0 is already installed, that specific library is needed.

---

### Post by Merrattic on 2020-01-31
Further to my post above:  [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2390815&p=13823902&viewfull=1#post13823902](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2390815&p=13823902&viewfull=1#post13823902)

a few updates down the line saw the dll.conf overwritten, removing the brother2 entry, causing the Simple Scan / XSane to fail to find.

I added brother2 again, reran the copy command, and all was well again.

Until the next time ;)

---

### Post by Merrattic on 2020-10-19
Back again.....

Fresh install of Xubuntu 20.04.1

Setup of Brother DCP540CN Printer & Scanner

**Printer** fairly straight forward, following the instructions on the Brother site:

> Login as a superuser ( or use "sudo" option if it is required )
 
Check if pre-required procedures are completed
For Debian/Ubuntu 64 bit
For Ubuntu8.04 or greater
 
Download drivers
Download LPR driver and cupswrapper driver.
 
Install LPR driver and cupswrapper driver
Turn on the printer and connect the USB cable.
Open the terminal and go to the directory where the drivers are.
Install LPR driver.The install process may take some time. Please wait until it is complete.
Command (for dpkg)  :  dpkg  -i  --force-all  (lpr-drivername)
 
Install cupswrapper driver.The install process may take some time. Please wait until it is complete.
Command (for dpkg)  :  dpkg  -i  --force-all  (cupswrapper-drivername)
 
Check if the LPR driver and cupswrapper driver are installed
Command (for dpkg)  :  dpkg  -l  |  grep  Brother
 
Depending on the connection type you are using (USB or Network), follow one of the steps below.


(for USB Connection)
Open a web browser and go to "http://localhost:631/printers".
Check if the Device URI of your printer is "usb://Brother/(your printer's model name)"


If the device URI is different from the example above, please go to "Modify Printer" of your printer to select proper device and driver.
If your printer is not listed on "http://localhost:631/printers", please go to "http://localhost:631/admin" and click "Add printer" and select proper device and driver.
 


(for Network Connection)
 


Open a web browser and go to "http://localhost:631/printers".
Click "Modify Printer" and set following parameters.
- "LPD/LPR Host or Printer" or "AppSocket/HP JetDirect"	    	for Device
- lpd://(Your printer's IP address)/binary_p1	    	for Device URI
- Brother	    	for Make/Manufacturer Selection
- Your printer's name	    	for Model/Driver Selection
MODIFY PRINTER
Try a test print





[B]Scanner
[/B]
Almost the same as before:

> Download the driver.
 
Login as a superuser (or use "sudo" option if required) .
 
Check if pre-required procedures are completed 
For Debian, Ubuntu
 
Install the driver.
Turn on your MFC/DCP and connect the USB cable.
Open the terminal and go to the directory where the driver is.
Install the scanner driver.
Command (for dpkg) : dpkg -i --force-all  (scanner-drivername)
Check if the driver is installed.
Command (for dpkg) : dpkg -l | grep Brother
 


For USB Users:
Use your scanning application by a superuser and try a test scan.
Use your usb-connected scanner by a user without administrator privileges.


For Network Users:
***Use brsaneconfig (for brscan models), brsaneconfig2 (for brscan2 models), brsaneconfig3 (for brscan3 models), brsaneconfig4 (for brscan4 models) or brsaneconfig5 (for brscan5 models) accordingly.


Add network scanner entry
Command : brsaneconfig4 -a name=(name your device) model=(model name) ip=xx.xx.xx.xx


Confirm network scanner entry
Command : brsaneconfig4 -q | grep (name of your device)


Open a scanner application and try a test scan.


AND:

sudo cp /usr/lib64/sane/libsane-brother* /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/sane

AND:

sudo cp /usr/lib64/libbr* /usr/lib

AND:

Check /etc/sane.d/dll.conf contains brother2

AND:

Install a few libs:

libinsane1:amd64 <none> 1.0.3-1
gir1.2-libinsane-1.0:amd64 <none> 1.0.3-1
libinsane-dev:amd64 <none> 1.0.3-1
libsane-dev:amd64 <none> 1.0.29-0ubuntu5.2
libusb-0.1-4:amd64 <none> 2:0.1.12-32
libusb-1.0-0-dev:amd64 <none> 2:1.0.23-2build1
libusb-1.0-doc:all <none> 2:1.0.23-2build1
libusb-dev:amd64 <none> 2:0.1.12-32


Now test with Simple Scan  (Document Scanner)


The old thing still going after 15 years ;)

---

