---
title: "8.10 // Network Manager 0.7 + Bluetooth Phone as GPRS Modem."
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by timmy-mac on 2008-11-01
Hi all,

Hope this is in the right section of the forum.  

This question isn't a general "I can't get my phone to work as a gprs modem" thread, but one specifically relating to the new features in NM 0.7.

I have bluetooth (and in fact ppp, through wvdial) working fine. And have been using this phone for my interwebs for ages.

However, I can't figure out how to get the new Network-Manager to handle the connection.  I want it to appear in the list with 'Wired Network' and 'Wireless Networks'.  I've tried *Right Click*>'Edit Connections...' and adding one under 'Mobile Broadband', but still don't see anything.

I think my modem (which is on /dev/rfcomm0) needs to be recognised by hal as a gprs modem and it's not being.  Does anyone know anything about this?

I'm afraid I do not!

Many thanks,

Tim

---

### Post by timmy-mac on 2008-11-01
...and to follow up my own post, it looks like I have my 'answer' :-(

Although it's touted as an Intrepid feature - 
> 
**3G Support**
For constant connectivity public WiFi has limitations. Improvements to the network manager in Ubuntu 8.10 makes it simple to detect and connect to 3G networks and manage connectivity. This connectivity is delivered through an inbuilt 3G modem, through 'dongle' support, through a mobile phone or through Bluetooth. It is a complex environment that Ubuntu 8.10 simplifies through a single interface and the auto-detection of many of the most popular devices.


...it looks as though Bluetooth is not yet supported becuase the the devices are not registered by hal.

source: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/network-manager/+bug/269329](https://bugs.launchpad.net/network-manager/+bug/269329)

---

