---
title: "14.04: How can I change video drivers from the terminal with no Internet connection?"
date: 2015-08-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by apatters on 2015-08-15
Ubuntu 14.04, kernel 0.61

I recently attempted to switch from an older nvidia driver to 346 using Additional Drivers because I was having problems launching Wine. This resulted in my system booting to a black screen. I could hear the Ubuntu startup sound but the system was unresponsive.

I ultimately had to reinstall because even though I was able to get to a terminal, the only way I knew of to roll back to a different driver was **sudo apt-get uninstall nvidia-346**. This command failed because I didn't have an Internet connection to download replacement packages (the wifi at my condo requires signon via a browser that supports Javascript, not really possible when all I have is a terminal).

So, on my fresh install I'm afraid to switch to any version of the nvidia driver for fear that they will brick my system on the next restart and I'll have to wipe again. My question is: **How can I switch back to nouveau from the terminal when I don't have an Internet connection?** 

I know there used to be the jockey command but it seems to have been removed in 14.04. I know there is the ubuntu-drivers command but it doesn't actually change the drivers unless you use the autoinstall command and I don't know what's going to install? The help just says it will install something "appropriate."

Once this is solved I can work on the other five stupid graphics-related problems that have been introduced by **routine updates recommended by Ubuntu over the past month that caused my system to gradually fall apart,** but I'll try to be civilized and leave that rant for another post...

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-08-15
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/974/how-can-i-install-software-or-packages-without-internet-offline](http://askubuntu.com/questions/974/how-can-i-install-software-or-packages-without-internet-offline)

you can install  apt-offline package (but need internet to do it)

---

### Post by apatters on 2015-08-15
Thanks for the fast reply. I installed apt-offline and read the man page. It doesn't have a **remove** command. The operation which failed before was **apt-get remove **because it wouldn't let me remove without autoinstalling another driver at the same time.

If I use apt-offline to install, let's say, nouveau, will I then be able to use apt-get remove (while offline, from the terminal) to remove nvidia-346?

---

### Post by astralnysledz on 2015-08-16
Linux operating systems which heavily rely on the desktop environment offer the nouveau driver out-of-the-box. Installing the proprietary Nvidia drivers does not remove nouveau, but rather blacklists it to prevent collisions. Hence, you can try unloading the nvidia driver and re-loading nouveau
```
modprobe -r nvidia
modprobe nouveau
```

and then testing whether the interface can be restored
```
xinit
``` or ```
startx
```

This would constitute a temporary solution to test whether the interface can be brought back up. To maintain this between system reboots you would need to prevent nouveau from being blacklisted and blacklist the nvidia module.

Finally, if for some reason the nvidia module does not support your graphics card properly, we might be able to look for a solution from that perspective.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2015-08-16
i saw something recently that may be of use
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Linux-GPU-Driver-Swap](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Linux-GPU-Driver-Swap)

---

