---
title: "11.10 - laptop lid closed = do nothing DOES NOT WORK"
date: 2012-04-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by blackdalek on 2012-04-01
in Ubuntu 11.10
system setting -> power -> laptop lid closed = "do nothing"
does not work.

This is what ACTUALLY happens for each available setting -

suspend = suspends the laptop

hibernate = hibernates the laptop

do nothing = blanks the laptop screen (PLUS every external monitor or analog display is also blanked)

How do I fix it so that "do nothing" is NOT "blank screen"?

Hardware is an old Toshiba Satellite M30 with Nvidia GeForce FX Go5200

---

### Post by blackdalek on 2012-04-01
Additional information -

Setting options with gnome-tweak-tool, dconf-editor or gconf-editor has NO effect on this issue.

---

### Post by Bill Z on 2012-04-02
What setting in your BIOS have you enabled or disabled about lid up or down?

---

### Post by blackdalek on 2012-04-03
The BIOS for this laptop model has no settings at all for power management. I already checked before posting my thread.

---

### Post by blackdalek on 2012-04-03
More info:

This issue did not occur in Ubuntu 10.10
I did not have Ubuntu 11.04 installed on this laptop, so I do not know if the issue was present then.

---

### Post by blueshead on 2012-04-03
This also happens to me when I shut my laptop.. How so ever All I have to do is hit a key on my keyboard and then my monitor comes back on..

---

### Post by blackdalek on 2012-04-03
> **blueshead said:**
> This also happens to me when I shut my laptop.. How so ever All I have to do is hit a key on my keyboard and then my monitor comes back on..

I can confirm this,
Thanks for the tip.

---

