---
title: "Display on Ubuntu (1280x1024)"
date: 2009-04-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by eatayeh on 2009-04-17
Hello,

I've been using ubuntu for some time now and couldn't get it to display the resolution 1280x1024...

I tried adjusting the modes in the xorg but with no avail...

I have a Toshiba M700

------------------
lspci | grep VGA

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

------------------

My Xorg.conf file is the below:

----------------------------

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "touch"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier      "stylus"
	Driver          "wacom"
	Option          "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"
	Option          "Type"          "stylus"
	Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"
	Option          "Mode"          "absolute"
	Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
	Option          "Button2"       "3"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier      "eraser"
	Driver          "wacom"
	Option          "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"
	Option          "Type"          "eraser"
	Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"
	Option          "Mode"          "absolute"
	Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
	Option          "Button1"       "2"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier      "touch"
	Driver          "wacom"
	Option          "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"
	Option          "Type"          "touch"
	Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"
	Option          "Mode"          "absolute"
	Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Videocard0"
	Driver      "intel"
	Option	    "RandRRotation" "on"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "Videocard0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport  0 0
		Depth     24
                Modes     "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
--------------------------

I appreciate any help!

---

### Post by scgroup on 2009-04-17
The M700 LCD panel is 1280x800 and most likely will not accept a 1280x1024 signal.  If it did, the picture would be badly squashed.

If you meant to say 1280x800, recheck your xorg.conf.

If you are using an external 1280x1024 monitor, check that your VGA cable has the pins to carry the EDID signal.  If that's not the trouble, try adding a Monitor section with suitable modeline.  If no luck, post monitor type, whether recognized by system, how connected, Ubuntu version.

---

### Post by eatayeh on 2009-04-25
Hello, thanks a lot for your reply...

You are right, even after i upgraded to 9.04 my resolution stayed the same...As for the external monitor the resolution problem was solved after the upgrade!!


Thanks!

---

