---
title: "1101HA General problems and possible solutions"
date: 2009-10-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by thebloggu on 2009-10-15
I own a 1101HA Asus EeePC and I like it very much except to the fact that it has several compabilities problems with linux. I am currently running CrunchBang 9.04 (which is based on Ubuntu Jaunty) and I have managed to surpass some difficulties. So I decided to make this post to help other people solve their problems and to get some solution for myself.

Right now I managed to get wireless, video card driver and synaptics (with no multitouch). Ethernet is supposed to work too based on [this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8033270) but I haven't tested it yet.

**Ethernet**

Download AR81Family-linux-v1.0.0.10.tar.gz from [http://partner.atheros.com/Drivers.aspx](http://partner.atheros.com/Drivers.aspx)

```
tar -xzvf AR81Family-linux-v1.0.0.10.tar.gz
cd src
make
sudo make install
sudo insmod atl1e.ko
```
**Wireless**

```
sudo aptitude install linux-backports-modules-jaunty
```
**Graphics**

As I did not need Compiz I just needed these steps (if you wish to use Compiz follow the extra steps [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8033270)):

Add this PPA to your /etc/apt/sources.list

```
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile/ppa/ubuntu jaunty main
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mobile/ppa/ubuntu jaunty main
```
Add the GPG key to the keyring:

```
sudo apt-key adv --recv-keys --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com C6598A30
```
Install these:

```
sudo aptitude install psb-kernel-headers psb-firmware psb-kernel-source poulsbo-driver-3d xpsb-glx psb-modules poulsbo-driver-2d xserver-xorg-video-psb
```
Reboot

        **Warning:** It seems these drivers generate lockups and freezes at least for me and [this user](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291302) at ubuntuforums. It happens using 2.6.28-13-generic and 2.6.28-15-generic linux kernel and respective backported drivers.

        *Update:* It seems there may be a solution [here](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-psb/+bug/393290). Apparently, the problem is on the 3d psb package.

**Synaptics**

Should work ok, except the multitouch. I pretend to add the steps needed to use it here in the future.

**Fn keys (Hotkeys)**

Seems the most difficult to get to work. I haven't found a solution yet since [eee-control](http://greg.geekmind.org/eee-control/), [eee-applet](http://sourceforge.net/projects/eee-applet/), [eeeasy scripts](http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=65606) and acpi-support are not compatible with 1101HA and eeepc-acpi-scripts is broken in jaunty.

**Other**

There are many things still missing but I think I addressed the most important ones. I will try to update this with new solutions. Please, if you have one, write a post about it.

*Updated (16/10/2009):* Graphics (possible solution to freeze problem)

---

### Post by miro.mannino on 2009-10-16
and what is the solution?... i can't resolve the problems

---

### Post by thebloggu on 2009-10-16
Solution to what problem?

---

### Post by miro.mannino on 2009-10-17
thanks,

for me i opened the /etc/X11/xorg.conf and i added those lines into Device section

Option        "AccelMethod"    "EXA"
Option        "DRI"    "off"
Option        "MigrationHeuristic"    "greedy"

now this is my xorg.conf

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Option        "AccelMethod"    "EXA"
    Option        "DRI"    "off"
    Option        "MigrationHeuristic"    "greedy"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

but now i can't turn on the 3d effect...

---

### Post by thebloggu on 2009-10-17
Sorry, I didn't understood your problem earlier. I think it is not possible to have 3d activated and have your problem solved. But if it is I think you have to tweak your xorg.conf somehow.

Thank you for your reply.

---

### Post by miro.mannino on 2009-10-17
Yes i know... the important thing is that now it works better...
Remain the problem of shut down, i just have to wait a minute before it completely shut down. It show a blank cursor on screen and remains blocked for about a minute.

---

### Post by miro.mannino on 2009-10-19
I have good news

I try to configure xorg.conf in this way and i have good results.[FONT=monospace][FONT=Verdana]
[/FONT][/FONT][FONT=monospace][FONT=Verdana]
[/FONT][/FONT]Section "Device"
   Identifier      "GMA500"
   Option "AccelMethod" "EXA"
   Option "DRI" "on"
   Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
   Option "IgnoreACPI" "yes"
   Driver "psb"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
       Mode    0666
EndSection[FONT=monospace]
[/FONT]
[FONT=monospace][FONT=Verdana] [/FONT]But if i enable 3d effects it is instable like before
[/FONT]

---

### Post by thebloggu on 2009-10-23
Well I ended up installing Fedora 11 and it seems it was the only distro to support this model properly. I already tried Arch Linux, Ubuntu Netbook Remix 9.04, CrunchBang 9.04 and Debian. Fedora installation is smoothly and it detects wireless and wired network cards out-of-the-box (kernel is 2.6.30 whereas Ubuntu 9.04 uses 2.6.28) and the graphic drivers are a repository away. Some Fn hotkeys work out-of-the-box too, but brightness is still a problem. By now I am using Gnome Brightness Applet to solve the problem. It is very sad that the support for this netbook on linux is so poor (focusing on the GMA 500) even though I understand it's not linux kernel nor Ubuntu developers problem. I think the problem is on Intel for not providing proper drivers. Maybe someday they realize they should not disrespect their customers and that we have the right to choose what OS we want to run their products in.

---

