---
title: "4K and 21:9. Is it possible?"
date: 2016-06-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by milagre23 on 2016-06-26
Hi,

I have been using OSX since 2008 for video editing and some music production (but always using Linux in my laptops). Now I have decided, since my iMac is dieing, to try a FOOS approach, and so, I'm in the process of setting up a PC and install Ubuntu Studio (witch I have used in the past) and work with open source software (I'm particularly interested in Blender). At the moment, my biggest concern is screen compatibility issues. I have searched quite a bit in the Internet, and in this forum, and is really difficult to know if some resolutions are or nor possible to setup in Linux, in Ubuntu family, specially in Ubuntu Studio, since most part of the time the information is not clear and sometimes is contradictory. 
I'm referring to 21:9 (2560X1080) or 4K (3840X2160).

So my questions are: 

Is it possible? Does anyone have tried with success? And how?

Many thanks in advance and best regards from Portugal.
J

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2016-06-26
Thread Closed. Duplicate of [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2328910](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2328910) . 

Please do not start duplicate threads - this dilutes community support. If you wish a thread to be moved to another sub-forum, please report it and staff will be more than happy to do this. Or you can bump the thread after about 12 hours if you don't receive a reply and want to bring it to the attention of those in different time zones.

---

