---
title: "9.04 Bluetooth not working although device is detected and running"
date: 2009-07-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mcslave on 2009-07-18
The Bluetooth icon never appears even though my dongle is detected and running. I've tried changing the icon to constantly being present whether the dongle is there or not in the Bluetooth settings and it still doesn't appear.

```
$ lsusb | grep tooth
Bus 006 Device 004: ID 0a12:0001 Cambridge Silicon Radio, Ltd Bluetooth Dongle (HCI mode)
```

```
$ /etc/init.d/bluetooth start
 * Starting bluetooth                                                    [ OK ]
```

---

### Post by mcslave on 2009-07-18
bump?

---

### Post by mcslave on 2009-07-20
Ok, I have the screen up now, but it doesn't detect my phone and show it on the screen even though I've made it discoverable. My bluetooth dongle is detected and running. There's got to be some reason this isn't working!

---

### Post by mcslave on 2009-07-20
With hciscan it detects the phone....

> j@j-laptop:~$ sudo hciconfig hci0 up
[sudo] password for j: 
j@j-laptop:~$ sudo hciconfig -a
hci0:    Type: USB
    BD Address: 00:11:B1:07:A3:CA ACL MTU: 192:8 SCO MTU: 64:8
    UP RUNNING 
    RX bytes:342 acl:0 sco:0 events:10 errors:0
    TX bytes:35 acl:0 sco:0 commands:10 errors:0
    Features: 0xff 0xff 0x8f 0xf8 0x18 0x18 0x00 0x80
    Packet type: DM1 DM3 DM5 DH1 DH3 DH5 HV1 HV2 HV3 
    Link policy: 
    Link mode: SLAVE ACCEPT 
    Name: 'CSR - bc3'
    Class: 0x000000
    Service Classes: Unspecified
    Device Class: Miscellaneous, 
    HCI Ver: 1.2 (0x2) HCI Rev: 0x512 LMP Ver: 1.2 (0x2) LMP Subver: 0x512
    Manufacturer: Cambridge Silicon Radio (10)

j@j-laptop:~$ sudo hcitool scan
Scanning ...
    00:26:36:D4:E4:82    Motorola Phone

---

### Post by mcslave on 2009-07-20
Ok, when I scan channels using BlueProximity, my phone asks for a pin and asks permission to connect so we're getting somewhere.... and it works! I'm now paired up. Why doesn't the default application work though? And why doesn't any other application like Multisync work either? It only works when I can enter in the MAC address of the phone.

---

