---
title: "[information included] installing nVidia 9600 GT in Ubuntu 8.10"
date: 2009-03-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pjmppans on 2009-03-08
I have got a problem and I've search for solution for a whole day. It is about installing my ASUS EN9600GT (nVidia 9600 GT) driver. I am using Ubuntu 8.10. I have done all means I could find to install this thing but the problem still persist. Here's what I have done

> **Install the driver via System > Administration > Hardware Drivers** 
  There are 2 versions of the driver available, 177 and 173. Both are not working.

**Install the driver via EnvyNG**
  I can't find and run the GUI one so I run the textual mode. EnvyNG recommends driver version 173.14.12-1 for me but it does not seem to work.

**Install the driver using .run files from nVidia website.**
  I have tried many versions of the driver 171.06, 173.04, 173.14, 180.29 and even the latest one that does not show in the webpage but in the ftp, 180.37. As always, none of them worked for me.

Those things really drove me crazy since I am new to Linux. I noticed that the symptom is the same no matter how I install it. When I boot with my new driver it says

> (EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA kernel module! Please ensure
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     that there is a supported NVIDIA GPU in this system, and
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     that the NVIDIA device files have been created properly. 
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     Please consult the NVIDIA README for details.
(EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

then there are options on how will I handle this problem like 

> Run in Low Graphics Mode
Reconfigure the setting
  Backup  or
  Use default setting (xorg.conf) file  or
  Generate new setting for my hardware
Troubleshoot the problem 
  Edit the setting file
  View log file

I can't remember all the options but none of them worked.

Here is my xorg.conf file

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Thu Feb  5 00:18:17 PST 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation G94 [GeForce 9600 GT]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation G94 [GeForce 9600 GT]"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


This is the problem one the cause Low Graphics Mode (extremely low resolution). To use fit resolution for my screen, I have to select "Use default setting (xorg.conf) file" option so it will use this xorg.conf

> Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

which worked but the suitable driver is not installed.


These are my first problem that I can't end up searching on the internet. Hope you can get me out.

Thanks a lot in advance.

PanJ

---

### Post by pjmppans on 2009-03-08
I really need help. Please help me out!!

---

### Post by fut21 on 2009-03-08
> **pjmppans said:**
> I really need help. Please help me out!!

Try this repo for 180.29:
[https://launchpad.net/~anders-kaseorg/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~anders-kaseorg/+archive/ppa)

---

### Post by pjmppans on 2009-03-09
my problem solved! thanks a lot!

---

