---
title: "9.10 and no sound at all"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by carterw65 on 2009-11-06
Hi all,

Just upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and now I have no sound at all. I have a dell inspiron 1200 laptop. Can someone point me in the right direction to solve this?

Thanks a million!

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-11-06
There have been quite a few updates released in the last week since the final version of Karmic was released.  I had some intermittant sound issues when I first updated; sometimes the sound module would load, other times it wouldn't!  So in the first instance, have you tried updating your system? 

If you do that and it still doesn't work, then I'd point you in the direction of this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449)

On the basis of that thread, I'd suggest doing the following...

First check to make sure Ubuntu can still detect your sound card:  

```
lspci[/i]  

You should see your graphics card listed.  If you do, then it might mean that the module hasn't loaded properly.  I believe that the sound card in your laptop is a Realtek AC97 - is that correct?  If that is correct, and if Ubuntu can detect your sound card, try 

[code]sudo modprobe snd-ac97-codec
```

That should load the appropriate for the current session.  (I believe!)

---

### Post by Intel91 on 2009-11-06
I have the same audio card and my problem was that under System>Administration>Hardware Drivers Software Modem was enabled, which causes the sound to be output to a dummy output (don't know why), try seeing if it is enabled in your case, and if so disable it.

---

### Post by carterw65 on 2009-11-06
Yes it is a Realtec AC97. I ran the command and it showed nothing. I looked in System>Administration>Hardware Drivers Software Modem and all it had was a Broadcom B43 wireless driver which would be for my wireless card.

So what I am gathering is that it is not seeing the sound card at all. It works in XP so it is functional.

Any other thoughts?

---

### Post by carterw65 on 2009-11-06
I ran this: lspci -v and got this:


00:1e.2 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 03)
	Subsystem: Dell Device 01a6
	Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0, IRQ 16
	I/O ports at ed00 [size=256]
	I/O ports at ec40 [size=64]
	Memory at dfebfe00 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=512]
	Memory at dfebfd00 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=256]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: Intel ICH
	Kernel modules: snd-intel8x0

00:1e.3 Modem: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 03)
	Subsystem: Conexant Systems, Inc. Device 5423
	Flags: medium devsel, IRQ 17
	I/O ports at ee00 [size=256]
	I/O ports at ec80 [size=128]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel modules: snd-intel8x0m

---

### Post by carterw65 on 2009-11-06
Solved. When I upgraded to 9.10 I used my existing menu.lst so when I booted it booted into 9.04. I updated the grub to grub2 and it solved my sound issue. Now, I need to make sure that my dual boot is still working right :)

---

