---
title: "A new hard drive keep un-mounting."
date: 2016-12-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Raymond Day on 2016-12-16
I can do a mount -a and it fixes it for only a little time. Like 2 min. to 5 min.

It's a 6TB WD blue hard drive. I have on a USB 3.0 to SATA.

I have a 6TB WD green for a wile and it was going bad I was hearing a loud knocking sound from it wile using it. So I copied it before it went 100% bad to the new 6TB blue HDD.

Used rsync -av to copy it all but the 1st time I did I did not have the 6TB blue formatted right so it did not work. So I formatted it right and ran the rsync again.

Then unhook the old green hard drive and I had the 6TB mounted at /media/6TB-blue and I edit the /etc/fstab so the 6TB-Green would be just 6TB to mount it like that and use the UUID of it to mount it.

But then it see like a mirror of the hard drive still on 6TB-Blue folder. I did not went to delete it because it my delete the real one. So I turn it off and unplug the new blue hard drive then deleted that folder and all it had it it was folders no files.

So I guess something went wrong. It just keeps on un-mounting the blue hard drive now.

Here is some of the last lines of the dmesg.

```
[ 1367.976387] sd 105:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg4 type 0
[ 1367.980254] sd 105:0:0:0: [sdi] 124999680 512-byte logical blocks: (64.0 GB/59.6 GiB)
[ 1367.980959] sd 105:0:0:0: [sdi] Write Protect is off
[ 1367.980963] sd 105:0:0:0: [sdi] Mode Sense: 43 00 00 00
[ 1367.981626] sd 105:0:0:0: [sdi] Write cache: enabled, read cache: enabled, doesn't support DPO or FUA
[ 1367.993651]  sdi: sdi1
[ 1368.006961] sd 105:0:0:0: [sdi] Attached SCSI removable disk
[ 1368.037434] usb 2-4.2.4: Disable of device-initiated U1 failed.
[ 1368.045677] usb 2-4.2.4: Disable of device-initiated U2 failed.
[ 1368.220344] usb 2-4.2.4: reset SuperSpeed USB device number 111 using xhci_hcd
[ 1398.972953] usb 2-4.2.4: Disable of device-initiated U1 failed.
[ 1398.976695] usb 2-4.2.4: Disable of device-initiated U2 failed.
[ 1399.153652] usb 2-4.2.4: reset SuperSpeed USB device number 111 using xhci_hcd
[ 1399.261554] usb 2-4.2.4: reset SuperSpeed USB device number 111 using xhci_hcd
```

If that helps.

I hope some one can help.

This is bad just can't keep it mounted.

-Raymond Day

The hard drive not mounted any more so I tested doing a LS in the folder I was but it says:

ls: reading directory '.': Input/output error

So I thought do a fsch /dev/sdi but it comes back with this:

 fsck /dev/sdi
fsck from util-linux 2.27.1
e2fsck 1.42.13 (17-May-2015)
ext2fs_open2: Bad magic number in super-block
fsck.ext2: Superblock invalid, trying backup blocks...
fsck.ext2: Bad magic number in super-block while trying to open /dev/sdi

The superblock could not be read or does not describe a valid ext2/ext3/ext4
filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2/ext3/ext4
filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock
is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:
    e2fsck -b 8193 <device>
 or
    e2fsck -b 32768 <device>

A mount -a will fix it for a little wile.

I got it set up to send big errors in e-mail and it will say this:

Fri, 16 Dec 2016 18:10:08 -0500
Date: Fri, 16 Dec 2016 18:10:08 -0500
Subject: SMART error (FailedOpenDevice) detected on host: xxxx
To: <root@xxxx>
X-Mailer: mail (GNU Mailutils 2.99.99)

This message was generated by the smartd daemon running on:

   host name:  xxxx
   DNS domain: [Empty]

The following warning/error was logged by the smartd daemon:

Device: /dev/sdc [SAT], unable to open device

Device info:
WDC WD60EZRZ-00RWYB1, S/N:WD-WX21DB509TLV, WWN:5-0014ee-2b8266aa3, FW:80.00A80, 6.00 TB

For details see host's SYSLOG.

You can also use the smartctl utility for further investigation.
Another message will be sent in 24 hours if the problem persists.

I hope some one can help this is bad.

O yes. Doing a blkid command it don't show up.

Tested it again and blkid will show it. I guess it has to be mounted for it to show it.

My best guess is that when I copied it with out it formatted it made some data that is not relay there. Not sure. If so how would I clear that?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-17
The problem is likely your USB&#8594;SATA adapter/interface. This is a notoriously unstable interface on Linux. I've been told that it's similar in Windows. [This]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2346520") thread sounds very similar to yours. You can try what the OP in that thread does and test with a SSD that you may have lying around.

As far as I know, the problem is multifold: some interfaces don't have enough power to spin HDDs, some have a bug in the interface itself, some are as basic as lousy wiring&#8230; long list.

If it's basically HW-related, not much can be done at the OS end.

---

### Post by Raymond Day on 2016-12-17
But the same set up worked for over a year all I did was copy the same type hard drive only a WD green to blue and removed the green one. All other things are the same. Just another model hard drive. But same 6TB.

One thing when it boots up the little LCD screen I have on it will say this after the login: part.

Blk_updat_request: I/0 error, dev sdf, sector 200

And keeps doing that 272, 32, 64, 32, 64, 32. 64

Buffer i/O error on dev sdf, logical block 2, async page read.

All sort of errors like that and I don't have any /dev/sdf on it.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-17
What version/kernel are you running? Your profile states Ubuntu 10.04, but surely this is wrong?

I couldn't find anything dealing with Ubuntu specifically, but here are two threads from other related distros with comparable dmesg errors, both pointing to a problem with the USB&#8594;SATA bridge. Specifically, the uas module.

[http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=117061](http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=117061)
[https://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?t=219880](https://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?t=219880)

As per those threads and others:

[LIST=1]
[*]Try plugging into a USB 2 port to see if problem clears up.
[*]If above works, try blacklisting uas module for your device as per post #6 of second thread. This will reduce throughput though.
[/LIST]
In the above cases, the problem seems to be a combination of specific disks and the module. It is possible that there is nothing wrong with your superblock and it's just the module acting up with that particular drive. It could also be a failing HDD. It could also be power draw of your new drive, other kernel parameters… anything, really. We are only guessing at this point. Unless you are prepared to swap different HDDs in and out, and another drive of the same model, etc (in other words, do hardware detective work), your diagnostic tools are limited.

---

### Post by Raymond Day on 2016-12-17
Looked at the 2 links but nothing helped.

Tested a command on one of the link did:

> /dev/sdc1                    5.5T  3.4T  1.8T  66% /media/6TB
/dev/sdb1                    235G  151G   73G  68% /media/Lexar256GB
root@xxxx:~# pwd
/root
root@xxxx:~# ls
ls: reading directory '.': Input/output error
root@xxxx:~# hdparm -t /dev/sdc
/dev/sdc: No such file or directory

So I did a mount all and it went to /dev/sdc1 to /dev/sde1

Then I did the command again.

> root@xxx:/# hdparm -t /dev/sde

/dev/sde:
 Timing buffered disk reads: 414 MB in  3.01 seconds = 137.62 MB/sec
root@xxx:/#

It's a server a uname -a shows this:

 > 4.4.0-53-generic #74-Ubuntu SMP Fri Dec 2 15:59:10 UTC 2016 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

Or this info:

> Operating system	Ubuntu Linux 16.04             Kernel and CPU	Linux 4.4.0-53-generic on x86_64

Got that info out of webmin. I seen now for Drive temperatures on Webmin it says ([COLOR="#FF0000"]4 errors![/COLOR]) with the other HDD did not see that. I forget how I made it do the drive temperatures. Not sure if that has any thing to do with this.

With time the 6TB drive will not be there and I can just do a **mount -a** to fix it. But then not there any more.

All most sure it did it after I did copied it to the new 6TB drive that was not formatted right.

Here is the command I used to copy it.

[QUOTE]rsync -av /media/6TB /media/6TB-blue

It took about 1/2 a day.

Then I looked and it was not there so I had to make sure I formatted it and it was so I did the rsync command again and the files were there then.

Then edit the /etc/fstab file to take out the /media/6TB-blue and replace it with what it was /media/6TB and rebooted and it worked good for a wile.

As I typed this it un-mounted again. Did the mount-a and fixed it but looks like every time I did that it put's it at a new letter. This time:

/dev/sdi1

So from c, e, i

Wile I typed this here. Something is real wrong.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-17
> **Raymond Day said:**
> Looked at the 2 links but nothing helped.…Something is real wrong.
It makes no sense to keep doing the same thing over and over. You've already established that you get intermittent disconnection and wild results, so continuing to repeat won't solve the problem or bring new info to light.
> **DuckHook said:**
> …[LIST=1]
[*]Try plugging into a USB 2 port to see if problem clears up.
[/LIST]:?:

**Did you try this???** If so, what happened? If not, why not? The best chance to solve this is going about it methodically, one step at a time, and through a process of elimination. As I have already said…> **DuckHook said:**
> …It could also be a failing HDD. It could also be power draw of your new drive, other kernel parameters… anything, really. We are only guessing at this point. Unless you are prepared to swap different HDDs in and out, and another drive of the same model, etc (in other words, do hardware detective work), your diagnostic tools are limited.I also previously suggested…> **DuckHook said:**
> …test with a SSD that you may have lying around.So, **did you do this?**

In addition to the above:

[LIST=1]
[*]Use a different USB cable. Make sure it is high quality and rated for USB3.
[*]Make sure your USB port connectors are still good. They have a limited number of plug cycles.
[*]Are you using a USB hub? If so, get rid of it and plug directly into the USB port.
[*]Is this one of those SATA&#8594;USB enclosures that draws it power from the USB port? Or is it self-powered?
[*]Can you try another enclosure?
[/LIST]
Please do ***each*** of the above one step at a time and report back the complete results. If any of these are not possible, explain why.

---

### Post by Raymond Day on 2016-12-18
I put it on a new server. A NanoPi NEO and it mounted it and it stays mounted!

So nothing it wrong with the USB to SATA and nothing wrong with the hard drive.

I think because I first copied it when it was not formatted. It never told me a error. Then I formatted it right and copied it again and that's when it keeps unmouning.

Any one want to try this and I bet it will happen to you all so.

format it but some how do it wrong. I don't know how I did it wrong.

Then do a **rsync -av /from /to**

The /from /to is were ever your drives are to copy.

Then format it right and do the rsync again and with time it will not stay mounted.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2016-12-18
Never seen buffer errors caused by a different file system before.

Since this is a new drive, I would RMA the drive and get a replacement before putting trusting it with any data.

---

### Post by Raymond Day on 2016-12-18
> **CharlesA said:**
> Never seen buffer errors caused by a different file system before.

Since this is a new drive, I would RMA the drive and get a replacement before putting trusting it with any data.

But the drive works good. I hooked it up to a nano pi with it's one USB port and mounted it over 24 hours ago and it stays mounted and I can look at the data on the drive all look good.

So it's the OS on the other system. Like I said when I copied to a none formatted 6TB HDD it said no errors so I had to format it right then copy it all over again. So I think because I copied to a like mirror or something drive it my think it's still there and now don't work right. Keep un-mounting the drive.

---

### Post by lisati on 2016-12-18
Working well on one machine but not so well on another machine could be a result of a number of things. There could be some inherent fault with the hardware (or some other some issue) that is handled better by one machine than the other. Some combinations of hardware and software are just quirky and don't play well together.

Don't forget to unmount/safely-remove the drive from the machine on which it works properly before unplugging and trying in the other machine.

---

### Post by Raymond Day on 2016-12-19
I don't know why but it's working now. I put that 6TB drive same one with the same USB to SATA on a [nanoPi NEO]("http://www.friendlyarm.com/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=132") On it's one USB port. mounted it for about 24 hours it was mounted and worked on there. It has other USB ports on it's pins a RS232 all so. It was running Ubuntu all so.

Then I put it back on my system the same way, and it's been up for all most 24 hours now and it stays mounted and working.

Not sure what changed but looks like it's fixed now.

-Raymond Day

---

