---
title: "Dual Monitor Support Intel965"
date: 2008-07-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dhg1848 on 2008-07-25
I CANNOT get my laptop and extra monitor to play nice together.  I want to have a spanning desktop...but have had no luck thus far, so any help would greatly be appreciated:   


**Ubuntu Version**
[I]cat /etc/*release
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=8.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=hardy
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 8.04.1"[/I]



**Laptop:**         
*Dell D630*
Max resolution = 1280x800

**Graphics Chip:**        lspci | grep -i graphics
[I]00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)[/I]

**Extended Monitor**
*Dell 1908FP*
Max resolution = 1280x1024B

**/etc/X11/xorg.conf**
[I]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Option          "UseFBDev"              "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
[/I]

---

### Post by evets25 on 2008-07-25
I don't think I can help you with your problem, but I can tell you this: what you want is (I think) called "asynchronous display", and support for it has always been a little sketchy. At best, it will be difficult to get working, and it depends entirely on the graphics driver. 

Good luck.

---

### Post by JoneYee on 2008-07-25
I am on an HP Pav 1331SE and in pretty much the same boat.  

I posted xorg.conf in another thread, but it looks almost identical to that posted above, especially the devices section.

---

### Post by dhg1848 on 2008-07-25
Bump

---

### Post by ndrake on 2008-07-25
I'm running dual monitors on a Thinkpad T61 with the same graphics chip (according to lspci).  I use xrandr to get dual monitors working.

Try something like this:

sudo xrandr --output LVDS --auto --output VGA --auto --right-of LVDS

LVDS = The laptop screen
VGA = The VGA port

This assumes the external display is to the right of the laptop display.

If you are using DVI, you can change VGA to TMDS-1.  

xrandr -q will display information about all the devices/resolutions available.

You can switch back to just the laptop display by doing:

sudo xrandr --output LVDS --auto --output VGA --off

You can find a nice article on xrander here:

[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#Using__.24_xrandr](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#Using__.24_xrandr)

---

### Post by dhg1848 on 2008-07-25
xrandr gives me the error message:  Can't open display.

---

### Post by MrSootentai on 2008-07-25
Need some help on this too, I've got the same card but running on an Inspiron 1420.

---

### Post by JoneYee on 2008-07-25
> **ndrake said:**
> I'm running dual monitors on a Thinkpad T61 with the same graphics chip (according to lspci).  I use xrandr to get dual monitors working.

Try something like this:

sudo xrandr --output LVDS --auto --output VGA --auto --right-of LVDS

LVDS = The laptop screen
VGA = The VGA port

This assumes the external display is to the right of the laptop display.

If you are using DVI, you can change VGA to TMDS-1.  

xrandr -q will display information about all the devices/resolutions available.

You can switch back to just the laptop display by doing:

sudo xrandr --output LVDS --auto --output VGA --off

You can find a nice article on xrander here:

[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#Using__.24_xrandr](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#Using__.24_xrandr)

sudo apt-get install -s xrander:
```
Package xrandr is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
However the following packages replace it:
  x11-xserver-utils
E: Package xrandr has no installation candidate
oz@dv1331se:~$ apt-get install x11-xserver-utils
E: Could not open lock file /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (13 Permission denied)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), are you root?
oz@dv1331se:~$ sudo apt-get install x11-xserver-utils
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
x11-xserver-utils is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

```

So it would seem xrander has been outmoded by xserver-utils which I already have installed.

---

### Post by burningbed on 2008-08-01
I tried running:
```
sudo xrandr --output LVDS --auto --output VGA --auto --left-of LVDS
```
and get the following error message:
> xrandr: screen cannot be larger than 1600x1600 (desired size 3040x1200)

> $ xrandr -q
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1600 x 1200, maximum 1600 x 1600
VGA connected 1600x1200+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 400mm x 300mm
   1600x1200      60.0*+   59.9
   1280x1024      76.0     75.0     69.8     59.9
   1152x864       75.0
   1024x768       84.9     75.1     70.1     60.0
   832x624        74.6
   800x600        72.2     75.0     60.3     56.2
   640x480        84.6     75.0     72.8     65.4     60.0
   720x400        70.1
LVDS connected 1440x900+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 304mm x 190mm
   1440x900       60.1*+   50.0
   1280x800       60.0
   1280x768       60.0
   1024x768       60.0
   800x600        60.3
   640x480        59.9
TMDS-1 disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)

Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by burningbed on 2008-08-01
I finally came across a post that pointed me in the right direction. It's all working for me now. Here's the link:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5506057]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5506057")

---

### Post by mangelo123 on 2008-08-04
I followed the last link here it I actually have dual monitors now!!! Finally!! 

One small problem. When I click on "Identify Monitors" it shows my external LCD as 1 and my laptop LCD as 2.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by burningbed on 2008-08-05
It's the same way for me. It doesn't seem to be a big deal ("1" and "2" just seem to be labels), but I'm curious if anybody knows how to change that. You can always move the task bar etc. to whichever monitor you like.

---

