---
title: "fujitsu u810 touchscreen calibration"
date: 2008-08-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by keysword on 2008-08-03
I just put ubuntu on my fujitsu u810 and managed to get the touchscreen working, but i cant seem to calibrate it. It seems like the center of the screen is mapped to the full screen. Here is me xorg.conf:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"vmmouse"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
        DisplaySize     125 71
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice     "touchscreen"   "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
            Identifier      "touchscreen"
            Driver          "evtouch"
            Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/touchscreen"
            Option          "DeviceName"    "touchscreen"
	Option        "MinXPosition"        "0"
        Option        "MinYPosition"        "0"
        Option        "MaxXPosition"        "1204"
        Option        "MaxYPosition"        "600"
        
    EndSection

```

Thanks for any help you can give me.

---

### Post by ktucker on 2008-10-25
Hi,

I installed Hardy on u1010 (which I understand is the same architecture as the u810) and found some useful info here:

[http://forum.kuchingosc.org/viewtopic.php?f=13&t=286](http://forum.kuchingosc.org/viewtopic.php?f=13&t=286)

Recently I upgraded to Intrepid (beta) and noticed a utility to calibrate touch screen. So, far, this has not worked for me ... anyone had any luck?

K

---

### Post by bjforesthowell on 2009-01-22
I just bought a 1010 off of a buddy of mine the other day and I'm having the same problem with 8.10.... I've read that people have gotten it to work on 8.04 but I've yet to make the touch panel even jump with 8.10.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-23
Hi everybody,

I think you are running into the same problem us TX2000 users ran into.  The linuxwacom drivers confused Synaptics Touchpad with touch.  So we had to rename it "Synaptics Pad" in Hardy.  I'm betting evtouch has the same problem.

With Intrepid came HAL (hardware abstraction layer).  HAL will run your keyboard, mouse, and Synaptic Pad for you.  Unless you use a single key key bindings for rotation, in which case you still need the keyboard section.  This is because HAL breaks single key key bindings so you still have to run the keyboard through xorg.conf.  If not you can comment out the keyboard in Intrepid too.

So I'll load both versions of xorg.conf.  Sorry about the long names, but my desktop is so littered I've gotten kind of compulsive about labeling.

See if they work for you.  Be sure to back up your current xorg.conf first!  Also be a good idea to compare them and make sure I didn't make an obvious syntax error.

Hope this is helpful.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-07
Hi again everybody,

Wow!  So someone's downloading these xorg.conf's.  I don't mean to complain but could I get some feedback?  Are these working for you?

Thanks.

---

### Post by sabme on 2009-03-14
Hello Favux

I'm having same problem with my U1010.  The touch screen works with BIOS set to Touch Panel mode just not calibrated properly.  The Calibrate Touchscreen app is a pain you can't see the red X so you don't know what to hit.  I think that is where it falls appart, desperately needs updating.  I made it work once by flook but didn't save any relevant settibgs.

I'm looking at your xorg.conf files but dosn't Intrepid do things differently? 
 
$ sudo gedit usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/10osvendor/50-eGalax.fdi
[COLOR="Blue"][SIZE="1"]
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <!-- -*- SGML -*- -->
<deviceinfo version="0.2">
  <device>
    <match key="info.product" contains="eGalax">
      <match key="info.capabilities" contains="input">
        <merge key="input.x11_driver" type="string">evtouch</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.minx" type="string">130</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.miny" type="string">197</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.maxx" type="string">3945</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.maxy" type="string">3894</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.taptimer" type="string">30</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.longtouchtimer" type="string">750</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.longtouched_action" type="string">click</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.longtouched_button" type="string">3</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.oneandhalftap_button" type="string">2</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.movelimit" type="string">10</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.touched_drag" type="string">1</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.maybetapped_action" type="string">click</merge>
        <merge key="input.x11_options.maybetapped_button" type="string">1</merge>
      </match>
    </match>
  </device>
</deviceinfo>
[/SIZE][/COLOR]
I'll try your settings and see what happens.

That was a BAD idea, now I'm stuck in low resolution mode.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-14
Hi sabme,

Intrepid lets you use either HAL and the .fdi files or xorg.conf.  But depending on the capabilities of your tablet HAL can be limiting, basically only allowing stylus and not say, eraser and touch.  Configuring through xorg.conf doesn't have those limitations.  So it depends on what you have and are trying to do.  Actually both can coexist.  As you can see by the commenting out of the mouse and TouchPad.

Sorry about the screen problem.

---

### Post by sabme on 2009-03-15
Hi

Got my screen resolution back
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
and reboot.

Discovered
$ sudo gedit /etc/evtouch/config

which contains the mappings for the 'red' X's (if you can see them?!) that you click during System > Administration > Calibrate Touchscreen.  I suspect this is where most folks have a problem.  The order & physical layout on screen is like this:

x0,y0 . x1,y1 . x2,y2

x3,y3 . x4,y4 . x5,y5

x6,y6 . x7,y7 . x8,y8

Mine had a few errors which I fixed and then I evened out the results too.  I've attached my new 'config' file from my Fujitsu U1010.

This massively improved my touch panel experience.  It's not quite perfect yet as the mouse can't quite reach the very top or bottom of the screen.  

I tried changing the Min & Max Y values but didn't make any difference.  I think /usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/10osvendor/50-eGalax.fdi may be affecting things.  Any ideas about how it works?  Also how do I use Hal and xorg.conf together without screwing things up?  Or how would I stop using Hal?

Thanks

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-15
Hi sabme,

Glad video is back.  Apparently for the past year or so we're now suppose to try xfix:

[http://kshoster.net/index.php?c=tuts/xfix]("http://kshoster.net/index.php?c=tuts/xfix")

Sounds like you're making real progress!  Did you get the calibration tool from [http://linux.chapter7.ch/touchkit/]("http://linux.chapter7.ch/touchkit/")?

Or was it already included with your evtouch (from Synaptics?)?

Where does the config file go?  Do you have to put it in Sessions so it's available with each restart?

xorg.conf takes precedence over HAL and the .fdi file.  So if you configure something in xorg.conf that's what should control.  Occasionally my linuxwacom driver glitches and then the wacom.fdi takes over, reducing me to just the stylus.

What does your xorg.conf look like now?  We should just be able to put your new video sections into the Intrepid xorg.conf and get a working xorg.conf for your U1010 on Intrepid.

---

### Post by sabme on 2009-04-02
Hi Favux 

Sorry for slow reply.

Config file goes here:
/etc/evtouch/config

I didn't have to anything else, other than reboot.  Then it was alot better.  Still intermittently very slow to respond & can't get very top or bottom of screen.  This definitely needs improving!

Previously used default calibration tool (with the almost impossible to see red x's) that comes with evtouch via synaptics.

My /etc/X11/xorg.conf is very simple:

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

When I tried the changes you suggested before I lost my correct resolution.  Don't see why I'd use xfix when 
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
works fine.  The files from the touchkit link haven't been updated since 2004.

Thanks

---

