---
title: "Monitor resolution resets at boot (incorrectly)"
date: 2008-09-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Lachinchon on 2008-09-27
I have a 22" hp monitor with native resolution 1680x1050. Every time I boot, it resets itself to 1400xwhatever. I am running two nvidia cards in sli, and they seem to be set correctly in the nvidia-config settings. Why is my correct resolution not staying put? I have saved (over and over and over) the settings in the X config file, but the problem does not go away.  I looked at the xorg.conf file but it is mostly gobbledygook to me.  Can anyone help me out?

---

### Post by YetAnotherSimon on 2008-09-29
I had the same problem. Neither nvidia-settings nor displayconfig-gtk helped. After a while I had a whole army of X Configuration Files, none of them solving it. 

Then I tried the recommendation in the default X Configuration File:

>sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

This command generated a practically empty X Configuration File. After a reboot I could select the desired resolution in "System > Preferences > Screen Resolution". The applied selection survived another reboot, the problem was solved!

I guess that Ubuntu's "Screen Resolution" didn't like the X Configuration Files which were generated by nvidia-settings and displayconfig-gtk.

---

### Post by Bakon Jarser on 2008-09-29
It used to do that to me too.  Try running the nvidia-settings with root privelages and remember to hit the save to x button when you have things the way you want them.

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by Lachinchon on 2008-09-30
I think I finally solved the problem, too, At least for a few days now I have the correct resolution on  boot.  I deleted all of the saved config files, including the backup file. That alone still didn't work.  Then I changed in the config file the command "sli=on" to "sli=auto". I have no idea what the difference is, but that seemed to do the trick. Time will tell if the problem resurfaces. Thanks to all for your replies.

---

