---
title: "Toshiba Satellite A205-S5852"
date: 2008-07-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by emmerc on 2008-07-17
Today (July 17/08) I had the nice experience of installing Ubuntu 8.04 in a brand new Toshiba Satellite A205-S5882. It is running alone using the whole hard drive. (Pentium Dual Core 1.73 GHz, 2GB ram PC5300 DDR2, 200GB HDD, etc) let me tell you that so far everything works out of the box. 

I installed it for a friend who had a bitter experience with windows xp and he has almost one year working solely with ubuntu.

We tried the built-in camera in Skype and it works! All other things as video (1280x800), sound, built in card reader, wireless... these things work out of the box. If some one is interested, we will post some more details later on. Here is the xorg.conf, very simple but it works with compiz fusion effects activated!. 

Update (August 08/08) Wireless does not work -struggling with Atheros chip-, Compiz fusion works fine -full throttle- out of the box.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by nick413 on 2008-08-28
This should fix your wireless issues. 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=792158](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=792158)

I have that same laptop, and it worked for me. 

Did you get the built-in microphone to work?

-Nick

---

