---
title: "14.04 - Delayed Mouse"
date: 2014-05-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by james25 on 2014-05-03
I have just installed Ubuntu 14.04 today and got some applications running well but have noticed one thing that is really bugging me. You see, dragging and holding down the mouse is delayed. If I want to select some text in a browser, I need to hold down for a few seconds and then drag and if I need to hold down for a game, it takes a few seconds before it detects that I'm holding down the button. The keyboard is fine and clicking is okay. Ubuntu 12.04 (which I still have installed) was absolutely fine right out the box and so was 10.04. I'd hate to ditch Ubuntu once 12.04 is outdated just because of some mouse issues. I'm also using a touchpad if that makes any difference.
UPDATE: I've also discovered that it can right-click without much of a reason. Is this some new feature? If it is, how do I disable it?
UPDATE2: I've just been using 12.04 mainly because of this issue but for other reasons such as performance. I've noticed that this issue goes away if the system has been booted for a while like half an hour or so. Really weird stuff.

---

### Post by shoeyn on 2014-05-17
I am experiencing exactly the same problem on Ubuntu 14.04, does anyone know any way of fixing this because it's quite frustrating to say the least.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-05-17
Sometimes, it is an indication of resources limitations, the system gets busy doing its thing and there is not enough resources to do all tasks. so it makes choices and delays some of the tasks. What are your computer specs ?

---

### Post by Semox78 on 2014-05-26
Hi,

IMHO this is no performance problem. I have a Intel Core i7 vPro on a Lenovo T530 Notebook with 16GB RAM and NVIDIA Optimus with plenty speed available. This must be a Software problem. But how is that 'drag a window delay' solvable?

Best regards,
Semo

EDIT2 : So I found out, that when I change the driver from Standard X.Org-X-Server to NVIDIA binary driver, the* delays were completely gone*. Though now the *brightness control is broken*. It doesn't change. To accept changes you must hibernate and awake the Notebook. Bad thing :-(



EDIT 1: Right now first login after complete reinstall of 14.04. So I still changed nothing. The system is out-of-the-box.

---

### Post by Semox78 on 2014-05-27
Maybe here (see link below) or at least on that site there is an answer to the poor Linux-Ubuntu-Whatever-Distro-Gfx-Driver mess and behaviour. 

[B][SIZE=2][Intel vs. Radeon vs. Nouveau On Linux 3.15 + Mesa 10.3-devel]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_315_3graphics&num=1")
[/SIZE][/B]

The solution to the initial question is [FOSS]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software") or alternative Terms for Open-source Software:
Either convince Gfx-Driver companies to open-source their software to help the Community Coders or have phun while doing retrograde reverse-engineering the current drivers while making a lot of assumtions, which lead again to bad Gfx support.

Anyone?

---

### Post by alvarolinares on 2014-07-05
I started to notice this now.. after a few days of installed ubuntu-gnome in my dell vostro 1500 (intel integrated graphics)
i think before was working fine, but i'm not sure
this is very annoying :mad:

---

### Post by alvarolinares on 2014-07-05
Hi, i'v tried with a mouse, and the problem disappears.
It's related to the touchpad.
I've also had the right click launched without touching the button...

---

### Post by alvarolinares on 2014-07-05
After restarting with the mouse dettached from the usb port the problem dissapeared.
I can't reproduce it again. Maybe it has something to do with hibernation...

---

### Post by Wavic on 2014-12-16
Hi! First, sorry for my English! ;)
I have the same issue. It happens when I do CTRL+S to save some html page in the browser or when copy and paste something. It happes when when typing and have to hit submit button or something else to do. I have fresh installed Ubuntu 14.04. The delay is around 2 sec. Realy annoying! I am actualy minimalist person but I don't know why I've started to install all I found in the www. "A milion things to do after install Ubuntu". The majore thing I have done is Bumblebee. I have nVidia among the Intel graphics in my laptop and I dont know another way mimic Optimus in Linux.

---

