---
title: "11.04 on Netbook"
date: 2011-06-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nikolakolev on 2011-06-30
Hi there!

I'm planning to buy a netbook which i want to use with ubuntu 11.04. The few ones i liked are Acer Aspire One D255E, HP Mini 210, HP Mini 5103 Espresso and TOSHIBA NB520-10C. 

My question is are those compatible with the OS? Thank you!

---

### Post by gurgsnekr on 2011-07-11
Hi nikolakolev,

I'm using an HP Mini 210-2000 with Ubuntu 11.04 without any real difficulty so far.  Installed a new 250 GB hard drive and I am running Ubuntu 11.04 exclusively.  The only real thing I am having difficulty with is Bluetooth.  Sometimes it says it is on but I can't do anything, other times I can.  I have not had a chance to sit down and troubleshoot it, been too busy.  

Anyways, I recommend the HP Mini 210 with Ubuntu, unless you need to use Bluetooth a lot.  Hope that helps

---

### Post by riverboard on 2011-10-26
I'm using HP Mini 5103 with some difficulties.
Interacting with the interface isn't very smooth. Sometimes I wonder if I clicked something and then it opens 5-10 secs after I clicked on it.
For example. Holding the window, moving it side to side isn't smooth at all. Really weird. Considering 2GB RAM and a decent processor. Onboard graphics should be enough to provide a smooth experience. Maybe I configured it wrong. But I didn't really change much.
Watching Youtube videos in the worst resolution possible results in stutter. Maybe something is just wrong as I've seen people report working with ease on 30inch monitor.

I'm quite surprised that it's that slow.
I don't know how it runs on Windows.

I'm using the latest Ubuntu version.

---

### Post by xtremo on 2011-10-26
Give Lubuntu a try....it runs superbly even on my 3 year old Acer Aspire.

---

### Post by riverboard on 2011-10-26
> **xtremo said:**
> Give Lubuntu a try....it runs superbly even on my 3 year old Acer Aspire.

Thanks, I'll definitely consider it :D

---

### Post by Elmozzer on 2011-11-18
Hi nikolakolev

Did you buy The Toshiba NB-520; Any issues installing 11.04 - Anybody else have any experience.

Loving Ubuntu and would like a netbook that runs it well, quite fance the Tosh. cause of mammoth battery, nice speakers, but dont suppose the sleep speakers & USB n charge functions will work????

Many thanks

---

### Post by riverboard on 2011-12-31
Well, I've tried the Lubuntu. It was nice.
Today I wanted to see how Win7 would suck on my HPMini and I was surprised.
It's zillion times faster than Ubuntu.
Everything is smooth.
Youtube video playback is perfect.

I don't know what I did wrong.
Maybe there's no hardware support.

I installed Ubuntu on one of my PCs.
2GB RAM, 64 bit processor.
It's a bit old and I'm experiencing the same problems I had on my notebook. Slow interaction. No smoothness. Nothing.

If anyone knows why this might be, how could I fix the problem?
Otherwise I'll just switch back to Win7.
ps... It's interesting that I used WinXP on that PC and Ubuntu is slower than that. Noticeably slower.

---

