---
title: "9.04 fglrx and hd4870x2=NoGO"
date: 2009-05-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by JvP on 2009-05-05
Hi i am having some problems with 9.04 and fglrx i have tried allot of different configurations and installation methods.

Whats happening is that when ubuntu boots and the login screen is to appear the system totally locks up with a few scrambeled lines on my monitor. So my system is utterly unusable installed the RadeonHD open driver last night but this is NOT og good solution for me as it lacks most functions and is slow as he**

Have anybody had any luck with 9.04 and 4870x2 ?

Tried searching the forums but only found info on the older cards not being supported due to leagacy driver.

---

### Post by ModemMisuser on 2009-05-06
Ditto.  Scrambled video and lockup. :(  

All works fine on virgin install, but once you enable the restricted driver, yup, it fails to boot with the scrambled video/lockup you mention. :(

---

### Post by inspired on 2009-05-06
You need to uninstall the driver in recovery mode.

Here is how I did that...
Boot into recovery mode. From the recovery menu go to a root command prompt.

```
apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
```
```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

You might also like to try:
```
/usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh
```
Although I didn't find that was necessary, but I note that ATI suggest this as one way to uninstall.

Jonathan

---

### Post by ModemMisuser on 2009-05-06
> **inspired said:**
> You need to uninstall the driver in recovery mode.

LOL, I don't want to uninstall it!  I want a working driver so I can use the system with the proper acceleration level!

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2009-05-06
The same thing happened to me when I upgraded. NO fglrx driver worked with 9.04, and I tried, and I tried drivers back to 8.06. ATI's fglrx drivers are simply incompatible with the current version of XOrg. Not only that, but the X1200 chip in my FIVE MONTH OLD Toshiba L305D-S5895 laptop will no longer be supported by ATI's newest drivers:mad:.

Long story short: I went back to good ol' 8.10, with the 9.01 drivers, and I have OpenGL and compiz working just fine. It may be time to dust off my desktop, install a wireless card in it (other half won't abide cables) and upgrade to 9.04 on a machine with nVidia graphics. Bet it'll work great:).

:guitar:

---

### Post by inspired on 2009-05-06
> **ModemMisuser said:**
> LOL, I don't want to uninstall it!  I want a working driver so I can use the system with the proper acceleration level!
Sure. That would be nice. When you get what you want, please let the rest of us know.
For now, as far as I can tell, there ain't such a driver available. Thus, for those people finding their system unusable, what I outlined might help. It's got my system pretty much back to it's 8.10 performance... which was fine.

All the best...

---

### Post by ModemMisuser on 2009-05-06
> **inspired said:**
> Sure. That would be nice. When you get what you want, please let the rest of us know.
For now, as far as I can tell, there ain't such a driver available. Thus, for those people finding their system unusable, what I outlined might help. It's got my system pretty much back to it's 8.10 performance... which was fine.

All the best...

Well, yeah, but this was a virgin install... So I just reinstalled. :D

---

### Post by JvP on 2009-06-17
I see that in the release notes for Catalyst 9.6 a problem with HD4870 is supposed to be fixed, The problem that is supposed to be fixed is Xserver now starts properly with HD4870 Gpu configurations.

Going to test this driver tonight really hope it works the radeonhd driver is not good enough for my use yet.

Anyone who have this card and the login screen lockup/curruption problem tested 9.6 yet ?

Btw release notes for Catalyst 9.6 can be found[ Here]("http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/catalyst_96_linux.pdf")

---

### Post by JvP on 2009-06-18
9.6 is indeed working with jaunty and HD4870x2  at least with only one monitor, the driver locked upp multiple times trying to config my dual monitor setup :/

Any tips on getting dual monitor config / xinerama working ?

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-06-18
To get dual monitors working you need to turn off xrandr. Put this line in the "Driver" section of your xorg.conf after the "fglrx" line

Option  "EnableRandR12" "false"

Then restart x and you can use aticonfig or CCC to configure dual monitors for a big desktop. RandR12 and xinerama seem to be mutually exclusive and randr seems to be badly borked at the moment, especially if you are using KDE or anything but the latest gnome.

---

### Post by jmferret on 2009-06-26
Could not manage make 9.04 + 9.6 work with dual monitors as well.

Returned to 8.04 + 8.9 fglrx. This combo works and manages dual monitor setups wonderfully. Later fglrx drivers seem to have broken dual monitor support.

---

