---
title: "9.04 no backlight after waking from suspend"
date: 2009-05-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Sente on 2009-05-30
Under Ubuntu 9.04 my Asus eeePC 1000he fails to enable backlight upon resume from suspend. If I hold a flashlight up to the screen, I can see that it is indeed awake, but with no backlight; trying to adjust screen brightness does not help. What I find curious is that if I shut down the computer, during the shut down process the backlight comes back on (ie you can see the ubuntu logo fine just before the power goes off.

This is a recent phenomenon; suspend worked fine when I first installed 9.04 on the machine. I checked my synaptic history, and unfortunately I do not see any changes that correspond to this happening, although I may have installed some things via apt-get...

As per **[this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=991403")**, I checked /usr/lib/hal/scripts/linux/hal-system-power-suspend-linux and do not see any issue.

Anyone else experience this or have any thoughts on what to try?

---

### Post by James Keating on 2009-06-10
Before Karmic (9.10), I edited /usr/lib/hal/scripts/linux/hal-system-power-suspend-linux and changed the quirks line to:
QUIRKS="--quirk-s3-bios --quirk-s3-mode --quirk-dpms-on --quirk-vbe-post --quirk-vbestate-restore" 
(This needed to be redone after each update, since the file got overwritten.)

Now that file has no effect. Instead, I must add two boot parameters and delete references to the quirks in a file that removes them instead of letting them take effect.

The first time I suspend, resume works for a moment and then goes into hibernation. After coming out of hibernation, resume works from the second time on. This may be peculiar to my machine (an NEC VersaPro VY15F with an Intel 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device).

Make backups of all files you change. All changes must be made as root.

My method:

1. In /boot/grub/menu.lst
add i915.modeset=0 nomodeset to the defoptions line. This disables the new kernel mode-setting (KMS):
## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash i915.modeset=0 nomodeset

If menu.lst doesn't exist, your installation uses a new GRUB method.
If so, edit /etc/defaults/grub
and add i915.modeset=0 nomodeset:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash i915.modeset=0 nomodeset"

1b) Save and run the command update-grub.

2. In /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/98smart-kernel-video
delete all references to the quirks you need.
In my case, two quirks are in the section remove_all_video_quirks: 
     --quirk-s3-bios  --quirk-s3-mode
and three are in the section have_smart_intel: 
     --quirk-dpms-on --quirk-vbe-post --quirk-vbestate-restore

3) Save and reboot.

To find the quirks you need, look at the manpage for pm-suspend, and run pm-suspend followed by quirk options. Try combining everything that looks likely, then removing some. Be thorough and patient. Make notes, because you may be rebooting a lot until something works. 

If no combination works, try installing uswsusp and running s2ram, or try TuxOnIce, though I had no luck with either.

##########

Update for Lucid:

Under Lucid, the instructions above do not work -- with those kernel parameters, I boot into a black screen.
i915.modeset needs to be on in order to boot.

1. In /boot/grub/menu.lst
add i915.modeset=1 to the defoptions line. This enables the new kernel mode-setting (KMS):
## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash i915.modeset=0 

If menu.lst doesn't exist, your installation uses a new GRUB method.
If so, edit /etc/defaults/grub
and add i915.modeset=0 nomodeset:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash i915.modeset=1"

2) Save and run the command update-grub.

3) Save and reboot.

Formerly, after suspending the machine for the first time after each boot, it would recover for a moment and then go into hibernation. After booting out of hibernation, suspend worked find. Now, after suspending for the first time, the machine recovers for a moment and then suspends. After resuming, subsequent suspends work fine. 

I had video trouble with Lucid (apps hanging, system failure on viewing video), which I have solved by installing the newest Ubunu kernel (details are in a different thread).

---

### Post by dfm21 on 2009-07-25
Thanks! Works for my Vaio VGN T2-XP. Small roundup:
```

# test:
sudo pm-suspend --quirk-s3-bios --quirk-s3-mode --quirk-dpms-on --quirk-vbe-post --quirk-vbestate-restore
# if OK, make persistent
sudo vim /usr/lib/hal/scripts/linux/hal-system-power-suspend-linux
# paste arguments into QUIRKS=""

```

---

