---
title: "1201N 11.04 graphics driver issue"
date: 2011-08-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dbodoh on 2011-08-30
Netbook: ASUS 1201N

Having an issue with getting the graphics driver to install on 11.04.   Tried uninstalling/reinstalling. 

Says it is installed just not activated. (But I can not adjust visual preferences)

Wondering if there is a fix, or if not how to install 10.04 over 11.04(From what I've read 10.04 does not have this issue)

---

### Post by dbodoh on 2011-08-30
Okay new question.

I plan on deleting the 11.04 partion.

Which will mess up my MBR(i know this), but will installing 10.04 from USB drive fix the MBR with grub?

I wanna keep Windows 7 AND 10.04.

Let me know thanks

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-08-30
If you want help with graphics, at least tell us what graphics card there is and what driver have you installed. If it's not too much to ask, it might also be a good idea to reveal whether or not you used the additional drivers utility.

Deleting the Ubuntu partition will not touch the MBR of the HDD. On the other hand, installing 10.04 will overwrite it, so that at the end, you should have options of booting Ubuntu and Windows.

> **dbodoh said:**
> Okay new question.

I plan on deleting the 11.04 partion.

Which will mess up **my MBR**(i know this), but will installing 10.04 from USB drive fix the MBR with grub?

I wanna keep Windows 7 AND 10.04.

Let me know thanks

I've taken the liberty of assuming that you were asking about the MBR of the HDD. Humans are not known to have MBRs, apologies if I was wrong.

---

### Post by dbodoh on 2011-08-31
The video card is Nvidia ION

---

### Post by dbodoh on 2011-08-31
But instead of fixing the video card problem, which I've searched and searched for all over.

I was wondering on if there is a guide for installing 10.04 LTS OVER 11.04 without messing up the Master Boot Record.(YES COMPUTER'S)  Ive tried from the partition manager that comes with 10.04(delete 11.04 partion, and use deleted partition as NEW 10.04 LTS partition), but it gives me an error about root.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-09-01
Well, you have to specify the root file system. It's as simple as selecting '/' (yes, the forward slash) from the mount point drop down menu.

I don't understand the obsession with preserving the MBR. Given your current situation, you do want the installer to 'mess' with it, or else none of the OSs will boot. Once again, installing 10.04 will overwrite the MBR and add boot options for all OSs to the menu.

---

### Post by dbodoh on 2011-09-01
Its not really an obsession, i just don't wanna mess up my computer.  I've tried to removed other Ubuntu installations in the past and come to restart my computer, the MBR is messed up and i cant do crap.   So trying to do preventive maintenance.   But last time I wasn't trying to install a different version over.  So this is new territory for me.  So please give me a break.  Not a computer guru.  I'm not a novice, but no expert like you must be.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-09-01
Just trying to help. About the only way to prevent surprises is to understand how bootloaders work and what the MBR is.
Here is a good source -> [http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/p6.html](http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/p6.html)

---

