---
title: "8.10 Intrepid - Unsuspend wakes up, screen still off"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by erinspice on 2009-05-03
Forgive me if this has been addressed. My searches turned up lots of people complaining that their laptops won't wake up from suspend.  Mine does wake up, but the screen doesn't turn on. No backlight or anything, just completely off.  I know that the laptop has woken up, because I've heard it receive instant messages, and I can <CTRL><ALT>F*, log in, and reboot without the screen on. Is there a known fix for this, or does anybody have any suggestions on where to start looking?  I'm using Intrepid on an HP dv6113.

---

### Post by anemone on 2009-05-17
I'm having this same sort of problem, only I'm using a desktop computer and Ibex.   I hope someone here can help!  

Were you ever able to get your screen back up, erinspice?

---

### Post by erinspice on 2009-05-17
Not except by rebooting.

---

### Post by anemone on 2009-05-18
I guess that doesn't totally solve the problem, but I'm glad you could get it to work.  Mine won't come back up even after rebooting.  

I even tried rebooting with the installation disk in the drive, but still nothing.  The weird thing is, the monitor seems to recognize for a moment that the computer is on.  That is, it "wakes up", but the only thing that appears on the screen is a message saying that there is no signal from the computer.  

Weirdness!  :???:

---

### Post by anemone on 2009-05-20
OK, in case anyone is curious or has this same problem, I finally got my screen to come back up.  On the advice of a friend, I opened up the computer and took the battery out of the mother-board.  After a minute or so I put the battery back in, closed up the computer, and turned it on.  It worked!  

I realize this is a drastic way to resolve the problem, and I suppose it wouldn't work for a laptop.  Still, this definitely did the trick.

---

