---
title: "8.04 laptop Headphone jack doesnt work and other problems"
date: 2008-06-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by finch127 on 2008-06-28
so I have an Everex Stepnote VA2001T and the sounds is just fine on the speaker, I can also use the microphone port to record, however, whenever I plug in the headphones it mute the speaker, and nothing comes out of the headphones, i also try this with different headphones and nothing worked.

In addition to this, my mouse cursor disappears in Wine, and Battle for wesnoth, etc.  How can i remedy this?

Thanks in advance to all who help me! and sorry for bad english

---

### Post by finch127 on 2008-06-28
oh and also, which are the outputs you will be needing (lspci, etc) ?

---

### Post by AlexBellisBrown on 2008-06-28
Could you try the hardware testing? To make sure your hardware is supported. Go to System-Administration-Hardware testing, then follow the instructions and make comments about what doesnt work properly. Thanks. :)

---

### Post by stringkarma on 2008-06-28
I don't know about the mouse, but you may try installing some things for your headphone. First try installing jackd if that doesn't do then make sure pulseaudio or alsa are installed correctly.

---

### Post by AlexBellisBrown on 2008-06-28
Oh, and as always, try the update manager. You never know if you might be missing something...

---

### Post by finch127 on 2008-06-28
ok so, i install jack d, and nothing happen, then i reinstall alsa drivers alsa base alsa utils and alsa lib, but still nothing, like i said i can use the microphone port but not the headphone

i check all volume control and all is good, no mutes

then i check hardware, and it ok, only network card is there, but that is not a problem for me

---

### Post by finch127 on 2008-06-28
also i run hardware test, and i sent all info

---

### Post by finch127 on 2008-06-28
i sorry i keep posting but as update i want to mention that i have reinstalled all my pulse audio equipment

---

### Post by AlexBellisBrown on 2008-06-28
And is the headphone jack now working or not? Also, is there any chance the headphone jack itself could be broken?

---

### Post by stringkarma on 2008-06-28
I wish that I could help, I only know that these packages sometimes can help.
Good luck!

---

### Post by dinub1 on 2008-06-28
> **finch127 said:**
> ok so, i install jack d, and nothing happen, then i reinstall alsa drivers alsa base alsa utils and alsa lib, but still nothing, like i said i can use the microphone port but not the headphone

i check all volume control and all is good, no mutes

then i check hardware, and it ok, only network card is there, but that is not a problem for me

Did that headphone output socket ever work? It may be a socket electric connection issue and nothing wrong with software.

---

### Post by finch127 on 2008-06-28
no it still do not work, and i know for a fact that the jack did work because previously it worked under windows, so know it is has problems?

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-06-28
Many headphone jacks are wired so that the output to the speakers is physically disconnected in the jack when you plug the headphones in. These jacks are cheap and they wear out and break pretty easily. Especially if you use them a lot or otherwise abuse them. Mine broke because I bumped it once with the headphones plugged in and then my left speaker wouldn't work anymore until I replaced it.

My advice, try a different set of headphones and if that doesn't work, replace the jack.

I have real doubts that this is a software problem.

---

### Post by finch127 on 2008-06-29
yes it seems that there is nothing i can do, but that is alright, thank you all very much!

---

### Post by openxs on 2008-08-16
I have an Intel based Sony, I had to edit an ASLA file to make mine work, find out what hardware you have by opening a terminal & typing:

```
lshw
```

```
sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base
```

Add this to the end of the file:

```
options snd-hda-intel model=vaio
```

Ref: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=762308]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=762308")

---

### Post by kennedy7 on 2008-08-28
Hey what is your grahics card. I use to have that problem with wine on my everex. I was using the wrong video driver. And i figured out that my headphones work after installing a package. I could send you the package if i new your email. Do you have the headphone control in your volume control?? If when your in screens and graphics it willl tel you what card you got. If you got a generic card use vesa driver not openchrome.

---

### Post by gazell on 2008-12-13
I have the exact same problem on my stepnote nc1510 this is not a hardware problem because it works fine in other distros( I can't remember which at the moment) but I never got my wireless working there so I moved on. I think I fixed it once before but don't remember how. I am messing around with settings right now to see what I can figure out. Ill post once I find something.

--Update--
the sound part of the problem has been reported as a bug and a work around has been found and documented 
[here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/184314")

this fix only fixes the headphone jack it does nothing for the mic jack I'm still looking for a fix for that

---

### Post by finch127 on 2009-07-07
Hey I am finally back, and my english is better.

@kennedy 7

It is a Chrome9 card and I am forced to use the VESA driver for some reason. And also, my email is [email]mirpurisuraj1@gmail.com[/email]

@gazell

I will investigate that link and try out the many fixes posted there. Thank you!

---

