---
title: "how to test VGA card driver with 3D test"
date: 2009-11-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by coolkid on 2009-11-22
I used this package to install driver for my VGA card.
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy-updates/amd64/nvidia-glx-new/download](http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy-updates/amd64/nvidia-glx-new/download)
How could I test that driver is installed successfully?
Thanks for any help. :popcorn:

---

### Post by coolkid on 2009-11-23
is there anyone has a solution? :)

---

### Post by i.r.id10t on 2009-11-23
glxgears will show a frame rate when you run it

---

### Post by coolkid on 2009-11-24
I run command glxgears. And this is the result:
> 
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual

What happened?

---

### Post by coolkid on 2009-11-26
is there anyone have this problem :-?

---

### Post by klemes on 2009-11-26
Maybe you do not have the correct driver for your video card.By the way what video card are you using?You can see by giving the lspci command in the terminal.
Then my suggestion would be to go to the NVIDIA site and download the driver from there if the Ubuntu driver is not suitable for your specific video card.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-11-26
What is the output of glxinfo?

---

### Post by coolkid on 2009-11-29
> 
name of display: :0.0
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x21 24 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x22 24 dc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x53 32 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None

This is my glxinfo output. I think I installed the correct driver of my video card.I'm using NVIDIA Geforce 8400GS GPU.

---

### Post by u.b.u.n.t.u on 2009-11-29
Please post your xorg.conf file. It is in /etc/X11/xorg.conf

You may want to check for the latest Nvidia driver here:

[http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us)

---

### Post by coolkid on 2009-11-29
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

this is xorg.conf's content . Is my vide card Geforce 8 seri ? I don't know how to recognize the seri of my video card. :(

---

### Post by coolkid on 2009-11-29
I have another question. How could I replace old driver by new driver software? Thanks very much

---

### Post by coolkid on 2009-11-30
is there anyone can help me :)?

---

### Post by coolkid on 2009-12-05
how could I remove uncompatible driver and replace new driver?

---

