---
title: "Intel 82865G Graphic Card Issues"
date: 2009-06-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ssmokin on 2009-06-21
Hi,

I am newbie to Linux so any help with the Graphic Card issues that I am facing would be much appreciated. 

I've recently upgraded from Ubuntu 8.10 to 9.04 and I am facing issues with the X11 graphics. None of the programs like VLC are able to use X11 to play any video. The program just opens up and closes. I have placed the relevent section of xorg.conf below.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection


I was comparing this to the xorg.conf section of the Ubuntu 7.10 installation I have on the same machine. It appears as if Ubuntu in this case has not detected my graphics card at all. Would placing the sections from 7.10 rectify this problem or would I have to follow some other steps.

//SSmokin

---

### Post by xodis on 2009-08-22
Bump

---

### Post by lswb on 2009-08-22
The stock install of 9.04 has some issues with video playback on intel graphics. I have 855 chipset in my laptop and ran into the same problem. The "optimal" and "bleeding edge" solutions in this thread worked for me:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582)

It's really not as hard to do as it seems. Or you can wait til 9.10 is released...

---

