---
title: "12.10 and Lenovo SL400. &gt;Keyboard Layout issues + HDD APS&lt;"
date: 2013-03-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Lucefudu on 2013-03-22
Hello there!

Two questions:

**1) **How can I make my HDD APS (Hard Drive Disk Active Protection System) work again on Ubuntu 12.10? I have searched around, but only found dusty threads for Ubuntu 10.04 or prior...

Specs:
Ubuntu 12.10 (quantal) 32-bit
Kernel Linux 3.5.0-26-generic
GNOME 3.6.0

Intel® Core&#8482;2 Duo CPU P8600 @ 2.40GHz × 2 

Lenovo ThinkPad SL400

------------------------------------------------------

**2) **This question will be better answered by someone from Brazil, but here it goes:
In Brazil, we have two keyboard layouts if I'm not mistaken. When I switched over to Ubuntu, I wasn't able to configure my keyboard back to its correct layout, meaning that my "? and /" key isn't working.

Although this isn't a SL400, [this is the exact layout of my keyboard]("http://www.ztop.com.br/wp-content/uploads/2008/11/thinkpad_sl400_teclado_t61.jpg") (except for the Function Keys, but those are working fine).
And [this right here]("http://i.imgur.com/BiwmiW9.png") is the keyboard layout that most closely relates to my keyboard. But I'm tired of having to Press "Alt Gr + q" for "/" and "Alt Gr + w" for "?". Can anyone tell me what is the name of my keyboard layout and how can I successfully change to it?

[COLOR=#ff0000][SIZE=5]EDIT: QUESTION 2 WAS ANSWERED[SIZE=5]. HERE'S HOW TO FIX YOURS:
[/SIZE][/SIZE][/COLOR]> [SIZE=5][SIZE=5][SIZE=2]
1) Open [SIZE=2]the terminal (Ctrl + Alt + T)
2) Type in [/SIZE][/SIZE][/SIZE][/SIZE]**sudo gedit /etc/default/keyboard**
3) A text document will open. On the eight line, there should be a line saying **XKBMODEL="pc105"** or something similar. Change that to **XKBMODEL="thinkpadz60"**
4) Save the document and close it.
5) Hit Ctrl+Alt+F1
6) Enter your username (lower case, always) and password.
7) Type **sudo setupcon** and hit enter.
8) Type **udevadm trigger --subsystem-match=input --action=change** and hit enter.
9) Hit Ctrl+Alt+F7 to go back to the GUI.
10) Reboot your computer and it is fixed.

~ Answered by: Mikhail.Inspired

Thank you all very much.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2013-03-22
Hi

Welcome to the forums :D

For question 1, i'm pretty sure you will need to install and configure the package ```
hdapsd
```
```

matthew-S206:/home/matthew % apt-cache show hdapsd  
Package: hdapsd
<snip>
Description-en: HDAPS daemon for IBM/Lenovo ThinkPads and Apple iBooks/PowerBooks
 This is a disk protection user-space daemon. It monitors the acceleration
 values through the HDAPS or AMS interface and automatically initiates disk
 head parking if a fall or sliding of the laptop is detected.
 .
 It is recommended that you use this daemon with the hdaps module provided
 by tp-smapi rather the one in the kernel, as this will save you a bit
 power and will work on a wider range of ThinkPads.
<snip>
matthew-S206:/home/matthew % 


```

Details of you laptop's make and model would not go amiss at this point.

I can't help with question 2 though.

Kind regards

---

### Post by Mikhail.Inspired on 2013-03-22
1) Open the terminal (Ctrl + Alt + T)
2) Type in > sudo gedit /etc/default/keyboard
3) A text document will open. On the eight line, there should be a line saying > XKBMODEL="pc105" or something similar. Change that to > XKBMODEL="thinkpadz60"
4) Save the document and close it.
5) Hit Ctrl+Alt+F1
6) Enter your username (lower case, always) and password.
7) Type > sudo setupcon and hit enter.
8) Type > udevadm trigger --subsystem-match=input --action=change and hit enter.
9) Hit Ctrl+Alt+F7 to go back to the GUI.
10) Reboot the computer.

---

### Post by Lucefudu on 2013-03-23
Thank you for your reply. I tried the command **hdapsd** and then verified it with **apt-cache show hdapsd**.
But when I tried to test it by typing **sudo find /** and tilting my computer, nothing worked. Could you tell me how to configure it properly? Thank you!

PS: I forgot to leave the model: It's a ThinkPad SL400.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2013-03-23
Hi

> **Lucefudu said:**
> Thank you for your reply. I tried the command **hdapsd** and then verified it with **apt-cache show hdapsd**.
But when I tried to test it by typing **sudo find /** and tilting my computer, nothing worked. Could you tell me how to configure it properly? Thank you!

PS: I forgot to leave the model: It's a ThinkPad SL400.

It takes a bit more work than that to install and configure hd aps on a thinkpad.

You have already installed hdapsd so no need to install that.

From the terminal, copy and past these command into it.

1. Install tp-smapi-dkms to allow hdaspd to see the accelerometer via sysfs.

```
sudo apt-get install tp-smapi-dkms
```

2. Ensure the modules are loaded at startup next time you reboot.

```
echo -e "tp_smapi" | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
```

The -a switch after tee is very important in the line above as it appends to /etc/modules are not overwrites the file.

3. Load the tp_smapi module now.

```
sudo modprobe tp_smapi
```

4. Ensure the hdapsd daemon is running (It should run at start up).

```
sudo /etc/init.d/hdapsd start
```

5. Test hd aps. Reboot and test again.

Various configuration values can be set via editing the config file

```
/etc/default/hdapsd
```

That should be all you need to get dh aps running.

Kind regards

---

