---
title: "15.10 - no battery detected in Dell Inspiron 7000 series laptops"
date: 2016-01-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by greatorety on 2016-01-06
In versions prior to 15.10 all you had to do to have your battery working was adding a kernel boot parameter *acpi_osi=Linux* in /etc/default/grub, but after changes made in kernel 4.2.x it no longer works ([https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=105721](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=105721)). 

Does anyone know a solution to this problem? I'm still on vivid on my Inspiron 7537 and would like to upgrade to wily, but there's little sense in doing that if I have no working battery afterwards.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-01-07
Hi

Did you try adding the ```
acpi_osi=Linux acpi_rev_override
``` kernel command line parameters to your grub file as highlighted in that bug report ?

*acpi_rev_override* is certainly compiled into the 4.3 and 4.4rcX kernel series.

```

matthew-xu-16-04:/lib/systemd/system:1 % grep CONFIG_ACPI_REV_OVERRIDE_POSSIBLE /boot/config-4.*
/boot/config-4.3.0-2-generic:CONFIG_ACPI_REV_OVERRIDE_POSSIBLE=y
/boot/config-4.4.0-040400rc6-generic:CONFIG_ACPI_REV_OVERRIDE_POSSIBLE=y
/boot/config-4.4.0-040400rc7-generic:CONFIG_ACPI_REV_OVERRIDE_POSSIBLE=y
matthew-xu-16-04:/lib/systemd/system:1 % 
```

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

There's also a PPA floating around for the kernel somewhere (maybe more than one), but if you go down that route then you *need* to know what your doing as at least one kernel PPA is for the daily builds.

As highlighted in that bug report "it may be necessary to carry out a cold reboot _twice_ in a row to make it take effect on the platform firmware".

Not sure why cold booting twice should be the case but then I've not looked into it :)

Kind regards

---

### Post by greatorety on 2016-01-07
Thank you very much for the answer. At work now, I'll elaborate more, when I'm back home.

---

### Post by greatorety on 2016-01-07
OK, concerning your questions. 

No, I didn't try adding *acpi_rev_override* as per the linked bug report discussion, because as far as I understood the talk it didn't work unless one compiled a kernel oneself (with some modified .config file) and that's way beyond my capabilities.  

But there in what you said comes a very interesting tidbit I didn't know (one I'm very grateful you gave me) - that this change got compiled into the 4.3 kernel and onwards. That, as far as I can gather ([http://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/kernel/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/kernel/)) means I just have to wait for xenial. Or, if I feel like adventuring, I can upgrade to wily and try to install the 4.3 kernel into it (e.g. from the linked PPA), but that is probably quite unlikely to happen ;).

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-01-07
Hi

> **greatorety said:**
> OK, concerning your questions. 

No, I didn't try adding *acpi_rev_override* as per the linked bug report discussion, because as far as I understood the talk it didn't work unless one compiled a kernel oneself (with some modified .config file) and that's way beyond my capabilities. 

This is the point. 

You shouldn't need to compile your kernel as CONFIG_ACPI_REV_OVERRIDE_POSSIBLE=y is already compiled in the 4 4.3 and 4.4x kernels. 

That's why i linked you to the mainline kernels.

> But there in what you said comes a very interesting tidbit I didn't know (one I'm very grateful you gave me) - that this change got compiled into the 4.3 kernel and onwards. That, as far as I can gather ([http://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/kernel/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/kernel/)) means I just have to wait for xenial. Or, if I feel like adventuring, I can upgrade to wily and try to install the 4.3 kernel into it (e.g. from the linked PPA), but that is probably quite unlikely to happen ;).

I'll give you the link again :)

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

Install the 4.3 or one of the 4.4x.rc kernels from that link, add the grub paramaters, update-grub, cold boot twice and see if it fixes it for you.

If you need directions of how to install one of the kernels from the link above then post back and I'll give you instructions.

Kind regards

---

### Post by greatorety on 2016-01-09
> ~$ dmesg | grep batt
[    1.336005] ACPI: Battery Slot [BAT0] (battery present)


Thx a lot, Matt. As much for help as for the encouragement. As you see, the mission ended in a complete success :).

What I did. I upgraded to wily (along the steps detailed here: [http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2015/10/upgrade-ubuntu-15-04-to-ubuntu-15-10/](http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2015/10/upgrade-ubuntu-15-04-to-ubuntu-15-10/)). Then I looked into the link you provided. Thought it's gonna be some easy peasy adding a repository like with some Launchpad PPA, learned it's not exactly so (and that there used to be a Launchpad PPA for this, but is now discontinued). Then I followed this instructions: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/47397/how-do-i-add-the-kernel-ppa](http://askubuntu.com/questions/47397/how-do-i-add-the-kernel-ppa) (the second answer), entered the v4.3.3-wily folder, chosen the packages:

[I]linux-headers-4.3.3-040303_4.3.3-040303.201512150130_all.deb
linux-headers-4.3.3-040303-generic_4.3.3-040303.201512150130_amd64.deb
linux-image-4.3.3-040303-generic_4.3.3-040303.201512150130_amd64.deb[/I]

installed with *sudo dpkg -i name-of-the-package *in above sequence, added *acpi_rev_override *to */etc/default/grub, *then *sudo update-grub* and finally did a cold reboot (but not twice, only ONCE). It worked. I'm happy :)

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-01-09
Hi

I'm glad it's fixed and thank you for posting the exact steps you took. That'll help others looking for a fix.

If you're happy, I'll go ahead and mark this thread as SOLVED for you.

Kind regards

---

