---
title: "10.04 (&amp; 9.04) - Second Display (vx922) not correctly recognized with nvidia driver"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by benzap on 2010-04-29
I installed an update on this system back when I had 9.10, and it caused my second monitor to not be recognized anymore. I had no issues before, and it simply worked with the nvidia driver, with the nvidia-settings and I was able to provide the correct corresponding resolutions supported for the monitor, but now the unidentified monitor can only support resolutions of 640 by 480.

Some of my guesses to the problem:
[LIST]
[*]Xorg was updated, causing my monitor to accidentally lose support
[*]The kernel was updated? Same issues with support (i tried previous kernels in grub, some other configuration prevented me from even getting to the login screen)
[/LIST]

One solution I tried was to modify the xorg.conf file myself to include information on my monitor, and I was able to find a general hardware identity from this thread: 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-526440.html]("http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-526440.html")

```
Section "Monitor"
# HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "ViewSonic VX922"
HorizSync 30.0 - 82.0
VertRefresh 50.0 - 75.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection
```

but I'm not sure how to incorporate it within my xorg.conf file. I tried asking around on #ubuntu@freenode and #nvidia@freenode, they couldn't provide any information to my problem other than to click on "Detect Monitors" which does nothing.

Any help is appreciated at this point. Thanks.

---

### Post by krazyd on 2010-04-30
nvidia graphics bug.

due to the closed-source nature of nvidia drivers, you will have to just try a different driver version or ask around on nvnews.

---

### Post by benzap on 2010-04-30
Thanks for the reply, i'll try using different nvidia drivers and let everyone know how it goes

---

### Post by benzap on 2010-04-30
I tried what you said, but it didn't work. nvidia 175 still did not detect my second monitor correctly and the 96 driver wouldn't recognize either, but alas!


I ended up switching my DVI and VGA between my two monitors, and now the second monitor is recognized!

---

