---
title: "8.10 Installation on Toshiba Satellite L305D-S5895"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by user_ex on 2008-12-29
Last week I got a Toshiba Laptop model Satellite L305D-S5895 at a very good price, so my guess is that there are a lot like me using it with Ubuntu. It comes with Windows Vista pre-installed so I decided to go for a dual boot system.
This Lap top comes with:
AMD Turion 64 X2 processor
3GB RAM
250GB HDD
Atheros WiFi Card
ATI Radeon X1250 (RS690) Integrated video accelerator

I started Ubuntu 8.10 Live CD and launched the installation from there (I remember reading somewhere about problems with partition resizing when launching the installation from within Vista).

The installation went without problems.
After installation update your system to get all the updated versions of kernel and libraries.
Even after updating there are some issues with the Wireless Lan, the Screen Driver and the Suspend/Hibernate.

The rest works like a charm, the multimedia buttons work fine with Rhythmbox and Totem and the volume control on the front works with no special configuration.

**To solve the WLAN problem:**

**1:** Make sure the WLAN driver is nor blacklisted:

[FONT="Courier New"]gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist[/FONT]

Remove any references to ath_pci and ath_hal

**2:** Get packages to build driver:

[FONT="Courier New"]sudo apt-get install build-essential
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)
sudo apt-get install subversion
[/FONT]

**3:** Get the driver and install it:

[FONT="Courier New"]svn co [https://svn.madwifi.org/madwifi/branches/madwifi-hal-0.10.5.6](https://svn.madwifi.org/madwifi/branches/madwifi-hal-0.10.5.6)
cd ~/madwifi-hal-0.10.5.6
make
sudo make install
sudo depmod -ae
[/FONT]

**4:** Enable the driver:

[FONT="Courier New"]sudo modprobe ath_pci
echo ath_hal | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
echo ath_pci | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
[/FONT]

For more information check this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=816780]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=816780")
Thanks to Anduu for a great thread.

I also tried this other method (a more recent one) but it didn't work for me:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Atheros]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Atheros")


**To solve the screen problem:**

Some programs had issues with the video driver (I realized this after hours of googling). Blender, Googleearth and some Wine programs are some of them.
To solve the problems I updated the Video driver directly from ATI.

**1:** Get the file ati-driver-installer-8-12-x86.x86_64.run from [http://ati.amd.com/support/drivers/linux64/linux64-radeon.html]("http://ati.amd.com/support/drivers/linux64/linux64-radeon.html")

**2:** Build the .dev packages to update the video driver:

[FONT="Courier New"]sh ati-driver-installer-8-12-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/intrepid[/FONT]

3: Update the driver:

sudo dpkg -i xorg-driver-fglrx_8.561-0ubuntu1_i386.deb fglrx-kernel-source_8.561-0ubuntu1_i386.deb fglrx-amdcccle_8.561-0ubuntu1_i386.deb

For more information check the links:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Intrepid_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Intrepid_Installation_Guide")
[http://wint3rsh4d3.blogspot.com/2008/08/checkerboard-of-doom-solved.html]("http://wint3rsh4d3.blogspot.com/2008/08/checkerboard-of-doom-solved.html")

**Notes**
In addition, I also mounted the Vista partition to access it from Ubuntu.

**1:** Create a mount point:

[FONT="Courier New"]sudo mkdir /media/Windows/[/FONT]

**2:** Check the windows partition resource name with:

[FONT="Courier New"]sudo blkid[/FONT]

In my case it is "sda2"

**3:** Check that the partition is mountable:

[FONT="Courier New"]sudo mount /dev/sda2 /media/Windows/[/FONT]

**4:** Make the mount permanent:

Check the mount parameters with:

[FONT="Courier New"]more /etc/mtab
[/FONT]

Then add a line to /etc/fstab to mount on boot. 

[FONT="Courier New"]sudo nano /etc/fstab 
[/FONT]

In my case it is something like:

[FONT="Courier New"][COLOR="DarkRed"]/dev/sda2	/media/Windows	ntfs	rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other	0	0
[/COLOR][/FONT]

Reboot to reflect all changes.

Hope this helps and makes life easier!

PS: 
I haven't found a solution for the Suspend/Hibernate problem. It goes to Suspend/Hibernate state, but never comes back. It needs a hard restart. This is a known issue. 
Has anyone found a solution for this?

---

### Post by bachmaninoff on 2009-02-03
Hey, I have the same laptop! I took Vista off completely though, just because I don't want to mess with it. Your guide works great!!! Thanks for the info! :D 

Its kinda weird though, when I click on the wifi bandwidth icon on the toolbar it seems to be using two atheros drivers now - is this normal?

---

### Post by Rahmat on 2009-02-12
hi,

I have Toshiba preloaded with Vista as well with same configuration but i have Intel Processor instead.  But the Ubuntu Live cd never came up even when i tried to just view it.

please kindly advice me cos am missing my ubuntu on my laptop

---

