---
title: "11.04 long pause during boot process"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Parny on 2011-04-29
Hello to everyone

I'm having some issues during the boot process of Ubuntu 11.04.

As you can see from the dmesg log:
```
[    1.492021] IP route cache hash table entries: 131072 (order: 8, 1048576 bytes)
[    1.492772] TCP established hash table entries: 524288 (order: 11, 8388608 bytes)
[    1.494471] TCP bind hash table entries: 65536 (order: 8, 1048576 bytes)
[    1.494677] TCP: Hash tables configured (established 524288 bind 65536)
[    1.494679] TCP reno registered
[    1.494686] UDP hash table entries: 2048 (order: 4, 65536 bytes)
[    1.494708] UDP-Lite hash table entries: 2048 (order: 4, 65536 bytes)
[    1.494786] NET: Registered protocol family 1
[  146.870207] pci 0000:01:00.0: Boot video device
[  146.870236] PCI: CLS 64 bytes, default 64
[  146.871326] PCI-DMA: Disabling AGP.
[  146.871432] PCI-DMA: aperture base @ c4000000 size 65536 KB
[  146.871433] PCI-DMA: using GART IOMMU.
[  146.871436] PCI-DMA: Reserving 64MB of IOMMU area in the AGP aperture
[  146.874855] audit: initializing netlink socket (disabled)
[  146.874868] type=2000 audit(1304076126.860:1): initialized
[  146.883894] HugeTLB registered 2 MB page size, pre-allocated 0 pages
[  146.885151] VFS: Disk quotas dquot_6.5.2
[  146.885182] Dquot-cache hash table entries: 512 (order 0, 4096 bytes)
```the computer make a long pause (140s) during the boot.
During this pause the computer is apparently doing nothing: no disk activity and a purple screen showing nothing.

This happen every time with the installed version and also with the livecd.

The computer is composed of:
Phenom II X6 1055T
2x2GB ram
Asus M4A89GTD PRO/USB3 - I'm not using the igp but:
Nvidia 8800GT

Any ideas?

PS. Sorry for my terrible english

---

### Post by Kevtopia on 2011-04-29
Yes I see a similar pause (but I am not sure of the cause yet) it happens right after the grub menu and before I see the Plymouth splash screen.
I do like the look of 11.04 (I just upgraded from 10.04)

Laptop is Asus G73J

Is this helpful?

Apr 30 19:05:46 kevin-asus kernel: [   28.630980] Bluetooth: HIDP (Human Interface Emulation) ver 1.2
Apr 30 19:05:47 kevin-asus kernel: [   29.602728] hda-intel: IRQ timing workaround is activated for card #1. Suggest a bigger bdl_pos_adj.
Apr 30 19:05:55 kevin-asus kernel: [   37.215771] wlan0: no IPv6 routers present
Apr 30 19:05:58 kevin-asus kernel: [   40.059879] EXT4-fs (sda6): re-mounted. Opts: errors=remount-ro,user_xattr,commit=0
Apr 30 19:06:07 kevin-asus kernel: [   49.738227] CE: hpet2 increased min_delta_ns to 7500 nsec
Apr 30 19:06:07 kevin-asus kernel: [   49.738424] CE: hpet2 increased min_delta_ns to 11250 nsec
Apr 30 19:06:07 kevin-asus kernel: [   49.738429] hrtimer: interrupt took 8906 ns
Apr 30 19:06:27 kevin-asus kernel: [   68.903603] CE: hpet3 increased min_delta_ns to 7500 nsec
Apr 30 19:06:27 kevin-asus kernel: [   68.903671] CE: hpet3 increased min_delta_ns to 11250 nsec
Apr 30 19:06:27 kevin-asus kernel: [   69.563324] exe (2105): /proc/2105/oom_adj is deprecated, please use /proc/2105/oom_score_adj instead.
Apr 30 19:08:13 kevin-asus kernel: [  174.604879] CE: hpet6 increased min_delta_ns to 7500 nse

---

### Post by Naproxeno on 2011-04-29
Me too. I have **two** pauses. However, I can force the booting process to continue by pressing keys.

In my case, after the pause, "clocksource tsc" is mentioned but I don't know what that could mean.

Here are two snippets from dmesg:

```
[    0.822289] ACPI: Power Button [PWRB]
[    0.822322] input: Power Button as /devices/LNXSYSTM:00/LNXPWRBN:00/input/input1
[    0.822324] ACPI: Power Button [PWRF]
[    0.822428] ACPI: acpi_idle registered with cpuidle
[    0.822441] ACPI: processor limited to max C-state 1
[  156.341807] Switching to clocksource tsc
[  156.410961] ERST: Table is not found!
[  156.411007] Serial: 8250/16550 driver, 32 ports, IRQ sharing enabled
[  156.431598] serial8250: ttyS0 at I/O 0x3f8 (irq = 4) is a 16550A
[  156.621068] 00:08: ttyS0 at I/O 0x3f8 (irq = 4) is a 16550A
[  156.621250] Linux agpgart interface v0.103

```

```
[  158.036476] ata4.00: ATA-8: SAMSUNG HD103SJ, 1AJ10001, max UDMA/133
[  158.036478] ata4.00: 1953525168 sectors, multi 0: LBA48 NCQ (depth 31/32), AA
[  158.037133] ata5.00: configured for UDMA/100
[  158.042986] ata4.00: configured for UDMA/133
[  186.719080] Clocksource tsc unstable (delta = -25769490492 ns)
[  186.719160] ata3: softreset failed (device not ready)
[  186.719162] ata3: applying SB600 PMP SRST workaround and retrying
[  186.720072] Switching to clocksource hpet

```

I hope we can find the cause because this problem is very annoying.

---

### Post by spaik on 2011-04-30
I have the same problem and we really need a fix

---

### Post by Naike on 2011-04-30
OP, I got the same motherboard and the same issue.

I suspect it's ACPI causing the trouble.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1744993](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1744993)
Mine wouldn't boot either, I don't know if it was a pause or not but I didn't wait for that long.

Disabling ACPI in the BIOS worked for me, however I want it enabled, so for the moment I can't install Ubuntu :/

---

### Post by ove2 on 2011-05-02
I have quite similar hardware:

  AMD Phenom II X6 1100T,
  ASUS M4A87TD/USB3
  8GB RAM
  ATI Radeon HD 5750

and experience the same problem.

From my dmesg:

```

[     1.473995] NET: Registered protocol family 1
[  146.850140] pci 0000:05:00.0: Boot video device

```

It definitely seems to be a problem with motherboard. Is this something that a BIOS upgrade would solve? (If I don't want to disable ACPI.)

---

### Post by Alaex on 2011-05-02
Same problem for me, same M4A87TD/USB3 with X4 970
Disabled ACPI, boot time rapid. 
Will leave ACPI off till a fix arrives.

---

### Post by s56vpe on 2011-05-03
Same problem here with Asus M4A87TD/USB3, Phenom II X4 and Asus EAH5670. Boot process continues immediately after key press. I guess I'll just keep doing that until a fix is available :/

Cheers
Peter

---

### Post by CarNagE on 2011-05-03
I'm having the same problem. Anybody knows another fix than disabling ACPI?

---

### Post by ove2 on 2011-05-03
I have reported this as a bug here

  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/776588](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/776588)

May 4 -> The bug is now confirmed in launchpad

---

### Post by kvaka on 2011-05-03
same problem here, boot hang on NET: Registered protocol family 1. sometimes doesn't even resume. I have tu manualy reboot the computer.

M4A87TD/USB3
Phenom II X4 955
Nvidia 440GT

---

### Post by gtaluvit on 2011-05-03
I've seen this issue on my computer before, particularly with weird HPET delays and random freezes. Other than disabling ACPI, you might want to try either "hpet=disable" or "hpet=force clocksource=hpet". These do two different things, one disables the high performance timer and the other forces its use. YMMV.

---

### Post by Naproxeno on 2011-05-03
I think I found something.

My motherboard is a Gigabyte GA-MA790XT-UD4P. The latest versions of BIOS offers a C1E support option. According to [LessWatts.org]("http://www.lesswatts.org/tips/misc.php"), it should offer power savings when enabled so I had it that way. It hasn't been a problem until now but it seems that **disabling** it get rids of the boot pause.

I know most people in this thread have ASUS motherboards so I'm not sure this will work for everybody but I hope it helps.

(I've found [this bug in Fedora]("https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=614479") and there is a patch attached).

(Ok, after more investigation, it seems this is a [kernel problem]("https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=15289"), affecting several distros).

---

### Post by anarko on 2011-05-04
Same problem, waiting for a fix.

AMD Phenom II X6 1055T
ASUS M4A87TD/USB3
4Gb RAM
nVidia GTS250

---

### Post by jacojacker on 2011-05-06
> **Naproxeno said:**
> I think I found something.

My motherboard is a Gigabyte GA-MA790XT-UD4P. The latest versions of BIOS offers a C1E support option. According to [LessWatts.org]("http://www.lesswatts.org/tips/misc.php"), it should offer power savings when enabled so I had it that way. It hasn't been a problem until now but it seems that **disabling** it get rids of the boot pause.

I know most people in this thread have ASUS motherboards so I'm not sure this will work for everybody but I hope it helps.

(I've found [this bug in Fedora]("https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=614479") and there is a patch attached).

(Ok, after more investigation, it seems this is a [kernel problem]("https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=15289"), affecting several distros).

Thanks!!!!:popcorn: This worked for me!! I am also owner of an Asus motherboard, so whomever who has this problem and have C1E support on yours, disable it untill Canonical finds a solution.

---

### Post by Naproxeno on 2011-05-07
> **jacojacker said:**
> Thanks!!!!:popcorn: This worked for me!! I am also owner of an Asus motherboard, so whomever who has this problem and have C1E support on yours, disable it untill Canonical finds a solution.

I'm glad it worked! :)

Alternatively, this kernel parameter can work around the problem too, even with C1E enabled: **acpi_skip_timer_override**. I'm not sure what drawback, if any, has the use of that option, tough.

---

### Post by kvaka on 2011-05-07
For "hpet=disable" worked. But I'm not sure if it has any negative concequences. Does anybody know more about hpet?

btw... if C1E is disabled q'n'c doesn't work.

---

### Post by shelbydz on 2011-05-07
I have a Sager NP5135. I had the same issue. Going into the Advanced menu of the BIOS there was an option for Power Saving (don't remember the exact description). Turning this OFF allowed me to reboot without any issues. 

Hope this helps someone (: 

thx

---

### Post by spdqbr on 2011-05-10
Thought I'd throw my hat in the ring, having the same problem as everyone else here.

Using an Asus M4A88TD-V EVO/USB3, I managed to solve the problem by tweaking the BIOS setting: Power -> ACPI APIC Support
By default it is enabled.  When I disabled it, my boot times went from about 145 seconds to 5.44 seconds (Hooray for SSDs).

I don't think it's going to be too critical to leave this disabled until a proper fix is found. 

Hope that helps!

Edit:
I dual boot Win7 and it was *really* unhappy about me changing that setting.  So I changed it back and instead added "noapic" to the end of GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT in  /etc/default/grub (then ran grub-update).  Same effect, different method.  Boot times are still low in linux, and Win7 is happy again (so I can get my Portal 2 fix).

---

### Post by ACGilbert on 2011-05-11
I've been going with the 'noapic' option to boot by editing /etc/default/grub.
If I disable ACPI_APIC in bios I show only one processor core when I boot into Ubuntu 11.04.
Initially to boot the Live CD I had to use 'nomodeset' and 'noapic' by using F6 and editing the command line.

AC 

ASUS M4A88TD_V EVO/USB3
AMD PhenomII X4 965 BE
Corsair CMX4GX3M1A1333C9 x2
NVIDIA GT240

---

### Post by El Zoido on 2011-05-11
Hm, same problem for me, although not as drastic (hangs for ~30s).
Also AMD chipset with Phenom II processor.

Guess I'll try the noapic option, too.

Anyone got an idea if that effects something else?

---

### Post by ACGilbert on 2011-05-11
> **kvaka said:**
> For "hpet=disable" worked. But I'm not sure if it has any negative concequences. Does anybody know more about hpet?

btw... if C1E is disabled q'n'c doesn't work.

Just curious -- what is q'n'c ?

C1E is explained here:
[http://www.overclock.net/intel-cpus/220297-stopping-c2d-multipliers-changing-windows.html](http://www.overclock.net/intel-cpus/220297-stopping-c2d-multipliers-changing-windows.html)
It explains --
C1E: This setting, though it may be called different things by different BIOS makers, is essentially the setting that decreases the voltage supplied to the processor. In the low-clock state (266*6), it doesn't make sense to continually push large voltages through the chip if it's not making much use of it.

APIC is explained here:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Programmable_Interrupt_Controller](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Programmable_Interrupt_Controller)

I went with disabling C1E in the bios and removing 'noapic' from /etc/default/grub for now. Boot times are about the same.

AC

---

### Post by El Zoido on 2011-05-12
Both sound like something I'd rather not go without.
Ok, I'll wait for a patch then, anyway I'm not rebooting that often to make it a real problem.

---

### Post by ACGilbert on 2011-05-12
> I went with disabling C1E in the bios and removing 'noapic' from /etc/default/grub for now. Boot times are about the same.


I'm going to have to recant as this didn't work for me.
Went to boot this A.M. and I could not boot -- didn't matter how long I waited or if I pressed a key.
I've had to go back to 'noapic' (without quotes) in /etc/default/grub plus
```
sudo update-grub
```

In bios ACPI, APIC, C1E and ACPI_SRAT_Table are enabled as well as Secure_Virtual_Machine_Mode.
ACPI & APIC are a single entry in bios so to keep ACPI, noapic must be used as a kernel option.
This way all 4 cores are available to Vbox.

AC

---

### Post by Naike on 2011-05-14
Any updates on this?

---

### Post by kvaka on 2011-05-17
> **ACGilbert said:**
> Just curious -- what is q'n'c ?

C1E is explained here:
[http://www.overclock.net/intel-cpus/220297-stopping-c2d-multipliers-changing-windows.html](http://www.overclock.net/intel-cpus/220297-stopping-c2d-multipliers-changing-windows.html)
It explains --
C1E: This setting, though it may be called different things by different BIOS makers, is essentially the setting that decreases the voltage supplied to the processor. In the low-clock state (266*6), it doesn't make sense to continually push large voltages through the chip if it's not making much use of it.

APIC is explained here:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Programmable_Interrupt_Controller](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Programmable_Interrupt_Controller)

I went with disabling C1E in the bios and removing 'noapic' from /etc/default/grub for now. Boot times are about the same.

AC
sorry, should be c'n'q, meaning cool and quiet meaning decreasing core multiplier and lowering voltages.

---

### Post by chrmhoffmann on 2011-05-17
This is supposed to be fixed with the following patch:

[http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/x86/linux-2.6-tip.git;a=commitdiff;h=07f4beb0b5bbfaf36a64aa00d59e670ec578a95a](http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/x86/linux-2.6-tip.git;a=commitdiff;h=07f4beb0b5bbfaf36a64aa00d59e670ec578a95a)

Not sure how to make sure that this eventually goes into the natty kernel.

Rgds,
Chris

---

### Post by vavilov on 2011-05-18
I got the same problem - when booting the system hangs during more than 2 minutes - my board is ASUS M4A89TD Pro/USB3 


I hope they include the patch next release kernel of 11.04!!

---

### Post by Alaex on 2011-05-22
I don't know if you all noticed, but for those that disabled ACPI, as I did at first, it does indeed speed up boot process, but in doing so, I found that only 1 CPU core was brought up. I could not make the others come on-line. I had to re-enable ACPI and wait it out to see all 4 cores return. Odd behavior, but nonetheless I was able to duplicate it several times.

Hope there is a fix for this soon, the pause is miserable on such a fast machine. Thanks Ove for filing this bug.

---

### Post by Alaex on 2011-05-24
Oops, I see someone did see this.. Thanks AC, I mentioned this single core issue with ACPI off too. Did not see yours.

---

### Post by chrmhoffmann on 2011-06-15
This is supposed to be fixed with 2.6.38-10.

Chris

---

### Post by ACGilbert on 2011-07-28
As you can tell from my earlier posts this slow to boot and sometimes complete failure to boot has been bugging me for a long time. I have been running with pretty much all default settings in the bios and 'noapic" in Grub2. Sometimes my system had to be rebooted several times to get past the blank screen following the Grub screen.
I read many posts on install issues with 11.04 and saw some problems with pata dvd drives. So I swapped in a sata dvd drive and removed 'noapic' from Grub, only 'quiet splash' remains. I have 3 sata hd's and the sata dvd.
Weird solution -- but I've been booting fast and sure for 2 weeks now.
BIOS has AHCI, ACPI, APIC, C1E enabled and system monitor shows all 4 cores present.
Hope this makes sense and helps someone.
AC

ASUS M4A88TD_V EVO/USB3
AMD PhenomII X4 965 BE
Corsair CMX4GX3M1A1333C9 x2
NVIDIA GT240
All SATA drives including the DVD
2.6.38-10 kernel (this didn't help -- that's when I decided to go with the SATA DVD drive


P.S. Since I no longer had any IDE drives present I would get a boot message of 'no devices' prior to the Grub screen. I would'nt cause any  operational problems. I got rid of it by disabling the IDE controller in the advanced BIOS settings.

---

