---
title: "8.10 freezes"
date: 2009-03-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by taske on 2009-03-03
Hi friends,

I'm facing some ubuntu freezing problem. Problem occurs on boot time.
**Description of the problem:** On boot time, after the progress bar finishes loading the screen blinks and login screen should appear. Here is the problem, sometimes i could not get the login screen. All i see is black screen and noting works (dead). I must turn off the laptop by holding the power button.

I'm using Ubuntu 8.10 with updated kernel 2.6.27-11-generic. Aslo this problem occurs with default kernel 2.6.27-7-generic. Reinstall wont fix the problem, i tried and at the first boot same happened - freezed black screen.

Has anybody ran into the same problem or know something about this issue?

I take out the last message/log before freeze from:

**/var/log/messages**
Mar  2 23:14:51 wtf kernel: [   27.459278] NET: Registered protocol family 17
Mar  2 23:16:13 wtf syslogd 1.5.0#2ubuntu6: restart.

and 

**/var/log/syslog**
Mar  2 23:14:55 wtf ntpdate[5551]: adjust time server 91.189.94.4 offset 0.014515 sec
Mar  2 23:16:13 wtf syslogd 1.5.0#2ubuntu6: restart.

this are take out msg's/log's from normal boot for compare 

**/var/log/messages**
Mar  2 23:16:22 wtf kernel: [   26.920409] NET: Registered protocol family 17 ### <--- at this point freezes
Mar  2 23:16:34 wtf pulseaudio[5628]: ltdl-bind-now.c: Failed to find original dlopen loader.

**/var/log/syslog**
Mar  2 23:16:28 wtf ntpdate[5518]: adjust time server 91.189.94.4 offset 0.012915 sec ### <--- at this point freezes
Mar  2 23:16:34 wtf pulseaudio[5628]: ltdl-bind-now.c: Failed to find original dlopen loader.

I have lenovo 3000 n500 with gl40 chipset.

Thanks

---

### Post by meznaric on 2009-03-03
Sounds to me like an X problem. Try booting with vesa drivers. To do this you will need to boot into the runlevel 3, which you can do by editing the boot parameters when GRUB loads (you need to press some button - grub tells you which one but I don't know off the top of my head). After you see the boot line add 3 to the end of it and boot with that. Then you will need to edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. Change your Driver under the Device section from whatever it is now to "vesa". This should get you started to get to X but the graphics performance will be bad. If you have an nvidia card, you can try booting with open source nv driver (the same procedure as above but replace vesa with nv).

---

### Post by taske on 2009-03-03
Sorry friends i forgot to say, this problem does not occur all the time. Sometimes three times a day, sometime three times a week. 

The graphic card is intel gma 4500 mhd and i am using the latest drivers updated by update manager.

Thanks for the reply **meznaric**, i appreciate that.

---

### Post by taske on 2009-03-04
Anyone ?

---

