---
title: "Compiz, Supertux, and Other Open GL Apps"
date: 2008-11-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Richard9795 on 2008-11-11
I've had a problem with open GL apps (compiz, supertux 0.3.1, etc.). when ever i start playing supertux, in like 5 minutes, it all slows down massively the whole game just goes like the picture just goes slower than the refresh rate of a monitor like 1 fps (basically the whole game freezes the music is all choppy). when i manage to exit, compiz is slow like cairo-dock does not respond to the mouse its sloooooooooooowwwwwww.. can anyone help me (my tech specs are in my signature) if any one wants to know wat is my xorg.conf it is below all this. thanks to all who will help!

By the way im using Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AGPMode" "32"
	Option		"AGPFastWrite" "true"
	Option		"EnablePageFlip" "true"
	Option		"AGPSize" "32"
	Option		"EnableDepthMoves" "true"
	Option		"AccelMethod" "XXA"
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
	Option		"ColorTiling" "on"
	Option		"RenderAccel" "true"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"

EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"

---

### Post by Richard9795 on 2008-11-13
I Had Noticed that its starts when the laptop overheats? what do i do to stop it?

---

