---
title: "Mirror Screen Resolution problem"
date: 2008-12-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mazzanti on 2008-12-27
Hi folks,

I'm new to this forum although not to Linux and Ubuntu in general.
I have been installing 8.10 on my smallish netbook Acer Aspire One and have found it nice o use. However, i encounter a problem when I try to mirror my screen on an external display (my Sony TFT monitor for instance). Running xrandr -q tells me that my 16:9 screen on the netbook can only support 1024x600 and 640x480 modes, while my Sony TFT has a 4:3 aspect ratio. With all this, the only matching resolution in the two displays is 640x480, so that's the only resolution I can use. But of course, 640x480 is a pain and items in the menu go on top of each other, screen programs look huge, etc etc... I want to fix all this.

When i was using the original Linpus OS on this tiny computer, I could mirror/clone the display into another devie with higher resolution. Then on the laptop I could only see the 1024x600 pixels on the upper left corner, while on the external screen I could see the full thing (for instance 1024x768). In that sense, the laptop was mirroring the external display, but only a part of it.

Can anybody tell me how to do that in ubuntu?

Or is there any other way to clone the laptop screen into an external device, at a decent resolution?

Best regards and thanks,

Ferran.

---

### Post by Teefs on 2009-01-07
I have had similar issues with my dell mini 9 and my 1600x1200 samsung LCD monitor, except I only have the choices of 640x480 or 800x600. I still don't know exactly how to solve the problem, but I have found that restarting the computer with the monitor plugged in mirrors the displays at the native resolution of the my monitor after login.

I know this is not ideal and there is probably a better way, but this has been able to get me by. Maybe someone who better understands the problem has a better solution.

---

### Post by Coreigh on 2009-01-07
I am sorry I don't have your specific answer but ...

The resolution limitations are hardware limitations and the trick is to tell xorg to supply different resolutions to different devices. The default install configuration for xorg.conf is something very basic with lines like "Configured Device" and no options or descriptions. You need a custom xorg.conf.

You can try this command (have both screens connected and running)
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

This may get you steps in the right direction, but ultimately you will need two "Screen" and two "Monitor" sections one for the Internal display and one for the external.

---

### Post by johnkzin on 2009-06-14
Oddly, this works just fine under Dell's version of Ubuntu (8.04.1).  It works as described above for Xandros.

If I am running Dell Ubuntu 8.04.1 on my Dell Mini 9, then it defaults to mirror/clone the screens, and it sets the external monitor to 1280x1024 (its maximum), and the dell mini 9 to 1024x600.  It displays the upper left corner of the large external display on the dell mini 9, so the the upper-left part of the screen is visible on both displays.


If I run Canonical's Ubuntu-NBR 9.04 on my Mini 9 (booted via USB image), then I get the "bad" behavior: both screens want to step down to 800x600 when mirrored/cloned (which looks awful on both screens).

The previous poster said that more options need to be added to the xorg.conf file ... but Dell's xorg.conf file for the Mini 9 is VERY brief:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode 0666
EndSection

```


So, I don't see where this xorg.conf file fits what you're saying is necessary to add to the Canonical Ubuntu Xorg.conf file.

What am I missing?  Is there more, in another file, that I need to track down and find?

---

