---
title: "Repair a bad, missing, or corrupt XFS superblock on Buffalo LS-W1.0TGL/R1?"
date: 2012-10-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bmg444 on 2012-10-22
How do I repair a bad, missing, or corrupt XFS superblock on Buffalo LS-W1.0TGL/R1 RAID0? 

I am using Ubuntu for the recovery processes, and yes, I have also posted this to the relevant Buffalo forums.  I am very optimistic that the Ubuntu forum will yield solid results! ;-)


[The device is not visible over the network, and there is not a serial port to ssh into, even if Buffalo allowed it, which I doubt they would. "tftp only" on other devices that had the serial port. The device runs, apparently normal, but simply does nothing at all useful. NasiNav cant see it even with a direct, known-good ethernet cable.]


Backstory: This article practically reiterates the entire problem we are dealing with. the XFS part is particularly enjoyable. 
[http://forums.popphoto.com/showthread.php?614198-Beware-of-Buffalo-drives](http://forums.popphoto.com/showthread.php?614198-Beware-of-Buffalo-drives)

A User has lost access to data stored on a NAS device drive Buffalo LS-W1.0TGL/R1.  THe unit has a default filessystem setup, using the entire available drive space for storage RAID0

Drive contains the primary and only copies of digital photos of her children since their birth, and other sentimental items. She thought bysaving it on the device she was performing a "backup". This is the only copy of the date in existence if the data still resides on the drives. 

The partition (table listing is below) uses an XFS file system. 

I have been using Ubuntu12.04 Secure Remix, installed to a computer, and also Rescue Remix as a LiveCD

ATTEMPTS THUS FAR: 

After plugging the drives into Windows7 and MacOS, just to see if I got lucky, I ran Matrox Kryptonite which balked since XFS support is weak. XFS and Mac BSD Unix made my eyes bleed. 

So, I rolled up my sleeves and used my trusty Ubuntu laptop. 

DDrepair ubuntu and related tools have been used. I rigged up a direct cabling SATA to USB to one of the two drives inside the NAS, and connected via USB. 

sudo ddrescue -r 3 -C /dev/sdx /media/rescuedata/image1.img /media/rescuedate/logfile

The results were not useful having tried to run ddrescue as follows: one drive at a time, and rescue files individually from each image, and also trying to append one drive to another (-C) . All images generated by ddrescue were not mountable.  I tried to run mmls imagefile -b
but, the mount command would not run.. I tried
sudo mount -o loop,offset=16384 /media/rescuedata/image1.img /media/rescuedata2
<and>
sudo mount -t xfs -o loop,offset=16384 /media/rescuedata/image1.img /media/rescuedata2

The problem is that mmls appears to only support: dos mac, bsd, sun, gpt
mmls -t gpt -i raw /media/rescuedata/rescue1.img 
yields: 
"Invalid Magic Value" and the rest varies per filesystem type (bsd/gpt/dos/sun etc) 
so I cant really see the offset size.. and therefore cant really mount the image.

I am running FOREMOST right now.. and that is going to take a while.. so I thought i was ask the forums their thoughts. I will update posts if Foremost does the job, otherwise, assume this is an open issue. 


XFS_repair/XFS_check utilities yielded no joy.. 
The output of xfs_check is:
xfs_check /dev/sdx
xfs_check: unexpected XFS SB magic number 0x4449534b
xfs_check: WARNING filesystem V1 dirs, limited functionality provided.
xfs_check: read failed: Invalid argument
xfs_check: data size check failed
cache_node_purge:refcount was 1, not zero (node=0xa0a4900)
xfs_check: cannot read root inode (22) 
bad superblock magic number 4449534b, giving up

And when I try xfs_repair I get: 
xfs_repair -n /dev/sdx (runs for a hours)
Phase 1 - find and verify superblock...
bad primary superblock - bad magic number !!!
attempting to find secondary superblock...
...found candidate secondary superblock... error reading superblock 115 -- seek to offset  493913702400 failed unable to verify superblock, continuing...
[or on another pass...]
...found candidate secondary superblock... error reading superblock 117 -- seek to offset 502503505920 failed unable to verify superblock, continuing...
[etc etc the above appears a few times, until finally]
...Sorry, could not find valid secondary superblock
Exiting now.



Here is a sample of one of the two drives (both are identical):

Disk /dev/sdc: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xf1bab5ab

  Device Boot  	Start     	End  	Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1          	63 	2008124 	1004031   83  Linux
/dev/sdc2     	2008125	12016619 	5004247+  83  Linux
/dev/sdc4    	12016620   976768064   482375722+   5  Extended
/dev/sdc5    	12016683	14024744 	1004031   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdc6    	14024808   974984849   480480021   83  Linux
.
TestDisk 6.13, Data Recovery Utility, November 2011
Christophe GRENIER <grenier@cgsecurity.org>
[http://www.cgsecurity.org](http://www.cgsecurity.org)

Disk /dev/sdc - 500 GB / 465 GiB - CHS 60801 255 63

The harddisk (500 GB / 465 GiB) seems too small! (< 1261 GB / 1175 GiB)
Check the harddisk size: HD jumpers settings, BIOS detection...

The following partitions can't be recovered:
	Partition           	Start    	End	Size in sectors
  Linux              	873   1  1 120506 248 38 1921919744
>  Linux            	33769   1  1 153402 248 38 1921919744
[ Continue ]
XFS 6.2+ - bitmap version, 984 GB / 916 GiB


[Next I will be assembling a mock up RAID1 or RAID0 array with USB cables after I return from the Holy GeekStube, MicroCenter.  I thought I would try ufsexplorer on various OS Platforms to see if it makes a difference.]

[I have a couple of other ideas, but it is becoming a question of time invested etc.. at this point... this is a reasonably slow process and some of it is necessarily trial and error.]

Bryan Grant Atlanta GA 

PS: 
Why does Buffalo use XFS on consumer devices? Most home users never think to buy and use a UPS, so.. why set them up for failure and data loss by selecting XFS?! I am just saying
"Due to balance of speed and safety, there is the possibility to lose data on abrupt power loss (outdated journal metadata), but not filesystem consistence"

---

