---
title: "9.10 Belkin wirelss usb not working"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bob12388 on 2009-11-02
Upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04, the belkin wireless usb adaptor f5d7059 v4 no longer works. The wirelss adaptor worked fine out-of-box with previous versions of ubuntu so i dont know what the problem is. 

"sudo lshw -C network" shows the wireless adaptor is connected computer but it just doesnt work.

  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 5
       bus info: pci@0000:01:05.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 10
       serial: 00:19:66:12:b7:36
       size: 100MB/s
       capacity: 100MB/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=8139too driverversion=0.9.28 duplex=full ip=192.168.2.110 latency=32 link=yes maxlatency=64 mingnt=32 multicast=yes port=MII speed=100MB/s
       resources: irq:22 ioport:b800(size=256) memory:ff0ff800-ff0ff8ff
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: wlan0
       serial: 00:1c:df:77:d0:ab
       capabilities: ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg
 
Tried following the insturctions here ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Belkin%20F5D8053](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Belkin%20F5D8053)) by downloading the berkin driver setup.exe, but when running it with wine it just crashes. "Error Number: 0x80040707, Description DLL function call crashed: Install. EnumerateDevice"

Anyone know how to fix this? Help please. Thanks

---

### Post by Adski13 on 2009-11-16
I'm afraid I can't offer a solution, but I appear to be having the same problem.  I have a dual boot ASRock Ion 330 nettop running Windows 7 and Karmic.  In windows 7 (and previous releases of Ubuntu) the adapter works fine however in karmic, the Belkin USB wireless adapter can "see" the wireless networks but cannot connect to them.

The only help I can provide is observations I have made and what I have tried thus far in the hope that this may help others troubleshoot this issue further.

The problem seems to be in obtaining an IP address from my WPA2 encrypted network.  I have tried connecting to unsecured networks too and this also fails to obtain an IP.  I have tried replacing the Gnome network manager with WICD but this did not help other than falling over at the stage of "obtaining IP address" which helped narrow down my search for a solution.

Although relating to a different wireless adapter, I have tried to use the instructions referenced in this thread ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1304892](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1304892)) to backlist the relevant module in the hope the hardware might be suitably similar but to no avail.

The fruits of my hours of googling seem to suggest that using a static IP address "fixes" this issue although I have yet to try this.  Regardless however, there seems to be some problem with Karmic, this particular adapter (along with others) and obtaining IP addresses from wireless networks.  For me, wired networks appear to work fine.

Sorry I can't be of any more help but I've gone as far as my extremely limited knowledge can take me!

Answers on a postcard...

---

