---
title: "10.10 on toshiba satellite no window borders"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by snafu006 on 2010-10-11
So for some of the people on toshiba satellits (or toshiba laptops) the fan control is working better. I now have full fan spin up and not having to use the FN(key)F3 work around so that's good. But now i get when using compiz no window borders.

On 10.04 i got around this using the compiz OpenGL and that fix my no window borders. But now on 10.10 every thing i try (see below) will not work. i was seeing if anyone else is having this problem and seeing if they have a work around.

Compiz is on my startup and i have tryed some of the stuff done on the older forums i just cant get this to work.

(Installed Compiz OpenGL First) Did not work
(Installed Advanced CCSM 2nd) To see if window Decoration was checked and was still not woking
(Installed Fusion Icons 3rd) Still not working even after clicking Reload window Manger
(Tryed reinstall or rebiuld compiz by) Alt-F2 compiz --replace still not working

My computer:
Toshiba Satellite L355-S7907
Ubuntu 10.10
3gb Ram
300HHD
Video crappy Intell Mobile Intel® 4 Series Express Chipset.

---

### Post by ocardona on 2010-10-11
I'm running gnome over freenx and also hit this problem when updating from 10.04 to 10.10.  The window borders and buttons appear as whatever color the background was when the window was instantiated.  Any tips on resolving this would be helpful.

---

### Post by Thirtysixway on 2010-10-11
Strange, I have a toshiba laptop and upgrading to 10.10 I didn't have issues.

---

### Post by snafu006 on 2010-10-11
lol i just dont know whats wrong. on 10,04 every thing worked fine with compiz on toshiba i am just thinking its software side and maybe new updates will fix this

---

