---
title: "11.04 and the raw1394 kernel module"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by LonelyStar on 2011-04-29
Hey,

I upgraded to 11.04, yeah.
I have a fireWire device which utelizes the raw1394 kernel module. It worked perfectly in 10.10. But now I get:

```

raw1394 module not loaded, modprobe raw1394 to correct

```

but when I try:

```

sudo modprobe raw1394
[sudo] password for nhuesken: 
FATAL: Module raw1394 not found.

```

Where can I get the module?
Thanks!
Nathan

---

### Post by damotor on 2011-05-08
Same problem here, looks like the old firewire stack modules aren't available.

---

### Post by damotor on 2011-05-08
sudo ln /dev/fw0 /dev/raw1394

---

### Post by sjchintha on 2011-08-06
> **damotor said:**
> sudo ln /dev/fw0 /dev/raw1394

i have the same problem and when i try to link as suggested above i get a No such fire or directory error msg..

---

### Post by Rob1970 on 2011-08-10
i too have 11.04... about a month ago i installed a cheap Belkin "Firewire 4-port PCI Card", and a 6pin-4pin Firewire cable, installed Kino, and it all pretty much worked out of the box...  i was able to capture 5 of my MiniDV Tapes that were recorded a few years ago.

the last of these tapes was successfully captured about 2 weeks ago.... i have since been on holiday and taken some more film of my little lad on the beach, and now that i try to capture the new tape, Kino fails to recognise the AV/C device as it had previously done... 

it appears that when i plug the MiniDV in, it creates /dev/fw0, but does not create /dev/raw1394 - Kino shows the error "Warning: raw1394 kernel module not loaded or failure to read/write /dev/raw1394!" when i try to capture

has there been an update in the past 2 weeks that could have screwed things up for raw1394, to make it suddenly stop working?? 

TIA
Rob.

---

### Post by Rob1970 on 2011-10-26
*bump*

it seems that since 'Natty', legacy firewire support has been dropped - i have found several suggestions about how to remove new 'juju' stack and reload raw1394, but i am still having no joy.....

it also appears that some Fedora users also have similar problems....

i am going to try booting from an old live CD later, but if this  works, i don't really want to have to boot to an old live CD every time i want to capture from my camcorder - but there has to be a proper fix somewhere!?!?!?!

please???

---

### Post by Dr.Fuzzy on 2012-02-06
Same problem here too. I have a haptic device (sensable-phantom omni) and reports PDD Error: raw1394 module not loaded, modprobe raw1394 to correct. Then modprobe raw1394 reports FATAL: Module raw1394 not found.

Tried creating a symlink from /dev/fw0 to /dev/raw1394 with no luck..

Please somebody help!!!

---

### Post by grigouille on 2012-02-07
I suggest : ```
sudo chmod 777 /dev/fw?
```

---

### Post by perfortnight on 2012-03-13
I have two DFW-V500 firewire cameras that I am trying to connect through a firewire hub.

When I connect one camera directly to the computer it creates /dev/fw0, which I need to change the permissions on to enable cordiander to work.

i.e. 
connect camera
sudo chmod 777 /dev/fw0
coriander


However when I try and connect the cameras through the hub (there is only one firewire port on the computer I have to use) 
it can't recognize the devices and only /dev/fw0 is created.

Does any one have any experience in getting more than one camera to work through a hub with the new stack?

Thanks.

---

### Post by gppixelworks on 2012-03-15
Same problem here.  Submitted a bug report.  

Let the developers know you also have this problem by clicking on the 'This affects me also' link toward the top of the report.  Doing so elevates the bug.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/950879](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/950879)

---

### Post by martinofmoscow on 2012-04-18
*Bump*

---

### Post by uleg on 2012-07-20
> **Dr.Fuzzy said:**
> Same problem here too. I have a haptic device (sensable-phantom omni) and reports PDD Error: raw1394 module not loaded, modprobe raw1394 to correct. Then modprobe raw1394 reports FATAL: Module raw1394 not found.

Tried creating a symlink from /dev/fw0 to /dev/raw1394 with no luck..

Please somebody help!!!

Have you been able to make it work now? I too have been trying to run phantom omni on 12.04 without success.

---

### Post by rhk on 2012-09-02
I'm trying to solve similar problem with TRV-900 and Ubuntu 12.04 and can't make it recognize the camera. There seem to be many people fighting with the same problems and it seems that some of it started after the old FW stack was dropped (in Natty? Can't remember).

So please let us know if you ever solved this, it'll propably help others looking for solutions.

---

### Post by manikantan_nambi on 2012-09-06
I found the solution to make it work for the Phantom Omni in one of the older posts. Not sure if this would work for other devices

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1750274.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1750274.html)

---

