---
title: "OpenGL fails (But extra effects work)"
date: 2008-12-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by TheGuyWhoGotOn on 2008-12-11
When I first got my laptop with Ubuntu 8.10 Beta everything worked fine I had desktop effects enabled...I didn't try any OpenGL apps then though. Then I plugged my laptop into my TV...Then the extra effects no longer worked. Okay whatever I didn't care. All OpenGL apps ran REALLY slow too...Just today I restored my Xorg to the backup and now all my destop effects work fine :). However OpenGL doesn't work at all (Weird my computer is loading graphics better now and everything is running a lot smoother)...I tried running Hexen for Linux, Emilia Pinball, and Tibia (Linux). Hexen ran but never refreshed properly (Things were loaded once)...Emilia ran but it just went black (Probably stopped refreshing) and Tibia crashed with this error:
```

X Error of failed request:  BadDrawable (invalid Pixmap or Window parameter)
  Major opcode of failed request:  144 (XFree86-DRI)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  7 ()
  Resource id in failed request:  0x6600008
  Serial number of failed request:  61
  Current serial number in output stream:  61

```

My Xorg config is:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

And when I run "lspci" I get:

```

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/PM/GMS/910GML Express Processor to DRAM Controller (rev 04)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 04)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 04)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #1 (rev 04)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #2 (rev 04)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #3 (rev 04)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB UHCI #4 (rev 04)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 04)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev d4)
00:1e.2 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 04)
00:1e.3 Modem: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801FBM (ICH6M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 04)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) IDE Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 04)
01:00.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6306 Fire II IEEE 1394 OHCI Link Layer Controller (rev c0)
01:01.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
01:02.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4311 [AirForce 54g] 802.11a/b/g PCI Express Transceiver (rev 02)
01:04.0 CardBus bridge: ENE Technology Inc CB-712/4 Cardbus Controller (rev 10)
01:04.1 FLASH memory: ENE Technology Inc ENE PCI Memory Stick Card Reader Controller (rev 01)
01:04.2 SD Host controller: ENE Technology Inc ENE PCI Secure Digital Card Reader Controller (rev 01)
01:04.4 FLASH memory: ENE Technology Inc SD/MMC Card Reader Controller (rev 01)

```

All help is appreciated :) Thanks in advanced and I'm going to sleep now.

Edit: Also yes I have the Intel graphics drivers installed (Are they enabled properly?).

---

### Post by TheGuyWhoGotOn on 2008-12-12
Bump (Sorry but my topic is no longer on the front page so I doubt anyone will see it for a while), please help me, I have yet to use Ubuntu and have OpenGL run properly :/.

---

### Post by TheGuyWhoGotOn on 2008-12-12
Bump (Again) Please if somebody is at least trying to help please post.

---

### Post by TheGuyWhoGotOn on 2008-12-12
Bump...

---

### Post by AlmaTlust on 2008-12-13
I seem to have the same problem - intel 945 graphics, glxinfo says direct rendering: yes, but opengl stuff doesn't work...

---

### Post by TheGuyWhoGotOn on 2008-12-13
> **AlmaTlust said:**
> I seem to have the same problem - intel 945 graphics, glxinfo says direct rendering: yes, but opengl stuff doesn't work...

Yeah that's what's so weird...It's even more weird that my extra effects work flawlessly yet I can't run Tibia or Hexen...

---

### Post by TheGuyWhoGotOn on 2008-12-15
Bump

---

### Post by TheGuyWhoGotOn on 2008-12-24
Bump - could someone please help?

---

### Post by TheGuyWhoGotOn on 2009-01-05
Bump...

---

### Post by 5nak3 on 2009-01-07
I also seem to be having the same problems glxinfo throws out that my direct rendering is enabled and that is further confirmed with compiz running. However I still cannot play or play OpenGl games properly. 

For instance the mana world with OpenGl enabled runs fine. But tibia's linux client would not boot up.

However I have found a way of running tibia within linux, although you will need wine and have some patience. 

I could try and post a little tutorial the thing is i need to be able to take screenshots while showing the mouse...if someone can tell me how to do that I'll post a little tutorial.

From what i gather, directx9 does not seem to work well with wine and tibia. But by changing the graphics mode to directx5 you can run tibia flawlessly. The only problem is I can only find the directx9 to directx5 option change in game. And so to change the option to directx5 you need to load up the game, choose options, graphics, advanced and finally directx5. Thing is with a garbled screen there is a lot of guessing where buttons are...

As i said if someone can tell me how to get the mouse to show on screenshots i'll throw up a quick tutorial tonight.

---

### Post by AlmaTlust on 2009-01-09
I cannot run GoogleEarth either. It loads up, but the screen is terrible.
Celestia also doesnt display right - menus get overlapped by the main screen, moon and sun don't display surface etc. etc.
Are there plans to get a new version of the intel driver? That one seems to be the problem with my computer (Dell inspiron 1525)

---

### Post by rogerdean on 2009-01-10
Same story here with the new Intel driver and Google Earth (thinkpad x60s with intel 945 graphics). There are three or four other threads on this problem but no answers and no recent activity.

I've tried all the easy stuff to get GE working (downgrading to GE 4.2, disabling compiz, even tried to use the old i810 driver). Nothing worked for me. This is so annoying I might switch to Hardy or SuSE until this gets fixed.

You can get GE to render text properly (but very very slowly) simply by removing the intel driver using synaptic, and running your whole system in low graphics mode. Which is not the solution you are looking for I expect.

Does anyone out there have any other bright ideas? I really don't want to switch distro if there's another way...

Cheers
Roger

---

### Post by TheGuyWhoGotOn on 2009-01-24
> **5nak3 said:**
> I also seem to be having the same problems glxinfo throws out that my direct rendering is enabled and that is further confirmed with compiz running. However I still cannot play or play OpenGl games properly. 

For instance the mana world with OpenGl enabled runs fine. But tibia's linux client would not boot up.

However I have found a way of running tibia within linux, although you will need wine and have some patience. 

I could try and post a little tutorial the thing is i need to be able to take screenshots while showing the mouse...if someone can tell me how to do that I'll post a little tutorial.

From what i gather, directx9 does not seem to work well with wine and tibia. But by changing the graphics mode to directx5 you can run tibia flawlessly. The only problem is I can only find the directx9 to directx5 option change in game. And so to change the option to directx5 you need to load up the game, choose options, graphics, advanced and finally directx5. Thing is with a garbled screen there is a lot of guessing where buttons are...

As i said if someone can tell me how to get the mouse to show on screenshots i'll throw up a quick tutorial tonight.

Thanks, I'll look into that

---

### Post by rogerdean on 2009-02-21
Good news, anyone who's still struggling with this. I've just tried Jaunty alpha4 and the Google Earth problems above are gone. I understand there are some real performance regressions with the latest version of the intel driver but, for corrupted letters in GE at least, all is well.

Downside is I suspect Intrepid driver probably won't be patched, but just don't know.

So, either hang in there for a couple of months or take the plunge and see if a [somewhat unstable] alpha works for you. I've set up a dual boot with Intrepid and Jaunty - Jaunty does GE for me and, when I'm comfortable that I can handle the breakages, I'll transfer over

Never liked Intrepid anyway... ;)

---

