---
title: "9.10 Resuming from Hibernate/Suspend fails"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-10-31
I have a compaq presario v2405us (which is a v2000z with a sempron cpu).

I was using Ubuntu 8.10 for about a year and I had no major problems. I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 9.10 and most everything seems OK, except for the cpu fan seems to be more active, battery life has deceased, and there is a problem with NFS throughput. More importantly, I can't resume from hibernate/suspend.

When I click hibernate or suspend the screen goes blank, the audio mute button comes on with a loud pop from the laptop (from the speakers, I think), and then the mute button light goes off with another popping sound. Then, there is this on the screen;

atiixp:codec set timeout
atiixp-modem: codec set timeout.

The laptop powers-off after a few seconds.

A few seconds after turning on the laptop, I see the Ubuntu logo, and it says, "waking up please wait", then a blank screen and no disk activity. I let is sit for a few minutes to see if anything would happen, however nothing occurred. 

Is there a file to edit to get hibernate/suspend to work on this model laptop or is this a bug?
Any help appreciated.
Thanks.

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-05
Adding hardware information.
lspci | grep -i ati
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 11)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 IDE Controller
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge
00:14.5 Multimedia audio controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:14.6 Modem: ATI Technologies Inc SB400 AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 02)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
05:02.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-06
[B]Hi lamaistres,
[/B]The reason you have a lack of replies is because your problem is not easily solvable.
Add yourself to this thread....
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307618](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307618)

xeno

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-07
Thanks. I'll post my problem there. See what happens.

---

