---
title: "hp 2230s + 8.04.2 (rt) + Intel Graphics 4500MHD"
date: 2009-01-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by zouberman on 2009-01-28
Hello!

I've just purchased an HP 2230s laptop and successfully wiped out win vista installing ubuntu 8.04.2. Everything seems to be working great so far except for a not-so-intensive-but-still-annoying screen flickering that occurs randomly. Sometimes when I open my laptop the screen flickers sometimes it doesn't. When it flickers even the login screen flickers.

I suspect that something with the driver and the refresh rate might be wrong.

Things (I think) are worth mentioning:
(1) Screen brightness controls are not functional - both the applet and the keyboard shortcuts
(2) I configured power options disabling brightness and dim setings
(3) Configured compiz display settings to match the screen resolution settings (1280x800@60Hz)
(4) Installed the real time kernel and usually work from there as I need real time editing capabilities.

Please let me know if more info (i.e. *.conf, *.log etc.) is needed.

Thanx in advance :)

---

### Post by venomheir on 2009-01-28
Hello zouberman,
              I also purchased the HP 2230s Model# KS058UT,
It came with vista business and XP downgrade, I installed Ubuntu
8.04 everything works out of box save for Wireless, I then installed Ubuntu 8.10 everything worked out of the box save for Sound which only came out of headset, I did find a fix for it
on one of the ubuntu forums, I decided to stay with 8.10
but have noticed certain graphic flickering issues when playing games or stellarium. the graphics card is intel and supports 384 MB shared, I added 4 gig of ram to system, also both 8.04 and 8.10 are the x64 architecture since this is a core 2 duo processor. One note also before installing ubuntu I had the fingerprint reader set up from within vista, after Reformat and installation of ubuntu the HP fingerprint reader still runs and works well. Keep me updated as to your findings.

---

### Post by zouberman on 2009-01-28
Hi there,

I got the slightly cheaper model (NA874ES) but added 2G xtra ram too :)

My first attempt was to install 8.10 - had the same sound issue and fixed it - but the real time kernel was/is not working as I hoped so I switched back to 8.04.2 (32bit).

Let me get something straight. I am not witnessing screen flickering when I play games or do anything demanding in terms of the graphics card. Actually the flickering is more noticeable on my laptop's empty desktop!!!

So far this random flickering occurs only when my laptop is running on battery.

Assumption: Seems like ubuntu is trying to decrease the screen brightness when on battery but somehow fails and within a fraction of a second the brightness returns to normal. The procedure is constantly repeated until system restart; sometimes it stops; sometimes it doesn't.

It's really bugging me; especially since it's a newly purchased laptop :(

Thanx again :)

---

### Post by venomheir on 2009-01-28
Yes I have seen that on an HP pavilion running Hardy i386
and 64, try to disable screensaver, then look into power management and uncheck all for starters, I will contact my friend and see what he did or knows??

---

### Post by zouberman on 2009-01-28
Hello venomheir,

I just disabled the screen-saver - had already configured the power options accordingly - and rebooted my laptop. No luck.

Let me know if your friend has some input.

Thank you very much :)

---

### Post by igknighted on 2009-01-28
The driver in 8.04 is older than the 4500mhd (brand new chip from intel).  You should switch to 8.10.  Honestly, I'm a little surprised your graphics are working at all with that card on Hardy.

---

### Post by zouberman on 2009-01-28
Thanx for the hint.

Actually I discovered a post that led me to conclude to what you've suggested.

However 8.10 is absolutely no option because of the real time kernel shortcomings.

I have a sneaking suspicion that it's a matter of combined mini tweaks; so I do hope that somebody may come up with a solution. Until then I'll have to live with my flickering laptop screen.

Just for the record: Adding *Option "NoAccel"* to the *Device* section of the xorg.conf is not fixing the problem.

---

### Post by Hatrist on 2009-02-06
Hey guys,

I have the same laptop - HP 2230s - and I can see the annoying flickering on the desktop (and not only there) as well. I tried 8.04 and 8.10 - it's the same. IMO, it has to be something with the driver, probably we need to wait for a newer version, I don't know. If you find a solution, please share it!

Cheers.

---

### Post by Hatrist on 2009-02-21
A quick update:
I installed Ubuntu 9.04 Alpha 4 on my laptop (HP 2230s) today and the flickering was gone, but only while it was on maximum brightness and AC power. Any lower level of brightness (or when I switch it to battery power) and the flickering is back. So it's probably a power management problem or something like that, but I have no clues how to solve it, yet.

---

### Post by venomheir on 2009-03-29
HEY TEAM!!!!!!, looks like community came through again,
I test ran live cd Ubuntu 9.04 Beta jaunty jackalope amd64 bit on my hp2230s Ks058ut, what works out of the box:
SOUND,touch pad for sounds
WIRELESS WITH SIGNALS DETECTED touchpad for wireless
GRAPHICS CARD "APPEARANCE" WORKING/HAVE NOT RAN COMPIZ YET
SD CARD READER/ USB
BEAUTIFUL LOG IN
GREAT TRANSITION BETWEEN SCREENS NO FLICKERING OR FORCED GRAPHICS
I will perform complete install this week
but realize it is still beta, Jaunty will be officially released
in april hopefully we can find and report bugs.
Also just F.Y.I. stay away from any pc running via chipsets
graphics in hp 2133 still a pain :} ALSO...
I PICKED UP A SET OF 11 SILVER "POWERED BY UBUNTU" STICKERS FOR $5.00 USD real professional
FROM ZAREASON.com they sell ubuntu pc pretty pricey though. check it out!!!!!!

---

### Post by Hatrist on 2009-03-30
venomheir, have you tried lowering the brightness to the minimum level to see if there is any flickering?

---

### Post by venomheir on 2009-04-30
Okay, So ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty jackalope has been released, I realize there may be some bugs which need to be corrected,
I installed 9.04 release on my HP 2230s, Everything seems to work out of the box save for wireless, this is an intel wireless pro 5100 i believe, will have to double check, there is no wireless driver or signals, sound is still not as good but it is there none the less, compiz runs great, cairo-dock from the repository is somewhat unstable at the moment, there is a cool splash when enabled that shows a nice fading compiz image :P
I will perform complete install and bug report and post it
with results 05/02/09

---

### Post by CoreTech on 2009-04-30
Almost everything works great in Jaunty. I have posted a test report on the wiki:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2230s](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2230s)
 
To solve the wireless problem. Install wicd. I have been running wicd for a few days and i haven't been disconnected yet!

---

### Post by venomheir on 2009-04-30
GREAT!,I did not know that, thanks coretech I will be sure to give it a shot tonight#-o

---

### Post by venomheir on 2009-07-15
Hello Team,
           I performed a clean download burn and install of
Jaunty 9.04 last week on my 2230s KSo58UT everything works out of the box, even wireless, wireless touchpad, and detection.):P

---

