---
title: "12.04 is not detecting onboard Intel GMA 950! Need to install driver Manually!"
date: 2012-05-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by saifimam on 2012-05-28
My motherboard model is ASUS P5GC-MX/1333 and built in graphics card is  Intel GMA950. Unfortunately, Ubuntu 12.04 is not detecting on board  graphics card. Display option under settings menu is showing unknown  hardware, therefore, default resolution is always 1024*768 and fonts are  not clear and sometimes fuzzy. My question is, how can I install driver  for Intel GMA 950 manually? So that I can fix screen resolution. Thank  you in anticipation.

---

### Post by jjiggens on 2012-05-28
> **saifimam said:**
> My motherboard model is ASUS P5GC-MX/1333 and built in graphics card is  Intel GMA950. Unfortunately, Ubuntu 12.04 is not detecting on board  graphics card. Display option under settings menu is showing unknown  hardware, therefore, default resolution is always 1024*768 and fonts are  not clear and sometimes fuzzy. My question is, how can I install driver  for Intel GMA 950 manually? So, that I can fix screen resolution. Thank  you in anticipation.
as far as i know support in linux for this card is very dodgy at best, i have a few netbooks with it and this is why they do not have ubuntu on them.

you can try taking a look at this ppa [https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

---

### Post by saifimam on 2012-05-28
> **jjiggens said:**
> as far as i know support in linux for this card is very dodgy at best, i have a few netbooks with it and this is why they do not have ubuntu on them.

you can try taking a look at this ppa [https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

Thanks for your reply. I did not get the link. There are lot of packages. Which one should I try?

---

### Post by fantab on 2012-05-28
I too have this card on one of my PC and its a huge PITA. You can try this **[workaround]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11503588&postcount=4")**.

---

