---
title: "Geforce GTX 650 graphics card drivers"
date: 2013-04-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by atac57 on 2013-04-09
I just installed a new graphics card (Geforce GTX 650) with two DVI outputs so I can have two monitors. Right now the proprietary drivers are in use. I'm running Ubuntu 10.04. When I go to System > Preferences > Monitors I get the message "It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool.  Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?" If I click No, detect monitors doesn't do anything, when I click Yes, Nvidia X Server settings pops up with a message that says "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server." I already ran that command as root in the terminal, rebooted and I get the same message. The second monitor is connected right now (when I turn it on it says "No Signal"), where should I go from here. Appreciate any help.

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-04-09
Hi atac57.

Could you post the results of these commands?
```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 vga

lsmod | grep nvidia

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Regards.

---

### Post by atac57 on 2013-04-09
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 vga
> 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: nVidia Corporation Device [10de:0fc6] (rev a1)
    Kernel modules: nvidia-current, nvidiafb, nouveau
01:00.1 Audio device [0403]: nVidia Corporation Device [10de:0e1b] (rev a1)


cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
 
> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Thu Apr 22 11:44:23 PDT 2010




Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection


Section "Files"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"


    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"


    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection


Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection


Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection


Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

lsmod | grep nvidia did nothing

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-04-09
Thanks.

It seems that the driver is not loading.

Could you post the content of this file:
```
/var/log/Xorg.0.log
```
Please paste it here: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/") and then post back the link.

Regards.

---

### Post by atac57 on 2013-04-09
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/5694364/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/5694364/)

Thank you!

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-04-10
```
(EE) NVIDIA: Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module. Please check your
(EE) NVIDIA:     system's kernel log for additional error messages.
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
```
It is not loading, but not much information there.

Could you post the result of these commands?
```
dpkg -l nvidia*

grep -i nvidia /var/log/kern.log
```
Regards.

---

### Post by atac57 on 2013-04-10
dpkg -l nvidia*
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/5694401/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/5694401/)

grep -i nvidia /var/log/kern.log
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/5694403/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/5694403/)

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-04-10
It seems like the driver is not recognizing the card.

According to the README (/usr/share/doc/nvidia-current/README.txt), your card is not suported.

This is probably because your card is new and you are using a "very safe" (and then somehow a bit old) version of the driver. This problem can be solve by upgrading to a newer Ubuntu version.

Another alternative is to upgrade both your Xorg and Nvidia driver to a more current versions using a well-known ppa.

Try this one first:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
Then restart and see how it goes.

If that doesn't work either, there's another ppa with bleeding-edge versions:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
Same idea.

Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by atac57 on 2013-04-10
Hmm, I tried both of those, none worked. I guess I should try upgrading Ubuntu at this point, see what happens. Thank you.

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-04-10
Sorry to hear that.

I am away of my 12.04 machine right now, so I can't confirm that in 12.04 your card is supported.

At least the latest Nvidia driver support your card:
> Support for the NVIDIA GeForce GTX 650 Ti BOOST graphics card. 
Read about it here: [NVIDIA Has Major New Linux Driver: Optimus, RandR 1.4]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTM0NzE").

You may want to try that as a last resort before upgrading: get that driver from the Nvidia website. You would need to uninstall nvidia-current first.

Regards.

---

### Post by atac57 on 2013-04-10
[FONT=Verdana]I got it working! I'm not really sure why it worked this time. I entered the commands:[/FONT]

```
[FONT=Verdana]sudo add-apt-repository ppa:x[/FONT][FONT=Verdana]org-edgers/ppa[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana]sudo apt-get update[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana]sudo apt-get install nvidia-current[/FONT]
```

[FONT=Verdana]rebooted and now my second monitor is displaying![/FONT]

---

### Post by scabs on 2013-04-16
Hey atac,

How does this card perform with three displays?

---

### Post by ceaseoleo on 2014-02-20
> **scabs said:**
> Hey atac,

How does this card perform with three displays?

I tried with two dvi and one vga and didn't work.

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-02-20
**Thread closed.**

Please don't reply on old threads. It is much better to create a new one. Feel free to link this one if you want.

From the _[Ubuntu Forums Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy")_.
> If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.

---

