---
title: "8.10 Fujitsu Headaches"
date: 2009-01-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bjforesthowell on 2009-01-22
I just bought a Fujitsu U1010 and immediately got rid of windows. So once I installed 8.10 and I ran into the following....

1.)First and foremost the touch screen doesn't work.... Pretty upset.
- I've read through multiple threads and everyone's telling me to change 
  My bios settings to set this thing from tablet to notebook or visa versa.
  I'm running the 1.07 bios and I've yet to find where I set this up.

2.)The screen rotation and back light buttons don't work at all.

3.)Biometrics are a no go.....

If anyone knows how to fix this at all I'd appreciate the help!

                                    :p

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-23
Hi bjforesthowell,

To get touch screen working you need evtouch (in Synaptic Package Manager) and a correctly configured xorg.conf.  It is a touch screen, not a wacom digitizer, right?  Do you know the touchscreen maker?

In this thread are some other U1010 users.  I just uploaded a couple of xorg.conf's that I hope will work.  See:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=878797&highlight=Fujitsu+U1010]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=878797&highlight=Fujitsu+U1010")

Also in the thread is a useful link to a HOW TO on setting up.

Unfortunately I get the impression flashing the BIOS from windows is easier.  But I don't know for sure.  Why do you need to?

Here's an old link that might be helpful:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/FujitsuU810]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/FujitsuU810")

If you need help with rotation and/or keybinding let me know.

Good luck!

---

### Post by bjforesthowell on 2009-01-23
Hey Favux,

Thanks for the prompt reply! It's the touchscreen, I haven't bothered with reconfiguring the xorg.conf file yet because of the thread I read on kuchingosc.org (we must have read the same one). 

" So far, i have gotten the touchscreen to work. In BIOS, the panel settings need to be changed from "Tablet" to "Touch Panel" and some modifications to /etc/X11/xorg.conf are needed. "

I don't know why I'd need to make a change in BIOS so I joined the forum in order to find out what version of BIOS they were running (I did end up flashing mine from my windows box on a stick) because I'm running the 1.07 and I didn't see any options in there that would allow me to make the change that they were talking about.

I'm going to add that envtouch package right now to see if that helps, and I'm going to make that change to the xorg.conf file any way in order to see if this helps at all. Thanks for the example on the other thread too! I really appreciate it! I'll let you know how it turns out!

---

### Post by bjforesthowell on 2009-01-23
So I added the evtouch package and I configured the xorg.conf file with no results.... I just emailed the gentlemen that made the post about changing the xorg.com file on  kuchingosc.org in order to see what version of BIOS he was running to see if this is going to be a factor. Because every blog I read on line mentions this setting, but I don't have it at all.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-23
Hi bjforesthowell,

Weird!  Thanks for keeping us posted.

Good luck!

---

### Post by bjforesthowell on 2009-01-23
Favux,
     How do you get the key binding for the screen rotation buttons, and L.E.D. back lights?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-23
Hi bjforesthowell,

Basically you have to see if the key is producing a keycode.  So in a terminal type "xev" and then press the key.  You're looking for something buried in the output like "keycode 112" or whatever.  Do one at a time a list the button and keycode.  Not all keys will produce a keycode.  A little more info on keybinding at:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=996830]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=996830")

So you got evtouch working?  How?

---

### Post by bjforesthowell on 2009-01-24
I've found a newer version of BIOS (7.10) that I hope is going to give me the option that you see int this screen shot. I don't have the Touch Panel Setting option in my BIOS at all so hopefully this will give me the option. But the application that Fujitsu gives you is a windows executable and it won't run with Wine.... And I left my windows thumb drive at work so this may have to wait until Monday if I can't find another way to get the application to run. I'll let you know if this gets it straightened out. 

That and the screen rotation, and back light keys don't give out a key code. So I'm sort of stuck trying to see if they're eve recognized hardware. You would think that the back light would be hardwired in but that doesn't seem to be the case.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-24
Hi bjforesthowell,

Good.  It looks doable.  A lot of laptops have buttons that we can't detect.  But you should still be able to do rotation.

---

### Post by bjforesthowell on 2009-01-25
Well that was a flop.... I wasn't able to upgrade the bios (it was for a different hardware platform), or downgrade to 1.05 (it's what the Korean site's handing out for the U1010). When the 1.07 was for the U810 (the American counterpart). So I spent some time with the good folks from Fujitsu tech support to see if they could get me some older versions of bios for the U810 and the individual I spoke to said that the wouldn't be able to help me. Which was a treat.I did however get an email back from the guy that started this thread([http://forum.kuchingosc.org/viewtopic.php?f=13&t=286](http://forum.kuchingosc.org/viewtopic.php?f=13&t=286)) on the other forum but he wasn't able to tell me what version of bios he was running because he didn't have that machine any more.

But I did turn up a new possibility. When I do and lshw the first thing that pops up is my machines host name out of the /etc/hosts file. Right under that is a hardware description. Under which it's got my laptop listed as a Notebook. If I was to edit the file that lshw reads that info from and have it reflect that it's a Tablet PC/Notebook do you think that would help? I'm stretching here...

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-25
Hi bjforesthowell,

The bios has to be out there on the web somewhere.  Try to emulate the Fujitsu syntax as close as possible when doing a google search, maybe with * where you're guessing?

I don't see how it could hurt to try.

Maybe spend some more time reading the evtouch install resources.  Maybe there is a problem with how evtouch installed on your system.  Also there could be a problem with xorg.conf.  The fact that the bios doesn't switch between touch and tablet may be because it recognizes it's on a touch with no ablet available.  Did you get the impression that was possible from the tech support guy.  It seems like touch would be the default anyway.

As you notice, I'm joining you in your desperation.

---

### Post by bjforesthowell on 2009-01-28
So after a couple of days of some pretty intense research this is what I turned up..... Tech support as I'm sure you already know is useless. They won't give me an older version of BIOS. And I can't seem to find one on the web. One of the guys that I work with has been looking for me as well. The Fujitsu U810 version 1.07, and the U1010 versions of BIOS are the same exact thing. I've tried to load them both. No dice. I also dug this up..... Apparently someone else has been able to get this thing up and on line, but with an older version of BIOS, and Hardy Heron. 

[http://exain.wordpress.com/2008/10/22/howto-fujitsu-u1010-u810-umpc-and-ubuntu-linux-804-hardy-heron/](http://exain.wordpress.com/2008/10/22/howto-fujitsu-u1010-u810-umpc-and-ubuntu-linux-804-hardy-heron/)

The final word from Fujisu Tech support is this....

A.) Remove my CMOS battery in order to try to set everything back to
    factory default. Which is only going to reset my BIOS config.

B.) Head to a Korean Fujitsu support center and have them re-flash
    the BIOS to an older version. They won't email me one.

So I'm going to email some of the developers that wrote lshw in order to find out where it reads whether or not it's a Portable Computer, Tablet PC, or Touch Panel. I don't know if it's a file, or something that it gets from the Kernel, but it's got to be a field that I can edit in order for Ubuntu to recognize that this thing's got a touch screen.

root@bhowell-laptop:/home/bhowell# lshw | more

bhowell-laptop            

    description: Portable Computer

    product: Latitude D420

    vendor: Dell Inc.

    serial: 7XZQ2D1

    width: 32 bits

    capabilities: smbios-2.4 dmi-2.4

Anything I try to look up about xorg.conf is pretty much turning up everything we've already found. X and Y axis of the screen, defining the touch panel, telling the computer to use the evtouch driver. So on and so forth. So back to square one.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-28
Hi bjforesthowell,

Good luck!  I'll keep an eye open for you.

Could you find someone selling a U810 or U1010 and ask them if they have the bios.  Maybe offer $5 or something?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-01-28
Hi again bjforesthowell,

OK, first the good news, I found 1.05 and 1.04 for you.  The bad news, they're probably in Korean.

The link is at a google translated Chinese web page.  The google search terms I used were:  Fujitsu Lifebook U1010 V1.05 (as close to the format at the fujitsu site I could get).

[http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=zh-TW&u=http://www17.discuss.com.hk/archiver/%3Ftid-5191651.html&sa=X&oi=translate&resnum=9&ct=result&prev=/search%3Fq%3DFujitsu%2BLifebook%2BU1010%2BV1.05%26hl%3Den%26lr%3D%26client%3Dfirefox-a%26rls%3Dcom.ubuntu:en-US:unofficial%26sa%3DG%26as_qdr%3Dall]("http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=zh-TW&u=http://www17.discuss.com.hk/archiver/%3Ftid-5191651.html&sa=X&oi=translate&resnum=9&ct=result&prev=/search%3Fq%3DFujitsu%2BLifebook%2BU1010%2BV1.05%26hl%3Den%26lr%3D%26client%3Dfirefox-a%26rls%3Dcom.ubuntu:en-US:unofficial%26sa%3DG%26as_qdr%3Dall")

The post with the link to the Korean site is by sas90850 2007-9-2.  It's one of the url's that just has a download box pop up.  So V1.05 is here:

[ http://kr.fujitsu.com/fkl / servle ... = 3 & browserver = 1"]http://kr.fujitsu.com/fkl/servlet/Download/DownloadFile?filename=L_U1010_BIOS_V105.exe&filepath=downloadFile/notebook/20070803160236940/&downkind=3&browserver=1] http://kr.fujitsu.com/fkl / servle ... = 3 & browserver = 1]("http://kr.fujitsu.com/fkl/servlet/Download/DownloadFile?filename=L_U1010_BIOS_V105.exe&filepath=downloadFile/notebook/20070803160236940/&downkind=3&browserver=1)

It's sitting on my desktop.  I'm not sure how much good it will do you.  The forum won't let me upload it, since it is an executable (.exe).  You'll have to download it yourself if you want it.

Edit:  The file format is- "L_U1010_BIOS_V105.exe".  Googling that listed 4 sites in Japanese or Chinese or Korean!  Oops!  I forgot you were in Korea!
Edit:  Sorry 1.04 was an empty file.  Also on second look it's bothering me that 1.05 seems a lot smaller than 1.07 on the Fujitsu site.

---

### Post by bjforesthowell on 2009-01-28
I'm going to try to download them right now!

---

