---
title: "11.04 Busybox Error As well As HP blu ray player"
date: 2011-06-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by JonFarz on 2011-06-08
Hello My name is jon and I have been using ubuntu on and off for about a year.  In my opinion a new user still.  But here is my problem I have a Hp Pavilion Elite 410f and when I boot up the thing with 11.04 installed I get a Busybox Error 1.17.1 (inframs) screen and I have to type exit in order for the computer to boot.  My second problem is, my blu ray drive isn't being detected by the bootloader seeing as I had my computer dual booted before and the windows partition the bluray computer would work due to the fact I used easybcd to install the windows bootloader back on but than I couldn't find my ubuntu partition.  But now that I have completely swiched over grub doesn't even see it which is what makes me think its a boot loader problem.  This is all the information I have but If more is needed Ill do whatever to fix this problem.

Thanks

---

### Post by JonFarz on 2011-06-09
SuperMulti DVD Burner with LightScribe Technology & Blu-ray player

*-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       product: RT3090 Wireless 802.11n 1T/1R PCIe
       vendor: Ralink corp.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 00
       serial: 1c:65:9d:21:98:6d
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=rt2800pci driverversion=2.6.38-8-generic firmware=0.11 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
       resources: irq:17 memory:feaf0000-feafffff
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 05
       serial: d4:85:64:11:94:23
       size: 100Mbit/s
       capacity: 100Mbit/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=full ip=10.0.1.19 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=MII speed=100Mbit/s
       resources: irq:43 ioport:e800(size=256) memory:febff000-febfffff memory:fdffc000-fdffffff

---

### Post by JonFarz on 2011-06-11
Fixed the wireless card by this 

```
 sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf 
```

Added at the end of the text file blacklist rt2800pci and saved. WORKS! now the blu ray player I don't understand if someone would please respond I'd greatly appreciate it

---

