---
title: "[20.04.2] Sound Issues"
date: 2021-03-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Graham1 on 2021-03-12
Hi All

I'm having issues with my headphones in that they are constantly crackling or hissing (even without playing anything) on my main desktop computer. I have tried both the front and back audio sockets with the same results. I have even tried it on my 18.04.5 build (desktop) which did the same. This made me think it was the headphones, so I purchased another pair earlier today but the same problem ???. Oddly, playing on my MP3 player and laptop, the audio is fine (no hissing or crackling). I'm really confused as to what is causing this. The laptop is running Linux Mint 20.1 (xfce) with a recent kernel (5.11.5). Could that be the reason why I'm not hearing the crackling or hissing? Anyone else come across this issue before?

:)

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2021-03-12
Moved to MINT as the more appropriate forum.

---

### Post by Graham1 on 2021-03-13
Hi DuckHook

The issue occurs on both 20.04.2 and 18.04.5 (both Ubuntu desktops). The problem doesn't occur on Linux Mint (laptop). Apologies for not making that clearer in my original post. I have edited my original post to make things more clearer.

:)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2021-03-13
> **Graham1 said:**
> Hi DuckHook

The issue occurs on both 20.04.2 and 18.04.5 (both Ubuntu desktops). The problem doesn't occur on Linux Mint (laptop). Apologies for not making that clearer in my original post. I have edited my original post to make things more clearer.

:)

@Graham1, thanks for the clarification. I've moved your thread back into the Ubuntu Official Flavours area, specifically to the Hardware section. I vaguely remember similar issues being reported years ago with Intel chipsets. I myself came across something similar a few days ago with a recently purchased Intel NUC unit, where I got clicks and pops in Kubuntu using the audio jack plugged into a sound unit, but no problem in Ubuntu on another partition when I relied on sound from hdmi out. Too many variables to decide where the problem was here, and I haven't had the energy to investigate further yet, but I suggest you post more details of your desktop and laptop hardware, specifically the sound card/chipset for both. Also, are you using the audio jack in the laptop?

It could be that the important variable is the different hardware in the desktop and laptop, rather than it being an Ubuntu versus Mint thing.

---

### Post by Graham1 on 2021-03-13
Main Desktop:   Ubuntu 20.04.2. HDA Intel PCH (Realtek ALC891). Kernel: 5.8.0-44 - [COLOR="#FF0000"]headphone issues[/COLOR] (new headphones, same problem)
Game Desktop: Ubuntu 18.04.5. HDA Intel PCH (Realtek ALC233). Kernel: 5.4.0-66 - [COLOR="#FF8C00"]no problems[/COLOR] (previously had issues but currently working)
Test Laptop:      Linux Mint 20.1. HDA Intel (Conexant CX20585). Kernel: 5.11.3-051103 - [COLOR="#00FF00"]no problems[/COLOR]
Test Laptop:      Ubuntu 20.04.2. HDA Intel (SigmaTel STAC9200). Kernel: 5.8.0-44 - [COLOR="#00FF00"]no problems[/COLOR]

Yes, the audio jack in the laptop is being used. I've had this problem before (maybe a year or two ago) but it kind of sorted itself out. Also, on main desktop, problem seems worse on front audio socket.

Attached screenshots of AlsaMixer setup if that helps.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]288100[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]288101[/ATTACH]

:)

---

### Post by Graham1 on 2021-03-17
**_Main Desktop_**
Audio device: Intel Corporation 100 Series/C230 Series Chipset Family HD Audio Controller (rev 31)
Audio device: NVIDIA Corporation GP108 High Definition Audio Controller (rev a1)

---

### Post by Graham1 on 2021-03-21
Have noticed that when prompted for "Select Audio Source" after inserting the audio jack and selecting Headphones, "Headset Microphone - Built-in Audio" is selected for Input (headphones do not have a microphone). Changing the Input source to "Microphone - Built-in Audio" removes the crackling/hissing completely (silent) but audio is then played through the external speakers (monitor) and not the headphones (even though the headphones icon is shown in the volumn bar). Anyone have any ideas?

:)

[COLOR="#FF0000"]Crackling/hissing[/COLOR] (default after inserting audio jack, plays audio through headphones)
[ATTACH=CONFIG]288166[/ATTACH]

[COLOR="#00FF00"]No Crackling/hissing[/COLOR] (plays audio through speakers, not heaphones)
[ATTACH=CONFIG]288167[/ATTACH]

---

