---
title: "16.04.5 Monitor Upgrade (HDMI, no signal)"
date: 2018-08-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by GrimJack on 2018-08-16
Hi. Thanks for reading.

I have 16.04.5 working fine on a self-built desktop PC. I'm upgrading my monitor from a 21" ASUS to a 32" Acer, the EB321HQU.

The current monitor is connected to an old PNY GeForce GT 520 w/the proprietary NVIDIA driver via HDMI (1920x1080) and it's working fine. (It was connected via VGA, but I swapped that with a 4k-compatible HDMI cable.) When I swap the monitors, the HDMI output from the PC is not detected by the new monitor. It scans DVI, DP, HDMI, I get a No Signal message on the screen, then it goes into standby mode. Since the old monitor is fine, I know my system's output and the cable are OK. So why isn't the new monitor detecting the signal?

To test the new monitor on another device, to make sure it's working at all, I connected it to laptop running 14.04 using the same HDMI cable and it worked flawlessly. The new monitor mirrored what I saw on the laptop's screen. It even detected that the laptop was running at a lower resolution and stretched the image to fill the screen. Since this was the only way I could get any image on the new monitor, I went through all the monitor's settings and nothing appeared to need changing (like Input selection.).

In the last 48 hours I've verified that I'm making all the connections with everything unplugged from the electricity, then powering the monitor first, then the PC, and I've checked the revisions of HDMI on the video card and the monitor and they're both 1.4. I've done a lot of searching and found lots of people having problem with HDMI audio, but that isn't an issue for me because the old monitor has no speakers and I'm using external speakers or headphones.

All I'm trying to do is get the new monitor to display video, like the old one, and I can't figure out why the new monitor fails to detect a known good signal when I know it isn't defective.

Any thoughts or suggestions?

Thanks again for reading.

---

### Post by nerddex on 2018-08-16
> I'm having a similar issue but with a VGA cable from my laptop. When I plug it in the new display is detected but no signal comes up. 
xrandr
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1280 x 800, maximum 4096 x 4096
VGA-0 connected primary (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
   1024x768      60.00  
   800x600       60.32    56.25  
   848x480       60.00  
   640x480       59.94  
LVDS connected 1280x800+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 0mm x 0mm
   1280x800      59.97*+
   1280x720      59.97  
   1152x768      59.95  
   1024x768      59.95  
   800x600       59.96  
   848x480       59.94  
   720x480       59.94  
   640x480       59.94  
S-video disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)

Let me know if you find a fix and i'll do the same :)

-Edit: NM I just remembered this old laptop has a bad VGA port. GL.

---

### Post by GrimJack on 2018-08-17
I resolved the issue. It's my own fault but in case someone, sometime is having a similar issue this can be one more thing to check.

When I set up the old monitor years ago, I used the PulseAudio Volume Control to turn off the HDMI audio output. I know now I didn't have to do this, but at the time I was setting up a monitor with no speakers with HDMI and thought it was a useful thing to do. But having this off prevents the HDMI handshake from being successful and the monitor delivers a No Signal message. When I was testing the monitor, I turned it on without it being connected to anything and that produced a Cable Not Connected message. When connected to the PC, and getting No Signal, I realized the monitor knows its connected, but its not seeing the signal. That made me remember I'd turned the audio off in PAVC. Turning it back on, the new monitor worked the first time.

The only problem now is that I can't see the BIOS messages or the grub menu; the screen becomes active at the login screen. I'd assume this happens because only after it's booted is the HDMI connection active because that's when Pulse would be running. It might also be the video card's fault for not having it active by default, but it's going to be replaced soon anyway.

Marking as Solved.

---

