---
title: "10.10 Video display bug on NB305"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by odysseus2k7 on 2010-10-10
I recently upgraded my netbook from 10.04 to 10.10 and am noticing some display bugs.  Notably, the text associated with some icons is displayed as a vertical column of characters instead of nice, neat horizontal labels.  Is anyone else seeing this?  I'm attaching a screenshot for clarity.  

I'm currently using a Toshiba NB305-N410BL with 1GB RAM and 250 GB HDD.

Thanks,

---

### Post by pixnaps on 2010-10-10
Yes, same issue (amongst others) [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592474")!  I'd be curious if you share the other bugs I listed...

---

### Post by thndrkat on 2010-10-11
It looks like your upgrade didn't go as smoothly as it should have.  The new Unity UI has only the icons on the left column.  In the thread that pixnaps quoted they suggest a clean install as the definitive solution.  I have the same netbook, and had a similar issue a few weeks ago when upgrading to the 10.10 RC...ended up doing a clean install as I could not get the Unity UI to work correctly.

---

### Post by odysseus2k7 on 2010-10-11
Thanks, I thought it might have been a bad installation.  I have since discovered that my NB305 handles the desktop release perfectly well, with only minor issues regarding the wake/sleep functions.  I'm sure I can work around those, though.  I am no longer using the netbook release since the desktop version has all the functionality and far fewer hardware and video issues.

---

### Post by odysseus2k7 on 2010-10-13
Clean install took care of the problem.  Now my webcam isn't working in Cheese Photobooth.  Anyone else noticed this?  It's not a huge problem, since I don't use it much, but I'd like full functionality.

---

