---
title: "Fujitsu N3010 ACPI and my Xorg.conf"
date: 2008-12-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by infiner on 2008-12-27
I saw this post about the Fujitsu N3010 laptop and I couldn't help but respond, unfortunately that forum was closed so in response to: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=760691](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=760691)

The "Legacy USB" is what is hanging the computer, you can turn ACPI back on after disabling the "Legacy USB" in the bios.  NOTE: This disables any USB keyboards, yeah I know the keyboard likely does not work, but, after the Ubuntu boot the keyboard should work with "Legacy USB" turned off, as Ubuntu detects ACPI, so you can toggle this setting if you really need it for installing operating systems etc..

If you are reading this, consider yourself lucky for one thing, for another PRINT THIS OUT AND SAVE IN SEVERAL SAFE PLACES ELECTRONICALLY. If the screen ever goes black, and it likely will, get out a flashlight and look closely, it's the backlight that is out, it may not be broken, the contrast may have defaulted to zero.  You will be able to see but it will be very hard, maybe outside in daytime would work best.

With the weird keyboard configuration being the only way to control the brightness, the only way to turn it back up, is with the default factory Fujitsu Windows XP install recovery disk, sigh.  There may be another way to do it somewhere but I haven't found it, I intend to make a keyboard layout for linux and Ubuntu if possible.  

Also, not sure if you are very technical, but heat sink compound and cleaning of the heat sink will extend the time the laptop stays on, as some versions overheat.  The laptop can be totally taken apart with a guitar pick and a screwdriver. (wear soft cotton gloves if working on monitor)

My xorg.conf file that works with 3d apps rather well, tested with Blender and Second Life (all settings down) with good results for a laptop this old.

This may very well likely work for all flavors of linux with the proper ATI driver installed (I used the ATI documentation to get some of these values)

I installed the ATI hardware drivers prior to using this via the standard method.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
# 
#  Also the following documentation was read extensively prior:
#
#  [http://xorg.freedesktop.org/wiki/radeon](http://xorg.freedesktop.org/wiki/radeon)
#
#  for the Fujitsu N3010 Laptop by infiner
# 
#  If no xorg.conf exists open terminal:
#
#  sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
#  gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
#

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Radeon 9000 RV250"
	Driver		"ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"

	# Option "NoAccel" "off"
	Option 		"Dac6Bit" 
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"	"true"
	Option		"GARTSize"	"64"
	# Option 		"UseFBDev"
        Option 		"AGPMode" "4"
        Option 		"AGPFastWrite"
	Option 		"BusType" "AGP"
	# Option 	"DDCMode"
        # Option 		"DisplayPriority" "AUTO"
        Option 		"DisplayPriority" "BIOS"
	# Option 		"MonitorLayout" "LVDS"
	# Option 		"PanelSize" "1400x1050"
	Option 		"EnablePageFlip"
	
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	# Virtual		1400 1050
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"dbe"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by infiner on 2009-01-04
Update on Fujitsu N3010 and Ubuntu:

NOTE: Visual effects should be disabled for this old clunky laptop
      System-> appearance -> visual effects -> NONE

After much searching I found the tool to turn on/off the built in laptop display's LCD backlight it is in Synaptic package manager it is called radeontool and it may need to have the other sources in Synaptic enabled for it to be installed, can't remember, or could always "sudo apt-get install radeontool" etc...

After installing I issued the following at the command prompt to test turning my LCD backlight on and off:

infiner@ubuntu:~$ sudo radeontool light on
infiner@ubuntu:~$ sudo radeontool light off


This produced no results for my backlight... sigh.. so to make sure that it is the backlight and not the radeontool I did the following, which is dangerous, as I don't know what could happen if you don't do it exactly how I did it.

I turned the external monitor ON even though it was already turned on, because I knew that turning it OFF would be a real pain to re-type the command if there was a problem.

infiner@ubuntu:~$ sudo radeontool dac on
infiner@ubuntu:~$ sudo radeontool dac on

Now all you have to do is hit the up arrow key once or twice to check that the terminal has it in the cache, so when the monitor blacks out, you only need to hit the arrow key up once and hit return to get the monitor back on.

WARNING the following command will turn external monitor output off:

infiner@ubuntu:~$ sudo radeontool dac off

...and indeed the radeontool turned my external monitor off

infiner@ubuntu:~$ sudo radeontool dac on

...turned the monitor back on.

infiner@ubuntu:~$ sudo radeontool light on

...still nothing... [expletives deleted]:confused:](*,)

Should I have a burial for my Fujitsu? :-({|=

No way!

Ok so now I guess I need to take the laptop apart very carefully once again and try not to break anything.  I may need to try to fix the backlight as described over here: 

[http://www.inventgeek.com/Projects/BacklightFix/Page1.aspx](http://www.inventgeek.com/Projects/BacklightFix/Page1.aspx)

I guess now is where the fun really begins, sigh. 

I am also suspect that updating the BIOS may not be a good idea on this laptop, as the battery stopped charging after updating it to BIOS version n 1.04, of course I may have plugged something in wrong while opening it due to my own stupidity, oh well, guess Fujitsu wants to trick me into another laptop, hahah no way!

All right, I totally forgot something.  This laptop uses Fujitsu's proprietary fuj02b1 chipset to control the lcd brightness and some other things in a non-standard, unsupported way, so yeah I'm pretty much fubar-ed at this point, but still not going to fill the landfill with more lead and mercury and kill more lil fishies with my n3010, (please don't throw ANY computer parts in the garbage, ever) I'm going to fix the damn thing.  

I found some source code somewhere while searching for Fujitsu acpi, if I can get the code to work I'll post it but other than that I'm looking for a way to light this thing up directly, via a direct power supply to the backlight either homebrew style or through a wall wart, I will see. :P

---

