---
title: "ubuntu 8.04 problem with Geforce 8600 gt on XPS M1530"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by 4minab on 2008-04-27
ubuntu 8.04 problem with Geforce 8600 gt on XPS M1530

i install new ubuntu 8.04 64bit

and i have problem with my Video Card

 

when i install driver ([http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_171.06.01.html]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_171.06.01.html")) 

after reboot Gdm , my screen go WITHE , i tryed many ways :mansad:

what is the Problem and solution ?

please Help me !

---

### Post by 4minab on 2008-04-27
?????????????!!!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by Separ on 2008-04-27
Have you tried using the drivers that are in the repositories/restricted drivers manager? I have an 8400GS and the repository drivers work really well for me.

---

### Post by 4minab on 2008-04-27
please tell me more !
i am a beginner ubuntu user

---

### Post by Separ on 2008-04-27
Go to the System menu, then Administration and then Hardware Drivers.

There should be an nvidia one in there, if it isn't ticked, tick the box.

Could you also post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file contents please?

---

### Post by Separ on 2008-04-27
If that doesn't work, I suggest that you check out [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=301499]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=301499") For more info on how to properly install the driver. I would not recommend using Envy as there seems to be a lot of problems with it.

---

### Post by 4minab on 2008-04-28
i tested this ways ,
installing with Envy , my screen go Withe again :((

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-04-28
You are making it more difficult than it really is. Why are you trying to install the nVidia driver manually? Ubuntu 8.04 already includes a very new nVidia driver that works well with the 8600M GT. You don't need Envy to install the driver.

After installing Ubuntu, open a terminal window and enter:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
Then, go to System / Administration / Hardware Drivers. You'll see that there's a restricted nVidia driver available, but it's not enabled. Enable it, let it install, reboot, and it works.

---

### Post by tayroni on 2008-04-28
You need to install nvidia-glx-new

to do so, add these lines to your /etc/apt/sources.list

deb [http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) hardy main restricted universe multiverse
deb [http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://br.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) hardy-updates main restricted universe multiverse

and

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new

Now, add these lines to your /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

blacklist nvidia
blacklist nvidia-legacy

Open /etc/X11/xorg.conf and add these lines to the very end of file

Section "Extensions"
         Option         "Composite"
EndSection

and these lines to the Section "Device" of xorg.conf

        Option          "RenderAccel"               "True"
        Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"     "True"
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"         "True"

right above the line "EndSection"

Now reboot.

One advice: dont use Envy and another tools that Ubuntu don't support. These tools only mess your S.O. installation.

---

### Post by 4minab on 2008-04-30
my xorg.conf content is :

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 8 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen		"1280x800"
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1280x800"
	Horizsync	31.5-50.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0	-	65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	800
		Modes		"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 8 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" #  
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" #  
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by 4minab on 2008-04-30
i install my device and work good , but my scrren work eith LOW Graphic resolution 800x600 
what is the problem?

---

### Post by snotface on 2008-04-30
> **4minab said:**
> i install my device and work good , but my scrren work eith LOW Graphic resolution 800x600 
what is the problem?

I am seeing similar behavior on a Vostro 1500 with an nVidia 8600M GT running 64 bit 8.04.  

I have tried both NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-173.08-pkg2 & 
NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-100.14.19-pkg2 as listed in the bug report.  Both drivers got past the white screen, but my screen and 8600M GT were not detected.

The hardware drivers shows my nvidia graphics driver enabled, but not in use.

I uninstalled the previous nvidia-glx-new drivers before installing the beta drivers.

Here's my xorg config after installing the beta drivers:
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:17 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Thanks for all the help guys!

Also, does this only affect the 64 bit version?  If so, I may just jump down to 32 bit to avoid this hassle.

---

### Post by tayroni on 2008-04-30
Your system goes into LowRes mode because you don't blacklisted the nvidia and nvidia-legacy modules on /etc/modprobe/blacklist

I repeat: you need th nvidia-glx-new package/module, but it conflicts with nvidia one

Please, read again my previous post and do *exactly* as I saw.

---

### Post by snotface on 2008-04-30
> **tayroni said:**
> Your system goes into LowRes mode because you don't blacklisted the nvidia and nvidia-legacy modules on /etc/modprobe/blacklist

I repeat: you need th nvidia-glx-new package/module, but it conflicts with nvidia one

Please, read again my previous post and do *exactly* as I saw.

Tayroni, thanks for the response.  I just tried it again using the steps in your previous post, but now the screen is cut in half and it still is not detecting the video card or screen.  Any thoughts?

I'm going to download and try the Dell remastered image tonight to see if that works any better.

---

### Post by tayroni on 2008-04-30
The nvidia module is loading on boot? You can see any logo from nvidia?

I'm really impressed because that package works well for me and the version of module/driver is 169.12, just the version recommended on nvidia's site to geforce 8600gt.

You use metamodes or some complicated stuff? Can you try to comment any metamode lines on xorg?

Another questions: Maybe the problem can be your screen. How is your screen and the correct resolution?

---

### Post by snotface on 2008-04-30
> **tayroni said:**
> The nvidia module is loading on boot? You can see any logo from nvidia?

I'm really impressed because that package works well for me and the version of module/driver is 169.12, just the version recommended on nvidia's site to geforce 8600gt.

You use metamodes or some complicated stuff? Can you try to comment any metamode lines on xorg?

Another questions: Maybe the problem can be your screen. How is your screen and the correct resolution?

Are you running the 8600GT or the 8600M GT?  I'm not sure of the difference, but I believe they have different drivers for the M/Go cards.

After I install the beta drivers and reboot, my screen flashes with some green lines and then shows the Ubuntu splash screen.  During the driver installation, it warns me that there was no precompiled kernel found.  Is that normal?

My resolution is set at 1280x720, but is only allowed up to 800x600 after the reboot.

It really sounds like I don't have the nvidia module even loading during boot.  I did a quick search, but didn't find anything that seemed relevant.  I'm also new to this stuff. :)  I'll mess around with it a little later tonight.  Let me know if you have anything I can try!  

Thanks!

---

### Post by papuaq on 2008-05-01
Even same problem faced by me.
I am using Dell xps 1530 with Nvidia GeForce 8600M GT 256 Mb graphic card.
The graphic card is working fine with Ubuntu 7.10. But in case of hardy, its not automatically detecting the restricted driver. On manually installing the driver, after reboot, it's giving white screen.
I have also installed the driver after downloading the driver from the nvidia site. ie NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.12-pkg1.run
Still the same problem. White screen. I have also copied the the xorg.conf file of my ubuntu 7.10 to my hardy. no success. :(

---

### Post by 4minab on 2008-05-01
Not sure how to fix this, but I guess you can change your xorg.conf into vesa, which should be able to bring the gdm back to normal, and then you may try to install the Nvidia driver again, or install the newer driver.

---

### Post by papuaq on 2008-05-01
first i tried through the system->administration->Restricted drivers
failed.
then i downloaded NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.12-pkg1.run this from there site.
failed.
then i tried the steps described in the following link
[http://www.funnestra.org/ubuntu/hardy/#nvidia-driver](http://www.funnestra.org/ubuntu/hardy/#nvidia-driver)
failed
then i installed EnvyNG.
installed 169.12
then 96.43.05
then 71.86.04 Nvidia drivers. but failed.
The final out come after complition of each step is white screen.
I also replaced the xorg.conf file of my ubuntu 7.10(In which the Nvidia driver is working fine) to the the hardy xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by xtracool_protik on 2008-05-12
Not helping - I've 8400GS

---

### Post by Alejandro Castanaza on 2008-05-13
Hi.
I have a similar problem, but with a HP Pavilion slimline 3320la, which has an nvidia geforce 7100/nforce 630.
I installed ubuntu 8.04 and it showed a horrible 800x600 screen resolution, no more, no acceleration.
I managed to get a more decent resolution, 1280x1024, but since my screen is widescreen, i want it to get the recommended resolution, 1680x1050, and acceleration.
The restricted drivers dialog shows the nvidia restricted driver, enabled, but says "Not in use", with a red circle.
I found in the gnome screen settings it is used as a generic vesa card. I disabled, and then, reenabled the restricted nvidia driver, rebooted each time, but still it does not detect the nvidia card.
The lpsi | grep nvidia command shows many lines, so I understand the card it is detected as nvidia geforce 7100 but still does not work.
I even installed the nvidia 169.12 package (as described in ubuntu documentation, titled RestrictedDrivers/NVIDIAOfficial), compiled nvidia modules,showed no errors, when rebooted still no display. (X tried 3 times to start, and then ubuntu showed a 'low resolution' dialog).

This is my one complain with ubuntu, since everything else seems to work perfectly.

---

### Post by Alejandro Castanaza on 2008-05-14
Hi again!
Last night I solved my problem!
You can read it here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4957179#post4957179](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4957179#post4957179)
Maybe it can work for you.

Thank you.

---

### Post by Kinetica on 2008-05-23
I've had a similar problem with my 8600GT on a 64bit upgrade, and whilst I've had some success with some of the solutions posted here in this thread and other places in this forum, non of them allow me to use the restricted hardware to "enable" my driver, and use the advanced desktop effects, without regressing to the low-res problem a lot of people seem to experience. Does anyone know what the "enable" checkbox actually does, and why it causes these problems? (for me at least)?

---

### Post by JBUK79 on 2008-06-23
I've also tried every suggestion I can find on here with no luck. Originally I was getting the "white screen" problem when enabling the advanced driver, but now I get the "low res" problem instead.

For now I've had to disable the driver which has put me back to my correct resolution at least. It's a shame as it's the only thing stopping me from removing Vista from the laptop and fully switching to Ubuntu  :frown:

---

