---
title: "Hammerhead XRT Tablet"
date: 2008-05-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Anolis on 2008-05-10
I recently purchased a Hammerhead XRT tablet pc off of eBay, it's a great computer and would be flawless.. IF i could get the stylus to work as a mouse like it is supposed to. and an OSK to pop up at the login window.. I don't really know much about this side of linux (input devices and hardware) and need help getting it setup

I really don't wanna have to go to Windows XP tablet edition if i don't absolutely have to.

Maybe there is another linux distro that is geared more towards tablet pc's? if so i would like to know about it

thanks in advance...

--Anolis

---

### Post by CAsurfer on 2008-05-10
If you're lucky, you can get pen input to work by simply uncommenting 3 lines in "Section "ServerLayout"" in /etc/X11/xorg.conf. They should be pretty easy to identify.

---

### Post by Anolis on 2008-05-10
nope.. there are no lines i can uncomment.. 

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```

the touchpad is the device that is currently being recognized by ubuntu because the harddrive is in an inspiron 1000 notebook..

---

### Post by CAsurfer on 2008-05-15
If your tablet has a wacom digitizer, you might find my xorg.conf of use (everything works for me).

Also, I have the packages "wacom-tools" and "xserver-xorg-input-wacom" installed.

```

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
	Option		"SHMConfig" 	"true"
	Option          "RightEdge"     	"5900"
 	Option		"VertTwoFingerScroll"   "True"
	Option		"HorizTwoFingerScroll"  "True"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
	Option 		"Button2"	"3"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-70
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
		InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
		InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
		InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by TheAnalogKid on 2008-05-28
Thank you for posting this! It worked flawlessly...

---

### Post by ra0ultortugas on 2008-06-07
Hi:

I have a Hammerhead XRT I want to convert to Ubuntu. I am starting from scratch. 

Have you installed 8.04? I wanted to put the OS completely on a compact flash card and reserve the drive for programs and data. Is that possible?

Will the unit recognize and download Wacom tablet drivers?

Is there any handwriting recognition software available in Linux.

I would really like to get this unit functional in the Linux environment. 

Thanks for any help and advice. 

joe

---

### Post by MRutley on 2008-06-19
I once had ubuntu 7.10 installed on my Hammerhead XRT, and after some finagling with xorg.conf and a few other things, I had almost full tablet functionality.  I was forced to go back to windows due to the requirement to run a particular software program for work (ugh).  I'm now in the process of formatting my hard drive and installing 8.04.  The problems I had before were the following:

Stylus support - had to change xorg.conf
Sound support - had to edit one of the mixer programs, can't remember which)
USB WIFI support - Could never get that to work, however, I think I  had the wrong type of USB WIFI adapter (a D-Link).
Backlight support - I couldn't get the computer to change the level of the back light.

It will be interesting to see if 8.10 has rectified some of these issues, although I doubt it.  Anyway, I'll do my research and let you know what I have to do to get around some of these problems as I go through them.

Cheers
Mark

---

### Post by MRutley on 2008-06-20
Further to my previous post:

Sound - Worked out of the box!  Yay Hardy Heron!:-D

Stylus - still had to modify the xorg.conf file in terminal and appending the "stylus", "eraser", and "curser" sections of CASurfer xorg.conf file (also remembering to put in the relevant stuff under Section "ServerLayout" that refers to stylus, eraser and curser).

Some graphical glitches occur at start-up.  Screen is only half drawn. Problem rectifies when login screen starts.

Next steps in the process:
Install cellwriter for its handwriting recognition.
Have OSK in login screen at startup and after screensaver.
Enable dynamic switching from landscape to portrait and back with xrandr.
WiFi.
Backlight.

Mark

---

### Post by MRutley on 2008-06-21
Okay, now have cellwriter installed and working in both the login screen and as the standard onscreen keyboard (use the Add/Remove applications program under the Applications menu).  To activate it under 8.04 Hardy on the login screen do the following:
[LIST=1]
[*]Open System/Assistive Technologies
[*]Enable "Enable assistive technologies"
[*]Enable "Password dialogues as normal windows"
[*]Click "accesible login"
[*]Under "Local" tab, ensure Style is set to Plain.  Ensure "Set position of the window:" is enabled and the x and y coordinates are 0 (this puts the login screen in the upper left corner)
[*]Under "Accessibility" tab, ensure "Enable Accesible Login" is enabled.
[*]Close both screens
[*]Open a terminal and type: sudo nano /etc/gdm/Init/Default (note make a backup before you change this file).
[*]Input your root password
[*]scroll to the end of the file.  It should say:
fi
exit 0

Modify it to read:
fi
exec cellwriter --keyboard-only &
exit 0
[*] Save the file as Default (press ctrl X and follow prompts).
[*] Reboot.  You should get to a login screen with Cellwriter in keyboard mode in lower right corner.
[/LIST]

So now I have almost full Tablet PC Slate functionality using Ubuntu 8.04.  Pretty good in my opinion!  No more windows!

Now all that's left to do is get the backlight brightness control working.  I can't seem to find anything pointing to a backlight control.  The Hammerhead has a Silicon Motion LynxEM+ SM712 video chip in it, which is supposed to support ACPI power management.  However, there does not appear to be a backlight option.  The Brightness Applet doesn't work either, but I think it's because it's not pointing at anything.  Will need to do more research on this.

Mark

---

### Post by ra0ultortugas on 2008-06-21
Hey:

Your input, guys, has been really helpful. You must have more than 250 meg memory to be able to run anything later than 6.10 right?
That's my problem.

I understand the memory card is standard and could take 512 meg
but I don't know how to crack the case (or maybe don't want to.)

I can't find a source for cellwriter. The link I used was dead. 
Can you point me?

Thanks

---

### Post by ra0ultortugas on 2008-06-22
Found a good link for Cellwriter:

[http://linux.softpedia.com/get/Desktop-Environment/Tools/CellWriter-29955.shtml](http://linux.softpedia.com/get/Desktop-Environment/Tools/CellWriter-29955.shtml)

Still confused about using 8.04 with my 256 meg memory limitation.

I would try to upgrade the memory if someone can tell me how to crack the case. 

Thanks

---

### Post by 1branchonthevine on 2009-12-22
how to open the WalkAbout case...
pull out one of the rods (top or bottom). I used a drillbit on low torque drill setting, so that once slightly larger bit locked (got stuck) into the shaft hole, the torque clutch on the drill stopped the bit from going any further or breaking the bit. Once drill bit was locked into shaft hole, I pulled the bit outward and shaft came out. Only one of the two shafts needs to be removed. You could also find some reverse pliers that expand when you squeeze them and then place into shaft hole and pull. BTW, the shaft is square, so don't try to twist it out, just pull!

---

### Post by cobraun85 on 2011-09-16
The Hammerhead XRT uses TSharc chipset for touchscreen capabilities.  A native linux driver is available for this at [http://www.microchip.com/stellent/idcplg?IdcService=SS_GET_PAGE&nodeId=2830]("http://www.microchip.com/stellent/idcplg?IdcService=SS_GET_PAGE&nodeId=2830").  The site includes installation and configuration instructions as well.

I spent an entire day jumping through hoops trying to get the touchscreen to work before I found this driver.  It worked right away on a clean Lubuntu 10.04 installation.

---

### Post by lechevarria on 2012-04-05
Hi,
 
I have recently pouchased a second hand **Hammerhead XRT Tablet.** It came without any kind of drivers, I have managed to dwonload almost everything to make it properly works on Windows but HHBatteryCal in order toimplement advanced battery management. Battery loading is not working properly and tablet needs to be continuosly plugged. Cuold anyone helps me on this issue?
 
Thanks and regards.

---

### Post by 1branchonthevine on 2013-03-13
Battery charging/discharging works fine in linux or windows without HHbatterycal... I have found the middle cell in the battery packs is what dies, this is likely what is causing issues with your packs!

---

