---
title: "8.04 to 8.10 failure"
date: 2008-11-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jgw on 2008-11-20
I have been trying to install the latest and greatest and have failed miserably.  First I downloaded the iso file and copied it   to a cd.  Then, following the directions, I mounted it onto my machine and followed the directions and failed.  I then put in the cd and booted from int and told it to install - failed again.  I then did the update from the net.  That seemed to take and I shutdown the machine rather than doing an immediate restart and I now am looking at a bunch of purple-ish/brown vertical stripes of varying width.  

Then I decided to boot up with the 8.10 cd and try again.  It whirred and whizzed and then, finally, came up with a large square entitled "Install" with a mouse icon (circle with spinner that doesn't) and just hangs.  

Given all the stuff that I have already done, and the ensuing failures, I am tempted to simply reinstall 8.04 as there is really not much on the system that actually needs saving.  

Thoughts?

---

### Post by jgw on 2008-11-22
Ok - I have solved the problem.  I had an k8m800 micro am2 motherboard.  This board has an onboard nvidia display and 8.10 didn't like it one bit.  After two tries I, finally, put in another nvidia board (fx 5200 256mb) and I got the screen, at 640x480.  I then went to [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/ubuntu:intrepid#graphics_cards_and_displays](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/ubuntu:intrepid#graphics_cards_and_displays).  In that I found a sample xorg.conf which I copied to the clipboard.  I then went sudo gedit (going absolutely guts - not recommended) and replaced the existing with the clipboard model.  This didn't quite work so I went to [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-after-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-after-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html) where I found some monitor settings.  I then had to create a monitor section, in the file, and add the settings I found.  I then re-booted and suddenly I had a whole bunch of resolution choices.  

I am absolutely sure that I probably did this all wrong and there are better ways but this worked and I am a happy camper.  I would not suggest anybody do anything like this unless they are completely frustrated and quite willing to blow up their installation.  Just thought I would pass it on and wish anybody who does something like this good luck!

---

