---
title: "Inspiron 1720 with Ultrasharp LCD /  Display problem"
date: 2008-09-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by chimericidol on 2008-09-03
Hey guys, I have problem because I use Ubuntu 8.04 on my Inspiron 1720 with Ultrasharp 17¨ widescreen LCD wich comes with natural resolution 1920x1200. Now, I had Vista on it an it was beautifully smooth but on Ubuntu, even when I have managed to change the refreshing rate to 60MHz, the same as in Windows, I cant get rid of this strange horizontal lines that looks like problem with refreshing rate. Its visible the most in firefox while browsing or on some video web pages like vimeo when if I make it fullscreen for the video it slows down completely and the refreshing is terrible together with the sound. Even though there is the most obvious everywhere u can see it: on games, on 3d software. Please does any on know whats wrong?? 


This is the output from my xorg.conf:


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Thu Jun  5 09:26:53 UTC 2008

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LPL"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600M GT"
    Option         "DynamicTwinView" "False"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1200_60 +0+0"
EndSection

---

### Post by chimericidol on 2008-09-04
Hey plz, does any one has some ideas, ´couse its making me think of coming back to Windows, since I work with 3d aplications and its getting to annoying. The saddest things is that this is the ONLY problem I have with Ubuntu, the rest works perfectly. Btw, I am ussing the newest updated Hardy Heron.

---

### Post by kenden on 2008-09-04
Hi,

Have a look at this threads for general information:

HOWTO: change resolution/refresh rate in Xorg:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)

HOWTO: Get Dual Monitor Display Working - Ubuntu 8 / Hardy Heron:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=826717&highlight=wrong+screen+resolution](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=826717&highlight=wrong+screen+resolution)

The first thing you should do is backup the file xorg.conf
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup_date

Then you can try to automatically reconfigure it with:
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Then restart X by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Backspace to check if it works.

If it doesn't, try to manually configure xorg.conf.
A hidden tool can be useful for this:

In gnome, Right click on the Application menu, choose Edit Menu.
In Application > Other, enable Screens and Graphics.
You can use this tool to detect the horizontal and vertical refresh rate of your monitor.

Hope that helps!
kenden

---

### Post by chimericidol on 2008-09-05
Hey kenden, thank you so much for your reply but unfortunately I´ve tried all af this things and non of them work, I am afraid it is a problem with a drivers. 

Btw I was trying to check whats my monitors maximum refreshing rate but couldnt figure it out, how could I check it??

---

### Post by chimericidol on 2008-10-06
Plz, does any on has any idea? I dont know if its understood but the screen is the one form nootbook it is NOT an external one.

---

