---
title: "9.10 karmic Radeon HD3650"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lubberlick on 2009-11-05
I have searched several forums and tried dozens of methods to get this to work. Basically I have a Toshiba Laptop with a built in Radeon Mobility HD3650 Video card and would love to get 3D working.

I have tried installing the proprietary drivers from ati.com by both running the installer and building the .deb packages. I have tried installing the proprietary drivers from the repositories. No matter what I do when the system loads its just a black screen. I have successfully gotten it to run 3 or 4 times during my testing but once I reboot or shut down it will immediately stop working again. I am at a complete loss and willing to try anyone's suggestions.

---

### Post by Roger Bergling on 2009-11-05
Hi !
Samo problem here, with HP EliteBook 8530p ...

F-cking ATI.. 

You can solve your issue with diable of ACPI i the grub.cfg file.
ACPI=OFF

The the 3D effekt will work. but not very fast. Today I tried a HP 6930p with Intel HD400 . And that pc work with no problem at al. So When you choose ti buy a computer DON'T by ATI graphics !

// Roger B.

---

### Post by PeonDevelopments on 2009-11-05
Plug in your laptop to an external monitor and power it on.

Report whether your external monitor displays your desktop, or whether it too black screens.
I, for one, have found that an external works, but my laptop doesn't.
=/

---

### Post by lubberlick on 2009-11-05
Sorry it took me awhile to get back to this thread, I inevitably solved the issue and decided I was due for some much needed sleep. Ultimately my solution was like this.

First I purged all fglrx drivers by this method found in the ubuntu wiki

```
  sudo /usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh  # (if it exists)
  sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx*
  sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xorg-video-ati xserver-xorg-video-radeon 
  sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-ati
  sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri xserver-xorg-core
  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```I deleted /etc/X11/xorg.conf, then rebooted my computer to make sure everything was cleaned up. I then installed the proprietary drivers from the repositories. After I installed these drivers but BEFORE I rebooted my system I typed the following into the terminal.

```


   sudo aticonfig --initial -f
   sudo aticonfig --acpi-services=off


```Once my system came back up everything has been working great since. I also do not experience this "slow" performance in 3D people are talking about.

TL:DR Use the drivers from the repositories not the drivers from ATI.com... and make sure you aticonfig properly.

---

### Post by aleflocco on 2009-11-08
hi,

I've been finding a solution to this for a while, now I feel near the goal, but I miss a thing...

Sorry, but I'm really new to Ubuntu, so maybe my question will look quite stupid ;)

What do you mean exactly with " I then installed the proprietary drivers from the repositories."?
If you mean the "hardware driver" in system > administration, It gives me "no drivers available"...
If you mean the standard repositories, which one should I choose?
Last, maybe you mean official ATI drivers from their website... (catalyst 9.10 should be the last release).

Also... I have no /etc/X11/xorg.conf file... is it normal?

Thanks a lot
Ale

---

### Post by lubberlick on 2009-11-12
if you open up Synaptic Package Manager and do a search for FGLRX you will see Xorg-Driver-FGLRX. This is what i installed. If you do not have a xorg.conf that is fine, the aticonfig commands will create it for you

---

### Post by finez on 2009-11-15
I did what you said here. Actually it looked like "finally you found the answer!!!"... but it didn't work for me.
The only solution I've find is taking out 2 of the 4 gig of RAM the laptop comes with and it runs really smooth, even 3D acceleration (it doesn't slow down anything) but, you know, I paid for EVERYTHING this laptop has so I'd love it to work properly.

I don't know if your Toshiba has 4g or it's another model. 
Mine is a A350, this is, Core2 Duo processor, 4g RAM, the infamous ATI...

PS: Sorry for my English, I'm pretty sure it's all but correct.

---

### Post by finez on 2009-11-15
By the way, there is nothing in my xorg.conf about acpi services... I don't really know if it should be there.

---

### Post by aleflocco on 2009-11-15
I solved :)

I did a fresh Karmic install, did all the suggested updates, and followed all the stpes from Lubberlick.

But I had the well known slow windows resize problem, also solved with this:
[https://launchpad.net/~launchpad-weyland/+archive/xserver-nobackfill]("https://launchpad.net/%7Elaunchpad-weyland/+archive/xserver-nobackfill")

thanks a lot
Ale

PS: my configuration is HP elitebook 8530p, Intel T9400, ATI radeon HD 3650, 3 GB ram

---

### Post by manishsk on 2009-11-28
Looks like it worked for me too. I am able to log on 5 time successfully without any blank screen after installing the driver.

i think the acpi_services is the culprit.

Mine was fresh install and I was not having xorg.conf. I downloaded the driver from AMD/ATI website and installed the same. After installation I immediately gave the two command mentioned and then restarted. THinks worked so far.

No need to install the driver found in "Hardware Drivers" section which says tested by Ubuntu developers! :P :)

I hope it works for others. Using ubuntu/kubuntu 9.10 on Toshiba A305d.


Thanks lubberlick, good work!

---

### Post by lubberlick on 2009-11-29
I'm very grateful that I was able to help others out with the problem I was having. And I appreciate the positive responses. 

To the person who said they have to remove 2 gigs of system memory in order to get a stable boot, I struggle to believe this has anything to do with the ATI drivers. I would be more likely to believe you have some dysfunctional memory and would seek to repair that separately.

I apologize for the late responses to this thread. I am not tracking it and I am not a regular reader of these forums.

---

### Post by u.b.u.n.t.u on 2009-11-29
lubberlick there is a common theme with proprietary drivers and black screens upon reboot with the current version of Ubuntu 9.10. I suspect a bug(s) but there is no official comment at this time.

The compatibility issue remains unresolved to my knowledge. A new release of an ATI driver or a patch from Ubuntu may be what is needed.

---

### Post by biker3 on 2009-12-01
I've solved with the two recommended commands and changing the BIOS Graphics Aperture Size from 265 MB (max) to 64 MB.

*Gigabyte ATI Radeon HD 4650 AGP DDR2 1 GB (GV-R465D2-1GI)*

---

### Post by Roger Bergling on 2009-12-08
Finally I got this working.
Use the latest driver from ATI and do the acpi=off with aticonfig. Finally to get things fast add the repository for the x-server.. Great work..

---

### Post by Kilokahn on 2010-01-21
where's the Repository for ati 9.3 drivers?  im a noob so im tryin to make sence of this stuff.

---

### Post by Roger Carlssom on 2010-05-03
What about Lucid version of this new xserver ?!

---

