---
title: "Configuring video drivers: NVIDIA Corporation GF108GL [Quadro 600]"
date: 2013-04-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-03
Hello. I am trying to get Ubuntu working on a new machine. Currently, it boots but attempts to go into "low graphics mode". This seems to fail and it stops at a blank screen, but the machine is otherwise ok: I can get a TTY login or SSH in.

The card I am using is GF108GL [Quadro 600] (rev a1)

There is also a Tesla card installed for computation but I do not need to use it at the moment. The relevant lines of lspci are:
```
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GF108GL [Quadro 600] (rev a1)
03:00.1 Audio device: NVIDIA Corporation GF108 High Definition Audio Controller (rev a1)
04:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation Tesla C2075 (rev a1)
```

I have tried installing the driver recommended for 64 bit linux and this card on the NVidia website but it did not resolve the problem. Here is some more system information:

```
$ cat /etc/lsb-release
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=12.10
DISTRIB_CODENAME=quantal
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 12.10"
```

The NVIDIA configuration which doesn't work:

```
$ cat ./xorg.conf
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 310.44  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-07)  Wed Mar 27 15:56:20 PDT 2013

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

And the failsafe configuration which also doesn't work:

```

$ cat ./xorg.conf.failsafe 
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

I'm not really sure how to proceed -- I've come to terms with the fact that Ubuntu doesn't support all hardware configurations and that there may be no way to get graphics working, but how do I go about determining this / fixing the graphics?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-03
mrule; Hi !

What results in booting up from a liveCD in "try ubuntu" mode ?
Boot the liveCD;
At the purple splash screen (stick figure keyboard emblems at bottom of screen) -> hit any key ->
Language screen -> escape key to accept the default ->
Booting options screen -> f6 key (other options) -> arrow down to the preset option(s) -space or enter to accept- and then the escape key to exit; try "nomodeset" first and or with the other options next attempts. 
For other additions(later attempts) the boot options kernel boot line is now available, append any desired boot parameter to the end of the line.
Enter key to continue the boot process to the GUI desk top;

This for starters, further advise pending.[INDENT=3]
just try'n to help

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-04
Hi, I seem to have lost the live CD, and I'm having trouble making another one. The "Brasero" disk image burner application on my other Ubuntu machine won't start for some reason.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-04
Oh I have it working now ( for some reason Brasero won't start if it detects that another copy is already running, but the other copy had crashed and disappeared, leading to the appearance that Brasero was refusing to start for absolutely no reason) but the image of Ubuntu 12.10 is too large to put on CD, according to Brasero.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-04
So yeah, I can't make a live CD. Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2013-04-05
Live USB or Live DVD work just as well.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-08
Well DVD won't be possible but I might be able to find a USB thumb drive -- not today though. Actually .... I'll try using Windows to burn the liveCD.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-08
I tried to burn a disk image on Windows7 and it ALSO says that it is too large to fit on a CD. So I think that... the Ubuntu desktop AMD64 image might actually be too large? Or there is some mistake -- I am seeing it as about 63K larger than the 800M CD size limit. At any rate, I can't seem to burn a live CD using either windows or linux, I don't own a DVD burner or blank DVDs, and I don't at the moment own a memory stick. Or rather, the last memory stick I bought had some sort of issue where it couldn't be used to load Ubuntu for reasons which I never really understood. So, I'm having a lot of trouble making any sort of recovery CD or something similar. I know that it is possible to debug these things in place without a live CD, but that it will be harder and require more expertise.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-08
mrule; Hi !

OK, as you do not have a liveCD or an alternate available, let's see what we can do from the install.
Small steps to establish a working foundation;
When you boot up your system do you reach the grub menu with choices of which operating system to load ?
Yes -> With the latest ubuntu kernel highlighted press the "e" key for edit mode -> kernel boot parameters ->;
Arrow down to the line beginning with "linux /boot/vmlinuz-" and arrow across to the terms "quiet splash" and insert the term "nomodeset" -without the quotes-;
key combo ctl+x to continue the boot process.

What is your result ?
Further advise is pending .[INDENT=3]
just try'n to help

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
I am working on this now and the issue at the moment is that the grub menu is never displayed -- I'm trying to remember how to change that.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
I think grub hates my graphics card as well. But, since I can SSH in once it boots, I tried setting, in /etc/default/grub, : 

[FONT=Courier New]GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodset"[/FONT]

I'm not sure if this will do the same thing?

Update: machine no longer boots, I guess that wasn't it.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
Ok this is just weird, I borrowed a macbook to try to burn the Live CD and it ALSO won't burn it because it is too large -- what is going on here?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-09
mrule;
In order to see the grub menu;
Boot up and as soon as the bios screen clears, depress and hold the shift key, sometime you have to repeatedly hit the shift key. Bios may only give you a very small window in which the shift key gets recognized, and may have to try it several times to hit that window of time.
[INDENT=3]
hth

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
I was going to say that someone messed up when packaging the Ubuntu 12.10 64 bit live CD but based on the website it seems like Live CDs are no longer supported -- only DVD and USB. So, there will not be any live CD, ever. I'm very disappointed.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
Ok I can see the GRUB menu now, thanks, I see that the "nomodset" parameter already follows the "quiet splash" ( that is, "quiet splash nomodset" ) among other parameters. Now, booting stops at or after "loading initial ramdisk" and doesn't seem to continue.

---

### Post by ppjdee on 2013-04-09
> **mrule said:**
> I was going to say that someone messed up when packaging the Ubuntu 12.10 64 bit live CD but based on the website it seems like Live CDs are no longer supported -- only DVD and USB. So, there will not be any live CD, ever. I'm very disappointed.

I think CD's are only 700mb, DVD's are 4.7gig? So Ubuntu has grown to big for a standard CD.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
so there is no way I can burn a CD to help fix my broken installation?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-09
mrule;
Shheeeesshh// OK, as you can boot into the install via ssh, we can safely assume your install is good leaving us at looking at a graphics driver issue. I had hoped that the "nomodeset" option would allow us to get to the desk top.....

other issues:
LiveCD -> yeah to big to fit on a regular cd, use a DVD or USB.
Presently I also do not understand stopping --"stops at or after "loading initial ramdisk"; That stage is just loading the image into ram to make the initial ram file system... hummm got memory problems ????

Back to the issue at hand, graphics driver. Do you know what card you have ? -try some other boot options-

How old is this machine? Wondering if the processor supports newer technologies (pae and sse2).[INDENT=2]
not much help, still scramble'n
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
Ok well I was able to make a finnix CD so I have that at my disposal but it doesn't seem to boot up with any graphics so I'm not sure if it will be useful. I can only assume that I broke my GRUB configuration somehow and this is why I can't boot the machine anymore.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
Ok let me gather my thoughts -- Something is broken, I hope just the GRUB configuration, but maybe there are now memory problems. It seems unlikely but it is not impossible that there are other hardware issues here that are all all interacting.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
Alright, lets see. This is a newer machine -- I believe it was probably loaded with 12.04 and then upgraded to 12.10. The graphics never worked but in trying to fix them I lost even low graphics mode, and then I may or may nor have broken GRUB and/or created memory issues. 

So. Stopping after loading initial ramdisk -- if it were memory problems, how would I fix this? Some time ago, the BIOS complained of bad memory or something like that -- it specified one of the DIMM slots, and the error went away after I removed that module, but memory issues is something to keep in mind. The error no longer appears which leads me to believe the memory is OK but perhaps I should not trust that. 

The graphics cards: there are two of them. My understanding is that one is for graphics and the other is for computation. From doing lspci, back when the machine still turned on, this is what I saw:

03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GF108GL [Quadro 600] (rev a1)
04:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation Tesla C2075 (rev a1)

I can try removing the tesla card and see if that helps anything, although it would be good to get both of them working eventually.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
I've been trying to boot into older versions of the kernel from grub. Most of the time it hangs after printing "Loading initial ramdisk" but sometimes it prints out an error indicating that a panic has occurred. It is not always the same, for example, now it says:

PANIC: early exception 08 rip 246:10 error 81335492 cr2 0

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-09
mrule;
not much I can add for now,
I do not think making an edit via ssh to /etc/default/grub would mess things up. After you made the edit did you do:
```
sudo update-grub
``` to update the config files ?

At this point do you have ANY bootable operational disks, just to rule out any hardware problems ?

If you can boot up the ubuntu install and ssh into it, there are a few things we can look at to see what the graphic conditions are.

As an option, version 12.04 will fit onto a cd. How bout burning a 12.04 liveCD and see if it will boot ?( I favor LTS versions anyway, stability+longevity)[INDENT]
I do desire that you are up on 'buntu

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
I looked and I'm sorry I'm not sure how to find out if the processor supports the things you listed (pae and sse2)?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-09
mrule;

One thing at a time. With this many issues, by all means reduce things to simpler terms and if it is easy, remove one of the graphics cards.
Boot up with an older version, as you were running 12.04 prior, there is no issue with pae and sse2 requirements.

I am going to re-boot and check my gray matter retention on a memory test.

We just need to boot something !

back in a bit.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-09
Thanks ! I really appreciate your help.
I've burnt a 12.04 CD and it works fine, so that is good. 
Hopefully I'll be back tomorrow for more troubleshooting.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-09
mrule;

I am back and my gray matter has not failed me. Memory test is available from the liveCD !
Boot the liveCD as soon as the purple splash screen appears hit the shift key -> language screen -> escape key ->boot options screen;
Choose "test memory". Let it run for at least 3 passes and see how many errors are generated.

Great that we now have a boot disk !

If all is good at this point, we will see if we can boot up the liveCD to the "try ubuntu" mode.[INDENT=2]
maybe small step forward for man, and a leap forward for ubuntu ?
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-10
Hello and thanks again, I let memtest run today -- it only completed one pass, but there were no errors. I can boot the liveCD in "try ubuntu" mode without obvious problems. I will leave memtest running some more overnight.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-10
mrule;

That indeed is good news. Looking good to go !
We will pick this back up in the A.M. when the mem test has completed.
[INDENT=2]
mak'n progress

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
The memtest has completed 5 more passes without errors.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule; 
 Well, things looking better. The memory test good, no hardware problems, and able to boot up 12.04 to the desk top !
Ok, one other thing, how much memory( ram that is) do you presently have on board ?
Later versions of ubuntu have become resource hungry and need about a gig of ram.

Are we back now to the original issue of obtaining a compatible driver for the Nvidia Quadro card ?[INDENT=3]
scatter brained, regaining focus


[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
The machine has 32 gb of ram. We're not quite ready to get back to fixing the video drivers -- I still can't boot into the original install ( though I can do memtest from grub, so maybe / hopefully it is just a grub configuration issue? )

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
After following the steps in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099) grub seems happy and I can boot into my original install. Still, the system attempts to use low-graphics mode and fails, leaving just a blinking cursor. I can SSH into the machine again.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule;
Continuing merrily on our way; - drs305's tutorial is wonderful -

As you are now able to boot to the install desk top - degraded graphics- let's get an idea of of what the system has in mind:
To see your graphics card and info:
```

sudo lshw -C display
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
```
also, do you have the 3rd party software sources enabled (we may need to install proprietary drivers !) ?[INDENT]
we stroke'n


[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
I'm not sure how to check whether 3rd party sources are enabled over ssh, but the commands you requested:

```

$ sudo lshw -C display
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GF108GL [Quadro 600]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:24 memory:f6000000-f6ffffff memory:d8000000-dfffffff memory:e0000000-e1ffffff ioport:cc80(size=128) memory:f7e00000-f7e7ffff
  *-display
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Tesla C2075
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:04:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:30 memory:f5000000-f5ffffff memory:e8000000-efffffff memory:e2000000-e3ffffff ioport:bc80(size=128) memory:f4f00000-f4f7ffff


$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
07:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd. MGA G200EV [102b:0530]
	Subsystem: IBM Device [1014:0369]
0b:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme II BCM5709 Gigabit Ethernet [14e4:1639] (rev 20)
	Subsystem: IBM Device [1014:03a9]

```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule;
This:
$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
07:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Matrox Electronics Systems Ltd. MGA G200EV [102b:0530]
    Subsystem: IBM Device [1014:0369]

makes me back up and regroup; do not even know that it should load an Nvidia driver.( IBM is using a Nvidia driver ? find that hard to accept). I will do some research and see.

Nother way to see if 3rd party software is installable is to look at the control file directly.
```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list
```"partner" and "extras.ubuntu.com" repositories are available (location:end of file)[INDENT=2]
process' of learning

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
I don't know what that VGA thing is -- I've never noticed that. There are, physically, two NVIDIA cards in the machine which are visible on LSPCI, which I'd like to use if possible. 

cat /etc/apt/sources.list reveals that "quantal multiverse" sources are enabled but "lucid partner" is not -- actually, should that say "quantal partner"?

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
I'm sorry I may have made a mistake and ran the second command from the local machine -- let me check.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
yes, I am sorry, it is

```

$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation GF108GL [Quadro 600] [10de:0df8] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: NVIDIA Corporation Device [10de:0835]
	Kernel driver in use: nvidia
	Kernel modules: nvidia, nouveau, nvidiafb
--
04:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation Tesla C2075 [10de:1096] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: NVIDIA Corporation Device [10de:0910]
	Kernel driver in use: nvidia
	Kernel modules: nvidia, nouveau, nvidiafb

```

Apologies for being an unreliable user.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule;
Makes much more sense now. Lemme do some more head scratching, trying to get ya up on a single card with good graphics response. To be honest, I do not know that linux has a driver for those cards that will drive both of them at the same time. Lately a lot has been developed in that respect, but the last that I was aware of, Nvidia had developed nothing.[INDENT]
clear'n my registers

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
Yes, excellent -- that is just what I want to know. I can take out the tesla for now perhaps as I am not using it. 

If it helps, looking up either card on NVIDIA's website for 64 bit linux points to the 310.44 driver version -- which had lead me to hope that this driver would be able to run both cards, but perhaps it can only handle one at a time? It was this driver that I tried to install before everything went haywire. I followed this tutorial [ [http://falkvinge.net/2013/02/15/how-to-install-nvidia-drivers-in-ubuntu-12-10-quantal/](http://falkvinge.net/2013/02/15/how-to-install-nvidia-drivers-in-ubuntu-12-10-quantal/) ] which worked for the machine I am currently using, but not for the workstation.

edit: but "work" I mean that tutorial worked for getting the NVIDIA driver for a different older card ( actually the one that showed up on the erroneous lspci earlier in the thread )

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule;

That we can do... I have in mind to remove all the Nvidia files and install the open source drivers, as the open source drivers often perform better than the proprietary drivers, Then, if need be look at the alternatives. Looking to see if I think FOSS drivers will work.
[INDENT=2]
I'll be back


[/INDENT]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule;

Looking about, I can find very little complaints with the quadro 600, and highly recommended nouveau drivers with intell chips.
Let's proceed and purge Nvidia and install the nouveau driver.
First look and make sure the nouveau driver has not been blacklisted.
```
grep nouveau /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
``` As you know, no return is a good thing in this case.
and just in case we want to look later at Nvidia's config file:
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/Xorg.conf /etc/X11/old-Xorg.conf-nvidia
```
Here is a recipe which removes all old video drivers, and reinstalls nouveau:
```

  sudo nvidia-settings --uninstall
  sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia*
  sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xorg-video-nouveau xserver-xorg-video-nv
  sudo apt-get install nvidia-common
  sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-nouveau
  sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri xserver-xorg-core
  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Then reboot your system and when it comes up it will be running with nouveau.[INDENT=2]
all good for now ?

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
Thanks! I performed those steps with the following notes:

nouveau was blacklisted, so I commented out that line from /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
sudo nvidia-settings --uninstall does nothing: nvidia-settings says that there is no --unistall option

other commands completed without incident. 

the system is the same: it boots, falls into low graphics, but then stops with a blinking cursor. keyboard is also unresponsive and I can't move to a tty, but I can get in via ssh.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule;

I am UNpleasantly surprised. What in the world is going on with Xserver. No problem with remote, no workie local.
For starters again lets look at the card and what driver is loaded.
```

sudo lshw -C display
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
```
Nother thought, is there an option in bios to control which graphics card is active ? Can you in bios turn them off ?

And still looking -> when you get to the local console, can you login via a text login ? :
At the grub menu, "e" to edit ->boot parameters -> linux /boot/vmlinuz- and remove all after "ro" and insert the term "text" -without the quotes-;
Hopefully  you boot to a command line log in and still have an operational keyboard. Login with user name and will ask for password, again no response given back to the screen ( bet you have done this a thousand times !)
So far so good ?
terminal code:
```
 sudo service lightdm start
``` What results now ???[INDENT=2]
I just do not see the light

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
Thanks for the ongoing help.

To clarify, I can access the machine via SSH but I cannot xforward. 

```
$ sudo lshw -C display
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GF108GL [Quadro 600]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:24 memory:f6000000-f6ffffff memory:d8000000-dfffffff memory:e0000000-e1ffffff ioport:cc80(size=128) memory:f7e00000-f7e7ffff
  *-display
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Tesla C2075
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:04:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:30 memory:f5000000-f5ffffff memory:e8000000-efffffff memory:e2000000-e3ffffff ioport:bc80(size=128) memory:f4f00000-f4f7ffff

```
```
$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation GF108GL [Quadro 600] [10de:0df8] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: NVIDIA Corporation Device [10de:0835]
	Kernel driver in use: nvidia
	Kernel modules: nvidia, nouveau, nvidiafb
--
04:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation Tesla C2075 [10de:1096] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: NVIDIA Corporation Device [10de:0910]
	Kernel driver in use: nvidia
	Kernel modules: nvidia, nouveau, nvidiafb

```

When the machine starts, it will ask whether I want to run in low graphics / troubleshoot / etc. While this screen is up, I can move over to a TTY and everything works. However, if I say "run in low graphics" then it seems that X locks up and even the keyboard is no use.

When I type sudo service lightdm start, nothing much happens. I am taken back to the screen with messages from boot ( Starting .. this and that [ok] etc ). I can go back to the tty and it says "lightdm start/running, process ###" ( except of course it is not running )

In the Bios, I can select which card to use as the primary card for graphics. The quadro is selected at the moment, and this seems to work well enough to get text to the screen. I cannot disable the cards, but I could set the Tesla as the primary, or physically remove one of the cards.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
Huh so I guess it is still somehow using the nvidia drivers? Even though we tried to uninstall them? Perplexing.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
Hey! progress. 

Remember how nvidia-settings --uninstall didn't do anything? I went to the original .run file for the NVIDIA driver and called it with the --uninstall option. It removed the nvidia driver as well as nvidia-settings. So I guess that's maybe a little change in how NVIDIA configures itself. 

After I did this, I went through the purge and reinstall steps you listed. Start lightdm still does nothing, but startx did something interesting for once -- it brought me to a frozen screen with the ubuntu background, at the wrong resolution. We shall see what happens on reboot.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
Hmm, not as good as I had hoped. The machine still tries and fails to fall back to low graphics mode -- but at least the keyboard now continues to work so I can reliably get back to a tty.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
if I call startx from a tty it... well, it almost loads, although it does print "timeout in locking authority file /home/name/.Xauthority" first. Then, eventually, it gets stuck in a loop printing ".. No protocol specified"

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule;
I too was surprised to see that the Nvidia driver still loaded. Glad you had the forethought to think about alternately using the nvidia uninstaller//
I am awaitng your ReBoot.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
Curiously, sudo startx does almost kinda work -- a blank desktop and I can bring up root terminals. I.. don't know what this means.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule
 "startx" would start the desktop - now-a-days - IF the Xserver were running.
To start the Xserver in later releases do:
From the text login:
```
sudo service lightdm start
``` looking for any errors to point us in some direction.
May go back and try not setting kernel mode setting and see what results with the open source driver.
Do we now have nouveau driver loaded ?[INDENT=2]
turn'n n burn'n

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-11
Ok! current status : we have low graphics mode back, sorta. I deleted ~/.Xauthority and now calling startx from the TTY brings up a basic login screen and I can get to a desktop. There is no menu bar / title bar but at least nautilus appears to be running. However, the normal low graphics fallback that the machine tries to do on boot still fails -- and starting lightdm still fails as well.

I suspect that my whole X / lightdm / ubuntu-desktop configuration is very badly broken.

edit1: sorry we are posting out of synch, I will try the lightdm start again momentarily
edit2: nouveau driver does not appear to be loaded -- in fact, lspci does not list any kernel driver in use.
edit3: sudo service start lightdm gets me to a similar screen as startx: low-res desktop with no titlebar.
edit4: nvidia-current is not installed, I'm not sure how that happened ( oversight ? removed with additional mucking around with nvidia? either way, reinstalling now )
edit5: oh right we weren't supposed to be using the nvidia drivers. oh well, I can remove them again -- will see what happens on reboot.
edit6: Wow! installing nvidia current got be back at least to full resolution low graphics mode, still no panels though. hmm, but I will try the nouveau driver now
edit7: removing nvidia and reconfiguring nouveau knocked me back down to low-res low-graphics again, except  now the mouse cursor is invisible when it is trying to ask you whether you want to run in low graphics. 
edit8: sudo service start lightdm prints no errors and seems to think that lightdm is happily started. ( perhaps it is? )
edit9: The nouveau module does not appear to load.

summary: I am going to call it a night. It seems like if I can at least get the gnome panels back, then however the nvidia-common package configures X is sufficient to get a working full-res low graphics mode, which is acceptable for my purposes.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-11
mrule;
Shucks, why is the default open source driver not loading ? May indeed have to (re-)install the desktop, not a big deal that. But HAVE to get a driver loaded... the vesa driver that loads when nothing else loads obviously will not cut it.
Is nouveau broken ? -- and yeah we just installed it !What results - error wise:
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-video-nouveau
```

If and when we get something stable, we can look into the logs to see what is going on.[INDENT]
just another thought

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-12
Seems to install without error

```

$ sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-video-nouveau
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 reinstalled, 0 to remove and 18 not upgraded.
Need to get 0 B/91.2 kB of archives.
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used.
(Reading database ... 342435 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace xserver-xorg-video-nouveau 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3 (using .../xserver-xorg-video-nouveau_1%3a1.0.2-0ubuntu3_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement xserver-xorg-video-nouveau ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up xserver-xorg-video-nouveau (1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3) ...

```

But the module still isn't loading on reboot
```

$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation GF108GL [Quadro 600] [10de:0df8] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: NVIDIA Corporation Device [10de:0835]
	Kernel modules: nouveau, nvidiafb
03:00.1 Audio device [0403]: NVIDIA Corporation GF108 High Definition Audio Controller [10de:0bea] (rev a1)
--
04:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation Tesla C2075 [10de:1096] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: NVIDIA Corporation Device [10de:0910]
	Kernel modules: nouveau, nvidiafb


```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-12
mrule;
I have been thinking and looking and what might be happening is that the linux-header files for the current kernel are not being pulled in on the driver builds.
 ```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic
  uname -r # enter the output in the following CMD
  sudo apt-get install linux-headers-'uname -i' # eg:".....linux- headers-3.5.0.27-generic"
  sudo apt-get install dkms
  sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-nouveau
  sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri xserver-xorg-core
  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` (re-)installs the open source driver with the correct header files.
 
If you want the proprietary driver the correct header files also need to be installed, just substitute the install lines for Nvidia rather than nouveau.

In the event that there exist problems with the nouveau driver, I have found 2 boot options that may help.

What do you think, where are we at, as for a loaded graphics driver ? To see what is actually loaded; terminal command:
```
sudo lshw -C display
```[INDENT=2]
keep plug'n away

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-12
After performing those steps, but before reboot. Update: output identical after reboot, still stuck in low graphics.
```

$ sudo lshw -C display
PCI (sysfs)  
  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GF108GL [Quadro 600]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:f6000000-f6ffffff memory:d8000000-dfffffff memory:e0000000-e1ffffff ioport:cc80(size=128) memory:f7e00000-f7e7ffff
  *-display UNCLAIMED
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Tesla C2075
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:04:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:f5000000-f5ffffff memory:e8000000-efffffff memory:e2000000-e3ffffff ioport:bc80(size=128) memory:f4f00000-f4f7ffff

```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-12
mrule

 "capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller cap_list
       configuration: latency=0"
says no driver is loaded. Shheesshh// 
The configuration line would list the loaded driver.
lemme go see what I can find out about FORCING a driver to load !

I'll be back.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-12
mrule;

Still spinning wheels on my part.
I have confirmed from info at Xorg wiki and others that nouveau should perform admirably on the quadro 600.
And found two other observations I had not been observing that may have relevance.
1. Stop the Xserver prior to making any changes to the drivers (is it even running ?);
2. Update initramfs prior to rebooting (have yet to understand why).

With the above alterations in mind, you want to try and load the noveau driver again ?[INDENT=2]
frustrated but still have a mind set

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-12
After checking and stopping all processes related to X, and running these commands the situation is the same:
```

sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-headers-generic linux-headers-`uname -r` dkms xserver-xorg-video-nouveau libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri xserver-xorg-core
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
sudo update-initramfs -u

```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-12
mrule;

So sorry, Presently I have no explanation as to why the driver will not install and load ! Is the nouveau driver blacklisted ?
I am going to keep pounding away at this, and I have in mind to get another forum associate's opinion, soon as I see him on line.
[INDENT=2]
enquiring minds want to know

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-12
"blacklist nouveau" is commented out in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-04-13
Hi!, **mrule,**

Also check there are not any files in /etc/modprobe.d/ with titles including like 'nvidia' or 'nouveau', which may have been made whilst installing nvidia or nvidia-current drivers. If so delete them and reboot.

What status, version & size, does Synaptic Package manager give for: 'xserver-xorg-video-nouveau'?

When running the install --reinstall commands in your penultimate Post, #61, did you get any errors , or 'xxx is already the latest version' messages ?

@**Bashing_om**, I am tied up at the moment, and with 60 plus Posts to trawl through, the above are my first thoughts. Will get back again when time permits.

Chao!,** bogan.**

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-04-13
Hi!, **mrule** & B**ashing_om**,

WoW! You have surely had a journey!

Purely as  a matter of interest, the Matrox GPU has its own driver in the 12.10 kernal: "xserver-xorg-video-mga" & "mga-vid-source", On my main 12.10, Synaptic shows the first to be installed, though I have no idea why, I realise it is nothing to do with your problem. The puzzle is that your lspci did not show it having a driver at all.

In my /etc/modprobe.d/ there are two files: 'nvidia-current-updates_hybrid.conf' and 'nvidia-graphics-drivers.conf', both using various blacklist commands to blacklist nouveau. They were created during nvidia driver installations.

I notice in a recent Post that there were 18 updates outstanding. There has been a recent kernal update 3.5.0-27-28, as well as to xorgserver and xorg-core, so it would be a good idea to install them, whatever they are.

One trick to try is to boot to Recovery, and select 'Resume Boot', which sometimes avoids the hang-ups you have had.

If I were in your situation I would try removing & re-installing: lightdm, ubuntu-desktop & 'run setsid unity'.

The other obvious thing would be to reinstall 12.10 or revert to 1204.

Sometime ago I remember **MAFoElffen** created a stripped-down Ubuntu .ios file and Posted it as an attachment to permit the installation to be done from a CD. Perhaps he could give you a Link so you could download it. The doubt I have is that I cannot recall if it was for 12.10 0r 12.04.

Chao!,** bogan**.

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-04-13
Hi!, **mrule,**

Here is something else you could try.

I have recently been puzzled by an e-Sata/Usb HDD on which I have 12.10 and a lot of data, both Linux & Windows.

It runs perfectly plugged in on one computer. When plugged in to another with a different video card it behaved much as some of the things you describe.

Both computers have very similar hardware and both run the nvidia.com 304.51 Downloaded driver, as does the e-Sata drive.

Eventually, I gave up, but when I transferred it back to the first computer, the misbhavior continued.

Booting from Advanced Options first item, I got the Ramdisk message and it stayed until the greeter login screen. Logging-in gave a Desktop Background but no Launcher or Panels. None of the usual tricks helped, but in the end the following did:

From a tty, I installed 'gnome-session-fallback' and used 'Ctrl+Alt+F7' to revert to the Blank screen GUI.

There I pressed:'Ctrl+Alt+Del' which logged me out and I selected Gnome Classic (no effects) to log back in.

That gave me a normal resolution 2D GUI with top panel & menus, and  'Ctrl+Alt+F1' gave me a normal resolution TTY, where I reinstalled 304.51, rebooted and now everything is back to normal, and I can log in to Ubuntu as usual.

It may even be that installing the 'gnome-session-fallback' alone and  logging  in to Gnome Classic (no effects), may give you a GUI that will meet your needs.

Chao!, **bogan**.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-14
bogan;

Thanks for your efforts and input; Relieved that I have done appropriately in all my actions. Though still concerned that a resolution is yet to be achieved. Still do not understand what is preventing the installation of the nouveau driver !

 @ mrule; What are your thoughts ?  Is it considerable to (re-)install and start over on this from scratch and see what develops ?
[INDENT=3]
there must be a way

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-14
@bogan post 1

There are no files in /etc/modprobe.d/ containing 'nvidia' or 'nouveau'

```

$ ls /etc/modprobe.d/
alsa-base.conf          
blacklist.conf           
blacklist-framebuffer.conf  
blacklist-oss.conf           
blacklist-watchdog.conf  
iwlwifi.conf     
vmwgfx-fbdev.conf
blacklist-ath_pci.conf  
blacklist-firewire.conf  
blacklist-modem.conf        
blacklist-rare-network.conf  
dkms.conf                
libpisock9.conf

```

Synaptic claims xserver-xorg-video-nouveau is the "latest version"
```

$ apt-cache policy xserver-xorg-video-nouveau
xserver-xorg-video-nouveau:
  Installed: 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3
  Candidate: 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3
  Version table:
 *** 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3 0
        500 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) quantal/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status

```

I don't quite remember what happened when I ran the reinstall command on Friday, but here are the results from running it again. I do not see any errors or messages that would indicate anything out of the ordinary:

```

$ sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-headers-generic linux-headers-`uname -r` dkms xserver-xorg-video-nouveau libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri xserver-xorg-core
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following package was automatically installed and is no longer required:
  libaudit0
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove it.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 7 reinstalled, 0 to remove and 17 not upgraded.
Need to get 0 B/5,691 kB of archives.
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used.
(Reading database ... 367828 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64 9.0.3-0ubuntu0.1 (using .../libgl1-mesa-dri_9.0.3-0ubuntu0.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64 ...
Preparing to replace xserver-xorg-core 2:1.13.0-0ubuntu6.1 (using .../xserver-xorg-core_2%3a1.13.0-0ubuntu6.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement xserver-xorg-core ...
Preparing to replace libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 9.0.3-0ubuntu0.1 (using .../libgl1-mesa-glx_9.0.3-0ubuntu0.1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 ...
Preparing to replace dkms 2.2.0.3-1.1ubuntu1.1 (using .../dkms_2.2.0.3-1.1ubuntu1.1_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement dkms ...
Preparing to replace linux-headers-3.5.0-26-generic 3.5.0-26.42 (using .../linux-headers-3.5.0-26-generic_3.5.0-26.42_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement linux-headers-3.5.0-26-generic ...
Preparing to replace linux-headers-generic 3.5.0.27.43 (using .../linux-headers-generic_3.5.0.27.43_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement linux-headers-generic ...
Preparing to replace xserver-xorg-video-nouveau 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3 (using .../xserver-xorg-video-nouveau_1%3a1.0.2-0ubuntu3_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement xserver-xorg-video-nouveau ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64 (9.0.3-0ubuntu0.1) ...
Setting up xserver-xorg-core (2:1.13.0-0ubuntu6.1) ...
Setting up libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 (9.0.3-0ubuntu0.1) ...
Setting up dkms (2.2.0.3-1.1ubuntu1.1) ...
Setting up linux-headers-3.5.0-26-generic (3.5.0-26.42) ...
Examining /etc/kernel/header_postinst.d.
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/header_postinst.d/dkms 3.5.0-26-generic /boot/vmlinuz-3.5.0-26-generic
Setting up linux-headers-generic (3.5.0.27.43) ...
Setting up xserver-xorg-video-nouveau (1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
$ sudo update-initramfs -u
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-26-generic

```

@bogan post 2

I performed general update and upgrade. There were no errors or unusual output that I noticed.

Let's see ... "re-installing: lightdm, ubuntu-desktop"

```

$ sudo apt-get remove  lightdm ubuntu-desktop
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following package was automatically installed and is no longer required:
  libaudit0
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove it.
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  lightdm ubuntu-desktop
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 2 to remove and 2 not upgraded.
After this operation, 522 kB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? 
(Reading database ... 367826 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing ubuntu-desktop ...
Removing lightdm ...
Processing triggers for ureadahead ...
ureadahead will be reprofiled on next reboot
Processing triggers for man-db ...

$ sudo apt-get install lightdm ubuntu-desktop
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following package was automatically installed and is no longer required:
  libaudit0
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove it.
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  lightdm ubuntu-desktop
0 upgraded, 2 newly installed, 0 to remove and 2 not upgraded.
Need to get 0 B/104 kB of archives.
After this operation, 522 kB of additional disk space will be used.
Preconfiguring packages ...
Selecting previously unselected package lightdm.
(Reading database ... 367806 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking lightdm (from .../lightdm_1.4.0-0ubuntu2_amd64.deb) ...
Selecting previously unselected package ubuntu-desktop.
Unpacking ubuntu-desktop (from .../ubuntu-desktop_1.287_amd64.deb) ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Processing triggers for ureadahead ...
Setting up lightdm (1.4.0-0ubuntu2) ...
Setting up ubuntu-desktop (1.287) ...

```

Ok, nothing unusual there. When I reboot the machine now, I get get the low-graphics-mode message -- but the resolution is correct now which is an improvement. When I click "run in low graphics" it goes to "please standby while the display restarts". This message is still there after five minutes. The progress bar is compelte. If I click "ok" it drops pack to text with some unremarkable messages left over from boot. If I check via tty, I see that X is not running. 

I typed 'setsid unity' in tty1. The response says ( transcribed since I can't do this one remotely ):
```

no DISPLAY variable set, setting it to :0
compiz (core) - Fatal: Couldn't open display :0

```

@bogan post 3

I think gnome-session fallback fallback is already installed, let's check:
```

$ sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
gnome-session-fallback is already the newest version.
gnome-session-fallback set to manually installed.
The following package was automatically installed and is no longer required:
  libaudit0
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove it.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 2 not upgraded.

```

ok, so its already there, perhaps a reinstall?

```

$ sudo apt-get install --reinstall gnome-session-fallback
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following package was automatically installed and is no longer required:
  libaudit0
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove it.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 reinstalled, 0 to remove and 2 not upgraded.
Need to get 0 B/3,898 B of archives.
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used.
(Reading database ... 367827 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace gnome-session-fallback 3.6.0-0ubuntu1.1 (using .../gnome-session-fallback_3.6.0-0ubuntu1.1_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement gnome-session-fallback ...
Processing triggers for bamfdaemon ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/bamf.index...
Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils ...
Processing triggers for gnome-menus ...
Setting up gnome-session-fallback (3.6.0-0ubuntu1.1) ...

```

That seems pretty uneventful. Let's try rebooting. When it boots, it goes to the
'low graphics mode' prompt. If I switch to tty1 to see what's running:

```

$ps -e | grep X
 2086 ?        00:00:00 failsafeXServer
 2104 tty8     00:00:00 Xorg
 2114 ?        00:00:00 failsafeXinit

```

Ok, that's nice. Now I switch back to screen 7 and click "run in low graphics mode". It says "please standby while the display restarts". I wait 5 minutes and nothing interesting happens. I click "OK". The dialog disappears and the screen returns to text with random unremarkable messages from boot. If I head back to tty1, I see that X is no longer running
```

$ ps -e | grep X
# ( no output )

```

I tried typing sudo service lightdm start -- this gives me behavior identical to login ( same behavior as login -- low graphics mode prompt, then X dies when you click 'ok' in the 'standby while display restarts' dialog ). I tried typing startx. This is mildly interesting: screen 7 goes black, and the terminal tty1 from which I called start X is printing "no protocol specified" in a loop forever. 

@all

Thanks for the help so far. Unfortunately, I am still using the machine remotely and need this workstation during the next weeks and it would be a setback to have it go offline for an extended period of time. I can still SSH in and it otherwise seems to run well. The other reason I am reluctant to reinstall is that, if I remember correctly, graphics never worked even on a fresh 12.04 install. Installing nvidia-common gets a working full resolution low graphics mode. I wanted to get the cards working to reduce the CPU load of X and also to use the tesla card for computation. So, the current functionality is similar to the functionality of a fresh install. I understand that the configuration is probably very strange at this point, but as I said, I need the machine to be available and I'm nervous that a fresh install will take it out for several days. But, if you think that is the only option at this point, I am willing to consider it.


edit: update: 

Because I need to do some work on this machine that I don't know how to do over SSH, I am reloading the nvidia drivers following this tutorial ( [http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-quetzal-nvidia.html](http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-quetzal-nvidia.html) ). I hope to get to a working low-graphics mode by doing this. However, there were some hiccups when following this procedure which might be informative. After installing nvidia_current, it says that the nvidia module should be loaded but "sudo /sbin/lsmod | grep nvidia" reveals nothing. The tutorial says that one can load it using "sudo depmod -a && sudo modprobe nvidia_current", but when I run this command, I get the error "FATAL: Error inserting nvidia_current (/lib/modules/3.5.0-26-generic/updates/dkms/nvidia_current.ko): No such device". After rebooting the machine "sudo /sbin/lsmod | grep nvidia" indicates that the NVIDIA driver is loaded and "lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga" indicates that both cards are using the nvidia driver. However, whereas before using nvidia_current would get me to at least a working low-graphics mode, now it does not. When I click "run in low graphics for just this session", it gives similar behavior as without nvidia drivers. Once lightdm or whatever was giving those "low graphics mode" prompts crashes, I can get to a tty. If I try to kill all the X related processes, it will drop me to a screen with a blinking cursor, and I cannot use the keyboard. So, what I did was, remotely, called "sudo service lightdm restart", which brought back the "low graphics mode" dialogue. Now, the keyboard on the workstation works, and I can get to a tty. In one line, I say "kill -9 ( list of X related processes ) && sudo startx" -- this will bring up a full resolution display now, but there is no desktop environment per se. It is just a blank desktop with a single window asking me whether I want to deal with the fact that one of my hard drives is full. So, that is good news, because I all I need to do today is to deal with the fact that one of the hard drives is full. Interestingly enough, the nvidia drivers are still loaded, which suggests to me that there is, in fact, nothing wrong with this system per se, and that the nvidia drivers do work. However, something is broken in the startup and initialization which is preventing the normal sequence of events from happening. I realize this complicates debugging as we were trying to get the nouveau driver working, but I am hoping to get some sort of barely usable system in the near-term to get some work done.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-14
mrule; Hey

Good possibility that the Xserver/Xorg is not loading properly as we can find no faults with our install procedures and neither the noveau nor the Nvidia drivers are working on a well supported card (quadro 600). 
I would think it is time to start reading the system logs and see what they have to relate to us for a system problem.
look at :
/var/log/Xorg.0.log and
In your home directory is a hidden fille: .xsession-errors.

On another thought:
A mode can be forced on the kernel command line.
The format is: video=<conn>:<xres>x<yres>[M][R][-<bpp>][@<refresh>][i][m][eDd]
You can override the modes of several outputs using "video" several times, for instance, to force DVI to 1024x768 at 85 Hz and TV-out off: video=DVI-I-1:1024x768@85 video=TV-1:d
source: [http://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/KernelModeSetting](http://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/KernelModeSetting)
- this might allow you to get your work done -[INDENT]
just don't know, still plugging away

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-04-15
Hi!, **mrule,**

Did you try logging in to 'Gnome Classic (no effects)', or can you not get to a Gui log-in?

Also have you tried: ```
sudo apt-get install -f
dpkg-reconfigure -a
```[ The later can take a long while with no feed back, just wait it out; maybe 10-15 minutes.

If you choose the re-install route I would suggest the 13.04 version, which near release freeze.

+1 to checking the logs, especially /home/username/.xsession_errors.

Chao!, **bogan.**

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-16
Hi all, haven't forgotten, just had to get some work done. The machine is processing so will be tied up for a couple days.

"sudo apt-get install -f && sudo dpkg-reconfigure -a" didn't seem to do much, so hopefully this means the package manager is happy. 

the error logs are long so I have put them on pastebin
[.xsession_errors]("http://pastebin.com/NsTffXYM")
[/var/log/Xorg.0.log]("http://pastebin.com/5GsavbLx")


I'll keep in mind and play with forcing video modes next time the machine is free. Thanks for all the help so far! At least the machine is working for computation, that is good.

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-17
I don't really see anything telling in those error logs, but I'm not sure what I'm looking for. Since startx appears to work I take it we're looking at a configuration problem with how the login screen starts X ( or whatever it uses ). ? maybe?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-17
mrule;

I am unable to make out much either. There are discrepancies between what .xsession-error and Xorg relate (probably different time frames).
1. Why is the "nv" module not loadable ?
2. Why is the "tesla" card being recognized and trying to load up the Nvidia 310 driver ?(last relayed Xorg file)
3. Why is xrander turning off ?
4. The monitor does not support 3d; is this a cause for concern (.Xsession-errors says compiz is running )?
--this for starters, there are others--

I am not able to answer any of the above. I wish I had the answers !

@ bogan, in your experience, what driver should the Nvidia quadro 600 be using ? I do not see that card listed in the Xorg file. The list of drivers/cards is way short and entirely different to anything I have seen in my experience.[INDENT]
it's a production machine -on-line; and I do not know how to help 

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mrule on 2013-04-24
Well, thanks for trying everyone. I am going to assume that this problem is unsolvable and not waste any more time on it.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-24
mrule;

Surely there is a solution ! I do regret I do not have the skill/knowledge to effect a solution.
Only thing I know to do presently is wait and see if others with greater experience will see this thread and respond.
[INDENT]
[/INDENT]
[INDENT=2]remain in a state of learning

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-04-25
Hi!,** Bashing-om & mrule,**

You Posted:> @ bogan, in your experience, what driver should the Nvidia quadro 600 be using ?I do not have any direct experience of the quadro 600, but nvidia.com drivers is quite definite that the 310.44 is the certified driver for the GF 108 GL Quadro 600.

I do not have anything new to suggest beyond my previous suggestions, or to upgrade to today's release of 13.04.

Chao!,** bogan.**

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-25
@ bogan;

I am stuck and this has turned into a real learning experience for me. How do you feel if we see if MAFoElffen can offer some guidance in this sloppyation ? With a GUI interaction acting up on a server application, this has gotten over my comprehension (not to mention eventually configuring for two different cards being on-demand).

@ mrule'
It's your call, what ya want to do ?
[INDENT=3]
hurts in too many ways to call it quits

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-04-25
Hi!, Bashing_om,

If the OP wants to continue, then MAFoElffen is the one most likeky tobe able to productively advise. I leave it to you to PM him.

Chao!, bogan.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-25
My thoughts, pleased you agree.

---

