---
title: "11.04 on Novatech X10 (Atom Netbook) Wifi state on startup"
date: 2011-05-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by IHxInfi on 2011-05-06
Hello,

Having an issue with wifi being turned off on startup. If i press Fn (funciton key) and F2 it turns wifi on (blue led comes on) and then everything works as normal.

Have dual boot with windows 7, when it loads wifi is on by default.

Does anyone know why Ubuntu is turning the wifi off by default and if so how to fix?

Thanks

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-05-06
I have only tried the live USB and not installed 11.04 on my year old X10 from Novatech, but that live version had wireless from boot up with no problem.

Interestingly the wireless key on my machine is F11 + Func key, so I suspect you have a newer version of the X10.  I don't have windows on mine, but I think I have heard of machines where, if the wireless is off when you shutdown windows, it will also be off when you boot to ubuntu.  Seems very weird, but I don't think my memory is playing tricks on me.

My X10 has an atheros AR5B95 chipset which seems to work without fault, and so far in any OS I have tried, the wireless has worked out of the box, usually running a live USB, I admit, though I have installed and wiped a few times just for fun and to try things.

Currently I'm running Lubuntu 10.00, which is great and very speedy, and online from the start.  I've also downloaded Lubuntu 11.04 to try, and it also looks good.

---

### Post by IHxInfi on 2011-05-09
Hi there, this is the 2nd X10 I've bought from Novatech... This new one is a Pine-Trail version of the atom chipset.

I'm currently running my older one with MacOSX (hackintosh) and not quite able to bring myself to the pain of reinstalling that after testing ubuntu on it (I could always just try the live cd i suppose).

It just seems odd that the wifi works through the install... i wouldn't have thought that the windows installation would turn the wifi off on shutdown... there might be something in that.

Is there any way on ubuntu start-up (after login) to emulate key presses to trick the wifi into activating perhaps?

Thanks again.

---

