---
title: "Acer 3810t: Laptop only runs on AC power"
date: 2010-10-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by quickdry21 on 2010-10-21
Ok, here is my problem:

My laptop will only run with the AC adapter plugged in, whether the battery is installed or not.

This is what happened:

I was using my laptop, running on battery power, as normal, on campus. Actually, I was installing the newest compat wireless drivers from source ([http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Download](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Download)). After a successful compilation I ran sudo make install, which spit out a few error messages near the end. I had a class, so believing it to be a moderate success, I shut down the computer (with ~50% battery power remaining) and made my way, intending to examine what happened in more detail once I got to class.

When I got to class my computer would not start, period. Once I was able to plug it in, to my extreme joy, it started like normal, no error messages, nothing unusual in the logs (not that I'm great at reading log files). Except for the fact that the wireless did not work. The only thing I remember about the error messages generated by make install was that they mentioned something about Intel (makes sense, it's an Intel wireless card). The one other thing I remember, is that I specified which drivers to compile for compilation, which I don't normally do, and that I was unsure of the decision between intel, and iwlagn (think those were the names).

So I uninstalled the compat drivers (sudo make uninstall), rebooted, and although my wireless was working again, I was still unable to boot on battery. I know it sounds crazy, but did the compat drivers somehow affect the other Intel components in the system? I'm a computer science major and I love tinkering with Linux, but it just seems very uncanny that after having shutdown my laptop, which had been working like a dream, 5 minutes later it no longer will boot from battery and the only difference is that I installed the wrong drivers.

Note that I bought this laptop in July of last year.

So, here is what I know:

```

ecoutu@ecoutu-laptop:~$ cat /proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/*
alarm:                   unsupported
present:                 yes
design capacity:         5600 mAh
last full capacity:      4847 mAh
battery technology:      rechargeable
design voltage:          11100 mV
design capacity warning: 0 mAh
design capacity low:     0 mAh
cycle count:		  0
capacity granularity 1:  100 mAh
capacity granularity 2:  0 mAh
model number:            AS09D70
serial number:           E32C
battery type:            LION
OEM info:                SMP-SDI28
present:                 yes
capacity state:          ok
charging state:          charged
present rate:            0 mA
remaining capacity:      2194 mAh
present voltage:         11433 mV
```
The battery is recognized and is reading a capacity that is close to what I remember (45.3%) it being the last time the battery worked. It seems to me that it's there, just not "working," for some reason.

What is curious, is that when I run upower --monitor-detail, I'm receiving state changes. According to the upower man page, ```
Connect to the UPower daemon and print a line every time a power source is added, removed or changed.
``` there must have been a change to the power source, as I neither added or removed it:
```

ecoutu@ecoutu-laptop:~$ sudo upower --monitor-detail
Monitoring activity from the power daemon. Press Ctrl+C to cancel.
[19:02:52.033]	device changed:     /org/freedesktop/UPower/devices/battery_BAT0
  native-path:          /sys/devices/LNXSYSTM:00/LNXSYBUS:00/PNP0A08:00/device:0b/PNP0C09:00/PNP0C0A:00/power_supply/BAT0
  vendor:               SMP-SDI28
  model:                AS09D70
  serial:               E32C
  power supply:         yes
  updated:              Thu Oct 21 19:02:52 2010 (0 seconds ago)
  has history:          yes
  has statistics:       yes
  battery
    present:             yes
    rechargeable:        yes
    state:               fully-charged
    energy:              24.3534 Wh
    energy-empty:        0 Wh
    energy-full:         53.8017 Wh
    energy-full-design:  62.16 Wh
    energy-rate:         0 W
    voltage:             11.433 V
    percentage:          45.2651%
    capacity:            86.5536%
    technology:          lithium-ion

^C
```
I'm fairly certain there is no short and unfortunately, I don't have a multi meter at my disposal to attempt to test for open circuits or anything like that.

From everything I have read, the following reasons seem plausible:
1. The batteries' safety mechanism triggered and the battery is finished.
2. There is a problem with the laptop's charging system.
3. Somehow the smart battery brain was confused and or fried (I dunno I just don't trust computer logic of any sort).
4. Possibly other things I'd thought of and now don't remember.

Number 3 makes the most sense to me; the battery is there, hasn't changed state, but for some reason it believes that it is fully charged. Also, after ALOT of reading, I came across rare mention of people with Acer Timeline models having to send in Simplo batteries for a firmware update (even batteries have firmware!?), but all the links to Acer's site were broken, and I could find no mention of it through their page.

Side question, if I found the new firmware, could I hotwire a battery and update it's firmware? :D

Now, normally, when the laptop is on AC power, there is a LED in the front that is orange when the unit is charging and blue when it is fully charged. Now, the LED never shines, whether on, off, plugged in or not. With one exception: the led flashes orange during POST, and once when grub loads.

It seems to me like the battery is there, recognized and is in the same state as it was when I last was able to use it. If this is the case, why oh why can't I get my computer to recognize it? Obviously this isn't a Ubuntu specific error, as there is none of the usual charging orange led when the computer is plugged in but off, but I feel like Ubuntu is the culprit and/or the one who may be able to save me.

What I want to know is whether a, I can save my battery (doubt it) or b, whether it is a problem with the charging subsystem, motherboard or battery before I go spending money. Unfortunately I cannot find another 3810t to troubleshoot my battery against.

I have tried:
1. Updating the BIOS (which was only 1 version behind at the time).
2. Pulling the battery and reinserting it while both operating under AC and with no AC connection.
3. Letting the computer sit with neither AC or battery and also with both.
4. Holding the power button with AC and battery removed for 20, 30, 60, 120 seconds before trying to start it with all combinations of AC and battery.

I'm unable to do a full discharge/charge calibration, as the battery will neither drain nor charge (not that I imagine this would help).

Also, the BIOS doesn't offer any settings or options related to the battery.

My highest hopes are that there is some means of tricking the battery through ACPI or something like that into working again, otherwise I would just like to know if this is more likely a battery or motherboard issue.

Sorry for the long post.

---

### Post by raphael_a on 2011-03-08
Hi

After extensive search I found your post and I have pretty much  the same problem, but It just arrived last week.

Battery plugged in but not charging. I a have windows 7 running and it displays "67% plugged-in, not charging", and also suspect your battery brain/firmware issue.

I also have updated the firmware, the battery's life was around 6hours before this problem.

Of course acer tech support immediately answered that the battery must be remplaced.

Have you ever found a solution for your problem ?

---

### Post by JimHQ on 2011-03-24
I have been happily using my Acer 3810T with Ubuntu for a year or more. Yesterday I developed exactly the same issue as described above. If you have any update on progress then I would be extremely interested. In the meantime as a first step I am going to update the BIOS as according to the Acer support website the latest BIOS was designed to improve battery charging performance.

Jim.

---

### Post by raphael_a on 2011-03-24
Hi

Updating the bios didn't work for me. In fact, I event suppose the bios is saying something like "this battery is to old/or is not made but acer".

I went to see a battery shop and they told me that the batteries have some-kind of circuit inside. This circuit is disabled if you open the battery. It could be a similar device to prevent you from using non-acer batteries (like printers sometimes have this kind of device for ink cartridges).

Anyway, it is either the battery is dead, either the recognition device is not working properly (bios or physical).  
I think, it's device-bios related but we would need to reverse engineering such device and write a new bios...:(

Has someone tried to open the battery to have a look ?

---

### Post by fabulan on 2011-03-25
Hello everyone!

i have exact the same problem!!! 
7 month ago everything started with the problem that the battery didn t charge 100% anymore. max. 80/88%! i didnt care because that 80% were still enough for using it 3-4 hours. But yesterday one moment the laptop shut down and would not start without AC-plug. 

After this I updated the bios to version 1.28 but it is still the same!

Right know i am searching for a cheap battery for replacing this one.
Cheapest i found: 

[http://www.charger4u.co.uk/battery-111v-4800mah-acer-aspire-3810t944g32n-p-29931.html](http://www.charger4u.co.uk/battery-111v-4800mah-acer-aspire-3810t944g32n-p-29931.html)

only bad thing for me: they ship wolrdwide but not to austria! cant say why!

best greetings,

fabian

---

### Post by raphael_a on 2011-03-25
what do you intend to do with your old battery ?

If you don't intend to keep it, I would be curious to have a look inside. This is a very dangerous operation, so don't head off opening your battery without appropriate protection and tools.

by any chance, are you a expert in electronics ?

---

### Post by fabulan on 2011-03-25
right now i am in mexico for several weeks. had a long phone conversation with the acer support here in mexico city but with no results. they wont change the battery. hueputas!

i have no tools withme so disambling could be dificult.

---

### Post by raphael_a on 2011-04-25
Hi

A guy on windows 7 found a problem and resolved it ([here]("http://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/itprovistahardware/thread/741398c6-a733-482c-a33c-2b61d9bc2984")) by craking open his laptop and physicaly fixed  the wire...I'll ask him for photos and details.

> 
Moondog419 :

Update!  I figured out the problem; it seems to be caused by a partially  burnt through positive wire in the laptop side of the ac adapter.  I  fixed mine by cracking open the AC adapter (no small feat) and cutting  the wire past the bad spot and then re soldering the length of good wire  back into place.  I found this problem completely by accident I cracked  open the ac adapter to look and see if I simply had a bad solder point,  and i inadvertently pulled on the laptop side of the wire and it broke  exposing burnt cover, I only assume it was partially burnt through as  that is why the computer says "plugged in"  but the charging portion of  the wire is the part that burnt.  my burn was rather close to the box of  the adapter so you may have some other location.  Be careful make sure  your laptop is unplugged and battery is disconnected.  proceed at your  own risk

---

### Post by felixxx on 2011-08-21
any updates? i have the same problem :(

---

### Post by raphael_a on 2012-01-11
Hi

Sorry, no new for me

---

### Post by moonl33 on 2012-01-20
got the same problem but mine is an  old acer 4736z. not a battery problem. turn your computer on, go to bios, unplug ac... if your computer stays on longer... then definitely not a battery issue.

---

