---
title: "16.04 Added PCIe Sata card (JOBD not Raid) Ethernet No Longer Working"
date: 2016-10-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by wgilthorpe on 2016-10-27
I hope someone can give me some insight as to what is going on here. 

 I added a PCIe 4 port sata card to my server so that I could add more disks.  After restart, boot never gets to console.  I can alt+ctrl+F{x} and get a tty and log on.

ifconfig lists only the loopback, however ifconfig -a lists loopback and physical Ethernet port as enp2s0.  ifup enp2s0 gives unknown interface even though it is listed in the previous command.

The strange thing is that the port is now called enp2s0.  (note server has been up and running over 6 months with ssh access over the net usually headless).  During initial configuration I set the static IP in the /etc/network/interfaces.  When I did so, the Ethernet port was called enp1s0.  So, I had an aha moment.  Since I added an item to the PCI bus, the auto rename that Ubuntu now does renamed Eth0 -> enp2s0 instead of enp1s0 as the port number shifted when I added the PCIe sata card.  However, when I changed my /etc/network/interfaces to match, I still get no Ethernet connection on reboot and ifup enp2s0 gives unknown interface.  My best assumption is that there is another configuration file that is refering to enp1s0 that needs to be changed.

If any output or log is needed, let me know and I will post when I get off work.  This issue leaves me with no remote access.

Edit:

If I type ifup then hit tab for autocomplete, the autocomplete uses enp1s0.  This is the old name of the Ethernet port.  This further confirms that the Ethernet port is referenced in some other files as enp1s0 still.  Anyone?

---

