---
title: "10.04 Netbook Edition on CloudBook"
date: 2010-07-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by greg.j on 2010-07-05
[FONT="Calibri"][SIZE="2"]Hello Ubuntu forums!
So I am (obviously) new to the forums & before asking I have looked via the search option but have not seen anything that has answers to my questions.

My uncle has an Everex CloudBook (I'm sure someone died when they saw that title) & has been having issues with it. He has XP on there after removing the gOS but nothing worked quite right: Wifi drivers shoddy, XP doesn't really play nice with VIA CPU & IGP, etc. So I told him I'd put the UNE 10.04 on there for him to help him out. I have since gotten the CloudBook to successfully install Ubuntu & it's really nifty (I've never actually seen/used a netbook remix since a classmate had kubuntu on his is a year ago or so) but I have two issues:

1) I need wifi drivers. I'm not sure if ethernet works but suggestions for a repository to get them if possible would be appreciated. If not then I've got a MacBook I can copy everything on to a flashdrive for & pull over.
2) I can see icons just fine but everything has messed-up lettering. That is, every letter is an oddly shaped white box.

I do appreciate the assistance everyone! With this I do think I'm going to become a permanent resident of the forums as I've just put 10.04 full on my desktop after Win7 decided to stop playing ball. Still a little noobish at Linux as I've only done some basic server/network management with it (SUSE 9) at school in labs.


Specs:
VIA C7-M 1.2GHz CPU w/ VIA "unichrome" IGP, 64MB shared
1GB DDR2
30GB HDD[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by tonytraductor on 2010-07-15
I have an everex cloudbook here. 
I bought it about a year ago from eBay for $100.
It had hardy herron on it, which worked okay.
I had removed all gnome, and was using wmii or openbox, and replaced the gnome-network stuff with wicd.
For some reason, wifi was fickle (sometimes worked, sometimes didn't) after making that change.
Now, I did a fresh install of karmic from a usb key, and the wifi works great with the default gnome tools.
I did add xfce and disable the clunky, bloated, nauseating netbook remix interface.  Seems to be working well now.
I tried to install 9.10karmic, then upgrade to 10.04lucid, but that turned into a nightmare.
Kept freezing during the final stages of the upgrade, kept restarting, had to do dpkg --configure -a, etc.
When I finally got 10.04 to boot, the xfce panel was filling the entire screen, the netbook-remix interface in gnome was unreadable...basically all GUI elements had become useless (still could use terminal).
I went back and reinstalled the 9.10, which I am running again, now, with xubuntu-desktop rather than the gnome/netbook interface.

---

### Post by james_xxx on 2010-07-27
Hey tonytraductor,

I am the person you purchased that Cloudbook from on Ebay!

It's funny I should stumble onto this thread. I had wondered how you might have gotten along with it.

I had many ups and downs trying to get everything working correctly on it.

The best luck I had was with a specific version of OpenSuse (11.1?).

At any rate, I am glad to know you are getting some use out of it. I very much hated to sell it, but needed the money badly, and had already migrated to a Dell Mini 9.

Peace!

---

