---
title: "S.M.A.R.T. updates are killing my hard drive"
date: 2010-09-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Hawkoon on 2010-09-13
Hi All,

I am looking for a way to disable the hard disk S.M.A.R.T. update, or at least I want to increase the update interval.

I have this 500GB Iomega 2.5" drive connected via USB to an Ubuntu 9.10 laptop and its sole purpose is to make backups every day/week/month. I send the drive into stand-by after a certain idle period, but after 30 minutes in stand-by something causes the SMART values to be updated (visible in System/Administration/Disk utility) for which the drive is spun up again. So in effect the drive is spining up twice per hour or, if I dont send it to stand-by, it is running 24/7. I dont like either option because they put too much stress on the drive given its purpose. (I really only need the drive once a day for 5 minutes or so.)

I dont know whether it is the drive itself that wants to update the SMART values or if Ubuntu is triggering the updates by polling the values.

Any ideas are welcome so that my drive can live a LONG and happy life.

Thanks,
Hardy

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-13
the smart stats and updating is handled by teh hdd firmware and the system bios. the OS and utilities just read that data. you can disable it in the bios if your mfg has given you the option to do so. 

I question your assertion that SMART monitoring or updating is increasing your load cycle/spin up count by any serious amount, and would generally respond that at that rate, any one of a number of failure conditions will occur before your load cycle issue will kill it, and without smart data, you probably won't see it coming, especially if the drive is never used directly by a user (so no one notices that it's starting to act wonky).

you are right, it is not quite optimal considering your specific usecase, but I don't think you will actually get a longer living drive by disabling it, I think you may be tilting at windmills. 

just my two bits.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-09-13
> **endotherm said:**
> the smart stats and updating is handled by teh hdd firmware and the system bios. the OS and utilities just read that data. you can disable it in the bios if your mfg has given you the option to do so. 

Not correct.  The drive provides the data at the request of some program running on the OS.  The bios is not involved at all, other than possibly checking the smart data itself at boot time and reporting if something is terribly wrong.

IIRC, it is the udisks daemon that polls the smart values periodically in the background, but it checks if the drive is in standby mode and skips the check if it is.

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-13
[IMG]http://techgage.com/reviews/gigabyte/p35c_ds3r/gigabyte_ds3r_bios_03_thumb.jpg[/IMG]

sure looks like a BIOS setting to me. check on google images. hundreds more, for many types of bioses.

SMART works by accumulating stat counters at the HDD controller level and are stored on the controler chip (that circuit board on the underside of the HDD). that way if you take that drive out and put it in a new machine, the stats do not reset. the client applications simply poll the SMART interface to get the stats. your OS has little or nothing to do with it.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-09-13
> **endotherm said:**
> 
sure looks like a BIOS setting to me. check on google images. hundreds more, for many types of bioses.

Just has the bios check the main self assessment value at boot time and scream if it fails.  You can set it to anything you like and it has no impact at all on the disk utility.

> **endotherm said:**
>  the client applications simply poll the SMART interface to get the stats. your OS has little or nothing to do with it.

Depends on whether you consider the disk utility to be part of the OS or not.  Most people do.

---

### Post by Hawkoon on 2010-09-13
> the smart stats and updating is handled by teh hdd firmware and the system bios. the OS and utilities just read that data. you can disable it in the bios if your mfg has given you the option to do so. I dont have that bios option so I cannot try if that indeed would solve my spin-up problem.

> 
IIRC, it is the udisks daemon that polls the smart values periodically in the background, but it checks if the drive is in standby mode and skips the check if it is.I googled udisks and found that you can pass it an option to ignore the fact that a disk is in stand-by, causing it to spin up when polling the SMART values. This would explain the behaviour that I am observing. Only thing is I cannot find udisks on my system; either I am not looking in the right place or perhaps I need to look for a different name predecessor on my 9.10 Ubuntu?

Thanks for your help so far, I will google on udisks and hdparm tomorrow... there has to be a way to configure the SMART value polling!

---

### Post by ameno on 2010-09-15
i had no problems with spinning down my harddrives in 9.10, for 10.04 i filed a bug today: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udisks/+bug/638765](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udisks/+bug/638765)
i think there was no udisks in 9.10 by default or it did not poll for smart data or something else changed...

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-15
> **ameno said:**
> i had no problems with spinning down my harddrives in 9.10, for 10.04 i filed a bug today: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udisks/+bug/638765](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udisks/+bug/638765)
i think there was no udisks in 9.10 by default or it did not poll for smart data or something else changed...
udisks or somthing else, my disks have been accumulating smart stats for me since feisty.

---

### Post by ameno on 2010-09-15
there is nothing wrong with _the harddisks_ logging smart data in their memory! this is intended and works without any software on the pc. the problem is that the drives spin up when software reads the data.

---

### Post by Hawkoon on 2010-09-16
I already though I've found what the problem is: smartd daemon was runing on my system and by default it polls SMART data every 30 minutes. It is part of smartmontools and I removed the whole lot. However, my drive is still spining up every 30 minutes, so some other program is still polling SMART data!

> **ameno said:**
> ... i think there was no udisks in 9.10 by default or it did not poll for smart data or something else changed...

That is right, udisks was introduced with 10.04 and replaced devicekit-disks (9.10). Just searching for "*smart*" I got two interesting looking hits on my 9.10 Ubuntu: /lib/udev/devkit-disks-probe-ata-smart and /usr/lib/devicekit-disks/devkit-disks-helper-ata-smart-collect

I need to figure out what there purpose is and whether there is a way of altering their behaviour (e.g. probing SMART data once a day is OK, but not every 30 minutes!)

---

### Post by ameno on 2010-09-17
i have now disabled udisk's smart-polling by replacing its udisks-helper-ata-smart-collect with my own script, which just returns 0. this seems to work, my drive is asleep now for over an hour.

---

### Post by Hawkoon on 2010-09-17
> **ameno said:**
> i have now disabled udisk's smart-polling by replacing its udisks-helper-ata-smart-collect with my own script, which just returns 0. this seems to work, my drive is asleep now for over an hour.

What do you mean, you replaced the udisks-helper-ata-smart-collect lib file with a bash script? Do you first have to convert the bash script to a lib file again? (I have never dug that deep into the system, so I dont really know how to work with these lib files.

Meanwhile I found this bug report [HTML]https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libatasmart/+bug/435190[/HTML] with seems to relate to my problem. It is indicated that it was fixed, but then further down in the bug report someone is still experiencing the spin-up problem. The same person provides a new workaround which is also working for me. I commented out a line in /lib/udev/rules.d/95-devkit-disks.rules

Original:
```
# USB ATA enclosures with a SAT layer
KERNEL=="sd*[!0-9]", ATTR{removable}=="0", ENV{ID_BUS}=="usb", ENV{DEVTYPE}=="disk", IMPORT{program}="devkit-disks-probe-ata-smart $tempnode"
```New:
```
# USB ATA enclosures with a SAT layer
#KERNEL=="sd*[!0-9]", ATTR{removable}=="0", ENV{ID_BUS}=="usb", ENV{DEVTYPE}=="disk", IMPORT{program}="devkit-disks-probe-ata-smart $tempnode"
```

I still couldn't figure out what is triggering the polling every 30 minutes. If there was a way to configure the interval to like a day, that would have been a more elegant solution.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-09-17
> **Hawkoon said:**
> What do you mean, you replaced the udisks-helper-ata-smart-collect lib file with a bash script?

Despite it being in /usr/lib, it isn't actually a library.  It's normally a binary program that is executed when a disk is added to the system, so you can replace it with another program, in this case, a script, that does nothing.

---

### Post by ameno on 2010-09-19
exactly!
(sorry for not responding timely, im not subscribed to this topic)

i described how to replace the script in my bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udisks/+bug/638765/comments/1](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udisks/+bug/638765/comments/1)
which is probably a duplicate... i even commented on the other one when it hit me less than a year ago, lol. but it was fixed with the proposed patch on my other box (which was upgraded to lucid and not plainly installed as my new laptop), so i must have forgotten it.

the other workaround with uncommenting the rules file can also be applied by copying the rules file to /etc/udev/rules.d/ and commenting it out there. this will even survive upgrades (but possibly the true fix for this problem too :)

---

### Post by martini1179 on 2010-12-31
Thanks for this *very* informative thread. As I said in your bug report, I can confirm this in Lucid. Most times that the drive wakes up, I go to Disk Utility and can see that the SMART data has just been update for the external drive. 

Has this been fixed in Maverick?

---

