---
title: "10.04 Dell D620 still running hot and loud fan?"
date: 2010-09-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by brevardo on 2010-09-25
I have a Dell Laptop Latitude D620 and I just installed Ubuntu 10.04. For the first few days it seemed to be running fine but once again I'm bothered as I boot it up and I'm playing a MP3 with movie player and have one Firefox browser opened and once again I'm starting to hear the fan screaming high and low. I know that this isn't normal. I was told by someone else on the forum that this should work fine out of the box once I install 10.04 Netbook. Do I need the restricted driver? If so how do I get it. When I go to System> hardware drivers it doesn't give me an option to activate a graphics driver ( only the wireless driver ) I'm afraid that I'm going to install something and then I won't be able to see the screen and then I'm not sure how I'll be able to go back to the previous driver without having to re-install the entire operating system again. Any ideas and suggestions would be greatly appreciated. Below is my graphics card model.



VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
brevardo@brevardo-laptop:~$

---

### Post by darkstarbyte on 2010-09-25
I have the same problem on my Intel atom its just firefox and some video codecs are hard on these Intel atom processors. For the firefox issue I would suggest opera but when it starts up the fan goes then slows to about normal. The video codecs are hard on the processor the more efficient they get at compressing the video.

---

### Post by mrhhug on 2010-09-25
i 2nd using opera for everything

---

### Post by darkstarbyte on 2010-09-25
I used to use Fire fox for years and Google chrome for a week, and Opera is like the two combined only faster.

I just thought of a media player you might want to look into VLC.

---

### Post by tr26 on 2010-10-07
I think the commenters are missing the fact that he's not on a netbook and he's complaining about it being hot with a loud fan, not a slow browser of video.

Perhaps it's similar to the ACPI and DSDT issues other laptop users regularly encounter with Linux.  On my Toshiba, which is not at all like your d620 but has similar problems, I've had to add GNOME's power manager to the top bar.  Why?  Because GNOME defaults to a performance power state, which is high heat to the point of thermal shutdown.  Setting it to conservative or on-demand is much more useable.

What's the fix, if it is indeed such a problem?  That's tricky.  There's a thread on fixing a buggy DSDT file at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1036051](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1036051) and that may lead you down the right path.

Good luck!

---

### Post by Carl.Spackler on 2010-10-08
Your D620 has onboard graphics and there is no restricted or performance driver for it in Ubuntu. In fact the heatpipe for that video chip is pretty small given the very low amount of heat it generates. 
 
Two things to check:
 
1. The vents at the rear left/underneath and side. This will all be on the opposite side of the CDrom. Make sure they are very clean because these machines were known to overheat due to plugged vents. You can use a can of air of small air compressor to blow them out. Be careful not to damage the cooling fan inside.
 
2. Remove the keyboard and make sure that the CPU and heatpipe connection is in good shape. Do not use heat sink grease or AS on it. The heat pipe comes from Dell with a special pad that sits between the CPU and the pipe that provides the contact for heat transfer. While you have the keyboard off make sure that the heatsink area in the upper left corner (where you cleaned earlier - listed above) is really cleaned out.
 
Hope maybe those things will help!

---

### Post by brevardo on 2010-11-10
This is pretty disappointing. It's still a problem. I think it's obvious that Dell laptops and Lucid are not a good match. I've read many forums that make it sound as if I need to switch the default power management and there is no possible way to do that? I've read other forums that say right click the top tool bar and add a temperature applet and that isn't possible with Lucid either. I've tried to update the kernel but don't know how to get the right driver for a laptop and when I download and install      /linux-source-2.6.34_2.6.34-020634_all.deb it seems to work until the next day or until I accept a ubuntu update which then seems to revert it back to being very hot and very loud. If I unplug the power cord right now within 2 seconds it will say that my battery life is at 78.2%. Doesn't anyone have a solution for this? If not I give up and will just go back to Windows.

---

### Post by waynefoutz on 2010-11-10
I have Linux Mint 9, which has Lucid under the hood, running on my daughter's Dell Latitude D620, we're not having any of these issues you describe.

---

