---
title: "22.04.3 Desktop on LG GRAM 17Z90R-G.AD7CG"
date: 2024-02-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by abrietz on 2024-02-03
Hi,

I am trying to run Ubuntu 22.04.3 on my LG GRAM. I can install it and it runs in general. But there are ACPI errors in syslog showing up several times per second! That renders the syslog almost not usable.
Also the system is not stable and reboots at unforeseen times without any hints or signs to react on.

I've tried to troubleshoot this problem. But with my findings on the internet I could not solve the problem. There are some postings on reddit dealing with previous verson of LG GRAM notebooks, but the solutions proposed there do not help in my case. One of these links is: [https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxhardware/comments/g6vg5g/ubuntu_2004_runs_on_lg_gram_17/](https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxhardware/comments/g6vg5g/ubuntu_2004_runs_on_lg_gram_17/)

I am attaching examples of the ACPI errors I get in syslog.
Also I am posting the system info from Ubuntu.
uname -a says:
```
Linux ABGram 6.5.0-15-generic #15~22.04.1-Ubuntu SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Fri Jan 12 18:54:30 UTC 2 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

I asked LG about linux support for this notebook. The reply was short and disappointing: LG GRAM 17Z90R comes with working Windows 11. Linux is not supported.

Can anyone help me with this problem? I would be thankful for any hint. Even if I have to come to the conclusion that I cannot run linux on this notebook.

Regards,
Alex

[IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=293383&stc=1[/IMG][ATTACH]293384[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2024-02-03
abrietz; Hello :D

I can think of 2 things that "might" help.
1) Install the latest bios update from the manufacturer -
2)  Change the DSDT (Differentiated Services Description Table)
[http://iam.tj/prototype/enhancements/Windows-acpi_osi.html](http://iam.tj/prototype/enhancements/Windows-acpi_osi.html)

[INDENT]maybe - just maybe
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by abrietz on 2024-02-18
Hi Bashing-om,

thx for your reply. I tried to follow your hints.
Unfortunately there is/was no BIOS upgrade for my hardware so I could not upgrade and kept the current version.
With the ACPI settings I used the script from your provided link. It did not change anything in regard to the ACPI errors in syslog.
I tried with several other Windows versions with no change in effect so I switched back to the latest version which in my case is Windows 2015.

Anything else I could do or try?

Regards,
Alex

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2024-02-18
abrietz; Well - Not :(

Another I can think of is the graphic's driver. I once experienced similar issues - installing a Nvidia proprietary driver resolved for my case.
So; what is the driver state:
```

sudo lshw -C display

```

[INDENT]poke'n in the dark
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by abrietz on 2024-02-29
I think that doesn't apply in my case with an Intel GPU:

```

  *-display                 
       Beschreibung: VGA compatible controller
       Produkt: Intel Corporation
       Hersteller: Intel Corporation
       Physische ID: 2
       Bus-Informationen: pci@0000:00:02.0
       Logischer Name: /dev/fb0
       Version: 04
       Breite: 64 bits
       Takt: 33MHz
       Fähigkeiten: pciexpress msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom fb
       Konfiguration: depth=32 driver=i915 latency=0 mode=2560x1600 resolution=2560,1600 visual=truecolor xres=2560 yres=1600
       Ressourcen: iomemory:600-5ff iomemory:400-3ff irq:180  memory:6000000000-6000ffffff memory:4000000000-400fffffff  ioport:4000(Größe=64) memory:c0000-dffff memory:4010000000-4016ffffff  memory:4020000000-40ffffffff

```

Any other, further tries?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2024-02-29
abrietz; Well - not ?

> 
Any other, further tries?


As another poke in the dark - 22.04.4 is out - how about seeing if an update from the .3 release has a fix ?
```

sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade

```

wherein the GA kernel in this .4 release is now: 5.15.0-97-generic
 (HWE kernel will be that of 23.10)

[INDENT]good things can happen
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by abrietz on 2024-03-02
You put a question mark behind your "not", so you think I should try a closed source Intel GPU driver?

I will try the update to 22.04.4 but I don't have much faith in that solving my problem. I tried 23.10 before and it had the same problems. But we will see, I'll post an update.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2024-03-02
abrietz -

That question mark after not above as an indication that maybe a new kernel will make a difference,

> 
Do you think I should try a closed source Intel GPU driver?

No. Intel provides the driver in the kernel as is. One would have to be way out to attempt an out-of-tree driver install on Intel. Intel just works&#8482; :D

[INDENT]Hey, It could happen
[/INDENT]

---

