---
title: "10.04: suspend not working on ASUS K70I"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kirol on 2010-05-07
I have upgraded 9.10 -> 10.04 on an ASUS X70I laptop. 
When resuming from "suspend to ram", the keyboard is not active, hence I cannot login or work with the system. 

I have noticed that by installing the "uswsusp" package, I can use the s2ram command and resuming works alright - but how to make it work from the defualt/standard GUI elements is beyond me.

The system's BIOS options seem to be *very* limited, at least when I compare to most desktop systems.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-07
try: sudo dpkg --configure -a

sudo dpkg-reconfigure pm-utils

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1444822](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1444822)

---

### Post by ndstate on 2010-05-07
I was having a similar problem.  Swap was not mounting automatically.. is your swap mounting automatically?

free -m

---

### Post by kirol on 2010-05-08
Thank you both for the suggestions.

@dino: I have tried the "dpkg" commands but they don't seem to help. I still have to carefully read the thread you were linking.

@pmp6nl: I have slightly more swap space than physical ram (4GB), and hibernate is working, but suspend is not.

Now, I received a new kernel yesterday and it seems now suspend sometimes works, albeit unpredictably. I also noticed pushing the power button does not invoke the logout/suspend/hibernate/shutdown dialogue anymore...

---

### Post by ndstate on 2010-05-08
Mine is also only working sometimes... hummm.  If I find a solution Ill post it.

---

### Post by mhampson on 2010-05-09
> **kirol said:**
> I have noticed that by installing the "uswsusp" package, I can use the s2ram command and resuming works alright - but how to make it work from the defualt/standard GUI elements is beyond me.


sudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/00sleep_module


and follow the instructions there

---

### Post by kirol on 2010-05-13
> **mhampson said:**
> sudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/00sleep_module
Thanks I've tried that and set SUSPEND_MODULE="swsusp" but I am not sure it took effect:
[LIST]
[*]if suspending from the menu or by closing the lid, I get a login prompt on resume (yet the keyboard sometimes does not work)
[*]if suspending via the command line ("s2ram --force", I do not have to provide a passsword. Unfortunately it now seems that even in this case, the keyboard does not always work
[/LIST]

---

