---
title: "IDE to SATA bootable?"
date: 2010-11-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-11-09
My motherboard, K8T Neo-FIS2R (old) has 4 SATA ports - I think 2 are supposed to be for RAID, but the thing is I've never been able to get it to boot from a SATA device - I always have to use an IDE device.

Since most if not all drives anymore are SATA, I was thinking of getting one of the adapters you plug into your motherboard IDE port to get SATA ports (not the adapter that goes on at the drive end).  I know I'll still be restricted by the IDE channel speed, etc., but am I correct in thinking that at least then I should be able to boot a SATA device, since it will appear as an IDE device to the system?

Thanks in advance!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2010-11-11
Well, an answer of sorts.

The manufacturers tech support said it would work and boot as long as you don't just plug a disk in without formatting it first.  Since it would be a new drive, I decided to get a SATA drive and the adapter on sale.  Put the drive in, put the adapter in, no boot.  USB started acting funny.

Removed adapter, plugged IDE cable back in.

Plugged the SATA drive cable into the drive 1 port for the built-in Via SATA - try to boot, no SATA device shows (yes the Via SATA controller is enabled in the BIOS).

Unplugged the SATA drive cable from the Via port and plug it into the drive 1 port to the also built-in Promise SATA controller.  Disabled the Via SATA controller in the BIOS.  During boot, the Promise BIOS start up says it found the drive ( I had an XP install disk in the CD drive) and it let me change the boot order to include Promise SATA Raid 0 (I only have the one SATA drive).  Tried to let it boot the Windows XP disk - gave me an error saying virus on boot sector (I have never seen this before) apparently with the new drive.  I pressed return a few times and it eventually decided to boot from the CD.  But.....Windows said no disk was found to install to.

So, I'm thinking I'll plug in my external USB drive that I have backups on generated by Macrium Reflect - supposedly you can restore to any drive as long as it is at least as big as the original drive.  So, I put in the Linux-based Macrium Reflect recovery CD - and it doesn't see the SATA drive.  in the mean time, my USB seems really messed up now.

Now I plug the SATA drive back into the VIA port, try enabling it in the BIOS, and letting it just boot my Windows install (dual-boot with Ubuntu, but was just more comfortable with Windows at this point).  Well, at init it sees my USB keyboard and mouse.  Windows starts - my mouse and keyboard disapear.  I end up unplugging them from the motherboard ports and connecting them to an add-on USB 2.0 card (never had any problem with this).  Of course this means I have to wait for Windows to boot far enough in the background (I'm stuck on a login screen I can't answer because of the keyboard) that it initializes the "external" USB (the ports on the adapter card).  At that point my mouse and keyboard work again.

So, I have an IDE to SATA adapter that plugs into the motherboard IDE port that won't let my system boot.  It also seems to have messed up my motherboard some since none of the built-in USB ports wants to work right.  I have a SATA hard disk that is only recognized by the BIOS and the Promise controller BIOS, but not by Windows or the Linux-based Macrium Reflect recovery procedure.

So the end result is that I started with a working system, now have a system that is acting funny on all of the built-in USB, an IDE to SATA adapter that does me no good and a SATA hard drive that does me no good.  In other words, I'm out money and also appear to have messed up my motherboard.  This for someone on Social Security Disability, so I had to save for quite a long time for this anyway.  Now it looks like I may need a new motherboard, and mine is old enough that now I'll need to get a new processor and new memory to go on a new motherboard.

All in all, a disaterous adventure.

Dave ;(

---

