---
title: "configure Intel Xpress display driver"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by XPsux on 2008-12-22
hello everyone,
im fairly new to ubuntu. everything seems to be working fine. i hav an Intel 82945G Xpress Chipset family graphics card. Although i have 
1280 X 1024 resolution, i have poor video quality(screen flickers). I have been trying to configure my display driver but am having no luck. "System>Administration>Hardware Drivers" does not show any drivers as well. Please help!!
Thanx!!

P.S: "$ sudo lshw -C display" gives the following result:
 *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: msi pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0

---

### Post by densou on 2008-12-22
on a prompt window type: sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
then type the root password

you must have something similar to [http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new](http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new) and not a generic config (if it is generic a bunch of lines are written, no more ;) )

---

### Post by XPsux on 2008-12-23
> **densou said:**
> on a prompt window type: sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
then type the root password

you must have something similar to [http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new](http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new) and not a generic config (if it is generic a bunch of lines are written, no more ;) )


Dear Densou,
the link provided is not working. Here is my xorg.conf file contents:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Hope this helps! Please

---

### Post by densou on 2008-12-23
> **XPsux said:**
> the link provided is not working

it works if you open it on the same window or right-clicking on 'save as' .... I don't know why it doesn't work as pop-up (I think it's a crappy web-hosting)
 
> Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	**Driver		"vesa"**
EndSection

Vesa (named VGA under Windows-OS) driver is in use.
Replace your xorg.conf with mine (xorg.conf.new) or do a cut'n'paste :P

Let me suggest also to edit /etc/modules adding
```
agpgart
intel-agp
drm
```
if you don't see these lines. :popcorn:

---

### Post by XPsux on 2008-12-23
Thanx for all the help. But it still isn't workin. I had to rename the backup file and got the display working. Trouble remains. Any more sugestions is appreciated.
TY

---

### Post by XPsux on 2009-01-01
> **XPsux said:**
> Thanx for all the help. But it still isn't workin. I had to rename the backup file and got the display working. Trouble remains. Any more sugestions is appreciated.
TY

Since, i havn got a solution to my problem. I'm thinkin about rolling back to hardy heron or should I?
Does anyone know how to rollback from intrepid ibex to hardy heron?

---

### Post by densou on 2009-01-04
paste here your /var/log/syslog.0  :popcorn:

also your glxinfo could be helpful

---

### Post by XPsux on 2009-01-04
really appreciate ur help mate.
here's my glxinfo and the syslog.0 file u asked for; attached with thsi reply.

P.S: the 2nd file attached says syslog but it is syslog.0.........the one u askd for!!
thanx!

---

### Post by densou on 2009-01-05
oh crap, I need also your /var/log/Xorg.0.log :(

have you tried a simplified xorg.conf ? I checked Intrepid works better with a slim one rather than old mine. 
Only modify this 2 sections into:
```
Section "Device"
        Identifier 	"intel"
        Driver     	"intel"
	Option          "AccelMethod"   "EXA"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier 	"Default Screen"
	Device 		"intel"
EndSection
```

Are you using (monitor) CRT, LCD (laptop panel or desktop), TV with which link (VGA, HDMI, DVI,....) ?

Advice: edit your /etc/apt/sources.list adding at the bottom these lines:
```
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/intel-gfx-testing/ubuntu intrepid main
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/intel-gfx-testing/ubuntu intrepid main
```
it'll provide Intel stable upgrades unless you'd like to switch to WIP Jaunty (not recommended)

---

### Post by XPsux on 2009-01-06
i've tried the modification u provided. doesn work! WHAT PACKAGE AM I SUPPOSED TO INSTALL FROM THE GIVEN REPO? in the meantime, here's the /var/log/Xorg.0.log attached.
thnx for all the effort again.

N btw, i have a LCD screen desktop.

P.S: If there's any linux distro that accepts the card i have, please recommend!

---

### Post by densou on 2009-01-12
> **XPsux said:**
> i've tried the modification u provided. doesn work! WHAT PACKAGE AM I SUPPOSED TO INSTALL FROM THE GIVEN REPO?

only *libdrm* and *xserver-xorg-video-intel* {it's not required to the same package with -dbg at the end}

> N btw, i have a LCD screen desktop.

whoops pardon, LCD option works if you desire to set a fixed resolution (not suggested if monitor is well auto-detected)  

> P.S: If there's any linux distro that accepts the card i have, please recommend!

openSuse 11.1 live cd (my favourite distro) does well, I don't think the installer could worsen the auto-detection. (not sure about latest fedora live-cd because it uses Mesa 7.3-devel - it's the module for 3d rendering- while 7.3-rc1 appeared just few days ago!) 

Some distros can offer 'migration' from another one, I forgot if openSuse can do it from Ubuntu

---

