---
title: "NTFS USB Disk not writable?"
date: 2009-02-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nicoloks on 2009-02-21
Hi All,

I have a 300GB USB 2.0 disk formatted using NTFS, and am trying to make it writable using my Mythbuntu 8.10 machine. I have NTFS-3G and NTFS-config loaded and set to enable write support on external device, however the disk remains in read only mode.

When looking at the output from the mount command, I get this;

> /dev/sda1 on / type ext3 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro)
tmpfs on /lib/init/rw type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
/proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
tmpfs on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=620)
fusectl on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
/dev/sdb1 on /media/Media type fuseblk (ro,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,blksize=512)

As you can see my USB disk is mounted to /media/Media in read only mode. How and where to I change this so I can write to the drive? Why is writing to an NTFS drive disabled by default? I thought it was considered safe now to write to NTFS partitions when using NTFS-3G?

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-02-21
Did you mount that drive, /dev/sdb1, with /etc/fstab?

```
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by nicoloks on 2009-02-21
No, it is automatically mounted when I plug the drive into the USB port. Being new to linux I'm not sure how that bit ticks yet. The following is the contents of my /etc/fstab ;

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=b81d7308-94ac-41b7-bdf0-f79cad493aa5 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=5b2c3c76-7078-4ae6-913d-b6ba82f6b6f5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0

I assume there must be a config file somewhere specifying the USB disk to be mounted in read only mode? I just have no idea where.

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-02-22
Try

```
sudo umount /media/Media
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb1 /media/Media
df -h
```

---

### Post by 0bso on 2009-02-22
If you open nautilus as root will it let you write to the drive?

sudo nautilus

Sounds like a permissions issue. If that lets you write to it then:

sudo chown -R user:user /media/Media
sudo chmod -R 755 /media/Media

---

