---
title: "10.10 - external display not detected"
date: 2010-10-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bflops on 2010-10-14
Hi Everyone,

I haven't used ubuntu in a while, but I wanted to get an old laptop up and running as a media center pc.  I got maverick installed successfully, but when I plug in my external display, the monitors control panel won't detect it. 

My graphics card is an integrated intel 945gm.

Any help would be appreciated!

---

### Post by rMatey on 2010-10-14
Just a question, more than an answer...
Did you go thru the Preferences>Monitors and detect the monitor??  There is also a small button to select/power on the monitor.

  If this doesn't help, try the monitor on another system.  Another cause could be a bad port.  Try someone else's monitor there.

---

### Post by rMatey on 2010-10-14
Another thought..  Does your keyboard have a function button to switch from CRT/LCD??  You might have to switch the output location.

---

### Post by bflops on 2010-10-14
Yes, I tried detecting the monitor, but nothing happens.  

I'm also confident that it's not an issue with the port, cable, or monitor, as the exact same hardware was working fine with Windows 7 this morning.

What is of interest is that upon plugging in the monitor, it displays "New Input Detected", then goes back to "No Signal".  Also, when using my keyboard shortcut ( Fn+F8 ) to toggle monitors, the laptop screen flickers a bit.  Still no sign of an external monitor in the Monitors Preference Panel.

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by Xavier_To on 2010-10-29
> **bflops said:**
> Yes, I tried detecting the monitor, but nothing happens.  

I'm also confident that it's not an issue with the port, cable, or monitor, as the exact same hardware was working fine with Windows 7 this morning.

What is of interest is that upon plugging in the monitor, it displays "New Input Detected", then goes back to "No Signal".  Also, when using my keyboard shortcut ( Fn+F8 ) to toggle monitors, the laptop screen flickers a bit.  Still no sign of an external monitor in the Monitors Preference Panel.

Thanks for your help!


Did you ever find a solution to your problem? i'm having the exact same thing...

---

### Post by Johannlynx on 2010-12-07
> **Xavier_To said:**
> Did you ever find a solution to your problem? i'm having the exact same thing...

same problem here , mine detects the monitor says something about philips but there's no image on my tv , i'm using hdmi cable , i know there's no problems in my laptop cuz i watch movies using windows 7

---

### Post by msnmatt08 on 2010-12-21
I'm having the EXACT same issue. I have a feeling Ubuntu is seeing the video/graphics cards/drivers differently than Windows did. There must be a way to fix this, its not like we changed the hardware, it's all compatible, its just a matter of the OS seeing and detecting it.

---

### Post by luisrpp on 2010-12-22
I was able to use the external monitor using the Nvidia Configuration tool, but the toggle display key is not working.

---

### Post by filosofic on 2011-03-26
Same problem here with a LG R405 Laptop with ATI Radeon Xpress 1250 Video Card.  Works fine running Win7, but boot into 10.10, no signal.  

Maybe something about ATI graphics cards.

---

### Post by Cereus on 2011-04-28
Here's another voice to the chorus of me to's.

I have an eeePC 901 (and a Toshiba) and both recognized the external monitor with 10.04. However, now that I'm running 10.10 I can plug in the external monitor and it is not even detected. 

I try toggling with the keyboard button and the "Detect monitors" in monitor preferences and also starting the computer with the monitor plugged in but nothing. 

The laptops just don't see another monitor is attached and if they don't even recognize anything is plugged in I just don't know how to fix it.

Thanks,
cereus

-- update (29.04.2011) When I connect my EeePC to a projector then it detects the projector fine and I can have dual displays. I'm really confused why it isn't detecting my other monitor and would love help on where to start trying to fix this.

---

### Post by Cereus on 2011-05-03
Another update on the monitor question, the external monitor in question is an HP2309m and when I connect a Thinkpad (running windows) it detects the monitor (when you toggle it) but again the EeePC 901 running Ubuntu 10.10 does not.

Does anyone have any recommendations about how to get the monitor to be recognized? If I knew a way to start working on the problem I could do better searches and start to figure things out but I don't even know how to start.

Thanks,
Cereus

---

### Post by WeldingMarathon on 2011-05-06
Same for me too. I have an Asus 1201N. I'm using the recommended NVIDIA driver but not Unity. Neither the System|Preferences|Monitors tool or the nvidia-settings tools can detect the monitor.

I've tried a few different ones too, Fujitsus, LG etc.

---

### Post by benjohn on 2011-05-12
I am using 11.04 ubuntu, I have the problemof the external projector not detecting at all. I can Work with the projector in the DualBoot Mode in Windows 7. port- noproblem.
I amusing an Hp Pavilion Laptop and the Projector is Hitachi CP 308, was working in 10.10, but in 11.04 it doesnt detect nor does it use the Funtion Keys F4 key doesnt shoe any effect,but the Other Fn Keys are working

---

### Post by nutsy.ben on 2011-11-09
SAme problem here with an Alienware 

Amazingly the wallpaper appears during a really brief time on the external monitor

---

### Post by DeloreanFanatic on 2011-12-10
I am running Ubuntu 11.04 on a Dell XPS M1710 and I'm having the same problem as everyone else with a Viewsonic monitor.  I hit detect displays and nothing happens

can anyone help please?:confused:

---

### Post by ohnoplus on 2011-12-22
Me too.  Running 11.10 on an Acer Aspire 5000 laptop with an Acer (Model # G215H) LCD Monitor.

---

### Post by srihari29691 on 2012-01-30
Me too! Mee tooo! :(

---

### Post by srihari29691 on 2012-01-30
OK, so i went through [1] and [2]...
and suddenly... it worked! :)

i installed disper and did something with xrandr...
if i find out what i did exactly, ill let you know!

[1] [http://thecodecentral.com/2011/03/01/switch-to-external-monitor-connected-via-hdmivga-port-in-ubuntu](http://thecodecentral.com/2011/03/01/switch-to-external-monitor-connected-via-hdmivga-port-in-ubuntu)

[2] [http://milindshakya.tumblr.com/tagged/external-monitor-ubuntu-ati-radeon-hd-6750M](http://milindshakya.tumblr.com/tagged/external-monitor-ubuntu-ati-radeon-hd-6750M)

---

