---
title: "Almost got the radeon 9600 installed!! Need lil more assistance!!"
date: 2010-05-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mycelia on 2010-05-29
Okay guys, I went home I think I did make some progress on getting it installed.  I did 'sudo apt-get install xorg-drivers-fglrx' and installed them.  I then activated my proprietary drivers as well.  My screen WAS in low graphics mode, but now that I have these drivers installed somewhat, it went out of low graphics mode.  I did do, aticonfig --initial --input=/etc/X11/xorg.conf after the installation.

Here's a copy of my xorg.conf file:


# xorg.conf.failsafe (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
#Section "Monitor"
#    Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
#EndSection
#Section "Screen"
#    Identifier "Default Screen"
#    Device     "Configured Video Device"
#    Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
#    DefaultDepth    24
#EndSection
#Section "Device"
#    Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
#    Driver      "vesa"
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
    Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
    Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Here's where I get lost.


'fglrxinfo'

red@outpost:~$ fglrxinfo
X Error of failed request:  BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  158 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  19 (X_GLXQueryServerString)
  Serial number of failed request:  10
  Current serial number in output stream:  10
red@outpost:~$

^^^^^that's what confuses me^^^^^


Does anyone have any bright ideas to help me get through this?

(Ubuntu 8.10 - 2.6.27-17-generic)

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-05-29
Are you saying that you don't have any working graphics now by using the new drivers?

If that's the case, you can use the ATi open source video driver instead. Change driver from fglrx to ati fixes it.

Make a note on what version of the ATi video driver you are trying to get working now, it's important in order for us to try and see what's wrong with this.

---

### Post by mycelia on 2010-05-29
Well, I expected for the fglrxinfo command to display the expect output about my graphics card but comes up with that error.  So I figured the fglrx drivers aren't working.  And I cannot even do glxgears.  

'glxgears' gives me:

red@outpost:~/Desktop$ glxgears
X Error of failed request:  BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  158 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  19 (X_GLXQueryServerString)
  Serial number of failed request:  10
  Current serial number in output stream:  10

I *need the fglrx drivers and it seems to not be working... >.!!*

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-05-29
glxgears needs mesa-utils installed.  I don't think it is anything to do with fglrx.

---

