---
title: "Ati 3850 agp 512"
date: 2011-03-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by heavyhanded on 2011-03-23
Is anyone here using this graphics card?  I've recently installed 10.10 and while it works OK it seems like it's not performing that great... 

Does anyone have this card working 100%?

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2011-03-23
By default Ubuntu uses the open source video drivers, they are slower. [Download from the AMD website]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx") or activate the non-free drivers from your Ubuntu system.

---

### Post by heavyhanded on 2011-03-23
I am using the ati driver. I used the restricted activation tool.  Can anyone tell me if this card has known issues?  It is the AGP 3850, that isn't actually supported by ATI, but made by a third party (sapphire).  I've done quite a bit of searching but cannot find much.

---

### Post by heavyhanded on 2011-03-23
By the way, perhaps my first post made it sound like I am upgrading to Ubuntu 10.10 however this is a fresh install and my first time trying any Linux with this particular graphics card. 

I am more curious if there is any success at all with any configuration of Linux and this card, since it seems to be a bit of an oddball being a PCI-E chip set bodged on to AGP.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-03-24
> **heavyhanded said:**
>  It is the AGP 3850, that isn't actually supported by ATI, but made by a third party (sapphire).
 
that doesn't matter. it is supprted by ATI since AMD/ATI doesn't actually make cards anymore i think. they just make chips.
 
As propposed try to uninstall the driver and use a newer one from their website.
I know that 3650 works nicely. even with opensource drivers.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2011-03-24
According to the AMD website, the card is not supported! If he had an PCI express card, that would be another story.

To me it seems you are either stuck with the open source video driver or that you try out the pci express driver, hmm... What non-free driver did you choose? And can you describe what you mean with the low performance issues? Are you able to play any heavy Linux games?

(I recommend you stick with the open source video driver..)

---

### Post by heavyhanded on 2011-03-24
Yes, I think I'll try the open source driver again. 

I don't plan on doing any 3d stuff anyway, just want to do some programming etc.. but it is slow drawing on the screen and makes it annoying to use.  

Thanks for the help and responses.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2011-03-24
You can always create a new test system using Ubuntu "Natty" and see how well that distribution can use your graphics card. Because the RADEON driver uses the newer [Galium3D]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gallium3d") technology for faster performance.

Or wait until Natty get's released.

---

### Post by heavyhanded on 2011-03-24
Thanks for the tip I might check out testing an alpha of Natty.

BTW, the open source driver works a lot better with this card.  At least for 2d.  Much more functional anyway.

---

### Post by Darthfather on 2011-07-20
Hello 
I'm very new to Ubuntu and very new to this forum as well. I have (apparently) the same problem as the thread-starter.
I've just installed a fresh version of Ubuntu 10.04 and I only had 2 problems: the Creative Audigy SB0240 wasn't supported until I've installed Gnome ASA mixer and the video card (Saphire Radeon HD 3850 AGP) seems to lack hardware acceleration. The ATI Catalist driver I've installed doesn't seem to support AGP products (or something). So, while the system seems to work just fine with this driver I cannot play any .avi file without having pixelations, unexpected pauses, sound droppings, etc. 
I've used the System Testing Module and it has generated a report that says this:
VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc RV670 AGP [Radeon HD 3850] [1002:9515]
    Subsystem: PC Partner Limited Device [174b:0028]
    Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
    Status: Cap+ 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
    Latency: 32 (2000ns min), Cache Line Size: 32 bytes
    Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 16
    Region 0: Memory at e0000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
    Region 1: I/O ports at 9000 [size=256]
    Region 2: Memory at f9000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64K]
    [virtual] Expansion ROM at f8000000 [disabled] [size=128K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: fglrx_pci
    Kernel modules: fglrx, radeon
...................................................................
blacklist radeon
...................................................................
blacklist aty128fb
blacklist atyfb
blacklist radeonfb
I'd love to keep Ubuntu but I have to get rid of this annoying problem. I don't plan to play any games on Ubuntu but (at least) I'd like to take advantage of its "eye candy" features and (of course) to see movies on it.
 I'm new to Linux so, please be nice. 
Thank you very much.

---

