---
title: "Fujitsu T1010 touchscreen and Kubuntu experience"
date: 2008-09-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Stefanwulf on 2008-09-03
Hi all,

I just got a Fujitsu lifebook T1010 tablet ([http://www.computers.us.fujitsu.com/www/products_notebooks.shtml?products/notebooks/tech_specs/t1010_ts](http://www.computers.us.fujitsu.com/www/products_notebooks.shtml?products/notebooks/tech_specs/t1010_ts)) about a week ago.  It's a great little machine for those who want a cheap tablet with an optical drive, and so immediately upon unboxing it I tried to install Kubuntu Hardy Heron.

I had to install in safe graphics mode, which left me running a vesa driver with low resolution.  In addition to video acceleration, the touchscreen and wifi weren't working.  Other than that, however, the basics all seemed to be there out of the box, and it was at least a useable system.  As a result, I set about seeing if I could get this new piece of hardware up and running as a fully functional tablet pc.

It turns out there are solutions for the wifi (iwlwifi-5000-ucode-5.4.A.11), and ostensibly a solution for the GMA4500 video driver (although I haven't gotten to that one yet, as it involves a kernel upgrade from what I can tell).  What I haven't been able to find is any kind of driver for the touchscreen, which is a passive resistance model rather than the more common active models that work with wacom drivers.

A call to Fujitsu tech support resulted in claims that Fujitsu themselves manufactured the touchscreen, rather than buying it from a third party.  The same representative, however, claimed that it was the exact same model used in the Stylistic 4120p, which later turned out to be less than completely accurate, as far as I can tell.

Operating on the assumption that it was the same model, I installed the patched fpit driver referenced at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FujitsuStylisticST4000](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FujitsuStylisticST4000) and set it up as per those instructions, but to no avail.  That's when I noticed I had an extra /dev/hidraw0 and /dev/usb/hiddev0 sitting around on my box.  I tried cat-ing these, and determined that they both in fact spew output when I touch the screen, so I currently believe that the touchscreen in the T1010 communicates over USB rather than serial.

Hopeful (and perhaps naive), I simply modified my xorg.conf to point to these devices instead of /dev/ttyS0 in the touchscreen section.  This produced only random motion and clicks when the screen was touched, leading me to the conclusion that the T1010's touchscreen uses a different protocol for communicating events as well.

This brings me to my current situation.  It seems like it shouldn't be too hard for me to modify the patched xf86Fpit.c that I grabbed from  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FujitsuStylisticST4000](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FujitsuStylisticST4000) in order to properly parse the data coming in over the usb device (either hidraw0 or hiddev0).  The file in its default state is definitely getting input from the device and translating it to mouse events, it's just not translating properly.

All I need to do is figure out what format the data is being sent in, and this is where I'm hoping against hope someone familiar with touchscreen drivers might come to my rescue and provide a few pointers.

I have hex dumps of the data from hiddev0 via dog, but they are too large to attach to the message as text files, so I'm attaching a pared-down dump with only the hex data (no ascii equivalent, etc) and only part of the dump.  It was generated by touching the stylus in the upper-left corner of the screen and dragging it along the top edge to the upper-right corner (although this dump will cut off before the upper-right corner is reached)

I've noticed that if I treat FFFFFF as a delimiter, I get a common repeating sequence of 
```


FFFFFF
XXXX 0000 -- 3100 0100 - XXXX 0000
4200 0D00 - 0100 0000 -- 4400 0D00 - 0000 0000
3C00 0D00 - 0000 0000 -- 4500 0D00 - 0000 0000
3200 0D00 - 0100 0000 -- 3000 0100
FFFFFF
XXXX 0000
FFFFFF

```
where XXXX represents a variable bit of hex.  This is where I think I'm most likely to find coordinate information.  

The sequence isn't exactly repeating, however, and often I will find extra FFFFFF's or long sections with no FFFFFF's.  If all the FFFFFF's are discarded I basically find:
```

XXXX 0000 -- 3100 0100 - XXXX 0000
4200 0D00 - 0100 0000 -- 4400 0D00 - 0000 0000
3C00 0D00 - 0000 0000 -- 4500 0D00 - 0000 0000
3200 0D00 - 0100 0000 -- 3000 0100

```
as the structure throughout the piece.  I'll keep working on this, and post any progress I make (assuming this is the right place), but I wanted to give people a chance to tell me if I'm going about this wrong, or working on a problem that's already been solved.

Regards,

Stefan

---

### Post by Stefanwulf on 2008-09-04
Alright, I think I have the data format.  Or at least enough to try and cobble together a driver.  As I said above, once you strip out the constant repeating patterns and the FFFFFF's, you get a lot of:

```
XXXX 0000 3100 0100 YYYY 0000
```

seperated by the repeating patterns that were just stripped.  The XXXX's are variable data, and represents the X position in a BIG-ENDIAN way, which is what initially threw me.  The left-hand side of the screen for me is D900 and the right hand side is CB0E, based on a single test run with the stylus.

As you may have guessed, the YYYY is the Y-axis data, also big-endian.  The top of my screen is 6301 and the bottom of the screen is AC0F.

Since this is a passive display and there are no buttons on the stylus, it seems to me that this gives me everything I need to handle mouse events.  If no data is coming in, then mouse is up.  When data starts, we have a mousedown at an absolute position.  Then, and while data continues, we extract absolute coordinates from the stream and update the cursor position.  When data stops, that's a mouseup.  Should be relatively simple.  I'll post here with the results of my attempts to modify fpit, unless anyone who reads this has a better idea for what I should do.

---

### Post by pencilo on 2008-12-12
> **Stefanwulf said:**
> Alright, I think I have the data format.  Or at least enough to try and cobble together a driver.  As I said above, once you strip out the constant repeating patterns and the FFFFFF's, you get a lot of:

```
XXXX 0000 3100 0100 YYYY 0000
```

seperated by the repeating patterns that were just stripped.  The XXXX's are variable data, and represents the X position in a BIG-ENDIAN way, which is what initially threw me.  The left-hand side of the screen for me is D900 and the right hand side is CB0E, based on a single test run with the stylus.

As you may have guessed, the YYYY is the Y-axis data, also big-endian.  The top of my screen is 6301 and the bottom of the screen is AC0F.

Since this is a passive display and there are no buttons on the stylus, it seems to me that this gives me everything I need to handle mouse events.  If no data is coming in, then mouse is up.  When data starts, we have a mousedown at an absolute position.  Then, and while data continues, we extract absolute coordinates from the stream and update the cursor position.  When data stops, that's a mouseup.  Should be relatively simple.  I'll post here with the results of my attempts to modify fpit, unless anyone who reads this has a better idea for what I should do.

Hello, I just got a T1010 and was wondering if you have made any progress on this.
Thanks,
Pencilo

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-01-14
I ordered a T1010 a few days ago. If I have an issues with the touch screen / resolutions I will be sure to post here

---

### Post by pencilo on 2009-01-14
> **vertago1 said:**
> I ordered a T1010 a few days ago. If I have an issues with the touch screen / resolutions I will be sure to post here

There are no existing drives for the T1010 touchscreen, however everything else worked out of the box(though you will need the 2.6.27 kernel because it adds the wifi support). If you need any help with getting it working, PM me.

I guess since the OP hasn't responded, I will go write the drivers myself and post them here once I'm done.

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-01-16
> **pencilo said:**
> There are no existing drives for the T1010 touchscreen, however everything else worked out of the box(though you will need the 2.6.27 kernel because it adds the wifi support). If you need any help with getting it working, PM me.

I guess since the OP hasn't responded, I will go write the drivers myself and post them here once I'm done.

I installed kubuntu 8.10 and performed a full update so far so good minus the touch screen. The wireless works but it will not connect to the PEAP network I use most of the time using the native driver just like my desktop which has an edimax card.

I am still trying to get wacdump to display anything from /dev/hidraw0 or from /dev/usb/hiddev0. I certainly appreciate any effort towards a working driver and I don't mind contributing but I don't know where to start as far as writing drivers.

---

### Post by pencilo on 2009-01-16
> **vertago1 said:**
> I installed kubuntu 8.10 and performed a full update so far so good minus the touch screen. The wireless works but it will not connect to the PEAP network I use most of the time using the native driver just like my desktop which has an edimax card.

I am still trying to get wacdump to display anything from /dev/hidraw0 or from /dev/usb/hiddev0. I certainly appreciate any effort towards a working driver and I don't mind contributing but I don't know where to start as far as writing drivers.
I doubt wacdump will do anything with them, try using hexdump.

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-01-16
> **pencilo said:**
> I doubt wacdump will do anything with them, try using hexdump.

Hexdump works, thanks. Is there anything I could to to help speed up the driver writing process? For example, working on which bits mean what?

---

### Post by pencilo on 2009-01-16
> **vertago1 said:**
> Hexdump works, thanks. Is there anything I could to to help speed up the driver writing process? For example, working on which bits mean what?
The posts by OP show how the data is, find out the max/min x and y of your screen.

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-01-18
nvm, see next page

---

### Post by ph84 on 2009-03-13
Hi there! 
Maybe we could use our Touchscreen without writing a driver: I just booted Open Solaris as i've heard that the Touchscreen  works there and indeed - The T1010 can be touched ;-) 
But im not eager  to learn solaris, maybe there is a way to port the driver? Somebody more experienced than me? 
Im gonna try some other Live Systems... just checking. :)

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-03-16
using XWarpPointer and fopen I was able to cobble together an app to move the curser using the touch screen.

[COLOR="Silver"]I am going to work on implementing clicks next, I will probably track a system timer if I can find the code for it. EDIT: Got the timing ready for clicks, I need to find the function to call the mouse down, and mouse up events[/COLOR] Edit: Clicks are now implemented and work properly

I am somewhat of a linux newb so I don't know how to open the device without root access, if it segment faults it is because it doesn't have privileges to open the /dev/hidraw0

Here is the source:
> //g++ -pthread -lX11 -lXtst -L/usr/X11R6/include t1010touch.cpp -otdriver.o
#include <X11/Xlib.h>
#include <X11/extensions/XTest.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <iostream>
#include <pthread.h>

#define minX 55
#define maxX 3848 //3903 - 55
#define minY 234
#define maxY 3793 //4027 - 234
#define width 1280 //screen width
#define height 800 //screen height

int state = 0;
int mouse = 0;
//XEvent event;
Display *display;

void *timerThread(void *threadid)
{
    int lastState = state;
    timespec * rqtp;
    timespec * rmtp;
    while(true)
    {
        usleep(100000);
        if((state==0)&&(lastState==1))
        {
            mouse = 0;
            std::cout << "\n";
            XTestFakeButtonEvent(display, 1, 0, CurrentTime);
            XFlush(display);
        }
        lastState = state;
        state=0;
    }
}

int main()
{
    //X11 init
    Window root;
    Window child;
    XWindowAttributes root_attributes;
    display=XOpenDisplay(0);
    root = XRootWindow(display,0);
    XSelectInput(display,root,KeyReleaseMask);
    child = root;
    std::cout << "X11 ready!\n";

    //file input init
    char infile[] = "/dev/hidraw0";
    FILE *input;
    input = fopen(infile, "rb");
    std::cout << "file open!\n";

    //timer thread init
    pthread_t thread;
    pthread_attr_t attr;
    pthread_attr_init(&attr);
    pthread_create (&thread,&attr,timerThread,NULL);

    //state machine init
    int temp;
    unsigned int mask;
    int xr = 0, yr = 0;
    int xp = 0, yp = 0;
    int x = 0, y = 0;
    int count = 0;
    
    while(1)
    {
        temp = (int)getc(input);
        switch(count)
        {
            case 0:
                if((temp!=0x21)&&(temp!=0x20))
                    count--;
                break;
            case 1:
                x |= temp;
                break;
            case 2:
                x |= temp << 8;
                break;
            case 3:
                y |= temp;
                break;
            case 4:
                y |= temp << 8;
                std::cout << "\r(" << x << "," << y << ")\t";
                x = (int)((double)(x-minX)/maxX*width);
                y = (int)((double)(y-minY)/maxY*height);
                XQueryPointer(display, root, &root, &child, &xr, &yr, &xp, &yp, &mask);
                XGetWindowAttributes(display, root, &root_attributes);
                XWarpPointer(display, NULL, NULL, 0, 0, 0, 0, x-xp-root_attributes.x, y-yp-root_attributes.y);
                std::cout << " (" << x << "," << y << ")     ";
                if(mouse==0)
                {

                    mouse=1;
                    XTestFakeButtonEvent(display, 1, 1, CurrentTime);
                    XFlush(display);
                }
                x = 0;
                y = 0;
                state = 1;
                break;
            default:
                count=0;
                break;
        }
        count ++;
    }
    return 0;
}

---

### Post by gcai on 2009-04-08
vertago1, could you please explain how to use that code?

I saved it as t1010touch.cpp, then installed libx11-dev and libxtst-dev, and run:

	g++ -pthread -lX11 -lXtst -L/usr/X11R6/include t1010touch.cpp -otdriver.o

No error messages. Got a file called tdriver.o, what do I do with it? What else should I do?

Thanks

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-04-09
well when I execute it I go to the directory of the tdriver.o file and use the command:

sudo ./tdriver.o

I want to put a disclaimer here though. Anytime you run someones code as a root user you ought to have a good idea about what it does. I don't recommend running this on any computer except the fujitsu lifebook T1010, but it may work for other computers if they send the same data over usb.

if you notice the code has the line: char infile[] = "/dev/hidraw0";
this is the device the code opens. Your kernel must have already created this device for my code to work. If you are using one of the newer ubuntu distributions on a T1010 it should be there. If you don't run the program with sudo or root it gives a seg-fault because of the privileges on /dev/

If there is a way to run it without sudo or su root, please let me know.

Also, Note that at the top of the code there are some constants you can set to calibrate the program. You may want to comment out the lines which trigger the click events so that you can read the output on the screen for testing the min and max of your screen. I recommend using the top, and bottom center to measure the min and max Y, while using the left and right center to measure the min and max X. The first set of numbers is the output of the device, and the second set of numbers is the location the program will move the mouse to.

Edit: I plan on doing an update to it eventually to have an input for each corner of the touch pad and do a better mapping so that the calibration is better, but that will have to wait for when I have more free time.

---

### Post by gcai on 2009-04-13
Thanks a lot. It's working.  I only had to change the 1280 and 800 to my resolution:  1024 and 768.
You rock!

---

### Post by draco31.fr on 2009-07-12
Just to inform that an other driver is avaible here : [http://spareinfo.blogspot.com/2009/05/linux-on-u810-p1620-touchscreen-iv.html](http://spareinfo.blogspot.com/2009/05/linux-on-u810-p1620-touchscreen-iv.html)
A calibration script is also avaible, and screen rotation is also supported.

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-07-16
Thanks a ton, downloaded that other driver and got it installed, I am going to run the calibration script, but thanks for posting that link.

---

### Post by draco31.fr on 2009-07-16
As said in the last news on the spareinfo blog, you must use the version 3.5 of the source package to get the calibration working properly.
On my system, MaxX and MaxY displays always -1 in the calibration script with the previous version (3.4).

We don't know why I've got this behaviour on my Xubuntu 9.04, but the latest version is OK now.

---

### Post by azux on 2009-07-28
Hello,
I'd like to buy a **Fujitsu T1010**, so I searched some infos about this laptop on linux, but I didn't found anything except this site. Does somebody can tell me how it works on linux? It's a good notebook or should I search another?
Is the touchscreen really good working, no problems with the drivers?

Thank you!

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-07-29
I am running Kubuntu 9.04 x86_64 on mine, the function keys, acpi, and wireless work from install. If you want to get the touch screen to work you need to install the driver at the link here:
[QUOTE="draco31.fr"]Re: Fujitsu T1010 touchscreen and Kubuntu experience
Just to inform that an other driver is avaible here : [http://spareinfo.blogspot.com/2009/05/linux-on-u810-p1620-touchscreen-iv.html](http://spareinfo.blogspot.com/2009/05/linux-on-u810-p1620-touchscreen-iv.html)
A calibration script is also avaible, and screen rotation is also supported. [/QUOTE]

I was able to resize the vista partition and dual boot. I even moved both oses to a ssd later, but the recovery partition didn't migrate well. I haven't tried any other tablets with linux, but if you want to use the touch-screen there are softwares like Xournal and Gournal for taking notes, I might look into writing one for QT4 but I would have a learning curve to get over.

---

### Post by draco31.fr on 2009-08-02
After some adjustment, the laptop works perfectly.
On the first boot, when Vista installs itself, you can choose a minimal size of 50 Gio for the main Vista partition. The recovery partition must remain unchanged if you want to reinstall the laptop like it was out of the box (about 2 Gio).
A good point is that the hard drive have no tatoo.
A bad point is the touchscreen: as it is a passive digitalizer, you have only a single click stylus and no pressure effect.
You must search about Wacom's touchscreens if you wish use the laptop as a "painting" device. (I think the T5000 series is sold with such touchscreens)

As you see, I don't speak english very well, but if you speak french a little bit, you can read the report I've made on the ubuntu-fr wiki : [http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/fujitsu-siemens_lifebook_t1010](http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/fujitsu-siemens_lifebook_t1010)

There is also some non effective function keys like the volume keys but it is not very important for me, and I haven't searched a very long time about their configuration.
Another thing : I'm running Xubuntu 9.04, so maybe some behaviour are different on a Gnome or KDE desktop.

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-10-16
> **draco31.fr said:**
> Just to inform that an other driver is avaible here : [http://spareinfo.blogspot.com/2009/05/linux-on-u810-p1620-touchscreen-iv.html](http://spareinfo.blogspot.com/2009/05/linux-on-u810-p1620-touchscreen-iv.html)
A calibration script is also avaible, and screen rotation is also supported.

I am running the karmic beta and for a while the touch screen driver was still working well after running:
sudo make clean
make
sudo make install
To install it to each new kernel.

With the most recent kernel (2.6.31-14-generic) it seems to have broke. I don't get any errors so I am not sure how to troubleshoot it.

---

### Post by mn_voyageur on 2009-10-24
I have a son who does not speak, yet.  

I was looking for a tablet PC to use as a communication device.  

He is able to communicate using pictures and now is able to type.

Although I am new to Linux/Ubuntu, I do have a lot of computer background and a willingness to write code to get things to work.  (With a little help from my friends.)

I am a little confused in trying to determine the difference between a Ubuntu install and a Kubutu install?

Finally, how are things working on your Lifebooks?  I am looking at buying one.  Initiating a picture to speech software and moving to a text to speech option.

Any comments/suggestions would be appreciated.

Thanks,
MN

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2009-10-25
The primary difference between kubuntu and ubuntu is that ubuntu uses the gnome graphical interface and kubuntu uses the kde graphical interface. They share the same package repositories which means they download updates and additional software from the same source.

The nice thing about kde 4.0 (in kubuntu) is that it uses a c++ library called QT4 ([http://qt.nokia.com/]("http://qt.nokia.com/")) which is cross platform, so any software you write would be easier to port to windows and or mac.

I don't a whole lot about the built in accessibility tools but you could use a live CD to try them out on one of your computers without changing any of your software.

So far I have been very pleased with my Lifebook. Some of the minor features that make it superior to other portable computers I have used are the right angle power connector which keeps the cord from getting messed up, and the way it handles battery charging when the battery is close to fully charged (it will only start charging if the battery is under a certain level) which extends the life of the battery.

The performance on the T1010 is pretty good, I swapped the hard drive out for a ssd on mine for even more performance.

Xournal is a relatively good software for drawing / note-taking but for text to speech you probably ought to look at a free software called festival ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TextToSpeech]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TextToSpeech")).

---

