---
title: "10.04 on Asus N71J"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mmand on 2010-04-30
When I got the laptop I tried to install Karmic but it apparently doesn't have the right graphics card drivers. All I got was a blank screen, but could still hear the normal boot up sounds. The graphics card (GeForce GT325M) in this laptop is very, very new. That coupled with nvidia Optimus dedicated/integrated video card switching (I think that's what it does, anyway) causes this problem it appears.

Starting with Alpha 3 of Lucid, I was finally able to boot a live CD and see some graphics; even if things that are supposed to be transparent are purple and/or green. When Alpha 4 was released, it was like someone took all the text on screen and p&#477;dd&#305;l&#607; &#647;&#305; &#477;p&#305;sdn u&#653;op. It was a most...enjoyable...experience trying to fix it. I still have a screenshot around here somewhere if anyone wants it. This was fixed with the first RC.

After a restart, everything was working smoothly. I got the hardware drivers alert, telling me it was recommended to install the nvidia driver (not sure which version, I was kinda half paying attention to it). After rebooting again, I'm now back to where I was pre-Alpha 3: blank screen, but I can hear the boot sounds.

Posting this in part to warn other Asus N71J users, and in part asking if anyone knows of a fix. I've had a problem with this laptop since I've had it (brand new from the store) turning the screen off at random times during usage (while in Windows), so maybe it IS a hardware problem. Most other people I've talked to who own this laptop do not have this problem.

I should note that all of these OSes have been 64 bit; I have not tried 32 bit. Maybe I should? Even though I lose out on a bit of ram, [the]("http://usa.asus.com/product.aspx?P_ID=yHfFF3JMngIXEmMU") [laptop](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16834220706) is sufficiently powerful to make up for it.

Edit: For some reason the first link ("the" above) to the manufacturers page works only half the time...Added another one.

---

### Post by cepea on 2010-05-04
Hi mmand,

I recently bought the same model, aware of problems wrt dual graphic card! First thing off, Lucid Lynx seems not being stabilized yet, and this is not a particular issue related to Asus N71J. Choosing 64 bits or 32 bits leads to the same failure as the one you experienced. No clear solution found on the web for the moment being.

They are too many factors involved, so let go the easiest way for a start. I installed Karmic 32 bits without any problem... but possibly one wrt the graphic mode. If it fails, and you are given the opportunity to reconfigure the X11 server, take it. Then some file with name 'xorg.conf' should be written, maybe within the root directory '/'. Edit that file : you'll see TWO screens. Comment out the one (with number 1 ?) related with nvidia, install the file within '/etc/X11' and reboot. (To easy you setup, find mine version attached.)

You've got two disks, right? I guess you kept Windows installed within /dev/sda2? In that case, my advice to you would be to be let /dev/sda managed by Windows for the moment being, and take advantage of the /dev/sdb for expermenting Ubuntu, till everything go well. Also, keep separate the grub installation, with the extra cost of pressing the ESC key during bios execution.

If no *Unix* OS is running on your computer yet, it is quite easy to install Virtualbox (Sun) and take advantage of it to run as many experiments you'd like: if the installation works inside Virtualbox, even after several reboots, then be assured that everything will go exactly the same way from the 'outside', that is to say at boot time... At least that's my own experience with no exception so far.
Shortly speaking, my own Virtualbox recipe is ISO image + separate disk + boot from ISO image.

Obviously, in any case, you'll have to install manually the 'xorg.conf' file before launching Karmic from outside Windows, unless Xorg manages this issue without your control, that I did not try myself (I got too sick of all these failures with Lucid...)

I am replying to your from my own Asus N71J, under Karmic 32 bits on /dev/sdb. Next step for me is going to try Lucid 64 bits within Virtualbox (from my Ubuntu box), on an external SD card or external USB disk... until it succeeds! I warn you to never ever play with Virtualbox with a physical partition mounted and operated both by Virtualbox and your OS. But you can choose to create a disk within a special file. As I explained before, my approach is to experiment  first inside Virtualbox, and eventually reboot on the same installation, that the virtual disk option prevents.

Good luck,

---

### Post by mmand on 2010-05-04
Thanks for the reply.

The model I have doesn't have a second hard drive, but /dev/sda was partitioned already. I took the unused "data" partition and am using that for Ubuntu.

I will try your xorg.conf and let you know how it turns out. Thanks!

---

### Post by nortym on 2010-07-27
Hi
This thread is a bit dusty, but the problems are still here... i tryed both 10.04 and 10.10 and i've got problems in both...
Do anybody have a good sollution/driver that works on this machines with ubuntu?
Cheers

---

