---
title: "Network printer problems"
date: 2008-06-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mtryan on 2008-06-12
I'm having problems setting up a Ricoh Aficio 2238C. I ran system -> administration -> printing and chose to add a new printer and it seemed to detect the printer just fine. When prompted for a PPD driver I pointed it to the appropriate PPD file I'd tracked down. However, when I attempt to print, nothing comes out. This is the case when clicking the "print test page" button, or when trying to print from Firefox, StarOffice, or the text editor. I'm completely new to the Linux world and lost, so any advice would be greatly appreciated!

Update:

I opened [http://localhost:631/admin](http://localhost:631/admin) in Firefox and went through the appropriate steps. Same deal; the printer is detected, everything seems fine. I click "print test page" and it seems to go through with no issues, yet nothing ever comes out.

---

### Post by ktritty on 2009-04-23
> **mtryan said:**
> ...problems setting up a Ricoh Aficio 2238C... When prompted for a PPD driver I pointed it to the appropriate PPD file I'd tracked down. However, when I attempt to print, nothing comes out.

I am having the same trouble with Ricoh Aficio 2232C w/Post-Script card.  Printer set up with static IP, hooked up via wired ethernet.  I have attempted several PPD's for other Ricoh models, and some worked but only grayscale printing and single tray (need full color and multi-tray at my office).  URI set up as lpd://[IPv4 address] and is correct address and works on my Mac OSX computers.  Running Ubuntu 8.10 for workstation.

I have the debug log generated by troubleshooter while printing a test page as a .txt for anyone who will look at it.

Thank you very much for your help!

---

### Post by ktritty on 2009-05-09
SOLVED!

My case was not a Ubuntu Problem.

There was a default setting in the printer configuration (I logged on via the web admin utility) that was disabling a service that is used by CUPS.  So, even with the right PPD, it was crapping out.

I forget which setting it was, but go into the config menu, and you should be able to get what you need.

Maybe this will help others using the Afico Series

---

