---
title: "8.10 on an HP 2133 Mini-note: Observations"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by michealk on 2008-10-31
I've just done a fresh install of 8.10 on my HP 2133 Mini-note laptop (1.2 GHz, 120 gig HD, 1 gig RAM). The laptop testing team has updated their [HP2133 wiki page]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133") with some 8.10-related info, but I thought I'd share my observations here.

Install was done using an external USB cdrom. The 8.10 notes in the wiki don't mention having to pass xforcevesa as a kernel argument, but I found that I needed to do so.  If I didn't, the GUI seemed to freeze shortly after loading (but not with the typical white screen you see in 8.04). The good news is that I was able to remove xforcevesa from my grub config after everything was installed.

Sound works out of the box and the headphone fix required for 8.04 is no longer needed.

Onboard ethernet works without trouble, as expected.

Onboard wireless is also supported via a proprietary Broadcom STA driver that you can install thru the Hardware Drivers preference pane. You no longer have to use ndiswrapper, which is great. Even better: wifi works after a suspend/resume.

Video: I wasn't able to get the VIA drivers (built for 8.04) to work in 8.10. So right now I'm stuck with VESA graphics at 1280x720 - not the native resolution of the display. This is minorly annoying but I can live with it for now.

Anybody else have anything to add?

---

### Post by woodp on 2008-11-03
Similar positive experiences with 8.10 here as well. And in my case the target was the low-end KR922UT.

It was a joy to have wireless networking come up so easily, but I do look forward to better video drivers - My eyes just aren't as good as they used to be ...

---

### Post by woodp on 2008-11-03
> **woodp said:**
> I do look forward to better video drivers - My eyes just aren't as good as they used to be ...

Ask and you shall receive!

That was quick! New 8.10 video drivers (2D beta) have been published at [http://linux.via.com.tw/support/downloadFiles.action](http://linux.via.com.tw/support/downloadFiles.action) and installation worked similar to the 8.04 installation. Rebooting didn't bring up 1280x768 - For that I had to manually select System | Preferences | Screen Resolution

So far, so good!

---

### Post by michealk on 2008-11-03
> **woodp said:**
> New 8.10 video drivers (2D beta) have been published at [http://linux.via.com.tw/support/downloadFiles.action](http://linux.via.com.tw/support/downloadFiles.action)

That's great news! I had started to try and build their drivers from source, but being lazy, I'll just go grab the beta now.

---

### Post by xjgnsdof on 2008-11-03
I can't even boot into the OS, regardless of whether I input xforcevesa. See my sig for the 2133 model I have.

---

### Post by michealk on 2008-11-03
> **elgilicious said:**
> I can't even boot into the OS, regardless of whether I input xforcevesa. See my sig for the 2133 model I have.

What happens when you try? Are you booting from CD or flash drive? I have the 1.2 GHz model (KX869AT), so I'm not sure what other differences exist besides CPU and storage, neither of which should matter.

In my case, I'm booting off an external USB CD drive. I press F9 while the HP boots in order to get the boot device menu from the BIOS, and I select the CD. Next:

[LIST=1]
[*]Hit Enter for English install
[*]Select either "Install" or  "Try Ubuntu without any change to your computer" (both worked for me)
[*]Press F6
[*]Append "xforcevesa" without quotes onto the end of the boot string.
[*]Press return
[/LIST]

---

### Post by michealk on 2008-11-03
> **woodp said:**
> and installation worked similar to the 8.04 installation. Rebooting didn't bring up 1280x768 - For that I had to manually select System | Preferences | Screen Resolution


Following the instructions provided in the new 8.10 via drivers didn't work for me - what I ended up with was a screen that cycled through a series of test colours and patterns (red, green, blue, then alternating black/white stripes). I half-expected this to happen though, because the xorg.conf file that the via drivers install is somewhat ... sparse.

I grabbed a copy of the [xorg.conf]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=xorg.conf") file from the [8.04 installation instructions]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133") and dropped that into /etc/X11, and everything looks much better now.

---

### Post by woodp on 2008-11-03
> **michealk said:**
> I grabbed a copy of the [xorg.conf]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=xorg.conf") file from the [8.04 installation instructions]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133") and dropped that into /etc/X11, and everything looks much better now.

Sorry, I should have mentioned that - Yes, I grabbed the 8.04 xorg.conf as well.

---

### Post by Theril on 2008-11-04
There's some problems with xorg autoconfiguration with the 1024x600 panel even with the VIA's driver. It starts working after forcing the LCD, PanelID (updated to 17) and mode.  I'll post some xorg.conf instructions later and maybe update the ubuntu wiki page.

Edit: Oops, some old news.

---

### Post by valentinox on 2008-11-04
> **Theril said:**
> There's some problems with xorg autoconfiguration with the 1024x600 panel even with the VIA's driver. It starts working after forcing the LCD, PanelID (updated to 17) and mode.  I'll post some xorg.conf instructions later and maybe update the ubuntu wiki page.

Edit: Oops, some old news.

Yes, everything seems to be fine except this 1024x600 ussue. 
Please somebody post the correct xorg.conf settings. 
I tried to use my old xorg.conf settings from ubuntu 8.04 via driver but the chrome driver crashes...

---

### Post by mdhghdm on 2008-11-04
hi,
i finally got 1024x600 resolution -- in a rather lenghty trial & error process.
among some other changes, i commented out the "PanelID" "17" -- which worked just fine with hardy.
maybe my xorg.conf (sorry about the mess) can be of service for anyone.
ATTENTION: i am using a german keyboard -- so you might have to change the file before you use it, if you are using a keyboard other than standard "DE".
best,
mdhg

```

# VIA X11 Config file
# Created on: 2007-11-20T12:30:27-0800.
#
# Version: 6.9.0
#
Section "Files"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/local"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/URW"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/PEX"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/latin2/misc:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/latin2/75dpi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/latin2/100dpi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/latin2/Type1"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/latin7/75dpi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/baekmuk:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/japanese:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/kwintv"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/truetype"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/uni:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ucs/misc:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ucs/75dpi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/ucs/100dpi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/hellas/misc:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/hellas/75dpi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/hellas/100dpi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/hellas/Type1"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc/sgi:unscaled"
  FontPath     "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/xtest"
  FontPath     "/opt/kde3/share/fonts"
  InputDevices "/dev/gpmdata"
  InputDevices "/dev/input/mice"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
  Option       "AllowMouseOpenFail" "on"
EndSection

Section "Module"
  Load         "v4l"
  Load         "glx"
  Load         "type1"
  Load         "extmod"
  Load         "dbe"
  Load         "freetype"
  Load         "dri"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver       "kbd"
  Identifier   "Keyboard[0]"
  Option       "Protocol" "Standard"
  Option       "XkbLayout" "de"
  Option       "XkbModel" "pc104"
  Option       "XkbRules" "xfree86"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver       "synaptics"
  Identifier   "Mouse[0]"
  Option       "Buttons" "5"
  Option       "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
  Option       "Emulate3Buttons" "on"
  Option       "InputFashion" "Mouse"
  Option       "Name" "Synaptics;Touchpad"
  Option       "Protocol" "explorerps/2"
  Option       "SHMConfig" "on"
  Option       "Vendor" "Sysp"
  Option       "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver       "mouse"
  Identifier   "Mouse[1]"
  Option	   "CorePointer"
  Option       "Buttons" "5"
  Option       "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
  Option       "Name" "PS/2 Generic Mouse"
  Option       "Protocol" "explorerps/2"
  Option       "Vendor" "Sysp"
  Option       "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
  DisplaySize  250 150
  HorizSync    28-500
  Identifier   "Monitor[0]"
  ModelName    "VIEWSONIC VA912-4SERIES"
  Option       "DPMS"
  VendorName   "VSC"
  VertRefresh  43-60
  UseModes     "Modes[0]"
EndSection

Section "Modes"
  Identifier   "Modes[0]"
  Modeline 	"1280x768" 80.14  1280 1344 1480 1680  768 769 772 795  -HSync +Vsync
  Modeline 	"1024x768" 92.05 1024 1088 1200 1376 768 769 772 806
  Modeline 	"1024x768" 90.83 1024 1088 1200 1376 768 769 772 805
  Modeline 	"1024x768" 89.72 1024 1088 1200 1376 768 769 772 805
  Modeline 	"1280x600" 88.68 1280 1352 1488 1696 600 601 604 630
  Modeline 	"1280x600" 87.48 1280 1352 1488 1696 600 601 604 629
  Modeline 	"1280x600" 85.59 1280 1344 1480 1680 600 601 604 629
  Modeline 	"1024x600" 71.11 1024 1080 1192 1360 600 601 604 630
  Modeline 	"1024x600" 69.32 1024 1080 1184 1344 600 601 604 629
  Modeline 	"1024x600" 68.48 1024 1080 1184 1344 600 601 604 629
  Modeline 	"800x600" 55.22 800 840 928 1056 600 601 604 630
  Modeline 	"800x600" 54.47 800 840 928 1056 600 601 604 629
  Modeline 	"800x600" 53.80 800 840 928 1056 600 601 604 629
  Modeline 	"768x576" 50.62 768 808 888 1008 576 577 580 605
  Modeline 	"768x576" 49.92 768 808 888 1008 576 577 580 604
  Modeline 	"768x576" 49.32 768 808 888 1008 576 577 580 604
  Modeline 	"640x480" 34.80 640 672 736 832 480 481 484 504
  Modeline 	"640x480" 34.38 640 672 736 832 480 481 484 504
  Modeline 	"640x480" 33.90 640 672 736 832 480 481 484 503
EndSection

Section "Screen"
  DefaultDepth 32 
  SubSection "Display"
    Depth      32
    Modes      "1024x600"  
  EndSubSection
  Device       "Device[0]"
  Identifier   "Screen[0]"
  Monitor      "Monitor[0]"
EndSection

Section "Device"
  BoardName    "Framebuffer Graphics"
  Driver       "via"
  Identifier   "Device[0]"
  Screen       0
  VendorName   "VIA Technology"
  Option "NoDDCValue"
  Option "ActiveDevice" "LCD,CRT"
#  Option "PanelID"      "17"
  Option  "DisplayHardwareLayout" "LCD"
  Option  "ForceLCD"
#[<bool>]
  Option  "VideoOnDevice" "LCD"
#  Option "LCDPort" "DVP0"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
  Identifier   "Layout[all]"
  InputDevice  "Keyboard[0]" "CoreKeyboard"
  InputDevice  "Mouse[0]" "SendCoreEvents"
  InputDevice  "Mouse[1]" "SendCoreEvents"
  Option       "Clone" "off"
  Option       "Xinerama" "off"
  Screen       "Screen[0]"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Group      "video"
    Mode       0660
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
EndSection


```

p.s.: my first forum post ever...english isn't my native language either: so please be kind, if i misunderstood something.

---

### Post by valentinox on 2008-11-04
thanks! it worked. big thanks!

---

### Post by symbiat on 2008-11-04
Is it possible to go from 8.04 to 8.10 using apt-get? Or is that not recommended?

Just noticed today the Hardware Driver icon that pops up on panel and wireless is not working now. Just wondering if I should upgrade and switch from ndiswrapper to the STA driver instead?

I never fixed the headphone issue so that's another reason to upgrade...

---

### Post by cudgel on 2008-11-05
I just upgraded to 8.10 using Update Manager, everything appears to work. Using the beta VIA driver, 1280x768 resolution. Hibernate/suspend. On-board camera works with Cheese. Wireless connects to a WPA2 network using the native STA driver. 

I had to remove ndiswrapper-common, ndiswrapper-utils-1.9 and roll back changes to modules, modprobe.d/blacklist, and other files customized in the Wiki install guide.

---

### Post by louisiana84 on 2008-11-08
I tried upgrading from Hardy to Intrepid but must have done something wrong. I get a white screen with a frozen seed pod. I guess I'll have to try and install from disc now. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by nickdngr on 2008-11-08
don't forget to add the xforcevesa command. my first reinstall of 8.10 didn't go so well without the command...

i had the same results with the white screen when i tried to do an distro upgrade over the network and i wound up installing via thumbdrive. it works like a champ now, except i'm having some issues with watching movies, which i'm trying to repair. good luck.

---

### Post by nickdngr on 2008-11-09
Hrmm...even with the via driver installed, i'm having issues with full-screen video -- videos appear choppy when on full-screen. is anyone else having that problem, or had it?

---

### Post by spegru on 2008-11-10
Thanks for all the help here - especially the xorg.conf file. (I had the red & green flashing screen after installed the via drivers using via's own installer, until I used the much more sophisticated xorg.conf from here)

Pretty much everything seems fine in Ubuntu Intrepid using the default installer (as long as you remember to forcevesa at the live CD stage): wireless, usb, camera, video

Just two things I'm lacking are internal Mic and 3D graphics acceleration so I can run GoogleEarth and some games sensibly.

The Internal Mic may just me some sound setting thing (it works ok with a USB headset). not sure which sound device is the internal mic.......

On 3D I noticed that the Via site has other versions for downloading including Ubuntu Hardy and OpenSuse and SLED and some of these appear to have 3D. surely these could be used in Intrepid too? 
Seems to be a driver and kernel modules too - but i don't understand how they're used? Any Ideas?

spegru

---

### Post by slipdipper on 2008-11-11
My experience: 

VIDEO DRIVERS: im seeing a problem using the latest via drivers (Unified 2D driver Ver85a-43862(04Nov08) (593.3K)) and totem. very similar to the issue described here: [http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=552796](http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=552796) (failed to create output image buffer), but with the movie player and during video playback. Just ended up installing VLC and everything works fine. 

WIRELESS: Also the broadcom sta drivers are acting a little funky when connecting to 802.11a networks, i havent looked very much into this, but just little issues like incorrect signal strength readings. could be specific to this system though, it needs further investigation on my end. 

PCIEXPRESS SLOT: PCIExpress slot really is problematic, more so then hardy. My ubiquiti superrange xpress (atheros based, using madwifi-ng) used to lock up the system and then eventually recover to a point where the system ran extremely slow. in 8.10 the system completely locks up, input devices dont work, and the only available option is to power off the machine. I would REALLLY love if someone got the pci express slot working properly, but its been a couple months and no real improvements seem to be under way. 

GENERAL: with the HP2133, (or at least mine) it seemed to run less hot in windows xp then hardy. with the release of intrepid, it looks like the system runs as cool (which is still hot) as it does in windows xp, thats a plus. But, one notable difference was that i was running kubuntu when i was using hardy, so maybe that added to the system utilization.

---

### Post by mrbog on 2008-11-11
I have been able to get video and networking going. The only problem I have left to fix is the internal mic, it works but is extremely quite and has way too much static. If someone has been able to get the mic working well could they post their alsa configuration/installation and levels. tia

---

### Post by spegru on 2008-11-11
Which Mic device are you using?

Previously I have had problems with Mic volume and there has been a 20dB Mic Boost option which fixed it. However that doesn't seem to be there in this default setup.
Maybe there is a problem with the HDA audio model type (I had that problem before)

spegru

---

### Post by mrbog on 2008-11-11
I am using the internal mic, also I have the snd-hda-intel model=laptop option in alsa-base

---

### Post by allinurl on 2008-11-11
Does anybody knows if the fix from 8.04 for the mic works on Intrepid? Cause it was working just fine for me under 8.04

---

### Post by allinurl on 2008-11-12
BTW: I installed VIA beta 8.10 video drivers, everything works fine exect when I restart X (CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE) then I get to see some colored lines while the screens goes black. Sometimes I get to see what was my wallpaper, kinda like stays on buffer somehow. Do you guys have these weird problemsas well? Thanks

---

### Post by slipdipper on 2008-11-12
allinurl see [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133#Video%20Driver%20Fix](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133#Video%20Driver%20Fix)


you need to fix your xorg.conf ... more of a reason to RTFM prior to posting

---

### Post by thoregil on 2008-11-12
still have some wireless problems here..
i can detect the network, and connect to non-secured networks..
But when entering the WPA-personal key, it will not connect, and i am 100% sure that it is the right key. (just tested it with my xp)

And.. Does anyone know where the exchange plugin for Korganizer went in 8.10 ?

---

### Post by spegru on 2008-11-14
my wireless worked fine just as soon as the proprietary drivers were installed (using the wired port) - WPA included
Are you sure you have the right key? - just in case you have any special characters in your password, are you sure that the ketboard mapping is correct and that caps lock is off?

Anyone got a fix of the internal mic? I don't think it is the mic boost problem after all, as it is completely silent when testing with skype test call.....

Any news on 3d graphics?

spegru

---

### Post by scott4957 on 2008-11-15
Will the new native drivers in 8.10 allow kismet to work?  My guess is no, I believe that kismet needs the card in monitor mode, I'm guessing monitor mode is not supported.  

Scott

---

### Post by slipdipper on 2008-11-15
one problem im seeing now (after a week of use) is that when playing video off of a smb share over a wireless network with VLC (the only player i could get working properly), the video will "chop" or pause once every couple minutes for about 10 or 15 seconds. I've booted my hp2133 into the windows partition and everything seems to be fine. This makes me think that it either has something to do with the wireless drivers or the video drivers.. anyone see any similar behaviour?

also i am still seeing inaccurate signal strength from the gnome wireless manager when connecting to an 802.11a network. 


re: wireless problems with WPA
i've found that when i use the gnome wireless manager and manually configure it for my SSID/psk, it never connects. What does work is if i use the built in network finder, select my SSID, and add it with the manager selecting it. idk wtf, but it worked for me and has since been working..

---

### Post by slipdipper on 2008-11-16
.did some troubleshooting and when i copy the video file locally, there's no 10 - 15 second chop every couple minutes. this means its not the video driver. that sucks cause it means its probably something to do with the wireless adapter and its going to be much harder to prove its the broadcom driver and not wireless interference or anything along those lines. 

Like i said before, i dont see the same issues when either using a secondary system (within windows), or booting my hp2133 into windows. and im well within 30 feet of my AP, with no other APs in the vicinity on the same channel. if you cant tell.. im convinced its the broadcom driver =]

anyone got any ideas?

---

### Post by jjrp78 on 2008-11-17
Hi,

I got my mic working with 8.10 almost out of the box. Te only problem was that it came muted by default. Try this:

1. In a terminal type gnome-volume-control
2. Select HDA VIA VT82XX if not selectd yet
3. Click on Preferences
4. Check both Capture and Internal Mic and hit close
5. click on Recording tab
6. Unmute Capture and internal mic
you are done

---

### Post by Ken.Green on 2008-11-20
I'm still not managing to get the built in mic working. I've played around with the options in the gnome-volume-volume control, but no luck getting the mic working with either the sound recorder or with Skype.

The other really weird problem I am having is that the backspace key isn't acting as a back button in FireFox to taking me back to the previous webpage. I don't have this problem on any of my other Linux boxes. I'll try upgrading one of my full sized laptops to 8.10 and see whether I get the same problem.

Other than that I'm really impressed with this little thing running Ubuntu. I fairly quickly managed to stuff the SLED version is came installed with, I've never worked with Suse before.

The wireless was easy to sort out with the STA driver.
My Vodafone dongle just worked when I let Ubuntu configure it rather than trying to get Vodafone's software working.

Cheers for the hints on other stuff on the machine.

---

### Post by jjrp78 on 2008-11-20
> **Ken.Green said:**
> I'm still not managing to get the built in mic working. I've played around with the options in the gnome-volume-volume control, but no luck getting the mic working with either the sound recorder or with Skype.

The other really weird problem I am having is that the backspace key isn't acting as a back button in FireFox to taking me back to the previous webpage. I don't have this problem on any of my other Linux boxes. I'll try upgrading one of my full sized laptops to 8.10 and see whether I get the same problem.

Other than that I'm really impressed with this little thing running Ubuntu. I fairly quickly managed to stuff the SLED version is came installed with, I've never worked with Suse before.

The wireless was easy to sort out with the STA driver.
My Vodafone dongle just worked when I let Ubuntu configure it rather than trying to get Vodafone's software working.

Cheers for the hints on other stuff on the machine.


I cant make the soun recorder work either but havent really try, as for skype aditionally to the settings I mentioned before I also had to change some settings in skype.

try setting "HDA VIA VT82xx (hw:VT82xx,0) both in sound in and sound out (skype's sound settings)

Hope that works

---

### Post by spegru on 2008-11-22
I have noticed that the mic keeps muting itself after a few seconds
It works fine while it is unmuted but then in mutes..........

any ideas?

---

### Post by alex:-) on 2008-11-22
Hi ladies+gents,

Pls consider: This is my first forum entry ever. My disappointment when setting up my 2133 first was huge: why does SLED/OpenSuse run as good as it gets out of the box but 8.10 wouldn't?

Besides the factors discussed in many threads I figured out that with the BIOS version F3 and F4, 8.10 can basically be installed, NOT so running on F5! No chance romance, using xforcevesa doesn't change anything there. Got back to F4, installed beautifully, did the rest of tricks I found here ;-) and then tried to retry F5. 8.10 doesn't even start at all, never see any x but wild screen-saver-like shows untill black screen with total freeze. Get back to F4 everything's ok :-)

So please, freaks among you, get some HP2133 guys to analyze this and build  beautiful F6 ff BIOS, which make us Ubuntu - Linux4Lovers - users happy also on VIA platforms :-)

Thanks ;-)

---

### Post by spegru on 2008-11-22
My BIOS appears to be F.02

Anyone know what the differences are or how to upgrade?

Anyway the install went fine - except for the mic auto-muting itself.........

---

### Post by jjrp78 on 2008-11-23
I updated to frimware f05 without any issues running ubuntu without any major problems.

To update your firmware you are gonna need a memory stick and a Windws system to make that memory stick bootable and flash your mini.

Here is the link to download the latest firmware and the instructions:

[http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/SoftwareIndex.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodNameId=3687085&prodTypeId=321957&prodSeriesId=3687084&swLang=8&taskId=135&swEnvOID=2020](http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/SoftwareIndex.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodNameId=3687085&prodTypeId=321957&prodSeriesId=3687084&swLang=8&taskId=135&swEnvOID=2020)


on another subject, Does anybody knows if the accelerometer HD protection system still works after installing ubuntu? any way to find that out?

---

### Post by luvit on 2008-11-23
> **jjrp78 said:**
> Does anybody knows if the accelerometer HD protection system still works after installing ubuntu? any way to find that out?

there is no Drive Guard protection.

---

### Post by spegru on 2008-11-23
> **jjrp78 said:**
> I updated to frimware f05 without any issues running ubuntu without any major problems.

To update your firmware you are gonna need a memory stick and a Windws system to make that memory stick bootable and flash your mini.

Here is the link to download the latest firmware and the instructions:

[http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/SoftwareIndex.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodNameId=3687085&prodTypeId=321957&prodSeriesId=3687084&swLang=8&taskId=135&swEnvOID=2020](http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/SoftwareIndex.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodNameId=3687085&prodTypeId=321957&prodSeriesId=3687084&swLang=8&taskId=135&swEnvOID=2020)


on another subject, Does anybody knows if the accelerometer HD protection system still works after installing ubuntu? any way to find that out?

When you say it installed without issues - does the internal mic work ok without it automatically muting itself?

---

### Post by jjrp78 on 2008-11-23
thats right, it doesnt mutes. I just had an skype conversation and they told me that the could hear a lot of noise (like static) but they could still totally listen to me. And I dont have that auto muting issue.

---

### Post by luvit on 2008-11-25
i had that exact same problem.  the solution you're looking for is detailed in [[COLOR="Blue"]_**this thread**_[/COLOR]]("http://www.hp2133guide.com/forums/viewtopic.php?p=7176#7176")
.

---

### Post by hydrargyrum on 2008-11-29
I have strange behaviour of microphone (both internal and connected via the jack) with Kubuntu 8.10 and HP 2133 (model FU342EA). I hear the sound I speak to the microphone, but both Skype and Gnome recording tool does not get any sound from the mic.

I have the latest BIOS (F.05 F) installed. I have the ALSA 1.0.18a drivers compiled and set up using the instruction at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133#Tested%20Configuration](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133#Tested%20Configuration).
	
I would be very grateful for any help.

---

### Post by jjrp78 on 2008-12-02
Hi everybody.

There is a new video driver in via's site. I tried it but didnt work so well. Couldnt get 3D acceleration, couldnt open the screen resolution panel, when typed in a terminal "xrandr" I got:

Xlib: extension "RANDR" missing on display ":0.0"

So uninstalled the new driver. Has anybody had better luck with it?

---

### Post by slipdipper on 2008-12-10
ya same here, i thought i saw a post somewhere that said someone was going to upgrade the LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133 with the new xorg.conf, but i dont see any updates and i cant seem to find the post..

---

### Post by luvit on 2008-12-10
to install the 3d driver from December 2nd, 2008 follow [[COLOR=RoyalBlue]_**this thread**_[/COLOR]]("http://www.hp2133guide.com/forums/viewtopic.php?t=1136")
.

---

### Post by windowsseven on 2008-12-11
I've set up a site for us with Hp 2133, i will post a fix in a few days! be updated on my blog.
[http://www.ubuntu2133.blogspot.com/]("http://www.ubuntu2133.blogspot.com/")

Check it out!

---

### Post by Jammer 258 on 2008-12-12
I have done the same thing with my HP pavillion 9000 series laptop. Fresh install of 8.10, Had no problems with the hardware dectecion advising me of my wireless and nvidia drivers (my laptop has built in nvidia 7200 apparently) however I have one small snag. All effects work fine no issues with resolution but when I shut the laptop down the closing splash screen just flickers and you can just make out the ubuntu logo with the load bar. Has anyone else experienced this and have fixed it because although it does not change the performance I get out of my laptop its very annoying.

Any help would be gratiously appreciated.

Forgot to mention the same laptop had previously had Hardy Heron and this issue with the splash screen didn't exist. The version of 8.04 was for AMD x64 and my current version of 8.10 is 32bit due to there being more 32bit apps I use.

---

### Post by Greenknight04 on 2008-12-16
I upgraded my 8.04 install to 8.10, and can't get it to boot. I load it up, and it gets to the screen just before the log-in splash screen before freezing. The loading cursor becomes all fuzzy and pixelated, and then the screen goes white with a cursor and freezes. Also, at my boot menu, I have two versions of 8.10- hrnel 2.6.27-9-generic and 2.6.24-16-generic. Both have xforcevesa appended to the end of their boot lines. Please note, again, that I am upgrading an existing install of 8.04, rather then doing a fresh install from disk. Any advice?

Edit: Went and downloaded an iso of 8.10 and did a fresh install. Working just fine.

---

### Post by Hiekkamies on 2008-12-29
I just got my HP mini 2133 with 1024x600 panel to work right with Xubuntu :D. It was quite a battle, especially since i´m quite inexperienced with Linux. Thank you for everyone who have posted in this thread.

I used driver (december 2nd) and xorg.conf file from Luvit´s post. This gave me problem with resolution which was solved by modifying xorg.conf with the help of log files. Here is link to Luvit´s [xorg.conf]("http://koti.mbnet.fi/qian/xorg.conf") modified to 1024x600 resolution by me. Not sure if it works with external monitors anymore, but it works with my laptop, so if you are having resolution problems you can try it out. 

All credit to Luvit for the file, i just changed a few lines.

---

### Post by firebadger on 2009-01-21
I'm having tremendous difficulties with my wireless on my new 2133. I've posted the details [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6592609") rather than hijacking this thread, but I thought it would make sense to try to draw some attention from some fellow HP2133 owners.

Help greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by skr on 2009-01-22
> **jjrp78 said:**
> Hi,

I got my mic working with 8.10 almost out of the box. Te only problem was that it came muted by default. Try this:

1. In a terminal type gnome-volume-control
2. Select HDA VIA VT82XX if not selectd yet
3. Click on Preferences
4. Check both Capture and Internal Mic and hit close
5. click on Recording tab
6. Unmute Capture and internal mic
you are done

Thank you jjrp78 on November 17th, 2008 
This by far is the most important piece of information I have found as it was the one thing I could not get working.

If it helps anyone there is a full account of what I did to get a fresh install of Ubuntu 8.10 working perfectly on my HP2133 on [click here]("http://skrblog.blogspot.com/") filed under todays date.  Hope it helps someone.

---

### Post by muddyh2o on 2009-03-19
hey everyone

sorry for asking what i know will be a stupid question, but i've just installed 8.10 on my 2133 (a vista business version) and i get a white screen with a little mouse icon

i believe i need to try the xforcevesa fix, but where exactly do i put it?

i know how to edit the boot lines (uuid, kernel, initrd, quiet) but i don't know which line or where on the line to put the switch

can anyone help me?

thank you in advance for your support!

---

### Post by Theril on 2009-04-03
It seems that there wasn't yet a solution working for everybody posted about the 1024x600 resolution. I also forgot to post the configuration I promised earlier in this thread. But anyway, here's a config that works for me on Intrepid with Via's proprietary 3D driver:

```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"via"
	Option		"PanelID" "9"
	Option		"ForceLCD" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	
	Subsection 	"Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes	"1024x600_60"
		Virtual	1024 600
	EndSubsection
EndSection

```

I hope it works. There are quite good pointers in the documentation that comes with the driver package.

Edit: Compiz won't work with that configuration straight away. There's documentation in the driver package
how to get that working, but at least I had some weird problems with cursor.

---

### Post by LodeRunner on 2009-04-03
> **muddyh2o said:**
> hey everyone

sorry for asking what i know will be a stupid question, but i've just installed 8.10 on my 2133 (a vista business version) and i get a white screen with a little mouse icon

i believe i need to try the xforcevesa fix, but where exactly do i put it?

i know how to edit the boot lines (uuid, kernel, initrd, quiet) but i don't know which line or where on the line to put the switch

can anyone help me?

thank you in advance for your support!

The first thing I recommend you do is check your firmware revision. Press F10 on boot to go into the BIOS, and look for "system information" or something along those lines.  If you see a line that says F.05, you need to downgrade to F.04.  Just run [this]("http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/SoftwareDescription.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodTypeId=321957&prodSeriesId=3687084&prodNameId=3687085&swEnvOID=2020&swLang=13&mode=2&taskId=135&swItem=ob-64238-1") in windows.

After I downgraded, I didn't have to type xforcevesa anywhere except when I first booted the liveCD (press F6.)

---

### Post by LodeRunner on 2009-04-03
Theril: thanks a bunch for the very prompt response, though it's still not working here. (signal 11) Perhaps you could post your entire xorg... ?

---

### Post by Theril on 2009-04-03
> **LodeRunner said:**
> Theril: thanks a bunch for the very prompt response, though it's still not working here. (signal 11) Perhaps you could post your entire xorg... ?

This is my entire xorg.conf, the autoprobing works for most stuff these days. Signal 11 refers to segmentation fault which means there's a bug somewhere. This should probably be reported to Ubuntu and perhaps to Via, though they don't seem to have a bugtracker.

My driver is (now) "5.74.33.85a-44597", which still seems to be the newest. It seems that I was using some other driver earlier, but the same xorg.conf still works. However, with the 3D driver 'Option "SWCursor" "True"' has to be added or the cursor doesn't show up. To get compiz working it seems to have to be "de-blacklisted" (see the driver's Readme.txt), but it's quite messed up for me at least.

Oh, and my xorg is 1:7.4~5ubuntu3. It seems that there's a newer version for Intrepid, but I don't dare to install it now.

Try to see your /var/log/Xorg.0.log to see where it crashes.

---

### Post by LodeRunner on 2009-04-03
I've got the same driver version. I don't care much about compiz, but I was somewhat interested in some non-strenuous 3d gaming... I suppose it really isn't that important. Perhaps I should try out the 2d driver. The main thing here is to get the display to a point where it doesn't make my eyes ache. Or perhaps 9.04 will magically fix everything?

The xorg log looks pretty much the same every time I check it: ```
 [...]

(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//fonts/libfreetype.so
(II) Module freetype: vendor="X.Org Foundation & the After X-TT Project"
	compiled for 1.5.2, module version = 2.1.0
	Module class: X.Org Font Renderer
	ABI class: X.Org Font Renderer, version 0.6
(II) Loading font FreeType
(II) LoadModule: "record"

(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//librecord.so
(II) Module record: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.5.2, module version = 1.13.0
	Module class: X.Org Server Extension
	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 1.1
(II) Loading extension RECORD

Backtrace:
0: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(xf86SigHandler+0x79) [0x80c3019]
1: [0xb7f27400]
2: /usr/X11R6/bin/X(main+0x279) [0x8071b19]
3: /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6(__libc_start_main+0xe5) [0xb7b23685]
4: /usr/X11R6/bin/X [0x8071101]
Saw signal 11.  Server aborting.
```

Hey, here's a stupid question: are there supposed to be double slashes in the paths like that?



EDIT: Since it seems like a lot of stuff broke from 8.04 to 8.10 (for instance, apparently F.05 firmware used to work fine for a lot of people), I'm just going to go ahead and upgrade to 9.04 beta and see if the stuff that magically broke can't manage to magically fix itself.  Stranger things have happened.

---

### Post by LodeRunner on 2009-04-04
Hey, one more thing that might bear mentioning:

It's not just a matter of the blurry non-native resolution... it's also cutting off the bottom 25% (or so) of many windows.  A few apps are completely unusable as a result, and I have to rely on memory and guesswork to figure out which button I'm tabbing to.

"Screen Resolution" claims we're running at 640x480 and there's are two pink boxes, one in the middle of the "screen resolution" window and one in the upper left (outside of the window) that say Unknown.

Maybe this is simply a natural result of the aspect ratio (4:3) being wrong, but I've never encountered it before. I seem to remember that in such cases the desktop would automatically pan when the cursor reached the edge of the screen... or maybe only XP does that?

---

### Post by LodeRunner on 2009-04-04
Damnation! Well, the boot splash screen was *tantalizingly* smaller... after it disappears, though, I get a blank screen.  Changed xorg.conf to the one you posted above, still blank screen. I would have tried the half dozen other xorg.confs I had backed up in, but the updater deleted them! How annoying and/or pointless.

---

### Post by LodeRunner on 2009-04-05
Ok, I did a fresh 9.04 install and it runs 1024x600 out of the box.  No need to specify xforcevesa for booting the liveCD, either.  Will play around with 3d acceleration a little later in the week, maybe.

EDIT:  **And the saga continues!** After my first reboot, the screen was blank again (with login sounds as described above.)  This time, the consoles are visible, but ctrl-alt-F7 is utterly blank, even though I can log in and launch applications by memory.

For the first boot, it was definitely running in 1024x600, though the display was still marked "unknown."  This time, the auto-fix-X recovery mode option does not change anything. Thought it might be an external monitor mode, but function-F2 does nothing.

What I did in between the first and second boots:

moved some icons around
installed a few firefox extensions
added medibuntu repository stuff (but I haven't installed anything from it yet)  
configured compcache (hard disk swap makes no sense on the 2133)
installed the proprietary STA wireless driver

Out of that list, the only thing that sticks out a bit is compcache. In order to use it, you have to generate a new /boot/initrd.img .  I guess that could conceivably affect the monitor... I am absolutely positive that the only line I changed in /etc/initramfs-tools/initramfs.conf was the compcache line, though.

I'm torn as to whether I want to investigate this odd theory or just attempt to install via's proprietary drivers again.

---

### Post by LodeRunner on 2009-04-06
Ok, found the culprit: in 9.04 (as of April 6), the proprietary STA wireless driver kills the monitor after reboot, and nothing you can do to xorg.conf will change this.  I'm using the open source wifi driver now... signal strength is weaker, but it still should be usable for my purposes.

Will attempt to install the 3d via driver next.

---

### Post by LodeRunner on 2009-12-22
Well, son of a bitch. In 9.10, the open source driver also kills it. Just to confirm, I did a fresh reinstall, the display was fine, installed the open source driver, rebooted and it's blank again.

I guess I should stop being lazy and attempt to manually install Via's proprietary video driver (I never did get around to it.)

---

