---
title: "8.10: No Iamge Resume-----GOD HELP ME PLEASE!!!!!!!"
date: 2008-12-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Macadeus on 2008-12-24
Okay, i installed my Nvidia driver through the restricted hardware menu and then was prompted to restart; i did. now when ever i boot the computer i get this:
Boot from (hd0,0) ext3  a830...(there is a stream of numbers)
Starting up...
Loading, please wait...
19+0 records in
19+0 records out
kinit: name_to_dev_t(/dev/disk/by.....more crap) = dev(8,5)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by.....more crap
kinit: No resume image, doing normail boot...
Ubuntu 8.10 computername tty1

(i get to the Ubuntu loading bar thing but then it goes to the above crap)
it asks me to login, and then i have tried virtualy everything to fix it but to no avail. PLEASE HELP ME

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2008-12-24
I don't get what the issue is those are normal boot messages.

---

### Post by Macadeus on 2008-12-24
Once i boot, it doesn't go to the regular login screen. after the Ubuntu loading bar fully loads, the screen goes black and then that whole string of stuff comes up. it then prompts me to login and then once i do i get this:

Last login: Wed Dec 24 11:17:23 CST 2008 on tty1
Linux computername 2.6.27-9-generic #1 SMP Thu Nov 20 21:57:00 UTC 2008 i686

The programs included with the Ubuntu System are free software; the exact....blah blah

Ubuntu comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by applicable law.

To access official Ubuntu documentation, please visit:
[http://help.ubuntu.com/](http://help.ubuntu.com/)
username@computername:~$

That's it

---

### Post by AdinsxBejoty on 2009-01-09
Bump.  Please answer this; I have the exact same problem.  I get the same string of messages, followed by a text line for logging in.  I can't get to any graphic-based login screen, no desktop, etc.  If I try to run any programs (firefox for example), I get a "Cannot detect display" error.

Please help!

---

### Post by Spitting Crows on 2009-02-01
I am having the same exact problem (as of 15 minutes ago),too!  I think the last time I shut my computer down, it was to hibernate or some other non-shutdown command, and Ubuntu doesn't seem to like that on my idea pad 510.  It's had problems before and it's done this basic thing before (and I'm afeared this may be the cause).  Last time I had to go through my windows partition, save the important files, and reinstall ubuntu from a cdrom and then reload those files.  Did any of y'all hibernate your laptop before this?

In any case, some help please!  Thanks.  

Oh, and I'm running Intrepid, if that matters.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-01
What you get is normal if X doesn't start. Once you are logged in, at the prompt type:

```
startx
```

If nothing else is wrong this will start X and you should see your desktop. If the above works, then you some how managed to delete gdm. Press Ctrl-Alt-backspace to get back to the prompt and type:

```
sudo apt-get install gdm
```

This will install the Gnome Desktop Manager. If it doesn't start automatically, at the prompt type:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

Jim

---

### Post by Spitting Crows on 2009-02-02
Didn't work for me. 
I ended up trying to load it again, ran fscheck (as suggested) and found even MORE problems.  So I copied my files out, used an ubuntu cd to reformat and reinstalled.  Feh.

---

