---
title: "O.S. corrupt"
date: 2009-01-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by grimey44 on 2009-01-05
i have a laptop with windows XP on it. one day i turned it on and the screen was just black with text saying:

the file   "\windows\AppPatch\drvmain.sdb" is either corrupt or missing.
then it asks for the OS disk to be inserted.

I was wondering if i just installed ubuntu, would i be able to access the files on my hard drive or would the ubuntu install wipe them out?

---

### Post by grimey44 on 2009-01-05
is the ntfs partition where the old files are?

and im not sure what eles you said

---

### Post by srt4play on 2009-01-05
> **tokz20 said:**
> sad to say that LINUX operating system will not recognize NTFS partition :(

That is false.  And yeah, what the heck was the rest of that. 

OP - If you want to save/backup the files you have from your Windows system, the easiest way would be to boot an Ubuntu cd and connect a usb external hard drive to copy the files over.

---

### Post by grimey44 on 2009-01-06
so if i put in the ubuntu cd my files should show up in that?
thanx lots, ill give it a try

---

### Post by grimey44 on 2009-01-06
so i put the boot cd in the drive and click " try ubuntu w/out any changes to computer"

then it says:

"This kernal requires an x86-64 CPU but only detected an i686 CPU
Unable to boot. Please use a kernal appropriate for your CPU.

does that mean i have to download a new cd and that this one didnt get the correct settings for my laptop?

---

### Post by NoBugs! on 2009-01-07
> **grimey44 said:**
> so i put the boot cd in the drive and click " try ubuntu w/out any changes to computer"

then it says:

"This kernal requires an x86-64 CPU but only detected an i686 CPU
Unable to boot. Please use a kernal appropriate for your CPU.

does that mean i have to download a new cd and that this one didnt get the correct settings for my laptop?

Yes, it sounds like the wrong cd. 32bit version is for most computers, 64bit is only for the latest ones. and yes, Linux is great at getting files off of a broken system.

---

### Post by grimey44 on 2009-01-09
alright thanx for the help

i got the 32 bit version and it works now.
i am just unable to find my windows files.
Where would they normally be located?

i seem to be able to find my programs files but no documents

---

### Post by grimey44 on 2009-01-10
bump
anyone got and advice?

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2009-01-10
just remove the hard drive. and slave it in another computer running windows. you should be able to get your documents. and if you have your windows cd, you should be able to replace the corrupt file.

---

### Post by buccaneere on 2009-01-10
I don't think it's necessary to remove the hard drive, although that would work.

If you can mount the Windows partition, your files should be at

/media/disk/Documents and Settings/All Users/Documents/
OR
/media/disk/Documents and Settings/grimey 44/My Documents/

---

