---
title: "16.04 can't see my new Sennheisers, with or without a wire .. . too new?"
date: 2017-03-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rudy5 on 2017-03-19
Whew.  Got a new Dell laptop this week with Ubuntu pre-installed --- not new to Linux however, been a daily user since 2005 and a Ubuntu user since around '09 anyway.

(Great idea b.t.w. to buy a computer with the preferred OS pre-installed, as it was difficult getting my Toshiba laptop to accept Linux.)

First hitch comes when I try to pair it to the very necessary headphones.  I chose these new Sennheiser HD 4.40BT model ones.

Charged okay, through the computer's USB port.

But they didn't show upon my computer's list of available Bluetooth devices, though my neighbour's did.

These "fixes"/workarounds from about a year ago posted elsewhere in this for for *similar* problems are kinda scary for a non-power user like me.  And they don't even seem like particularly satisfying fixes, and they may not even be relevant to my problem at all.

Meanwhile, speaking of workarounds, if the Bluetooth can't see the headphones, at least I can connect them up by hardwire.  The laptop notices something's been plugged into it, and prompts me to tell it what it is.  So far, so good: I can set the sound level, and the little voice saying left speaker sounds GREAT.

But nothing else does.  Literally, the headphones sound terrible, you can't make out what is going on at all.

Insights?  Will 17.04 be able to handle my new headphones when it comes out next month?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-03-19
> **rudy5 said:**
> Will 17.04 be able to handle my new headphones when it comes out next month?

There is no need to wait. If you try the beta version today you can report bugs (if any), giving yourself a better chance of getting a working release.

---

### Post by rudy5 on 2017-03-19
It is very much my hope that I won't be the only person that's come up against this wall, and that others might already be hard at work trying to get these parts all playing well together.  When that happens, I'm confident it'll be part of the whole Ubuntu enchilada.

What I don't know is how that will all work, and so I'm curious to learn this aspect of how the Ubuntu community solves problems like this.

(Assumption:  this is OS-related, as the hardware is able to physically connect.)

If and when a connectivity problem for a popular piece of hardware like Sennheiser headphones is solved, and incorporated in the official release, is the fix rolled out as part of a regular LTS upgrade package?

Or does it go into the NEXT version of the OS, and I would have to install the next version that fixes this, which might be 16.10, 17.04, 17.10 .. .  Doesn't look like another LTS release until 18,04; the market segment I'm in.

Meanwhile, taking the 16.10 -->17.04 beta upgrade path, on the chance that I can contribute a whole lot to the programming question posed, seems likely to end in tears.  I got fifteen beans to my name!

Your answer does seem to confirm that it's not something simple I'm doing wrong.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-03-20
If it were difficult I would have warned you.
Just do a live boot of 17.04 to see if there are any changes. You don't have to install.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2017-03-20
The 440 is a headset, with both speakers and a microphone. Your laptop might not be expecting a connector which supports both.

---

