---
title: "10.04 nVidia Macbook no sound"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by trakof on 2010-05-06
I just finished installing Ubuntu 10.04 on my macbook but can't get the sound to work. I have to boot with nolapic for ubuntu to load(not sure if that has anything to do with it). Everything looks like it should be working, dunno whats goin on.

```

xx@xx-laptop:~$ uname -r
2.6.32-22-generic
xx@xx-laptop:~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 0: ALC889A Analog [ALC889A Analog]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 1: ALC889A Digital [ALC889A Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
xx@xx-laptop:~$  cat /proc/asound/version
Advanced Linux Sound Architecture Driver Version 1.0.22.1.
Compiled on Apr 29 2010 for kernel 2.6.32-22-generic (SMP).
xx@xx-laptop:~$ head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*
Codec: Realtek ALC889A

```any help would be appreciated, thanks.

---

### Post by Altaflux on 2010-05-06
I am having exactly the same problem,

aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 0: ALC888 Analog [ALC888 Analog]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 1: ALC888 Digital [ALC888 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

I am running ubuntu 10.04 but with xorg-edgers ppa and the kernel that comes with it (2.6.34). But i can say the problem does not come from my kernel as  even if i booted from the live cd sound didnt worked. I believe it may have something to do with nouveau driver (not sure) because if i recall correctly sound worked with nvidia binary driver when i installed it with it (deleted that partition, cant test anymore), but i am not so sure about that as my memory fails right now. In some other forum i read that inserting nouveau.noaccel=1 in the boot with some other parameters fixed his issue but maybe his case was a bit different. I dont know if video drivers can affect the sound, but the difference beetween my 9.10 and 10.04 was the video driver.

---

### Post by trakof on 2010-05-07
Booting with nouveau.noaccel=1 doesn't help but thanks for the try.

---

### Post by Seq on 2010-05-08
I found that pulseaudio wasn't correctly setting the channel volume in alsa, which was muted by default. I installed 'alsamixer', ran it in a terminal, and unmuted and jacked 'Front' and 'Surround' to 100%. This was saved between reboots, so it has not occurred again.

Edit: By the way, I'm a Macbookpro5,3

---

### Post by trakof on 2010-05-08
Yup making sure it wasn't muted in alsamixer was the first thing i tried, thanks tho.

---

### Post by struppi on 2010-05-23
I had the same problem with my MacBookPro4,1.  I posted my fix here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446306](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446306)

---

### Post by s1rUK on 2010-06-03
Hi there, 

I've the same (bothersome) problem with my Macbook. IDK why? I solved it listening the sounds from the speakers but I didn't solve the problem with the headphones. :???::???::???:

Is there a way to fix the problem once and for all?


I posted my problem here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9403611#post9403611]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9403611#post9403611")

---

