---
title: "18.04 / 20.04 HDMI monitor briefly turning off and on NVIDIA-340"
date: 2021-07-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by steve234 on 2021-07-01
Hi there,

I'm having a strange issue where going to an active window, or occasionally doing something (choosing an option or typing in software) will cause my monitor to turn off for a second or so, and turn back on again. 

The monitor is fine on my Win10 work PC. But does the above when connected to mu linux box (in both lubuntu 18.04 and 20.04). Connection is via HDMI.

It;s a very hard issue to search - any ideas?

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-07-01
I saw this yesterday (*my local time*) as you posted it, and hope you'd get response from others.

Firstly the warning - Lubuntu 18.04 LTS is no longer supported by the  Lubuntu team as it's EOL, please refer [https://lubuntu.me/bionic-eol/](https://lubuntu.me/bionic-eol/)     Yes some packages (*those common with main Ubuntu 18.04 LTS*)  are still supported with security fixes, but that's not all packages,  and you can use `ubuntu-support-status` on your own box to see which  packages those are, and how it impacts your security status.

Yes I've seen the issue, and it included Lubuntu 18.04 LTS, 20.04 & more too, but it was not on a nvidia box (AMD card).

You mention screen cable being HDMI - are you sure the cable is secured  correctly?  Is the system dual booting and the windows works using the  same box & same cable? 

If your windows is using a different box, I'd likely boot a *live* system (*I'd  opt first with something very different to Lubuntu you're using, ie. a  non-Ubuntu is what I'd opt for firstly and something with a different  kernel stack; whatever you have handy if you have something; eg. I may  use Knoppix, Fedora or Debian that I believe exist on thumb-drives  already for me*).  You're testing the same hardware/cable to see if  the issue occurs using different software... If it does it's most likely  a cable that needs testing, connector that needs a clean etc..

If you don't have issues with that different system, I'd then again test with a *live* system, but this time a *like*  system to what you have installed; ie. Lubuntu 20.04 media if that's  what you have installed.. (if you're using the GA stack on your install;  I'd test using media that also uses the GA stack; eg. 20.04.1 media; if  using HWE then I'd use 20.04.2 (*or 20.04.3*) media and see if  it occurs there. If it occurs were too; it's possibly a software stack  issue (why you test with as close a stack as you can here), if it  doesn't occur here it's likely a config issue on your installed  system...  The nvidia being used makes it harder to test with Lubuntu; I  may opt to test using another *flavor* here though I forget what drivers are included on *focal* media  (*I just know Lubuntu doesn't include any!*).  Live with *persistence* may help here, but it may not (*I don't use it generally with nvidia drivers** so don't know sorry*).

Myself - I'd blame the hardware until I'd proven it wasn't hardware (hardware includes cable & connectors..). I'd use the *live* media to test other software to *sort of prove* it's hardware; or if the issue doesn't occur with *live* media then it's likely a *config* or package issue on your installed system.

On my own box; it occurs on *live* and my installed systems so I  concluded it was likely a cable issue; but rather than move boxes on top  of it (*the box is in a stack of boxes*) I'll live with it until I'm  forced to replace boxes in that stack and it's easy to reach (*I'm lazy*). My own box has windows xp installed on it (a *somewhat buggy*  game (red alert) I like is less hassle (*when it crashes*) there than under GNU/Linux); and  it occurs on xp too; though doesn't appear to blank as often in xp; but  maybe I'm not gaming as much as doing real stuff on the GNU/Linux so I  just don't notice it much).

If after that testing you conclude it's a software/config issue on your install...  Which stack were you using, you mention 18.04 & 20.04; if using the HWE stack on *bionic* and GA stack on *focal* they'll both be using the same stack, thus I'd install the HWE stack on the *focal* and see if it occurs there (or if you don't want to install it; test that via *live* media).  *Focal* or 20.04 uses the 5.4 kernel on GA, and currently the 5.8 on HWE (*though it'll soon bump to 5.11*)..

Anyway, that's a few thoughts...  (Note:  *I'm largely ignoring the nvidia-340, as whilst I've used it... I have no useful detail with it*)

---

### Post by steve234 on 2021-07-02
Thanks for the suggested approach. What I'll do first is connect up the windows box using the same (HDMI) cable, and use that setup at work today.

---

### Post by steve234 on 2021-07-02
P.s. I love that you keep an XP install around for C&C Red Alert - that is a legendary thing to do!

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-07-02
Off topic, but
> **guiverc said:**
> My own box has windows xp installed on it (a *somewhat buggy*  game (red alert) I like is less hassle (*when it crashes*) there than under GNU/Linux)
are you familiar with [OpenRA](https://www.openra.net/)? It might be nicer for you than running the original on XP or in Wine.

---

### Post by steve234 on 2021-07-03
> **steve234 said:**
> Thanks for the suggested approach. What I'll do first is connect up the windows box using the same (HDMI) cable, and use that setup at work today.

So I've done this and it worked flawlessly on Windows all day (same cable). I think I'll just have to live with it

---

