---
title: "mouse + mousepad on a laptop"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pbecks on 2008-04-24
Hello,

I am on a Toshiba Tecra laptop with Ubuntu 8.04 on it (fully updated). My touchpad works ok but sometimes i add a (optical/usb) mouse (trust mi-2500x).  The mouse works fine, only the side buttons do not. 

Getting those buttons to work (without loosing the right resolution/configuration of the screen/X) is a pain in the ***. It usually comes down to the right entries in: /etc/X11/xorg.conf.

I was wondering if there is a better way off getting the mouse to work properly. (tool?) Is <sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg> the way to do it?

---

### Post by p.becks on 2008-04-24
sample below: (my /ect/X11/xorg.conf)




# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"intl"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

