---
title: "SHMConfig/GSynaptics"
date: 2008-11-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by vurwolf on 2008-11-19
I am trying to get my mouse touchpad to work in Ubuntu. I found the link below and that got me to the file "xorg.conf" I haven'ta clue what to do in it. When I go to System/Pref/ Touchpad I get this error

GSynaptics couldn't initialize.
You have to set 'SHMConfig' 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config to use GSynaptics

What do I need to change to true???
Please Help

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-354160.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-354160.html)

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier		"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"True"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by feranick on 2009-01-26
Add:

```
 Option "SHMConfig"  "true" 
```

right after:

```
 Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
```

Save and reboot.

---

### Post by beyboo on 2009-01-26
AFAIK, Intrepid xorg.conf is different from the older versions where u need to tweak it for the SHMConfig.

To enable this for Intrepid, here is the official guide 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad#shmconfig](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad#shmconfig)

---

