---
title: "XPS m1530 HELP"
date: 2008-10-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by PeregrinGo on 2008-10-20
Hello everyone,

I recently received a refabricated XPS m1530 for an Inspiron system that gave me months of headaches. I downloaded, burned and installed the Hardy.iso image from the Dell wiki knowing that I would have Touchpad and Wireless tweaks to make. I also knew there might be suspend and eject problems.

All of this was pretty successful, except for the fact that the Track pad (scrolling) does not work. I found one tweak, but as many of you know, the fix is temporary at best, as simply editing the xorg.conf file doesn't peranently affect the system.  It works fine at first, but after a restart or two it acts as if these changes (to fix the Track pad) were never made.

So, to summarize,

Problem 1: Trackpad doesn't work (Touchpad craziness was resolved with the regular fix)

Problem 2: The laptop screen does not turn off when the lid is closed (even though this option IS SELECTED in energy management).

Problem 3: when preparing to suspend, I get the "failed to query UVC video" error. Restart causes a cream colored rectangle to fill the bottom right-hand of the screen.

Problem 4: The screen sometimes automatically dims itself (I am referring to an automatic readjustment of the "brightness" and not the temporary dimming due to inactivity).

Out of these 4, the only one that is a possible deal-breaker for me is the Trackpad. I'm sure a solution has to exist that will provide a permanent fix. To give those of you with a library of linux knowledge stored in the grey matter a better idea, here is my xorg.conf file.

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option          "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option          "Emulate3Buttons" "on"
	Option          "SHMConfig" "on"
	Option          "VertEdgeScroll" "on"
	Option          "VertTwoFingerScroll" "on"
	Option          "LeftEdge" "85"
	Option          "RightEdge" "910"
	Option          "TopEdge" "85"
	Option          "BottomEdge" "715"
	Option          "FingerLow" "25"
	Option          "FingerHigh" "30"
	Option          "MaxTapTime" "180"
	Option          "MaxTapMove" "220"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"		"True"
	Option		"IgnoreDisplayDevices"	"TV"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by PeregrinGo on 2008-10-21
**bump**

---

### Post by PeregrinGo on 2008-10-23
**Bump**

---

### Post by Gausian on 2008-10-24
Have you tried editing your menu.lst file with "i8042.nomux=1"

I as well as many others have solved touchpad problems with this fix.

---

### Post by PeregrinGo on 2008-10-25
> **Gausian said:**
> Have you tried editing your menu.lst file with "i8042.nomux=1"

I as well as many others have solved touchpad problems with this fix.

Yeah, I did that first thing, and it did make the TOUCHpad work correctly, but not the TRACKpad. It actually works intermittently. Sometimes it functions, sometimes it doesn't. But thanks for the response.

---

### Post by LeoSolaris on 2008-11-15
by Trackpad, do you mean the edge scrolling?

---

### Post by PeregrinGo on 2008-11-20
Yes, I do mean the edge scrolling. But please not that I added the "typical" fix noted above, and this works sporadically at best.

---

