---
title: "8.10 HP 1215 CUPS server error"
date: 2009-03-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-03-04
I have a HP psc 1215 all-in-one printer.

I have no problems when using Ubuntu 8.04.

But, when I try to print with Ubuntu 8.10, I receive this message:

> CUPS server error The CUPS scheduler is not running

Using the Printing troubleshooter which says
> CUPS Service Stopped. The CUPS print spooler does not appear to be running. To correct this, choose System>Administration>Services and look for 'cups' service.

I do not see any such listing under services.

Is this a common situation or am I alone and is there a fix for this?:confused:

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-03-10
I am going to bump this and hope to get an answer.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-03-11
Wow! This is the first time I never received any kind of an answer to a problem. 
I guess it must be so simple an idiot should be able to figure it out or so hard nobody knows what to do.
Well, I will just cycle back to the 8.04 version and wait it out.;)

---

### Post by Kane_of_NOD on 2009-03-13
I have the same problem


"CUPS 
service does not appear to be running"


=/ need some help pleasee

---

### Post by Kane_of_NOD on 2009-03-23
thelugnut, try this out

```
sudo update-rc.d cups defaults && sudo /etc/init.d/cups start
```


I hope it works for you..  good luck comrade ;)

---

### Post by Michael Steinberg on 2009-03-23
Same thing with me & a Brother printer, which worked fine forever. Till now. I get "Child exited on signal 1" and I can't connect via the web interface or through the printer dialog boox. This is terrible.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-03-26
This might be a bit late, but I solved my problem by doing a re=install of 8.10. That is, I did a format on that partition, and then installed 8.10 again. After the re-install, everything worked well. I regret not knowing what caused the initial failure.

For Michael Steinberg - You didn't list your model number, but if you haven't checked here you might find something. Open the Synaptic Package Manager and do a search for "Brother". There will be about 14 entries. Just start down the list until you find your model number. Good luck.

---

### Post by area01gov on 2010-08-30
sudo /etc/init.d/cups start worked to get my printer back. thanks!  (now on to getting the sound to work)

---

