---
title: "Upgrade to Jaunty: Screen resolution max is 800x600"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by idrinksobe on 2009-05-08
Used 1024x768 before, and now the max res is 800x600. It's a SUPER old KDS CRT. Not sure of the model number :-( It says Visual Sensations on it though. I tried checking the drivers system> administrations> hardware drivers and it says "No proprietary drivers are in use on this system.". The xorg file says:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



It's all kinda intimidating :confused:
Any help would be awesome~

---

### Post by DJYoshaBYD on 2009-05-08
can we get some specs on your PC? motherboard, CPU, Ram, OS version (32 bit or 64 bit), video card please? this will help us..

if you are using an ATI card, then it will not work with jaunty..

---

### Post by idrinksobe on 2009-05-08
Ohhhhh... Thanks, it's an ATI :-?
So.. roll back to intrepid then.

What's different about Jaunty that I can't get the same resolution?

---

