---
title: "18.04 LTS on Dell E6540 with additional Radeon HD 8790M video card."
date: 2019-02-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by drsto on 2019-02-08
Can't find any driver for my Dell Latitude E6540 with second Radeon HD 8790M video card installed.

Video card that I am using now is onboard Intel® Haswell Mobile and it works fine.

I would like to switch to Radeon HD 8790M but nowhere to find the driver.

Instaled OS is Ubuntu 18.04.1 LTS 64-bit.

Any help ?

---

### Post by kc1di on 2019-02-08
Hello drsto and Welcome to Ubuntu forums,

[This page]("https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-the-latest-amd-radeon-drivers-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux") should be of help.

---

### Post by drsto on 2019-02-09
Hello Dave,

Thank your for the prompt response.

I have already visited refereed web link.

But, release note says:
===========================
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]**Linux Distributions Supported**[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]This version of the AMD Radeon Software Crimson Edition Linux Proprietary Graphics Driver is designed to support the following Linux distributions:[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]Distributions supported:[/FONT][/COLOR]

[LIST]
[*]Red Hat Enterprise Linux Suite 7.2, 7.1, 7.0, 6.7, 6.6, 6.5
[*]Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS, 14.04.2, 14.04.3, 15.04, 15.10
[*]SUSE® Linux Enterprise 11 SP3, 12
[*]OpenSuSE 13.1
[/LIST]

Drivers supports Ubuntu versions up to 15.10.

I am afraid to proceed with suggested drivers and end up total mess not knowing how to recover from it.

Did you test the drivers on Ubuntu 18.04. LTS ?

With Best Regards,

Dragan

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-02-09
See post by QIII
       [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2372733](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2372733)
If your card is supported by AMDGPU, it will be installed when you install Ubuntu. You can only install the AMDGPU-PRO overlay if AMDGPU is installed. If your card is not supported by AMDGPU, the Radeon driver will be installed.
It's automagic now. You don't need to do anything unless you have a need or pressing desire for the overlay-- for instance if you need Vulkan support. In that case, AMD has a script that will take care of it.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2019-02-09
> I would like to switch to Radeon HD 8790M but nowhere to find the driver.

The driver is probably already installed/working. To run a program on the Radeon GPU, launch the program with DRI_PRIME=1. For example, use this command to run glxinfo and check the driver of the Radeon GPU:
```
DRI_PRIME=1 glxinfo -B
```

---

