---
title: "Asus 1015PN H265"
date: 2016-12-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nimuel on 2016-12-05
Hi,

I installed ubuntu 16.10 on ASUS 1015PN with nvidia drivers. Should I be able to play H265 videos, either with nvidia or intel card ? Or the cards are too old ?



Thanks

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-05
Welcome to the forums, nimuel,

Though not ancient by any means, yours is a six-year-old entry-level system with rather low-end GPU, low-end CPU and limited RAM (default 1GB). I'm surprised you are happy with Ubuntu on it.

[LIST=1]
[*]I would recommend one of the lighter flavours for your machine: Xubuntu, Lubuntu or Ubuntu-mate
[*]The graphics will run video, but the less additional load on such a machine, the better; hence, my recommendation to eliminate the Unity 3D desktop.
[*]I actually would recommend trying the default open-source drivers first and only installing the nVidia proprietary drivers if *Nouveau* doesn't work. If you take my advice and reinstall a lighter flavour anyway, then don't automatically assume that the closed-source driver is superior. Often, it is no different, more restrictive, poorly supported and will break on upgrades.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by nimuel on 2016-12-06
Hi,

Thanks for your reply DuckHook. The netbook 1015PN has dual core cpu ( 2 threads per core) and hybrid graphics intel/nvidia ion, with 2Gb of ram, maybe it's a little old but not bad in my opinion.

I run ubuntu because I have tried mate, lubuntu and others distros and don't appreciate better performance, just it takes a little more seconds on boot. I have tried open-source drivers and proprietary and it performs better with nvidia drivers, and second monitor management it's better, with open drivers sometimes it gets scrambled image.

I just would like to know if someone with the same netbook is able to play h265 because I have a simple ( and cheap) android tv box and it plays h265 without problem.


Thanks

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2016-12-06
Graphics are too old to accelerate H265 playback. Everything is going to be done on the CPU, and your CPU is relatively weak.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-06
@nimuel

Temüjin is one of our resident HW gurus. If he says:> **Temüjin said:**
> Graphics are too old to accelerate H265 playback. Everything is going to be done on the CPU, and your CPU is relatively weak.&#8230;then that's the way it is.

Although the answer may not be the one you were hoping for, if you are satisfied that it does answer your question, then *please mark thread **solved** using *Thread Tools* in the top toolbar for the benefit of others searching for solutions*.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-12-06
H.265 is a bridge too far, but the onboard VDPAU decoder works quite well for H.264 content.  I have a similar ASUS and have watched H.264-encoded videos on it.

---

### Post by nimuel on 2016-12-07
Hi,

Ok, thanks to all. It seems I'll have to buy another netbook.

Regards

---

