---
title: "9.04 amd64 keeps rebooting on Amilo Pi 3525"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tnttrx on 2009-04-25
I've just done clean install on an empty hdd:

OS: kubuntu 9.04
laptop: FJS Amilo Pi 3525
cpu: Intel P7350
chipset: Intel GM45
ram: 4GB DDR2 800MHz
hdd: WD Scorpio Blue 250GB
wifi: realtek

First reboot happened on time-zone choosing screen during first installation attempt.
Second reboot happened on username/password choosing screen during second installation attempt.
I've managed to install system from third installation attempt, but now I'm getting random reboots without any error messages: sometimes it reboots during the boot sequence, sometimes it runs for 15 or 20 minutes and reboots while it's idle.

Once again: it's clean install on ext3 without any fancy settings/hardware/options.

Window XP SP3 worked without a single problem on the same hardware for months. CPU checked with prime95, memory with memtest86+, hdd with smartmontools (knoppix). No faulty hardware.

Any idea?

:confused:

---

### Post by tnttrx on 2009-04-25
installed kernel 2.6.30-rc3 from here:
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.30-rc3/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.30-rc3/)

but still have same random reboots :(

---

### Post by tnttrx on 2009-04-26
turned off wireless. same problem.

turned off all powersaving options (changed ondemand to perfrmance governor for all power profiles). same problem persisted.

tried to install ubuntu (gnome-based) 9.04 amd64 and got the same random reboot on timezone choosing screen.

knoppix 6.0 worked for ~10 hours without reboot nor any other error.

:evil:

---

### Post by tnttrx on 2009-04-26
ubuntu 8.10 amd64 reboots every time it starts loading kernel. no way to install it.

---

### Post by tnttrx on 2009-04-26
I've found something that looks suspicious.

during the every boot I get the following message right after grub stage 1.5:
```
PCI unsupported PM CAP regs Version (7)
```

this message is present on all versions of ubuntu (8.10, 9.04) both while starting from the livecd and hdd-installed system.

checked "sudo lspci -v" and found one device with "Capabilities: [40] Power Management version 7" - it's Ethernet NIC Realtek RTL8101E/RTL8102E

```
04:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Fujitsu Siemens Computers Device 1136
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 27
        I/O ports at 3000 [size=256]
        Memory at f4000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=4K]
        Memory at f2000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=64K]
        [virtual] Expansion ROM at f2010000 [disabled] [size=64K]
        Capabilities: [40] Power Management version 7
        Capabilities: [50] Message Signalled Interrupts: Mask- 64bit+ Queue=0/0 Enable+
        Capabilities: [70] Express Endpoint, MSI 01
        Capabilities: [ac] MSI-X: Enable- Mask- TabSize=2
        Capabilities: [cc] Vital Product Data <?>
        Capabilities: [100] Advanced Error Reporting <?>
        Capabilities: [140] Virtual Channel <?>
        Capabilities: [160] Device Serial Number 00-00-ff-ff-00-00-01-a2
        Kernel driver in use: r8169
        Kernel modules: r8169
```

I've found that similar problems were around for some time:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-977074.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-977074.html)

[http://forum.ubuntuusers.de/topic/unsupported-pm-cap-regs-version-7-systemstart/#post-1925227](http://forum.ubuntuusers.de/topic/unsupported-pm-cap-regs-version-7-systemstart/#post-1925227)
( [http://translate.google.com/translate?js=n&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fforum.ubuntuusers.de%2Ftopic%2Funsupported-pm-cap-regs-version-7-systemstart%2F%23post-1925227&sl=de&tl=en&history_state0=](http://translate.google.com/translate?js=n&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fforum.ubuntuusers.de%2Ftopic%2Funsupported-pm-cap-regs-version-7-systemstart%2F%23post-1925227&sl=de&tl=en&history_state0=) )

[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/sbinmodprobe-hates-my-nic-717894/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/sbinmodprobe-hates-my-nic-717894/)

Is there any way to turn off Power Management of Realtek Ethernet NIC or at least completely disable it (there's no option for that in BIOS) while linux kernel gets along this problem?

---

### Post by tnttrx on 2009-04-30
anyone having similar problems?

:?:

---

### Post by Blackjim on 2009-05-03
I have the same problem.

Just installed the Ubuntu 9.04 x64 on my Amilo Pi 3540 ( I made an ext4 filesystem for / ) and it keeps rebooting at random times for no apparent reason!! :(

---

### Post by tnttrx on 2009-05-03
by looking here
[http://sp.ts.fujitsu.com/dmsp/docs/ds-amilo-n-pi-3540.pdf](http://sp.ts.fujitsu.com/dmsp/docs/ds-amilo-n-pi-3540.pdf)
I would say that your laptop is the same like mine with an exception of having non-integrated graphic card made by nvidia. everything else is the same and that's why you have the same problem. welcome to the club. :(


I've tried so far:

- **ubuntu 8.10 amd64** - reboots two seconds after livecd starts loading of kernel. disabling acpi gives it few seconds more into the boot process, but nothing important. there's no way to do anything with it.

- **ubuntu 9.04 amd6**4 - sometimes it reboots on kernel load, sometimes during the creating of filesystems, sometimes it manages to install and reboots during normal (idle or non-idle) work regulary.

- **kubuntu 9.04 amd64** - sometimes it reboots on kernel load, sometimes during the creating of filesystems, sometimes it manages to install and reboots during normal (idle or non-idle) work regulary.

- **ubuntu 9.04 x86** - sometimes it reboots on kernel load, sometimes during the creating of filesystems, sometimes it manages to install and reboots during normal (idle or non-idle) work regulary.

- **gentoo minimal amd64 cd** (install-amd64-minimal-20090423.iso) reboots every time it starts autoconfiguration of devices. "gentoo-nofb acpi=off nosmp" gives it a chance to boot, but eventualy it reboots after few minutes. "gentoo-nofb acpi=off nosmp nodetect" boots the system without any power management, drivers nor anything. in that case, system works (seems like stable) until I try to modprobe r8169. then it crashes. install-amd64-minimal-20090423.iso uses kernel 2.6.27.

- **knoppix 6.0 x86** (using kernel 2.6.28 AFAIK) boots and works well (for 10 and more hours). guess it's the only linux working on my laptop and I'm not the only one who has this situation:
[http://www.knoppix.net/forum/viewtopic.php?t=29655](http://www.knoppix.net/forum/viewtopic.php?t=29655)


in my opinion, things that could be a problem are:

- buggy Phoenix BIOS implementation (my Amilo has one)

- overwriting of some part of memory used by Phoenix BIOS - we have: ```
Processor type and features => [ ] Reserve low 64K of RAM on AMI/Phoenix BIOSen option in newer kernel versions
``` and ```
Processor type and features => [ ] Check for low memory corruption
``` with help pointing to ```
If you have doubts about the BIOS (e.g. suspend/resume 
does not work or there's kernel crashes after certain 
hardware hotplug events) and it's not AMI or Phoenix, 
then you might want to enable X86_CHECK_BIOS_CORRUPTION=y 
to allow the kernel to check typical corruption patterns.
```

- some conflict of RTL8101/8102 Realtek 100mbps NIC with r8169 gigabit NIC driver used by kernel to manage RTL8101/8102

- maybe some cpufreq/acpi problem, but not so likely

- combination of more aforesaid problems



does anyone have more info on this topic?

**can someone of developers tell us in which way is knoppix's kernel different to ubuntu's?** 
:confused:

thx.

---

### Post by Blackjim on 2009-05-03
If it helps in any way , I had Mint 6 x86 installed in the same amilo laptop and it never had this problem ( from what I know mint is based on ubuntu ).

---

### Post by TheRootOut on 2009-05-19
Hello [tnttrx]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=709975"),

I also have Amilo Pi 3525 and the same issue with 64bit systems!

From my experience, it's not only linux kernel related issue but also Windows based 64bit systems are having the same problems! 
I have multi boot - WinXP (32bit), Win7 RC (32bit) and Ubuntu 9.04. 32bit. They all work just fine, but when I tried to install Win7 RC 64bit - the same problems like here in this thread occurs! Constant random restart, I had big troubles even to install the system!  Finally I managed to install it, and after 5, 10, 15... min my notebook just restarts!
:o
Read on the forums - even users with Vista 64 bit have the same issue!  And the one and only officialy supported OS for this notebook is VISTA! They just forgot to tell their customers one little detail - it cannot run 64bit Vista, only 32bit! :o

Conclusion: This notebook/CPU is not pure 64bit enabled system as expected! I'm not sure if Intel is to blame or Fujitsu, but since Intel literally killed this CPU (first they said it has Virtualization, then they changed their official page after some time stating that CPU does not have VT, which is true if you look at your flags in cat /proc/cpuinfo ) I bet it's Intel's fault again.
I think I read somewhere on the net, that also users with Toshiba notebooks who also have P7350 CPU are having the same issue with 64bit systems.
:o

Please let me know if you managed to do some workaround with Ubuntu, but I've noticed that PM caps error also in 32bit Ubuntu, so I guess that won't be the cause that restarts the computer constantly.... it must be something else - with 64 bit set of instructions not implemented as they should be!

---

### Post by TheRootOut on 2009-05-19
I forgot to mention I also tried to install Ubuntu 9.04 64bit - but soon after booting up - amilo restarts again and again in random patterns. 

So it's definitely has something to do with 64bit set of instructions / compatibility.  

Intel says Instruction Set 64-bit
[http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=36750](http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=36750)

Have you tried to contact Fujitsu's support? I plan to do it next week. I have 4 GB RAM memory installed and I can't use all of my memory since I can't make my notebook work on 64bit OS!!!

This might help:
[http://ts.fujitsu.com/support/linkapplication.html?LNG=EN&ID=25494](http://ts.fujitsu.com/support/linkapplication.html?LNG=EN&ID=25494)
***********

									
									 										Device Driver - Realtek - RTL8102E/RTL8103E Family PCI-E Fast Ethernet NIC - AMILO Notebook Pi 3525 									 								 							 						 					 					 						 							 								 									 										[IMG]http://support.ts.fujitsu.com/Download/Images/FileExtension/zip.gif[/IMG] 									 									 										Title: 									 									 										**Realtek-  RTL8101 Family PCI-E Fast Ethernet NIC** 										 									 								 								 									  									 										Date: 										 									 									 										**28.12.2007** 										 									 								 								 									 										Size: 										 									 									 										**3,97 MB** 									 								 								 									 										Version: 									 									 										**6.210.1228.2007** 										 									 								 								 									 										Manufacturer: 									 									 										**Realtek** 										 									 								 								 									 										  										 											Status: 										 										 											** 												Released for AMILO Notebook Pi 3525 											** 										 									 									 									 										  										 											Language: 										 										 											[IMG]http://support.ts.fujitsu.com/i/Flaggen/All.gif[/IMG] **Supports all languages** 										 									 									  									 										  										Operating systems: 										 											**[Supported] Windows Vista Home Basic (WHQL)**
**[Supported] Windows Vista Home Premium (WHQL)**
**[UnSupported] **
**...** 											
										 									 									 										 											 												**More Information**  												[IMG]http://support.ts.fujitsu.com/i/down.gif[/IMG] 												 										 																		 									 										  										Operating systems: 										 											[B][Supported] Windows Vista Home Basic (WHQL)
[Supported] Windows Vista Home Premium (WHQL)
[UnSupported] 
[UnSupported] Windows Vista Business
[UnSupported] Windows Vista Business x64
[UnSupported] Windows Vista Enterprise
[UnSupported] Windows Vista Enterprise x64
[UnSupported] Windows Vista Home Basic x64
[UnSupported] Windows Vista Home Premium x64
[UnSupported] Windows Vista Ultimate
[UnSupported] Windows Vista Ultimate x64[/B] 										 									 									 										 											



As we can see - even Vista 64bit is not supported, meaning Pi 3525 isn't compatible with 64bit Windows based systems because of LAN drivers.

---

### Post by tnttrx on 2009-06-17
I'm quite busy these days, so I had no chance to contact Fujitsu support. I'll do that ASAP once I'm over with this obligations of mine.

meanwhile, does anyone reads German?

[http://forum.de.ts.fujitsu.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=60&t=38898](http://forum.de.ts.fujitsu.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=60&t=38898)


?

---

