---
title: "Kodak Printer processing but .."
date: 2012-03-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by UltimateCat on 2012-03-01
I installed the driver for my Kodak Esp 7 printer. I'm running Ubuntu 10.04 : Ultimate Edition 2.7.

Ifound and downloaded the driver at :
[www.sourceforge.com](www.sourceforge.com)

```
c2esp_23-1_i386.deb

```
I typed in the command:
sudo dpkg -i c2esp_23-1_i386.deb 

Into the terminal and it  did not work. ( Command not found ; not installed)
Instead I right clicked on the driver and installed the .deb that way.

Rebooted and tried to print out a document that was in my documents.
The page did not print.
I opened the window for the printer that shows the document and status.

The status says:
```
processing

```

I opened the printing troubleshooting wizard and followed the prompts....and still nothing-

But the printer does not start printing but is on and warmed up. 
This is puzzling to me.....anyone have any insight/ideas or a solution?

---

### Post by paulnewall on 2012-03-02
You might get more detailed progress reports by opening printer manager and double click on your printer. That gives you a window that should give slightly more detail than just "processing".
 
To get lots more detail than that, enable entries in the cups error log, by editing the file /etc/cups/cupsd.conf . You need a line that says: LogLevel debug The default would be: LogLevel warn After editing cupsd.conf, restart cups or reboot and then after printing, open a terminal and use the command c2esplog to extract the relevant lines from the cups error log.

---

### Post by paulnewall on 2012-03-02
Also, does the printer say "printing" on it's display? does it pull in a sheet of paper? when you print?
Do a test printing a small file ( like a text file with 1 line of text) to make sure the problem is not due a large amount of data

---

### Post by UltimateCat on 2012-03-03
Paulnewall:
I wrote down the instructions you gave me.
I'll follow them ( providing I get it right) and post back how the printer is functioning.....but so far:

The printer does not say printing and it hasn't pulled a sheet of paper.

---

### Post by UltimateCat on 2012-03-03
I located the cups.conf folder and opened it.  Saw the Loglevel warn at the top of the page that you mentioned.

Do I change the word "warn" to " debug"?  Or should I  add a line and type in LogLevel debug within the file its self?

Not sure....

---

### Post by paulnewall on 2012-03-04
Yes, the simplest thing is to just change "warn" to "debug"  (without the quotes)
 
I always forget that you won't be able to save the modified file unless you started your editor as the root user 
( for example by opening a terminal and typing:  sudo gedit 
gedit will start, you do the editing, save the file, close gedit and that returns you to the terminal) .
 
If you feel nervous, save a copy of the original file then you can easily go back, but this is quite a simple change.

---

### Post by UltimateCat on 2012-03-12
I have done exactly what you said and the printer is still not working.

The window that shows the information about the document and the number of copies comes up and the cursor flashes but the printer is not printing the document in my documents that I request.  The icon for the printer shows as well next to my clock.

I rebooted like you advised after changing the warn to debug-

Can you think of anything else I might be able to try?

Not sure what is going on but it is a bit frustrating.

---

### Post by paulnewall on 2012-03-12
Now you have LogLevel debug, cups should record information about printing in /var/log/cups/error_log
You should try to print something then look at  /var/log/cups/error_log
Unfortunately it generally contains a huge amount of stuff that's not interesting.
Try and find the job with the highest number, which will by your last attempt to print, for example I have the following (only a few selected lines shown here  for job 376)

I [12/Mar/2012:20:52:52 +0000] [Job 376] Queued on "Eastman-Kodak-Company-KODAK-HERO-9.1-AiO" by "paul".
...
I [12/Mar/2012:20:52:52 +0000] [Job 376] Started filter /usr/lib/cups/filter/pdftopdf (PID 2252)
I [12/Mar/2012:20:52:52 +0000] [Job 376] Started filter /usr/lib/cups/filter/gstoraster (PID 2253)
I [12/Mar/2012:20:52:52 +0000] [Job 376] Started filter /usr/lib/cups/filter/c2espC (PID 2254)
I [12/Mar/2012:20:52:52 +0000] [Job 376] Started backend /usr/lib/cups/backend/dnssd (PID 2255)
...
D [12/Mar/2012:20:52:52 +0000] [Job 376] Looking up "192.168.1.17"...
D [12/Mar/2012:20:52:52 +0000] [Job 376] backendWaitLoop(snmp_fd=5, addr=0x21dc78e4, side_cb=0xe4f370)
D [12/Mar/2012:20:52:52 +0000] [Job 376] ================= c2espC24 ===================================
D [12/Mar/2012:20:52:52 +0000] [Job 376] c2espC:0 : Starting c2espC24

Lines generated by c2esp or c2espC are generated if the filter is actually running and you can extract them from the log file by opening a terminal and typing: c2esplog.
If cups does not get as far as starting the filter, you have to trawl through the logfile looking for lines of interest that might give a clue why it does not run.

In the above you can see the job being queued.
The chain of filters that convert from  pdf to the printer language being started.
Looking up the printer's IP address (I am using a network connection)
My filter C2espC starting. (Many more lines from C2espC follow as it generates the print data and sends it to the printer)

You could paste interesting lines from the log file here, or send me the whole logfile (to [email]quandry@ntlworld.com[/email])

---

### Post by UltimateCat on 2012-03-13
Paulnewall:
   I will try and find the job with the highest # in the last attempt to print and look into the
/var/log/cups/error_log....

or open a terminal like you said and try
```
c2esplog.

```If that still doesn't work I will go through those log files looking for lines that might give us a clue why it does not run; a try-
I will post the log files to your e-mail if all that I try doesn't work.....
Did  you have this much trouble?
I appreciate your help!
Thank You......I'll get back to you

---

### Post by UltimateCat on 2012-03-22
Printer still not working.....:confused:

I checked on the file:
/etc/cups/ppd/Eastman-Kodak-Company-KODAK-ESP7-Aio.ppd

And, it has mention of gutenprint

Is it ok to just go into that file and just delete the word gutenprint?

Running out of ideas anyone: What else could I try to get my printer to print?

---

### Post by paulnewall on 2012-03-22
I think you have the wrong ppd file ( I don't know where yours came from)
Try this to fix it, in ubuntu 10.04

On the menus go to: System, Administration, Printing
That should open a window listing any printers you have set up in cups
Double click on your kodak printer.
That opens another window showing your printer properties.
On the setting page, find Make and Model, beside make and model is a button marked change. 
Click the button.
Your get a little message box "searching for drivers"
(What it's really doing is searching for ppd files and extracting make and model information from them)
A "Change driver" window appears.
Select the make "Kodak", Click the "Forward" button.
Now you see a list of models.
Look for a model that is close to yours, for ESP 7 I'd try ESP 7200
Click on the model in the left hand pane, then click on a driver in the right hand pane.
Then click the forward button.
Then you get an "Existing settings window. Pick the "use the new ppd" option, click the apply button.
That's it, now you try to print something using that printer, maybe the test page. 

Does that fix the problem?

---

### Post by UltimateCat on 2012-04-11
Have decided to hang it up as nothing I've tried works.

This Kodak printer only works on the Windows side of my partition-

---

