---
title: "Help with resolution!"
date: 2008-07-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ftornell on 2008-07-17
Hi,
Running Ubuntu 8.04 on Lenovo T61p laptop.

When using default drivers I can have the resolution 1280x800 as I want.

When activating the restricted nvidia drivers I end up with a higher resolution 1680x1050. Works perfect but I wanna change to the other resolution that was 1280x800, but it doesn't show that in the list...

It shows 6-7 other resolutions but not the one I want.

How can I add it so I can change to it?

Help appreciated! :)

---

### Post by mzhb@mac.com on 2008-07-17
You can manually add the configuration to the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf

do a backup before you do any change to that file.

---

### Post by ftornell on 2008-07-18
It looks like this now when not using the restricted drivers!

[PHP]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"se"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
[/PHP]

Guess the xorg.conf file will change when I add the driver right?
But what and where to modify? Add a SubSection?

[PHP]
SubSection "Display"
        Resolution      "1280x800"
EndSubSection
[/PHP]

Tips?

---

### Post by ftornell on 2008-08-14
bumpin' it up a bit!

---

### Post by 5l4y3r on 2008-08-15
Did you try changing the resolution by the nVidia Control Center installed with the driver or by going to System>>Preferences>>Screen Resolution?
Sometimes one has resolution options that other does not have.

---

