---
title: "8.10 hp dv6000 random lockups"
date: 2008-11-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by burntash on 2008-11-17
i have an hp pavilion dv6000 laptop.  installed intrepid and everything works fine.  wireless, video, trackpad, the special blue slide buttons for volume etc.  the system freezes with both regular video drivers, and the restricted.

but for some reason, completely fresh and stock install the system will lock up at completely random times. from im, to system update, to firefox browsing, or even leaving the laptop completely alone and leaving the room and coming back in and see it locked up.  cant move the mouse, cant use the keyboard and the capslock button flashes, just total lock up. nothing being recorded or dumped to the system logs.  ran memtest, memory is fine.

laptop specs:
- HP Pavilion dv6700t Entertainment CTO NB
- Intel(R) Core(TM) 2 Duo Processor T9300 (2.50 GHz, 6 MB L2 Cache, 800MHz FSB)
- 15.4" diagonal WXGA High-Definition HP BrightView Widescreen Display (1280 x 800)
- 3GB DDR2 System Memory (2 Dimm)
- 256MB NVIDIA GeForce 8400M GS
- HP Imprint Finish (Radiance) + Microphone
- Intel(R) PRO/Wireless 4965AGN Network Connection
- 320GB 5400RPM SATA Hard Drive
- LightScribe SuperMulti 8X DVD+/-RW with Double Layer Support
- 12 Cell Lithium Ion Battery

what could the problem be?  because from what i read the laptop is supposedly supported/fully supported.  so i have no idea why its having these issues.

---

### Post by burntash on 2008-11-17
well i saw that maybe its the wireless thats freezing the system

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810#System%20lock-ups%20with%20Intel%204965%20wireless](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810#System%20lock-ups%20with%20Intel%204965%20wireless)

> System lock-ups with Intel 4965 wireless

The version of the iwlagn wireless driver for Intel 4965 wireless chipsets included in Linux kernel version 2.6.27 causes kernel panics when used with 802.11n or 802.11g networks. Users affected by this issue can install the linux-backports-modules-intrepid package, to install a newer version of this driver that corrects the bug. (Because the known fix requires a new version of the driver, it is not expected to be possible to include this fix in the main kernel package.) 

so i went ahead and 'sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-intrepid'

hopefully that is the issue and its resolved.  but just in case there might be other issues at hand, any more ideas besides the wireless?

---

### Post by agovinda on 2008-12-20
thanks.. looks like that solved the problem I was facing too...

however the wireless light still keeps changing from blu to orange, orange to blue quite continuously.. any idea why ?

---

### Post by bdoe on 2008-12-20
The Wifi light blinks blue and orange to indicate network activity. Perhaps you have a background process or an applet that continuously accesses the internet?

---

