---
title: "Intel_Do_Flush_Lock failure."
date: 2014-11-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by thenh813 on 2014-11-18
NOTICE: To anyone reading this, there is no fix for it, install a  different recent GPU (AMD/NVidia, past 5-6 years) or wait for the next  Ubuntu release (very impractical). If you have a laptop, you are  basically out of luck, and no fix is available other than using  unaccelerated VESA drivers (games will run horrible) or replacing the  graphics chipset (probabally impossible). Go use another Linux Distro  for now, I reccommend Puppy Linux Slacko/Precise for Laptops or older  hardware, and for anything else, there are plenty out there. I  personally reccommend Korora (Fedora Derivitive) for use on a  desktop. It has a newer kernel, so this issue is not there  there, it in fact has the 3.17 kernel.

First, I have searched on the forums, and found nothing, but the search may have missed an existing thread.
I found a thread at Archlinux's Forums that described the fix as installing kernel 3.16.4/3.17.X (or now 3.18.X) however those are NOT in the updates manager. I have kernel 3.13 and it appears to be the latest "Ubuntu" version. Why are they so slow to push new kernels out, that always bothered me. The faster you put it out, the faster previous bugs are fixed and new ones can be patched before its too late because th emonths of reviewing missed a REALLY BAD one. The version of Ubuntu I am running is Kubuntu 14.04 LTS with nothing "unusual" done to it. Everytime anything that uses the GPU (Intel i915 driver, Extreme Graphics 2) opens for about a tenth second and diasppears. Running them from terminal, the last line is always someting like this: ABORTING intel_do_flush_lock has failed. Unable to initialize graphics. The ArchLinux forums said that it was sa bug patched in 3.16.4 and higher but they are not available. Is it possible to recompile the kernel with the patch or compile a kernel from Kernel.org using Ubuntu's config? Everytime I try to make my own kernel for Ubuntu it NEVER finds the HDD where it is installed and panics or drops out to initramfs-shell. This is annoying as hell because the dediacted AGP card I have no longer has drivers that work with recent Ubuntu versions (Legacy drivers 96.x to 130.x). I also moved to a new MB, which has fairly OK integrated GPU for playing HD video and running light games like Minetest or AssaultCube/Nexuiz. It has a Intel Celeron D 3.6GHZ with hyperthreading, so its decently fast. Using SoftGL (CPU rendered graphics) works OK but the FPS is under 18 whic ABSOLUTELY sucks. The window manager kept crashing as soon as it loaded till I switched to X11 video for acceleration during install and after. Obviously something in the driver responsible for initializing OpenGL is not working. I thought the Window Manager thing meant nothing because its not the newest hardware, but was wrong when I tried to open a game. In fact my PCB designer software will not work because of it, FreeCAD wont, the 3D printer software wont and my Oscilliscope program wont (uses the sound card or a USB probe). These are things I NEED TO USE for things I am doing. VirtualBox and Wine crash with the same graphics error whenever I attempt to use a DirectX based program. Puppy Linux Lucid 528 with the ancient 2.X kernel works perfectly, after installing the Intel drivers from source, the same cannot be said for Ubuntu. Downgrading the krnel is NOT an option because my capture card is first supported in 3.13.X. My motherboard is now a newer viriant of the 865G series.

Also, my Wireless G adaptor didnt work till I extracted a file from the Windows driver's .sys file and put it in /lib/firmware. Apparantly the P54USB/Prism54 driver on Ubunut (not anything else I used) lacks the firmware by default. To whoever made this, your glad I had I copy of windows to hack the FW out of, becuase I was far from Ethernet and had only wireless. Can someone please explain why they left it out! That is the dumbest idea ever, even if it is "closed source" because its still free. Some people dont exactly know how to modify Windows programs by using hex editors to find a magic number and extract the next 32KB from the binary to put on their Linux machine. For once, I will thank Windows for fixing Linux.

Other than that, I couldn't like Kubuntu 14.04 any better, I have no other problems with it and like it very much. Sorry if  I misspelled anything, I am typing pretty fast right now becuase I want help pretty soon and want to be as descriptive as possible.

---

### Post by thenh813 on 2014-11-18
@Elfy: Thanks for the edit, I didn't really mean to say that. I need to type what I want to say in a text editor, wait till im calmed down and look it over before posting. Sorry about that.

Im gonna put a ancient Geforce 4 MX 440 in and see how it runs. This is the card that I cannot get the proprietary drivers working for anymore, which is partly why I upgraded in the first place. I guess I will have to make a massive kernel downgrade to 3.2/2.X to run them. I will use that untill I get some replies and help on fixing the Intel driver. At least I know simple 2D/3D graphics in my design programs will work fine, having used them for years on my old PC. Before installing the card though, I am gonna just try integrated with the older kernel. I forgot the capture card (USB) works on Windows in a VM when I mount the USB device. I guess an older kernel is OK if I have to, but I would prefer the newer one. If it DOES work on the old kernel, I will send bug report to the Ubuntu team on it. Hopefully they would release a newer kernel then.

 EDIT: 14.04 has no kernels older than 3.13... No idea what to say. Well, I downloading one from the 12.04 repos and installing the complete linux-image-3.2.0-70 *.DEB with DPKG. Hopefully something dosent break,i tshouldnt because it s just a kernel and precompiled initrd.

EDIT2: Old kernel worked perfectly, Intel drivers would not load, so stuck with VESA. I tried installing the card, and drivers, but something killed close to half of Xorg's system files after trying to disable Nouveau and reinstalling the NVidia driver twice trying to get X to load. Now all Xorg does is display a blank screen and exit 10 seconds later. No error reported. I am gonna have to reinstall now, oh well, it wasn't really usable anyway. At least I can backup the apt-cache folder and reuse all the downloaded files for the applications I have installed. Cannot purge and reinstall X due to Wireless needing GUI to come up for connection, so reinstall it is. Nice having /home on a separate partition for times like this, good thing I do. Back to the drawing board, I guess. I failed AGAIN...

---

### Post by thenh813 on 2014-11-19
I no longer care about the Integrated GPU because Nouveau works just  fine on the GF4 MX 440 for light FPS games, SuperTuxKart, and FreeCAD/PCB Design. The integrated GPU works even better. Windows even works faster in VirtualBox for DirectX than it did on a hardware install, go figure. WattOS does support the "ancient" drivers, but I do not need them as I will be using the Integrated GPU. My DVD burner broke so I have to ordered a new laser diode to put in it, so I cannot really practically install a distro larger than 700MB now. I am using WattOS from a custom multi CD set I made a few years ago. The first disk goes through install setup stuff, allows you to select software and then prompts disk switch till I go through all 17 of them (whichever ones necessary). The other disks are sorted by category and contain dependancies for each application, even if the other disks have them, to simplify things. It uses a Software Center like thingy I made in Python that took a few weeks, a half hour a day. I selected KDE on that during the Install and am forgetting about Ubuntu for good now, seeing how it cannot work on my hardware. Very sad for me, I always liked Xubuntu and Kubuntu, but I must move on. The WattOS version I am running is based on Debian (WattOS R8). Please do not ask to get it, I cannot upload stuff on 0.5MBits (50 KBytes) per second connection without it taking DAYS so that is out of the question. I hope this is fixed soon, and no hard feelings towards Ubuntu, it just will not work. 

I can use the USB capture card in Windows (VirtualBox), printer in VirtualBox through sharing on localhost (as usual) and Integrated Graphics . Problem resolved (well, not really) and is of no more worry for the time being.

---

