---
title: "Weird display problems"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by itk506 on 2008-12-22
I have a strange problem with window management. After installation, or even when I use Intrepid from the live cd, it works fine for a few minutes. But then the problems start: I cannot move windows more than a few millimeters, minimized windows cannot be restored, tabs behave erratically etc. This is not specific to Gnome, as I also experienced the same problems under KDE, and indeed, under other distributions (Opensuse, Mandriva). The funny things is the same thing happened a couple of months ago, but then wiping the hard disk clean and reinstalling solved the issue (but not this time).

Sorry for not being more specific, but I would need some help even diagnosing the problem in more detail. I am fairly experienced with Linux, and I am not afraid to use the command line, but I am not particularly knowledgeable with config files and system maintenance.

Thanks a lot for any help!

---

### Post by itk506 on 2008-12-22
Just a few more things to add. First of all, I have an Acer Travelmate 6292 with Intel GMA X3100. Second, the problem may be related to Firefox: up to now I had no problems, but just as I started Firefox they came back again.

---

### Post by densou on 2008-12-22
Compiz doesn't like Intel video cards much .... do you use grapA help and support forum for Ubuntu Linux.hic effects ?

Do you run the out-of-the-box version of Firefox ? (e.g. no add-ons, just basic plugins like Flash/Gnash, Java/icedtea and Totem)

Paste here your xorg.conf ( /etc/X11/xorg.conf ).
I'd recommend to update, for users who have a X3100 or 4500MHD card, Intel drivers with newer stable backports: [https://launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive](https://launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive) (or avaiable only on Jaunty's repositories or from sources :( )

---

### Post by itk506 on 2008-12-22
Thanks for the reply. I run the stock Firefox, and I have problems without Compiz (i.e. when I turn off the Desktop Effects)

Here is my xorg.conf:


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"

I will try the Intel drivers you suggested.

---

### Post by densou on 2008-12-22
That's quite generic, you should set few things.

Use mine:
[http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new](http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new)
It works fine on Intrepid, and got no issues with CRTs/LCDs while I had to fix a resolution before (if I wanted to use 85hz: [http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.ibex](http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.ibex) )

plus, you could need to edit /etc/modules  .... add these lines if you don't see them:
```
agpgart
intel-agp
drm
```

---

