---
title: "hp 5103"
date: 2011-02-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by exzenter on 2011-02-19
Hi.
I hope you excuse my bad English. Im from Switzerland.
I bought the HP 5103. And i installed the ubuntu from a usb stick.
Now i have to plug in the USB stick when i want to boot from internal harddrive.
Otherwise, after booting the bios there appears the Yukon pxe. And he says he couldn't find a bootable Hard drive.
I tried to disable pxe, but id didn't  worked
I hope somebody can help me!
pleeeeeease:)

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2011-02-20
do you get any error message ?

---

### Post by honzee on 2011-02-20
It looks like you have installed GRUB on your flash drive. Try to install GRUB on your hard drive.

---

### Post by teddfox on 2011-02-21
I have a 5103 and it is AWESOME for Ubuntu!!!  

My suggestion to install is to use the SD card and not a USB card slot. I could not get a boot off of USB stick, but it was super easy from sdcard.   It all worked FLAWLESSLY after that.  I still have slow WiFi association and slow Wifi Connection, some Ethernet issues (I will get these figured out).  I am a newbie to Ubuntu and I am having a BLAST with this little laptop.

#aweosme

---

### Post by exzenter on 2011-02-21
> **honzee said:**
> It looks like you have installed GRUB on your flash drive. Try to install GRUB on your hard drive.

hi. i tried to install the grub over synaptic.
I had to choose between sdb and sdb1.
I tried to install it on both.
Id didn't worked.
Is the problem that my boot partition is called sdb1?
I installed grub-pc? should i try to install grub ore grub2? 
@jerrrys
the errors are:
pxe-e61
pxe-m0f

Non-System disk or disk error. Replace drive and strike any key when ready

---

### Post by BinaryMn on 2011-02-27
I've also got an HP Mini 5103. I've had a great experience with the Ubuntu 10.04 64-bit over the 32-bit version.

---

### Post by jaywink on 2011-03-08
Hi gang,

Thinking of buying the HP Mini 5103 laptop, the touchscreen version. I've googled and googled and searched forums (including this one), and cannot find anyone confirming the touchscreen works. Actually I cannot find anyone saying it doesn't work either :)

So, anyone here that knows anything or have tried it themselves? I would really love a touchscreen netbook and this one is just about the only one that seems to be available easily here in Finland (scandic keys u know). The demo of Unity on a touchscreen laptop looked hot, if it works half as good as in the video I'm sold :)

Thanks,
Jason

---

