---
title: "[SOLVED] M1330 External Video source"
date: 2008-09-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-08
I have been searching for an answer to this.   I train off my Dell m1330 laptop a lot and I have not been able to get the laptop to project to a projector.  I open up the NVidia control panel and see the projector there.  However, it will only do 640 by 420..  Someone is going to ask for my xorg. I will post that later?   What should I try?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-09-08
> **shartke said:**
> I have been searching for an answer to this.   I train off my Dell m1330 laptop a lot and I have not been able to get the laptop to project to a projector.  I open up the NVidia control panel and see the projector there.  However, it will only do 640 by 420..  Someone is going to ask for my xorg. I will post that later?   What should I try?

Hi and have you saved that configuration with the projector to your xorg? If so then you may try and edit the xorg and change the resolution. Also you may try the command ```
gksu displayconfig-gtk
``` and adjust the resolution there. But make a backup of you xorg first because you can render your graphics useless. :)

---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-08
When I run that command I get 
[]
Traceback (most recent call last):  File "/usr/bin/displayconfig-gtk", line 75, in <module>
    app = DisplayConfig(options)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/displayconfiggtk/DisplayConfig.py", line 189, in __init__
    debug_scan_pci_filename=self.options.pcitable)
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/displayconfigabstraction.py", line 394, in __init__
    self._finalizeInit()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/displayconfigabstraction.py", line 418, in _finalizeInit
    self.setLayout(gfxcard._getDetectedLayout())
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/displayconfigabstraction.py", line 972, in setLayout
    gfxcard.setLayout(XSetup.LAYOUT_CLONE)
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/displayconfigabstraction.py", line 1184, in setLayout
    screen._resyncResolution()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/displayconfigabstraction.py", line 1861, in _resyncResolution
    self.gfx_card.setup.getPrimaryScreen()._resyncResolution()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/displayconfigabstraction.py", line 1817, in _resyncResolution
    (preferred_width,preferred_height) = self.getAvailableResolutions()[-1]
IndexError: list index out of range


I tried to modify my xorg for the projector but when  I restart xorg my laptop screen goes very tiny and it does not keep the resolution.

EDIT: I did a dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and it works fine without the Nvidia display - If I add  the nvidia back in it will not let me choose anything higher then 640x480

---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-08
Here is my xorg.conf

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Thu Jun  5 09:27:12 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400M GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 640x480 +1280+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1280x800 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-09
If I uninstall the nvidia driver and do a dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg everything works fine using the vesa driver..  As soon as I install the nvidia driver it stops working.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-09-09
> **shartke said:**
> If I uninstall the nvidia driver and do a dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg everything works fine using the vesa driver..  As soon as I install the nvidia driver it stops working.

Ok have you tried to install the nvidia drivers manually from the nvidia site. 
Also if you can get back to the xorg you shown earlier 

```
[COLOR="Red"]# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 640x480 +1280+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"[/COLOR]
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Videocard0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "TwinView" "1"
Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1280x800 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection
```
You may be able to uncomment the line I have highlighted and change the resolution there.
How much memory is in the system and how is it shared with the graphics card?

---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-09
I have an Nvidia 8400 I thought it was 128Megs of Vram but the Nvidia program says 256.. I have 3 gigs of ram. I am guessing it is the Nvidia driver that is causing a problem.. I tried changing the line you referenced in the Xorg and the projector is not getting a signal.

---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-09
I really do appreciate your help on this!  Just to give you a status of where I am.   I am back in the hotel room and I spent all night trying to get the nvidia driver back on.. ( It was giving me a real problem)  I actually got a newer version of the driver!! We will see if that does the trick tomorrow when I am at the training center.  Again, thanks for your help.

---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-10
After changing the Nvidia driver it still is not working.  I even changed that entry in the xorg file.

---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-11
Does anyone know?   It seems like Nvidia is blacklisting this projector?

---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-12
I just re-installed my os.  Still no worky :D

---

### Post by shartke on 2008-09-14
Bump - Anyone?

---

