---
title: "11.04 wireless issue AR9287/AR5B97"
date: 2011-05-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by robertburns on 2011-05-06
Im dualbooting my new acer aspire 1830T. 

with windows 7 the atheros wireless card works great. 

with the latest ubuntu it doesnt work at all.

Windows reports it as an Atheros AR5B97 however doing a lscpi in ubuntu shows it as an AR9287.

Not too sure what i should be doing to get this up and running in ubuntu, any help would be much appreciated.

Thanks.

RB

---

### Post by theohcat on 2011-05-11
Have you tried installing wireless-compat?

---

### Post by link_108 on 2011-05-26
Any update on this? I'm having the same problem as well.

---

### Post by brandlerson on 2011-05-26
It's most likely a driver issue. Have you tried plugging into you router to download all the necessary drivers?

---

### Post by ziad.ra on 2011-07-05
Hy!

I am not sure that this will help you if you have no connection at all, but definitely works when you have some unstable connection. 

```
echo "options ath9k nohwcrypt=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/ath9k.conf
```

Then reboot.

Imre

---

### Post by Snacknap on 2011-07-07
> **robertburns said:**
> Im dualbooting my new acer aspire 1830T. 

with windows 7 the atheros wireless card works great. 

with the latest ubuntu it doesnt work at all.

Windows reports it as an Atheros AR5B97 however doing a lscpi in ubuntu shows it as an AR9287.

Not too sure what i should be doing to get this up and running in ubuntu, any help would be much appreciated.

Thanks.

RB
```
sudo modprobe.d -r acer-wmi
```I have the same latop

---

### Post by bintalal on 2011-07-10
> **Snacknap said:**
> ```
sudo modprobe.d -r acer-wmi
```I have the same latop

I have Acer Aspire 5750G, the wireless is AR5B97 in windows and AR9287 in Ubuntu 11.04.

In Ubuntu I can see my home network and attempt to connect but after few minutes the authentication dialogue reappears. The same happens with Fedora 15 (live CD) but Puppy Linux 0.5.2 connects (also live CD).

I am now on Windows 7 looking for a solution, I looked up "modprobe.d" and found this: [http://linux.die.net/man/5/modprobe.d](http://linux.die.net/man/5/modprobe.d)

did you mean to write: ```
sudo modprobe -r acer-wmi
```should I reboot after this command or not? 

thanks a lot.

---

### Post by bintalal on 2011-07-10
I tried the following:

```
~$ sudo modprobe -lv acer*
kernel/drivers/platform/x86/acer-wmi.ko
kernel/drivers/platform/x86/acerhdf.ko

~$ sudo modprobe -rv acer-wmi
rmmod /lib/modules/2.6.38-8-generic/kernel/drivers/input/sparse-keymap.ko

~$ sudo modprobe -rv acer-wmi

~$ sudo modprobe -lv acer*
kernel/drivers/platform/x86/acer-wmi.ko
kernel/drivers/platform/x86/acerhdf.ko
```still I couldn't connect (even after a reboot).

I tried adding a ath9k.conf with the line in ziad.ra's post but that made the whole wireless network disappear (after a reboot).

Anyone has an idea what to do?

---

### Post by bintalal on 2011-07-10
> **robertburns said:**
> 
Windows reports it as an Atheros AR5B97 however doing a lscpi in ubuntu shows it as an AR9287.


I don't think that is the problem because Puppy Linux (0.5.2) reports it as AR9287 but connects with the network without any problems! 

If anyone has an idea about this one please help, thanks.

---

### Post by sulehri on 2011-08-09
Same issue .. looking forward for someone from support to sort this out

---

### Post by wnelson on 2011-08-09
What does 
rfkill list 

return?

---

### Post by bintalal on 2011-08-10
> **wnelson said:**
> What does 
rfkill list 

return?

I wish I could tell you, but since I only have a WiFi connection I gave up on installing any Linux distro on my laptop and even deleted the partition I had made especially for that. 

I tried to find out what made Puppy the only distro to connect, maybe the kernel has an effect since Puppy uses 2.6.33 and Natty 2.6.38? All the other distro's I tried (arch, fedora, etc) are new releases and I assume they use the newest kernel, but I haven't checked.

I have since discovered VirtualBox and installed an Ubuntu server, it feels just like a terminal, so I don't think I will be trying to install anything, not until I get an Ethernet cable plugged in anyway.

---

### Post by vagnergf on 2011-08-15
Hello,

I have the same problem, for windows the driver is AR5B97 and from Ubuntu lsci comand is AR9287. From the "rfkill list" comand I got:

0: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no

I'm using the Ubuntu 11.04 and my laptop is a Acer aspire 5830TG. When I just used the LiveCD as well as after install the Ubuntu the wireless worked well, however, after the normal update of the system I can't see my wireless network any more. Please, if someone can help me.

The best of luck,

Vagner

---

### Post by mcalautt on 2011-08-15
got the same problem.. I am wicked aggravated

i posted a thread.
[COLOR=#980101]**[ubuntu]**[/COLOR]                          [brand new ACER with Atheros AR9285 wireless adptr not working on 11.04]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1823812")

not getting much help though.

I just bought a brand new Acer Aspire AS5733Z-4445 Intel Pentium    P6100(2.00GHz) 15.6" 3GB Memory 320GB HDD Intel HD Graphics Notebook
 installed the latest ubuntu 11.04.
 Nothing shows up in a wireless scan and if I enter my access point info in manually it doesnt work.
also odd, sometimes iwlist scan returns info for wlan0 and sometimes it doesnt.:(

oh and my rfkill returns the same as well

Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no

---

### Post by mcalautt on 2011-08-20
this worked for me .. seems ok so far.

echo "options ath9k nohwcrypt=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/ath9k.conf

---

### Post by mcalautt on 2011-08-24
now im mad..

its extremely unstable and I can see the router from where I am.. !!!!
take 2 steps foward and it will connect..
the range is miserable !!
so as far as im concerned its not usable and the problem still exists.

i guess I have to go to the darkside and use WINDOWS

---

