---
title: "32 or 64 bit"
date: 2011-03-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Vinger on 2011-03-26
Hello,

i'm used to install 32bit systems... 
I was wondering if i reinstall my laptop (i run Kubuntu 10.10 for the moment) if i could better install the 64 bit system?
What are the pros and contra?

My processer is an intel core2duo T5870, which has a 64 bit instruction set...
> 
koen@Koen-Kubuntu:~$ lshw
...
     *-cpu
          product: Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU     T5870  @ 2.00GHz
          vendor: Intel Corp.
          physical id: 1
          bus info: cpu@0
          version: 6.15.13
          serial: 0000-06FD-0000-0000-0000-0000
          size: 2001MHz
          capacity: 2001MHz
          width: 64 bits
          capabilities: fpu fpu_exception wp vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe nx x86-64 constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts aperfmperf pni dtes64 monitor ds_cpl est tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm lahf_lm ida cpufreq
          configuration: id=1
        *-logicalcpu:0
             description: Logical CPU
             physical id: 1.1
             width: 64 bits
             capabilities: logical
        *-logicalcpu:1
             description: Logical CPU
             physical id: 1.2
             width: 64 bits
             capabilities: logical
...


Allready thanks.

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-03-26
Install the 64bit iso.  Don't believe all the cautions you'll likely rx here in this thread.  Just try it and see how it goes.  I'm running 11.04 natty amd64 and it's been perfect.  Phenom III core, 2GByte RAM

---

### Post by foutes on 2011-03-26
How much memory does the laptop have?

If only 1 gig  then I would stay with 32 bit.

2 gig or more then definitely 64 bit.

---

### Post by Vinger on 2011-03-27
> koen@Koen-Kubuntu:~$ lshw
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
koen-kubuntu              
    description: Computer
    width: 32 bits
  *-core
       description: Motherboard
       physical id: 0
     *-memory
          description: System memory
          physical id: 0
          size: 3015MiB
...


So i think i have 3GB...
Does anyone know a site about pro and contra of 64bit?

tx.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-03-27
The only con I can think of is no Flash GPU acceleration (but you need an Nvidia card and their binary driver to get that anyway). Use sevenmachines' PPA for Flash: [https://launchpad.net/~sevenmachines/+archive/flash](https://launchpad.net/~sevenmachines/+archive/flash)

Other than that, you shouldn't have any issues unless you have other programs that are closed-source or only available in 32-bit form, and there are ways to work around that.

---

### Post by nrundy on 2011-03-27
What about web browsing? Everything will be smooth with 64-bit OS and 32-bit Browser with 32-bit Adobe Flash Player? The 32-bit flash can install and run fine on 64-bit os?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-03-27
No, the 32-bit Flash plugin running through nspluginwrapper is crash prone (unless you run a 32-bit browser without the wrapper). That's why a lot of 64-bit users prefer the native 64-bit version of Flash, which is installed by the aforementioned PPA.

---

### Post by JRV on 2011-03-27
The only thing I am aware of that 64 bit can not do is print Lightscribe labels.  The 64 bit applications are not available.

---

### Post by fela on 2011-03-27
I'd say without a doubt go with 64 bit. The world needs to move over to 64 bit otherwise device/software support will become retarded (in the non-rude sense of the word).

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2011-03-27
64-bit.

---

### Post by JRV on 2011-03-28
> **fela said:**
> I'd say without a doubt go with 64 bit. The world needs to move over to 64 bit otherwise device/software support will become retarded (in the non-rude sense of the word).

Right, I was amazed at how long it took to move to full 32 bit.  The 80386 processor was introduced in 1985, and it took until Windows XP was introduced in 2001 before 32 bit became the norm.  I thought it really strange that Microsoft introduced a 16 bit operating system (Windows 95) in 1995.

---

### Post by jocampo on 2011-03-28
64 bit

I've been using 64 bit for almost two years and no problems so far. But my Virtual Box machines run a bit faster and I can take advantage of the 64 bit instructions.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-03-28
Hi!

Doesn't 64 bit require 4gb ram?

KegHead

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-03-28
> **KegHead said:**
> Hi!

Doesn't 64 bit require 4gb ram?

KegHead
No

---

### Post by fela on 2011-03-28
> **JRV said:**
> Right, I was amazed at how long it took to move to full 32 bit.  The 80386 processor was introduced in 1985, and it took until Windows XP was introduced in 2001 before 32 bit became the norm.  I thought it really strange that Microsoft introduced a 16 bit operating system (Windows 95) in 1995.

Well that's exactly the sort of thing MS would do so...

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-03-29
> Originally Posted by **KegHead** 					[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/viewpost.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10611898#post10611898") 				
 				[I]Hi!

Doesn't 64 bit require 4gb ram?

KegHead[/I]

> **Temüjin said:**
> No

Mas Uno; ademas [**Hell]**

---

### Post by JRV on 2011-03-29
> **KegHead said:**
> Hi!

Doesn't 64 bit require 4gb ram?

KegHead

32 bit can only address up to 4 gig.
64 bit can address over 4 gig, but 4 gig is not required.
My test system is an Intel Atom Mini-ITX board with 64 bit Ubuntu 11.04, and 2 gig of RAM.

---

### Post by Hakunka-Matata on 2011-04-05
> **JRV said:**
> 32 bit can only address up to 4 gig.
64 bit can address over 4 gig, but 4 gig is not required.
My test system is an *_**Intel Atom Mini-ITX board with 64 bit Ubuntu 11.04**_*, and 2 gig of RAM.

What CPU?  N270, I think not, because I tried to install 11.04.amd64 on my N270 and I got bounced, "Not 64 bit capable CPU"

---

### Post by fallenshadow on 2011-04-05
Ive been using 64bit for about 2 years with no problems. Even though my PC only has 1Gig of ram it still runs faster than when I was running 32bit.

---

### Post by spacesamurai on 2011-04-05
I too have started to run with 64 bit. Many have told me the horrors of 64 bit not being supported, but I have never experienced any problems so far. Just two benefits I have already seen include faster MP3 encoding and faster virtual servers.

Give it a try and see if it gives you any problems. I for one would like to see them.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2011-04-05
> **Hakunka-Matata said:**
> What CPU?  N270, I think not, because I tried to install 11.04.amd64 on my N270 and I got bounced, "Not 64 bit capable CPU"

I have an N450 and it is 64-bit capable.

[http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=42503](http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=42503)

---

