---
title: "12.10"
date: 2012-11-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by herczigem on 2012-11-09
Hello Ubuntu users!

I have laptop with Nvidia GT 555 video card.
System Ubuntu 12.10, kernel Linux 3.5.0-17-generic

1 step what i do:

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:bumblebee/stable 
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates 
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia 

restart system

optirun glxgears

This message give me:
Cannot access secondary GPU - error: Could not load GPU driver 
Aborting because fallback start is disabled.

2. step

sudo gedit /etc/bumblebee/bumblebee.conf

change 

 Driver= 
 to 
 Driver=nvidia

 and

 KernelDriver=nvidia-current 
 to 
 KernelDriver=nvidia

restart the system

optirun glxgears

This message give me:

The Bumblebee daemon has not been started yet or the socket path /var/run/bumblebee.socket was incorrect.
Could not connect to bumblebee daemon - is it running?

SOLVED! Follow this way:

[B][I]"KernelDriver=nvidia-current is correct if you have installed the nvidia-current package, you should not change that on Ubuntu. Since Ubuntu 12.10, you need to install the kernel headers yourself.

So, revert your KernelDriver change (the Driver= one does not matter) and install the kernel headers:
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic

This should automatically build the nvidia module. When this is completed, reboot or start the Bumblebee daemon:
sudo start bumblebeed

Then try running optirun glxspheres again."[/I][/B]

Help me Lekensteyn on other forum side. Thank you!

---

