---
title: "8.10 doesn't display on my plasma properly"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ill1cit on 2008-10-31
Hi guys,

I have been running 8.04 on a Dell GX 260. It has been running fine.

I use it as a media centre PC so it is hooked up to my plasma which is a Panasonic Viera TH-42PX600a.

Under 8.04 it the desktop res is set to 1280 by 800 at 60 hz. This fits the screen perfectly.

However I upgraded to 8.10 and the screen messed up. It is like it is only using 3/4 of the screen and green artifacts appears in the black spaces around desktop. After reboot the ubuntu login screen doesn't appear.

I downloaded 8.10 thinking I should do a clean install however the live cd and the installer screens do the same thing. Thelive cd doesn't actually boot, however it starts to load the display and you can see it is only taking p 3/4 of the screen and then it just sits there on a blank screen. You can see the mouse pointer and it moves around. 

I am a bit of a n00b at ubuntu so I have no idea were to start to trouble shoot this out.

For the moment I have another Dell laptop with 8.04 on it so I am just using that as my media centre pc until I sort out the GX 260.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by ill1cit on 2008-10-31
I think the video card in the gx 260 is a Intel 845G/GL.

I will have to find a 8.04 live cd to check for sure if required.

---

### Post by ill1cit on 2008-10-31
Ok this has turned out to be two problems. As mentioned in the release notes there is a bug in the Intel video driver that comes with 8.10 that kills compiz when using a 845G video card. 

Basically just had to disable compiz (F4 on start up -> safe mode, System -> Preferences -> Appearance -> Visual effects -> None).

However I am still having the original problem which appears to be the new xorg.conf-less z.org doesn't detect my plasma's res properly. Not sure how to fix that! Any help would be appreciated.

---

