---
title: "AW A51-m15x"
date: 2010-10-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Zushakon on 2010-10-20
It's taken me a while to get over my embarrassment to come out and ask this, but now that I'm here I hope someone might help me resolve this issue (or at least, come up with plausible causes of the problem, which I can maybe then take to the manufacturer.)

Basically, the issue I'm having (and have been having) is that Ubuntu seems to want to die when running on my laptop.

Ubuntu ver: Maverick, currently. Although the problem has existed since my first attempt at installing Ubuntu on this system, which as I recall was back in Jaunty.

Specs: 
Alienware Area-51 m15X Skullcap, circa 2008.
Intel GM695 Chipset mobo manufactured by Quanta
Intel Core2Duo T9300 2.5GHz
2048MB Qimonda DDR2-333 (x2)
nVidia GeForce 8600M GT 256MB
The usual plethora of combo media readers, wireless/Ethernet adapters, an IR device, Bluetooth, USB2.0, integrated webcam, and speakers/mic/lights running on proprietary firmware boards, etc.

Symptoms:
- Computer will abruptly power off during installer's logo splash screen. Gotta love going from seeing logo and load bar to seeing black screen and hearing hard drive spin down due to sudden lack of power.
- Computer will abruptly power off just before the post-GRUB splash screen. (Assuming I have managed to install the damn thing after several attempts, and am now trying to actually USE it.)
If Ubuntu abruptly powers off, pressing the power button does not start up the system if AC is plugged in. Once you unplug AC it powers on normally. Why AC delays power on while plugged in is an unresolved issue.

The problem is persistent, and there are few 'solutions', all of which seem coincidental.

Note that if the system wants to crash suddenly like that, even recovery mode doesn't help.

For example: 
After several failed boots, disconnecting various combinations of peripherals up to and including AC power, battery, USB devices, Ethernet, and booting again will *sometimes* cause the system to boot correctly. Booting into Win7 and shutting down occasionally solves the problem as well.

Anyway, I haven't the slightest clue where to even start to try and decipher this, and I've been a bit too busy with college to sift through enough forums to find any leads. All the same, I hope someone with experience can at least shed some light on perhaps why this is happening. Software faults? Hardware? BIOS? Some incompatibility or complications from some combination of hardware? Just plain bad luck?

Additional system information or explanations/descriptions can be provided as required.

Thanks in advance, everyone.
~Zushakon

---

### Post by heron7 on 2010-10-28
Join the club of Alienware Nightmares my friend.. I had the DAMN thing six months & four of those where it laid back in his pretty box .. don't ask ..I feel you pain Trust me .
OK ,Have you run the daignostic on boot ,You know the recovery cd that came along with it .. there's a 32bit daignostic tool you run of boot ?.. Run the CUstom test & do it in the  Non interactive option .It'll take a while but you'll now if anything's wrong with any ,I mean any of All it's drivers ..
I have just installed Ubuntu on it yesterday because it kept hanging. & my diagnostics result came up with a Pass.. so the trouble was with the partitioning . It has'nt happened sinse :) but i still have to get round to installing the firmware which by the way you can get the latest from dell using their own DDmanager 'Driver Downloader '. & the firmware then needs to be burned on to cd & installed via boot .etc .. 
I would suggest you try Diagnostic  first ,though .. Good luck 
p.sYou can also get the latest Alienware Command Center etc via DDman the best way to go about it unless U'r a Wizard with machines such as the Alien  ...

---

