---
title: "UPS user recommendations wanted"
date: 2013-07-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Varsel on 2013-07-14
I had planned to buy APC SmartUPS C 1000VA, until I found a lot of Linux problems associated with it, for example:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1314797](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1314797)

I definitely do not want a UPS I must do a lot of messing with to make it work...especially command line stuff. So I'm now thinking of Sinewave CP1350PFCLCD. Anyone have opinion on it, or a better UPS recommendation? Need minimum 675watt to cover the build, according to couple power supply calculators.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-07-14
> **Varsel said:**
> So I'm now thinking of Sinewave CP1350PFCLCD. Anyone have opinion on it, or a better UPS recommendation? Need minimum 675watt to cover the build, according to couple power supply calculators.
I'm not very experienced with high end UPS, but APC is a good brand, that is a well known fact. Just choose a simpler one unless you need those advance communication functions.

One thing I can confidently suggest is that if everything else is good, don't make the "sine-wave" vs. "square-wave" thing an issue. In fact SMPS based devices like computers, laptop/printer/mobile adapters, in short all digital power supplies work better with square wave supply. It is only inductive load that works better with sine wave supply (like ac motors, fans, iron-core transformers etc.).

---

### Post by BreezyBrooke on 2013-07-14
Check out Tripp-Lite brand. They are masters of Electrical Equipment protection. They make tons of devices including UPS's.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-07-14
Square wave UPS's actually produce a stepped sine wave that looks like a wedding cake.  Some computer power supplies (cheap ones) will let noise through under this power condition and that can affect computer operation.  Sine wave UPS's will produce a smooth sine wave that replicates the wall power and reduce the chance of noise being injected into your protected devices.

I like APC UPS's, but only the metal case ones.  I've seen too many of the plastic cases melt after a power mishap.

*apcupsd* will give you all of the control that you need with an APC-brand UPS.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-07-15
> **tgalati4 said:**
> Square wave UPS's actually produce a [COLOR="#FF0000"]**stepped sine wave**[/COLOR] that looks like a wedding cake.
That's a wrong description. There is no such thing as "**stepped [COLOR="#FF0000"]sine[/COLOR] wave**".

I'm sure what you've read or meant was "stepped square wave" which is what the so called sine-wave inverting circuits actually produce. Since there is really no '**power efficient**' way to invert the DC power from battery into a pure sine wave like the one generated by generators or dynamos. And that gives way for the noise you mentioned.

On the other hand, the square wave ones don't have to care about forming a 'sine wave', hence they operate in full plus/full minus mode, supplying an 'almost' pure square wave on the output with equal height/depth pulses, which are easier for the SMPS to filter back into pure DC without the chance of any noise. It also results in less stress on the transformer in the UPS, resulting in less heat and more power efficiency.

There are even HF transformer based lightweight, more power efficient UPSes which are 'dedicated' for computers (not recommended for inductive load) which take advantage of square waves by directly using it in the HF transformers (the relatively tiny ferrite core ones), then just changing it back to 50/60 Hz using electronic circuits. No iron core transformers at all, thus they are much lighter (3-4 kg transformer is replaced by 2-3 hundred gm. HF one), and much more power efficient. They are often advertised as "Digital UPS".

Before posting this I did some search on the net and it turns out that there is really a lot of misconception regarding square vs sine wave. Most of those concerns on apparently 'authentic' sites are either with respect to general household equipment or are purely flawed.

The only thing that is of concern with square waves is the sharp spike that the PWM control produces (about 4 times the controlled value). But that is taken good care of in a quality inverting circuit. Even in a cheap one that point becomes moot as soon as the supply hits those 330 Mfd capacitors that are the first thing (after fuse/NTC) in a PC SMPS that receives the supply.

And this information comes out not only from theoretical study of these circuits, waves and their effects, but is also supported by a very good experience of more than 18 years (my brothers' occupation, hobby and passion) with all kind of inverting circuits that are commonly available in market, as well as some rare ones. 

However, perhaps due to all this sine-wave hype and probably marketing strategy, I rarely see someone highlighting the fact that their high end models are using square wave. If it is a (pseudo)sine wave, it'll be prominently highlighted, but if it is an square wave one, they'll just mention that it is 'dedicated' for computers and then will call it 'digital'.

---

### Post by 1clue on 2013-07-15
If you intend to use a smart UPS, then you're probably going to want your Linux box to automatically shut down right before the battery dies.

If you want to do that, you're going to have to do a certain amount of setup on your Linux box.  I've tried different software over the years, and basically I buy APC devices and I like the apcupsd setup best.

That said, it seems to change every time I buy a setup, since it's years between purchases.  So each time I read the HOWTO and each time I spend about 15 minutes.

---

### Post by 1clue on 2013-07-15
By the way, that not-perfect-sine-wave thing is just how digital power supplies work.  If you look at the output on an oscilloscope it doesn't really look much like a stepped anything; it looks like noise.  By the time your computer power supply filters it out it's something like a sine wave.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-07-15
All digital circuits (including SMPS) work on DC. They're happier when they get a supply that becomes pure DC or at least close to it after being filtered. :)

---

