---
title: "13.10 additional drivers not showing my card"
date: 2013-10-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by opus440 on 2013-10-17
Apparently nouveau is working since I see gears, however I would prefer to use the nvidia drivers for my laptop which has a GT 540M.  

When I go to the Addtional Drivers, it searches for a moment and then pops up "No additional drivers available."

I know I can run the 319 drivers because I did when I was running the last LTS (12.04?) of ubuntu (not lubuntu).

Do I need to manually install them or is there some other work around?

I should note that in Beta2 I couldn't get any 3D running and glxinfo couldn't find any 3D, even though I tried installing nvidia stuff several times.  My xorg.conf still lists "nvidia" as the driver in Device0. (Does lubuntu use xorg.conf or does it ignore it like ubuntu does?

Another thing (and this might go away if I get the drivers updated).  I use a larger screen at the office that I plug into.  The desktop, however only wants to use part of it.  I can resize windows, but they show up in the smaller resolution size when they launch.  Hilariously youtube doesn't play full screen properly and I only see the upper left hand corner of the video.  However, if I go to the monitor settings and just click "Apply," everything behaves as expected. ??????

Anyway, any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-10-18
Are you connected to the internet? Additional drivers searches online for those drivers. Those drivers are there. I have just run additional drivers tab and it offered a selection after a number of seconds wait.

Regards.

---

### Post by michael_k2 on 2013-10-19
I have the same issue. No Additional drivers available.
I have a Nvidia GTX 670 card.
It's like ubuntu cant recognize my card?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-10-19
> When I go to the Additional Drivers, it searches for a moment and then pops up "No additional drivers available."

That's correct. As you've discovered, if you install nvidia drivers directly, then it borks the intel drivers. Remove any nvidia driver you installed and then use bumblebee. [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-10-19
> **michael_k2 said:**
> I have the same issue. No Additional drivers available. I have a Nvidia GTX 670 card.

That's a different issue. For the OP, the nvidia driver should not show up. For a discrete card like yours, they should show up. Start your own thread...

---

### Post by opus440 on 2013-10-20
I thought bumblebee wasn't necessary anymore with the new drivers....grr...

What do you mean "discrete card?"  Is the GTX 670 not an optimus card?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-10-20
> **opus440 said:**
> I thought bumblebee wasn't necessary anymore with the new drivers....grr...
There are ways to use the nvidia card for everything, but that will drain the battery. Seamless/transparent switching between the two cards doesn't work, despite nvidia's claim that they added official support for Optimus. Bumblebee is still the best compromise.

> What do you mean "discrete card?"  Is the GTX 670 not an optimus card?
It's a regular PCI-E desktop card. Optimus is for laptops.

---

