---
title: "12.04: Ralink RT3090 driver issues: no WLAN connection"
date: 2012-08-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by chrisguitar on 2012-08-31
Hello everyone,

i have the following problem:

since my last ubuntu installation (12.04) on my laptop (Lenovo S205) i encountered very slow download-speed (around 64KBit maximum) through WLAN.

I searched for the reason for this and found out, that ubuntu seems to have some issues with Ralink wireless adapters.

I found a solution to this problem which sounded reasonable: use Ralinks own drivers:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/84959/how-do-i-get-a-ralink-rt3060-wireless-card-working](http://askubuntu.com/questions/84959/how-do-i-get-a-ralink-rt3060-wireless-card-working)

I followed the steps for 12.04 but i missed one important fact: they were for RT3060 not RT3090.


Now my WLAN doesn't work at all.

How can i undo those steps and is there a another way to fix the slow download speed?

lspci -v gives me this:
```
Network controller: Ralink corp. RT3090 Wireless 802.11n 1T/1R PCIe
    Subsystem: Lenovo Device f101
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 11
    Memory at d0100000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel modules: rt2800pci

```

Thank you very much!

---

### Post by chrisguitar on 2012-08-31
I managed to reset the drivers.

But the WLAN is still extremely slow.

Does anyone have a suggestion for this?

---

### Post by cortexiphan on 2012-11-09
Hi, have you successfully fixed this problem? My gf has the same problem (for months) and I'am not very pleased with google's search results.

thy

---

### Post by tasusu on 2012-12-13
Hi everyone. I faced the same problem here on my Lenovo G570, but I could fix it by the following in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1749179](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1749179).
> **frogpr said:**
> Had exactly the same problems, ralink 3090 almost unusable in 11.04. Have an HP ProBook 4520s with ralink 3090 wifi.
Solved it by blacklisting ALL rt drivers (i.e. rt2x00lib,rt2800pci,rt2x00usb,rt2x00pci,rt3390sta) EXCEPT rt2860sta.

You need to add these drivers at the end of /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf. 

The rt2860sta works flawlessly, fast and stable (not a single disconnect so far), suspend and resume work as well.

Cheers

---

