---
title: "11.10 won't start on asus t91"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Shurf on 2011-10-13
Hello.

About a month ago I've installed Ubuntu 11.04 on my netbook (asus t91). Today I have updated the system to 11.10 and after the reboot the netbook simply stopped booting, it hanged showing the "ubuntu" picture with dots under it. Did not even get to the login screen.

I've tried to reinstall the system using an image on a usb flash, but had the same symptoms while booting from flash. I've tried ubuntu and xubuntu.

My experience with linux is a bit limited.

Could anyone please give me an advice on what to do? I think I can reinstall 11.04 but I would really like to try 11.10 on my netbook if that is possible.

---

### Post by deltacomp on 2011-10-14
Hello, I know you are relatively new to Ubuntu, but I hope this link will provide you some help. 
 
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535")
 
Good Luck!

---

### Post by jao_madn on 2011-10-15
> **Shurf said:**
> Hello.

About a month ago I've installed Ubuntu 11.04 on my netbook (asus t91). Today I have updated the system to 11.10 and after the reboot the netbook simply stopped booting, it hanged showing the &quot;ubuntu&quot; picture with dots under it. Did not even get to the login screen.

I've tried to reinstall the system using an image on a usb flash, but had the same symptoms while booting from flash. I've tried ubuntu and xubuntu.

My experience with linux is a bit limited.

Could anyone please give me an advice on what to do? I think I can reinstall 11.04 but I would really like to try 11.10 on my netbook if that is possible.

  We had the same problem..Mine is a asus with nvidia card G210M this problem i encounter in maverick..a black screen when i used the nvidia driver and uninstalled it at it seems ok but no unity only gnome. Now im affraid this is the same problem in onieric..only black screen in normal boot but seems ok in recovery mode..my idea is the display system wont work on my system seems unity in maverick doesnt work for maybe the reason of the driver of my video card..  Im still in the blue right now finding the problem in the normal boot..i try to boot on the live cd and onieric works fine the display..im still confused with the problem..also in the upgrade the samba4 won't install for some error during installation..

---

### Post by sinoohe on 2011-10-23
I have the same problem! my netbook is Asus T91 with GMA500 graphic chip
when I boot with ubuntu 11.10 after a loading progress the screen will be blank!When I disable quite splash on the grub, Xorg doesn't load and just a terminal will be opened!!!

---

### Post by jao_madn on 2011-10-24
> **sinoohe said:**
> I have the same problem! my netbook is Asus T91 with GMA500 graphic chip
when I boot with ubuntu 11.10 after a loading progress the screen will be blank!When I disable quite splash on the grub, Xorg doesn't load and just a terminal will be opened!!!

If you can boot on the failsafe mode with graphics then my guess the problem would be nvidia driver has been enable..you can verify it by dis-abling the nvidia dirver in the additional driver in the failsafe mode login..

---

