---
title: "Debian Lenny and 1366x768 Screen Resolution?"
date: 2009-08-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by SendDerek on 2009-08-12
Hello All,

I'm posting this question on the Ubuntu forums because I seem to get better help here.

My question is, how on earth can I get 1366x768 screen resolution on Debian Lenny?  I've banged my head on it for the past few hours and I just can't seem to get it.  This is on a fresh install using CD1.  All of the latest updates have been applied.

After reading and reading online, these are the commands that I should be running in order to get the desired resolution, but they don't do a thing.

```
xrandr --newmode 1366x768 85.500 1366 1494 1624 1798 768 770 776 795 +hsync -vsync
```

```
xrandr --addmode default 1366x768
```

```
xrandr --output default --mode 1366x768 --rate 60
```

With that last command, I get this error message:
> xrandr: Configure crtc 0 failed


I decided to check out what's in the Xorg.0.log file:
```
grep 1366x768 /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```
> (II) VESA(0): Modeline "1366x768"x0.0   85.50  1366 1436 1579 1792  768 771 774 798 +hsync +vsync (47.7 kHz)

I then read about generating an xorg.conf file:
```
dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

I'm not sure how to configure it to use 1366x768, but this is what I tried (which also led nowhere):
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Modeline "1366x768-60.0" 85.86 1366 1440 1584 1800 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
EndSection


Is there anybody out there who can help me get this up and running?  I would really appreciate it.

---

### Post by triumph_ninja on 2009-09-21
I'm having the same trouble, fwiw... I feel your pain and am trying to figure out xranr. I barely had a grip on xorg.conf configuring - now this.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-09-21
One thing I'm thinking of here is if you have nVidia or ATi hardware. If you do, then you may need to download the appropiate driver from there and run the installer script which will create a better X configuration file for you.

So please give us some information about your video hardware.

---

