---
title: "Mini laptop display not working"
date: 2009-05-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lucasisdabomb on 2009-05-18
Hello,
I have a mini laptop (vye s18p) that came with ms xp installed.
after days of trying to get the netbook remix to boot from a usb drive i have just installed standard ubuntu with intent to change the desktop etc myself.
I have been very impressed that ubuntu recognized touchscreen and soundcard etc on start up but after the loading screen on boot, the lcd screen simply goes black. if an external monitor is attached all is fine. I cannot figure out how to make the oem screen display anything and in display settings the monitor is "unknown". If i open the terminal by crl alt f1 then i get display on both screens. I know ubuntu has the option to output to 640 x 480 but not to the touchscreen.
Any help would be greatly appreciated
Lucas

---

### Post by lucasisdabomb on 2009-05-18
i think my solution is somewhere in these files: [http://www.en.vyepc.pl/wsparcie-techniczne/download](http://www.en.vyepc.pl/wsparcie-techniczne/download) i have downloaded s18 linux graphics ones but dont understand how to apply them.
they are .patch .xorg_gx and ubuntu doesn't recognize them
im annoyed at using an external monitor
cheers
lucas

---

### Post by glowbuzzer on 2009-11-11
Hi,
I have an S18+ and would like to install Ubuntu on it - did youhave any luck getting it working without an external screen? Thanks.

Paul

---

### Post by neilthewheel on 2009-12-07
I also have a VYE S18 that has a blank screen. I can view the desktop with an aux screen connected. It appears to be a vye screen compatibility problem. 
Would like to get to the bottom of this problem.

---

### Post by neilthewheel on 2010-01-10
Am I posting this problem on the wrong forum??? I still can't see a screen.
HELP HELP Please

---

### Post by saywell on 2010-01-27
Hi,

I too have a Vye S18p, with blank screen, running Karmic netbook remix.

Has anyone come up with a fix yet?

William

---

### Post by AlexZaim on 2010-01-27
Has anyone tried lucid lynx alfa version to see if the problem is still there?

---

### Post by Mfodhu on 2010-08-04
I did - same problem, actually it doesn't generate any xorg.conf file (in /etc/X11/) - so I copied some I found on the net and tried it out - it failed, but then I chose to make it failsafe version and copied that as the permanent.

Basically create an xorg.conf file with the following text in /etc/X11/ and vye S18p will work - it's quite slow though...

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection


---

