---
title: "9.10 on HP tx2500 - wacom related issues + hotkeys"
date: 2009-12-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by plaurits on 2009-12-27
Hi,

I've just installed Ubuntu 9.10 on my HP tx2500 (tx2590eo) and it seems like most of the laptops features are working out of the box, however I do have a few issues that I hope someone might be able to help me with:

1. In 9.04 I could use the program wacomcpl-exec to calibrate the wacom, but now that program is nowhere to be found in the repositories.

2. Pressure sensitivity doesn't work in Photoshop under wine, and it used to work fine in 9.04. 

3. There are 8 hardware keys on the screen of the laptop, is it possible to remap these keys for something useful like: "alt-ctrl+z" (undo in Photoshop) ?

4. Is it possible to rotate the screen orientation, and if so, how?

I have tried to search the forums and google for answeres, but the results were more confusing than helpful.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-12-27
Hi plaurits,

> 1. In 9.04 I could use the program wacomcpl-exec to calibrate the wacom, but now that program is nowhere to be found in the repositories.
Re: wacomcpl it sounds like you don't have wacom-tools installed.  You can do that through Synaptic Package Manager and then reboot.
> 2. Pressure sensitivity doesn't work in Photoshop under wine, and it used to work fine in 9.04. 
Does touch work?  Have you used the modified wacom.fdi?  See gali98's Karmic [HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7093065&postcount=104").
```
3. There are 8 hardware keys on the screen of the laptop, is it possible to remap these keys for something useful like: "alt-ctrl+z" (undo in Photoshop) ?
```
Aren't there 4 bezel buttons?  Only 2/4 work.  To remap them see the HOW TO linked below.
> 4. Is it possible to rotate the screen orientation, and if so, how?
Screen rotation scripts including auto-magic rotation for your tablet pc at the [Rotation HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6274392&postcount=1").

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by plaurits on 2009-12-27
> **Favux said:**
> Hi plaurits,
it sounds like you don't have wacom-tools installed.  You can do that through Synaptic Package Manager and then reboot.

Oh, so it is a part of that package. I should have known. Thank you.

> **Favux said:**
> Does touch work?  Have you used the modified wacom.fdi?  See gali98's Karmic [HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7093065&postcount=104").


No I haven't modified anything (and touch doesn't work), I've been browsing through quite a few threads here but have been unsure of exactly what applied to my model and what would work and what not. It is very easy to get confused and overlook things in these forums. But thank you very much for the direct links, I will try them out immediately. 

> **Favux said:**
> 
Aren't there 4 bezel buttons?  Only 2/4 work.  To remap them see the HOW TO linked below.

No there are actually 8, but 4 of them are probably meant for controlling the DVD player under windows, they are labeled with stop, play, forward and back icons.

[IMG]http://img705.imageshack.us/img705/4835/keys.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-12-27
Hi plaurits,

By crikey you're right!  OK, realize when we're talking about the bezel buttons we're talking about the 4 blue LED ones.  Also in the Rotation HOW TO is a link to a couple of posts I made where I go into great detail about what we know about the two non-functioning bezel buttons.

---

### Post by plaurits on 2009-12-27
Beautiful! 

> **Favux said:**
> 
By crikey you're right!  OK, realize when we're talking about the bezel buttons we're talking about the 4 blue LED ones.

Ah, so perhaps these buttons are a new addition to the tx2500? In any case, they work fine, so I'm able to use 5 out of the 8 multimedia buttons - more than enough for my use.

I used xvkbd to map key combinations to the multimedia buttons through the "Keyboard Shortcuts" utility in Gnome, so for example the command for "Step backward" in Photoshop (alt+ctrl+z) looks like this:

```
xvkbd -xsendevent -text "\[Alt_L]\[Control]\[z]"
```

Following your guide I never really managed to change the key labels though, but that doesn't really matter because the defaults seems to be just fine: 

XF86AudioPrev
XF86AudioPlay
XF86AudioNext
XF86AudioStop
XF86AudioMedia

The screen rotaion and wacom pen works perfectly now. I can not thank all you people who collect and share all your findings with us less tech-savvy users enough. Absolutely fantastic, thank you! :)

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-12-27
Hi plaurits,

Outstanding!  That's some serious progress.  You are welcome.

Now that you mention it I do think other TX2500's mentioned they lost another bezel button in Jaunty or Karmic.

You might want to mine the "[Info and help for HP TX2500 Series]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=845911")" when you have further questions.  Just use the Search this Thread feature on the top right.

---

### Post by ekeko on 2010-12-05
hello all,
not sure if this the appropriate thread but so far  I haven't found other better one. I try my luck:

I have a HP Tx2650. I am able to rotate via scripts you all provide in this thread and another similar.
 
Now i wanna connect this script to the rotation button.

I mean this button: in the picture in msg #3 there are two buttons on the right below, one is for screen dimmer, the other one is for rotation in MS. is this one I wanna use.

xev shows no reaction when pressing this button.

do you have any idea?

thanks in advance!

Ekeko

---

### Post by Favux on 2010-12-05
Hi ekeko,

Welcome to Ubuntu forums!

I think the best you are going to be able to do is the Magick Rotation applet in the Rotation HOW TO linked above.

There is a discussion linked in Notes in the HOW TO about what we know about the bezel buttons.  I've gone backwards on my TX200 and now only 1/4 works.  The TX200 rotation button is the second one in on the bottom row.  The one to the right of it is the screen dimmer.

It would be nice if someone finally figured the bezel buttons out.

---

### Post by ekeko on 2010-12-05
hi Favux,

thanks.. I understand now the buttons are not recognized at all.

manual rotation is fine with me.

I just found out the remote control of the tx2650 the "Q" button is assigned to Ctrl+E and the DVD one to Ctrl+V, and i can configure them too using your howtos :)

Best Regards,

ekeko

---

### Post by Favux on 2010-12-05
Hi ekeko,

> I just found out the remote control of the tx2650 the "Q" button is assigned to Ctrl+E and the DVD one to Ctrl+V, and i can configure them too using your howtos 
Cool!

---

