---
title: "8.04 with No Sound, No Wireless  on Thinkpad T40"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dunkin519 on 2008-04-29
Hi, 

I am new to posting here, but I need some help.

I did a dist upgrade from 7.10 to 8.04 over the weekend and now I have 3 main hardware problems.

1) No Wireless. 
I have the Cisco Airo card 350, lspci shows the device but there are no entries in iwconfig, and the wifi led icon is off on the laptop.

/etc/network/interfaces has only 2 entries, both are for wifi
eth1, and wifi0 both have ssid entries underneath them.

when I try an "sudo ifup wifi0" i get a:
SET failed on device Wifi0: No such device.
...
SIOCSIFADDR: No such device.
wifi0: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device.
wifi0: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device.
Bind socket to interface: No such device.
Failed to bring up wifi0

dmsg shows no errors, and seems to find the card (Probing PCI)

Wifi fails to work even from the live cd.

2) No Sound. 
Any audio application complains about no GStreamer plugins and/or devices found.

No sound even from the live cd.

3) Strange Video.
The highlighted (or activated) window color is strangely black, so i am unable to read any titles, or lables in an active window . If I boot from the live cd it looks normal.

Everything worked fine with 7.10. (asside from WPA with the cisco card)

---

### Post by Blastomorpha on 2008-04-30
I'm using a T40 with a fresh installed 8.04 right now.
I had no problems about sounds, but had some with wifi.
Add the following lines at the end of your /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist file (thanks to Fred L):
```
# these aes modules break the airo driver
blacklist padlock_aes
blacklist geode_aes
```

---

### Post by ifland on 2008-05-05
> **Blastomorpha said:**
> I'm using a T40 with a fresh installed 8.04 right now.
I had no problems about sounds, but had some with wifi.
Add the following lines at the end of your /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist file (thanks to Fred L):
```
# these aes modules break the airo driver
blacklist padlock_aes
blacklist geode_aes
```

Wow...thanks! That worked for me on my R40 as well. (The lspci command was reporting my wireless card as
```

AIRONET Wireless Communications Cisco Aironet Wireless 802.11b

```After updating the blacklist file and a reboot, I'm back online. = )

---

### Post by dunkin519 on 2008-05-07
> **Blastomorpha said:**
> I'm using a T40 with a fresh installed 8.04 right now.
I had no problems about sounds, but had some with wifi.
Add the following lines at the end of your /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist file (thanks to Fred L):
```
# these aes modules break the airo driver
blacklist padlock_aes
blacklist geode_aes
```

Awesome, that worked great for me (i guess there is still no WPA support for the Airo driver)

Thats 1 down!

---

### Post by fx2k05 on 2008-06-27
i want to add those lines but it keeps saying i dont have permission ,

---

### Post by gavinjay on 2008-07-07
Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal

*sudo gedit /etc/apt/source.list*

---

