---
title: "9.04 Jaunty- OEM volume buttons don't work."
date: 2009-06-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nissandrift on 2009-06-10
I have installed 9.04 Jaunty on my Lenovo 3000n100 0768 4JU machine. The volume buttons, and FN+ (F1/F2/ESC) all worked until the other day when I was working on getting my monitor to work in the right resolution. When I press the buttons I get a pop up at the top which shows the black volume bar in the upper right corner, but that does not actually change my sound any even though that bar moves fine. I used Synaptic to update all my sound to pulse audio, and checked keyboard shortcuts. It seems as if they are labeled to one application for sound, and my computer is only going by the pulse audio. I followed this ( [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/sound-solutions-for-ubuntu-904-jaunty-users.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/sound-solutions-for-ubuntu-904-jaunty-users.html) ) step by step guide, but I am missing the lib32asound2-plugins. Other than that I went step by step. I can control my volume if I go into the pulseaudio volume control still, but I prefer to have all my options working if at all possible.

---

### Post by mgmiller on 2009-06-10
Go to System > Preferences > Sound.  By default, you will be on the Devices tab.

Look under "Default Mixer tracks"

Try leaving the Device as it is and just select one of the tracks items from the list below it by clicking to high lite it. 

I have Master selected and that makes the keyboard controls move the master volume control up and down.  I suspect, you have it set to move a different slider, so you see the black box and the slider moving in the upper right corner, but it's not controlling the right track.

---

### Post by cristianrosa on 2009-07-07
That solved the problem for me, thanks!

---

