---
title: "8.10 problem with webcam"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Max-B on 2008-11-01
Hi,
I have a Logitech Quickcam Messenger that works perfectly with Ubuntu 8.04.

Since I installed the new 8.10 the webcam doesn't work. Please notice that I have done a new installation, not an upgrade.

Here is the error message I got with luvcview 0.2.4

```
SDL information:
  Video driver: x11
  A window manager is available
Device information:
  Device path:  /dev/video0
Stream settings:
ERROR: Requested frame format MJPG is not available and no fallback format was found.
 Init v4L2 failed !! exit fatal
```

And here is the error with camorama

```
(camorama:6190): Gtk-WARNING **: GtkSpinButton: setting an adjustment with non-zero page size is deprecated
```


Does anybody knows how to solve the problem?
ciao,
Max

---

### Post by mkarnicki on 2008-11-01
I don't know how to solve that, but I have a similar problem. The uvc driver, for my build-in webcam in HP tx1320us, is broken for kernels 2.6.27-6+. I don't know if logitech uses uvc.

---

### Post by xWHEELSx on 2008-11-01
> **Max-B said:**
> Hi,
I have a Locitech Quickcam Messenger that works perfectly with Ubuntu 8.04.

Since I installed the new 8.10 the webcam doesn't work. Please notice that I have done a new installation, not an upgrade.

Here is the error message I got with luvcview 0.2.4

```
SDL information:
  Video driver: x11
  A window manager is available
Device information:
  Device path:  /dev/video0
Stream settings:
ERROR: Requested frame format MJPG is not available and no fallback format was found.
 Init v4L2 failed !! exit fatal
```

And here is the error with camorama

```
(camorama:6190): Gtk-WARNING **: GtkSpinButton: setting an adjustment with non-zero page size is deprecated
```


Does anybody knows how to solve the problem?
ciao,
Max

I have the same problem  in 8.4 ,i could use my Logiteck  and tv card now i can only use my T.V card, no Skype or cheese ect. PLEASE NEED HELP, THANKS:(

---

### Post by mr_raider on 2008-11-01
Well looks like I'm not alone. My Microsoft Lifecam vx-1000 was working fine with 8.04. Now it won't work in Intrepid with Cheese or X-Sane. Seems to be a widespread issue.

---

### Post by Max-B on 2008-11-02
The strange thing is that my webcam works perfecly with Ekiga and Cheese but not with Skype or camorama.
```
max-b@darkstar:~$ lsusb
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 046d:08da Logitech, Inc. QuickCam Messanger
```
Max

---

### Post by Z_o-s-o on 2008-11-02
Subscribing for future updates.

I've got a Logitech Quickcam Deluxe for notebooks and it doesnt play nice with 8.10, but worked fine in 8.04.

---

### Post by diggerhole on 2008-11-02
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/49739](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/49739)

this workaround sorted my cam on skype

---

### Post by leachyboy2001 on 2008-11-02
I've got a problem with M$ vx-1000 as well since upgrading to 8.10
Camera seems like its powered on all the time (green light is always lit).
lsusb:
```
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 045e:00f7 Microsoft Corp. LifeCam VX-1000.
```

---

### Post by mr_raider on 2008-11-03
> **leachyboy2001 said:**
> I've got a problem with M$ vx-1000 as well since upgrading to 8.10
Camera seems like its powered on all the time (green light is always lit).
lsusb:
```
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 045e:00f7 Microsoft Corp. LifeCam VX-1000.
```


Yeah same proble. Nothing works. CHeese, Ekiga, Skype, VLC, nothing. It just isn't configured by the OS. I assume it's a kernel problem. Hopefully it gets patched soon.

---

### Post by Magbed on 2008-11-04
I have an Aiptek Pencam SD that has stopped working after upgrading to 8.10, it was working flawless on 8.04.

---

### Post by csseurg6 on 2008-11-04
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/293176](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/293176) :)

---

### Post by Max-B on 2008-11-06
Hi,
if could be useful to others, I solved my problems with the webcam and skype with this work around:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=945803&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=945803&page=2)
ciao,
Max

---

### Post by jorgitow on 2008-11-08
I also have the problem with the LED always being on, but I'm jealous of the other people here who got their microsoft cameras working. I have a vx-3000 and I've never been able to get it working correctly. I figured this was true for pretty much all MS cameras.

---

### Post by curly752 on 2008-11-08
Can anyone explain a problem i have with my Philips SPC900NC webcam please. It has always worked flawlessly up until I upgraded to Ubuntu 8.10. 

**dmesg** indicates that the webcam is correctly recognised initially as Philips SPC900NC CCD webcam.

But **lsusb** shows it on /dev/video0 as 0471:0329 Philips ORITE CCD webcam(PC370R).

Am I correct in thinking PWC has screwed up?

Is there a workaround? Is PWC being looked at?

For info... aMSN and camorama find my cam ok.. but with a rather greenish hue. I can live with that ):P.

Cheese doesnt find it... just a brief webcam light blink then a solid green image.

Any help or suggestions would be gratefully received.


FOOTNOTE: I have studied various PWC files on saillard.org and am now TOTALLY CONFUSED.

The Philips SPC900NC is shown with a vendor ID of both 0471:0329 and 0471:0332.

The Philips Orite PC370R cam is also using the vendor ID of 0471:0329.

Somebody PLEASE tell me I am mistaken !!

---

### Post by InuY4sha on 2008-11-18
Same problem here
OS: Ubuntu 8.10
lsusb: Bus 004 Device 008: ID 041e:4053 Creative Technology, Ltd Live! Cam Video IM
lsmod significant data:
v4l1_compat            22404  1 videodev
video                  25104  0 
output                 11008  1 video
gspca_zc3xx            55936  0 
gspca_main             29312  1 gspca_zc3xx
videodev               41344  1 gspca_main
usbcore               149104  8 gspca_zc3xx,gspca_main,usbhid,usb_storage,libusual,ehci_hcd,uhci_hcd

Tested on: 
- skype: Green corrupted image in video test
- xsane: Preview corrupted image
- luvcview: ERROR: Requested frame format MJPG is not available and no fallback format was found.
- vlc: Doesn't show anything

Following workaround
```
~$ sudo echo -e "export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so" >> /etc/profile
```
solved for everything but luvcview

I'd like to use a decent driver for this webcam... it's my girlfriend gift.. so it's not like I can forget about it and buy a new one right? :lolflag:

Ciao 
RM

---

### Post by jesterthejedi on 2008-12-24
Working after 6 months of waiting and searching forums. My cam is the dreaded Microsoft VX-1000. 

Do this:
Download driver:
[http://linuxtv.org/hg/~jfrancois/gspca/](http://linuxtv.org/hg/~jfrancois/gspca/)
grab the .bz2 file
extract and change directory
in terminal type "make" no quotes take about 5 mins
then type "sudo make install"
reboot

tested working on Intrepid With Cheese, Ekiga, Skype, GyachE, Xawtv

COLORS are fine! no more green/blue Hardy mess.
not working in Camorama, Camstream, errors in gqcam

installed xawtv, luvcview, and removed camserv.

I am so happy that I should pinch myself. I bought this webcam in June for my birthday and it was always a pain in the butt to solve. Success at last!

---

### Post by fishtoprecords on 2008-12-25
I had the problem, and the fix mentioned upthread works great.
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/49739]("https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/49739")

Thanks to all

---

### Post by josemarciosa on 2008-12-29
> **jesterthejedi said:**
> Working after 6 months of waiting and searching forums. My cam is the dreaded Microsoft VX-1000. 

Do this:
Download driver:
[http://linuxtv.org/hg/~jfrancois/gspca/](http://linuxtv.org/hg/~jfrancois/gspca/)
grab the .bz2 file
extract and change directory
in terminal type "make" no quotes take about 5 mins
then type "sudo make install"
reboot

tested working on Intrepid With Cheese, Ekiga, Skype, GyachE, Xawtv

COLORS are fine! no more green/blue Hardy mess.
not working in Camorama, Camstream, errors in gqcam

installed xawtv, luvcview, and removed camserv.

I am so happy that I should pinch myself. I bought this webcam in June for my birthday and it was always a pain in the butt to solve. Success at last!

Microphone don't work :(:(:(

---

### Post by jesterthejedi on 2008-12-29
You need to make sure you pulseadio preferences are set correct. You may not be using the mic from the webcam unless your check out the volume controls. Most likely you just need to adjust what device its looking for

---

### Post by pstefanini on 2008-12-29
My Logitech shows video but will only record individual pictures, not a full stream.  This was not a problem in 8.04.  Cheese doesn't work.  I might try the fix mentioned above if my problem is the same.  Best regards.  Phil

---

### Post by zanox on 2009-05-12
Hi! I have the same problem, with 8.04 worked and 9.04 not. 

-desktop:~$ lsusb
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 0ac8:305b Z-Star Microelectronics Corp. ZC0305 WebCam
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 004: ID 15d9:0a33  
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 046d:c301 Logitech, Inc. iTouch Keyboard
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 0409:55aa NEC Corp. Hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

-desktop:~$ luvcview
luvcview 0.2.4

SDL information:
  Video driver: x11
  A window manager is available
Device information:
  Device path:  /dev/video0
Stream settings:
ERROR: Requested frame format MJPG is not available and no fallback format was found.
 Init v4L2 failed !! exit fatal

these are the error messages.. Ideas?

---

### Post by jesterthejedi on 2009-05-17
check the driver list to make sure that webcam is supported:

[http://mxhaard.free.fr/spca5xx.html](http://mxhaard.free.fr/spca5xx.html)

If it is, then search this forum for your specific webcam and see if there are install/troubleshooting tips.

---

### Post by freackout on 2009-06-22
> **Max-B said:**
> The strange thing is that my webcam works perfecly with Ekiga and Cheese but not with Skype or camorama.
```
max-b@darkstar:~$ lsusb
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 046d:08da Logitech, Inc. QuickCam Messanger
```
Max

mine is fine with guvcview 
lsusb
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 041e:405f Creative Technology, Ltd 
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 041e:405f Creative Technology, Ltd 
thats creative webcam vista......
but i am getting same 
Device information:
  Device path:  /dev/video0
Stream settings:
ERROR: Requested frame format MJPG is not available and no fallback format was found.
 Init v4L2 failed !! exit fatal
however i am trying to run two cameras and havent compiled the ov51x driver yet... as resolution is small 320x240 so alls not lost mint 7 plus alot of dependancies.. (well not really but i could not find them so installed all major developer tools but its working lovely up to now) 1 camera at a time working on two... maybe easier using 2 diff model cams to see difference hmmmm... i had major cpu problems with cheese.. currently at 20% more like it... not 199% cpu useage but possibly fixed in mint 7.. not 6 or other distros.. but cheese did work once nicely on old laptop out of box... but not nicely on me new one dual cpu hmmmm...tried all 386 /64 bit installs to no avail...advice try GUVCVIDEO its nice plus lots of settings. cheese checking mint 7 hmmm....

---

### Post by bcschmerker on 2009-07-29
I have a variation of this problem when streaming from my new Dynex 1.3MP camera.  CamServ and GStreamer run consistently; but Adobe Flash 10.1 and Mozilla Firefox 3.0.11, as a team, don't consistently call CamServ, as I have false output too often for comfort.  I've cleared Flash settings several times in tracing the problem.  My question at the moment is:  Whose bailiwick is the consistent failure to call CamServ?

---

