---
title: "8.10 sound problem acer aspire 6920"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nikkpap on 2008-11-04
Dear friends hello from greece i have one 6920 and i want to have my soundcard working on 8.10 all i did as well is to make it working with the oss but the resalt is to get on "max vol" the 20% of the sound power compering to vista sound (small db). and i cant use the mixer i get an error what to do i love ubuntu power and i want to leave the F@@@ing MicroSoft please help i am new on the linux so make it easy please ;)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=921637](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=921637)
thanks CJay554 but the sound it is not good....every thing else is good and with 8.10 you have out of the box the lan and wifi and bluetooth and hot keys all are working out of the box 
so the camera with cheese and the vga with nvidia drivers all easy 
 only the sound what to do its a lovely machine and i need help
sorry for my eng... nikkpap 
[email]nikkpap@live.com[/email]
[email]npaparidis@aktis-sa.gr[/email]
[email]nikkpap@hotmail.com[/email]
[email]nikkpaps@yahoo.com[/email]
[email]nikkpaps@aim.com[/email]
[email]nikkpap@gmail.com[/email]
please help

---

### Post by jkristheking on 2008-11-24
[FONT="Comic Sans MS"][B]oh my yes someone please help us with this problem im using oss drivers right now and they suck.
1.low vol
2.crackling
3.no mic
4.can't use rhythembox at all
please help us i really need to get ALSA working on my acer aspire 6920

email me at [email]jkristheking@gmail.com[/email] if you have a fix please.[/B][/FONT]

---

### Post by thinkliberty on 2008-11-25
> **jkristheking said:**
> [FONT="Comic Sans MS"][B]oh my yes someone please help us with this problem im using oss drivers right now and they suck.
1.low vol
2.crackling
3.no mic
4.can't use rhythembox at all
please help us i really need to get ALSA working on my acer aspire 6920

email me at [email]jkristheking@gmail.com[/email] if you have a fix please.[/B][/FONT]


I switched to mandriva until ubuntu updates alsa, sound works out of the box with alsa.

---

### Post by jkristheking on 2008-11-26
> **thinkliberty said:**
> I switched to mandriva until ubuntu updates alsa, sound works out of the box with alsa.


how about linux mint?

---

### Post by thinkliberty on 2008-11-26
> **jkristheking said:**
> how about linux mint?

no it uses the same shitty old version of alsa

---

### Post by jkristheking on 2008-11-26
> **thinkliberty said:**
> no it uses the same shitty old version of alsa

wait so ubuntu distros use the old version of alsa? thats dumb

so hows mandrive? because i really only like ubuntu unless there's some way to update the alsa drivers or whatever you wanna call them :confused:

---

### Post by binbash on 2008-12-04
please read the solution here (all thread) : 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=984081](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=984081)

If it fixes your sound problem let me know

---

### Post by CJay554 on 2008-12-12
Updated my thread to include a new way to fix the problem using the ALSA 1.0.18a driver (newest up to date driver so far). come try it out:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=921637&highlight=acer+6920+sound&page=3#26](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=921637&highlight=acer+6920+sound&page=3#26)

post any problems u may have there as i am keeping all issues concerning this sound problem in one thread.

there some known problems so far with using the ALSA driver, check my full guide at the start of the threat for those issues.

---

