---
title: "V9.10 with HP 2133 - No Sound - No Mic"
date: 2009-11-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by geraldpeterrobinson on 2009-11-15
I am new to ubuntu V9.10 and new to Linux. To be honest I am a total Linux beginner.

Just installed ubuntu V9.10 on my HP 2133 (1.6ghz cpu, 500GB HD, 1280x768 res screen, 2GB RAM). I upgraded the hard drive and installed ubuntu to give it a serious go.

I have a problem with sound output, but this was resolved when I restarted, but later .... it was not resolved. Sound output can be described as temperamental.

Recording sound is a problem. I have no sound input from the built in microphones. On sound recorder - sound preferences I don't have mic level control for the microphones, its greyed out.

Not sure where to go from here.

Gerald

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2009-11-15
Quite often, the microphones are muted by default.  On the top panel there's a little speaker, right-click on it and select Sound Preferences.  Have a look at the Input tab to see if the microphones are not selected, or muted, or set to a low level.

---

### Post by geraldpeterrobinson on 2009-11-16
gordintoronto, thanks for your reply. The Sound Preferences > Input tab is greyed out, the greyed out mic level is at minimum and the Mute tick box is unticked. The Choose a device section is blank. I have also noticed that its when I go into Sound Preferences that the sound output stops working. Sometimes it takes a couple of system reboots before sound returns.

---

### Post by woelf on 2009-12-08
Same probleem , does nobody have a solution ?
after update to the new kernel there is a input device VT1708/A [Azalia HDAC] (VIA High Definition Audio Controller) Analog Stereo
But it disappear  after try to use it .

---

### Post by Mesqueeb on 2010-04-14
I still have no sound or mic on my hp2133...

Only sounds from Ubuntu, like the loggin sound, work, but songs or youtube don't. Also when I go to sound properties, the hardware list is empty...

Anyone knows a cure?
Thanks! ^^

-Mesqueeb

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-04-14
Try working through these threads first and let me know how it goes:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems/KarmicCaveats]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems/KarmicCaveats")
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578")

---

### Post by Mesqueeb on 2010-04-16
This solved my problem!!! Thank you soo much! Finally I have sound again! Muhahaha!!!! >xD

-Mesqueeb

---

### Post by Mesqueeb on 2010-04-27
However! My sound won't work after returning from suspend mode! I have to reboot in order it to work!

Anyone else has this problem or a solution?
Thanks!

-Mesqueeb

---

