---
title: "BCM 4328 on tx2000"
date: 2008-07-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rusty spork on 2008-07-24
No matter what I do I cannot seem to get this working for my Broadcom 4328 in hardy heron.  I have followed a few different guides and there is always some command or another that will not work.

I would like to have wireless working today, I am going to be gone for the next week, but if I have to I can still use my vista partition.

If there is anyone that is willing to help let me know.  I am using this how to guide (I am concentrating on the wireless for now, but I did get the sound working last night):

[http://mirosol.kapsi.fi/tx2020/tx2000howto.htm](http://mirosol.kapsi.fi/tx2020/tx2000howto.htm)

---

### Post by sergiom99 on 2008-07-24
I got mine working following this howto:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=575750](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=575750)

hope it works.

---

### Post by PinkFloyd102489 on 2008-07-24
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty_No-Fluff#head-bc33832c0547766a33c3a84f13f971ca757b2851](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty_No-Fluff#head-bc33832c0547766a33c3a84f13f971ca757b2851)

Use that and MAKE SURE you do step 2d and none of the other 2s. Just 2d.

---

### Post by rusty spork on 2008-07-24
I got through everything without any problems, except for this (not quite sure what I should do):

joe@Joe-tablet:~$ sudo ndiswrapper -m
WARNING: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper line 4: ignoring bad line starting with 'ndiswrapper'
module configuration already contains alias directive

module configuration contains directive install ndiswrapper modprobe -r b43 b44 b43legacy ssb; modprobe --ignore-install
;you should delete that at /usr/sbin/ndiswrapper-1.9 line 868, <MODPROBE> line 76.


I am going to restart now and hope my wireless works.

---

### Post by rusty spork on 2008-07-24
Nope, its not working.  The wireless network should just show up shouldn't it?  I don't see anyway to search for wireless networks.  I think it should work similar to the wired connection, connecting when it is detected (plugged in).  It might be a result of the problem I had in the previous post.

---

### Post by rusty spork on 2008-07-24
> **PinkFloyd102489 said:**
> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty_No-Fluff#head-bc33832c0547766a33c3a84f13f971ca757b2851](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty_No-Fluff#head-bc33832c0547766a33c3a84f13f971ca757b2851)

Use that and MAKE SURE you do step 2d and none of the other 2s. Just 2d.
I have tried that one, I ran into a problem after a few steps with the terminal not wanting to do something, I will try it again and post if I have the problem again.

---

### Post by rusty spork on 2008-07-24
> **rusty spork said:**
> I have tried that one, I ran into a problem after a few steps with the terminal not wanting to do something, I will try it again and post if I have the problem again.
joe@Joe-tablet:~$ wget [http://myspamb8.googlepages.com/R151517-pruned.zip](http://myspamb8.googlepages.com/R151517-pruned.zip)
--15:03:34--  [http://myspamb8.googlepages.com/R151517-pruned.zip](http://myspamb8.googlepages.com/R151517-pruned.zip)
           => `R151517-pruned.zip.2'
Resolving myspamb8.googlepages.com... 209.85.173.118
Connecting to myspamb8.googlepages.com|209.85.173.118|:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 730,544 (713K) [application/octet-stream]

100%[====================================>] 730,544       52.40K/s    ETA 00:00

15:03:49 (51.30 KB/s) - `R151517-pruned.zip.2' saved [730544/730544]

joe@Joe-tablet:~$ unzip R151517-pruned.zip
Archive:  R151517-pruned.zip
replace bcm43xx.cat? [y]es, [n]o, [A]ll, [N]one, [r]ename: y
  inflating: bcm43xx.cat             
replace bcm43xx64.cat? [y]es, [n]o, [A]ll, [N]one, [r]ename: y
  inflating: bcm43xx64.cat           
replace bcmwl5.inf? [y]es, [n]o, [A]ll, [N]one, [r]ename: y
  inflating: bcmwl5.inf              
replace bcmwl5.sys? [y]es, [n]o, [A]ll, [N]one, [r]ename: y
  inflating: bcmwl5.sys              
replace bcmwl564.sys? [y]es, [n]o, [A]ll, [N]one, [r]ename: y
  inflating: bcmwl564.sys            
joe@Joe-tablet:~$ sudo ndiswrapper -i bcmwl5.inf
[sudo] password for joe: 
driver bcmwl5 is already installed
joe@Joe-tablet:~$ ndiswrapper -l
WARNING: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper line 4: ignoring bad line starting with 'ndiswrapper'
bcmwl5 : driver installed
	device (14E4:4328) present
joe@Joe-tablet:~$ sudo depmod -a
joe@Joe-tablet:~$ sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
WARNING: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper line 4: ignoring bad line starting with 'ndiswrapper'
WARNING: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper line 4: ignoring bad line starting with 'ndiswrapper'
WARNING: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper line 4: ignoring bad line starting with 'ndiswrapper'
WARNING: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper line 4: ignoring bad line starting with 'ndiswrapper'
WARNING: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper line 4: ignoring bad line starting with 'ndiswrapper'
Usage: modprobe [-v] [-V] [-C config-file] [-n] [-i] [-q] [-Q] [-b] [-o <modname>] [ --dump-modversions ] <modname> [parameters...]
modprobe -r [-n] [-i] [-v] <modulename> ...
modprobe -l -t <dirname> [ -a <modulename> ...]
FATAL: Error running install command for ndiswrapper
joe@Joe-tablet:~$ 


This is what happened before, I havent gone any farther then the step shown here.  I think this is related to the problem I had in the other one...

---

### Post by rusty spork on 2008-07-24
I found the file that is said to have the bad line, but I don't know what to do with it so here it is:

alias wlan0 ndiswrapper
#Hardy ssb/ndiswrapper workaround, added Wed Jul 23 23:59:58 CDT 2008 
install ndiswrapper modprobe -r b43 b44 b43legacy ssb; modprobe --ignore-install
ndiswrapper $CMDLINE_OPTS; modprobe ssb; modprobe b44;

it says the last line is the bad one.

---

### Post by tackfurlo on 2008-07-24
AFAIK the only line out of those 4 lines that should be in that file is the first one.  Try removing the last 3 lines manually (using nano, gedit, etc - you'll have to use sudo to be root to edit it) then rebooting and see if it works, maybe without the error.

I have Hardy and use NDISWrapper too but my card is a USB card (internal wifi is blown out but both the USB and internal Wifi are broadcom chips) and all mine has is an alias line like the first line you have (though mine has 8 alias lines - one for every USB port I've ever used it with.)

---

### Post by rusty spork on 2008-07-24
> **tackfurlo said:**
> AFAIK the only line out of those 4 lines that should be in that file is the first one.  Try removing the last 3 lines manually (using nano, gedit, etc - you'll have to use sudo to be root to edit it) then rebooting and see if it works, maybe without the error.

I have Hardy and use NDISWrapper too but my card is a USB card (internal wifi is blown out but both the USB and internal Wifi are broadcom chips) and all mine has is an alias line like the first line you have (though mine has 8 alias lines - one for every USB port I've ever used it with.)
Thanks Takfurlo, deleting those lines worked and I now have my wireless up and running.  I plan on getting the touch screen working, but that will probably have to wait for another day.

---

### Post by tackfurlo on 2008-07-24
Glad to know my suggestion worked :)

As for enabling the tablet functionality, I don't know what specific lines you'll need to add, but the file you want to look at is /etc/X11/xorg.conf and there should be a few lines in there - most likely commented out - about a "wacom" tablet.  The Wacom tablet driver is used for all tablet functions in linux weather the tablet itself is made by Wacom or not, though some tablet systems are supported and some aren't.

Be careful in the xorg config though and don't change anything unless you'er sure.  That file is the configuration for the Xorg window manager, and if you mess it up too badly you will get to spend many hours banging your head on a terminal.  I have an HP DV9000 and once I tried to install and configure TwinView and now I cannot get the Xorg back to it's previous state, so I cannot get Compiz to work.  It took me 7 hours just to get it back to running at 1440x900 resolution in 32 bit color, and I've been running Desktop Linux since I was 12, 9 years ago.

---

### Post by hbayar_morph on 2008-07-28
touch screen working?

---

### Post by gali98 on 2008-08-04
see here to get stylus/touch working..... :)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5469447#post5469447](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5469447#post5469447)
cheers,
Kory

---

