---
title: "limited resolution options with Dual Screen setup"
date: 2009-05-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by arch1k on 2009-05-16
Hello,

I've upgraded to Jaunty as soon as it came out. In Intrepid Ibex I was able to simply plug in an external monitor with 1280x1024 to my laptop with 1280x800 and had a the displays mirrored with the external monitor being at full resolution and the laptop also at its full resolution and the rest simply cropped out. This was convenient, since i used the attached screen as primary and when I was on the go the laptop desktop size shrunk to its normal 1280x800 resolution.
After upgrading, no matter what i connect to my laptop its always sets both screens to 1024x768.
I should mention also that I hadn't had a chance to try this on my aforementioned monitor that I used before. However, the new monitor that i'm using is also 1280x1024, BenQ FP731, which I would love to use in a similar setup.

my xorg.conf - which looks rather empty in comparison to Intrepid:
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

Any help is greatly appreciated.
Thanks for your time!

---

### Post by arch1k on 2009-05-16
C'mon any one at all!?

---

### Post by Dotsona on 2009-05-16
I have had similar issues with 9.04, I have made several posts on the subject, but it seems no one wants to respond, my problem is a little different, for whatever reason desktop effects wont turn on, and when I use the SKIP_CHECKS = YES I get some weird issue where it renders the 2nd screen oddly. I have tried the fixes in other threads with no luck. 

Question, can you enable compiz? Was curious if that worked

[http://img191.imageshack.us/img191/8664/screenshot.png](http://img191.imageshack.us/img191/8664/screenshot.png)

---

### Post by arch1k on 2009-05-16
Dotsona

Actually, when at first I connected the second monitor and tried to fiddle with the "gnome-display-properties" settings i lost my compiz-fusion completely. 
The only way that I could get desktop composition working was through replacing the current xorg.conf with the one that was created during upgrade to Jaunty. (i.e. the contents are posted above).
Obviously, doing that brought me nowhere in terms of the resolution issue.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by arch1k on 2009-05-16
pretty cool effect though.

---

### Post by UrbenLegend on 2009-05-16
What's your videocard? ATI, Nvidia, or Intel?

---

### Post by Dotsona on 2009-05-16
I am using an ATI 9550

---

### Post by UrbenLegend on 2009-05-17
Sorry Dotsona, I've had no experience with ATI cards. However, it could be a Xinerama issue as it looks like its not setting the second screen properly. You should also create a separate thread for your compiz problem, as it isn't quite related to this topic.

@arch1k: I am looking at your xorg.conf and I don't think its using your video drivers at all! There's no Driver option in your Device Section. You should add ```
Driver "nvidia"
``` or ```
Driver "fglrx"
```depending on whether you have an nvidia or ati card. Note: I get the same dual screen problem with my nvidia drivers disabled and the default "nv" driver enabled. One panel displays at full res, the other lower res panel displays the same screen but only part of it. My hunch is that during the upgrade, your xorg.conf was overridden with the default xorg.conf and the video drivers weren't updated, therefore not giving the driver configuration scripts the chance to reupdate your xorg.conf. You can either try adding those Driver lines I just mentioned or you can simply reinstall the drivers (new ones probably came out anyways).

After loading the driver, use the ATI or nvidia control panels to setup dual screens as usual.

Here's my xorg.conf for reference:

```
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        Modeline        "1280x800"  83.46  1280 1344 1480 1680  800 801 804 828  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        Option          "TwinView" "1"
        Option          "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
        Option          "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0, DFP: 1680x1050 +0+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +1440+0, DFP: 1440x900 +0+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0, DFP: 1280x800 +0+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +1024+0, DFP: 1024x768 +0+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +800+0, DFP: 800x600 +0+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +640+0, DFP: 640x480 +0+0; CRT: NULL, DFP: 1680x1050 +0+0; CRT: NULL, DFP: 1440x900 +0+0; CRT: NULL, DFP: 1280x800 +0+0; CRT: NULL, DFP: 1024x768 +0+0; CRT: NULL, DFP: 800x600 +0+0; CRT: NULL, DFP: 640x480 +0+0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Option          "UseEdidDpi" "false"
        Option          "DPI" "96 x 96"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
        Option  "DontZap"       "True"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by arch1k on 2009-05-17
UrbenLegend,
thank you for this exhaustive reply.
I have an Intel on-board 945 GM card.
Would you know what lines of code those require to function in Jaunty? Also, i have a feeling that there was a change in the way xorg.conf is used now and the way it was used in previous versions of Ubunutu(but I couldn't find any documentation on that).

---

### Post by UrbenLegend on 2009-05-17
Try adding```
Driver "intel"
```in your device section.

I don't think Ubuntu has changed its way of dealing with xorg.conf since the previous version. They have always relied on automatic detection of video hardware and a minimal xorg.conf that is kept only for advanced usage.

---

