---
title: "...on an HP Mini 1030NR"
date: 2009-08-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rmp5s on 2009-08-20
Hello everyone!  I have an HP Mini that has XP Home on it right now.  I had been thinking about putting linux on it for quite a while and seeing the Netbook Remix was the nail in the coffin.  I downloaded the .img, put it on a thumb drive and took it for a spin.  It worked GREAT!  I was very impressed!  Very clean, ran very well, all systems go.  I have a few questions though:

There were a few things about it that were a bit odd...like going to sites like youtube or pandora.  Streaming video/audio in general didn't seem to work.  I installed some addons and it looked like they were GOING to work, but nothing happened.  When I first went to the sites, I'd get a "plugin needed" message.  After installing them and restarting the browser, I'd get a HUGE play button where the media should be.  After clicking it, the page would appear to start loading but nothing would happen on Pandora and youtube had a picture and audio but the video wasn't playing.  Is this a settings issue?...my hardware?...something a full install would remedy?...something else?

Also, I'm interested in dual booting this with Windows 7.  The hard drive on this model is a 16gig SSD.  Can I partition that and would it be big enough to support both OSs?  And, when installing, would I put Win 7 on over XP (I want to start from COMPLETE scratch...everything important is on an external HDD already) and then install Ubuntu or would I do Ubuntu first?

Any help greatly appreciated!

Thanks!

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-08-20
16Gb is not enough for Windows 7 and Ubuntu, sorry!

heck 16GB is barely enough for XP...

Ubuntu is fine on about 10GB any less and things get really tight

But all will fit on that size drive, unfortunatly you couldn't save anything

---

### Post by Katalog on 2009-08-20
Welcome  to the forums!

I don't imagine that the image you're running from Live USB is going to be very fast, nor is it going to include flash or any proprietary codecs for streaming video. By default, Ubuntu comes with only free software installed, the rest of the stuff like MP3 support, Flash, Java, etc. you have to install yourself afterward. 
As far as dual booting goes, I would think the thing to do would be to install Win 7 first, and then install Ubuntu from the live USB afterward. During the partiitioning phase of the Ubuntu install, UNR *should* give you the option of repartitioning the drive for you and installing alongside Windows so you can choose which one you want to boot at startup. 

You can find more info on dual booting (and a lot more) in the Ubuntu wiki. Here's a link to an article specifically about dual booting Windows and Ubuntu:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot)

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Katalog on 2009-08-20
> **LowSky said:**
> 16Gb is not enough for Windows 7 and Ubuntu, sorry!

heck 16GB is barely enough for XP...

Ubuntu is fine on about 10GB any less and things get really tight

But all will fit on that size drive, unfortunatly you couldn't save anything

Um, I was dual booting XP and UNR on an 8GB SSD on my old HP Mini 1010NR (have an Eee PC 1000HA with 160GB HDD now), so I'm not quite sure that's entirely true. I did indeed have to keep the majority of my data on SD cards, but it worked as I was able to get XP to only occupy 2.5GB on the SSD, and UNR only required 4GB of space. And as far as I know, you can get Win 7 to install on an 8GB partition (there are instructions on how to do this if you google it). But yeah, it will be pretty tight, that's true enough.

---

### Post by malbaugh on 2009-08-20
I have a hp 1030nr with 160GB hard drive and tried 9.04 remix and have no sound. I have tried all the posting help ideas and still NO SOUND! When are they going to fix this problem? Oh! yes I tried 9.04 i386 and still NO SOUND!
Have I wasted my money and time on this unit?

---

### Post by rmp5s on 2009-08-20
No sound?  Really?  Everything worked perfect on mine (aside from the streaming media issue).  I did notice the volume control was a bit janky but it worked.  85% of the slider didn't do anything, but it worked...lol

As far as dual booting goes, it's kind of a non-issue.  I wouldn't be completely opposed to just saying bye to windows all together if I could get the NBR up and running 100% (streaming media issue) but I'm not sure.  I'm pretty sure there's no way to play World of Warcraft on linux.  (And, for the record, no I'm not one of "those guys"...I'm a Marine stationed away from my wife and it's fun to run around on there with her...lol)

Are there any other distros that I should try out on here?

---

### Post by vinnywright on 2009-08-20
mite as well try this.

[http://www.liliputing.com/2009/02/how-to-run-hp-mi-edition-from-a-usb-flash-drive.html](http://www.liliputing.com/2009/02/how-to-run-hp-mi-edition-from-a-usb-flash-drive.html)

:)

VINNY

---

### Post by rmp5s on 2009-08-21
Very interesting, Vinny.  However, it says there are things that don't work like possibly wireless and audio?  That's a major no-go.  It doesn't say anything about that in reference to this PC though...it seemed like that was referring only to getting the HP distro onto other PCs...think those issues would be present on this PC?

---

### Post by Katalog on 2009-08-21
> **malbaugh said:**
> I have a hp 1030nr with 160GB hard drive and tried 9.04 remix and have no sound. I have tried all the posting help ideas and still NO SOUND! When are they going to fix this problem? Oh! yes I tried 9.04 i386 and still NO SOUND!
Have I wasted my money and time on this unit?


This is a known bug on some models of the Mini (it even says so on the UNR hardware support page), but there is a workaround. I had to use it when I had mine, and it worked fine, you just have to go into volume control and make sure that everything is not muted afterward. The only gotcha is you have to use a few tricks to help prevent the next update that might wreck all the work you did.

I used the solution posted here on Launchpad:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/318942/comments/63](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/318942/comments/63)

And then I ran the following commands to keep future updates from possibly undoing the fix:

```
echo alsa-base hold | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo alsa-oss hold | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo alsa-utils hold | sudo dpkg --set-selections
```Kind of a pain, but it got all the audio working, with the exception of the microphone.

---

### Post by malbaugh on 2009-08-22
I have tried all the ways to get sound and NO success!  I guess it's the kernel that is the problem. What distro should I use in it's place?

---

### Post by Katalog on 2009-08-22
I'm kind of at a loss as to why none of those fixes work for you seeing as how all Minis share the same audio chipset (as far as I know). One thing I can tell you is that audio worked out of the box on Intrepid. Not sure how it got regressed in Jaunty, but it did. It's kind of a shame that the Mini hasn't gotten enough attention ala the Eee PC and Aspire One to inspire a community to make a Mini-specific distro. I knew a guy who was working on a version of Puppy just for the Mini, but I think he abandoned the project at some point. And if you truly believe it's the kernel, I'm not sure what distro to point you toward that might work better. Perhaps you could give Mint a shot.

---

### Post by malbaugh on 2009-08-24
Well I reinstalled 9.04 remix and only have audio from the headset only, still no audio from the speakers. Did the config and setup of alsa 1.0.19 and that's what I have. Is there any place that describes what is going on with these Mini and the sound cards?

---

### Post by Katalog on 2009-08-25
> **malbaugh said:**
> Well I reinstalled 9.04 remix and only have audio from the headset only, still no audio from the speakers. Did the config and setup of alsa 1.0.19 and that's what I have. Is there any place that describes what is going on with these Mini and the sound cards?

Not sure if they ever came up with a definitive resolution (quit following it when I sold my Mini), but that workaround I linked you to came from an entire bug thread on that very issue if you want to look it over:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/318942](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/318942)

---

