---
title: "14.1 System76 Lemur Ultra"
date: 2012-07-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Maien on 2012-07-25
[Note: I posted this thread in the system76 support section. I think this was a mistake, and this is the proper place to post it.]

Hi, I'm going to buy a 14.1 Lemur Ultra, but I have some questions.

First, my work is all about coding and solving numerical equations and scanning over millions of points. Of course I don't plan to do all the heavy tasks on my laptop, but I need a powerful one, that won't stop responding while scanning due to memory or whatever, and won't heat too much. 

So I made the following configurations, and I hope someone will give me an opinion about it. (Also, I want to try windows 8 when it's released, so I have a question at the end about it)

Configuration:
Ubuntu 12.04 LTS 64 bit
14.1" 720p High Definition LED Backlit Display ( 1366 x 768 )
Intel HD Graphics 4000
3rd Generation Intel Core i7-3610QM Processor ( 2.30GHz 6MB L3 Cache - 4 Cores plus Hyperthreading )
16 GB Dual Channel DDR3 SDRAM at 1600MHz - 2 X 8 GB 
512 GB Crucial M4 Series SATA III 6 Gb/s Solid State Disk Drive
8X DVD±R/RW/4X +DL Super-Multi Drive
Intel Centrino Advanced-N 6235 - 802.11A/B/G/N Wireless LAN + Bluetooth Combo Module 
Lemur Ultra (lemu4) Extra Li-ION Battery - 6 Cells 48.84 WH 
Extra AC Adapter - 90 Watt - For Intel Core i7 CPU's 


However, I'm worried about two things, 1. Battery life. 2. Heat. Should I expect these configurations will affect the battery life greatly, if I used the laptop for heavy duties? And should I expect heating issues? (I couldn't find reviews about heat issues in this laptop)

Finally, when I decide to install and dual boot win8 with the preloaded ubuntu. Is this a similar procedure to installing and dual booting ubuntu with windows, which I did many times? Please note I'm not planning to use virtual machines.

That's all, and thanks for your help.

---

