---
title: "xserver wont reconfigure on intrepid"
date: 2008-12-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kajillin on 2008-12-15
okay, just installed intrepid and everything works fine exept when i try to configure my ati driver it skips a bunch of steps with

```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

al i get to configure is my keyboard, is this a common problem in intrepid or is my install messed up cuz i really dont feel like configuring it by hand

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2008-12-15
If you boot into recovery from the grub menu you can run xfix.

---

### Post by kajillin on 2008-12-15
that just gives me a default xorg.conf, which doesnt work with my system because it doesnt set the refresh rate. And even if it did i still wouldnt be able to configure it because dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg is skipping all the steps i need. Thanks for the response though.

---

### Post by sysadmn62 on 2008-12-15
Did you try this:
 xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

---

### Post by kajillin on 2008-12-15
try what? if you mean with the -phigh command... that will do the same thing that xfix does, and then i have a broken system again.

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2008-12-16
> that just gives me a default xorg.conf, which doesnt work with my system because it doesnt set the refresh rate. And even if it did i still wouldnt be able to configure it because dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg is skipping all the steps i need. Thanks for the response though.


So X works, just not with the desired refresh rate?

It looks like xorg under 8.10 tries to auto detect almost everything. If you can get X to work at all go to:

System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution 

And see if allows to set your needed refresh rate from there.

If you had everything working the way that liked under 8.04, perhaps you could reinstall 8.04, backup your /etc/X11/xorg.conf to a usb drive then try that xorg.conf on 8.10. I think that there is a better than 50/50 chance that it would just work.

---

