---
title: "Acer 6930"
date: 2009-11-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ashwindatye on 2009-11-30
I want to make this a home thread for all Acer 6930 + ubuntu issues.

I currently use Acer 6930 laptop with 9.04 and it works well except sometimes the the desktop panels crash if i play with them too much. But no major issues.

Currently I am faced with a problem that in 9.10 (live CD mode) my DSL connection does not work and thus i am afraid to upgrade to 9.10.

I got the following answers (none seemed fully satisfactory)
(1) upgrade the kernel to 2.6.32
(2) The problem is with my modem with ipv6 incompatibility
(3) modify pppoeconf files (I dont want to play with config)

Please let me know if someone has managed to get it all properly working without hacks? (all includes wired network, audio, bluetooth, wireless, video etc)

Thank you.

---

### Post by francois.marot on 2009-12-01
I didn't have any problems related to DSL. But I'm in France with the "Free" provider.
One issue (with 9.10 Karmic 64) though was the internal mic not working. I had to  upgrade to ALSA 1.0.21 as I described there: [http://www.linlap.com/wiki/acer+aspire+6930](http://www.linlap.com/wiki/acer+aspire+6930)

---

### Post by megamania on 2009-12-01
> **ashwindatye said:**
> Currently I am faced with a problem that in 9.10 (live CD mode) my DSL connection does not work and thus i am afraid to upgrade to 9.10.

I have a 6930g, and internet works with 9.10.

I switched from Network Manager to Wicd since alpha testing, and that solved the (wireless) internet problem for me.

Maybe now even Network Manager would work on my laptop, but I haven't tried as Wicd does its job pretty well.

---

### Post by ashwindatye on 2009-12-02
Its really sad that Network manager does not work out-of-the-box. I might try installing 9.10 in a separate partition and retain 9.04. 
But, if i cannot connect to internet in the first place, how will I download WICD ? :-)... Its a chicken and egg thing. Once i am in 9.10, it would be like being stranded on an island.

Bye the way, any idea how to check if my modem is ipv6 compatible as some bloggers suggest that the issue is with my modem ?

---

### Post by ashwindatye on 2009-12-02
> **francois.marot said:**
> I didn't have any problems related to DSL. But I'm in France with the "Free" provider.
One issue (with 9.10 Karmic 64) though was the internal mic not working. I had to  upgrade to ALSA 1.0.21 as I described there: [http://www.linlap.com/wiki/acer+aspire+6930](http://www.linlap.com/wiki/acer+aspire+6930)

Once i figure out how to make the DSL work, I will try this as well.

---

### Post by megamania on 2009-12-02
> **ashwindatye said:**
> Its really sad that Network manager does not work out-of-the-box. I might try installing 9.10 in a separate partition and retain 9.04. 

Network Manager *wasn't* working for me on Alpha and Beta. Maybe it's working now.

Also, I'm afraid we may have a different problem, as I only had problems with wireless internet, while wired internet worked even with Network Manager. That allowed me to fix it relatively easily.

If you have a friend who has a router, you could check if your computer works at his place and try to fix it.

---

### Post by ashwindatye on 2009-12-03
Finally I got it working using sudo pppoeconf. :-)

---

### Post by ashwindatye on 2009-12-03
I got the internal mic working as well.
1. i upgraded to alsa 1.0.21.
2 Did the following: on the command line, run alsamixer, select only capture peripherals with &#8220;tab&#8221; key and:
- set mic boost at max, &#8220;capture&#8221; to about 2/3 , &#8220;capture 1&#8221; to 0, as Input Source select &#8220;int mic&#8221;. Then exit with escape 

and voila, the mic should work :)

---

### Post by omair on 2010-01-25
Internal mike works on 9.10, just install kmix, enable all channels and set  'input source' to Int Mic :)

---

### Post by somanyrobots on 2010-04-16
Followed ashwind's instructions (running 10.04 beta2), and got my microphone working BUT it is very, very noisy (essentially unusable).  Anyone have suggestions?

EDIT: Just realized I only implied detail, didn't state.  I have a 6930G, and my microphone didn't work with previous releases either (didn't bother to try hard until now).

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-04-18
> **somanyrobots said:**
> Followed ashwind's instructions (running 10.04 beta2), and got my microphone working BUT it is very, very noisy (essentially unusable).  Anyone have suggestions?

EDIT: Just realized I only implied detail, didn't state.  I have a 6930G, and my microphone didn't work with previous releases either (didn't bother to try hard until now).

Can you post the output of these terminal commands for me:
```
uname -a
aplay -l
cat /proc/asound/version
head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*
```
Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
Please post text output using code tags.

---

### Post by stephen_b on 2010-04-18
can you pls help with installing the wicd? I have 9.10 on BCM 4311 and wireless does not work even though driver is properly installed.

---

### Post by ashwindatye on 2010-05-19
10.04 Lucid Lynx on Acer 6930. My impressions after 2 weeks

1. Everything in hardware worked out of the box: Speakers, mic, wired network (ethernet), Network manager applet, Wireless, camera etc etc... the usual suspects.

2. Startup time slashed in a big way. down to around 40 secs now. perhaps lesser. Shutdown is just 10 secs now I guess.

3. Hibernate works but is as time consuming as a shutdown/restart. I was wondering if anyone found a way to make hibernate faster.

4. Desktop Panels: better than 9.10, but still needs to be polished to reach win 7 level of smoothness.

5. Java support: this one bit me. Took me some time to get Sun JRE.

6. UI is slicker and better overall.

over all I give 10.04 a 2 thumbs up. I still miss GChat video.

---

