---
title: "Intel GMA950 - cant play Urban Terror"
date: 2009-06-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by masterpingvin on 2009-06-01
Hello

I have an Acer Aspire 5710z with Intel GMA 950 Video Card.
After installing Jaunty i have Very low fsp in dekstop, in glxgears 17-14 fps, and in Urban Terror only 4, 3-fps.

So then, I modify the xorg.conf and set this:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver "intel"
    Option "AccelMethod" "UXA"
    VideoRam 130560
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection


Now In desktop i have 70-359-fps with glxgear, and 15-35-fps in Urban Terror.

But! If i go to a server wich is useing a big map, like ut4_swim, i have extremly low fps in the main pool area: 10fps. Then starting to lag, and i cant enjoy this great game.
Intel GMA is better then this performance, i used xp before and i had 50-80-fps in other maps, and 30-50-fps in ut4_swim.

But i never want to use windows, so i need to fix the video performance, so plz help!

Masterpingvin

---

### Post by Steelmourne on 2009-06-01
Linux isn't XP thankfully. Try to find Intel drivers. Is the video memory set correctly? I always make a point of buying laptops with dedicated nvidia graphics. Even a 9300M would provide better performance than Intel.

---

