---
title: "9.10 + Aspire One + Touchscreen = Graphical Performance Drop"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by __knk__ on 2009-11-02
Hi all, I just switched laptop & netbook from debian stable to Karmic Koala as there were a few packages I needed newer versions of.  Anyway...

I've installed an egalax touchscreen on my aspire one,  thus requiring me to have an xorg.conf to put it's configuration in...all well and good.  So I have installed touchkit, got the seperate driver for Xorg 1.6 and copied that though to /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input.  Added the necessary details to xorg.conf, compiled the kernel module etc.  Touchscreen works.  

Now when using an xorg.conf with just the touch config, serverlayout, display etc.(bare minimal for ts) my glxgears scores drop from ~1100 to ~650.  I've got no info in there for the gpu so I don't see why this is making a difference?. 

Some more notes:
- Had xorg generate a standard xorg.conf.  Same problem, graphical performance drops
- Tried changing accelmethod to XAA/EXA with no luck.  


Could someone please help me? the performance is brilliant without an xorg.conf, but then i have no touchscreen support.

---

### Post by __knk__ on 2009-11-02
so after some mucking around I found that I should configure the touchscreen with an fdi file via Hal.  Using this method however, the TouchKit app doesn't recognise the panel and thus I can't calibrate.

reinstalling ubuntu at the moment, screwed my apt cache with my old custom kernel and just wanted to start from scratch.  I'll build a new one later.  Anyway ill try ts_calibrate w/ manual input to the fdi and report back....

---

### Post by __knk__ on 2009-11-03
although i feel like i'm talking to myself i guess ill put this up.

I've isolated the calibration problem to the egalax_drv.so/egalax driver.  When modifying the fdi for the TS to use the egalax driver i get the same issue.  Xorg performance suffers,  I'm having calibration issues with the evtouch drivers though...seems axes are inverted and the calibration program isn't even writing to the fdi file, had to do it manually.

---

### Post by __knk__ on 2009-11-03
issue fixed, do the following if anyone is actually listening.

blacklist the usbtouchscreen module.
edit /usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/50-eGal.... and change the driver to egalax.

go to the eeti site, not the touchkit site.  Touchkit site's driver are outdated by about a year which is where i initially went wrong.  

Use the installer that comes with the package.  Compile the kernel module.  If you get an error on semaphore edit tkusb.h(i think) and change asm/semaphore to linux/semaphore(i think, this is off the top of my head).

Compile, insert module, run egalax calibration and enjoy.

---

