---
title: "intel 965Q with hardy"
date: 2008-08-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by gidonmiller on 2008-08-27
hi,
I'm running hardy on a dell optiplex 745 with an intel 965Q graphics card.
I have a philips 220EW screen with a 1680x1050 resolution. I can't get this to work. 
I'm either able to get the correct resolution but the performance is so slow thats its practically unusable. this I do by using a generic "empty" xorg.conf generated by running
 sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
this doesn't ask me anything about my display config and leaves it all generic in xorg.conf. as I understand this is because everything is supposed to be detected dynamically. it isn't. I built the latest xf86-video-intel before doing this. it didn't help.

the other option is the following xorg.conf file. it uses vesa and the display looks horrible but at least the speed is ok:

 Section "Device"
        Identifier  "Card0"
        Driver      "vesa"
        VendorName  "Intel Corporation"
        BoardName   "82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
        BusID       "PCI:00:02:0"
        Option "Monitor-VGA" "Dell"
 EndSection
 
 Section "Monitor"
      Identifier    "Philips"
      Option        "DPMS"
      HorizSync    30-93
      VertRefresh    56-85
      DisplaySize    433 271
 #    Modeline    "1680x1050" 146 1680 1784 1960 2240 1050 1053 1059 1089
      Modeline "1680x1050@60.00"  147.14  1680 1784 1968 2256  1050 1051 1054 1087  -HSync +Vsync
 EndSection
 
 Section "Screen"
         Identifier      "Default Screen"
         Monitor         "Philips"
         Device          "Card0"
 EndSection


I'm quite clueless about all the xorg stuff so any help will be most appreciated.
thanks,
Gidon.

---

### Post by gidonmiller on 2008-08-27
well,
I reinstalled hardy from scratch and everything works fine. my previous system was an upgrade from 7.10 so I guess thats why I had those problems.

---

### Post by susundberg on 2009-02-18
I had bit of same problem. Problem was that when i used driver "intel" with my digital external monitor, starting X failed with something like this:

```
(II) intel(0): I2C bus "SDVOCTRL_E for SDVOC" initialized.
(II) intel(0): I2C device "SDVOCTRL_E for SDVOC:SDVO Controller C" registered at address 0x72.
(II) intel(0): No SDVO device found on SDVOC
(II) intel(0): I2C device "SDVOCTRL_E for SDVOC:SDVO Controller C" removed.
(II) intel(0): I2C bus "SDVOCTRL_E for SDVOC" removed.
(II) intel(0): Output VGA disconnected
(II) intel(0): EDID for output VGA
(II) intel(0): Output VGA disconnected
(EE) intel(0): No valid modes.

```

I got the whole thing working by doing:
1. I updated my kernel (as i understand, this is not needed, but anyway i needed to update for my tv-card drivers)
2. Updated xf86 intel driver (to: xf86-video-intel-2.6.0 )
3. Updated libdrm (needed for driver update)

Driver from: [http://intellinuxgraphics.org/download.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/download.html)

Still after this i got display working with 'intel' driver ok, 
but mesa did not show opengl. Adding myself to group video helped to that problem. 

Using 8.10 and intel Q963.

```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82Q963/Q965 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation 82Q963/Q965 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)

```

---

