---
title: "UP(arrow key) screenshot???"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by other guy on 2008-04-26
2.6.24-16-generic #1 SMP Thu Apr 10 13:23:42 UTC 2008 i686 GNU/Linux

I would like to start off. I have tried to many profiles for the keyboard I use. Which is a common Logitech Cordless Desktop Pro. Every Kernel I used has worked really really good - (actually) great with it. It has been a good HiD for me.


Now..

Every time I hit the Up arrow key. It wants to give me a screenshot. Yes it is nice I can take them and all, but that is what the PrntScrn is for. Not the up arrow key. I rather like my up arrow key. :D


If you have any input or workarounds. I will glady give as much as I can back. Yeeesh, No up key sucks for me. 

:-({|=

BTW, I been on Hardy for a bit now and been trying to correct this. Right now all my keys work under the 105 generic, besides here cap issue. The Logitech profiles{all} give the same issue.

---

### Post by other guy on 2008-04-26
Bumper


I changed out the keyboard. To a MX 3200 and still have the same issue.

---

### Post by simonodell on 2008-12-10
Hi, I am having the same issue my up key is triggering the screenshot window.

I have tried different keyboards and have changed the keyboard layout but nothing seems to have any effect.

Does anyone know how to fix this? do I need to recompile a specific package?

Help would be appreciated before am forced to reinstall... (I need my upkey!)

Thanks

Simon Odell

---

### Post by other guy on 2008-12-10
I did end up fixing the issue. I forget what I did exactly.

Maybe I can help with something. Have you tried changing the keyboard shortcuts?

---

### Post by javierrivera on 2008-12-10
I had a similar issue with a remote computer (acessed by nx). I solved it by changing the keyboard model to "Evdev-Managed".

Hope that it helps.

---

### Post by Flimm on 2008-12-10
Try changing the keyboard model:
System, Preferences, Keyboard, Layouts.

---

### Post by simonodell on 2008-12-11
Changing keyboard physically : didn't help
Changing Layout Setting : didn't help
Changing Model Setting : didn't help
Changing Language : didn't help

This problem appears to be lower level than the UI settings.

also, my 'at' key gives me the character 'q'

Bizarre.

Does anyone know where in the system the code pertaining to the keyboard actually is and/or how to recompile/reinstall it?

---

### Post by simonodell on 2008-12-13
Ok the up arrow screenshot prob seems to have inexplicably fixed itself, but as if that wasn't bizarre enough...

 my 'at' key now gives me the character : &#937; 

muh???

:confused:

---

### Post by zielgruppe on 2009-01-28
Same problem here, use the following command to fix it: 

```
gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard
```

---

### Post by VirtualEntity on 2009-02-08
Seems to happen when trying access VMWare Server 2.0 VMs running Linux from an Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex host (64-bit).

It appears that the keyboard gets remapped and the up-arrow 'becomes' the Print (PrtScr) key.  Using the Keyboard Shortcuts (System | Preferences | Keyboard Shortcuts) will allow you to disable this annoyance by changing the accelerator key from "Print" to  something else, such as Ctrl+Print.  Unfortunately, this does not resolve the initial problem of the mis-mapped keyboard, so, as a result, the "up-arrow" key still does not work as it should (it does nothing).

At least this gets rid of the unwanted screenshots.  It doesn't fix the keyboard mismapping, though.

---

### Post by jakob.g on 2009-02-11
just solved this on my machine. my old xorg.conf (which was autogenerated by the nvidia tool) had InputDevice sections for a standard mouse and keyboard. since that's now managed by hal and evdev i removed those sections - everything's fine now.

---

### Post by tlois on 2009-02-13
How can this be fixed?  Tried a few of the suggestions to no avail.  Have only recently persuaded my husband to switch to Ubuntu, and this is happening on his machine- not mine! Grrr. Any more ideas appreciated (I will blame it on the keyboard, not U)

btw, I am no expert, so don't know how to edit xorg.conf- can follow terminal instructions and most others. 

Thanks!

Edit to say- just changed the print screen keystrokes to something else (he wouldn't use that anyway, so it doesn't matter.)  up arrow now works normally.  Whew.  But do not understand why that all of a sudden happened, as he has not had that problem in the few weeks he has been using Ubuntu.

---

### Post by cdcooper on 2010-08-13
This has been bugging me for a while.  Your fix
>  gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard
... has just made working from home a lot more productive and a lot less painful.

Thanks very much

---

### Post by bemymonkey on 2011-09-29
Hmmm, that command doesn't seem to do anything here. Any other ideas? :(

---

