---
title: "10.04 UNR 'nomodeset' option causes netbook-launcher to crawl"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Amitola85 on 2010-05-02
In order to get the brightness function keys working on my laptop (Toshiba T135-S1305) I set the options in Grub for "nomodeset acpi_backlight=vendor"

This allows the brightness function keys to work, however the "netbook-launcher" process becomes incredibly unresponsive; all other functionality seems to be unaffected.  When I remove the 'nomodeset' option (leaving acpi_backlight=vendor) the responsiveness is back to normal, but the brightness function keys don't work.  

Any ideas on why this might be the case, and if there's any workaround?  Is there a way to get a brightness applet in the menu bar (like is possible in the non-UNR release) so I can at least control the brightness from there?

(I'm really enjoying 10.04)

---

### Post by Amitola85 on 2010-05-11
I found an acceptable workaround.  I switched the interface to the 2D Launcher which responds quickly.  Unfortunately, this reverts to having a top and bottom bar like the normal Ubuntu interface.  I fixed this by removing the menu from the top panel, changing the top panel to auto-hide and not expand (right-click on panel and select "Properties").  I then set the bottom bar to auto-hide as well.  This gives me all my available screen space, but still allows easy access to the menu.

To select the 2D Launcher go to System -> Login Screen.  Unlock the options by clicking "Unlock" and entering your password.  Then Select "Ubuntu Netbook Edition 2D ..." as the default session.  Then either restart or logout and log back in.

To me this is an acceptable workaround.  Apparently the default netbook-launcher requires 3D graphics rendering and if 'nomodeset' is in the kernel options it doesn't work properly (in my case at least).

---

### Post by Amitola85 on 2010-06-03
The latest update to the netbook-launcher application solves the problem.  Installed version: 1:2.1.18-0ubuntu2 works as expected.

---

