---
title: "10.10 - does the annoying USB mouse bug still exist (locks up)"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by youbuntu on 2010-10-10
Hi chaps! What a wonderful iteration of Ubuntu - it appears to be marvellous!

One thing which REALLY bugs me (pun unavoidable, and rather apt... <----- oh look, another pun!) was the USB mouse bug in 10.04, where my USB mice (yeah, it happens on ALL my mice) randomly decide that they'll stop responding to clicks, but the cursor still moves :-S

Has this issue been resolved yet, in Maverick? Isn't this a new kernel?

Thanks :)

---

### Post by youbuntu on 2010-10-10
So, with ALL these Ubuntu users, NOONE else has this issue?

Nonsense!

BUMP!!!!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by mj_thug4life on 2010-10-11
I didn't face any problem in 10.04 with my wireless a4tech mouse/keyboard.

but i am unfortunately facing it now with 10.10. 
and there are a few work-arounds on here. but none of them worked for me.

---

### Post by youbuntu on 2010-10-11
> **mj_thug4life said:**
> I didn't face any problem in 10.04 with my wireless a4tech mouse/keyboard.

but i am unfortunately facing it now with 10.10. 
and there are a few work-arounds on here. but none of them worked for me.

I was actually referring to _wired_ USB mice, but thank you.

---

### Post by stonhaus on 2010-10-12
I never had this particular issue with 9.10 or 10.04, but I am getting this constantly with 10.10. The only thing that resolves the issue is unplugging and plugging back in.

---

### Post by vauxje on 2010-10-13
> **stonhaus said:**
> I never had this particular issue with 9.10 or 10.04, but I am getting this constantly with 10.10. The only thing that resolves the issue is unplugging and plugging back in.

I am experiencing this exact behavior as well.

---

### Post by youbuntu on 2010-10-13
I *still* have the issue. This is absolutely ludicrous! Do they even test peripherals on Ubuntu? I mean SERIOUSLY, this is one big, fat joke of a problem!

Sort it, Canonical - this is a farce.

---

### Post by colin.p on 2010-10-14
and here I always thought it was just me. I am using lucid 64 on a laptop and I find that every once and awhile, my usb mouse would do the same thing. Since I obviously also have the trackpad, I just use that until my mouse smartens up. So it seems that the usb mouse issue is a fairly common problem, that still exhibits itself in maverick.
However, I only really notice it when I am using FF (maybe a flash issue?) and since I have several things plugged into my usb ports at the same time, I figured I was just overtaxing the usb circuit. Maybe not?

---

### Post by vauxje on 2010-10-17
It happened most frequently w/video (of any kind: Flash, VLC, etc.). I turned on the 'Video Playback' option in CompizConfig Settings Manager and it hasn't happened since (been about a day). It's nothing conclusive, and I may have just jinxed myself, but so far it's looking good.

---

### Post by Garandir on 2010-10-17
Oh, look. My thread with a similar issue:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1599259](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1599259)

---

### Post by vauxje on 2010-10-17
Nix that - it's reproducible by using the volume controls on my keyboard.

Edit: I'm using the Microsoft Digital Media Keyboard 3000 and the Microsoft Wheel Mouse Optical 1.1A

---

### Post by vauxje on 2010-10-17
> **Garandir said:**
> Oh, look. My thread with a similar issue:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1599259](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1599259)

Your issue is not my issue.

---

### Post by vauxje on 2010-10-18
Here's the bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/+bug/636311](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/+bug/636311)

Post 49 has a link to a package that corrects it for me.

---

### Post by lavezarez on 2010-10-22
Hi,

Upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 just today and had mouse problems, the pointer going down the screen without moving the mouse.
Got to the link that *vauxje* mentioned [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/+bug/636311") and a possible PPA solution [here]("https://edge.launchpad.net/%7Eraof/+archive/aubergine").

Will observe a few days if this cures the bug.

---

### Post by Aknist on 2010-10-26
I am having this same issue with my USB mouse. It works to login and open a web browser or something and then it just stops clicking. I can move the cursor but it wont click.   I have to unplug it and plug it back in a few times to get it to work again. I just installed Ubuntu for the first time today and so far I have a terrible impression and will probably just remove it. At least W7 is useable even with all of it's annoying bugs and crashes. -_-

---

### Post by Zhukov on 2010-11-13
Install these packages:

[https://edge.launchpad.net/~raof/+archive/aubergine](https://edge.launchpad.net/~raof/+archive/aubergine)

---

