---
title: "T42 + Radeon 7500 + 10.10 = agony"
date: 2010-11-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Cullin1989 on 2010-11-17
Hey guys,

I'm new to the forum and this is actually my first post here.

I got myself a nice IBM T42 with 32mb Radeon 7500 graphics this year and just hated the fact that XP Prof was on there. Switched to Win7, because i got a license from my school and that's all nice, but it's just plain slooooow. After some time I'm now back to Ubuntu, since I love that distro on my main machine. 

Here's the problem: Occasionally I like to play some 3D games on this thing. On Win7 I got this to work with an old XP driver and the FPS are somewhat decent (for example in Guild Wars, UT99 and Warcraft 3).

On Ubuntu somehow I can't get satisfying results. Even Armagetron from the Software Center is awfully slow.

I know this has been discussed a lot but none of the results i found are working for me. And it just can't be that the card is performing so bad compared to a resource-hungry system like Win7.

I tried already doing everything as suggested by this post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1530512&highlight=radeon+7500&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1530512&highlight=radeon+7500&page=2)

I turned off the effects under "Appearance" giving me a little better results, but it's still pretty slow + my cairo dock looks weird.

Direct rendering is on. 

When I tried running my UT installation on the Win partition with wine, all I got was this: [ATTACH]175814[/ATTACH]

Any suggestions here? what information do you need in addition?

Meanwhile I will try - as pointed out by a lot of people - 9.10 and see if there's any improvement.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-11-17
> **Cullin1989 said:**
> H 32mb Radeon 7500 graphics this year and just hated the fact that XP Prof was on there. 

 
Not a really great card to begin with. turning off effect (as oyu already saw) and maybe even the dock would/might help perforamnce.
> 
And it just can't be that the card is performing so bad compared to a resource-hungry system like Win7.

 
yes it can, because unlike in Win7 or XP the card doesn't have propper proprietary drivers, but uses the opensource ones. ATI dropped support for this card long ago. ATI Opensoruce drivers are still developing and are more hit or miss it seems.
 
the only option here might be to try and get a newer version of opensource drivers by adding their PPA. however they might proove even more unstable in your case.
 
 
another thing - you are comparing games that run through a sort of emulation as opposed to games that run under native enviroment.  especially directx based games have issues. WINE simply will never run these programmes or games as fast as windows can and also not all games run well under wine. only a few do. wine is not a windows substitution and answer to all. it provides a some libraries and APIs to windows environment which enables some programmes to run. but all this is at the expence of processor power, ram and other resources.
 
also it is still under development.

---

### Post by Cullin1989 on 2010-11-21
Ok. Here's what I did now.

I found out that somehow my xorg.conf wasn't being used o.O

Now that it is, I got Armagetron to run charmingly fast.

For a moment I thought that was a good sign and tried something else that was running natively: Doom3. Yes I know it's little heavy weight for my machine, but I had nothing else native to try out.

...it did not work. (2fps)

As for other games... well they still don't work the way I want them to, but I guess I will just have to live with that. The open source drivers simply aren't that fast on my particular chip.

By by gaming world I guess... and hello Ubuntu as my main OS.

---

