---
title: "20.04: USB Turntable - What do I need to set to..."
date: 2020-05-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jw-middleton on 2020-05-27
I've plugged in a USB turntable and **dmesg** shows that it was configured and ready to use. What else do I need to do to get it to come out of my speakers and to work with Audacity?

John

---

### Post by jw-middleton on 2020-05-27
I believe that this info from dmesg shows that it is working:

 [51728.616591] usb 3-1: new full-speed USB device number 2 using xhci_hcd
 [51728.767487] usb 3-1: New USB device found, idVendor=08bb, idProduct=2900, bcdDevice= 1.00
 [51728.767490] usb 3-1: New USB device strings: Mfr=1, Product=2, SerialNumber=0
 [51728.767492] usb 3-1: Product: USB Audio CODEC  
 [51728.767494] usb 3-1: Manufacturer: Burr-Brown from TI               
 [51728.772217] input: Burr-Brown from TI USB Audio CODEC  as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/usb3/3-1/3-1:1.3/0003:08BB:2900.0005/input/input31
 [51728.829107] hid-generic 0003:08BB:2900.0005: input,hidraw4: USB HID v1.00 Device [Burr-Brown from TI USB Audio CODEC ] on usb-0000:00:14.0-1/input3
 [51728.984953] mc: Linux media interface: v0.10
 [51729.022948] usbcore: registered new interface driver snd-usb-audio
  
I was able to make it work on my Win10 box, but I want to use it on this Ubuntu system.  Here is the dmesg info showing what happened when I started Audacity. 

[51787.386709] audit: type=1400 audit(1590582959.600:6002): apparmor="DENIED" operation="open" profile="snap.audacity.audacity" name="/dev/snd/controlC0" pid=13831 comm="audacity" requested_mask="r" denied_mask="r" fsuid=1000 ouid=0
[51787.386713] audit: type=1400 audit(1590582959.600:6003): apparmor="DENIED" operation="open" profile="snap.audacity.audacity" name="/dev/snd/controlC1" pid=13831 comm="audacity" requested_mask="r" denied_mask="r" fsuid=1000 ouid=0
[52390.540013] usb 3-1: USB disconnect, device number 2
[52391.543455] usb 3-1: timeout: still 3 active urbs on EP #2

I know this isn't the Audacity forum and I don't expect  you to get it to work, but if I can get the music to come out of my speakers, then I should be close to having Audacity working.

John

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-27
Just select the source in Audacity. It should be some generic USB audio device for the cheap ones and maybe a brand name will be in the name for the more expensives ones but in any there will be some reference to USB audio.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2020-05-27
Looks to me like you installed audacity as a snap. Check whether there are any "Plugs" on audacity unconnected with 'snap connections --all'. Then you can try to connect them using 'snap connect audacity:plugname :slotname'. Or you can remove the snap and use the .deb from the repositories ('sudo apt install audacity') which might be slightly older but doesn't come with the constraints under which snaps must work.

Holger

---

### Post by jw-middleton on 2020-05-27
> **CelticWarrior said:**
> Just select the source in Audacity. It  should be some generic USB audio device for the cheap ones and maybe a  brand name will be in the name for the more expensives ones but in any  there will be some reference to USB audio.

That was the first thing I looked at. It only has ***default***, no options. Same goes for output.

John

---

### Post by jw-middleton on 2020-05-27
> **Holger_Gehrke said:**
> Looks to me like you installed audacity as a snap. Check whether there are any "Plugs" on audacity unconnected with 'snap connections --all'. Then you can try to connect them using 'snap connect audacity:plugname :slotname'. Or you can remove the snap and use the .deb from the repositories ('sudo apt install audacity') which might be slightly older but doesn't come with the constraints under which snaps must work.

Holger

Yep, it was installed as snap. I used Ubuntu Software app to do the install. Here is what I found, but can't tell if anything is unconnected.

john@john-OptiPlex-7010:~$ snap connections --all | grep audacity
[FONT=courier new]audio-playback            audacity:audio-playback                   :audio-playback                   -
audio-record              audacity:audio-record                     -                                 -
content[gtk-2-engines]    audacity:gtk-2-engines                    gtk2-common-themes:gtk-2-engines  -
content[gtk-2-themes]     audacity:gtk-2-themes                     gtk-common-themes:gtk-2-themes    -
content[icon-themes]      audacity:icon-themes                      gtk-common-themes:icon-themes     -
content[sound-themes]     audacity:sound-themes                     gtk-common-themes:sound-themes    -
desktop                   audacity:desktop                          :desktop                          -
desktop-legacy            audacity:desktop-legacy                   :desktop-legacy                   -
home                      audacity:home                             :home                             -
pulseaudio                audacity:pulseaudio                       :pulseaudio                       -
removable-media           audacity:removable-media                  -                                 -
unity7                    audacity:unity7                           :unity7                           -
wayland                   audacity:wayland                          :wayland                          -
x11                       audacity:x11                              :x11   [/FONT]

I am amazed that remember grep from a Unix class in the late 80's. 

Can you spot anything?

John

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-27
Please use code tags to preserve format when posting. Easy to do with Go Advanced then click "#" and paste inside.

Yes, grep is still used as are so many other Unix commands. :P

Now, regarding Audacity, if you want to keep the snap, check its permissions. The GUI way is how you installed. Snaps show an additional "Permissions" button after the installation  finishes. You can search for it again and click there to enable access to peripherals and others. Such permissions aren't enabled by default in snaps.
Or you can uninstall the snap version and install the one from the traditional repository.

---

### Post by jesthrive on 2020-05-27
OMG I really missed this Ubuntu:)

---

