---
title: "12.10 + Nvidia driver install issue."
date: 2013-01-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by winifix on 2013-01-23
Hi there, I have been experiencing the following error while attempting to install the nvidia-current-updates on my 64bit Ubuntu 12.10 (clean install of ubuntu).

I am running the command, and am provided with the output below, please can someone explain to me why it keeps looking for 32bit dependencies for a 64bit driver, and how to i get past this issue?

> winifix@winifix:~$ **sudo apt-get install nvidia-current-updates**
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 nvidia-current-updates:i386 : Depends: make:i386 but it is not going to be installed
                               Depends: sed:i386 (> 3.0) but it is not going to be installed
                               Depends: dkms:i386 but it is not installable
                               Depends: linux-headers-generic:i386 but it is not going to be                                                                         installed or linux-headers:i386
                               Depends: acpid:i386 but it is not going to be installed
                               Depends: libxvmc1:i386 but it is not going to be installed
                               Depends: xorg-video-abi-11:i386 but it is not installable or
                                        xorg-video-abi-12:i386 but it is not installable or
                                        xorg-video-abi-13:i386
                               Depends: xserver-xorg-core:i386 (>= 2:1.10.99.901) but it is not 
                                                  going to be installed
                               Recommends: nvidia-settings-updates:i386
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.
winifix@winifix:~$

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-01-23
I don't understand why you get those errors, but is there some reason you can't use nvidia-current?

You might try installing multiarch386-support first.

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2013-01-24
Try...
```
sudo apt-get purge nvidia*
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
```
See [**_[COLOR="DarkRed"]HERE[/COLOR]_**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12304169&postcount=3") for explanation.

Personally, I have a GeForce GTX 550 Ti and find the nouveau drivers
work very well for normal desktop computing.

---

### Post by winifix on 2013-01-24
Hi there,

Thanks for the feedback - unfortunately when I attempted both solutions and neither worked.

The first solution failed with similar error regarding i386, and the 2nd solution is essentially the steps i took initially - I re-attempted them and they gave the same error's again.

I then manually downloaded the 64bit versions of the dependencies it requested and that appeared to solve the issue - however I would like to know how to make the solution easier and more permanent - **is there a way to make apt-get use the correct 64bit architecture whenever possible?**

I have to say that so far my experience has been far from "easy" - Ubuntu is supposed to be the easiest to run and maintain yet it cant get simple architecture correct, I have never had that issue with any other Linux distro I have tried.

---

### Post by furything on 2013-01-24
There is an additional drivers gui which detects your graphics and offers you a few alternatives e.g. nvidia driver XXX in test 
nvidia driver tested (recommended)

This gets the driver headers etc compiles and installs for you. Cannot remember if the gui is there by default in ubuntu as I mostly I toy with mythbuntu which uses xfce desktop.

Try looking under system menu for additional drivers gui or install it from synaptic package manager. 

Far easier than doing it by hand.
Will also detect other devices such as (supported) dvb cards and allows updates of firmware etc.

---

