---
title: "Acer 6530"
date: 2009-04-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Glass_Onion on 2009-04-12
Heya

Old user switching back for my laptop. Recently got an Acer 6530 and want to install Ubuntu on it. Burnt of a couple of copies and both boot up fine, but when I try and select anything on the menu like the installation or run as live cd it freezes and won't do anything.

Only thing I can think of is that's I'vce got the wrong version. The processor is an AMD Turion X2 64bit so I know I should download the 64Bit version, but as I remember it that wouldn't matter I would just not get the best possible performance out of my processor. If that is what's stopping it how's support on the 64biut Kernal now? I remember a lot of requirments weren't available on it for programs I used to use.

---

### Post by Glass_Onion on 2009-04-13
I've tried it since with the 64bit version and have the same problem.

Could it be because I've got a BD-ROM and not a variation of CD or DVD drive?

---

### Post by Glass_Onion on 2009-04-15
2 days since the original post and no-one's at least pointed me somewhere I can get help? What happened to this place. :(

---

### Post by ManMythLegend on 2009-04-16
You need to boot up Ubuntu in Safe Graphics mode using f4 when prompted to select Install, Run without making changes to your system, boot from hard disk, etc...

Its your ATI card that's causing the freeze. Once you get it installed you need to install the ATI drivers to get your graphics proper.

Same thing was happening to me and I was able to get into the liveCD using this method but haven't made it to the installation portion yet, but it should work.

---

### Post by Nittalope on 2009-08-08
[LEFT]Got no problem at all installing 9.04, but I used the 32 bit version of the cd... everything's working great.
Only two problems:
- cannot set up the mic (to use with skype)
- the headset jack not working.
[/LEFT]

---

