---
title: "12.04 Graphics problem, HP 4530s"
date: 2012-05-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by IonFaraon on 2012-05-12
Today I finally managed to get 12.04 x64 working on my machine, HP Probook 4530s with i5 Sandy Bridge (with integrated graphics) and ATI discrete graphics. I finally managed to install a good version of fglrx which eventually worked, and started configuring my installation.

I did install CompizConfig and enabled the Desktop Cube and rotation and other eye candy, and while I was installing Pidgin suddenly my windows lost their frames and decorations. Upon restarting, after logon I was greeted by the mouse pointer and a blank desktop - so I guess the desktop manager is screwed.

The guest account logs in just fine, and seems to work, the only problem seems to be that Google Chrome won't work.

I tried restarting in recovery mode, but failsafe graphics mode seems to be useless. After two restarts through my Windows 7 partition, I could log in and Unity started, but fglrx wasn't working anymore - in fact, the driver was completely removed from there. So I reinstalled it and faced the exact same problem as before.

Any thoughts, suggestions, questions?

Sorry if this is improperly placed - it seems to me hardware-related, and I couldn't find anything relevant on Google.

---

### Post by UltimateCat on 2012-05-12
What graphic's card do you have?


If you are able to open a terminal and post:

```
lspci

```

Other members can help you....just be patient-

---

### Post by UltimateCat on 2012-05-12
What version of the kernel are you using?

Sorry, I should of asked in the previous post-

---

