---
title: "Help about via sg3 unichrome pro igp."
date: 2011-06-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by sohaiber on 2011-06-16
this my 3rd year with ubuntu, i tried almost all the versions since 2008.

Now i'm using ubuntu 11.04, and i still have the same problem, ubuntu can't identify my graphics card.

Plz help, i need a driver for via sg3 unichrome pro igp.

---

### Post by DirtyPC on 2011-06-16
I used to have the same IGP as this. I did this:

Open a linux terminal. Continue to type 
sudo apt-get install Xserver-xorg-video-openchrome


first backup original xorg.conf
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup


To edit file xorg.conf, use this command :
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf


then replace the xorg.conf file with the following


 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type &#8220;man xorg.conf&#8221; at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Module"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Tarjeta Integrada"
driver "openchrome"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
Option "DisableIRQ"
Option "ActiveDevice" "LCD,CRT"
Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
Option "DRI" "true"
Option "XaaNoImageWriteRect"
Option "SWcursor" "true"
Option "VideoRam" "65536"
Option "ForcePanel" "true"
Option "PanelSize" "1024×768"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "monitor01"
VendorName "Samsung"
ModelName "Syncmaster 591s"
HorizSync 30-55
VertRefresh 50-120
DisplaySize 270 203 # 1024×768 96dpi

Modeline "640×480@85" 35.71 640 672 736 832 480 481 484 505 -hsync +vsync
Modeline "800×600@85" 56.55 800 840 928 1056 600 601 604 630 -hsync +vsync
Modeline "1024×768@60" 64.11 1024 1080 1184 1344 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync

Option "DPMS" "on"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Pantalla01"
Monitor "monitor01"
Device "Tarjeta Integrada"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024×768" "800×600" "640×480"
Virtual 1024 768
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024×768" "800×600" "640×480"
Virtual 800 600
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Pantalla01"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection


For effect,you must reboot your machine.
sudo reboot

After reboot you can resize your desktop into 128x800

If it's doesn't work, you must back and use backup to your xorg.conf.
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by sohaiber on 2011-06-16
thanks a lot bro....

---

### Post by DirtyPC on 2011-06-17
did it work then?

---

### Post by paulbuk on 2011-08-27
Hi,
Just read your posting. I have an 'retired' Acer Aspire 1360 which I'm trying to get running for my sister as I have given the laptop to her.

Ubuntu 11.04 has loaded fine but the resolution is wrong and it won't show the correct resolution of 1024*768 as it should do. I've been trying to resolve this for weeks in order 'wean' my sis off M$ XP and onto Ubuntu permanently.

Will your script resolve the low res? can you further advise??

FYI, it shows a 'black block' running horizontal about 2 inches down the righthand side (which I have read somewhere else on this forum).

--->

The Acer spec is below:

Aspire 1360 Series Specifications
Part Number: Aspire1360 Aspire 1360
Feature Part Number Varies by model
Processor / Speed AMD Sempron 2800+ mobile processor
Core Logic Chipset VIA K8N800
System Bus Speed 333 MHz
RAM / Max RAM 512 (256*2) / 2GB
Video Subsystem Integrated UniChrome Pro IGP with up to 64MB shared video RAM
LCD Properties 15.0" XGA TFT with 1024 x 768 x 16m



Any helps is very much appreciated on this one as I'm running round in circles and my sis is not 'too' impressed at the mo with Ubuntu.
Regards,

Paul B
:)

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-08-27
Which sis exactly?
Run
```
lshw -c video
```

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

```
xrandr -q
```

post outputs..

---

### Post by .... on 2011-08-27
> **realzippy said:**
> Which sis exactly?
Run
```
lshw -c video
```

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

```
xrandr -q
```

post outputs..
He meant 'sis' as in sister, not SiS chipsets..

---

### Post by paulbuk on 2011-08-27
> **.... said:**
> He meant 'sis' as in sister, not SiS chipsets..

That's correct - 'sis' - Sister.
((-:

The chipset is a VIA K8N800.
The laptop is not here at the moment, but I will be looking at it again on Tues/Weds this week (31/08/11) so any help before then is much appreciated.
(:

Paul B

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-08-27
> **.... said:**
> He meant 'sis' as in sister, not SiS chipsets..

I also meant sis as in sister.
Tell me about your sister please... :)

Fun aside,guess I mixed them up,because both are to avoid like the plague in linux.Not offending your sister,
I mean VIA and SIS chipsets/graphics...

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-08-27
> **paulbuk said:**
> 
 it won't show the correct resolution of 1024*768 as it should do. I've been trying to resolve this for weeks 
What have you done/tried so far?
> **paulbuk said:**
> 
Will your script resolve the low res? can you further advise??
No script,just commands showing infos about graphics system.
If *xrandr* shows a maximum resolution > current resolution,it
might be possible to increase it.
> **paulbuk said:**
> 
FYI, it shows a 'black block' running horizontal about 2 inches down the righthand side (which I have read somewhere else on this forum).
Sounds bad,have a link?
> **paulbuk said:**
> 
my sis is not 'too' impressed at the mo with Ubuntu.

SIS or sis? :P

---

### Post by paulbuk on 2011-08-27
Ok guys enough of the 'SiS' joke, (don't you find Gaddafi female bodyguards more interesting?). (-:

The laptop was mine bought new circa 2005 when I was teaching IT but I'm now more 100% Ubuntu. It can show resolution of 1024*768 running M$ XP which came with it, but thats' crap now. I will try 'harrylucas1' posting below this week, but just wondering about general first port of call or simpy editing a txt file in Text Editor and bung it in the xorg dir.

I'll follow through 'realzippy's term codes later and post them Weds.

I'm just curious if there is/should be a 'generic' setup for 1024*768 res.
My own recent basic HP laptop runs 11.04 superb with no probs, so I presume it's the older Acer/Integrated chip issue.

Sorry, after 20+ years with M$, still a little fresh since moving over to Ubuntu 12+ months ago.

Paul B

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-08-27
When using the xorg.conf file from post #2,
make sure to edit the "Section Monitor" to your monitor's needs,
especially the VertRefresh,since *harrylucas1's* 591s is a CRT monitor,
and you likely use a TFT panel.Also DisplaySize 270 203 might not work on a different monitor.
Pure luck if it should have worked for *sohaiber*...

```

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "monitor01"
VendorName "Samsung"        #who cares
ModelName "Syncmaster 591s" #who cares 
HorizSync 30-55
VertRefresh 50-[COLOR="Red"]120[/COLOR]  #won't work or even damage
DisplaySize 270 203    #probably won't work ,might be obsolete anyway
```

edit lines with #

---

### Post by paulbuk on 2011-08-27
> **realzippy said:**
> When using the xorg.conf file from post #2,
make sure to edit the "Section Monitor" to your monitor's needs,
especially the VertRefresh,since *harrylucas1's* 591s is a CRT monitor,
and you likely use a TFT panel.Also DisplaySize 270 203 might not work on a different monitor.
Pure luck if it should have worked for *sohaiber*...

```

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "monitor01"
VendorName "Samsung"        #who cares
ModelName "Syncmaster 591s" #who cares 
HorizSync 30-55
VertRefresh 50-[COLOR="Red"]120[/COLOR]  #won't work or even damage
DisplaySize 270 203    #probably won't work ,might be obsolete anyway
```

edit lines with #


Cheers dude. I also found an older xorg.conf earlier, so I'll have a hack with that also.


Time for some RnR me thinks till tomorrow, will post my results later in week for future readers also.
:guitar:

PB

---

### Post by desertegl on 2011-09-27
> **realzippy said:**
> When using the xorg.conf file from post #2,
make sure to edit the "Section Monitor" to your monitor's needs,
especially the VertRefresh,since *harrylucas1's* 591s is a CRT monitor,
and you likely use a TFT panel.Also DisplaySize 270 203 might not work on a different monitor.
Pure luck if it should have worked for *sohaiber*...

```

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "monitor01"
VendorName "Samsung"        #who cares
ModelName "Syncmaster 591s" #who cares 
HorizSync 30-55
VertRefresh 50-[COLOR=Red]120[/COLOR]  #won't work or even damage
DisplaySize 270 203    #probably won't work ,might be obsolete anyway
```edit lines with #



HI...
NEWBIE HERE...

BUMP

*cliff notes*
looking to force resolution to 1024x768 at all times (gnome login screen + desktop environment)


*long version*
Migrating to Ubuntu from M$ and I have  a few questions pertaining to the topic, hope it's no bother. I too have the "S3 UniChrome Pro" onboard VGA from VIA and I'm currently only able to log-in using the "gnome failsafe" option. 

```
anonymous@firerat-desktop:~$ sudo lshw -c video
[sudo] password for anonymous: 
  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: CN700/P4M800 Pro/P4M800 CE/VN800 [S3 UniChrome Pro]
       vendor: VIA Technologies, Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm agp agp-3.0 bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=32 mingnt=2
       resources: memory:f4000000-f7ffffff(prefetchable) memory:f8000000-f8ffffff memory:f9000000-f900ffff(prefetchable)

```

```
anonymous@firerat-desktop:~$ lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/P4M800 Pro/P4M800 CE/VN800 [S3 UniChrome Pro] (rev 01)

```

```
anonymous@firerat-desktop:~$ xrandr -q
Screen 0: minimum 640 x 350, current 1024 x 768, maximum 1280 x 960
default connected 1024x768+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1280x960       60.0  
   1152x864       75.0     70.0     60.0  
   1024x768       85.0     75.0     70.0*    60.0  
   832x624        75.0  
   800x600        85.0     75.0     72.0     60.0     56.0  
   640x480        85.0     75.0     73.0     67.0     60.0  
   720x400        88.0     70.0     85.0  
   640x400        85.0  
   640x350        85.0  

```

My issue is when arriving at the login screen my resolution is set to 1280x960. Upon selecting my username and entering my credentials I am greeted by the login sound and then automatically booted back to the login screen. If I select "failsafe gnome" I can arrive at the "desktop" at a resolution of 1024x768.

I believe the problem is the resolution although I'm not sure.

Here is my xorg.conf :
```
Section "Device"
    Identifier    "PM800"
    Driver        "openchrome"
    Option "PanelSize" "1024x768"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "VX750"
    HorizSync       30-70
    VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "VX750"
    Device        "PM800"
EndSection
```

I can also post whatever is in /var/log/Xorg.0.log if anyone cares to take a look, although it's a huge amount of text. Basically I just need something that will force the resolution 1024x768 at all times (login screen and desktop).

Hope I used the Code tags correctly,

Cheers!

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-09-28
welcome desertegl!

try
```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       30-70
        VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

as xorg.conf.Anything else..

If it not works,post Xorg.0.log....

---

### Post by desertegl on 2011-09-30
> **realzippy said:**
> welcome desertegl!

try
```

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       30-70
        VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```as xorg.conf.Anything else..

If it not works,post Xorg.0.log....

Ok so you'd like for me to use the vesa driver instead of openchrome... I believe this is what failsafe gnome does for me already.

But yes it works I can log in to gnome without choosing fail safe option. 

I just thought openchrome would give me better performance but to be honest this is just an internet browsing box. 

well thanks for your help!

---

