---
title: "20.04 got printer scanner to work"
date: 2020-06-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-15
[FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]This was an add-on to this guide
[https://tutorialforlinux.com/2018/11/20/how-to-install-canon-pixma-ts6010ts6020-driver-on-ubuntu-gnulinux/2/](https://tutorialforlinux.com/2018/11/20/how-to-install-canon-pixma-ts6010ts6020-driver-on-ubuntu-gnulinux/2/)

The printer part is easy and works but I couldn't get the scanner to work until...

I think there were other things I had to add like a canberra library.
I finally figured out I had to choose that ESCL thing, whatever that is. <--------------

...
download 2 debs&#8230; (one for printer, one for scanner built in to printer)(these can be found on European site and some US sites)[/SIZE][/FONT]

 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]Extract 2 debs to /tmp[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]In /tmp, in [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]printer, then scanner [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]deb, open in terminal and sudo ./install.sh[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]It will ask you to connect printer and turn it on and press enter on computer. <-------[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]After it installs, you can print.[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]For scanner: same ./install.sh[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]Printer can be connected[/SIZE][/FONT]

 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]20.04 in terminal start simple-scan[/SIZE][/FONT]

 &#8220;[FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]Document Scanner" will pop up.[/SIZE][/FONT]

 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]When choice appears, choose &#8220;ESCL TS6000 series&#8221;[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]right click on it in left bar and add to favorites.[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]That favorite is how you scan.

Holler if you need this fleshed out.
[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-06-15
Thank you for the information.

It would be even more informative if you posted the brand/model and the website you got the drivers from.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-15
I added the link to the base guide. Thanks.

---

### Post by brian_p on 2020-06-15
Was the connection  a network connection or via USB? Please give what you get for ```
lpstat- l -e
``` and ```
scanimage -L
```

---

### Post by brian_p on 2020-06-15
I only asked the questions I did because of your invite:

> Holler if you need this fleshed out.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-15
> **brian_p said:**
> I only asked the questions I did because of your invite:

Yeah hey Brian, be patient with me a bit - this is a new build and I got caught up in an espresso question elsewhere (the food of life!!!).

I can't provide a complete guide because , althought I keep a running guide with each build install, so was following my 19.04 guide, it didn't work, and I kept trying it , and kept trying different things like qedit, then that canberra thing - I forget the message and as I google now, did I do 
sudo apt-get install libcanberra-gtk-module
I don't remember. but it wasn't until I focused on that drop-down choice menu and chose the second one that it started scanning succesfully.

Now why all of a sudden is this not word-wrapping. 
anyway the first part of that guide is fine and installing the deb for the scanner is fine.
What happens after you execute scangearmp2 that I had to guess.
I'll have to wait until 21.04 LTS to find out as I doubt I will clean re-inatall 20.04 - did it twice already.
Okay - your questions:
Mine is USB.

```
kris@kris-ThinkPad-T530:~$ lpstat- l -e

Command 'lpstat-' not found, did you mean:

  command 'lpstat' from deb cups-client (2.3.1-9ubuntu1.1)
  command 'lpstat' from deb lprng (3.8.B-2.2)

Try: sudo apt install <deb name>

kris@kris-ThinkPad-T530:~$ lpstat -l -e
TS6000USB-1 permanent ipp://localhost/printers/TS6000USB-1 cnijbe2://Canon/?port=usb&serial=119038
kris@kris-ThinkPad-T530:~$ scanimage -L

No scanners were identified. If you were expecting something different,
check that the scanner is plugged in, turned on and detected by the
sane-find-scanner tool (if appropriate). Please read the documentation
which came with this software (README, FAQ, manpages).
kris@kris-ThinkPad-T530:~$ scanimage -L
device `pixma:04A91801' is a CANON Canon PIXMA TS6000 Series multi-function peripheral
device `escl:http://127.0.0.1:60000' is a ESCL TS6000 series flatbed scanner
kris@kris-ThinkPad-T530:~$ scanimage -L
device `pixma:04A91801' is a CANON Canon PIXMA TS6000 Series multi-function peripheral
device `escl:http://127.0.0.1:60000' is a ESCL TS6000 series flatbed scanner
kris@kris-ThinkPad-T530:~$ 


```

If I want to scan something I click on "Document Scanner" in favorites.
It is not as straightforward as I thought.
I have to try and fail with canon canon pixma ts6000 series before I try with
escl - then clicking on scan works. 
This may have something to do with Ubuntu insisting of recognizing it as TS6000 series even though I have installed it as 
TS6000USB-1

why is this post not word wrapping. ARG>>>

---

### Post by brian_p on 2020-06-16
> Yeah hey Brian, be patient with me a bit - this is a new build ...

Apologies. I was a bit grumpy at the time. :( Thanks for the data.

Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04 both install ippusbxd. The difference is that on 20.04 the ippusbxd service is started by systemd. The idea is to make a USB printer immediately discoverable and available by using a facility on modern printers called IPP-over-USB.

This apparently hasn't happened with you because the only print queue shown is the queue set up with the Canon package. *lpstat -l -e* should show a second queue. You are not worried about this because you are able to print.

ESCL is the result of a new backend provided by SANE, sane-escl. You apparently have no problem scanning  with it, although I cannot understand why you should first have to click on the pixma entry first. In fact, you cannnot scan with this backend because eSCL commandeers the device's USB interface.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-16
> **brian_p said:**
> Apologies. I was a bit grumpy at the time. :( Thanks for the data.

Ubuntu 18.04 and 20.04 both install ippusbxd. The difference is that on 20.04 the ippusbxd service is started by systemd. The idea is to make a USB printer immediately discoverable and available by using a facility on modern printers called IPP-over-USB.

This apparently hasn't happened with you because the only print queue shown is the queue set up with the Canon package. *lpstat -l -e* should show a second queue. You are not worried about this because you are able to print.

ESCL is the result of a new backend provided by SANE, sane-escl. You apparently have no problem scanning  with it, although I cannot understand why you should first have to click on the pixma entry first. In fact, you cannnot scan with this backend because eSCL commandeers the device's USB interface.

The problem is that I have no real idea of what I did before it started working. I have done a few things and now have a better idea...

1. I don't believe the "scangearmp2-3.40-1-deb.tar.gz" module, from the instructions I was using, _**does anything**_.  But that assumes that "simple-scan" is already in the 20.04 Release. I won't know this unless I do a complete re-install and I am far too lazy.
2. It is using the scanner from the printer auto-recognized by Ubuntu (NOT the one I installed with "cnijfilter2-5.40-1-deb.tar.gz") - if that isn't there, you won't get offered the ESCL thing.
3. I had xsane installed for most of yesterdays tests and that may be the reason for it not scanning correctly the first time.

So I am going to change my instruction to myself to set up the scanner accordingly and I will see what happens when 21.04LTS comes along. - eg:
1. install printer driver as per guide.
2. assure that in settings/printers Ubuntu has recognized the printer.
3. terminal execute simple-scan which should start "Document Scanner" which should have the 2 choices, one being the ESCL thing.
(if 3. doesn't start Doc Scanner, then run the scangearmp2 deb and try again.)

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-19
Since I just did a re-clean-install i did get to revisit this:

```
[FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]**CUPS 1:30 delay sometimes on shutdown**[/SIZE][/FONT]
  [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]sudo systemctl edit cups-browsed.service[/SIZE][/FONT]
  [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3][Service][/SIZE][/FONT]
  [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]TimeoutStopSec=5[/SIZE][/FONT]
  [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]ctl-x to save and exit.[/SIZE][/FONT]
  [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]sudo systemctl daemon-reload[/SIZE][/FONT]
  [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]-[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]**printer installation ( I have a Canon TS6020)**[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]Turn off and unplug USB cable on printer. <--------[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3](TS6020 2 debs from Europe Canon site.)[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3][https://tutorialforlinux.com/2018/11/20/how-to-install-canon-pixma-ts6010ts6020-driver-on-ubuntu-gnulinux/2/](https://tutorialforlinux.com/2018/11/20/how-to-install-canon-pixma-ts6010ts6020-driver-on-ubuntu-gnulinux/2/)[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]sudo apt update[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]sudo apt install libxml2 libglade2-0 libpng3 libtiff5 &#8211; couldn&#8217;t locate 3[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]sudo apt install libgtk2.0-0[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]download printer deb and extract to /tmp[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]In /tmp, in [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]printer [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]deb, open in terminal and sudo ./install.sh[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]It will ask you to connect printer and turn it on and press enter on computer. [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]After it installs, you can print.[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]-Print test page.[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]For scanner, [/SIZE][/FONT] 
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]1. assure that in settings/printers Ubuntu has recognized the printer. It will appear twice: once for Ubuntu auto recognize, and once for 
the driver you just installed and test printed from.
2. terminal execute simple-scan which should start "Document Scanner". In a moment a dropdown will appear which should have the
 2 choices, one being the Canon thing and the other being the ESCL thing. Click canon, then scan. It will fail. Click start again. Click 
ESCL, then scan. It will scan. May have to do multiple times.[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Liberation Serif][SIZE=3]-[/SIZE][/FONT]
  
```

---

