---
title: "64-bit 11.04 should have 4mb mem or more?"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by olwe on 2011-05-01
As I understand it, any modern CPU can do 11.04 64-bit, but you should have 4mb of RAM or more to make it worth your while. Is this a correct assumption? I have a Toshiba Satellite L455-S5975, which has a Celeron. I'm guessing it's not dual core. Can I put 4mb RAM and use 11.04 64-bit?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-05-01
It depends what you use the computer for. If you run lots of CPU intensive tasks, the difference would be noticeable even with less RAM (2-3BG). On the other hand, with regular computer usage, you won't get any benefits.

---

### Post by Kenjitamura on 2011-05-01
If you upgrade to 4 GB ram even in 64 bit you won't notice much of a difference, amount of ram doesn't matter so much as its bandwidth and speed as long as you have 2 GB+.  If you do add another 2 GB the best you can hope for is dual channel (which if you're mixing ram might be a problem).  In a 32 bit computer you'll have 3.2 GB, in the linked review comparing performance between a system with 3 GB memory, 6 GB memory, and 12 GB memory there were almost no performance differences in applications even under intensive multi tasking. [http://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/memory-module-upgrade,2264.html]("http://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/memory-module-upgrade,2264.html")>

---

### Post by roger_1960 on 2011-05-01
Hi

Yes, with that processor you can use ubuntu 64 bit with or without upgrading RAM.  In my experience there is little point in using 64 bit Ubuntu unless you have 4GB or more.  There are a few applications which still are troublesome with 64 bit.

---

