---
title: "12.04 and tablet pc"
date: 2012-04-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dog-soldier on 2012-04-12
has anyone trued are are you now using 12.04 on a tablet pc? i have a fujitsu t4210 tablet pc that is running 11.04 right now and works great. what im wondering is, does the stylus work ? altho i have a mouse for it ,their are times when i use it as a tablet and use the stylus.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-04-12
Put 12.04 onto a usb drive and boot to it. That way you can try it out first.

---

### Post by xianbei on 2012-07-02
i have 12.04 installed on a Lenovo x220 tablet pc.

for the most part, it works and works well right out of the box, as they say.

it's relatively simple to get the Onboard (on screen) keyboard configured to show up whenever you tap into a text field. 

i do have a couple of gripes:

1) many of the built-in buttons in unity/gnome/cinnamon are too small for touch. for example, the close, minimize and maximize buttons are difficult to accurately touch on the first try with my clumsy fingers.

2) unity's file menu is tricky to get at. since it's hidden in the status bar at the top of the screen it can be awkward to access what would otherwise be nicely tappable items.

3) the multitouch is (sorry to say) way better in windows 7. when using a browser, windows 7 allows for 1-finger swipe scrolling and smooth pinch zoom, along with some other less useful touch features.

ubuntu's 2-finger scrolling is cloodgy. i usually use the scroll bar with one finger on the side (this is another feature that is small and difficult to grab on the first try).

ubuntu's pinch zoom does not work reliably.

--

i'm confident that ubuntu will move ahead and become more "touch friendly" as we move forward. however, so far it looks like they're way behind the curve compared to apple/windows.

if anyone has info on optimizing 12.04 for multitouch/gestures i would very much appreciate it.

thanks!

---

### Post by Favux on 2012-07-02
Hi xianbei,

I'll quote a recent post by Chris Bagwell on linuxwacom-discuss, one of the Linux Wacom Project Developers whose probably had the most to do with multitouch gestures.  Which are much improved by the way especially for the BambooPT's.
> Yeah, the Touchscreen support in current xf86-input-wacom has some big
issues in right click area.  There are also some issues with unwanted
left clicks during 2 finger drags.

Touchscreen users will probably be happier if they remap the touch
device from xf86-input-wacom to xf86-input-evdev using
/etc/X11/org.conf.d and then enable its EmulateThirdButton option to
get right click during press-and-hold.  If on latest Ubuntu, that
approach might even retain multi-touch gestures but done outside the X
driver and may not require enabling EmulateThirdButton option.

---

### Post by xianbei on 2012-08-08
Favux, thank you. i will have to take a closer look

---

