---
title: "Screen does not fill monitor - old Toshiba Satelite Pro"
date: 2009-03-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by withnail420 on 2009-03-10
I have an ancient Toshiba Satelite Pro 4600, and am running kubuntu 8.04 on it.

The screen in X only takes up 75% of the monitor.

I saw a thread with the exact same hardware and problem here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=989352](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=989352)

which was classed as solved, even though the solution was "I found a program that does this for me - can't remember what it was!". This has not solved the problem for me...

I have tried everything that was suggested in the thread linked above, and nothing worked.
I also tried loading an old version of kubuntu (6.06) that did not have this problem and copying the xorg.conf section on the monitor over to the new installation. This also did not work.

Any ideas anyone? I'm loving the distro but this is a major problem. I know it has been solved by someone else so I know this is possible.
The screen is fine if I ctrl+alt+F1 too.

Thanks in advance for any help given

---

### Post by coolethan on 2009-03-10
not to sound insulting but have you tried the monitor setting buttons located on the monitor? or try a different resolution

---

### Post by withnail420 on 2009-03-10
I guess I should have mentioned that it was a laptop.
yes i have tried other resolutions

---

### Post by jerrynewt on 2009-03-11
Maybe try this System>Preferences>Appearance. Go to backgrounds and in the style box try "fill screen" or "zoom" from the drop down menu.

---

### Post by withnail420 on 2009-03-11
Well, I managed to fix it.

It was nothing to do with KDE settings, as I suspected. I verified this by dropping to login, then killing kdm (the login manager) and starting X.
Still had the same problem.
After copying the monitor, screen, and video device section of xorg.conf from a copy of ubuntu 6.06 (when the screen worked fine) over, and still nothing, I gave up, backed up the old xorg.conf to xorg.conf.old, and just stuck the years old one in there.
And it bloody worked.
Going to post a copy of that config file here and to the old thread that claimed "solved" so that next time someone with this laptop comes across it, they won't have to mess around for three days like me.

Remember, only use this xorg.conf file if you have a Toshiba Satelite Pro 4600. Otherwise god knows what may happen.

-----------------------------------------

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Trident Microsystems CyberBlade/XP"
        Driver          "trident"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Trident Microsystems CyberBlade/XP"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection

        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-11
Hi withnail420,

I'm not surprised you had troubles, I've been trying to help some folks with Toshiba 3500's (tablet pc) get rotation.  They have the Trident chipset too.  At some point apparently a newer Xserver broke rotation.  It's not clear if there is any more developement on Trident video.

Not to nitpick but unless you have an external graphics tablet there are a lot of Wacom entries that could be removed or at least commented out.  You don't say what version of Ubuntu you are using.  If you're on Intrepid (8.10) you could also comment out your keyboard, mouse, and Synaptic TouchPad.

As you've discovered I would suggest saving xorg.conf versions for different Ubuntu versions in a safe place.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2009-03-11
Also KDE4's screen resolution tool isnt all that good too.

---

### Post by withnail420 on 2009-03-11
Favux,

Yeah, basically if they are using a trident chipset they are just out of luck for 3d. There was a 3d driver for the old X server, XF86, but since it switched over to Xorg another one hasn't been developed, and doesn't look likely to be either.

I did mention which version I'm using, in the first sentence.

Basically the fix for any old laptop that has screen issues the same as this is to load up an earlier version of ubuntu that didn't have this problem and copy the xorg.conf file over. Unlucky for you if you don't have an old cd...

As for commenting stuff...well i did try copying the relevant (at least I thought) sections over one by one and testing it, but nothing worked so I just did this as a last ditch. I'll be damned if I'm going to change anything now, heh.

But yes, if you are the tech guy for anyone you know using *ubuntu, keep an old disc handy for some config files.
Though why hardware detection has got worse is a bloody mystery to me.

---

### Post by withnail420 on 2009-03-11
oh and the wacom entries are probably my wireless keyboard and mouse

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-11
I don't think so,

and the sections are active because they are also not commented out in "ServerLayout".  They shouldn't have anything to do with video.  I'd guess the reason you're not getting a format error is because you don't have any wacom devices so the whole thing is null.  Just some wasted space.

Thanks for the info. on Trident.  That was helpful.

Edit:  I was wondering when you first just copied the video sections was your "ServerLayout" the same?  And did you also add?:
```
Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection
```

---

### Post by withnail420 on 2009-03-17
I didn't paste that section the first time I tried anything but I did try adding it before copying the entire thing over. Still did jack.

Hope someone with a bit of cash puts up a bounty for the trident chipset, tis a shame. I'm unemployed so I'm afraid it shall not be me.

---

