---
title: "Hardware issues"
date: 2008-12-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2008-12-28
I have a broken-in self-built computer and i have two separate hardware issues. I dual boot windows XP and ubuntu, my motherboard is an Intel DG43NB.
the first problem i've come across is that sometimes durring boot the Intel screen will stall and boot will never finish. can this be corrected with a BIOS update or is it something else?
the second problem is an audio problem. i have an internal Sound Blaster audio card with just a stereo as an output, however when i plug headphones into the headphone jack nothing happens and i still have sound coming out of the stereo. how can i get the headphone jack to override the stereo output?

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2008-12-31
I checked the intel site and followed the instructions for the recommended B
IOS linux update. but from booting from the burned .iso cd wouldn't work. i'm not even sure if this will fix the bios freeze problem

second i was reading a thread by dumbestcrayon who describes the same audio problem and has a fix but i'm wondering about the line of code.

hopefully with some forum help i can get these problems resolved and get back to normal computer worries :)

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-01-19
i'm looking for help again mainly because these have become really annoying problems.

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-01-27
i was able to update my bios with a different method so i'm halfway there. i'm just looking for a way to get my headphone port to override my speaker port. i opened the case and made sure the audio wires were plugged into the motherboard correctly already.

---

### Post by russu52 on 2009-01-27
hi
i'm under the impression that there are some jack drivers in the repo.

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-01-27
can i find a driver that works? my motherboard is Intel DG43NB

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-02-12
latest diagnostic test: disconnect the sound card, speaker port from MB doesn't work, headphone port does. i also noticed a port on the sound card with 10 pins inline, i wonder if i can connect my case's audio cable to this.

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-02-12
i took the sound card out last night to get a better look at it, i start the box up again and sound only works from the MB now, except for sounds generated by ubuntu such as from a hardware test and login. firefox and songbird wont play through the soundcard. i'm expecting to replace it with something with an AC'97 port on the soundcard unless there's a driver so that the headphone port works from the motherboard.

---

### Post by Messyhair42 on 2009-02-16
After more trial-and-error diagnostics i've come up hopeless. I can't connect my headphone port to my audio card and there are no sound blaster cards with the right port. Creative won't provide a driver that will let sound come from the MB but i've found out some interesting things.
after taking my audio card out and plugging it back in not everything will recognize it. the ubuntu hardware test runs sound through the sound card, i get sound through certain programs (such as firefox and vlc) but not through others (songbird). in the case of songbird i get sound if i plug into the MB audio port or the headphone port but not the soundcard. whereras if i boot into windows then all my sound comes through the soundcard. my next question is, is it possible to write my own driver that lets the headphone port interrupt the soundcard, everything tells me it's not necessarily a hardware problem and a driver would do the trick.

---

