---
title: "Old 10.04 LTS - ALC887 Audio"
date: 2013-10-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by X8XkE8x on 2013-10-23
Greetings.

I have been tasked with setting up an old ASUS EEEBox EB1033 using Ubuntu Desktop 10.04 LTS (Lucid is a firm requirement of necessary custom software).   As Ubuntu doesn't have a download for desktop lucid anymore, I grabbed server, then ran an update and finally apt-get install ubuntu-desktop to get a desktop. 

Everything but sound is working.  I cannot get the Realtek ALC887 sound card to produce audio.  I have confirmed nothing is muted using alsamixer, I've installed linux-backports-modules-alsa-lucid-generic, I've fiddled with options in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf, all to no avail.  I had intended to upgrade alsa, but the alsa site no longer lists dkms packages for Lucid. 

Aside from adding nvidia graphics drivers, nothing has been done to the base install other than the steps mentioned above.

/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base-conf ends with: 
options snd-hda-intel model=generic

# aplay -l

card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC887 Analog [ALC887 Analog]
    Subdevices: 1/1
    Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC887 Analog [ALC887 Analog]
    Subdevices: 1/1
    Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

# cat /proc/driver/nvidia/version
NVRM version: NVIDIA UNIX x86 Kernel Module  319.17  Thu Apr 25 22:14:10 PDT 2013
GCC version:  gcc version 4.4.3 (Ubuntu 4.4.3-4ubuntu5.1)

# uname -r
2.6.32-52-generic-pae

# lspci
04:00.1 Audio device: nVidia Corporation Device 0e08 (rev a1)

Can anyone offer assistance?

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-10-23
It's possible that the sound chip is bad.  What is the output of the following:

```
lsmod | grep snd
```

It should look something like:


tgalati4@tpad-Gloria7 ~ $ lsmod | grep snd
snd_intel8x0           37532  3 
snd_ac97_codec        112292  1 snd_intel8x0
ac97_bus                9856  1 snd_ac97_codec
snd_pcm_oss            46336  0 
snd_mixer_oss          22656  1 snd_pcm_oss
snd_pcm                83076  3 snd_intel8x0,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss
snd_seq_dummy          10756  0 
snd_seq_oss            37760  0 
snd_seq_midi           14336  0 
snd_rawmidi            29696  1 snd_seq_midi
snd_seq_midi_event     15104  2 snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi
snd_seq                56880  6 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
snd_timer              29704  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
snd_seq_device         14988  5 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
snd                    62756  16 snd_intel8x0,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_seq_oss,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
soundcore              15200  1 snd
snd_page_alloc         16904  2 snd_intel8x0,snd_pcm

Intel, on-board sound, with Realtek chips normally works out-of-the box.  The fact that you have jumped through hoops seems to me that the sound chip is broken.

Try the microphone port as well, sometimes they are swapped.

---

