---
title: "11.04 USB Mouse and USB External Hard Drive"
date: 2011-05-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by owenm100 on 2011-05-23
I just installed Ubuntu 11.04 today and im having two problems i haven't been able to fix by just searching the Internet. 

First is my USB mouse doesn't work at the welcome screen, or for about 2 minuets after Ubuntu has fully booted. But then it works fine with no problems. Just wondering why this might be and how i could fix it.

And my second is that Ubuntu isn't recognising my external USB hard drive, in any port.

My motherboard is an ABIT AB9 Pro. 


And a copypaste of lsusb

```
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 15d9:0a41 Trust International B.V. MI-2540D [Optical mouse]
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
```

[COLOR="Red"]Note: My mouse now works straight away, don't know what i did. But still having hard Drive problem[/COLOR]

---

### Post by owenm100 on 2011-05-23
I've tried the mouse in every USB slot. It still has a delay in working, but eventually works every time in every slot. However my external hard drive will not work in any slot, it did in windows just before i installed Ubuntu. And it does on a windows laptop. 

Any ideas why it wont work? Any help much appreciated

Also my USB memory stick works intermittently, sometimes its being recognised, others it isn't. Seems like all external storage is having problems.


[COLOR="Red"]Update[/COLOR]

If i turn my external hard drive off and on again, and run "lsusb" as soon as i turn it on it is recognized as 

```
Bus 002 Device 015: ID 0411:002a MelCo., Inc. 

```

But then seconds later its no longer recognised


[COLOR="Red"]Update, again[/COLOR]

It is now recognised in disk manager as "Unrecognised 320 gig". I presume if i choose the format option it will start to work once formatted. But i'd rather not have to do that. So ill wait and see if anyone has any ideas. 

(Sorry this has all been so muddled, also the mouse only works straight away intermittently)

---

### Post by savysgrrl on 2011-05-25
I am having the same problem.  One person told me to look for the drive listed under places.  That didn't work for me, but maybe it'll work for you.

---

### Post by kusic on 2011-08-14
Hello,
I did have exactly same problem and 100% fix for me was to add IRQPOLL option to grub bootloader...
Jan

---

