---
title: "11.10: IBM R400 with Intel GMA 4500MHD- 2D only"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by marcmeier on 2011-10-14
G'day, All

I did a fresh install of Oneiric on my IBM/Lenovo R400 (7439-CTO).  The GSM broadband worked!  Whoot, whoot!

I then installed ccsm and went in to change the Unity icon size- settings changed, but no icon size change.

Looked into it a bit more and found that 11.10 was defaulting to Unity 2D (I can't remember what Natty did, but I could change icon sizes, so I'm presuming I had 3D).

Trawled the net, found lots of mentions, but no definitive solutions.

I'd greatly appreciate it if someone can help...

---

### Post by ethought on 2011-10-14
I am having the same problem. After the nightmare of an 'upgrade' to 11.10 I could change my launcher icon size with ccsm. But now after going through all sorts of Nvidia problems I cannot change the icon sizes anymore...?

---

### Post by foresthill on 2011-10-14
I have the same graphics chip in my laptop (GMA 4500). Were you able to get 11.04 to install without incident? 

Because there is a very serious backlight problem with this chip in 11.04, and I'm wondering whether or not it has been fixed in 11.10.

I tried the 11.10 Beta, and was not able to install it due to the screen backlight not turning on at all, so I assumed that this problem had not been addressed.

---

### Post by PCLinuxGuy on 2011-10-15
really? dang, I really hoped 11.10 fixed that issue with the 3.0 kernel upgrade. Do they not realize that not everyone runs the latest and greatest and they**[COLOR=Red] NEED[/COLOR]** to support for those drivers. I mean 10.04LTS had those included and runs awesome so there's no excuse for them not to continue to include that going forward with their releases until the 14.04 LTS at least.

---

### Post by marcmeier on 2011-10-16
Well, with the 4500 chip I have had no backlight problems under 11.04 and/or 11.10, although I found plenty of mentions of this in the forums.

My problem is no 3D, ie the vesa driver is being used instead of the chip being recognised.

Cheers

---

### Post by marcmeier on 2011-10-17
Right, I did some more checking and came up with the following:

marc@marc-ThinkPad-R400:~$ /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
OpenGL vendor string:   Tungsten Graphics, Inc
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Mobile Intel® GM45 Express Chipset x86/MMX/SSE2
OpenGL version string:  2.1 Mesa 7.11

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       yes

To my unfamiliar eye, it looks like something should be possible... but, I haven't a clue about what configuration to edit where... can someone help?

Cheers

---

### Post by marcmeier on 2011-10-19
Weird... after installing mesa-utils, all is good.

---

