---
title: "M11xR2 XServer graphics issue"
date: 2011-02-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kev2316 on 2011-02-26
I'm dual booting Backtrack 4 and Windows 7 on my M11xR2 but when i  update the video card in Backtrack, i get an error no screens found, and  even when i use fixvesa and change the xconfig file back to normal it  doesn't work. I have used two methods of updating the backtrack auto  update method and the actual driver i downloaded from the site, both  ended with same results. I have also altered the xconfig file quite some  bit to try to get it to work but still to no avail.  It says video  device isn't found err ("No Devices Detected") but that makes no sense  because before installing the driver everything loads fine but obviously  with no graphic driver and in low resolution. I've been looking  everywhere to solve this and have tried a lot of things i was just  curious if maybe there is an older driver that someone used that they  know works for sure or not. Or if anyone knows the solution to this,  thank you in advance I'm not to much of a noob so feel free to give  complicated advice if you think it'll work [IMG]http://forum.notebookreview.com/images/smilies/smile.gif[/IMG]

I  know im running backtrack and not ubuntu but for this issue i think its almost generally the same and i don't know where else to get support.

Here is my xconfig file, the error message screen and the x-config log.

---

### Post by kev2316 on 2011-02-28
UPDATE****************

With this modified xorg.conf file it does load the xserver but it goes to a blank screen.
So i dont know what else to do someone please help.



# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.26  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-01.nvidia.com)  Mon Feb 14 01:50:35 PST 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Option	   "AddARGBLXVisuals" "true"
    Option	   "RenderAccel" "true"
    Option	   "ConnectedMonitor" "DFP-0"
    Option	   "CustomEDID" "DFP-0:/etc/X11/sec5441.bin"
    Identifier     "Card1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GT215 [Geforce GT 335m]"
    BusId          "PCI:1:0:0" 
    Option         "CoolBits" "1"
	
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Option	   "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP"
    Option	   "TwinView" "0"
    Option	   "metamodes" "1368x768_60 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by kev2316 on 2011-03-23
refresh

---

