---
title: "10.10 w/HD5850 boots into shell"
date: 2011-01-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by B-80 on 2011-01-04
I just got this card off a guy online about a week ago, and I had it in my pc for a few days. My friend came over and we were working on one of his hard drives when I had to restart my computer(was using windows at the time). When I tried to boot back into windows, it would just restart my system. So I tried ubuntu, and it booted my into a shell, no X session. I was able to get ubuntu to load into "low graphics mode," and once was able to get windows to load into safe mode (then that even crapped out). I BSODed twice with an error on atikmdag.sys, but haven't looked into that too much other than to know it's an ATI process. 

So I completely wiped both OSes off their drives and reinstalled both this morning. Everything went fine until I installed the drivers for the card. Both Windows and Linux are doing the same thing. Windows restarts my computer, Ubuntu wont give me an X session.

Obviously this could be a problem with the card itself, but I'd like some trouble shooting steps. 

I installed the drivers through "Additional Drivers" under Administration. Right now(in low graphics mode), it has ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRK graphics driver highlighted, and says the driver is activated and currently in use.

Any other steps I could take here to try and figure this out?

---

### Post by B-80 on 2011-01-04
bump

---

### Post by brunis on 2011-04-30
Yeah, uninstall it (fglrx), the whole 5xxx range has issues.

---

