---
title: "120 or 240GB SSD"
date: 2017-12-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2017-12-27
I currently dual boot with windows10 (I only use win10 for itunes - no other use as I'm 99.9% ubuntu).  I would like to go for a SSD drive and keep my existing 3 HDs for storage and backup.  My existing partitions for the 2 OSs are 200GB for win10 (of which 56GB is used) and 30GB for ubuntu (of which 8GB is used).  I've always followed the principle of going for the largest drive as possible but I'm not sure whether I need a 120GB or 240GB ssd.  Allowing 30% extra for win10, which would take me to @75GB and allowing extra for ubuntu it seems 120GB is more than enough - if I put in a 240GB ssd it seems to me most of it will be unused.   I have more than enough HD for storage and backup so I'm not sure if 240GB is way over the top and 120GB is more than enough for me.  (I have 8GB ram and read many times that for 'normal use' going for 16GB ram, over 8GB, does not really make much difference.  Any advice appreciated.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-12-27
My now almost 3 year old build was 8GB RAM and 120GB SSD with 1TB HDD. (in Illinois).
I have two Ubuntu installs, but no Windows. But still have not used all the space.

I then built a system in Florida about a year ago, as spending more time there, but cost of larger SSD and 16GB of RAM was not much than I paid before for smaller drive/RAM. But have not yet used all of SSD, Thought I might experiment with Virtual Box installs and then extra RAM would be used, but have not gotten around to it yet.

I do have extra / (root) partition(s) on all drives, so every drive could be booted. And I add a partition for ISO on every drive, so I can boot ISO directly from drive with grub loop mount to install in other drive.

So I go for larger as long as not a lot more expensive.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-12-27
I use about 120GB for a Win10/Linux multiboot (65/55 split). I've got plenty of free space in each partition. Whether that means anything to you or not, I don't know.

It seems like you answered your own question. Get a 128GB drive and call it a day. No to more RAM unless you have a specific case for it (like if you run multiple VM's or you're one of those people that insists on having a thousand browser tabs open as part of your  "workflow").

---

### Post by litlesam on 2017-12-27
> **Quarkrad said:**
> I'm not sure if 240GB is way over the top and 120GB is more than enough for me.  (I have 8GB ram and read many times that for 'normal use' going for 16GB ram, over 8GB, does not really make much difference.  Any advice appreciated.

^^^ I think you answered your own question.

I'm running 2 Linux OS on a 120GB SSD with 8GB of ram which is more than what's required.

With all the other HDDs you have, I'm sure your good to go.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2017-12-28
Thank you (both) for your advice. I have never done it but I'm thinking of splitting **/home** between SSD and HD.  I am sure I have read in the past that OLDFRED links his home files folders to other place, so they physically reside not in **/home** but elsewhere, perhaps on another HD.  I am not sure how this in done (create symbolics links after installation?) but am thinking on a variant of this theme.  Is it possible to have **/home** on the SSD (as well as the OS) and have a mix of physical and linking folders?  This is my thinking:  to get the max benefit have apps like Calc, Writer on the SSD and their associated files (which for me reside in **/home/Documents**) so everything loads faster. But for some of my larger, but not frequently used **/home** folders like *Downloads* and *Dropbox* - have them linked to my HD.  I do not play games and infrequently run video editing so I'm not bothered about these aspects of faster running re the ssd.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-12-28
Yeah, you can make links. That's what I do for ~/Music, ~/Videos, etc.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2017-12-28
Two last questions if I may - I have in my head that windows 10 likes 30% of disk space (I'm reading the partition that win10 is installed on) for optimal operation - is that figure sensible and is there a similar figure for ubuntu (not sure if this is a relevant question for ubuntu/ext4)?  Secondly, with ubuntu on a SSD with 8GB RAM should I still configure swap space?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-12-28
Ubuntu likes some extra space, it even hides 5% that you normally do not see. If using a data only partition, you can change the 5% setting, but then have to make sure you do not overfill drive.
SSD also like over provisioning, or some not used space. Have not seen any specific suggestion with Linux on extra recommended space, but would keep extra space as unallocated.
 Over-provisioning
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2315800&p=13451651#post13451651](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2315800&p=13451651#post13451651) 


Ubuntu has changed with 17.04 and later to use swap file. But if swap partition is found, it will still use it automatically.

I do keep /home inside / on SSD, but link all folders into a /mnt/data partition on HDD. I also copy Firefox & Thunderbird profiles (but that may make them a bit slower). You can put as much or as little data as you want in data partition(s) on HDD.

I like to have at least one install on every drive, or full installs on larger flash drives.

       Data can be shared without the possible conflicts of user settings being different in different versions. I only copy some settings from one install to the next, normally. But I have to separately back up /home and the /mnt/data partition. Also saves the error of reformating a /home partition accidentally. I never reformat my /mnt/data and just configure / for install. 
   [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2315714](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2315714)
Splitting home directory discussion and details:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811198)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1901437](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1901437)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1734233&highlight=%2Fdata](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1734233&highlight=%2Fdata)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-12-28
I'd put the swapfile on a hard disk. [https://askubuntu.com/questions/904628/default-17-04-swap-file-location](https://askubuntu.com/questions/904628/default-17-04-swap-file-location)
..or create a swap partition if it's not too much of an issue for you.

Same with Windows. Put the pagefile on the hard disk: [http://www.tomshardware.com/faq/id-2864547/manage-virtual-memory-pagefile-windows.html](http://www.tomshardware.com/faq/id-2864547/manage-virtual-memory-pagefile-windows.html)

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2017-12-28
Thank you both again.  You both comment on the swap partition - until your posts, having read a number of sites and youtube videos, I was not going to have a swap partition.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2017-12-29
I haven't created a swap partition on new installs for years and am unaware of any negative consequences. I did create swap files on machines with limited RAM. I've read that swap files used to be pretty slow but recent versions are similar in performance to swap partitions. As I understand it - I'm no expert - swap partitions are required only for hibernation and should be sized for perhaps 1.5 - 2 X installed RAM. I've never used hibernation so feel no need for a physical swap partition. On machines that have had swap partitions or swap files I've checked usage using HTOP and swap has seldom had any significant usage.

---

