---
title: "hd4670"
date: 2008-09-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rover3500 on 2008-09-28
Hi everyone...i know its a bit of a long shot,as they've only just come out,but can anyone tell me if i can use my graphics card,a radeon hd4670 on ubuntu/kubuntu,have lots of different versions,64 and 32 bit.Tried on ultimate,but no luck.Ati dont do an up to date driver,i got 8.8 on disk,and 8.9 doesn't support my card,i tried a few-bit wierd i think.

Thanx all

---

### Post by morgan10 on 2008-09-28
**Kiefer Sutherland reflects on DUI arrest**Kiefer Sutherland has admitted that his decision to drive while under the influence of alcohol last year was "so stupid".The 24 actor served a 48-day jail sentence after being arrested and charged over the incident, which took place while he was on probation for a 2004 drink-driving [Brazzers Network](http://www.paysitespy.com/brazzers-network/) offence."People make mistakes. I never lied about it being a mistake and I had to go through what I had to go through for it," Sutherland told The Times. "I was incredibly cross with myself for it. It was careless and I wasn't thinking. Hopefully that's behind me and I'm moving on. I've never had a traffic accident in my [Pregnant Girl](http://www.preggolicious.org/), but if I did in that situation and I had hurt someone, well, your life is over. It was so stupid."Asked about his time in jail, he replied: "I did a lot of folding clothes and thinking about what I was doing in there. I keep feeling I should say something more about it. But I made a mistake and I was lucky because people have been [Dogging Uncovered](http://www.uncoveredxxx.com/dogging-uncovered/) really supportive. I don&#8217;t ever want to make a joke of it. There were people who were upset about it and they had a right to be because it's a dangerous thing to do and I regret it very much."Sutherland's new movie Mirrors is released to cinemas in the UK next month. 24 returns with a two-hour prequel to season seven in November.He continued: "[De Niro] is a great actor and [Anjali Uncovered](http://www.uncoveredxxx.com/swinger-anjali-uncovered/) actually a great guy, who's going through a difficult time... I think he's really having like a scratching-his-head session, you know, with his own life and his own career."I think he knows he can play a certain kind of role from now for the next 20 years. But I think he wants to change the course of his career."Weinstein's lawyer David Boies slammed the [Shaft Uncovered](http://www.uncoveredxxx.com/shaft-uncovered/) media for releasing the audio, saying: "We are disappointed that any member of the press is trafficking in illegal tape recordings and compounding the damage by taking them out of context."

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-28
It should work.  Just use a live cd, and see if you have any problems.  If you don't (or do) then then installing should be the same.

Moved to Hardware and Laptops.

---

### Post by isrich on 2008-09-29
Hi rover3500

I did it with catalyst 8.9 to hardy x64
here my result of fglrxinfo command

> @monkey:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon HD 4670
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7979 Release


But I got problem with video overlay :(
to play video files or tv from saa7130 I have to stop compiz.
still looking for solution for that. :confused:

---

### Post by Opalinus on 2009-01-17
My Output with fglrxinfo:
```
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon HD 4670
OpenGL version string: 2.1.8087 Release
```

Well I have a newer Version but the same problem: Compiz works, but not Videos, only after deactivating it.

(Okay the problem is not very bad, compiz is not a must have, only a gimick)

Greets

---

### Post by jaxxed on 2009-12-21
I had no problems getting 2d to work from the kubuntu live cd for karmic and lucid.  This means using the open sourced Radeon driver.

3d and composite effects were a little trickier, in karmic requiring use of the xorg-edgers ppa repository drivers, which required installing a 2.6.32 kernel from the mainline guys.  Overall very easy to do, but a little bit more efforts.
I've repeated the same steps with a lucid kubuntu install, but I've still not gotten any 3d stuff to work, I think that the dri2 stuff isn't falling into line with the rc1 (2.6.33.something) kernel that I've installed.

Still all 2d stuff works great right out of the box, and peforms really well, with both karmic and lucid.

I'd make links to the xorg-edgers and mainline guys, but I've already made these comments a couple of times and so I know that it will be easy for you to find this information.  Just one word to the wise, make sure that you upgrade the kernel, before you enable your kde 3d effects (likely the same warning applies to compiz) as it might prevent starting of your desktop, which can be tricky to fix.)

EDIT: I forgot to mention that I am using 64bit everything, on an i7 processor on a Dell studio XPS16, with their HD4670 1GB video card. 

J

---

