---
title: "10.04 floppy not visible / accessible"
date: 2011-06-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by richard5065 on 2011-06-21
I found in the forum that I have to go back to the 1build1 version of udisks and I downloaded it, but when I try to install it, I get a message from the synaptic manager that "a later version is already installed". If I try to remove  the exisiting one, it is telling me that I have to remove several other packages that I do not want to do.
I am new to ubuntu so I do not know where to copy the downloaded file so it will appear in the versions and I can make a choice of forcing the installation.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-06-21
Welcome to the forum.

Dropping back a version of many programs can be problematic because of specific dependencies - as you are finding. Can you provide a link to the thread/post that suggests reverting to an earlier version of udisks?

A not particularly elegant but functional workaround to this issue of floppy mounting that has plagued Ubuntu for far too long is to open a terminal, and:

```
udisks --mount /dev/fd0
```You need to put a floppy disc in the drive before you run that. If you get an error about fd0 not existing, post back and we'll look into that.

If that works for you, two comments. You can create a desktop and/or panel launcher based on that - it makes it a little more elegant. Also - if you do manage to mount a floppy with that command, you need to be aware that writing to floppy is a little different from what you are used to in Windows. Sometimes, when you drag and drop files into the floppy file-manager window, the write is not committed to disc immediately, but merely placed in the memory cache. Therefore, don't simply remove the disc when you are finished - you need to right-click on the desktop icon and choose "eject/unmount/safely-remove" (I don't remember which) when anything in the cache will then be written to disc.

---

### Post by mark bower on 2011-07-13
coffeecat - thanks for this.

i placed your code in a desktop launcher and disk access works just fine.

somehow, in going from 9.10 to 10.10, things did not works as before, or so it seems.  i tried putting "/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 vfat rw, user,noauto 0 0" and its variant "/dev/fd0 /media/floppy auto rw,user,noauto 00" in fstab, but neither worked.  your code saved my day.

its a bummer that even tho "Places" shows the floppy drive, clicking on it will not show files on a floppy, at least in 10.10.

mark bower

---

### Post by massasauga on 2011-11-07
Thanx Coffeecat!

I thought I was losing my mind. I couldn't figure why I couldn't mount a floppy after doing it for so many years. Your solution works, and I can once again browse my old diskettes.

---

