---
title: "monitor config problems with Gateway MX3220b"
date: 2009-01-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jrms on 2009-01-28
Hello,

I'm trying to set up xubuntu 8.10 on my Gateway MX3220b laptop.  The install from the Live disk appears to have gone well.

However, xubuntu seems to think that my monitor is bigger than it actually is - the screen resolution is set at 1400x1050, and if I try to set it to 1280x768, which is the maximum resolution for this laptop, I end up with a corrupt display for a few seconds, after which it switches back to 1400x1050.

I suspect that I need to do things to my xorg.conf file, but I honestly don't have a clue what.

My xorg.conf is below, as is what Gateway has to say about my machine's specifications.

Thanks in advance to anybody who'll help me out!

Best wishes,

Joel.



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

-------------------------------------

Gateway's specs for my machine:


Processor 	Intel® Celeron® M Processor 360
1 MB L2 Cache | 1.4 GHz | 400 MHz FSB
Display Screen 	14-inch Widescreen Ultrabright WXGA TFT
Chipset 	Via VN800
Memory 	512 MB 533 MHz DDR2 (1 × 512 MB)
Expandable to 1 GB
Video 	S3 UniChrome™ Pro Integrated Graphics Processor
Up to 64 MB Shared Video Memory
Audio 	AC '97 2.3 Compliant Audio
Hard Drive 	60 GB HDD (4200 RPM)
Optical Drive 	DVD +/- RW Multi-Format Double Layer
Write maximum: 8X DVD +/-R, 4XDVD +/- RW, 2.4X DVD+/-R DL, 24X CD-R and 10X CD-RW Discs
Reads maximum: 8X DVD-ROM, 8X DL+/-RW, 24X CD-ROM disks
Media Reader 	4-in-1 Digital Media Manager
Secure Digital, Memory Stick, Memory Stick-Pro, and MMC
Modem 	56K ITU V.92 ready Fax/Modem (RJ-11 port)
Network 	10/100 Mbps built-in Ethernet
802.11g integrated Wireless (up to 54Mbps)
Interfaces 	

    * 2 - USB 2.0 Ports
    * 1 - VGA External Connector
    * 1 - RJ11 (Modem)
    * 1 - RJ45 (Ethernet LAN)
    * Microphone In
    * Headphone / Audio Out 

Pointing Device 	Touchpad with Vertical Scroll Zone
PCMCIA 	1 - Type I or Type II; Card Bus
Battery 	6-cell Lithium-ion
Dimensions 	1.1 to 1.24-inches H × 13-inches W × 9.7-inches D

---

### Post by jrms on 2009-01-29
bump

---

### Post by jugodrax on 2009-01-30
Same problem on a MX3215. The first time I installed was over windows and it worked fine. Two days ago I accecdently deleted my top taskbar, (I only had one), and could not get it back. I have reinstalled twice now, thinking I missed something the first time. Same problem. I am about to try pulling the .inf from the xp driver and forcing the video to use it. Hopefully someone can help. I will post with my results.

I am running ubuntu 8.04

---

### Post by jugodrax on 2009-01-30
Well that was useless. Anyone have any ideas?

---

