---
title: "12.04 overheat and graphics problem on an AMD pc."
date: 2012-08-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by underberk on 2012-08-13
Hello my friends. I am using an AMD powered pc, HP Pavilion g6-1085 ST.

Specifications;

1.8 GHz AMD Phenom II Quad-Core P960
2 MB L2 Cache
4 GB DDR3 RAM
AMD Radeon HD 6470M switchable with Radeon HD 4250
640 GB SATA

First of all when i use Windows 7, computer working great. Silent and cool.
But when i install Ubuntu, computer is overheating. If i use AMD proprietary FGLRX driver, heating and noise are reducing a bit (not like Windows 7) but this time graphics working very bad. Sometimes i am receiving crash reports. Every animation is lagging. And all graphichal performance is going down. When the driver uninstalled again the computer is resuming all overheating and noise. But this time graphics are working better.

I heard that 6470M is not compatible with Ubuntu. Is it true? If it's true then why? I need use Ubuntu. Please help me on this situation.

(Same problems in 32 bit. I am using 64)

---

### Post by jemadux on 2012-08-13
if your machine is on guarrantee just call the service or if not open the tap an clean the dust from the fan

---

### Post by TBABill on 2012-08-13
Did you install the driver from the repos or did you get the very latest from AMD? The AMD driver should give you good performance, but I have found the repo version (in the past) failed to work properly.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2012-08-13
[http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/06/install-amd-ati-catalyst-126-display.html](http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/06/install-amd-ati-catalyst-126-display.html)

---

### Post by PANGERAN on 2012-09-29
I had a same problem, using Compaq CQ-41, CPU AMD Thurion II and ATI Radeon 4200... using win xp and win 7 is so cool and quiet... i think the problem is the AMD doesn't make an optimized driver for linux.

---

