---
title: "11.04 and a tablet pc"
date: 2011-06-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dog-soldier on 2011-06-30
i have been wondering if anyone has put 11.04 on a tablet pc. if you have , did the stylus work or did you have to mess alot with it?
right now im using the 10.10 netbook remix and everything worked right out of the box except internet and that just took rebooting the moden and router

---

### Post by dog-soldier on 2011-07-06
if any body is wondering if 11.04 will work on a tablet im here to tell you it works very  well. 
i  started with 10.10 notebook remix and upgraded to 11.04 and all is well and working like a charm.
the styles works like it should .
the only thing that dont work is screen rotation but i  wont worry to much with that

---

### Post by Favux on 2011-07-06
Hi dog-soldier,

What kind of tablet PC do you have?  We may be able to get rotation working on it.

---

### Post by dog-soldier on 2011-07-07
i have a fujitsu t4210





i will unmark this as solved

---

### Post by Favux on 2011-07-07
Most folks use Robert Gerlach's PPA of fjbtndrv for rotation because it also enables the bezel buttons:  [https://launchpad.net/~khnz/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=maverick](https://launchpad.net/~khnz/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=maverick)  But it looks like the latest release is for Maverick and it hasn't yet been updated for Natty.  I guess the source code is here:  [http://sourceforge.net/projects/fjbtndrv/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/fjbtndrv/)

If you don't want to look at the scripts in the source code and figure out what needs to be changed you could, in the meantime, use one of the methods on the [Rotation HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6274392&postcount=1").

---

### Post by dog-soldier on 2011-07-20
Favux i followed your codes on this post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1807344](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1807344) .

here are what i got when i ran 
lspci | grep VGA

dog@dog-LifeBook-T4210:~$ lspci | grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

Does:
Code:
xrandr -o right
in a terminal rotate it to right portrait? To get back to normal i.e. landscape:  YES IT DOES

To get back to normal i.e. landscape:
Code:
xrandr -o normal

YES IT DID

not sure if this helps or not

---

### Post by Favux on 2011-07-20
It means we should be able to set you up with a working rotation script.  You have a stylus and eraser, but not touch, correct?  What is the output of *xinput list* in a terminal?

---

### Post by dog-soldier on 2011-07-20
yes i have a stylus and eraser .if you mean touch with finger no.

dog@dog-LifeBook-T4210:~$ xinput list 
&#9121; Virtual core pointer                    	id=2	[master pointer  (3)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Virtual core XTEST pointer              	id=4	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse         	id=11	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad              	id=13	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Serial Wacom Tablet eraser              	id=14	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Serial Wacom Tablet stylus              	id=15	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9123; Virtual core keyboard                   	id=3	[master keyboard (2)]
    &#8627; Virtual core XTEST keyboard             	id=5	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                            	id=6	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Fujitsu FUJ02E3                         	id=7	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Video Bus                               	id=8	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Fujitsu FUJ02B1                         	id=9	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                            	id=10	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; AT Translated Set 2 keyboard            	id=12	[slave  keyboard (3)]

---

### Post by Favux on 2011-07-20
Alright, use this as your rotation script:
```
#!/bin/sh

# Find the line in "xrandr -q --verbose" output that contains current screen orientation and "strip" out current orientation.

rotation="$(xrandr -q --verbose | grep 'connected' | egrep -o  '\) (normal|left|inverted|right) \(' | egrep -o '(normal|left|inverted|right)')"

# Using current screen orientation proceed to rotate screen and input tools.

case "$rotation" in
    normal)
    # rotate to the right
    xrandr -o right
    xsetwacom set "Serial Wacom Tablet stylus" rotate  cw
    xsetwacom set "Serial Wacom Tablet eraser" rotate cw
    ;;
    right)
    # rotate to normal
    xrandr -o normal
    xsetwacom set "Serial Wacom Tablet stylus" rotate none
    xsetwacom set "Serial Wacom Tablet eraser" rotate none
    ;;
esac
```
Natty's default xf86-input-wacom has cw and ccw reversed.  So if you are using the default you may need to change cw to ccw in the script.

Copy it into the Text Editor (gedit) and save it as say rotate.sh.  Then right click on the file and select Properties then in the Permissions tab check the *Allow executing as a file* box.  That will make the script executable.  Then save it somewhere.  Some folks recommend storing scripts in a bin folder/directory, where bin is short for binary.  Place it in your /home/yourusername directory so /home/yourusername/bin.

Then right click on your Desktop and create a launcher.  In the command box place the path to the script:
```
/home/yourusername/bin/rotate.sh
```
Now double clicking on the launcher should give you rotation.  Drag it into a panel and it will only take a single click.

By the way I'm getting this from the [Rotation HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6274392&postcount=1").

---

### Post by dog-soldier on 2011-07-20
works great thanks.
now when i use it in tablet mode the stylus and pointer are not in sinc. 
when i move the stylus up the pointer goes down and visa versa.

---

### Post by Favux on 2011-07-20
OK, so change cw to ccw in the script.

---

### Post by dog-soldier on 2011-07-20
changed cw to cww and still the same

---

### Post by Favux on 2011-07-20
Hmmm.  That doesn't make sense.  Could you show me what your rotate.sh looks like now?  Unless you used cww instead of ccw?

---

### Post by dog-soldier on 2011-07-20
thats what i did, i used cww instead of ccw.
all is good now thanks a million.

---

### Post by Favux on 2011-07-20
Great!  Glad you can rotate.  :)

---

