---
title: "[SOLVED] Nvidia en8400gs hardy - resolution and other problems"
date: 2008-06-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by electroconvulsive on 2008-06-30
Hi im trying to use an nvidia en 8400gs on ubuntu hardy and am getting all sorts of problems with it. I have been following all sorts of threads concerning this and have come up empty handed and frustrated over this issue.

The facts.

OS: Ubuntu Hardy 8.04 AMD64

Video card: Nvidia En8400 GS

Monitor: AOC 210v 22 inch LCD

The issues: Firstly when I did a full reinstall after the last time I tried this. My screen resolution came up as it is supposed to but as soon as I enabled the restricted driver and restarted the computer the resolution was stuck at 640x480 but the desktop effects were working as expected. Itried a few things including envyng and none of these seemed to work. 

After all of this I am unable to open nvidia-settings it keeps telling me to run nvidia-xconfig as root and restart x (yes I did enable the restricted nvidia driver). This I have tried and the result is exactly the same each time. If I try to remove the nvidia-glx-new package I get the following error```
Removing nvidia-glx-new ...
dpkg-divert: error checking `/usr/lib32/libGL.so.1': No such file or directory
dpkg: error processing nvidia-glx-new (--remove):
 subprocess post-removal script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 nvidia-glx-new
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)
```
When I try to run the screens and graphics application it keeps defaulting my monitor to Plug and Play and gives me a resolution of 800x600. When I go to the Graphics Card tab it keeps defaulting back to "vesa - Generic Vesa compliant cards" Changing over to nv or nvidia does not seem to stick its preferences and it just defaults back to the values mentioned above.

Currently desktop effects aren't working even if I enable the restricted driver. 

My Xserver: It would help a lot if I could actually configure my xserver using dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg however it keeps dropping out at the point where the grasphics are about to start configuring with the message ```
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080630161347
``` (This is pathetic and as far as I am concerned it worked in previous versions of Ubuntu and the sense in replacing it with something that doesnt work is ridiculous)

As far as I can tell nvidia-xconfig has written values to my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file which mind you has been messed with a fair bit by now so here is the output.```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
```

The reason I upgraded from Gutsy (fresh install) in the first place (which incidentally worked straight off the bat) was to get my sound card recognized as it has miraculously done.

But anyway I need to get my video working now so I hope that with the information I have provided someone may be able to help me iron this issue out.

As usual all help is appreciated.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-30
Heres a guide I wrote, 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6)

this is how I install all of my Nvidia drivers, the 8400m GS being one of them, here on this very laptop.

I am a lazy man, so I promise I didn't type any steps that weren't needed, don't skip steps and you'll be golden.

GL let us know how it works out.

---

### Post by electroconvulsive on 2008-06-30
Thanks starcannon your guide was one of the first things I tried. It failed miserably.
1.couldnt get a resolution over 1024x768
2.could not navigate to other workspaces
3.GDM & Nautilus hated it.

I ran the nvidia uninstaller afterwards and it returned some errors. I then installed ia32libs and autoremove to get rid of the propietry drivers properly.

Ive got nvidia-glx-new installed again but it now tells me there is no restricted drivers on the system.

If you have any ideas that involve fixing the problem with the restricted driver I'm glad to hear about it but I dont think I will try the nvidia.com driver again. Ive never had good experiences with it. Well not under Hardy anyway.

---

### Post by shonwein on 2008-06-30
I'm having a similar problem.
Can't get a resolution over 640*480. The solution was to uninstall the drivers and forget the effects. No driver, no effects, no problem.

The ubuntu doesn't even recognize a hardware installed, even if it is an onboard nvidia nforce chipset.

---

### Post by electroconvulsive on 2008-07-01
If its happening to a lot of people I wonder if anyone has filed a bug over this. If I knew how I probably would. The Ubuntu developers should know about it. To be frank this is a massive and gaping bug considering this is an LTS version as well. 

Well where I am at now is about where you are. Full resolution but no desktop effects. With a brand new Nvidia card too. You'd think this would have been fixed before the general release. I hope there is a fix for this soon, as its been almost 3 months now since the release.  But still I might persevere with it so any suggestions are still welcome.

---

### Post by tatermonkey on 2008-07-02
I am having the same problem with my geforce 7300 GT. I used the restricted driver manager and rebooted but got a black screen when X started. I edited the Xorg file and placed "nvidia" in the driver section and got the same thing. I tried using envy and got the same. nvidia-xconfig does the same. All I can do is run the "nv" driver right now. It at least gives me my 1680x1050 resolution to make it tolerable until I can find a fix.

---

### Post by hasanilingi on 2008-07-02
You can look at this topic the sama problem and as i understood they have found a solution for them.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=660007](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=660007)

---

### Post by electroconvulsive on 2008-07-06
I Do Not know why but it is all working well for me. I saw all sorts of X11 updates in a recent update so I tried again and now it is working. 

This is how I did it.

ia32-libs - this package after it was installed stopped all of the uninstall errors I was getting with the restricted driver. I was able to uninstall it fully. I read it in another thread thst this guy used these libraries to get his nvidia card to work.

In the terminal type```
sudo apt-get install -y ia32-libs
```

The updates I received around the beginning of July had plenty of X11 and nvidia components in it is I think it was one of the major factors in getting things to work.So either use the update manager to get them or go to the terminal and type ```
sudo apt-get update
``` and then ```
sudo apt-get upgrade -y
```
3. Removed what drivers i've already tried. For resrticted drivers go to the terminal and type ```
 sudo apt-get uninstall -y nvidia-glx-new
``` and then ```
sudo apt-get autoremove -y
``` for the envy drivers in the terminal type ```
sudo envy --uninstall-all
``` and then```
sudo dpkg -P envy
``` and for the nvidia driver from the nvidia site type```
sudo nvidia-installer --uninstall
```

I installed envyng again```
sudo apt-get install -y envyng
```

I got envy to install the nvidia driver using autodetect. From there on in I edited my xorg.conf file to include my moitor's desired resolution in the screen section.```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1440x900@60"	"1280x768@60" "1024x768@60"
 	"800x600@60"	"1024x768@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
```
Then I went to the nvidia settings control panel and set my resolution to 1440x900. But every time I logged in after that the resolution would go back to 1024x768. So finally I went into the screen resolution control panel and set the resolution there and after that everything has seemed to work properly.

---

### Post by Francewhoa on 2009-05-23
[Click here for ***      HOWTO: Install video card Asus EN8400GS Silent on Ubuntu 8.0.4 Desktop***]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1164800")

---

