---
title: "17.10 Wireless printer suddenly &quot;not found&quot; but prints page after restart"
date: 2018-02-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by k28 on 2018-02-08
i installed the drives etc with this tutorial and it worked. suddenly it stopped working:

after sometime a problem occured. when i want to print something, ubuntu sais that it can not locate the printer. when i press print it does nothing but gives me an error: device not found. however when i restart ubuntu the page gets printed imidietly. 


what could be the problem?

---

### Post by kc1di on 2018-02-09
Gives us some info what printer what machine.  Usually I've found that wireless printing stops if you are using DHCP on the network and add or take away a devise. and DHCP assigns new IP address to the printer.  Best way to avoid that is to set a static IP for your printer with a high enough number so it will not interfere with other devises. 
good luck.

---

### Post by k28 on 2018-02-21
done that now. lets see if it resolves the problem.

its a brother dcp 7055w and a ubuntu 17.10 machine.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2018-02-21
*Thread moved to **Hardware**.*

---

### Post by k28 on 2018-02-23
unfortunatly the error still persists. any other suggestion?

---

### Post by pdc on 2018-02-23
I wonder how you "set up" the printer; 

one generally needs two steps;

1) install drivers
2) register the printer with lpadmin ( the admin for linux printing on the computer ..)

Brother do provide an install script; (as does Canon); so the install script does 1) and then 2);

if you copies this command ```
dpkg -l dcp7055*
```  it is using debian package manager (dpkg) to LIST all the entries that it has for things beginning > dcp7055 so we can see if the drivers are there; 

so one may not need the install script; (that automates things ..)

________

there should be an lpr and a cups; if so, then if one went to the PRINTERS folder; deleted the existing entry; went to the NEW button; and asked the computer to look around; if the printer is happily talking to the router, it should be found ... and should .. be configurable ..

---

### Post by k28 on 2018-02-25
i followed this tutorial:

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c3oT2iT4pIY&t=23s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c3oT2iT4pIY&t=23s)

and it worked in 16.10 and 17.10 till its not. i forgot to mention that scanning works immidiatly. also woth mentioning the last two prints took "only"  3 minutes to begin.

the output:

k28@k28-Lenovo-ideapad-110-17IKB:~$ dpkg -l dcp7055
dpkg-query: Kein Paket gefunden, das auf dcp7055 passt

edit: next print again didnt print till a reboot.

---

