---
title: "[10.04 Lucid Lynx] Multi media keys on HP dv6000(Intel) stop working."
date: 2010-05-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Grizzle on 2010-05-14
Hello,

I have been using Ubuntu since 7.04, but recently upgraded to 10.04. When I first log in all the media keys(Volume, mute, play, pause etc.) work fine. Then after a short time they stop working completely. I am clueless as to what is causing the problem as the amount of time is somewhat random. 

In all previous incarnations of Ubuntu I have not experienced this problem. I have done some searching on the forums and launchpad to no avail. 

Does anybody have a clue as to where to start looking for solutions? What process/program handles these keys?

---

### Post by dsamp on 2010-05-14
Exact same issue occurred to me with my dv6000. I'm still looking for resources for fixing it. If I find anything out I'll update this thread.

---

### Post by dsamp on 2010-05-14
Following [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hotkeys/Troubleshooting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hotkeys/Troubleshooting)

xev showed the keypresses are giving the correct XF86Audio code.

--

So I finally stopped trying to overthink things. I was able to get the media keys working again by going to "System -> Keyboard Shortcuts" and then under the sound section just redefining all the associated keys by pressing the appropriate media key. Even though they were already set right I'm assuming some sort of config file needed to be re-written. You may have to restart 'gnome-settings-daemon' but I'm not sure.

---

### Post by Grizzle on 2010-05-14
Thank you very much for the link. At the moment the keys are working as I have just booted up my laptop. If they stop again at least I will have a tool to check to see if the events are being recognised.

---

### Post by Grizzle on 2010-05-14
As expected the keys stopped working. Tried using xev to see if the key presses were being recognised and they don't seem to be sending any events at all.

---

### Post by geneiros on 2010-07-30
Hi there,

i have a HP DV9285 and this happens to me as well...

when this happens i cannot turn off the computer when shutdown.

this also accurs in the key combination FN+(volume up, screen brightness, etç)...

does anyone found the problem for this??

i'm trying but i cannot find anything...

---

