---
title: "Hardy Heron Freezes on my laptop :("
date: 2008-05-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pep_dj on 2008-05-02
Hello.

I was using Ubuntu 7.10 and upgraded to 8.04. After reboot, I typed login and password and after 5 or 10 seconds nothing worked except mouse (screen was completely frozen). I reboot (with power button) and freezes again...

I downloaded installation cd and tried to re-install it, but installation freezes too... After 2 or 3 tries I started installation with noacpi option and installation was succefully completed. But after login freezes again!!.

I reinstalled it with alternate cd, but nothing changes :(

Windows XP and Ubuntu 7.10 worked fine, but 8.04 doesn't. 

My laptop is Toshiba M30X 166 (has an ATI Radeon Mobility 9700)... anybody can help me please?

---

### Post by scottuss on 2008-05-02
I know this doesn't help much, but I think it's to do with your graphics chip. My laptop does something very similar and looking around everything points to it being the graphics. The only thing I can suggest is to boot into recovery mode, and on a command line download and install the ATI drivers.

This may help:

[p://wiki.linuxquestions.org/wiki/Installing_ATI_drivers]("p://wiki.linuxquestions.org/wiki/Installing_ATI_drivers")

It looks scary but it's not so bad! :)

---

### Post by pep_dj on 2008-05-03
I tried installing ATI propietary drivers but I had no luck :( Freezes again, and again, and again.... :(

---

### Post by mavl4219 on 2008-05-05
The same problem for me. 

Few seconds after boot, my laptop freezes. 
There is also some difference in the Restricted Drivers - different graphics card driver than in 7.10 and there is no firmware for broadcom 43xx.

My laptop is ASUS A7D.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by elgaelo on 2008-05-05
Hi guys,

Same problem on Toshiba Satellite due to the graphics card (ATI Radeon 9600). I solved it out using the "graphic safe mode" (F4 for installation mode before starting).

Then, once you are logged in, the system would ask you for installing restricted drivers (ATI drivers).

Hope that will help.
Cheers from Spain!

---

### Post by pep_dj on 2008-05-05
Thanks elgaelo ( yo también soy de España! :-P )

When ubuntu is installed in safe graphics mode, and then you install restricted drivers... ubuntu is working correctly?... compiz??

---

### Post by elgaelo on 2008-05-05
In terms of graphic card, it does work well (if compiz is the extra animated window system, it also does).

But I'm having a serious and clumsy issue with the touchpad.. don't know why but I need to have a usb mouse plugged-in otherwise the system hangs. There's a very annoying thing and I'll post a new thread in case sb has dealt with it.

---

### Post by pep_dj on 2008-05-05
Thanks, I'll try it and I'll post the result.

---

### Post by pep_dj on 2008-05-06
I installed in safe graphics mode and installed ok, but resolution was not ok and compiz doesn't work, so I installed envyng to automatically install ATI drivers. envyng asked me to reboot, and when rebooted pc freezes again....... :(

---

### Post by elgaelo on 2008-05-06
Just in case I could help you... Would you please post your xorg.conf file? This is my default xorg.conf file generated by the xserver when booting on safe graphics mode.

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```

This allows me to login and set, later on, the restricted ATI driver enabling compiz.

Try it out!

---

### Post by ajjain on 2008-05-06
I've had the exact same issue with a new 8.04 install on a USB memory stick, running on a Thinkpad T60.

I reinstalled multiple times, and tried a bunch of different "fixes", most of whiched involved changing driver or xorg settings, but none of it worked.  I finally stumbled on this, after I noticed that I had the same log output in /var/log/dmesg as described in this thread-

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/218434](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/218434)

Bottom line is, for me at least, the problem has been that gnome-keyring-daemon is crashing on login.  I haven't yet gotten around to trying the fix for that they describe there, but so far the workaround works for me!

good luck,
aJ

---

### Post by Keba on 2008-05-08
Hi
My acer TravelMate220 is doing something similar.
I can login, launch pidgin and that synergy gui, but after about 30-40sec the laptop freezes. Unresponsive, clock frozen and nothing  working except rebooting, followed by the same thing again.
Not really helpful I know, but thought I'd post anyway.

I just upgraded and after the reboot, this happened. I haven't tried fixing it yet, as I'm not sure the fixes apply to me.

Keba

---

### Post by oraldlight on 2008-05-08
Took me forever to get my gateway(ati x600) sorted out with similar problems under Gutsy. Once I realized it was NOAPM to cure display issues, all was fine until the upgrade to Hardy Heron. now when the screensaver kicks in - I loose ability to use X and must hard -reboot.

Look at boot options like NOAPIC, NOAPM, and the likes...

---

### Post by porksome on 2008-05-09
Having the same problem as elgaelo, using Toshiba M30X with ATI Radeon Mobility M10.

Only way I can use Hardy is if I keep an external usb mouse plugged in. Have tried numerous fixes to allow just the touchpad but all to no avail.

:-(

---

### Post by mamoute on 2008-05-09
Hi, 
I won't help, but I need help also :S
I have exactly the same probleme than elgaelo and porksome. ie: using my touchpad makes Hardy freeze if no external mouse is connected... really strange!
I have an ATI9700 and synaptic touchpad.

my /etc/X11/xorg.conf is the same than elgaelo for the touchpad part.

thanks!

---

### Post by Pord on 2008-05-10
Im having this trouble with my acer aspire 2020 laptop with it randomly freezing.

I can boot from CD in safe graphics mode but that just means am using VESA drivers and cannot use ati drivers as it locks up again

---

### Post by bawbag31 on 2008-05-11
Hardy Heron also locks on my ACER TravelMate 8006LMi ATI Mobility Radeon 9600.  Had to install using Safe Graphics Mode.  Works well using VESA driver, but ati/radeon or fglrx makes the laptop freeze either at or just after login screen.  7.10 worked fine with radeon driver and compiz.  Please help!
Thanks, phil.

---

### Post by porksome on 2008-05-12
OK. Have done some more work on this (and a lot of reboots!!!!!).

Scenarios:
**_Radeon (free driver)_**
- No external mouse, laptop hardlocks when logging in (effects on) or running a 3d app (effects off)
- External mouse, everything works fine
- No external mouse, "acpi=off" as kernel option, no hardlocks but no battery reported (effectively useless!)

**_Fglrx (ATI prop driver)_**
- No external mouse, laptop hardlocks when logging in (effects on) or running a 3d app (effects off)
- External mouse, everything works fine
- No external mouse, "acpi=off" as kernel option, no hardlocks but no battery reported (effectively useless!)

Running ubuntu hardy on Toshiba [M30X-129]("http://uk.computers.toshiba-europe.com/cgi-bin/ToshibaCSG/jsp/SUPPORTSECTION/discontinuedProductPage.do?PRODUCT_ID=98795&DISC_MODEL=1&service=UK"), ATI Mobility 9600 M10, xorg the same as elgaelo, memory upgraded to 2GB.

Not been able to use 3d without an external mouse is a nightmare. Effects aside, no gaming or google earth is possible.

Can post error logs if needed but will need to know which ones are useful.

---

### Post by bawbag31 on 2008-05-12
Thanks for the insight, porksome.

I read your post and tried again but with an external mouse plugged in.  Everything works perfectly - 3d, compiz - using envy and fglrx.  Very strange.  It's got me baffled, but I'm now confident of a workaround/fix for this.

Could it be a device conflict?

Thanks
Phil

---

### Post by Pord on 2008-05-13
bumping in hope of a fix

---

### Post by pep_dj on 2008-05-13
Thanks a lot porksome!!

I'll test my laptop with an external mouse plugged. Hope somebody releases a patch to fix it.

---

### Post by porksome on 2008-05-13
> **bawbag31 said:**
> Thanks for the insight, porksome.

I read your post and tried again but with an external mouse plugged in.  Everything works perfectly - 3d, compiz - using envy and fglrx.  Very strange.  It's got me baffled, but I'm now confident of a workaround/fix for this.

Could it be a device conflict?

Thanks
Phil


Phil

My initial thoughts were a device conflict. An awful lot of my devices seem to sit on IRQ11, including the graphics card and the yenta socket (which I believe provides the bus to the keyboard, touchpad etc).

Not sure how to go about fixing this. Is there anyway I can force devices to use specific IRQ's - eg have the graphics card on it's own dedicated IRQ. Don't know enough about how IRQ are assigned to know where to start fixing it.

Willing to try anything as this problem first appeared with me in Gutsy. Thought about compiling my own kernel but since I don't know where the problem lies it seems a bit pointless at the moment.

Thanks
Andy

:confused:

---

### Post by porksome on 2008-05-13
Think I've made a little progress. Installed Feisty kernel (2.6.20) and noticed a difference in the dmesg output.

The hardy dmesg reports:
[   16.245784] Clocksource tsc unstable (delta = -77765473 ns)
[   16.249777] Time: acpi_pm clocksource has been installed.

The feisty kernel reports:
[   35.351270] Time: tsc clocksource has been installed.

Don't know what the unstable clock source means but it's not there in Feisty or in Hardy when I boot with an external mouse attached - and there's no hangs in those two scenario's.

Think this is definitely linked is reckon but don't know how to go about tracing the problem from here.

**[COLOR="Lime"]Anybody know how to take it forward???[/COLOR]**

Cheers in advance
Andy

:-)

---

### Post by porksome on 2008-05-15
I may have a solution for this problem.

I found this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=784653&highlight=highres%3Doff+nohz%3Doff&page=2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=784653&highlight=highres%3Doff+nohz%3Doff&page=2") which lead me to add the following options to my kernel boot options in  /boot/grub/menu.lst:

[SIZE="4"]**highres=off nohz=off irqpoll**[/SIZE]

I testing my system with and without external mouse and with both OSS and Proprietry drivers. I left 2 instances of fgl_gears running on separate workspaces and a DVD playing (on repeat) on a fully compiz enabled gnome Hardy desktop. 6 hours later and the system was still up and running.

I appears to me that the problem is linked to the new tickless kernel option, which apparently doesn't like my laptop.

Hope this helps somebody else as well.

Please can somebody confirm this works on a system other than mine.

Thanks
Andy


Toshiba M30X
Centrino 1.7, 2GB memory, ATI Radeon Mobility 9600 M10
Ubuntu Hardy

---

### Post by bawbag31 on 2008-05-15
I switched back to 7.10, as I couldn't get VirtualBox running on 8.04.  I'll still give it a try, though.  The radeon driver works great on 7.10, but the fglrx driver caused the freeze without an external mouse again.  I'll do some tests and get back to you.
Cheers, porksome!

---

### Post by bawbag31 on 2008-05-16
OK, these results just in ...

I first tried irqpoll and it worked! No freezing with the fglrx driver, so I stopped at that.  Don't know if the other settings make any difference - remember, I am using 7.10 again now - you may still need them with 8.04.

Cheers

Phil

---

### Post by mamoute on 2008-05-18
Olà, 
I still have my probleme of freezing with ubuntu8.04 even after changing  my kernel boot options. I also tested the both type of drivers for my ATI9700 (prop and free). It's more or less the same.
As an external mouse plugged-in is a kind of "solution" :S (in this situation I also can use my touchpad), maybe is it possible to create a fake external mouse fot the OS? 
Even no one is plugged in, it will works as if there were one. Then the touchpad will be available!
But I'm really beginer in Linux and I have no idea how to do it! If someone knows....

best regards

---

### Post by trondhuso on 2008-05-18
Hi Porksome,
Could you post the menu.lst?

---

### Post by porksome on 2008-05-20
> **trondhuso said:**
> Hi Porksome,
Could you post the menu.lst?

Here's the line for my kernel. Hope it helps:

title		Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic (on /dev/sda2)
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=22c9d3b1-6d14-4160-8366-ffb31b2f7549 ro quiet splash highres=off nohz=off irqpoll 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
savedefault
boot

My hardy system is rock solid now.

:)

---

### Post by elgaelo on 2008-05-21
And... **it's working now adding the options you pointed**, porksome. Many thanks!!

Just one thing, in case you guys had the same problem. I realize that when running on low battery, Hardy stops playing sound and video is in really slow motion.. Is that a tunable feature? Could I customize this behavior?

Good night ;-)

---

### Post by sebos69 on 2008-05-21
Hi!

I have similar freezes with the same toshiba M30x laptop. I solved it by using the open source driver, with the following option in my xorg.conf:


```
	Option		"AGPMode"	"1"
```

it might help you as well.

---

### Post by mamoute on 2008-05-22
thanks a lot porksome it also works for me!! :D

---

### Post by jasonofx on 2008-05-22
> **porksome said:**
> Here's the line for my kernel. Hope it helps:

title		Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic (on /dev/sda2)
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=22c9d3b1-6d14-4160-8366-ffb31b2f7549 ro quiet splash highres=off nohz=off irqpoll 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
savedefault
boot

My hardy system is rock solid now.

:)

Can one of you tell me exactly what file to put this in and what folder it's in? Thanks.

---

### Post by porksome on 2008-05-22
look in:

/boot/grub/menu.lst

There is a whole bunch of comment at the beginning of the file DON'T TOUCH THEM unless you know what you are doing. You should find the above line towards end of the file. Ubuntu I believe installs 3 entries for each kernel. The ones with 'recovery mode' and 'memtest' in are non gui. You may want to boot to the recovery option to edit it if you are having problems with the gui (Gnome, KDE etc).

You MUST edit the file as root. eg sudo nano /boot/grub/menu.lst

I prefer nano but use whichever text editor is your preference.


Been using linux exclusively for about 1 year now. First time I have solved something myself. Feeling pretty pleased I was able to help some other people as well.

:-)

---

### Post by jrev on 2008-05-24
Hi,
Did you try to copy the xorg.conf file of the previous version launched from the CD live ?
I pasted it from feisty to Hardy and my screen which couldn't show more than 800x600 jumped to 1024x768 immediatly :)

---

### Post by exidez on 2008-05-31
this isn't solving my problem at all.
There is no effect if i plug the usb mouse in or not. I could run avi movies using VLC on a fresh boot before but today when i opened up terminal to update my wireless card drivers it would freeze. Now it would freeze in less than a minute of starting.

I have an LG LS55 Laptop with ATI Mobility Radeon X300 Graphics card. I dont know what other information you request but just ask..
This is giving me the shits.
I cannot enter more that one command in the terminal before it freezes!!

---

### Post by fgcl2k on 2008-06-02
> **sebos69 said:**
> Hi!

I have similar freezes with the same toshiba M30x laptop. I solved it by using the open source driver, with the following option in my xorg.conf:


```
	Option		"AGPMode"	"1"
```

it might help you as well.


This solved the problem with the USB mouse on my Toshiba M30X. No more freezes (yet).

Thanks!

fgcl2k

---

### Post by bvanaerde on 2008-06-25
I've got about the same problem. The PC freezes a few seconds after having logged in. I quickly have to reboot, as the laptop gets quite hot after a couple of minutes (the cooling fan stopped).

But... for some reason this is only the case when I'm **not connected to my network** (wired connection).

I have added> highres=off nohz=off irqpoll to the kernel boot options, which fixed the error.
I don't know what these options do... can anybody enlighten me?

Also, now that I have added these options, the PC can't shutdown properly.
This is the error message:
> Unable to iterate IDE devices: No such file or directory
I found some workarounds for this on the forum, but I think it's kind of weird that I have to manually add those settings, as everything worked out of the box with Ubuntu 7.10.

---

### Post by Adler on 2008-07-13
Hi All,

I've read the thread here because I'm having the same problem on my COMPAQ Presario V6000 Notebook. 

The last post here was two weeks ago. Is there a final solution? BTW, I'm running Hardy 64-bit, and have NVIDIA drivers.

This is a *nasty* little bug to say the least.

Thanks in advance for any replies.

Best Regards,

Adler

---

### Post by elgaelo on 2008-07-13
For me, it was ok adding > highres=off nohz=off irqpoll  to the menu.lst file. I didn't do any further research. Once it's working, it's all good.

Cheers,
Gaël

---

### Post by Adler on 2008-07-13
elgaelo,

Thanks for that. Where did you make the changes?

And will it hold-up after a kernel up-date?

Again thanks for your post.

Best Regards,

Adler

---

### Post by elgaelo on 2008-07-13
Try to read this post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5005991&postcount=29](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5005991&postcount=29) and around...

Good luck!

---

### Post by Adler on 2008-07-13
elgaelo,

Thanks - I don't think that I want to go there.

As it stands Ubuntu is not usable / reliable on my Notebook, there needs to be an up-date out there. This is a *Bug*, everything worked well before the latest Ubuntu or Linux Mint.

Thanks again, and looking for further help.

Best Regards,

Adler

---

### Post by Odrodzona-Sarmacja on 2008-07-14
My freezes occured started in april, when I was doing an update of software on my Fiesty, so these freezes came during april. Since then I went over to Hardy and I am waiting for official patch to this issue during next 2 years.

The packages that cause the freeze is called "Simple DirectMedia Layer" and is named "libsdl1.2debian" and "libsdl1.2image". The freeze affects only keyboard, mouse, screen and sound and leaves everything else running and working just fine despite the freeze. It affects all Linux games (not only 3d games but also even these 2d), apps using 3d rendering and opengl graphics and all apps like firefox using graphic through python engine, which uses SDML in its turn.

Installing older version of "libsdl1.2debian" and "libsdl1.2image" caused freezes to be even more fierce and happening even more often and quicker.

Also used by SDML directly for graphic is package "libpng12-0", which causes freezes on its own and is a security risk on its own in versions prior to 1.2.27. I would sugest making "libpng12-0" a high priority patch for Hardy due these reasons. However installing "libpng12-0" in version 1.2.27 doesn't remove freezes.

My solution to avoid freezes was a removal of Network Manager and do stuff offline. Without Network-Manager and being offline I have no freezes. Every time I connect to internet I get unfortunately freezes again.

I use VIA motherboard and these mobo are not generally good for Linux and therefore it may be a reason I have these freezes at all. I strongly suspect that networking in general has essential part in causing these freezes and must therefore somehow be on collision with SDML software.

---

### Post by Adler on 2008-07-14
Odrodzona-Sarmacja,

Thanks for the detailed explanation of your issues.

I have just discovered that if I am watching a video then try to go onto the Internet I run into a freeze of my system.

I hope that some one will come up with a patch here. 

Best Regards,

Adler

---

### Post by Odrodzona-Sarmacja on 2008-07-14
Also I did right now a bug report at
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/117651/](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/117651/)
I hope I did this bug report in its right place.

---

### Post by Adler on 2008-07-14
Odrodzona-Sarmacja,

I've done bug reports before also - those old ATI drivers were really bad, and it took months, and months to get something working.

I think that it will take a long time to get this issue, that we are both having, resolved. 

Best Regards,

Adler

---

### Post by Odrodzona-Sarmacja on 2008-07-14
I am dumping VIA motherboard for ASUS one. I think this should clear this freezing issue I hope. VIA motherboard generally sucks for Linux.

PS.

1. "highres=off nohz=off irqpoll" method prolongs time before crash happens, but it doesn't solve it.

but also I know that

2. People with more memory on their graphic cards and using binary drivers experience much less frequently freezes then with less memory on their graphic cards. AND people on open driver experience freezes even more often.

3. "Option "AGPMode" "1" " is not helping against freezes at all.

---

### Post by Odrodzona-Sarmacja on 2008-07-15
Also I forgot to mention, but disabling all cashing options for my CPU in BIOS (I did that for memtest+, as I suspected these freezes at first be caused by memory) did make my Xubuntu work little slower, but crashes became even more sporadic alike "highres=off nohz=off irqpoll" method does and purging network-manager method does too (also having 512mb grapphic card instead 128mb also does it, but I didn't test it, as it was reported by others) and I think the effects of all these methods might be adding up for making freezes happen even much less frequently.

However!
I just recalled that someone wrote here in this forum to me that he installed some "berkelay" networking system (or something sounding like that) in place of the Ubuntu networking system and that kept his CPU use constantly over 50%, but removed totally freezes from his computer. I didn't try it and keeping CPU usage constantly over 50% does not sound like fun to me either. But worth mentioning I think.

---

### Post by nknico on 2008-07-24
I have the same problem.

When my external mouse is connected on my laptop, it freezes within 15 min.

If not connected, everything is ok. The computer works during hours and hours without any problem.

This problem is clearly linked with external devices !!!

I'll test the "highres=off nohz=off irqpoll" solution.

---

### Post by Adler on 2008-07-24
Hi All,

I've resolved the issue by going to OpenSuSE 11.0. Everything from Compiz-Fusion to all my apps run very well. And, I do run a lot of apps.

The Notebook that I run uses a USB WiFi device. All my peripherals e.g. Seagate 300Gb drive, and Lite-On CD / DVD burner work well.

I've never had any issues like this before running Ubuntu or Linux Mint.

Regards,

Adler

---

### Post by nknico on 2008-07-25
Ho yes thank, I could install open suse...or buy an other computer too...

It not a solution !!

I try the highres=off nohz=off irqpoll and it does change anything. After 15 min the computer freezes completly !!

---

### Post by addeboy on 2008-08-20
**highres=off nohz=off irqpoll ** solved my problem too, with random freezes on MSI MegaBook M670 with xubuntu and ubuntu 8.04.1.

First I thought it's from nvidia proprietary drivers, tried with older versions, tried without them, and had the same result. Also, tried the rt kernel, as someone suggested in other thread, but I had no luck. So it seems this was the lucky shot for me. Thanks.

---

### Post by rad_sci_guy on 2008-08-26
I have a thinkpad x30  that was constantly freezing up with Hardy.  I've been searching for 4 months for a solution.  the highres=off nohz=off irqpoll has finally stopped the freezing as my computer has been freeze free for the last 3 days after applying this fix.

---

### Post by Macker on 2008-09-04
hello, i have an IBM X30 also, and i have this issue, i am dying to try the "highres=off nohz=off irqpoll" fix, but can someone please put it in plain english for me? i am only learning ubuntu/ linux slowely.. i need some assistance with this..

cheers :D

---

### Post by rad_sci_guy on 2008-09-05
> **Macker said:**
> hello, i have an IBM X30 also, and i have this issue, i am dying to try the "highres=off nohz=off irqpoll" fix, but can someone please put it in plain english for me? i am only learning ubuntu/ linux slowely.. i need some assistance with this..

cheers :D

Here's how I did it.

In a terminal window you want to type:

sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

and enter your password.

In the file that opens up you'll need to scroll down to the section that lists the kernels that can be booted up.  In my menu.lst file that section is right at the bottom of the file and looks like this:

## ## End Default Options ## ##

title	       Ubuntu 8.04.01, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root	       (hd0,0)
kernel	       /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=(long serial number) ro quiet splash[COLOR="Red"] highres=off nohz=off irqpoll[/COLOR]
initrd 	       /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic


The first kernel that's listed is the one that's loaded by default (usually the latest linux kernel).  On that kernel line after splash you insert "highres=off nohz=off irqpoll"

Save and exit.

The next time you restart the computer the kernel will run with the fix.  My system has been stable ever since

---

### Post by Macker on 2008-09-05
Thanks so much mate, i will try this when i get home from work, everything else on this distro is working 100% on my x30 so with this fix i will be a happy camper :) the x30 is a nice little badboy for travelling etc so i wanted to make sure my ubuntu was working ok with it :D

cheers again

---

### Post by Macker on 2008-09-21
just a quick update, i did this fix/workaround on my x30 and it has been working perfect now for 2 weeks!!! cheers lads

---

### Post by simon_w on 2008-10-17
+1 for adding the "highres=off nohz=off irqpoll" kernel options.  My boss's ThinkPad X30 is stable for the first time with Ubuntu.

I just have one thing to add:  if you manually apply these kernel options as described in rad_sci_guy's post, you will have to go back and do it again any time grub is updated for any reason - in particular, when there are kernel updates.

Look a bit above that section in the menu.lst, for some like this:

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=[your HD UUID here] ro


Don't change the commenting or anything, just add the kernel options to the end of this line, eg.

# kopt=root=UUID=[your HD UUID here] ro highres=off nohz=off irqpoll

Then do `sudo update-grub` and the menu.lst will be recreated with those options against every linux grub entry.  In the future, when new kernels are added, they'll pick up these options too.

Hope that helps a little.  Thanks to porksome for providing the answer!

Simon

---

### Post by bvanaerde on 2008-10-19
That's a good solution, simon_w, thanks!
Are there any known disadvantages with the *highres=off nohz=off irqpoll* addition?

---

### Post by bvanaerde on 2008-11-25
update: the same problem occurs in Ibex.

---

### Post by Adler on 2008-11-25
> update: the same problem occurs in Ibex.

bvanaerde,

Thanks for the report. It'll keep me from wasting some time.

Adler

---

### Post by goatroapr on 2008-11-28
Hello. First day on the linux forum here. I have been having this problem since I installed Hardy 3 months.  Just applied the corrections rad_sci_guy and simon suggested. From what I read, it has helped. I will keep you informed in a few weeks of any further progress.  Thanks!!

---

### Post by ben_o_it on 2009-03-22
Hi, this thread is quite old but I think I found a solution to my own freezes that may help someone else: I installed the **linux realtime kernel**.
I'm not 100% sure of this solution since I've tried several things, but I believe it for... 90% ;).

I'm under Ubuntu Hardy Heron 8.0.4 and I had full freezes of my system (I had to hard reset each time). It happened when I was using several softs simultaneously (for instance, kaffeine for tv with an usb dvb tnt tuner + firefox for internet browsing).

Inspired from other forums, I installed the realtime kernel corresponding to the default one (respectively: "Ubuntu 8.04.2, kernel 2.6.24-23-**rt**" and "Ubuntu 8.04.2, kernel 2.6.24-23-**generic**") and it solved my problem: no more full freezes; when some malfunction happens I'm still able to log in a terminal session or to reset the gdm.

FYI, I installed it through synaptic by selecting the "linux-rt" package (a priori, since I installed some others for my tests, but I think it's this one which installed the rt kernel). Then the RT kernel appeared in the GRUB menu and now I boot on it by default.

Hope this can help someone...

*If some expert can explain why it works or why it could be a fake solution, you're welcome...*

---

### Post by bvanaerde on 2009-03-23
The freeze problem doesn't occur anymore in a default installation of Jaunty. Keep in mind that this is still an alpha version.
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/jaunty/alpha-6/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/jaunty/alpha-6/)

---

### Post by Adler on 2009-03-23
Hi All,

The problem with running started with the download. I use K3b to burn cds / dvds. Neither Ubuntu / Linux Mint passed the process of verifying data.

Both Fedora and openSuSE did.

I went with openSuSE.

Ubuntu - for me - has never been an easy install on my laptop. And, I have good labtop. Dual core AMD - 2.2 GHZ, 2 Gb RAM. I run with a hi-speed cable connection.

Changing distros will be a problem until I can get all the data burned during the process.

---

### Post by KevNice on 2009-03-31
Hi I am having a similar problem, though not quite what others are experiencing.

Hardy occasionally freezes, but it seems completely random. Rarely, it will freeze right at startup. Sometimes it freezes while I am watching movies on Totem. But lately, I was not running any programs, I just left my laptop on and closed the lid on it, came back a few hours later and the system wasn't responding.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Adler on 2009-03-31
Hi All,

I never got Hardy Heron going on my notebook. I'll hang back and see what Jaunty brings.

The funny thing about Ubuntu is the different names / versions numbers.

I've never been able to keep them straight. LOL!

---

### Post by excentris on 2009-10-18
> highres=off nohz=off irqpoll

That solved the problem for me as well. Thanks!

---

