---
title: "8.04 problems on Gateway laptop"
date: 2008-07-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Tomlin on 2008-07-22
Is it just me (and this laptop) or is 8.04 very BUGGY?

Since installing 1 week ago, the battery monitoring icon that was installed into the top panel has disappeared and I don't know how to get it back (and "power management" under preferences) ALWAYS indicates AC power, even when unplugged!

The "wireless network connection" icon has jumped from the top panel to the bottom.

And, when trying to change some icons for apps in either panel (under "properties"), even though I choose a specific icon, a different icon is displayed.

What's going on?? :confused:

Should I try 7.10 instead?

TIA

Tomlin

---

### Post by gila_monster on 2008-07-22
Which Gateway laptop are you using? I am using a 4525GZ, and I've had a lot of success in getting things to work with it.

That said, I have noticed that my battery monitor icon isn't always the most reliable. If I plug in the lappy while on battery power, the icon doesn't change to indicate AC power. A minor annoyance to me, but still.

Not sure why your icons might have changed panels.

---

### Post by Tomlin on 2008-07-24
I'm using a 400VTX. It was given to me, so I can't complain too much. I installed 7.10 over 8.04 and things are a little better, but I'm not happy with the touchpad. I've run gsynaptics, to tweak the scrolling and tapping, but it isn't consistent. It either takes 2 (or 3) taps to activate a button, or I activate something accidentally while scrolling across a button, or accidentally highlight an entire section of text while scrolling across a page.  :confused:

7.10 has worked fine on my desktop machine, but I think I'll stick with windoze on the laptop.

---

