---
title: "2.5&quot; HDD power cycles during testing"
date: 2008-06-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Xyem on 2008-06-14
I am planning on putting a 20GB 2.5" HDD in an enclosure. I wanted to make sure it all works fine so I have put it in the enclosure and am running a 'badblocks' test on it through QEMU, using the gparted LiveCD.

After a while it starts to cycle its power ( it makes a distinct whizzing noise when it goes down ) every few seconds and QEMU crashes. My 6GB HDD, that I did the exact same thing with, does not exhibit the same behaviour ( no bad blocks either :) ).

Could this be an indication that the drive will ( or has ) failed?

---

### Post by thideras on 2008-06-14
That is one sign of a bad/dying drive.  Can you get the S.M.A.R.T. data from it?  It should give a clearer answer as to what is going on.

---

### Post by Xyem on 2008-06-14
I don't think this drive supports SMART and if it does, I think it may be broken.

'smartctl -a /dev/sdd' complains about responses being too short and 'smartctl -c /dev/sdd' returns nothing at all.

---

### Post by thideras on 2008-06-14
Most external drive enclosures do not pass S.M.A.R.T. data.  You would have to install it in a computer.  My guess is that the drive is PATA based, you would have to get a converter so that you could plug it into a computer internally.  If it is SATA, you can plug it in without a converter.

From the information that you have given, I would say it is a high possibility that it has failed.

---

### Post by lswb on 2008-06-15
Is this a USB enclosure? It's possible that your USB port does not supply enough power for the 20GB drive. How old is the computer and is it USB 1.1 or 2.0? The USB specifications for available power output should be adequate to power a laptop hard drive, but some older systems unfortunately, and maybe some newer ones, do not meet the spec on power.

---

### Post by Xyem on 2008-06-15
[QUOTE=]Is this a USB enclosure?[/quote]
Yep

> It's possible that your USB port does not supply enough power for the 20GB drive.
Even though it has two USB plugs for the PC and one into the enclosure? Windows says the total power is 500mA ( I guess this is normal, I've never seen different ) but both the drives show only 2mA usage ( though they _are_ idle ).

> How old is the computer
It's a Core 2 Duo, does that say enough? :)

> is it USB 1.1 or 2.0?
USB 2.0 according to the motherboard manual.

Can I get the power usage of USB ports/devices in Linux? I could then run a test with dd and see the power consumption of the drives.

EDIT: It might be important that sometimes, it does it as soon as I plug it in.

---

### Post by lswb on 2008-06-15
500 mA is the specification that a USB port is supposed to meet. Being a core 2 duo system with USB 2.0 as you described, it very likley does meet all the specs unless it is defective in some way. It seems more likely that trouble is with the drive itself, but before junking it, can you try it on another computer?

The good news is that you should be able to get a drive in the 20GB range from ebay or elsewhere online for $30 or so. For not much more you could get a much larger drive,

---

### Post by Xyem on 2008-06-16
I think I have a serial killer enclosure. It even waits for the kill..

I have my 6GB HDD plugged into it now and it has been acting strangely when I boot off it ( random freezes and such ). I just noticed the drive seemed to be constantly being accessed despite me not using it ( when I just have it plugged in ) and it is making the same pattern of noise over and over.

So I get down, put it next to my ear and it is like the drive is just spinning up, start spinning down, crunch crunch ( like data being accessed ), spin back up, rinse and repeat.

Then it whined at me like it was in agony :( I feel terrible. Better get out my IDE cable converter thing to make sure the drive is okay.

---

