---
title: "16.04 LTS Sound Interface is Set to Bluetooth Headset, but Sound Comes out Speakers."
date: 2016-11-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by soundtroubles421 on 2016-11-23
Hello, so my headphone slot (of my Asus X450CA (notebook)) came loose, and I've been trying to use a somewhat cheap bluetooth headset ([https://www.everafterguide.com/vivitar-vs50013bt-blk-wm-bluetooth-headphone-black-1b245007e853f794.html](https://www.everafterguide.com/vivitar-vs50013bt-blk-wm-bluetooth-headphone-black-1b245007e853f794.html)) in place of conventional ones. However, the bluetooth features in Ubuntu have been giving me a fair bit of trouble that may be related to my sound problems. Sometimes everything works perfectly; I can just connect them and choose them as the output device with no problem. However, othertimes after my laptop has been suspended or reboots, the bluetooth will be off and refuse to be turned on again. I can turn it to on in the default bluetooth interface, but as soon as I close and reopen the menu the setting is back to off. Additionally, Bluetooth Manager will have almost all of its options greyed out during this time. I think I've found somewhat of a workaround to this by running 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth start
```
and rebooting. However, once my bluetooth is working and my headset is connected, It will only work half of the time. If I am unlucky then I will run into a glitch where the headset is displayed in my sound default settings area, but it outputs to and shares the same configuration as my built in speakers.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]272311[/ATTACH] 
[ATTACH=CONFIG]272312[/ATTACH]
Oddly, PulseAudio doesn't seem to list it as a playback device
[ATTACH=CONFIG]272313[/ATTACH]
, and neither does 
```
aplay -l
```
 [ATTACH=CONFIG]272314[/ATTACH]
There is a difference in the ways that sound settings displays my headset when it is working and not working. When it works it will have a "mode" tab, and I usually have to switch this to high fidelity. However, when it is not working it displays the exact same settings as my speakers and adjusting one will adjust the other. I don't have a screenshot of the display when it works (because it's not working right now), but if I can I will try to get one later. Also, this glitch unlike my bluetooth is not limited to activating only when I reboot or put the laptop into suspend mode; it will sometimes cut out on me during the middle of a song with no apparent cause. I'm not sure whether it is my sound settings or bluetooth messing up here. It seems really weird that sound settings would display it as a playback device, but that the rest of the system would ignore it. If I can give any other information please let me know.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-11-23
You might want to look at the bug report and see if the workaround works for you [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-sound/+bug/1577197](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-sound/+bug/1577197)

---

