---
title: "10.10 rc won't run from USB but desktop okay"
date: 2010-10-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by JohnH on 2010-10-01
Hi everyone,

I'm sure this is a simple issue but I have installed 10.10 rc netbook onto a USB which boots and runs well on my desktop computer but it locks up just after the boot screen on my Lenovo S10-3 netbook. 

I've installed the regular netbook edition (which is what's on the netbook under 10.4). 

What am I missing here (other than dodgy rc status and possible compatibility issue - which there shouldn't be)?

Regards
John

---

### Post by skyjacker on 2010-10-01
I have been running unr 10-10 on my lenovo s10e for two adys now, with no problems. I downloaded it from Softpedia, and installed it to a 4GB usb flash drive using the startup disc creator in the systems menu. May try that, if you didn't do it that way.
Good Luck

---

### Post by JohnH on 2010-10-01
Thanks for your reply,

That's basically what I did except I took the iso from an Ubuntu mirror. It works fine when I boot from it on my main Desktop box but for some reason it sticks just after the purple boot screen...

I might try to install it again.

Regards
John

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-10-01
From the RC Released Notes:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/TechnicalOverview#Known%20issues](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/TechnicalOverview#Known%20issues)

> During the Maverick development cycle, support for the intel_idle driver was included in the Maverick kernel. The intent of intel_idle is to allow Linux to take better advantage of Intel hardware and make Linux more immune to ACPI BIOS bugs and shorcomings of the ACPI implementation itself. This unfortunately appears to have an adverse affect on Lenovo S10-3 systems (Intel Atom N450 processor) rendering them incapable of booting. There currently exists a workaround. If one passes "intel_idle.max_cstate=0" as a kernel paremeter at boot, this will disable intel_idle and allow the S10-3 to successfully boot. (634702) A fix for this issue will be released in a kernel package update post-10.10 release (647071) 

---

### Post by JohnH on 2010-10-01
Thank you Mike,

Ah! That explains what is happening. I read through the release notes but I didn't see anything there about it. I guess I didn't read it carefully enough:oops:

Thank you for your help; I'm much relieved.

Best regards
John

---

