---
title: "17.10: Cannot print to brother printer"
date: 2017-12-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mistcloud-misty on 2017-12-13
The printer: Brother MFC-J870DW. I have used this printer on many versions of Ubuntu with varying degrees of functionality, by downloading the LPR and CUPS drivers from the brother website. Unfortunately, despite the drivers being installed, apparently being 'connected' to the printer (states: Idle) I cannot print. 

I will try to print, I will get a processing message, and then it returns to idle. Printer does not respond. Other people can print from their windows laptops.

I have rebooted my computer, unplugged the printer and plugged it back in, rebooted the modem, reinstalled and re-added the printer, reinstalled the drivers, reinstalled CUPS. Nothing works. I am simply incapable of printing from this damn printer. 

Occasionally in the printer settings page I am able to get the toner levels indicating connection at some level, but when I try to print, nothing. I get no error messages when I print. It is recorded as a completed job in my CUPS history. I am unsure of what to do here... any advice? I will note when I add the printer I must add via LPR and IP, because it never locates a network printer on its own.

EDIT: After an embarrassing temper tantrum I hit the printer several times with great force, and when I tried to print again a new printer appeared.. I clicked it and it printed. I'm not sure this is a good solution, however, because I hurt my hand.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2017-12-13
> **mistcloud-misty said:**
> …After an embarrassing temper tantrum I hit the printer several times with great force… I'm not sure this is a good solution, however, because I hurt my hand.
:lolflag:
You have no idea how much you've just made my day.

---

### Post by QIII on 2017-12-13
I'd consider investing in a large rubber mallet.  Saves a trip to the emergency room every time something is in need of percussive persuasion.

---

