---
title: "11.04 laptop gdm keyboard issue"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jryanitpro on 2011-04-30
I have a unique issue at my login screen on my new install of Ubuntu 11.04. When I get to my login screen I click on my user name and at first I thought the keyboard wasn't working at all but after playing around I noticed that the keys would work if I kept them pressed for a few seconds. After logging in everything is back to normal as far as the key board goes. If this is anything that sounds familiar to you or can lend a hand it would be much appreciated. I'm trying to buy in to the new Unity thing but so far it's a mixed bag. I just hate that in the operating system world developers think they must differentiate themselves from the crowd and in turn completely slow down a work flow that most people are used to for years. But that is another story. The Windows world was Vista now I guess the Gnome world has it's own Vista and KDE 4 scenario to fight through. I still don't believe KDE has recovered fully from the disruption. But everyone finding a safe place in the Gnome desktop just got a jolt of reality.

But we'll see how it plays out.....

PS Sorry I got off point about the keyboard issue.

Thanks
Joe

---

### Post by Seranis on 2011-05-05
My laptop just developed this issue today. I had a virtualbox windows machine up when I shut down, but I thought it exited before Ubuntu went down. Probably not relevant. Anyway, when I booted up the next time, I had this strange issue. I rebooted it several times thinking my keyboard wasn't working at all until I figured that out as you did.

---

### Post by firfin on 2011-05-17
I just got the same issue. At first I thought the keyboard was not responding at all. But I have the same issue. Keys need to be pressed for a long time before they appear. 

This is because of the 'slow keys' setting in the universal access settings.
You can change it by clicking the universal access logo (on the bottom to the right. ) Click on the menu, here you can enable and disable 'slow keys'.

Also the onscreen keyboard is there (which I used to log in before I realised my keys were working slowly.)

---

### Post by wilsonr0 on 2011-08-20
Great spot - thank you - I've been suffering from this problem for about a week and have no idea how slow-keys got set in the first place.

---

### Post by uriel1998 on 2012-05-05
Huh - I just started having this problem with 10.04 as well after uninstalling some things (including Ubuntu Tweak) - will give this a shot!

---

### Post by uriel1998 on 2012-05-05
> **wilsonr0 said:**
> Great spot - thank you - I've been suffering from this problem for about a week and have no idea how slow-keys got set in the first place.

Yup, that's exactly what it was for me.  I suspect it might have had something to do with the uninstall of Ubuntu Tweak (or Compiz) that's the only change between now and the prior boot.

Thank goodness - for a while I was afraid my keyboard or the OS was toast....

:guitar:

---

