---
title: "dual monitor works, single does not. &lt;!?!?&gt;"
date: 2008-06-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Spainface on 2008-06-26
UPDATE: Fixed by restoring archaic xorg.conf I had backed up ages ago.  still no idea what caused the initial problem.


Hey everyone.

I have a laptop with a second monitor in twinview (hpw2207h).  Everything was working fine until yesterday. I installed KDE4.1 just to play around with while I was away from my second monitor.  Now things work fine if I'm at home with the second monitor attached, but if I reboot and unattach it, then I get to where the login screen should be and it's just blank, with only my mouse able to do anything.  No key commands seem to do anything.  Plug in the external and reboot and all is shiny again.

Initially when I installed KDE4.1 it went straight to the black screen. I rebooted in recovery mode and did the automatic Xserver fix.  This worked for just the laptop but I couldn't get the external to work for the life of me. I restored the post-4.1 pre-xserver fix when I got home.

Any thoughts?   Thanks!

Here's my current xorg.conf
> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HP w2207"
    HorizSync       24.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     48.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce Go 6100"
EndSection


Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1680x1050 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +400+1050"
EndSection


---

