---
title: "9.04 and a second monitor"
date: 2009-11-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by webbdawg on 2009-11-27
I cannot find where in the system controls where I can control or specify a second monitor.

I do find the second desktop which is not what I want.

I am working off my loptop and at home I use a full sized keyboard and mouse (both working) But I cannot find where to work on getting a second monitor working.

Thanks
Dave

---

### Post by jessiebrownjr on 2009-11-27
I hope you find out how to do this because I bought a 2nd monitor today and will be looking into this tommorrow. I will look for myself as well as update you if I find out how to do it.

---

### Post by webbdawg on 2009-12-12
Well, Jess, I guess if you have not figured it out yet we are out of luck. I have not figured it our either.

Certainly there must be a way to get an external monitor working.

---

### Post by webbdawg on 2009-12-12
Well, after that last post I stumbled across the Nvida X-server settings. I am not sure why these controls are not more readily found. t least they are now in the Recently used menu, because I cannot figure out where I found them.

I started playing with the second control settings. I can get the external monitor to turn on and it looks really good.

But I cannot committ changes to the config file and when I restart the changes I made are all gone.

I can make changes and click the apply button and things turn on. But when I Click the "Save to X Configuration File I get the message
"Unable to create new X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'."

I am guessing this is why when I reboot/restart my changes are not committed.

Any Suggestions on this??

Thanks Dave

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-12-12
Try opening your nvidia configuration program with gksudo, eg I use nvidia-settings, so for me it would be (in a terminal)

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by webbdawg on 2009-12-12
Thanks, I am suprised the utility did not just ask for the password like it does every else.

I have my big monitor working now and it is so much nicer than my 13.3 laptop screen.

I'll holler back if I have any problems with it.

Thanks again

---

