---
title: "10.4 ALPHA ATI Radeon 2400 drivers"
date: 2010-01-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nastyguard on 2010-01-07
Hello there, wonderful community of the Ubuntu Forums!

I have recently updated to the alpha version of 10.4, and I must say - for an alpha version, it's pretty damn stable! I mean - sure, you can't run some stuff like "Update Manager" and "Hardware Drivers" from the menu, but you can do the stuff you need manually through the terminal, as far as I know.

I don't really know how to call myself when I think about my relation with Ubuntu...

Every so often when my Windows files get corrupted (this time with Windows 7... go figure!) I install Ubuntu, but go back to Windows after about 2 months, because of the lack of games.

Now that there has been a serious lack of PC games in 2009 and/or I played the hell of every one of them that were any good, there is really no reason for me to switch back to Windows right now, since I don't really feel like gaming these last 5 months or so.

Anyways, enough about that - the problem I'm facing is this: When I first installed 10.4, everything ran great without any problems (although the volume was turned down to the lowest every time I reboot the system, and I'm still facing this problem. Anyone knows a fix?) but the problem arose when I wanted to play Open Arena.

I started it, and it began to lag REALLY BAD. I thought it was a problem with the drivers, so I downloaded the latest Linux drivers from the ATI website, and when I installed them - it's like I don't have any drivers installed at all!

When I scroll down the page, it is very skippy, as if I wouldn't even have my drivers installed.

When I try to launch Open Arena, I can see a black bar appearing in the center of the screen for less than half a second.

I wonder if there is any way to restore my default drivers or download ones from the Ubuntu database (or whatever it's called)? 

Since "Hardware Drivers" can't be started from the menu, I can't really think of any other way...


Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by nastyguard on 2010-01-07
Bump

---

### Post by nastyguard on 2010-01-07
Another BUMP!

Anyone interested in helping me? PLEASE?

---

### Post by nastyguard on 2010-01-07
BUMP

*sigh* I'm getting tired of this. :(

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-01-07
Upgrade to the xorg-edgers PPA ( [https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers) ) for the best graphics. Also, you might want to try turning off kernel modesetting (add radeon.modeset=0 to the boot parameters) since KMS is not fully debugged/optimized yet, especially in the 2.6.32 kernel series.

---

### Post by nastyguard on 2010-01-07
I can't add the sources link from the site you gave me to the Software Sources.

When I do, it starts reloading packages, and comes up with this error:

"Failed to fetch [http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/drivers-only/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz](http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/drivers-only/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz)  404  Not Found
Some index files failed to download, they have been ignored, or old ones used instead."

Also, how do I set Boot Parameters again?

---

