---
title: "21.10 - XBOX One controller support (Wired and Wireless)"
date: 2021-10-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by MeditatingHamster on 2021-10-05
Hi, does anyone know what the state of support is for XBOX One controller in 21.10? 

I've tried pair with the official wireless dongle and nothing and the controller doesn't pair.
I looked at pairing direct with the onboard BT on the motherboard, but all it does is show a load of MAC address and a couple of devices that declare what they actually are, but no XBOX controller.
Plugging in wired through micro USB doesn't seem to do anything other than cause the controller to rumble, no gamepads show up in Kubuntu's gamepad section.

For wired, I tried..

**sudo apt-get install xboxdrv**

  **sudo systemctl enable xboxdrv.service**

 [B]sudo systemctl start xboxdrv.service

[/B]but I get "[FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]**Failed to enable unit: Unit file xboxdrv.service does not exist**.[/COLOR]"[/FONT]

The Game Controller within the Input Devices section shows....

[B]No joystick device automatically found on this computer.
Checks were done in /dev/js[0-4] and /dev/input/js[0-4]
If you know that there is one attached, please enter the correct device file.[/B]


The device dropdown selection is empty.

----------------------------------------------------------

Edit... It seems like the issue was plugging my controller into a hub rather than directly into the PC.
So...Wired is sorted.

I just need to fix the wireless.
----------------------------------------------------------

Edit...Ok, so strangely it looks like I don't need the dongle to pair the XBOX One controller, I can just use my inbuilt wireless.
The strange thing is that when I tried this before, all I could see were bluetooth symbols and MAC addresses. This time I saw a gamepad symbol, so I knew it was the correct one. 

Thanks.

---

