---
title: "16.04 LTS input sound switching to headphones"
date: 2016-06-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by carlos124 on 2016-06-22
Hi there,

I'm having exactly the same problem, it happens to me in ubuntu 16.04, debian and manjaro.
As in your case my system is using the ALC892 driver...
It is driving me crazy, anyone out there has any ideas or additional info needed to solve it?
Please keep me posted if you make any progress...

My devices:

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 0: ALC892 Analog [ALC892 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 1: ALC892 Digital [ALC892 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 1: HDMI [HDA ATI HDMI], device 3: HDMI 0 [HDMI 0]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

---

### Post by carlos124 on 2016-06-22
So I just found a workaround that "solves" the problem for me.
It seems this driver has problems automatically detecting which jack are being used...
I read here about a little program that can override jacks' configuration: hda-jack-retask
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/439111/crackling-and-sound-interruptions-speaker-headphone-switching](http://askubuntu.com/questions/439111/crackling-and-sound-interruptions-speaker-headphone-switching)

This is the program: [http://voices.canonical.com/david.henningsson/2011/11/29/turn-your-mic-jack-into-a-headphone-jack/](http://voices.canonical.com/david.henningsson/2011/11/29/turn-your-mic-jack-into-a-headphone-jack/)

It turns out that it is included in the debian package alsa-tools-gui
[https://packages.debian.org/jessie/alsa-tools-gui](https://packages.debian.org/jessie/alsa-tools-gui)

I just installed the package "alsa-tools" and "alsa-tools-gui" with apt-get.
Then run "hdajackretask" and overrided all jacks that are not the speakers changing any "Present" to "Not Present".
I overrided the jack where i connect the speakers to "Present".

This works for me, sound is good, obviously the automatic detection of headphones and anything you connect doesn't work anymore, but I use the jack in the speakers themselves to connect the headphones, so that's not a problem for me.
If you connect anything else you'll have to update in the program manually.

I hope it helps!
Carlos

---

### Post by carlos124 on 2016-06-22
Forgot to mention, to see the "Present/Not Present" option you need to click on "advanced override" on the right.
There is an option to "install boot override" for the changes to be applied every time you boot.
Best,
Carlos

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2016-06-22
carlos124 i have moved you to your own thread as to not confuse your problem with the other Thread.
Starting your own thread is the proper way, even if you think it is the same as another posting.
Thanks and Kind Regards

---

### Post by nebhead772 on 2016-10-13
Thanks!!!!!  Saved me tons of grief.  Wish I had stumbled upon this a year ago.  Been banging my head against the wall on this for so long - even purchased a new sound card (that ended up not working).  This solution is perfect for me.  

> **carlos124 said:**
> Forgot to mention, to see the "Present/Not Present" option you need to click on "advanced override" on the right.
There is an option to "install boot override" for the changes to be applied every time you boot.
Best,
Carlos

---

