---
title: "10.4 Dell mini 910 works great except wifi."
date: 2011-01-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by philodice on 2011-01-02
I just finished installing 10.4 on a Dell mini that my nephew described as a paperweight.  It had windows on it, and several viruses.
It is working great, none of the scrolling problems or driver problems.  Restricted extras work like a dream.
Flash, games...all good.
I can't get the wifi to turn on.  Can anyone point me to the right thread?  There are so many, it is mind boggling and I'm just a beginner.
I started with a paperweight, so any progress is good.  It wouldn't stay turned on unless plugged into the charger before, wouldn't snooze or hibernate.  That's all fixed.  I'd like to give him a perfectly working Ubuntu laptop, but the way I see it, it didn't work at all before so I'm not being held to a high standard.

What are the best Dell netbook remix 10.4 distro hint threads?  What program should I install to make it turn on?
Thanks!

---

### Post by perspectoff on 2011-01-02
Are you using Network Manager?

If so, join the thousands of people with the same problem.

I had the same problem for months as well, then uninstalled Network Manager and installed Wicd instead (for wireless). I don't have the problems anymore.

---

### Post by philodice on 2011-01-02
Oh heck.  I was trying to upgrade to 10.10 just to see if that fixed it, and the thing crashed while installing.  I'm starting over, this time with a stick that is already made with 10.10 and then I'll install wicd.
ATM I have a purple screen that says something failed, and my login name...that is all.
*dies*
Well I did it once I can do it again.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-02
Stick to 10.04 LTS. Stabler and long term support release.

When you're up and running, can you insert an ethernet cable and get online, get your updates, and that may offer you the correct software and firmware for your card. Also, could you post the result of:

lspci

Near the bottom you will find your card. That will help. Just post the card if you like. ;)

---

### Post by philodice on 2011-01-03
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Stick to 10.04 LTS. Stabler and long term support release.
 
When you're up and running, can you insert an ethernet cable and get online, get your updates, and that may offer you the correct software and firmware for your card. Also, could you post the result of:
 
lspci
 
Near the bottom you will find your card. That will help. Just post the card if you like. ;)
 
realtek semiconductor co rtl8101e/rtl8102e pci express fast ethernet controller (rev 02)
 
Except...I got cute and thought I'd be smart.
Somehow I was stuck in unity interface and I didn't like it.
So I uninstalled unity.  Now, I can only reach the terminal by ctrl alt t.
How to get desktop back?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-03
Try this:

Boot into the recovery kernel (second on the list), drop to a root shell and type this:

startx

---

### Post by philodice on 2011-01-03
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Try this:

Boot into the recovery kernel (second on the list), drop to a root shell and type this:

startx
How do I boot into that?
I got to the terminal.
OMG!
I did it.  I installed unity again from the terminal.
Now..wifi...
And a giant L tatoo.

And how to enable normal desktop?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-03
When you start the machine, you are getting to the boot list? List of options, kernels to boot into?

Second on that list should be the recovery version of the latest kernel. Choose that.

If you are already at a terminal, type:

startx

That *should* get you to a desktop.

---

### Post by philodice on 2011-01-03
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> When you start the machine, you are getting to the boot list? List of options, kernels to boot into?

Second on that list should be the recovery version of the latest kernel. Choose that.

If you are already at a terminal, type:

startx

That *should* get you to a desktop.
I'm good.  I actually reinstalled unity and I'm playing with it.  Maybe I like it.  It is interesting.  It does make more room on the tiny net book screen.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-03
"Unity is a graphical interface designed for Ubuntu Netbook Remix edition."

Were you running Ubuntu Netbook Remix 10.04 LTS? Wondering if that had anything to do with your issue.

---

### Post by philodice on 2011-01-03
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> "Unity is a graphical interface designed for Ubuntu Netbook Remix edition."

Were you running Ubuntu Netbook Remix 10.04 LTS? Wondering if that had anything to do with your issue.
Totally.  I always go with the netbook remix distro.
The touch pad, card reader, and all the little function buttons work as well now.
But I uninstalled network manager before installing wicd and that's a bad thing...

---

### Post by philodice on 2011-01-03
I'm starting to like Unity.  So small...so out of the way and so fast.
I'll work on the wifi this weekend.  Thanks so far though!

---

### Post by philodice on 2011-01-08
wingbolt@wingbolt-Inspiron-910:~$ sudo ishw -C network; rfkill list; sudo iwlist scan | head -n 25
[sudo] password for wingbolt: 
sudo: ishw: command not found
0: compal-wifi: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
1: compal-bluetooth: Bluetooth
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
2: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

wlan0     Interface doesn't support scanning : Network is down

dell mini 910  10.10
02:00.3 System peripheral: JMicron Technology Corp. MS Host Controller
03:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY (rev 01)
04:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)

I am posting to this forum using wired connection from the computer I am fixing.  :smile:

ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:21:70:d2:2d:e8  
          inet addr:192.168.1.104  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::221:70ff:fed2:2de8/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:2296 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1613 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:1748660 (1.7 MB)  TX bytes:293665 (293.6 KB)
          Interrupt:43 Base address:0xc000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:28 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:28 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:2096 (2.0 KB)  TX bytes:2096 (2.0 KB)

iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:eek:ff/any  
          Mode:Managed  Access Point: Not-Associated   Tx-Power=0 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:eek:ff   Fragment thr:eek:ff
          Power Management:eek:ff

route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
 		                   		  		  		 		 			 				__________________
ping -c 3 208.67.219.101
PING 208.67.219.101 (208.67.219.101) 56(84) bytes of data.

 ping -c 3 [www.opendns.com]("http://www.opendns.com/")
PING [www.opendns.com]("http://www.opendns.com/") (208.69.38.150) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 208.69.38.150: icmp_req=1 ttl=58 time=36.2 ms
64 bytes from 208.69.38.150: icmp_req=2 ttl=58 time=57.2 ms
64 bytes from 208.69.38.150: icmp_req=3 ttl=58 time=33.9 ms

--- [www.opendns.com]("http://www.opendns.com/") ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 10174ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 33.975/42.469/57.211/10.465 ms

I've gone through several online threads and I'm not getting it.  Sorry, I'm not doing well at the self taught Ubuntu kungfu.
 		                   		  		  		 		 			 				__________________

---

### Post by sidmaster1 on 2011-09-15
Just a good story. I bought this Dell mini 910 for my wife a while back and it came with Ubuntu 8.04 (trashed) and I had a ton of problems with hangs every time it was used. I sent it to Dell and all they did was reinstall the OS(8.04) and returned it, with the same problem! Finally after 6 months, I put Ubuntu 10.04 LTS on it and everything works like a charm. I did have WiFi problem to start with but after installing the proprietary driver for the network card, wireless works perfectly

I was wondering if the newest ver. of Ubuntu would work(11.xx) and what advantages would there be?

If wifi does not work after upgrading the driver then it could be a hardware problem?

Good Luck!

-Sid

---

### Post by HR70s on 2011-09-15
I have a Dell 1011 mini 10 that I just installed remix on. I had the same problem. you will need the broadcom number of your 
wireless card. Then go to broadcom.com and you can find the driver you need for ubuntu. Mine works fine.

---

