---
title: "13.04 No mouse input after install"
date: 2013-04-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by shiznatix on 2013-04-25
Hello,

I just downloaded and installed 13.04 on my laptop today and my mouse is not working after the install. When running the live USB, everything works fine but whenever I boot after the install (and every boot afterwards), the trackpad does nothing. If I put a USB mouse in, nothing happens as well. No movement, right click, or left click. Keyboard works fine though.

Then, about 30 seconds after logging in upon reboot, I get a "your computer encountered and error" error and I hit the spacebar to cancel sending anything (no wifi either...).

I don't know if it means anything, but I installed via unetbootin and whenever booting from the USB in the unetbootin screen, If I selected "Default" I would get an error saying that the kernel had an issue. I could only get into the live session when I selected "Try Ubuntu".

---

### Post by smitty on 2013-04-25
Confirmed on a Dell Lattitude 5510.

I also used a Unetbootin to create a live USB from which to boot and / or install.

My symptoms match yours exactly even down to the installation error and work around.

Currently booted off the USB in try mode and mouse and trackpad are working fine.

---

### Post by shiznatix on 2013-04-26
> **smitty said:**
> Confirmed on a Dell Lattitude 5510.

I also used a Unetbootin to create a live USB from which to boot and / or install.

My symptoms match yours exactly even down to the installation error and work around.

Currently booted off the USB in try mode and mouse and trackpad are working fine.

So you also have no mouse after install?

---

### Post by chamaraw on 2013-04-26
I have same problem with my Toshiba C850

---

### Post by smitty on 2013-04-26
Correct, neither my mouse nor my trackpad work after installing 13.04 from USB created with Unetbootin from the desktop 64 bit ISO.

---

### Post by max_power on 2013-04-27
I'm having the same issue. Installed on a desktop via unetbootin. No USB mouse/keyboard as well as wireless hardware. Tried multiple times with multiple iso downloads.

---

### Post by Skiesare on 2013-04-28
I had the same situation after installing onto a desktop with a USB Microsoft Basic Mouse V2.1. The problem was solved by changing to a noname USB mouse that I had lying around. A driver issue perhaps?
The Microsoft mouse is working in other machines.

---

### Post by smitty on 2013-04-28
I seem to have encountered a similar if not the same problem on a Dell Latitude E5510. I did install from a USB flash drive created from the .ISO file using Unetbootin.

When I created an install USB drive using Unetbootin and then proceeded to use it to install Ubuntu 13.04 I encountered the same problem e.g. no mouse, trackpad, etc. It appears that Unetbootin can't handle something in the Ubuntu 13.04 .ISO.

When I recreated the install USB drive using the default "Startup Disk Creator" program and re-installed Ubuntu 13.04, I ended up with a fully functional system.

---

### Post by zlot on 2013-05-04
Same issue in a VMWare version of Ubuntu. I have multiple desktops available and have the mouse pointer in Xubuntu session and system default. the problem is missing pointer as there is functionality if you use a little imagination. I REALLY wish I did the upgrade from the command-line. The mouse pointer does appear in apps' windows, but not on the desktop.
I've been trying different things all day with no success and even wrecked the desktop totally on one occasion, fortunately was able to restore it.
I just may have to resign myself to using "System Default" desktop.....
ps As per one of the above posts, I also tried sticking another mouse on the system and it acted exactly the same way - no pointer.

---

### Post by spy20 on 2013-05-05
Hi,

I've the same matter ; no input devices mouse and keyboard.

That's booring.

I've installed 13.04 [COLOR=#000000]from USB created with Unetbootin from the desktop 64 bit ISO[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Patrick2 on 2013-05-14
Ran perfect in the UNetbootin Live mode; once installed no mouse, no USB mouse, no wired ethernet, no wireless ethernet. 

I dropped to the OS level in the live mode, mounted the hard disk root file systems, did a chroot /mnt and performed an update/upgrade.  Same, results; no built in mouse, no USB mouse, no wired ethernet, no wireless ethernet.

Dell D600

---

