---
title: "9.10 can not be installed on acer 3820tg with &quot;switchable&quot; option for hybrid graphics"
date: 2010-05-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by froyang on 2010-05-17
hi, all.
sorry for english is not my native language.
i get a new laptop, acer timelinex 3820tg with ATI Mobility Radeon HD5470
i prefer to install ubuntu9.10, but it gets no display at installation when the graphic bios option is "switchable".  
it can finish the installation when the option is "discrete", but get the same problem if it switches back to "switchable" at a normal boot, and i don't like this setting.
could anyone help me? 

Thank You
Fro Yang

---

### Post by soltanis on 2010-05-17
I had a laptop with a "switchable" graphics card once. I installed Ubuntu on it fine by leaving the switch on one of the cards (specifically the nVidia one, instead of the Intel one). My best suggestion for you is if there is the option to set the switch to a single setting, do it and leave it there.

I've never seen the real use for that switch (or two graphics cards) anyways.

---

### Post by froyang on 2010-05-17
> **soltanis said:**
> I had a laptop with a "switchable" graphics card once. I installed Ubuntu on it fine by leaving the switch on one of the cards (specifically the nVidia one, instead of the Intel one). My best suggestion for you is if there is the option to set the switch to a single setting, do it and leave it there.

I've never seen the real use for that switch (or two graphics cards) anyways.

Thank you very much.
I do not need switching for Ubuntu, but i need that for Win7, it's unacceptable for switching the option every time to switch OS.
I hope to find a way to make Ubuntu910 works fine with either intel GPU or ati GPU.

---

### Post by kacerpetr on 2010-05-17
Hello. I would like to ask you. Is possible to disable GPU switching and set the Intel graphic card as active in bios? I know about possibility of switching between discrete GPU and swichable mode in bios. I need to know about this third possibility.

---

### Post by froyang on 2010-05-18
> **kacerpetr said:**
> Hello. I would like to ask you. Is possible to disable GPU switching and set the Intel graphic card as active in bios? I know about possibility of switching between discrete GPU and swichable mode in bios. I need to know about this third possibility.

no, there are 2 options only for this model.

---

