---
title: "Toshiba Laptop Screen resolution help"
date: 2009-03-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Lepht on 2009-03-22
Hello forum:

I am try to set my laptop with resolution of 1440X900. Its not under screen resolutions, so I am asking how do I add it in the terminal. Thanks

 Video card 9700M GTS 512MB

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Lepht on 2009-03-22
Bump ; ;

---

### Post by Irfy on 2009-03-22
Have you tried installing the proprietary drivers?
System->Administration->Hardware Drivers

-- Irfy

---

### Post by Lepht on 2009-03-24
when I tried to do that, the activate driver loading bar pops up for a sec than vanishes. My guess is my card is not supported.

---

### Post by Lepht on 2009-03-29
Bump

---

### Post by Lepht on 2009-04-04
Bump

---

### Post by kfenton on 2009-04-07
i have the same problem.. no proprietary diver for me either... and my xorg.conf file is exactly the same? did you ever find a fix for this??

---

