---
title: "8.10 killed my screen."
date: 2008-11-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by c2l on 2008-11-03
This Saturday i Installed Ubuntu 8.10 and some basic apps. (open office, vlc, java stuff) on my HP Pavillion xp 1000 laptop. 
I was so psyched about the speed and smoothness of Ubuntu compared to Vista. Alas; tonight when i booted up, my screen was dead: No bios, no nothing, just blank death. I Can tell from the sound, and from the light in my hotkeys, that the computer is running. However, i dont think the OS is, cause when i press the hotkeys, they dont change colour, like they usually would.
I Havent got the slighest idea what I can do, any help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-03
Have you tried plugging an external monitor in to it?

Jim

---

### Post by c2l on 2008-11-03
Yeps, i dosent get a signal...

---

### Post by hunter2618 on 2008-11-03
The solution I found was to edit as root the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and comment out (or remove) just one section:

#Section "Files"
# RgbPath "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
#EndSection

After restarting the gdm with /etc/init.d/gdm restart everything worked fine.

Of course a reboot after the removal (or comment out) of the three lines is also fine to solve the issue.

Good luck and please let me know if it works after this adjustment!

---

### Post by c2l on 2008-11-04
@hunter2618
The problem is that i haven't got a screen. The Screen is blank, where do I write?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-04
Have you  pulled the battery and let it sit for a day, then tried it again?

When you do turn the computer on can you hear the fans and hard drive spin up?

Jim

---

