---
title: "Lenovo T61 slow wireless"
date: 2008-12-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Corp on 2008-12-27
I installed Ubuntu for my dad on his laptop, and just about everything has worked flawlessly out of the box. The only real problem I've had is that the wireless is incredibly slow. I have Ubuntu running on my T60, and the wireless works about 10 times faster using the same servers, I usually download around 200 k/s from the MIT repository servers, and my dad was downloading at a max of 20 k/s, sometimes dropping below 1 k/s. This is with the laptops right next to each other (we also tried them in separate rooms just in case it was some sort of interference between the two).

From the lspci output it says the T61 has the "Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN [Kedron] Network Connection (rev 61)" wireless card. From what I've read this card usually works perfectly out of the box, but not quite for us.

I've been searching around on these forums and google for about an hour and a half now with no luck, so I'm hoping someone on here has experienced similar issues and will know a resolution.

Let me know if you need anymore information and I'll try to get it. It might take a little time to get back with answers though, my dad will probably take the laptop back when he needs it for work.

Thanks

---

### Post by Corp on 2008-12-28
Nobody has any suggestions? I'd really like to get this working for him...

---

### Post by mariner09 on 2008-12-28
Have you done any tweaks to network performance on your machine that hasn't been applied to the other machine?

I would use some of the speed test sites to really gauge your download performance.  When you're downloading a file, others might be downloading the same file.  Coincidence, sure...

How about network config?  resolv.conf?

On my T61 running Intrepid with the Intel wireless, I get 13mb down and 2.2mb up with a 64ms latency.

---

### Post by Corp on 2008-12-28
> **mariner09 said:**
> Have you done any tweaks to network performance on your machine that hasn't been applied to the other machine?

I would use some of the speed test sites to really gauge your download performance.  When you're downloading a file, others might be downloading the same file.  Coincidence, sure...

How about network config?  resolv.conf?

On my T61 running Intrepid with the Intel wireless, I get 13mb down and 2.2mb up with a 64ms latency.

I haven't done anything to my T60 regarding the network.

I ran a bandwidth test on my T60 and my dad's T61 on the same server these were the results:

T60 - Download: 2163 kb/s Upload: 948 kb/s
T61 - Download: 220 kb/s Upload 86 kb/s


This is the contents of his /etc/resolv.conf file:
> 
#Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.2.1

The only major difference I found between the two laptops is that the T60 has the Atheros wireless card and the T61 has the Intel 4965 wireless card. Also the T61 was installed using Wubi, could that be causing any of this?

---

### Post by Corp on 2008-12-29
bump

---

