---
title: "11.10 Oneiric &gt;&gt; HP LaserJet 1200 stopped working"
date: 2012-01-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by AdamDSmith on 2012-01-18
After installing 11.10 Oneiric, HP LaserJet 1200 will no longer work  properly. It worked (most of the time) with my previous Ubuntu  installations. I have seen similar threads. But not sure where best to  post my issue. Here is a brief description:

The printer is  recognised just fine. System Settings > Printing; HP-LaserJet-1200  icon is visible; clicking brings up properties dialog. If I click "Print  Test Page", Printer State changes from "Idle" > "Processing" >  "Idle". Notification appears to say "Printing completed", but the  printer does nothing, except flash its green busy light.

Attempting  to print LibreOffice writer document: Prints only first page. Status  says "idle", but the green light is winking. No more pages appear. Item  is no longer shown in the Document Print Status dialog. Notification  says "Printing completed".

Try to print from Evince Document Viewer. Prints only 
[start]
PCL XL error
Subsystem: KERNEL
Error: IllegalTag
Operator: 0x3d
Position: 3119
[end]
Notification says "Printing completed"

Try  again. Printer State changes very briefly to "Processing", then back to  "Idle". Nothing printed. Notification says "Printing completed."

Try to print from plain text file using gedit. Nothing printed. Notification says "Printing completed."

As far as I can tell, printing has completely broken with the installation

If someone could let me know where to pursue this, I would be very grateful.

---

### Post by heshoots67 on 2012-01-18
Threads in Forum : General Help

---

