---
title: "refresh rate, xorg.conf, edid.bin"
date: 2009-10-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by burakvarhan on 2009-10-19
I have this new asus laptop with Nvidia Geforce GTX 260M gpu. My problem is the refresh rate is low with ubuntu 9.04 and 9.10 beta even though I have installed the latest driver from nvidia web site.

I particularly need some help about why my xorg.conf file does not override the parameters that I set and does anyone know how to locate and modify the related parameters in the edid.bin file.

My xorg.conf file is below.
Thanks for the help

[COLOR="Green"]
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed Sep  2 03:50:51 PDT 2009

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed Sep  2 03:51:49 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # 1920x1080 @ 70.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 78.68 kHz; pclk: 205.20 MHz
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    ModeLine       "1920x1080@70.00" 205.20 1920 2056 2264 2608 1080 1081 1084 1124 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1920x1080@75.00" 220.64 1920 2056 2264 2608 1080 1081 1084 1128 -hsync +vsync
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 260M"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "UseEDIDFreqs" "FALSE"
    Option         "NoBandWidthTest" "TRUE"
    Option         "ExactModeTimingsDVI" "TRUE"
    Option         "ModeValidation" "NoEdidModes, NoMaxPClkCheck, NoVertRefreshCheck, NoHorizSyncCheck, NoEdidMaxPClkCheck"
    Option         "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP-0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1080@70.00" "1920x1080@75.00"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-10-19
Are you absolutely sure that your monitor supports 70Hz refresh? Laptops usually do 60Hz refresh and any flicker you see from that is not from the refresh rate; it's more likely from disabling sync-on-refresh instead of enabling triple buffering.

Take a look at /var/log/Xorg.0.log. Did the X server correctly identify the monitor at X startup? If so, there will be no arguing with it because (I think) the nvidia driver will override any monitor timing changes you make. It's all for your own good, ya know.

Can you change it via nvidia-settings? That's the easy test...

---

### Post by burakvarhan on 2009-10-20
Thank you very much for the reply.

I had the same problem with my current HP laptop. Luckily, after overriding the parameters in xorg.conf and disabling nvidia driver it started to refresh at 70Hz. But with ubuntu 9.10 beta even this method did not yield any result.

Unfortunately, X server does not identify my monitor as you can see in the xorg file the monitor vendor name is "Unknown". I guess this is the reason that the driver does not accept customized values. 

Is there a way to make X server recognize my monitor or give monitor parameters manually?

As for nvidia overriding my parameters, you are right, xorg.0.log shows that my parameters are not accepted.

Changing it via nvidia-settings is not an option because it does not show my parameters.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2009-10-20
Hello,

I would give you a quick advice comparing my xorg.conf file and yours. 

First of take a backup of your original xorg.conf file:
cd /etc/X11
sudo cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup_last
then:
sudo vim xorg.conf

In the option Identifier of your monitor type:
 Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
and erase the Vendor Name.

Restart your system and see if this works. If not, then restore your original xorg.conf file:
sudo cp xorg.conf.backup_last xorg.conf (inside the /etc/X11 directory).

Regards!

---

