---
title: "Laptop not aquiring IP address"
date: 2010-04-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by RefinersFire on 2010-04-04
I have a Compaq Evo N1000c with a fresh install of Ubuntu 9.4. It connects to the router (so it seems) but it is not acquiring the IP address from my ISP. The desktop I am working on now works fine and is connected through the same router.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by URGettingADull on 2010-04-05
Hate to suggest the obvious, but do you have the wireless configured with the correct protocol and cipher?

---

### Post by RefinersFire on 2010-04-05
The laptop is hard wired.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-04-05
If you are connected to a router, you get your IP address from the router, not the ISP. It will probably be something along the lines of 192.168.1.102

---

### Post by RefinersFire on 2010-04-05
192.168.1.100 ;)

---

### Post by crypto2600 on 2010-04-05
> **RefinersFire said:**
> 192.168.1.100 ;)

Most routers start delegating IPs from x.100 so that's good. If you can't get online check router config. It's not OS related most likely at this point.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-04-05
I think that means you can mark the thread as "solved."

By the way, if you want to know what IP address your ISP assigned to your router, Google "my IP address" and you will get several sites with the answer.

Do you have a different problem?

---

### Post by RefinersFire on 2010-04-07
The issue is the laptop is not getting an IP address from my ISP. It has an IP from the router (192.168.1.100), but is not getting an IP from the ISP. When I had Windows on it, I was surfing fine.

This desktop's router IP is 192.168.1.102, but it has an IP address from my ISP (63.***.***.***)

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-04-08
It doesn't need an IP address from your ISP. Its one and only IP address is 192.168.1.102.

If you are having trouble surfing, it is a different problem. One step in solving that is to open Accessories/Terminal and paste in this command:
cat /etc/resolv.conf
(to Paste in Terminal, you must go to the (File Edit View..) line and use Edit/Paste.)

The output should include two "nameserver" lines. Does it?

---

### Post by RefinersFire on 2010-04-09
I forgot to mention that when I hook the laptop to the modem directly (cable modem) it still does not connect to the internet.

The resolv.conf file only shows 192.168.1.1.
This system shows five or six lines.


# Generated by NetworkManager
domain cpe.persona.ca
search cpe.persona.ca
nameserver 216.104.96.22
nameserver 216.104.98.222

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-04-09
If you connect to the cable modem, you should get a "real" IP address.

I have never seen "domain" or "search" lines in resolv.conf. I don't know what they are, but I suspect they are either symptoms or causes of your problem. There's actually a man page for resolv.conf, but I didn't understand what it said about "domain" and "search".

I trust the DNS server addresses are what your ISP told you?

---

### Post by RefinersFire on 2010-04-10
The laptop only has one line, 127.0.0.1 in resolv.conf

Resolv.conf does not populate any further than 127.0.0.1 for nameserver with the laptop even when directly connected to the modem.


The desktop I am on typing this right now has the other lines and it works fine. For this desktop, every line in resolv.conf was populated by my ISP.


That's where I am baffled. The laptop could get a local IP address from the router, but cannot connect to the internet. It will not get a nameserver or connect to the internet when directly connected to the modem. This desktop is working fine on the router, or modem directly. This is why I think it is a problem with the OS or the drivers.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-04-10
> **RefinersFire said:**
> Resolv.conf does not populate any further than 127.0.0.1 for nameserver with the laptop even when directly connected to the modem.

The desktop I am on typing this right now has the other lines and it works fine. For this desktop, every line in resolv.conf was populated by my ISP.

That's where I am baffled. The laptop could get a local IP address from the router, but cannot connect to the internet. It will not get a nameserver or connect to the internet when directly connected to the modem. This desktop is working fine on the router, or modem directly. This is why I think it is a problem with the OS or the drivers.

Actually, the lines in resolv.conf on your desktop came from your router.

Having 127.0.0.1 as a nameserver is obviously wrong.  Did you specify a static IP address? If so, you have to provide the DNS server info.

---

### Post by RefinersFire on 2010-04-13
If resolv.conf comes from the router, then why will the laptop not populate anything from the modem when connected directly?

I made the resolv.conf and /etc/networks/interface the same as this desktop and still... I could connect to the router's interface, but no where past. When I connect the laptop to the modem directly, it will not connect to anything, anywhere.

---

