---
title: "Refuses to acknowledge new FX card if first one is in"
date: 2011-06-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by antar on 2011-06-27
Okay, some background: I built my computer myself about a year ago. Bought a mid-range Nvidia graphics card. The FX card's fan was noisy, so about six months ago, I removed the fan. I have some awesome fans in my case, and I thought they'd be sufficient to cool it. Turns out I was wrong, and about a week ago, my monitors went dark. When I opened my case to investigate, the FX card was searing hot. Turns out it had been running in the red for these past six months. Not good. Gave the FX card a chance to cool, put it back in, turned computer back on, and everything came back, but I figure it's the beginning of the end.

So I bought a new graphics card. Different model, still Nvidia. Only problem is that the old card's not dead yet, and I stubbornly want to keep it until it dies, either to run a third monitor or for CUDA computation.

So I put the second card in and transfer all the monitor hookups to the new card, boot up my computer... and nothing appears on the screen. I plug in a third monitor into the old card, and, as one would expect, it's only recognizing the old one. That's fine. I run Nvidia X server settings and enable the monitors on the new card. Only problem is that it wants the monitor attached to the old card to be the "primary."

So I yank out the old card and try to coax my computer to accept the new one. After some fiddling around, it works.

Then I plug in the old card.

Now, it refuses to even acknowledge the EXISTENCE of the new card. The only way to get my computer to recognize the new card is to take out the old one.

Anyone know of a way to cure my computer of its unhealthy fixation on its old, dying card while still utilizing it? I'd think I should need to poke around with xorg.conf, but I haven't been having the best of luck with that.

System-specifics:
[LIST]
[*]Ubuntu 10.04 (64-bit)
[*]Running the latest Nvidia binary drivers
[*]The old card is a GTS 240. The new one is a GT 430
[/LIST]

---

### Post by antar on 2011-06-28
Oh, here's my Xorg.conf file for when I have only the new card in, and everything's properly configured:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 275.09.07  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-03.nvidia.com)  Wed Jun  8 14:38:19 PDT 2011

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 275.09.07  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-03.nvidia.com)  Wed Jun  8 14:38:32 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "1"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic VA2431 Series"
    HorizSync       24.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL E153FP"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 61.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GT 430"
    BusID          "PCI:7:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GT 430"
    BusID          "PCI:7:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-06-28
Unless you have SLI support and identical cards, you can't run 2 cards at once. As far as I know.

---

### Post by antar on 2011-06-28
Solved! Or, at least, got a workaround going.

Apparently it matters to my mobo the positioning of the GPUs in the PCI slots. The older GPU was in a lower-numbered PCI slot, so that's why it kept going back to it. I reversed the placements of the GPUs, and now it works great!

---

