---
title: "[8.04] Acer aspire 5720"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-04-25
Hello,

Today i am trying to install the new kubuntu on my laptop. But for some reason i don't get anything projected on my screen. The load procedure works fine but after that my screen goes to blank and my laptop doesn't do anything.
Does someone have a solution for this problem or the same problem?

Thanks,
LeDieu

ps: I am talking about the live session of kubuntu 8.04

[edit]
apparently kubuntu is running because when i touch my off button kubuntu shuts down perfectly
[/edit]

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-04-27
I have the problem with both the cd's.
So the kde4 remix and the normal kubuntu don't work.
Somebody the same problem?

---

### Post by tarique on 2008-04-28
Hi. This is my first post here although I have been an avid reader of these forums for a few years and a fan of Ubuntu since 5.04.

I also have an Acer 5720G and it was working beautifully with Gutsy. I tried to do a fresh install using the live Hardy CD but it would not load the live environment. I then downloaded the alternative CD, did the install (which went smoothly), but I am facing the blank screen problem.

I left it for sometime but the HD is not showing any activity.

I have hardy on my desktop and its working flawlessly it is also faster on the same hardware than Gutsy.

I add my voice to LeDieu here and appreciate any help. Going back to Vista is no fun at all!!

as a side note: before the fresh install I tried an upgrade. That kind of worked, but the wireless stopped working (intel 3945), switching desktops stopped, and restricted manager wont work. Thought a fresh install will fix these issues.

---

### Post by Malekish on 2008-04-28
I have a similar laptop (acer 5315-2153) and had no problems with my install of Kubuntu, in fact graphics work much better under Kubuntu than under Ubuntu.

Try running an Ubuntu or another xxbuntu live cd and see if they work better?

---

### Post by tarique on 2008-04-29
**LeDieu,**

Sorry I did not notice you were talking about the live session. Use the alternative CD for installation.

If after installation you still receive the blank screen issue (as I did), follow the guide here to install the ati drivers:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide")

I suggest downloading the above file in another machine before hand and transferring it through USB. However once you set up an internet connection you can use the following command to download the file (make sure you are in the /root, and not /):
```
wget https://a248.e.akamai.net/f/674/9206/0/www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/ati-driver-installer-8-4-x86.x86_64.run
```

Before installation make sure you know how to configure the internet connection using ifconfig and route.
**ifconfig [network card] [ip] netmask [netmask] broadcast [broadcast]**
example: ```
ifconfig eth0 19.168.1.5 netmask 255.255.255.0 broadcast 192.168.1.255
```
and
**route add default gateway [default internet gateway ip]**
example: ```
route add default gateway 192.168.1.1
```

to check your settings just enter ifconfig eth0 or route and press enter. It should show you the current settings.

**Malekish,**

The Acer 5720G seems to be built from the ground up not to support linux! seems to be a trend with Acer machines. I like the laptop, the price, but this series model always gives Ubuntu a hard time. With Gutsy, the live environment worked without an issue, however after installation I had no display and had to go through the above process.

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-04-29
Thanks for your reply. 
I have followed the complete guide and i have tried the 2 given methods. I have more than in the beginning. But still it doesn't work.
I have a complete configured xorg.conf file. And when i run startx i get a screen with a message in the left upper corner with the message: "Could not start kstartupconfig. Check your installation"
And if i run fglrxinfo i get the message: "Error: unable to open display (null)"

I hope you can help me further.

Thanks for so far,
LeDieu.

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-04-29
It all works fine now. Your link to the ubuntu guide worked perfectly. The only thing that has to be added is: If you installed (k)ubuntu from the alternative cd you will have to reboot your system after you preformed all the action form the guide.

Thanks,
LeDieu

---

### Post by tarique on 2008-04-29
Glad it worked. 

I know this not the right place to ask, but I am wondering if your wireless card is the intel 3945 and if it worked. I am still trying to get mine to work.

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-04-29
> **tarique said:**
> Glad it worked. 

I know this not the right place to ask, but I am wondering if your wireless card is the intel 3945 and if it worked. I am still trying to get mine to work.

Yea mine is working right out of the box. Strange that it doesn't work at your laptop.
Do you get any errors?

---

### Post by tarique on 2008-04-30
You must be one of the lucky few!

It is a common problem to so many people in the forums. The card is recognized and everything seems to work properly, however it fails to discover any wireless access points. The access point is not hidden.

I will wait for an update because I already exhausted most of the solutions in the forums.

---

### Post by frodon on 2008-04-30
Be careful all acer 5720G are not the same mine have nvidia graphic for example, it's running fine on gutsy and i will try to upgrade next month i think.

---

### Post by tarique on 2008-04-30
I never knew the 5720G comes with Nvidia graphics. Mine has the Ati HD 2300 with 128MB memory.

I was able to get the wireless working using wcid.

The funny thing is it seems Acer's tend not to be that Linux friendly. I also never managed more than one hour and a half battery life with both Gutsy and Hardy. However Vista gives me two and a half hours easily.

Almost everything else works and sound works out of the box unlike gutsy. 

The good thing is that hardy seems to be faster than gutsy. I am not sure if it is hardy or the filesystem. Gutsy was on ReiserFs and hardy is on ext3 which theoritacly is slower but seems to work better.

The other issue I have is a shared NTFS partition between hardy and vista. when I accessed it using hardy it worked. but when i booted back into vista it was not there. will research further.

---

### Post by frodon on 2008-04-30
My battery life is short too, i guess acer are bad for power saving and linux is known to be less efficient in term of power saving so this explain this result which seem common to all acer 5720 series.
As comparison my sister's mac book has 4h of battery life.

As for acer laptops mine worked almost right out of the box with gutsy (just needed to fix sound) although wifi would hard lock computer in case of long and high traffic (> 400Kb/s but it's driver fault).

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-04-30
> **tarique said:**
> I never knew the 5720G comes with Nvidia graphics. Mine has the Ati HD 2300 with 128MB memory.

I was able to get the wireless working using wcid.

The funny thing is it seems Acer's tend not to be that Linux friendly. I also never managed more than one hour and a half battery life with both Gutsy and Hardy. However Vista gives me two and a half hours easily.

Almost everything else works and sound works out of the box unlike gutsy. 

The good thing is that hardy seems to be faster than gutsy. I am not sure if it is hardy or the filesystem. Gutsy was on ReiserFs and hardy is on ext3 which theoritacly is slower but seems to work better.

The other issue I have is a shared NTFS partition between hardy and vista. when I accessed it using hardy it worked. but when i booted back into vista it was not there. will research further.

I have the exact same problem with my battery to.
Strange.... because a class mate has a Asus and can work for 2 hours sometimes even longer.

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-05-01
Shall i post the two questions about the shutdown and the battery problem on launchpad? Or has someone already done this?

LeDieu.

---

### Post by frodon on 2008-05-01
What battery and what shutdown problem ?

Battery is short but normal considering how bad acer laptops are about powersaving, if you want to increase your battery life you can play with laptop_mode.
Power saving is surely one of the things kernel devs are working hard on.

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-05-01
Ow im sorry the shutdown problem is an other topic :S sorry.
But thanks for the tip of the battery life save i didn't knew that.

---

### Post by frodon on 2008-05-01
I don't know if laptop_mode still work in hardy but it's for sure the best way to control how your laptop use ressourses.

I have filled a bug report for missing documentation about this, feel free to comment the bug report :
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs/+bug/213889](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs/+bug/213889)

---

