---
title: "9.04 doesn't wake from suspend with 4 x 1 GB RAM (Asus A8V Deluxe)"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mrowth on 2009-04-28
Problem: I can't resume from suspend to RAM with all 4 DIMMs inserted for the full 4 GB RAM (2.8V CL2 DDR1 Xtreme-whathaveyou RAM by OCZ). Asus A8V Deluxe mainboard, AMD Athlon X2 4800+, Nvidia Geforce 7950 GT, (K)Ubuntu 9.04 32 bit. I know I can't get the full 4 GB with a 32 bit OS, but I might switch once I'm more confident compiling my little niche apps, etc.

The fan spins up and the keyboard LEDs flash as usual, but the screen(s) won't wake up, the system seems locked or unresponsive, and nothing's written to pm-suspend.log after (say) "Tue Apr 28 21:34:56 CEST 2009: performing suspend". (It should, of course, continue "Tue Apr 28 21:35:07 CEST 2009: Awake." and emit a stream of success reports.)

So I don't know what to diagnose here. Kernel line adds noapic and acpi_sleep=s3_mode,s3_bios which have always seemed necessary. 

Tried from tty1 with sudo pm-suspend and from KDE 4.2.2 per "Leave" options. Same thing either way I believe.

Sure, I can use just 3 DIMMS for the usual 3 GB and it'll work, but would that still be a dual channel configuration? Not that dual channel seems to make all that much of a difference. But it's an un-recommended configuration, as far as the manual is concerned. It might "cause memory sizing errors or system boot failure". (Yah, well, but the recommended configuration definitely causes wake-from-suspend failure.)

I tried it with and without the BIOS "hardware memory hole" setting.

Just when I thought suspend to RAM was finally working *every single time.* Murrr..

[COLOR="Gray"][SIZE="3"](As for the **first** problem: POST stopped with something like "USB overcurrent detected! Computer will shut down in 15 seconds!". I used to see a similar message while resuming from suspend even with just 3 GB RAM, and had gotten used to it, but it'd never appeared during POST. I couldn't even enter BIOS setup or boot anything. It complained about this even without any USB devices or frontplate hubs connected.  The 4 USB voltage jumpers were all in their default places, too. I eventually down-flashed the BIOS from version 1017 to 1015.002, which doesn't check for USB overcurrent situations (uh!). Then I could boot again.)
[/SIZE][/COLOR]

---

