---
title: "8.10 as dual boot w/Vista"
date: 2008-06-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Chappy7777 on 2008-06-06
Mistake:8.04, since 8.10 is not alive yet. I haven't been on the forums for awhile, since my PC is happy as is, thanks to 7.04.

A friend is getting a new Dell laptop, but not one that comes with Ubuntu installed. He wants more horsepower than the Dell-Ub offers.

My question is: since he has no access to any form of broadband, and his dialup is limited to 2.9K (aka slow!). I assume since the machine comes with hardware (and software) installed for Windows Vista, he'll be okay there. But will he be able to run Ubuntu 8.04 on it? Most particular, will he be able to access the net w/only a modem. My thought is that since it's a Windows machine, it will have a software modem, MS ready. Being as this is a laptop, I don't know myself. I am still using Feisty 7.04 (quite happily), so I have no copy of 8.04 live for him to try when the Dell man shows up.

Since he wants a Ubuntu Laptop, and is familiar with Ubuntu on his desktop, shouldn't he just get the Dell machine ready made for Linux? That way he may have a slightly slower machine, but it works. I have to say in my friends' defense that the machine seems to be quite slow. CPU is 1.6Gig. Isn't that slow for a new machine in the summer of '08?

Please answer asap, before he orders the thing.

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-06-06
first of all the current version is 8.04.  As for the easiest way to get it with a slow internet connection you could request a free cd from ubuntu: [https://shipit.ubuntu.com/](https://shipit.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by Chappy7777 on 2008-06-06
> **tamoneya said:**
> first of all the current version is 8.04.  As for the easiest way to get it with a slow internet connection you could request a free cd from ubuntu: [https://shipit.ubuntu.com/](https://shipit.ubuntu.com/)

As you can see I noticed and corrected my mistake. Didn't figure how to do so in the "Header" however.

I did order a CD of 8.04 already for myself, and I'll surely let him use it.

Thanks for answering so quick!

---

### Post by Chappy7777 on 2008-06-07
bumping for friend's sake

---

