---
title: "[8.04] Crash at shutdown or logout"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-04-29
Hey,

I don't know what the problem is but my kubuntu keeps crashing when i choose the shutdown or logout option in KDE. The shutdown function works perfectly when i execute it in the console.

Anybody the same problem or a solution for this problem?

Greetz,
LeDieu

---

### Post by piousp on 2008-04-29
Woohoo! Someone else with the same problem! (lol)
Its the same: I chose to shutdown my laptop from kde, and it appers to kill X, but the computer stays on (i cant enter the terminals). I havent tried to shutdown it from the konsole.

---

### Post by miciurin on 2008-04-29
Same problem here. It works from the terminal with sudo shutdown, but it hangs with a blank screen if using the UI buttons.

In my case I am poositive it is the Ati driver. The problem only appeared after installing the ati driver. If I uninstall the ati driver then it shuts down normally.

I do not have a clue how this can be fixed.

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-04-29
> **miciurin said:**
> Same problem here. It works from the terminal with sudo shutdown, but it hangs with a blank screen if using the UI buttons.

In my case I am poositive it is the Ati driver. The problem only appeared after installing the ati driver. If I uninstall the ati driver then it shuts down normally.

I do not have a clue how this can be fixed.

I to have ATI drivers. And i also think that that is the problem.

---

### Post by piousp on 2008-04-29
At least its the same for the 3 of us: ATI's fault.
Lets see who else have this problem.
In the mean time, i'll use the terminal i guess.

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-05-01
Maybe a good idea to post this issue at launchpad.
Or is this already done by one of you?

---

### Post by kislo_metal on 2008-05-01
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=776036](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=776036)  - same problem...

---

### Post by piousp on 2008-05-01
Yep, looks like a bug.

---

### Post by keenmonkey on 2008-05-01
I saw this error after I had made a typo in the default-display-manager trying to troubleshoot the same problem.

fglrx(0): [drm] failed to remove DRM signal handles

So this supports the ATI driver problem.  I tried installing the newest 8.476(?) drivers from ATI, but they continue to show an older version via AMDCCCLE.  Trying to figure out how to completely remove any ATI drivers before proceeding further...

--M

---

### Post by piousp on 2008-05-02
[This may help]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide#Method_2:_Manual_Method")

---

### Post by keenmonkey on 2008-05-02
Thanks for the link.  That got me back to where I started before screwing around trying to fix this.  The specific problem of not logging out properly was easily fixed by killing atieventsd per this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4300658#post4300658](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4300658#post4300658)

Graphics in general actually seem more responsive now, and I can log out, restart, etc.

--M

---

### Post by LeDieu on 2008-05-02
This works for me :D Thanks

>  sudo /usr/sbin/update-rc.d -f atieventsd remove

---

### Post by piousp on 2008-05-02
I ran into some troubles so i did a fresh install.
I haven't 'activated' my ATI card, but everything works great!
Now i'm not sure if i want those drivers :-k

---

