---
title: "14.04 Epson Stylus SX2xx problems with printing"
date: 2014-10-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by adrian1822 on 2014-10-17
hi!

I've already installed my printer Epson Stylus SX218 (similar SX200/210/215).
It works fine, but I've got several problems:

1) I can't print monochrome (although I choose monochrome).
2) I can't find "Draft mode" so everytime i waste a lot of ink.

Kernel: 3.17
Driver: escpr 1.4.2-1lsb3.2

Thank you very much!

Regards

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-10-17
Hi, Adrian.

Well, now; I have exactly the same printer as you...the good ol' SX218. I take it you managed to install the driver offered by the system when you first added the printer? That's amazing; most people find it gets about halfway through, and then just hangs..!

I believe you'll probably find that monochrome doesn't work under Ubuntu. However, I have 'grayscale' on my settings, which I think is the same as monochrome. I also have 'Draft'...

I used the original Linux driver for the SX218, which was developed by a Japanese firm called Avasys. You can find the driver in question [here]("http://www.openprinting.org/driver/epson-workforce-320-sx218/").

The Epson supplied driver, although newer than the one I've given you, is not such a good one; it doesn't work as well, to be honest.....and a lot of features are missing. Give this one a try, and let me know how you get on with it.

Have you sorted the scanner out yet?

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by adrian1822 on 2014-10-19
Thank you VERY MUCH! it's work now.

Btw. I've a second question. Do you know if it's a driver for SHARP AR-153EN (I'vent found anywhere).

Regards

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-10-19
Hm. Enlighten me; what IS a Sharp AR-153EN?

Regards,

Mike.

EDIT: I've done a fair bit of Googling, and I think you're on your own with that one. I cannot locate a Linux driver for your Sharp copier anywhere, which really leaves you two options. Either run a Windows machine JUST for that one application, OR.....you might have to adapt a similar Linux driver for it (and unless you're good at programming I can't see that's really an option for most people).

Sorry about that.

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2014-10-19
> **Mike_Walsh said:**
> Hm. Enlighten me; what IS a Sharp AR-153EN?

Regards,

Mike.

Googling indicates it is a Printer.

Cheers - :p

---

### Post by adrian1822 on 2014-10-19
Thank you very much guys!

Yep it's printer which has no similar driver :( . So i have to use Widnows as VM.

Regards!

---

### Post by adrian1822 on 2014-10-20
Epson still doesn't rint in monochrome (only first 2-3 pages are whole in grayscale).

Any ideas?

---

