---
title: "8.04 nvidia-glx-new Problem"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by phillipgi on 2008-04-26
On a fresh install of Hardy using the nv driver, my PC works fine. Installing the nvidia-glx-new driver from restricted-driver-manager works fine, until my computer restarts.

First I see the usplash as normal, but when GDM loads, my monitor turns off ('Going to sleep'). I can hear the log on sound, and can log on, but there's nothing on my monitor. I've also tried EnvyNG with no luck.

I currently run AMD64 (and have tried two fresh installs) and have also tried i386, both seem to have the same issue.

My graphics card is an NVIDIA GeForce 6200.

'lspci -nn | grep VGA' reports:
```
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: nVidia Corporation NV44 [GeForce 6200 TurboCache(TM)] [10de:0161] (rev a1)
```

This is driving me mad - does anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by tompagenet on 2008-04-26
I can't promise this will help, but I had exactly the same problem (black screen, but still working away unseen to me) with my old GeForce Go 400 nVidia card. I found that when I used EnvyNG to install the driver everything worked fine. You can get EnvyNG from the package manager.

Tom

---

### Post by phillipgi on 2008-04-26
Hi Tom,

Thanks, but I tried EnvyNG on my last install (I've re-installed since then) and it didn't work. On top of that, it messed up my database and I couldn't remove the driver it installed.

Cheers,
Phill

---

### Post by phillipgi on 2008-04-26
Sorted this now. For some reason, the newest nvidia driver (169.12) shipped with Ubuntu and available on the NVIDIA website (169.17?) don't work with my card.

I removed the nvidia-glx-new from the Ubuntu repositories and installed driver 96.43.05 using EnvyNG, rebooted and had OpenGL. I had to use the nvidia settings manager to set my resolution back to 1280x1024 (I was only offered up to 1024x768 at first), but all's now working.

---

