---
title: "16.04|16.10 Get mouse speed setting to stick? (resets during session)"
date: 2017-02-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-02-21
I am running 64-bit Ubuntu 16.10, but this also applies to 16.04 where the default mouse acceleration was greatly increased.

Where is default mouse setting stored? 16.04 greatly increased the default acceleration setting for the mouse which may work fine for a mousepad, but is way too fast for a regular mouse. Moving the mouse less than 1/2" (1 cm) flies the cursor fully across the 1920 pixels of a 1080p screen and otherwise moves around so fast that I often cannot even tell where the cursor is.

There has been what I think has been a longstanding bug that System Settings > Mouse & Touchpad does not have any movement settings for any wireless pointing device. I would like to specifically reduce acceleration of a mouse while not affecting acceleration of a mousepad on a wireless or BT keyboard.

These are my devices:```
$ xinput --list
&#9121; Virtual core pointer                        id=2    [master pointer  (3)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Virtual core XTEST pointer                  id=4    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Microsoft Microsoft® SiderWinderTM X4 Keyboard    id=9    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Logitech K400                               id=10    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Logitech MX Master                          id=11    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Logitech diNovo Edge                        id=12    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9123; Virtual core keyboard                       id=3    [master keyboard (2)]
    &#8627; Virtual core XTEST keyboard                 id=5    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                                id=6    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                                id=7    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Microsoft Microsoft® SiderWinderTM X4 Keyboard    id=8    [slave  keyboard (3)]
```

**xinput set-ptr-feedback 11 5 2 1** does exactly what I want it to. And I added that to Startup Application Preferences similar to [http://www.pontikis.net/blog/fix-mouse-sensitivity-ubuntu](http://www.pontikis.net/blog/fix-mouse-sensitivity-ubuntu)

So that works when X starts. However, after some time during an X session, something keeps resetting the mouse to the fast default. Now that I think about it, maybe the mouse goes to sleep and mouse speed is reset to default when it wakes up again. So maybe I need to add something to /lib/udev/rules.d, but not quite sure how to automatically run the xinput command when a mouse connects. Would **xset** remain set any better than **xinput**? Otherwise if I could find where the default setting is and change that, I could just switch it if using a mousepad which would be much less frequently than I use a regular mouse.

PS: So far I don't think it is the wireless mouse going to sleep that resets it, because even though I turned the mouse itself off last night and on this morning, my xinput setting held. But I was not locking the screen when it shut off, so need to see if logging in after screen lock resets it.

PPS: Not sure why it appeared to be resetting, but I have not noticed it doing that since I posted this. As a startup program I run "xinput set-ptr-feedback 11 5 2 1" and that is working fine now.

---

