---
title: "UNR intel Classmate touch screen"
date: 2009-06-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ds5150 on 2009-06-08
I have installed UNR 9.04 on an intel classmate. everything works but the touch screen. i can move the mouse pointer to a button an tap the screen and it works but i cant move the pointer with the stylus.

any ideas where to start

thanks

EDIT:used drivers from [http://www.eturbotouch.com.tw/english/s_download_center.asp](http://www.eturbotouch.com.tw/english/s_download_center.asp)


Works great

---

### Post by timh on 2009-06-10
Can you post or DM me your xorg.conf file for the classmate tablet? I can't get mine to work with the driver you posted link to.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Paradoxalley on 2009-06-15
please find attached a working (in Jaunty) xorg.conf:
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Module"	 
	Load		 "dbe"
	Load		 "extmod"
	Load		 "dri"
	Load		 "record"
	Load		 "dri2"
	Load		 "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	VendorName	"Intel Corporation"
	BoardName	"Mobile 945GME Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option		"DRI" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"Xkbmodel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"HID TOUCH"
	Driver		"xfhiddrv"
	Option		"Device" "/dev/usb/hiddev0"
	Option		"ScreenNo" "0"
	Option		"Rotation" "0"
	Option		"SwapY" "0"
	Option		"UpSound" "0"
	Option		"DownSound" "0"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"HID TOUCH" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```

PM me if you need help setting it up. 
-Seth

---

### Post by RedAnt on 2009-07-18
I wanted to post a little more information onto this thread to save others some time.

I used the above information on my "SchoolmatePC", recently purchased from Walmart.  It worked immediately except for the eTurboTouch touchscreen and the wireless network card.

The above instructions solved my touchscreen issues, except my input appeared "rotated and backwards by default".  That is when I moved up and down the pointer moved side to side, and when I moved side to side it moved up and down.  Using the "SwapY", I could get it to change somewhat but it still wasn't correct.  I then noticed the "Rotation" option and incorrectly tried setting it's value to "90", which did nothing.  

Eventually I figured out that a "Rotation" value of "1" effected my screen but I still couldn't find a value of "SwapY" or "SwapX" that worked for me.  After a lot of searching and not finding anything describing the values I tried using "2", which did actually get me closer.  

My final "Rotation" value was "3", which matches my touchscreen perfectly.

My "xorg.conf" file looks like the one above except for the following line in the "InputDevice" section:

    Option        "Rotation" "3"

Thanks for all the great info, I hope this helps the next person out as much as this thread helped solve my touchscreen problems.

As for my wireless problem,  I think I've found that it's a driver bug that has been fixed in newer kernel and wireless drivers.   Unfortunately I'm new to Ubuntu and this Netbook, so I'm not really ready to run the "bleeding edge" quite yet.  Perhaps I'll give it a shot on another SD card?:KS

---

### Post by mayhem.sci on 2009-10-11
Hi i just installed Ubuntu 9.04 NBR on my classmate pc, I found that besides touchscreen, I have two other problems:
1. The screen remains dim after waking up from sleep.
2. The accelerometer does not work (swiveling it to tablet mode does not change orientation).

Did you guys have these working out of the box?

---

### Post by mezhaka on 2009-10-28
> **mayhem.sci said:**
> Hi i just installed Ubuntu 9.04 NBR on my classmate pc, I found that besides touchscreen, I have two other problems:
1. The screen remains dim after waking up from sleep.
2. The accelerometer does not work (swiveling it to tablet mode does not change orientation).

Did you guys have these working out of the box?

exactly the same problems (including non usable touchscreen wich was fixed using Paradoxalley xorg.conf above)

---

### Post by mezhaka on 2009-10-28
Do these problems show themself on a pre-installed ubuntu, or you've installed it on your own?

---

### Post by mezhaka on 2009-10-31
A list of cons I've encountered so far:
**Ubuntu 9.04**
Dim screen after waking up from sleep.

Touchscreen does not work out of the box.

When you rotate screen into tablet mode the screen layout does not rotates. I have to go to preferences and change orientation, but then the touchscreen and touchpad go out of sync and I have to edit the xorg.conf (Rotation parameter) and to restart X for changes to take an effect, which in place shuts down all the running applications and makes the switch to tablet mode to much hussle to deal with. 
The settings for the applications like the FBReader have to be as well adjusted every time you rotate the screen.

Xournal does not work at all. Neither with touchscreen, nor with touchpad.

Touchscreen calibration does not work as well. At the corners the point you touch the screen is shifted for about half the size of the pointer arrow, which makes it much more difficult to hit the cross button to close the window.

I also could not figure out how to do a mouse right-click with a stylus.

**Ubuntu 9.10**
After the upgrade the touchscreen stopped working and the wireless as well.

---

