---
title: "8.04 suspend/hibernate almost perfect"
date: 2008-07-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by steveyeager on 2008-07-16
I have an HP dv6113us and installed Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.  Right from the start, without any modifications, it suspends and hibernates successfully - everytime I have tried (say 10-20 times each).  Only distro I have tried that has had this much success.

Only remaining issues are:

Hibernate sometimes does not turn off computer.  Have not found out why it will sometimes and not others.  Maybe has something to do with how long the system is running or what is running.  It worked once when I had several apps running, including a web browser with a flash playing when I hibernated - it shut down perfectly and when I restarted the system, it started the browser and continued playing the flash video (wow).  Yet sometimes, it hibernates, stops writing to the harddrive, and sits there with screen off but all lights on so after several minutes, I just have to power it off.  Any way to resolve this?

Sleep never awakens.  If I let the system sleep (according to gnome power manager), it blanks the screen and seems to sleep but when I access the touchpad, the screen never displays.  Screen sleep seems to be the same.  Would like to resolve this also.

Finally, I would like to have the system suspend automatically whenever it is idle for a period.  Possibly, I can define sleep as suspend in the gnome power manager.  How can I do this?

I love that I can ask these questions.  Ubuntu is the best distro for me, by far.

Thanks in advance.

---

