---
title: "13.10 Radeon 9xxx drivers linux vs ATI/AMD drivers"
date: 2014-03-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by cdoublejj on 2014-03-21
have a 9600 and 9800 both 128mb. obviously the 9800 is better however in general with the stock drivers they run great they even run YOUTUBE! Youtube is ultra max demanding on old Pentium 4 systems like this one but, it runs and smoothly enough to enjoy so i assume 25-30 fps. It even runs minecraft! However minecraft is short lived before it becomes corrupted with artifacts till it's not playable. this happens with both cards so it's driver issue as far as i can tell.

Any ways that brings me to the next issue.. are there AMD/ATI drivers? if so i have to wonder if if youtube performance will suffer if i install them?

Dell Dimension 4400
Lubuntu 13.10
Pentium 4 2.2 Ghz 512kb 400mhz
1gb ddr 266 (2x 512)
20gb IDE HDD
CD-Rom
Floppy
Wifi
Modem
Ethernet
9800 128mb

---

### Post by cdoublejj on 2014-03-21
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Saucy_Installation_Guide#The_Options](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Saucy_Installation_Guide#The_Options)

ARE YOU FREAKING SERIOUS!!?? 

well i gues linux -1 and windows +1. even windows 7 has drivers for a 9000 series.

surely there is some sort of solution.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-03-22
Hello!

Windows does not have drivers.  Microsoft does not write the drivers for those cards.  ATI does.  ATI makes sure the drivers are update and continue to work under Windows so they can be included in the MS driverbase -- a privilege. ATI has not maintained the drivers for those older cards for Linux since about 2008.

There is no solution, unless you can get ATI to maintain the driver.  Otherwise, you can use the default open source Radeon driver.

---

### Post by cdoublejj on 2014-03-22
yeah  i realized that after i thought about it for while. why do i have the sneaking suspicion that the legacy nvidia cards probably have working drivers? Actualy i can't use the defualt open source drive. unfrotuanlty i'm gonna have to switch to windows or magicly find an nvidia card that is as fast or faster than the 9800 (all assuming nvidia cards have better support).

i guess i'll see just how well windows 7 will run i've put it on similar systems with decent performance but, Lubuntu is definitely lighter and faster even just by a small bit.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-03-22
So, did you install Ubuntu with a card of that series and weren't able to get anything on your monitors?

---

### Post by cdoublejj on 2014-03-22
okay i guess i got upset. i installed Ubuntu with those cards. things work fairly well but, there are artifacts like as if it was hardware issue.... except i just now noticed some funny looking fonts in the bios too. i'm wondering if maybe it is a hardware issue but, its odd that minecraft messes up on both cards. maybe both cards need a re flow or maybe the 9800 has artifacts on top of the open source driver bugs.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-03-22
Minecraft can be fairly demanding on memory from what I've read, so it may just be that you don't have enough system or video RAM.
You may want to try increasing the size of your swap partition..

---

### Post by cdoublejj on 2014-03-22
well i think that is what's going that there is some kind of buffer overflow issues due to the open source driver being of such poor quality. grant it seems to do 2d pretty well.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-03-22
> **cdoublejj said:**
> due to the open source driver being of such poor quality

When I had a Radeon X1300 and RadeonHD4550 running the opensource driver, it always worked well for supertuxkart, some S/NES emulation and basic wine gaming. I can't say I ever tried Minecraft though...

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-03-22
You may get better open source driver with this ppa [https://launchpad.net/~oibaf/+archive/graphics-drivers](https://launchpad.net/~oibaf/+archive/graphics-drivers), there has been a flurry of progress lately especially on the open source radeon drive. Not sure if it is relevant to older cards but worth a try. 

Install ppa-purge so in case it is worse you can revert to the default.

---

### Post by cdoublejj on 2014-03-23
> **Temüjin said:**
> When I had a Radeon X1300 and RadeonHD4550 running the opensource driver, it always worked well for supertuxkart, some S/NES emulation and basic wine gaming. I can't say I ever tried Minecraft though...

However those are newer cards and supported by the official drivers and also being newer probably have a little better open source driver support. also snes emulation is 2d and i think mainly cpu driven.

> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> You may get better open source driver with this ppa [https://launchpad.net/~oibaf/+archive/graphics-drivers](https://launchpad.net/~oibaf/+archive/graphics-drivers), there has been a flurry of progress lately especially on the open source radeon drive. Not sure if it is relevant to older cards but worth a try. 

Install ppa-purge so in case it is worse you can revert to the default.

i'll give that try.

also i didn't want to do this but, i got another system that has i think agp 8x so i'll give  this old x1550 a try with this faster system however being faster i may go the way of windows 7 if it has the horse power but, i'm not giving up on lubuntu just yet.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-03-24
> However those are newer cards and supported by the official drivers
Official fglrx/Catalyst driver support for those cards was dropped (5 years ago in case of X1300), but we're getting off-topic...

What is output of:
```
free -m
```
Have you tried making a bigger swap partition like I suggested earlier?

---

### Post by cdoublejj on 2014-03-24
not yet also it's a fairly small hdd. also how do you make the swap bigger? also 9800 is definitely artifacting but the 9600 is not so it was indeed the driver + hardware faults with the 9800. before i go messing with the swap since it's like 90% driver issue i should try those improved drivers.

However i put 7 on the newer system and it's doing pretty good too even with youtube, except minecraft doesn't run so i'm not sure if both cards are busted or if MC just doens't support these cards that's why things are going weird cause it shouldn't even be running on either system. so now i have 2 systems to test each card in.

EDIT: looks like the cards are just too old. the 9600 is passing stress tests on the windows machine also mc  req say they require open gl 2.1 mot sure what version of open gl these old cards have.

---

### Post by cdoublejj on 2014-04-12
my solution is just to get a different and newer computer and run windows 7 since it be able to handle newer games. so i've abandoned this project for a different one.

---

