---
title: "11.10 Printing is faded"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dwm35 on 2011-10-18
After upgrading to Ubuntu 11.10, my Canon MP610 inkjet printer prints everything very faintly.  Black prints as [COLOR="SlateGray"]grey[/COLOR], [COLOR="Blue"]blue[/COLOR] prints as [COLOR="LightBlue"]light cyan[/COLOR] and so on.

I have tried booting the 11.04 Live CD, and the problem is no longer present; similarly, printing from Windows 7 also produces the expected results.  I am reasonably convinced that the problem is 11.10, not the printer or ink cartridges.

I can see that the drivers are different between 11.04 and 11.10.  On 11.04 I am using the "Canon PIXMA MP610 - CUPS+Gutenprint v5.2.6 Simplified" driver, and on 11.10 the driver version is 5.2.7 (everything else is the same).  

I have tried copying the PPD file found in /etc/cups/ppd from 11.04, but (unsurprisingly?) this results in all prints failing.  

Anyone else experiencing this problem? Any ideas or suggestions? Thank you.

---

### Post by LAN40 on 2012-01-03
Thanks for posting this. I've got exactly the same problem and to this day was unable to find the solution. If you manage to fix the problem -- please let us know.

Thanks.

---

### Post by dwm35 on 2012-02-10
I managed to nearly fix the problem by following the instructions here:

[http://www.upubuntu.com/2011/12/how-to-install-canon-pixma-mp-canon-mx.html](http://www.upubuntu.com/2011/12/how-to-install-canon-pixma-mp-canon-mx.html)

The driver here now prints black as black.  Unfortunately, asking the printer to print double-sided doesn't work.  

Still, at least I can now choose between faded colours and double-sided printing.

I haven't marked the thread as solved as this solution introduces other problems.

---

