---
title: "Satellite P105 giving me a hard time"
date: 2010-12-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Amakahi on 2010-12-05
Ok so I've been at it for two weeks to no avail, so I'm giving in and asking for support.  I have a P105-S921 from Toshiba.  I'm not new to linux but new to installing it correctly and the commands to configure it.  

Thus far, I have updated the nvidia drivers and installed wine 1.2.1 for use with EVE online.  This is mostly what I want this computer used for.  EVE.

Here are my issues: I have no sound.  none whatsoever.  I try to let computer go to screensaver with Xscreensaver 5.11, after a few minutes, the screen whites out with a little color here and there, and locks up.  When attempting to run EVE via wine, I get to where the terms and conditions screen comes up, and then it freezes without showing text.

I don't know what to post to help you guys figure this out, just let me know and I'll try to be prompt.

Here is the current Xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed Sep 29 10:19:47 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Amakahi on 2010-12-15
::Bump::

Nobody?  I was hoping for at least someone to ask me for some information I didn't know how to look up =)

Please if anyone has any ideas to help me configure my satellite correctly I'd really appreciate it.

Despite my first setup not working 100% for me, I still love Ubuntu!  I use it on other comps that are configured correctly and it's a wonderful OS.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-12-15
In a terminal type **sudo lspci -v** and post the part related to video and audio.  If you want to dump that to a file that may be easier to review, do: **sudo lspci -v > lspci.txt**

It is also best to say which Ubuntu version, although, if you just downloaded it recently it is likely Maverick (10.10).

As far as sound, see if **aplay -l** (small L) shows any audio devices (or hangs) or if **alsamixer** shows any device(s) (or which outputs are muted which shows as MM).  You can unmute specific outputs by moving to them and pressing m.

---

### Post by Amakahi on 2010-12-16
Thanks for the response.

in reverse order, first the sound:
################################################
alsamixer: nothing except mic is muted
################################################
aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: CONEXANT Analog [CONEXANT Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: Conexant Digital [Conexant Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
################################################
linux ubuntu version 10.10 maverik meerkat
################################################
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
    Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems AC97 Data Fax SoftModem with SmartCP
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 46
    Memory at b0000000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
    Capabilities: [60] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [70] Express Root Complex Integrated Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [100] Virtual Channel
    Capabilities: [130] Root Complex Link
    Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
    Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel
################################################
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce Go 7900 GS] (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
    Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Device ff31
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 16
    Memory at b2000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
    Memory at c0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
    Memory at b1000000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
    I/O ports at 2000 [size=128]
    Expansion ROM at <unassigned> [disabled]
    Capabilities: [60] Power Management version 2
    Capabilities: [68] MSI: Enable- Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [78] Express Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [100] Virtual Channel
    Capabilities: [128] Power Budgeting <?>
    Kernel driver in use: nvidia
    Kernel modules: nvidia-173, nouveau, nvidiafb
###############################################

I hope that was what you were looking for.  Let me know if there's any other data I can post to help diagnose the issue.

Thanks for taking a look at my issue!

---

