---
title: "1080p VGA"
date: 2014-10-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jajo9871bossrs on 2014-10-12
Hello, I have a pretty weird rig and I'm wondering if i can get it to work with 1920x1080 resolution.

Graphics Card: Radeon HD6850 (with DVI output)
Monitor: Samsung S22C150 (with VGA/DSUB input)

So in order to connect them I have to use Male DVI to Female VGA adapter. I cannot find 1920x1080 resolution and when I try to add this using cvt and xrandr I get "xrandr configure crtc 0" error (on fglrx drivers) and "working" 1920x1080 resolution with big stripes on the sides (with X.org drivers). I tried this on many Ubuntu based distributions or Ubuntu itself and it isn't working.

I'm not good at screens, resolutions and other stuffs, I just want to get it to work like on Windows where I have my screen working, fully filled with good aspect ratio, on 1080p resolution, is it possible?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-10-12
The problem is caused by VGA not supporting those higher resolutions.

I recently had to change my monitor. I brought a digital TV to use as a monitor but it only had inputs for VGA and HDMI and not DVI which I was using with my previous digital TV/monitor. I did not have a HDMI cable so I used VGA and I could not get the full range of resolutions that the monitor was capable of. Not until I purchased and fitted a HDMI cable.

I also suspect that the monitor is a CRT monitor. Modern digital monitors have the resolution information stored in their electronics. It is called Extended Display Identification Data (EDID) and Ubuntu regards this every time it is loaded. This is why we do not need to set the screen resolution when we install Ubuntu. CRT monitor do not have EDID.

Regards.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-10-12
VGA is generally limited to 1600x1200.  You would need to use DVI or HDMI to get high definition.

For a few dollars you can get a DVI-HDMI adapter:  [http://www.monoprice.com/Category?c_id=104&cp_id=10419](http://www.monoprice.com/Category?c_id=104&cp_id=10419)

---

### Post by jajo9871bossrs on 2014-10-12
My Graphics Card has 2 DVI 1 HDMI and my screen has 1 DSUB (just to make it clear ;)) So u what exacly do u want me to buy, ***dvi male to hdmi female*** and then ***hdmi female to dsub male*** to connect it to my screen or what :confused:

---

### Post by MartyBuntu on 2014-10-12
VGA specification has no "maximum" supported resolution.

It's dependent on the graphics card and monitor.

Your graphics card and your monitor have to support the resolution you wish to input (out-of-the-box).

Do you have proprietary drivers installed?

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-10-12
You have a dilemma.  Your monitor only has a VGA connection which is really just an RGB analog connection.  Your graphics card only has 2 DVI and one HDMI connection.  Going from DVI to VGA gives you a limitation.  This limitation could be because the high frequency signals required for 1920x1080 resolution cannot pass through a cheap VGA cable and the DVI-to-VGA dongle.  The graphic card drops resolution based on the monitor's feedback response.  You can try better-quality cables and dongles, or get a monitor with an HDMI connection or DVI connection.

I have been able to get 1920x1080 through a VGA cable, but smearing was so bad that I had to drop down resolution to make it useable.  The only way to get full, native resolution was to buy a docking station that had DVI built-in and use the DVI port, since my laptop did not have a built-in DVI connector.  So 1600x1200 seems to be frequency-driven limit and one of the reasons for DVI to be developed for higher-resolution displays.

So, you can ignore my advice about getting a DVI-HDMI dongle.

---

