---
title: "Swap Partition doesn't mount"
date: 2010-01-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Jugney on 2010-01-14
I installed Karmic Koala when it came out back in October. I wiped my computer, used the partitioner on installation, and went from there. 

Off and on I got a message on bootup (not the dmesg type string of messages, but a message under the Ubuntu logo where the bar is going from side to side) to the effect of 

"One or more of the partitions listed in /etc/fstab could not mount..." 

and then it showed swap as the partition that failed. I heard you're supposed to give twice as much space to swap as you have of physical RAM. I have 2GB RAM and only gave 3.29GB to swap to leave space for another partition I needed. Could this be part of the problem? I've attached a screenshot of what GParted shows.

My system has functioned normally, so I haven't addressed the error message. But I recently read 25 seconds is an average bootup time for Karmic, and mine has always been more like 45-50. So I looked in dmesg for processes that took a long time and saw there was a section with a huge gap:

```
[   11.972774] EXT4-fs (sda1): 22 orphan inodes deleted
[   11.972778] EXT4-fs (sda1): recovery complete
[   12.031832] EXT4-fs (sda1): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode
[   38.128799] udev: starting version 147
```

Since this is about mounting filesystems, I thought it might relate to the swap. Here is etc/fstab:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=e2864693-0a48-4ab3-8159-c0446eeb98dc / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/sda5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Windows\040Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
none /proc/bus/usb usbfs devgid=122,devmode=664 0 0
```

What do you think?

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-01-14
In fstab it's looking for Swap on /dev/sda5 
In gparted it's /dev/sda3

---

### Post by Jugney on 2010-01-14
So all I do is change sda5 to sda3 in fstab?

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2010-01-14
> **Jugney said:**
> So all I do is change sda5 to sda3 in fstab?

Yep, then run:
```
sudo swapon /dev/sda3
```
and check if it's detected:
```
free -m
```

---

### Post by Jugney on 2010-01-14
OK, so that partition appears to be mounting OK now, although I see no performance difference, and the boot process is the same.

There is an error message I see during boot after the underscore flashes on the black screen for 15 seconds, but it doesn't show up in dmesg or the syslog. I was able to pause the screen during boot and write it down:

```
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.16
/dev/sda1: clean, 462203/579936 files, 17187034/23193835 blocks
init: ureadahead-other main process (808) terminated with status 2
mountall: Event failed
```

Seeing the fsck name, I decided to uninstall autofsck to remove variables, with the command sudo dpkg -r autofsck. The message remains the same though.

Any ideas?

---

