---
title: "10.04 Video problems?"
date: 2011-02-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by TMC on 2011-02-22
I have a program I'm trying to run under Wine which is segfaulting without a backtrace.  The Wine gurus over at the Wine forum have said that this is symptomatic of badly installed video drivers, rather than a fault with Wine, which should produce a backtrace on a segfault.

I have tried reinstalling the drivers, but the program still segfaults, so I've come over here to see if there's any advice I can get on the video drivers before taking it back to the Wine forum.

I have an nVidia card and am using the nVidia-current restricted driver.  I have purged the nouveau driver using sudo apt-get --purge remove xserver-xorg-video-nouveau as instructed in the community documentation; however, an lspci shows that the nouveau kernel module is still there - could this be the problem and if so, how do I fix it?

Output from lspci follows.  Many thanks,

David Shaw


00:12.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation C67 [GeForce 7000M / nForce 610M] (rev a2)
	Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company Device 30ea
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz+ UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 0
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 16
	Region 0: Memory at f5000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
	Region 1: Memory at d0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
	Region 3: Memory at f4000000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
	[virtual] Expansion ROM at 80000000 [disabled] [size=128K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: nvidia
	Kernel modules: nvidia-current, nvidiafb, nouveau

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-02-22
If the nvidia-driver works fine in ubuntu,I
doubt that your wine problem is related to this....

But,if you want to test,add "nouveau" at the bottom of
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2011-02-22
> **TMC said:**
> I have a program I'm trying to run under Wine which is segfaulting without a backtrace.

And can you share what program that it is in this thread?

---

### Post by TMC on 2011-02-22
OK, so I've purged nouveau from the system and now I've blacklisted it in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf as you suggested and it's *still* listed as a kernel module after a reboot.

I have confirmed that the package really has been purged and that the entry in blacklist.conf is still there.

Oh, and Wine still segfaults on this one application - others work just fine.

---

### Post by TMC on 2011-02-22
> **khelben1979 said:**
> And can you share what program that it is in this thread?

Sorry, should have said.

The program in question is Grand Designs 3D Renovation & Interior; installed in its own prefix with Windows Media Player 10 installed through Winetricks.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-02-22
[I]The Wine gurus over at the Wine forum have said that this is symptomatic of badly installed video drivers, rather than a fault with Wine, which should produce a backtrace on a segfault.
[/I]
..have a link?


Why did you install the nvidia-driver manually?

---

### Post by TMC on 2011-02-22
> **realzippy said:**
> [I]The Wine gurus over at the Wine forum have said that this is symptomatic of badly installed video drivers, rather than a fault with Wine, which should produce a backtrace on a segfault.
[/I]
..have a link?

The Wine forum topic is at [http://forum.winehq.org/viewtopic.php?t=11272](http://forum.winehq.org/viewtopic.php?t=11272)

> Why did you install the nvidia-driver manually?

I didn't.  I did a clean install of 10.04, then went to System  > Administration > Hardware drivers and installed the nVidia-173 driver.  As a result of this problem and the response I got to it over on the Wine forum, I went back into Hardware drivers and switched to the nVidia-current driver to see if this might clear the problem, which it didn't.

---

