---
title: "10.04 on Sony Vaio has cpu fan issues"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by skatebiker on 2010-05-01
I installed a persistent USB stick version of both Xubuntu and Ubuntu Gnome 10.4 on a USB stick with 'casper-rw' i.e. persistent use. I did this before trying on my harddisk.
It worked fine but :

Both versions:

Unexpected errors when installing the NVIDIA propietary driver, on Xubuntu via the new drivers menu and on GNOMEdownloading from the website.
Both resulted in unexpected errors.

The CPU fan is constantly running while the CPU temp (lm-sensors) is only 38-45 deg C and the processor load is below 5%. The fan part of the laptop is rather cool, not hotter than normal.

On my installed Crunchbang (similar to Gnome Ubuntu) 9.04 the CPU fan only runs during heavy CPU load and I installed the NVIDIA drivers normally and they run fine.

It is a Sony VAIO VGN-FZ21M with NVIDIA 8400M.

More people with similar problems ?

---

### Post by UbuNoob001 on 2010-05-02
I have a dell inspiron 1545 and I have my fan running (almost) constantly. How did you check the cpu temperature? 

I dual boot with Vista and no problem on there

---

### Post by Eldomir on 2010-05-06
I can confirm this on a Sony Vaio VGN-FW21J. Temperature not going over 40-42 ºC and yet the fan is going pretty crazy all the time, something that doesn't happen in Windows 7.

---

### Post by Eldomir on 2010-05-06
Sorry to reply to myself, but it's fixed, so I thought I'd share: turns out the problem was the ATI open source driver (seems like the fan is shared by GPU and CPU? dunno).

The solution was simply to enable the proprietary ATI driver for the Radeon HD card, reboot and there it is... almost silent, like it is in Windows.

---

