---
title: "9.10  broke my close laptop = suspend feature"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by GuitarG20 on 2009-10-30
Because you will probably ask, yes I check ed the settings and it's set to suspend when i close the lid. But, when I do, whether it's plugged in or not, it freezes and all i get is the cursor on a black screen. If i try to put it in suspend without closing it, it works fine. I really use the close laptop feature alot and i kinda want it to work.

Dell Latitude D400

---

### Post by GuitarG20 on 2009-10-30
Come on...no one has any ideas at all???

---

### Post by teward on 2009-10-30
Give it time, dude.  Not everyone knows the answers to everything, and the super-experts don't check very often.

But, seeing how it's 9.10, and its an EXTREMELY NEW release, there are bound to be things they messed up with, including (but not related to your issue) wifi issues.

Just wait for a response, they'll get to you when they can.

---

### Post by ndyguy on 2009-11-11
I'm curious to know if anyone has found a fix to this problem.  I have a Toshiba Satellite L305D and with 9.04 I had a similar problem.  After boot up the suspend wouldn't work with the laptop lid until I made it go to sleep once, then it would work.  With 9.10 though, it won't work at all any more.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-11
Haven't found a fix yet, but you're not alone in having the problem:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307618](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307618)

---

### Post by john00 on 2009-11-24
My Dell D400 is doing the same thing after upgrading to 9.10.  Suspend and Hibernate work fine.  Closing the lid locks it up though, instead of suspending - as it in 8.10. The workaround seems to be to suspend it first before closing the lid - but that's somewhat more trouble than it should be.

---

### Post by baila0 on 2009-12-07
> **ndyguy said:**
> I'm curious to know if anyone has found a fix to this problem.  I have a Toshiba Satellite L305D and with 9.04 I had a similar problem.  After boot up the suspend wouldn't work with the laptop lid until I made it go to sleep once, then it would work.  With 9.10 though, it won't work at all any more.

I have the EXACT same problem!! Same Laptop, same problem in 9.04, same problem in 9.10. I move along my laptop a lot, so i it's a feature that i need on an everyday base. 

Hope they found a solution soon

---

### Post by mmeija on 2010-01-01
see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1345701](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1345701)

---

