---
title: "8.10 on m1330 XPS, No Bluetooth!"
date: 2009-02-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Ubun00btu on 2009-02-14
I need a little help figuing out a problem with my XPS M1330 and 8.10 64 bit installation. I can't get bluetooth to work at all. It is enabled in the BIOS, and when the laptop is off, if I select the bluetooth switch on the side it will blink blue or yellow. The bluetooth analyzer says it can't import from localhost, and in the "setup new device" menu in the bluetooth wizard there are no devices in the device search box. Regular wireless networking works fine.  

Any way to check and see if the hardware is even installed or detected?  I don't know the commands or what to look for specifically in the output - I'm sure it's something like lspci or lsusb to get the info.

---

### Post by Ubun00btu on 2009-02-21
Bump!

---

### Post by enduser000 on 2009-03-11
I have a dell xps m1330 as well.  Not 64 bit but with ubuntu 8.10 currently installed.  I'd assume bluetooth is enabled in the bios because it shows the icon and I can use my wifi/bluetooth hardware switch to turn it off.  I am having this same issue.

I have a apple wireless (bluetooth) keyboard that I'm trying to connect and I've installed gnome-bluetooth in synaptic and tried some commands from other posts and restarted (both the computer and bluetooth).  I don't really know where to go from here as it has seen my device once, but couldn't connect.  now it sees nothing in add new device.  Anyone else out there with a dell that's gotten this working?

enduser000

---

### Post by Ubun00btu on 2009-03-15
bump x 2

---

### Post by nwadams on 2009-03-15
my bluetooth doesn't work because i disabled it in vista and forgot to re-enable it before i installed ubuntu so i can't enable it until i re-install vista again...

---

### Post by enduser000 on 2009-03-19
My bluetooth works fine now.  I went into System>Administration>Synaptic and removed everything that came up when I searched 'bluetooth'.  Then I restarted and installed a few of them.  I noticed it removed evolution too, didn't replace that.  It works fine with my keyboard and mouse now,

enduser000

---

### Post by Ubun00btu on 2009-03-24
Tried your method, unfortunately no success.

---

### Post by enduser000 on 2009-04-03
I've also noticed that if I right click on the bluetooth icon in the system tray and hit preferenced and delete the device, and then left click on the icon, and do 'setup new device' it works.  This is for my mouse with no passkey, for some reason the apple keyboard hasn't been working the same, might remove/reinstall the bluetooth stuff again to try to fix this. What are you trying to connect?

---

### Post by Ubun00btu on 2009-04-14
Trying to connect a phone that has bluetooth tethering capability to share internet connectivity. 

I've also tried the bluetooth connection icon, but it returns the "localhost" error mentioned in the original post.

---

