---
title: "11.10 Ubuntu and M-Audio Audiophile 2496"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Igorpan on 2011-10-22
Hello, I've had problems with this card in 10.10 too, but managed to fix using this:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/178442/comments/30](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/178442/comments/30)

However, it doesn't seem to work for 11.10. I can see now "Analog Stereo Output" configuration (which I couldn't see before "fix" in 10.10) but I still get no sound.

Anyone has any idea if it is possible to fix this?

---

### Post by Jesuswashomeless on 2011-11-11
I also can't seem to get my audiophile 2496 to work with ubuntu 11.10 please advise

---

### Post by Ruhani04 on 2011-12-08
Also have audiophile 24/96 and had the same problem after installing Lubuntu 11.10 just yesterday.
Sound is a must for me !
So I installed alsa-utils and alsa tools gui from synaptic.
This gave me Envy24 control under "sound and video".
All I had to do was go to the "analog tab" and raise the volume.
Sound is amazing.

Before that I followed this bug advice:
"Hello, in order to slove this problem I applied this patch to the following file : /usr/share/alsa/cards/ICE1712.conf

In the PCM.FRONT section I added two config lines :
slave.format S32_LE
        slave.channels 10

So, my pcm.front section looks like :

CE1712.pcm.front.0 {
 @args [ CARD ]
 @args.CARD {
  type string
 }
 type route
 ttable.0.0 1
 ttable.1.1 1
 slave.pcm {
  type hw
  card $CARD
 }
        slave.format S32_LE
        slave.channels 10
}

Then , in the module option I added the rank of the sound card :
options snd-ice1712 model=audiophile index=0
I don't know if that option is required.
Now my sound cark works perfectly
Regards"

So I am not sure whether this is required or not.

Hope somebody can use it \\:D/

---

### Post by samatrix on 2013-03-11
Same problem with same card.
Simply installing Envy24 Control Utility and adjusting volume levels under "Analog Volume" was all it took.

This looks to be the best utility for our card.
[http://code.google.com/p/mudita24/](http://code.google.com/p/mudita24/)

Enjoying the sonics on the Linux!

---

