---
title: "trouble with resolution in kubuntu"
date: 2008-07-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Louis de Broglie on 2008-07-23
Hi, 

I am trying to change my screen resolution from 800*600 to 1024 * 768.

My monitor is : Samsung Syncmaster 591s
My graphics Card : Intel 945 On Board

I tried to go system settings -> monitor & display
Then I provied password to get administrator privilege. I selected 1024*768 and clicked apply and clicked keep settings but nothing happened. When I restarted my pc, the resolution became 640 * 480.

This is the data inside xorg.conf :

> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection



Please consider me a newbie. Also note that the output of xorg.conf is after reinstalling kubuntu. Because that's the only way i knew to go back to 800*600. :(

I learned about xorg.conf by reading various topics on the web but none could help me much. Please help :)

---

### Post by Louis de Broglie on 2008-07-23
Hello, is there anybody to help ?:)

---

### Post by Louis de Broglie on 2008-07-24
Please someone take a look at this or, tell me i won't get help here.:(

---

### Post by silvanus2005 on 2008-07-24
Maybe you should check to see if you need proprietary drivers for that resolution, and to enable them. I have a similar graphic card on my laptop and, in Ubuntu, I receive a message telling me that proprietary drivers are needed for my graphic card to work properly and support a the native resolution of my laptop,  1280*800.

---

### Post by silvanus2005 on 2008-07-24
You could search for help on kubuntu forums there
[http://www.kubuntuforums.net/](http://www.kubuntuforums.net/)

---

### Post by Louis de Broglie on 2008-07-24
Thank you for that piece of information.:)

---

### Post by silvanus2005 on 2008-07-24
I hope you will find what you are looking for.

---

### Post by Louis de Broglie on 2008-07-25
In fact, downloading some xorg updates did the job. But I think my monitor has some problems. So i returned to 800*600 till I get a new monitor.:)

---

