---
title: "cannot mount external harddrive"
date: 2008-11-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by SCHWARTZMC on 2008-11-25
i have been using my external harddrive for about a year now without any trouble mounting it. now when i plug in my external hard drive i get the following error:

Volume is scheduled for check. Please boot into Windows TWICE, or use the 'force' mount option. For example type on the command line:  mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb1 /media/OneTouch4___ -o force  Or add the option to the relevant row in the /etc/fstab file:  /dev/sdb1 /media/OneTouch4__ ntfs-3g defaults,force 0 0

the first time i got this message i tried booting it into windows TWICE with no luck. i then tried the force mount option in the terminal. the force mount worked. i was able to use it for a while until i plugged it into a buddy's iMac. i got the same error as listed above and when i try the force mount:

matt@dell:~$ sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb1 /media/OneTouch4___ -o force
Password:
WARNING: Dirty volume mount was forced by the 'force' mount option.
fusermount: failed to access mountpoint /media/OneTouch4___: No such file or directory
FUSE mount point creation failed
Unmounting /dev/sdb1 (OneTouch4)

i noticed an extra '_' in the mount point and tried:

matt@dell:~$ sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb1 /media/OneTouch4__ -o force
WARNING: Dirty volume mount was forced by the 'force' mount option.
fusermount: failed to access mountpoint /media/OneTouch4__: No such file or directory
FUSE mount point creation failed
Unmounting /dev/sdb1 (OneTouch4)

no luck. i would like to try adding the said option into the relevent row of the fstab file, but i have no idea where the relevent row is. here is the file:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=08a67a04-07a7-492e-8346-c62495986cd5 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=bc77c9f1-98de-46fb-bc8d-e1b8532d6986 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=f8027422-b847-4a86-9a51-d70c327ae594 /boot ext3 defaults 0 0

_______
im not sure why the force mount worked the first time this happened, but not now. anybody able to shed some light on the situation? i would greatly appreciate it.

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-11-25
> **SCHWARTZMC said:**
> 
Volume is scheduled for check. Please boot into Windows TWICE, or use the 'force' mount option. 

Or add the option to the relevant row in the /etc/fstab file:  

anybody able to shed some light on the situation? i would greatly appreciate it.

Typically, internal drives are checked after a certain period. When you are asked to boot into Windows TWICE, the program is assuming an internal hard disk drive.

To clear your problem, boot into Windows, close all programs that may be using the external drive (Eg., Google Desktop) and then run chkdsk on the drive; Eg, assuming the external drive is "G:" in Windows, you would Open the "Command Prompt" and give the command ```
chkdsk /f G:
```

You will have a choice to check it immediately, but that will invalidate any files on the volume currently opened by programs (So the program will likely crash, but nothing should happen to the file). If you answer "Yes", the drive's filesystem will be _temporarily_ "disconnected" from access by Windows programs, and checkdsk will check it, and fix errors if any. If you choose "No", you will be prompted to check it on Windows startup; if you want to do this, then, in that case, answer "Yes", leave it plugged in, and restart windows ```
shutdown -r -t 1
```

Using "force" tells linux to not bother with checks and open the drive anyway, but this is only to be used in an emergency, not as a matter of course.

Further, from 8.10 onwards, "dynamic" filesystems such as external drives, thumb drives, CD/DVD drives and floppy drives et al, are no longer to be listed in /etc/fstab; that is to be used only for "static" file systems, such as internal drives.

---

### Post by SCHWARTZMC on 2008-11-29
it worked! thank you kindly

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-11-29
> **SCHWARTZMC said:**
> it worked! 

I'm happy I was of some help. Can you please mark this thread as solved? Click on "Thread Tools", towards the upper right hand side of this page, then click on "Mark Thread as Solved"

---

