---
title: "Automount, hot swappable backup usb HD"
date: 2009-06-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jackel7007 on 2009-06-25
After settings up my system with Ubuntu desktop edition, i configured everything in such a way so all system important software runs without logging in.

The main idea was to create a system (on our server) which would reboot after a power interupt. After rebooting it stands on login, but that shouldn't matter for backup orders.

So far I have the following software running without logging in:

* Hamachi
* Nomachine
* Schedular
* Areca (Backup tool)

Now what we want, is that the schedular runs a script, which is generated by Areca.
So far, succes!

The script backs up to a USB HD drive.
To get this drive mounted without logging in, I know I have to add it to Fstab.
We have 2 disks which we exchange, and it should be hot swap.

So I would like to know how to add this line in Fstab.
* Both disks have to be mounted to the same directory (not at the same time)
* It has to be hotswap, so we change the disk in the morning without shutting down the   whole server.

Little detailed scenario:
I come at work, and the backup has been made in the night.
I disconnect disk 1, and connect disk 2 (1 and 2 are exactly the same type of usb harddisk) disk 2 is automaticly recognized and mounted to the (for example) 
/media/backup directory, in the night areca does the backup and writes it to the disk2.
In the morning the story starts from the beginning.

And, all this is done without loging in.
(Why we want this? because we don't want to use autologin, and we want the system to work after a power interuption. Also without a user logged in our server is a bit faster)

So now my question:
* Is this possible, and if so, what should I put in my fstab file? (if it is in fstab)....

---

### Post by DirkIT on 2011-12-01
Had any luck with this? 

I have the same issue. Difference:  using an Icydock and hotswapping 2 HDD's in the one tray. 

I hope you (or some other kind soul) will be able to point me in the right direction

---

### Post by overdrank on 2011-12-01
Hi and please start a new thread with your issues. Back to sleep thread. :)

---

