---
title: "11.04 overheats and shuts off machine on elitebook 8540w"
date: 2011-05-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by arsenix on 2011-05-31
Was running 10.10 on this machine since October when it came out without issues.  Machine has always run hot and gotten terrible battery life but I assumed it was just hardware config (820QM processor, Quadro 1800 video).

Just upgraded to 11.04 hoping that power consumption would be improved.  Now it seems temperature control does not work properly.  During heavy CPU utilization, machine gets very hot and shuts off after a few minutes.

syslog snippet from right before the shutoff:
May 31 22:18:57 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11246.094814] CPU7: Core temperature above threshold, cpu clock throttled (
May 31 22:18:57 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11246.094817] CPU6: Core temperature above threshold, cpu clock throttled (
May 31 22:18:57 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11246.095816] CPU6: Core temperature/speed normal
May 31 22:18:57 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11246.095818] CPU7: Core temperature/speed normal
May 31 22:21:27 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11395.422828] [Hardware Error]: Machine check events logged

I couldn't find any kernel or ubuntu bugs related to this issue.  As a sidelight, have had several suspend/resume failures in 11.04 as well :(

I'm running 64bit.  Install is technically xubuntu although I run awesomewm.

Anyone else experiencing this issue?


James

---

### Post by nomiz on 2011-06-04
Got exactly the same thing on 11.04 :(

---

### Post by arsenix on 2011-06-04
Same machine?

Do you mean 10.10, or are you running an alpha of 11.10?


James

---

### Post by nomiz on 2011-06-04
Excuse me: same machine on Ubuntu 11.04 x64

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-06-04
> **arsenix said:**
> Was running 10.10 on this machine since October when it came out without issues.  Machine has always run hot and gotten terrible battery life but I assumed it was just hardware config (820QM processor, Quadro 1800 video).

Just upgraded to 11.04 hoping that power consumption would be improved.  Now it seems temperature control does not work properly.  During heavy CPU utilization, machine gets very hot and shuts off after a few minutes.

syslog snippet from right before the shutoff:
May 31 22:18:57 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11246.094814] CPU7: Core temperature above threshold, cpu clock throttled (
May 31 22:18:57 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11246.094817] CPU6: Core temperature above threshold, cpu clock throttled (
May 31 22:18:57 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11246.095816] CPU6: Core temperature/speed normal
May 31 22:18:57 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11246.095818] CPU7: Core temperature/speed normal
May 31 22:21:27 jpeverill-lappy kernel: [11395.422828] [Hardware Error]: Machine check events logged

I couldn't find any kernel or ubuntu bugs related to this issue.  As a sidelight, have had several suspend/resume failures in 11.04 as well :(

I'm running 64bit.  Install is technically xubuntu although I run awesomewm.

Anyone else experiencing this issue?


James

A couple of comments. I have an 8510p and had a similar problem a while back. Used compressed air on the vents and blew out a ton of dust (and this on basically a new laptop!). I clean the exhaust vents regularly and this solved my overheating problem. It doesn't necessarily mean that this is the cause of your problem, but it might be worth a try.

Secondly. I came across this page: [http://www.linlap.com/wiki/hp+elitebook+8540w](http://www.linlap.com/wiki/hp+elitebook+8540w). There is some information there about a suspend fix involving the unloading of the xhci module before suspend and some more information regarding acpi implementation that consumes alot of power unnecessarily.

---

### Post by arsenix on 2011-06-04
I had seen the linlap page before... although there is some new stuff on there since I last looked.  I hadn't known there was a relevant BIOS update that had been released.  I just installed it and I'll see how things go.  I tried loading down the CPU heavily and the fan went into high gear, temps seemed to level off.  It seemed like previously the fan wouldn't ever go into the highest speed as it did on 10.10.

Thanks for pointing me back to that page.  Other folks... try the F.0F bios and see if things improve.


James

---

### Post by nomiz on 2011-06-05
Thanks for the tip; I upgraded to BIOS version F.0F. I'll check out how that goes.

In the mean time; from the sensors command I get:```
acpitz-virtual-0
Adapter: Virtual device
temp1:       +57.0°C  (crit = +127.0°C)                  
temp2:        +0.0°C  (crit = +127.0°C)                  
temp3:       +53.0°C  (crit = +128.0°C)                  
temp4:       +60.0°C  (crit = +127.0°C)                  
temp5:       +73.0°C  (crit = +115.0°C)                  
temp6:       +35.0°C  (crit = +128.0°C)                  
temp7:       +69.0°C  (crit = +128.0°C)                  
temp8:       +70.0°C  (crit = +128.0°C)                  
temp9:        +0.0°C  (crit = +128.0°C)                  
temp10:      +78.0°C  (crit = +128.0°C)
```
Which temperature is what?

---

### Post by nomiz on 2011-06-05
Hmm, even with the new BIOS my laptop just shut down due to the same overheating problem.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-06-05
From: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

"acpi.power_nocheck=1 OR acpi_osi=linux
Disable the check of power state or changes the OS compatibility reported to the BIOS. Necessary on some broken BIOSes to make temperature/fan control work."

Worth a try?

---

### Post by arsenix on 2011-06-09
Apparently this type of issue is affecting many users:
  [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_mobile_uffda&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_mobile_uffda&num=1)

That is an early article... lots of other chatter on ubuntu forums from users experiencing similar issues to this one on many different platforms.

Seems to be a kernel issue.  Some claim it is fixed in the bleeding edge kernel. (2.6.39)

---

### Post by nomiz on 2011-06-22
Got the new kernel! But though the overheating problem is less severe, it still exists.. :-s

After loading the CPU 100% for 15 minutes, the temperature rose to high and the laptop powered down.

---

### Post by nomiz on 2011-06-23
By the way, running the same simulation on Windows 7 (running for 30 minutes now) is no problem. The Core I7 temperature now rises up to 87 °C (13° below Junction Temperature Max, TJ Max).

Is the Linux kernel lacking sufficient ASCPI support? Or does HP have to release better firmware?

---

### Post by nomiz on 2011-06-23
A vacuum cleaner also does the trick, by the way ;) I've hooked it up to the exhaust vent!

---

### Post by nzjethro on 2011-06-23
My HP dv5 overheats like crazy. And I hear that this new kernel makes it worse. A vacuum cleaner's novel. I pulled mine apart to get at the cooling system, and it took about 4 hours. (Significantly increase airflow though!).  :)

---

### Post by nomiz on 2011-11-16
Ok, the new kernel (3.0.0-13-generic) shipped with Ubuntu 11.10 solved a great deal: my desktop interface runs perfectly smooth and snappy. But the main issue is remained; it turns out that this is caused by the BIOS firmware of my system (HP EliteBook 8540w).

The Active State Power Management (ASPM) was turned off, because the BIOS did not specifically state (to the OS) that it supports this feature. Forcing this option decreased the power consumption and overheating problems on my machine!

To do so:
[LIST]
[*]edit /etc/default/grub
[*]add **pcie_aspm=force** to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT
[*]execute **sudo update-grub**
[/LIST]

This issue should be fixed permanently with kernel 3.2.x.

---

### Post by arsenix on 2011-11-19
Thanks for that tip, it did indeed seem to reduce power consumption.  It seems like the effect wears off though after a suspend/resume cycle.

  I also notice that now powertop shows my fingerprint reader as consuming 4W all the time... (not sure I trust this though).  My idle power consumption with screen brightness on minimum and running firefox/thunderbird and pidgin is now around 25W.


James

---

### Post by arsenix on 2011-12-12
I also turned off the fingerprint reader and bluetooth in the bios which reduced power consumption by another watt or two.  Unclear why the fingerprint reader would use so much power especially when not in use.  The kernel seems like it has problems putting USB devices to sleep.


James

---

### Post by arsenix on 2012-01-31
I am still having this problem now with 11.11.  Unsure if the aspm_pcie=force has worn off or if I am just seeing higher workloads.  I haven't seen it happen often but it still does during long high CPU loads.

Anyone else still having issues with this?


James

---

### Post by glensmall on 2012-04-10
I get exactly the same issue on Win7 even with the latest BIOS.  Just runns really hot and eventually cuts out when under heavy load 9graphics rendering in my case).

---

### Post by urlwolf on 2012-04-27
> **arsenix said:**
> I am still having this problem now with 11.11.  Unsure if the aspm_pcie=force has worn off or if I am just seeing higher workloads.  I haven't seen it happen often but it still does during long high CPU loads.

Anyone else still having issues with this?


James

I'm running 12.04 and I have the same problems: overheating shutdowns, and shoddy resume.

It looks like the kernel 3.2 didn't solve it; neither did the BIOS upgrade.

The resting temperature for the CPU on linux is 78C, on windows 65C. I've yet to hear the fan on windows, while it's always on on linux.

If anyone has found a solution, please post here.

Btw, those having resume problems... are you using the noveau drivers, or the nvidia ones? When I was using nvidia, the resume was a bit better. But plugging and unplugging an external monitor involves dozens of clicks :/

---

### Post by urlwolf on 2012-04-29
Looks like doing this:
> 
edit /etc/default/grub
add pcie_aspm=force to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT
execute sudo update-grub

... fixed the problem. Thanks OP.

---

### Post by urlwolf on 2012-05-11
correction: problem not fixed. Still plenty of apps that peg the cpu 100% for even a few seconds can take the machine down.

---

