---
title: "13.04 and Lenovo Laptops"
date: 2013-06-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by omniphil on 2013-06-12
I am always trying to get Ubuntu on my work machines. At my last company I had them buy me a desktop instead of a laptop and this worked fairly well.

Here, I get Lenovo Thinkpads.  It seems that I can get 13.04 installed fine if I set these laptops to use the internal video only. Tho that means not using a DVI cable to my external monitor as the requires the Nvidia card. 

I still run into alot of issues with dual monitors however, and this always have seemed to be a tough area for Ubuntu and I going back many years.

I recently gave up on my Lenovo W520 with Ubuntu its just too problematic with and external monitor. (Will not even install 13.04 unless I disable the Nvidia card)

I swapped for a lower powered Lenovo T530, this one has a difference video card, still Nvidia, but less powerful. 13.04 installs fine. Nice!
Hook up my external monitor via VGA and set it up. cool. Every one in a while I notice a flicker.
Restart the machine and the monitor won't come on at all. Ugh..

Ubuntu continues to be my OS of choice, but its getting harder and harder to use it. I keep hoping as new releases come out that things will get better, but I just don't see it.

1. Multiple monitors is a crap shoot. Most of the time you can get the unsigned nvidia drivers working, but its a huge pain.

2. I now live in a world where Outlook/Exchange is forced on me. I know Microsoft doesn't want me using Outlook on Linux and the work arounds for Evolution/Thunderbird as just poor really. The best solution for me is to use VMware Player in Unity mode. This give me a nice Outlook window right on my Ubuntu desktop.

Just wanted to get a sense from the rest of you folks how your experience with Laptops and Multiple monitors has been? Is it just Lenovo that's problematic?
I am unfortunately back on Windows typing this as I can never get Ubuntu to be as stable/trouble free. I'll come in to work and turn on my machine and either one of the monitors won't work, or all of the video settings have changed, or it just freezes. Too many compromises.

---

### Post by linrunner on 2013-06-12
Hi,

you blame the wrong people. Nvidia and their reluctance to support Linux properly &#8211; especially Optimus &#8211; are at the core of the problem.

My Intel-only ThinkPads work well with digitally connected external monitors and Unity switches seamless when docking/undocking.

ps. refer to Linus' comment on the topic: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IVpOyKCNZYw](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IVpOyKCNZYw)

---

### Post by omniphil on 2013-06-12
Lol, great video...

I'm not trying to place blame anywhere, was looking to see how others are dealing with multiple monitors.

Even when I disable the nvidia chip and use intel only I am still have issues with multi monitor support.

If I found a laptop with an ATI chipset would I have better luck? Or should I just stick to Intel only laptops?

> **linrunner said:**
> Hi,

you blame the wrong people. Nvidia and their reluctance to support Linux properly – especially Optimus – are at the core of the problem.

My Intel-only ThinkPads work well with digitally connected external monitors and Unity switches seamless when docking/undocking.

ps. refer to Linus' comment on the topic: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IVpOyKCNZYw](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IVpOyKCNZYw)

---

