---
title: "2.6.24-21 and the sound card"
date: 2008-10-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Oenologist on 2008-10-17
Aaaah, the brand new, splending kernel has just arrived. And guess what! My laptop fell silent, he totaly ignored my soundcard and pretends not to see its existence in the system!:lolflag:

Yeah, very funny... 

So, I browsed the net, found out that lots of people have problems with this version of kernel, and decided to turn back to 2.6.24-19. Yeah, during booting I choose the earlier version and everything works like it did yesterday. 

Therefore, I have an inquiry - should I downgrade the kernel and work on the earlier version, or work my way through recompilation of Alsa to suit my sound card? Perhaps I'll be able to do the recompilation, but I'm apprehensive...Why? Because I will struggle with the recompilation for the whole evening, and probably in a few days time there will be a patch, a bug fixing something which in a fantastic manner fixes everything!

I wish...

So, what is your opinion on that? Should I execute the whole downgrade of kernel, or struggle with alsa?

---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2008-10-17
Have you looked at the alsamixer in the terminal? Is everything reporting as turned on and volumes high enough?

I apologize for answering your question with a question, rather than a solution. One other note: I've seen several people who have "lost" sound.

---

### Post by Oenologist on 2008-10-17
> **Mark_in_Hollywood said:**
> Have you looked at the alsamixer in the terminal? Is everything reporting as turned on and volumes high enough?

I apologize for answering your question with a question, rather than a solution. One other note: I've seen several people who have "lost" sound.

Take a look at this -  cat /proc/asound/cards shows "no soundcard". 

The card is detected by this:

marcy@dell-desktop:~$ cat /proc/asound/cards
 0 [Intel          ]: HDA-Intel - HDA Intel
                      HDA Intel at 0xfe9fc000 irq 19


So it's definitely not a simple case of low volume, mute or something :)

---

### Post by Oenologist on 2008-10-19
Anyone?

---

### Post by crazyness003 on 2008-10-19
You wanted opinions:
Stick with the older kernel. If the newer one dosn't get fixed, the one after it will probably get fixed.

[COLOR=Red]**ATTENTION:**[/COLOR]
It is highly recommended to file a bug report in light of the problem. So that it dosnt happen again.

But thats my opinion.

---

### Post by wheatfield on 2008-10-19
I hope I am not misinterpreting your question, but I had the exact same problem just hours ago.  After some googling I wanted to try reverting to 2.6.24-19 and I simply changed /boot/grub/menu.lst to accomplish this. I changed "default		0" -> "default		2" in menu.lst.  That change also eliminated a wireless issue also caused by the upgrade.  So I now booting into the 2.6.24-19 kernel and have seen no other ill effects.

I have a dell 1420n preloaded with 7.04 and upgraded to hardy via the usual online process.

If I have misinterpreted your question, please understand as I am not an ubuntu guru.

---

### Post by crazyness003 on 2008-10-19
> **wheatfield said:**
> ...If I have misinterpreted your question, please understand as I am not an ubuntu guru.

[partial hijack]
Hello wheatfield. Welcome to the forums.
[/partial hijack]

And yes, all you gotta do is load the previous kernel. You can unistall the "broken" kernel in synaptec. Or maybe theres another way...

---

### Post by Oenologist on 2008-10-20
> **crazyness003 said:**
> You wanted opinions:
Stick with the older kernel. If the newer one dosn't get fixed, the one after it will probably get fixed.

[COLOR=Red]**ATTENTION:**[/COLOR]
It is highly recommended to file a bug report in light of the problem. So that it dosnt happen again.

But thats my opinion.

Right. I'm staying by the old one.

I'm not going to post a bug, cause I have a feeling that nobody is interested in patching those errors. Each time I visit launchpad there are dozens of unfixed errors and closed threads...

---

### Post by crazyness003 on 2008-10-20
> **Oenologist said:**
> Right. I'm staying by the old one.

I'm not going to post a bug, cause I have a feeling that nobody is interested in patching those errors. Each time I visit launchpad there are dozens of unfixed errors and closed threads...

You gotta give them some credit. But yes, some bugs go unfixed until a later version. But its still a good idea to at least let them know by posting a bug. Even if it dosnt get fixed, it increases the chances for someone to look into it.

---

### Post by Oenologist on 2008-10-29
Ok, I've posted a bug on launchpad. We shall see.

Anybody has the same problem? Any new solutions?

---

### Post by crazyness003 on 2008-10-30
> **Oenologist said:**
> Ok, I've posted a bug on launchpad. We shall see.

Anybody has the same problem? Any new solutions?

good. [sarcasm] now high five yourself for making the world a better place [/sarcasm]

I wouldnt worry about it, II 8.10 is due today (i hope), just upgrade to the 2.6.25 kernel (or is it gonna get bumped to 2.6.26, i think after alpha, beta and RC, the kernel revisions go to even numbers)

Do a whole upgrade. 8.10 is better IMO

---

