---
title: "10.04 &amp; Mobility Radeon 9700"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Efaustus9 on 2010-05-10
I have linux mint 7 installed on my two desktops but I have never been able to get a distro of linux to work on my laptop. With the release of 10.04 I figured I would give it another go. I am happy to say that with this version I am finally able to use linux on my laptop but with limitations. notably It does not recognize  my ATI videocard and will only boot into low graphics mode. I installed the catalysts drivers but I am when I try to run the program I am told that either the drivers did not install correctly or that my card is not supported. I also tried envyng but I could not get it to load in 10.04.

Laptop Specs:
Acer Travelmate 3200
Intel Pentium M 745 1.8Ghz 2MB
ATI Mobility Radeon 9700 AGP 64MB (essentially a Radeon 9600 pro) 
100GB 5400rpm SATA Harddrive

when I first start linux I am presented with the following:

(EE)WESA: Kernel modesetting driver in use, refusing to load.
(EE)no devices detected.

I am given a number of options but choosing to load into low graphics mode gets me to the desktop. Any thoughts. Thanks in advance!:)

---

### Post by parn on 2010-05-11
I think you have to use the opensource xorg drivers for ATI 9700 video card as the catalysis drivers are only for newer ATI card like Radeon HD video cards and above.

---

### Post by Efaustus9 on 2010-05-11
Thanks for your reply. How would I go about installing the opensource xorg drivers for my card? I was also considering installing an older version of the catalyst drivers that support my card (say 8.3). Thoughts? Thanks again.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-05-11
Since the ATi open source video driver is part of the Linux kernel, you can just adjust your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to use this driver instead. It should look like this, I think:

> Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "ati"
EndSection

Make sure to do a backup of the configuration file before you proceed.

---

### Post by Efaustus9 on 2010-05-11
> **khelben1979 said:**
> Since the ATi open source video driver is part of the Linux kernel, you can just adjust your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to use this driver instead. It should look like this, I think:



Make sure to do a backup of the configuration file before you proceed.

Thanks for the input, I changed the file as you suggested though I am not seeing any changes to what I was witnessing before. I still can not activate normal ubuntu visual effects and glxgears gives me a segmentation fault when I try to run it.

---

### Post by dancfreitas on 2010-09-09
I have exactly the same problem with the same graphics card ati mobility radeon 9700 agp 64mb

the only driver that works is the vesa driver...but i can't select a bether resolution than 1024x764 (my display is 1280x800)...

i tried the ati driver but when i try to log in my system freezes (no response from the keyboard or mouse)...

Any help? please... I'm running out of options...
:(

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-09-09
> **dancfreitas said:**
> I have exactly the same problem with the same graphics card ati mobility radeon 9700 agp 64mb

the only driver that works is the vesa driver...but i can't select a bether resolution than 1024x764 (my display is 1280x800)...

i tried the ati driver but when i try to log in my system freezes (no response from the keyboard or mouse)...

Any help? please... I'm running out of options...
:(

If you have  the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf

please post it..

---

### Post by smucha on 2010-10-12
Hello,

I have a similar problem with the ATI Mobility Radeon 9700.
I have Ubuntu 10.04 LTS with kernel: 2.6.32-25-generic.
                
The highest resolution that I can get is 1024x768 and my LCD should work with 1280x1024.
I've read many pages of this and other discussion groups.
Unfortunately I couldn't solve my problem.
It seems that I can't install any drivers for my card.

Here is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf
 
Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Configured Screen Device"
        Device  "Configured Video Device"
        SubSection "Display"
                Virtual 2048 768
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection


I will be very grateful for your help.

---

