---
title: "9.10 on Dell Latitude?"
date: 2010-03-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dport on 2010-03-03
I have an old Dell Latitude CPi D266XT. 64 megs of ram and a 5 gig hard drive. Nothing crazy, old as crap, but I was curious if Ubuntu 9.10 would run on it if I tweeked it to just the lowest settings. Its only going to be used to mess around with Linux and maybe some personal files. Obviously with 5 gigs of space I know I wouldn't be able to do much with it. Think it will work?

---

### Post by dport on 2010-03-04
Worked on it a little bit, not going to work out. This computer is just way to old to run this version. the BIOS cut off for 9.1 is 2000 and the Bios in this computer are from 98, So no luck there. Looks like i'll be trying an older version of Ubuntu, or just toss 98 back on it and do a reformat and use it as a finances computer.

---

### Post by nexus_2006 on 2010-03-04
I have one of those, haven't used it since 2005 when I ran slack 9 on it and used it for a download manager and dedicated chat screen.  I'm thinking that ubuntu 6.06 is about the same age, can't remember.  Aren't there a few modern distros tweaked for max performance on old, slow equipment?  On that laptop, Win 98 wouldn't even play a .avi file without skips, but linux made it a decent lil' box for its age.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-03-04
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements)

> 
Recommended minimum requirements

Ubuntu should run reasonably well on a computer with the following minimum hardware specification. However, features such as visual effects may not run smoothly.

    * 700 MHz x86 processor
    * 384 MB of system memory (RAM)
    * 8 GB of disk space
    * Graphics card capable of 1024x768 resolution
    * Sound card
    * A network or Internet connection


And for Ubuntu's lightweight cousin, Xubuntu:

> 
If you have an old or low-spec computer or want to get the most out of your hardware, using a lightweight desktop system such as Xubuntu is recommended, as it should make more efficient use of your system's resources...
 
Bare Minimum requirements

    * 333 MHz processor
    * 192 MB of system memory (RAM)
    * At least 1.5 GB of disk space
    * VGA graphics card 


---

