---
title: "14.04LTS - AMD/Intel Latest Catalyst 14.501 Installation (Solution Found)"
date: 2015-01-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by canavaroski90 on 2015-01-26
Hi all,

I'm one of you who has been struggling with installation problems of AMD graphic card drivers on hybrid machines. Finally, i got it worked. I'll try to explain the way I followed.

Before you start, check your release name, version and kernel version. You should be able to reproduce same outputs after executing following commands.
Download latest 64-bit graphics card driver from AMD: 
[http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/amd-catalyst-omega-14.12-linux-run-installers.zip](http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/amd-catalyst-omega-14.12-linux-run-installers.zip)

Also you must have an Intel/AMD MUXED system to be able to switch between gpus. To test it follow [this link!]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HybridGraphics")

First, find your release version and name.
```
$ lsb_release -aDistributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 14.04.1 LTS
Release:    14.04
Codename:    trusty

```

_**[COLOR=#ff0000]This is important[/COLOR]**_. Since **[Automatic GPU switching]("http://kernelnewbies.org/Linux_3.13#head-f95c198f6fdc7defe36f470dc8369cf0e16898df") **is added after linux kernel 3.12, you may fail on installation if you are standing on different kernel version.
```
$ uname -r3.13.0-44-generic

```

Problem:
Because of the automatic gpu switching ability, ubuntu shuts down discrete gpu and activates it only when you pass DRI_PRIME=1 parameter to kernel while running an application. In this case, when you try to install graphics driver that you've downloaded from AMD website can not find your AMD GPU because it has been put into a sleep mode by OS. This results in error messages like "Your graphics adapter is not supported", "Could not found any supported graphics card on your system" etc...

Ugly workaround:
If we can wake up discrete GPU and run installer when it is awake, installer can detect it and install modules. 

So we start with waking up discrete GPU on terminal (install glxgears if you do not have installed);
```
DRI_PRIME=1 glxgears
```

This will start a benchmark application and keeps GPU awake until we close it. So, the second step, install AMD drivers;
On first screen select second option. (Not the RECOMMENDED one! Gush! I didnt get even a snapshot while tryin! )
```
sudo ./amd-driver-installer-14.501.1003-x86.x86_64.run 
```

Installation should finish without an error (at least mine was fine). Then it will request to reboot your computer, yes m'am, reboot it!

When your computer started up, we have a 2 final steps. I think there is a problem about configuration of amd drivers on installation, so we have to configure it for once. 
But again, our discrete gpu has been put down to sleep by OS. oh my... We need to wake him up again. Knock Knock!
```
DRI_PRIME=1 glxgears
```

Now the HOLY step! I'm ordering you to be configured my powerful GPU! SHOW ME THE POWER!
```
sudo amdconfig --initial
```

Your xorg.conf is re-created and configured to be able to use AMD. LAST REBOOT. aaaaaaannnDDD HALLELUJAY!

```
$ glmark2 =======================================================
    glmark2 2012.08
=======================================================
    OpenGL Information
    GL_VENDOR:     ATI Technologies Inc.
    GL_RENDERER:   AMD Radeon HD 6700M Series
    GL_VERSION:    4.4.13283 Compatibility Profile Context 14.501.1003



```

---

