---
title: "10.04 Will Not Boot, Stuck on &quot;Verifying DMI Pool Data&quot;"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mootpoint on 2010-05-13
This is starting to get to me ....

I built a new machine with a Foxconn M7PMX-S motherboard, Intel Quad proc, yada yada, an IDE CD/DVD (master), PATA 160 GB HD (slave), and 2 1.5 TB SATA drives. Have tried installing Ubuntu 10.04 several times, on all 3 hard disks. 

Booting from CD always works fine, and all 3 hard disks are always visible and correctly detected from the install CD's. But after installing Ubuntu (on any drive), the boot process freezes at "Verifying DMI Pool Data." I've tried removing 1 or 2 of the hard disks, etc. Nothing helped, nothing booted. 

Foxconn tech support asked me to try installing Windows (ewww), so I did. 
And that fixed it. I installed Windoze to the 160G drive, and it booted no problem. I then installed Ubuntu to one of the 1.5 TB's, and Ubuntu booted. Then I got the alternate install CD, so that I could install with the 2 1.5 TB drives in RAID 1, and put the OS on the 160G. This of course wiped everything I had at that point.

The machine is again freezing at "Verifying DMI Pool Data." 

Why won't Ubuntu install correctly so that this machine will boot? Help!?!?!

mootpoint

---

### Post by WickedSin on 2010-06-18
Having this same issue.

---

### Post by dupree_79 on 2010-06-21
Same issue here. Tried both x32 and x64 version; system stops at "verifying dmi data".
 
If you would be so kind to fix this problem since a lot of people seem to have it.
 
Thx in advance! 
:)
 
Update:
Found that a guy got past "verifying dmi pool data" by loading defaults in his bios.
This post was a couple of years old and ubuntu 8.04 was used.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=594818](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=594818)
I haven't tried it but going to when I get home.
 
Sorry it took so long, but bios reset did not work. :(

---

### Post by jschweit on 2010-07-17
I'm having this same problem with a 10.04/Windows 7 dual boot RAID 1 setup.  A temporary solution I have found is to boot into a Live CD, then restart.  For some reason I can get to GRUB after doing this.  It's annoying, but at least I can boot until I figure out the problem.

dupree_79: I just tried loading fail safe defaults and I still had the same issue.

---

### Post by xbleed on 2010-07-28
Had the same exact problem since 10.04. Clean install, no dual booting, won't get past the DMI Pool.

I've given up entirely. Very frustrating.

---

### Post by dwbsr on 2010-07-28
I had the same problem but mine ended up being a bad harddrive, you might want to check these possibilities:
 
[LIST=1]
[*]Corrupt boot files on the computer.
[*]Settings for hard disk drive are not correct.
[*]Floppy diskette or CD in computer causing issue.
[*]Boot devices not set properly.
[*]BIOS corrupt or misc. setting not set properly.
[*]Connections loose or disconnected.
[*]Bad Hard disk drive or other bad hardware.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by IcarusR on 2010-07-28
mootpoint.

If you managed to get Ubuntu to install & boot but then installed the alternate iso then I would suggest that the alternate install is fubard.
Try re-burning the iso image at a SLOW speed & re-install Ubuntu. This can resolve bad install issues.

Others.

Set bios to default settings.
If box boots from different medium, ie USB or CD then the problem is with HDD, hardware or install. 
Try another drive. Check HDD data cable. 
Try re-burning the iso image at a SLOW speed & re-install Ubuntu. This can resolve this sort of issue.

Sorry if these suggestions have been tried, are obvious or have been suggested before, but there are 5 of you with the same problem.

---

