---
title: "12.04 detects Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1, 12.10+ does not"
date: 2014-11-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by zerothis23 on 2014-11-07
My immediate goal is to update to a supported version of l/ubuntu. Efforts to upgrade from 12.04 directly to 14.04 were entirely fruitless. So I am taking the non-LTS route to get to 14.04. Efforts to install  14.04, 13.10, 13.04, and 12.10 directly, also proved fruitless (which is why the subject says what it says and says "12.10[SIZE=4]**+**[/SIZE]"). My Long term goal is to keep my system up to date with ubuntu releases despite my video card (seemingly) requiring a driver from 12.04.

I have a Toshiba Satellite with a Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1 video card (according to lspci)
A precise (12.04) install works fine. For quantal (12.10), the card is not detected durring boot. Thus I boot to a blank screen. Not even virtual terminal is visible. It's all there, I can log in, run things, hear things, I just can see it. I have been attempting to piece-mail upgrade to quantal while keeping the neccissary video drivers from precise. The package managers insist on upgrading many packages (such as xserver-xorg-video-trident) or removing essential packages (such as xserver-xorg-video-trident and/or lubuntu-desktop). And they don't seem to care that packages are held. It has been a long hard road of removing and upgrading with held packages and forcing dpkg to not upgrade or remove anything necessary.

Currently I've arrived here:

xserver-xorg-core
xserver-xorg-input-mouse
xserver-xorg-video-fbdev
xserver-xorg-video-nouvea
xserver-xorg-video-trident
xserver-xorg-video-vesa
xserver-xorg-input-evdev
xserver-xorg-input-vmmouse
xserver-xorg-input-wacom

These packages are 1. Not yet upgraded to quantal replacements and 2. Preventing any more upgrades.

Even if I finally do manage keep my current xserver-xorg-video-trident locked/held. How can I make sure it stays that way. Any mass upgrade (apt-get, synaptic, software updater) wants to upgrade or remove xserver-xorg-video-trident and _will not even warn me_ that it's about to mess with a held package.

Before I spend another 7 or 8 days poking around with these, I'd like to know if there's a way I have not discovered to keep and use my trident driver and not let my system know/mess with it. I mean, is it possible, for instance to run only my video and driver in a protected chroot environment while utilizing the latest lubuntu on my system? Is there any way I can keep and use the driver and hide it from package managers or anything else trying to update my video driver?

I've searched the message boards and found that all other attempts have been abandoned or otherwise failed. Is there anything new on this card?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-11-07
12.10 is no longer supported by Canonical or the forums and hasn't been for a long time so not an issue. Please read [THIS]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2229730"). You are fighting an uphill battle. Stick with 12.04 LTS (supported until April 2017) or 14.04 LTS (April 2019). 

You won't be getting updates, upgrades or anything else for 12.10. Long dead. Post a new thread if you need help with a clean install of a supported release. Good luck.

*Thread closed.*

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-11-08
Thread re-opened.

In fact I believe Lubuntu 12.04 has also passed end of life - it wasn't a LTS like the parent Ubuntu. You need to consider upgrading to or re-installing with 14.04 or 14.10. If you need help with that, bearing in mind your video card issue, you are welcome to ask in this thread.

---

