---
title: "12.10 Switchable Graphics"
date: 2013-02-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by AdamEf93 on 2013-02-19
Hi all.

I just made the switch to 12.10 as my primary OS and am trying to switch my graphics. I have an HP Pavilion DM4 laptop with a Radeon chip in it (the model escapes me) that really eats up battery life. I don't do a lot of gaming on my laptop, so I'd be fine with switching to the integrated Intel chip to save my battery life. There are no options in the BIOS to force one GPU over the other. Any solutions are welcome. 

Disclaimer: I have no idea what I'm doing with "making things installable" and the like. The extent of my knowledge with installing things on Ubuntu begins and ends with copying and pasting whatever you tell me into terminal. 

Thanks

---

### Post by AdamEf93 on 2013-02-22
I've come across this guide a couple times, but can't find the download. It looks like it's been removed. Any help?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2083181](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2083181)

tl;dr bump

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-02-22
The specific model of the radeon chip is important because AMD dropped support last summer for the  HD 2x/3x/4x series and their driver for those will not work with Ubuntu 12.10 due to a different X-server version.

---

### Post by AdamEf93 on 2013-02-22
Attached is a picture of my additional drivers, showing my card and driver options. If I use anything but the first option, then Unity doesn't load when I log in and I have to do everything through terminal. This includes the few times I've installed the Catalyst software. I've also tried completely purging my system of Radeon drivers and installing Intel drivers, which led to the same result.

---

### Post by AdamEf93 on 2013-02-25
Anyone? My battery life isn't getting any better.

Bump.

---

### Post by SimonDPRZ on 2013-02-25
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1930450&page=66](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1930450&page=66)

check this out

---

