---
title: "11.10: install, upgrade, or boot from CD, nothing is ouputed to the screen."
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mothergoose729 on 2011-10-14
I have an AMD llano based system. I have an AMD a8-3850 APU. Driver support on 11.04 was terrible but at least it mostly worked. There were issues with 11.04 and llano that were supposed to be resolved with new drivers and the new linux 3.0 kernel on 11.10. However, when I upgrade, install, or even attempt to boot from a live CD nothing is outputted to the screen. I have tried this with both ubuntu and kubuntu 64 bit. Is there anything that can be done to help this?

---

### Post by WasMeHere on 2011-10-14
Hi mothergoose729,

Did you backup your system before tampering with it? In that case, reinstall and do something else for at least a couple of weeks until Oneiric has become more stable!

Then, have fun finding out about Ubuntu ;-)
Olle

---

### Post by mothergoose729 on 2011-10-14
> **Olle Wiklund said:**
> Hi mothergoose729,

Did you backup your system before tampering with it? In that case, reinstall and do something else for at least a couple of weeks until Oneiric has become more stable!

Then, have fun finding out about Ubuntu ;-)
Olle


Well the problem appears to be kernel 3.0, not 11.10. If I attempt to manually update the kernel in 11.04 to 3.0, my display issues, rather then being fixed, are completely broken like when I try and use 11.10. So I am not holding my breath for a fix any time soon. I am going back to windows on this computer. The progress on these issues is monumentally frustrating, to say the least.

---

### Post by WasMeHere on 2011-10-14
What about Ubuntu 10.04 LTS? Have you tried it live? It might work well unless your hardware is new (I don't know enough to tell from your description). Or another linux distro, you might find a distro that is much better for your particular hardware.

But honestly, I think a lot of bug-fixing will happen within a few weeks.

---

### Post by Mauser1891 on 2011-10-17
Ok, for us AMD A-series users we need the xorg.config changed on the boot/install disc's.
I happen to have a A6-3400M where everything is ok, until the currently used ATI config "black screens".  Which I am unable to switch to the cli or anythings else.  
It's not a stability issue.
Sorry, I just read about this in a newly resolved xorg.config from a user simply doing an upgrade from 11.04.  This needs to be resolved by *buntu staff, else other new people will drop *buntu and not attempt to use a linux distro.  *buntu tends to be the mostly first used distro of all other linux's.  Which I qualify from DistroWatch "polling".
My bet is that this will be fixed in the next few days.

---

### Post by bbrg548 on 2011-11-02
I've installed Ubuntu 11.10 (32-bit) on a Toshiba Satellite L775D-S7305, with the AMD A6-3400M quad-core, using the alternate install CD, and I'm getting the same issue: screen shuts down, keyboard shuts down (the number lock light goes off), and I have to do a power button reset to get out of it, but I can hear the startup sound.

It looks like there may be a fix available [here]("http://phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?60883-AMD-A6-3400M-not-working-on-Linux-kernel-3.0"). I'm not at home right now to try it, but when I do I'll post the results here.

**Update:** No joy. Still looking for a fix.

---

### Post by bbrg548 on 2011-11-03
**Another Update:** I got it working last night by installing 11.04 from the CD (overwriting the non-functional 11.10 installation), installing the fglrx driver, and then running an upgrade to 11.10. Everything is working, except I get the dead keyboard & touchpad issue - which can be 'fixed' by shutting down using a USB mouse, and then unplugging the mouse before restarting. Once the system is up, you can plug the mouse back in if you want.

---

### Post by WasMeHere on 2011-11-03
Thanks for sharing bbrg548,

Having fun finding out:-)
Olle

---

