---
title: "11.04 Touchscreen calibration"
date: 2011-05-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kingstonandy on 2011-05-11
Hi, I'm a Noob.

Just installed Ubuntu and Xubuntu on several machines and all going well except...

I can't find a way to calibrate a touchscreen, I'm using a Microtouch EXII and all the info on the net seems to be out of date, links to driver downloads are dead.

Evdev seems to half work, the device is recognised and sort of works but the X axis is inverted and the cursor position needs a little calibrating, I cannot work out how to do this. Surely thre must be a calibration function built in somewhere?

---

### Post by kingstonandy on 2011-05-13
For the benefit of anyone else who might be struggling to calibrate a touchscreen under Ubuntu 11.04 this is what I did.

The driver is evdev, this is installed by default. Settings are found in /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-evdev.conf

You'll need to be root to edit the file.

You can use ```
Option  "InvertX" "true"
``` or ```
Option "InvertY" "true"
``` if you need to.

In a terminal window type "sudo evtest /dev/input/eventX"

Try various numbers for "X", each one will be a different input device, my touchscreen was event5 yours may well be different.

Now watching the output of evtest, touch the four corners of the screen one at a time make a note of the coordinates. Note the lowest and highest value each for the X and Y axes.

In 10-evdev.conf create the option

```
Option  "Calibration" "*minx maxx miny maxy*"

```Replacing *minx maxx miny maxy *with the figures you got from evtest.

I wasted a lot of time on this, trying all sorts of calibration utilities, none of which worked. I couldn't believe how simple it is and that nobody had written a guide.
I'm using a 3M MicroTouch EXII but this should work for any touchscreen as far as I can see.

Don't blame me if it doesn't I'm very new to Linux.

---

### Post by chadgauth on 2011-05-15
I'm sorry if this is a newb question, but how do you get the evtest to run to get the calibration screen up? I got the program installed using the .deb, but I just don't know how to run it.

---

### Post by kingstonandy on 2011-05-15
In a terminal window type "sudo evtest /dev/input/eventX"

Try various numbers for "X", each one will be a different input device.

---

### Post by FutureWaves on 2011-05-15
I'm trying to follow this thread to get my LG Flatron L1730SF to work.

A small detail - You don't need to be out of the GUI to make the adjustments to the files. Just open a terminal and type 'sudo nautilus'. Then you are running Nautilus as root and can use the file handler that opens, navigate to the file, make any changes you wish and save the file as you normally do.

Thx

---

### Post by kingstonandy on 2011-05-16
Thanks, I've updated post #2 and corrected a typo. The option is "Calibration" not "Configuration"

---

### Post by christiaan_ on 2011-08-28
Thank you for this. 

**xinput calibrator** can also be used to obtain the calibration data instead of evtest, and is easier and more user-friendly.
 
Here is a quick touchscreen calibration step-by-step guide using xinput calibrator.

[URL="http://www.thefanclub.co.za/how-to/how-ubuntu-1104-touchscreen-calibration"]How to - Ubuntu 11.04 Touchscreen calibration
[/URL]

---

### Post by riscsys on 2011-10-26
My problem 
I am using 11.10 and 10.10 ubuntu. I have 23 inc Hp 2310ti touchmonitor. I want to use Verticaly and convert the screen settings left but touchscreen not convert the same way.

I try changeaxis but not success.

How can I do ?

Thank you.

---

### Post by Nostrildarmus on 2012-02-25
> **kingstonandy said:**
> 


You can use ```
Option  "InvertX" "true"
``` or ```
Option "InvertY" "true"
``` if you need to.


Not quite sure what you mean here... Where do I input that? (btw, total newbie, so any help would be very appreciated).

---

### Post by polosatij on 2012-04-01
That's good howto:
[http://www.thefanclub.co.za/how-to/how-ubuntu-1104-touchscreen-calibration](http://www.thefanclub.co.za/how-to/how-ubuntu-1104-touchscreen-calibration)

---

