---
title: "Ati x1300 opensource config help"
date: 2009-05-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tkorth on 2009-05-11
Hi. I followed a guide that was posted on the ubuntu site. I have an ati radeon x1300 series gfx card. I thought I read somewhere that ubuntu vers. 9.04 is completely incompatible with any current open source drivers that I would be trying to install due to the xserver xorg uses. If there is any confirmation please let me know. 

I have been fiddling with my xorg file for hours now and so far it looks like this:


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "x1300"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:00:07.0"
        Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
        Option          "BusType" "PCI"
        Option          "AGPMode" "1"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-72
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "x1300"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1440x900" "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
EndSection


Is there anything wrong with this config? I've tried to run warsow and it loads to the menu with very choppy and 'slow' graphics.

---

### Post by krazyd on 2009-05-11
Did you try running warsow straight out of the box, before mangling your xorg.conf?

x1300 is supported by the open source driver and so should have acceleration without you having to do anything.

---

### Post by gaalaaant on 2009-05-12
Please post a link to that guide, as I am having the same problem.  Also, are you by anychance using a Toshiba Satellite A215 S series?

---

