---
title: "8.04 gatway 450ROG touchpad issues"
date: 2008-04-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by thematthewknot1 on 2008-04-22
I have been running ubuntu on my gateway 450ROG laptop for sometime now, i started with 7.04 ran great, upgraded to 7.10 ran great, I decided to try 8.04. I got a seprate harddrive installed 7.10 worked great, upgraded to 8.04beta and the touchpad stopped working, So i looked in the x.org file and sure enough it was still there, i compared the x.org between my 7.10 and 8.04 install the are the same. Any idea why my touch pad will not work on 8.04? I can use it if i have a mouse pluged in, but that kinda defeats the purpose of a laptop. Thanks for all your help

---

### Post by thematthewknot1 on 2008-04-23
heres my xorg.conf file if that will help any, i upgreaded to the 8.04 rc and still same issue worked fine in 7.10 



```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"vmmouse"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Jekyll on 2008-04-24
> **thematthewknot1 said:**
> I have been running ubuntu on my gateway 450ROG laptop for sometime now, i started with 7.04 ran great, upgraded to 7.10 ran great, I decided to try 8.04. I got a seprate harddrive installed 7.10 worked great, upgraded to 8.04beta and the touchpad stopped working, So i looked in the x.org file and sure enough it was still there, i compared the x.org between my 7.10 and 8.04 install the are the same. Any idea why my touch pad will not work on 8.04? I can use it if i have a mouse pluged in, but that kinda defeats the purpose of a laptop. Thanks for all your help

I'm having the same problem on a Samsung Q35.

Looking at the logs on my box there don't seem to be any problems with the daemons, but pressing the key (fn-f9 on my machine) which should activate the touchpad brings up this message in var/log/messages:

> 
atkbd.c: Unknown key pressed (translated set 2 code Oxf9 on isa0060/seria0)
atkbd.c: Use setkeycodes e079 <keycode> to make it known.


The only thing is, I'm not sure what keycode I should use to activate the touchpad so I can't actually fix the damned thing...

Anyway, check your message logs (in control centre under system log) and try toggling the touchpad to see if you're getting the same error messages I do.

---

### Post by thematthewknot1 on 2008-04-24
I tried but i do not have a button to activate/deactivate the touch pad on my keyboard, i think they must have dropped support or something for this what ever it is i hate it i mean this defeats the purpose of a laptop:mad:

i did find this however in my Xorg.O.log file
```
(EE) Synaptics Touchpad no synaptics touchpad detected and no repeater device
(EE) Synaptics Touchpad Unable to query/initialize Synaptics hardware.
(EE) PreInit failed for input device "Synaptics Touchpad"
(II) UnloadModule: "synaptics"
```

---

### Post by Yoshiman007 on 2008-04-25
I don't know if this will help you or not, but in my xorg file, i had both the "nipple" (is that what you call it?) and the touchpad set to be "Core Pointers". Once i turned off the core pointer for the nipple and left it on for the touchpad, they both worked.

xorg:

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	**Option		"CorePointer"**
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

---

### Post by eamonireland on 2008-04-29
I have the came problem of the touchpad not working on a dell xps m1330. I found a posting somewhere that showed me how to reactivate it.

~$ sudo rmmod psmouse
~$ sudo modprobe psmouse

This works fine, but I don't know how to get it to execute every time I reboot? How do you get terminal commands to execute on start up?

---

### Post by awaldram on 2008-05-02
Hi Guys

The problem seems to be related to all the extraneous stuff that xorg 7.3 doesn't need in xorg.conf

Because you have manually altered it dpkg will not correct it.

make a copy then run the following

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg


That should fix it for you.

---

### Post by capnkyle on 2008-05-04
I am having a mouse touch pad issue as well, although I am not sure if it is the same as in this thread.  I have already made a [_post_](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4879929) in the general help forum, and have tried the fix that was given in post #6 of this thread, but it didn't work.

I have not installed Ubuntu yet, I am using the live cd for now as I dont really want to install if the touch pad is going to freak out like it is.

Any suggestions?

---

