---
title: "9.10 LiveCD hangs install or boot"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by airencracken on 2009-11-06
Seems to stop at kernel_thread_helper+0x7/0x10

9.04 install disc works fine, boots into 8.10 just fine. Odd.

Want to do a clean install of 9.10 for ext4 and grub2.

Laptop hardware in signature.

---

### Post by airencracken on 2009-11-06
I'm going to download the alternate install CD sometime this weekend, see if that works.

---

### Post by airencracken on 2009-11-09
Nope Alternative Install CD didn't fix it either. Anyone have any idea of what the problem may be?

---

### Post by airencracken on 2009-11-11
No ideas? Do you guys want a lshw of the lappy?

Trying to file a bug about this, but the servers keep timing out. I'll try later though.

---

### Post by SDL on 2009-11-11
Are you still using noapic as [per your previous post?]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1020157")

I had a similar problem with 9.04 and 9.10 using acpi=off. [This solution worked for me]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308080"), you could maybe try something similar if you're still using noapic?

Good luck.

---

### Post by airencracken on 2009-11-11
> **SDL said:**
> Are you still using noapic as [per your previous post?]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1020157")

I had a similar problem with 9.04 and 9.10 using acpi=off. [This solution worked for me]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308080"), you could maybe try something similar if you're still using noapic?

Good luck.

Thanks for the reply. That was with my desktop actually, so no I'm not using noapic. I tried running the alt install disc with apic apci and a bunch of stuff turned off in the options, but it still wouldn't boot. Can't imagine what it is.

---

### Post by BigVinnyVito on 2009-12-16
I have been using for about 2 years now with no ipod problems. however after upgrading to 9.10 issues have ensued.  The first time i tried to add music to my ipod after doing so, after unmounting the device the music no longer appeared on my ipod.  If i checked the storage, all the memory was still being taken up, and if i remounted the ipod the files appeared in rhythybox.  I restored the system to the factory setting, but this keeps happening.  does anyone know how to fix this?

---

### Post by agingric on 2009-12-16
try burning a another ubuntu cd, being sure to select the slowest possible write speed.  then after you boot up with the cd in, use the check option to verify if the disk is free of errors.

---

### Post by airencracken on 2010-01-08
> **agingric said:**
> try burning a another ubuntu cd, being sure to select the slowest possible write speed.  then after you boot up with the cd in, use the check option to verify if the disk is free of errors.

Yeah, that was my first thought as well. I can't even boot into the check option, but I checked my download against the md5 and it was okay. I figured I'd download the alpha of 10.04 and it doesn't work either.

Interestingly enough, I was fairly frustrated and I ended up downloading Fedora 12 to see if it was an Ubuntu specific problem. Lo and behold, Fedora 12 hangs on the install as well, though I can't see the specific error.

Oddly enough none of the three will boot into the LiveCD environment either. I'm wondering if it's a kernel issue at this point. I can't really be sure without more testing, which is a bit beyond me at this point unfortunately.

I was able to successfully install 9.04, but 9.10 just doesn't work. I don't really know what the problem is. :/

---

### Post by airencracken on 2010-01-13
I'm thinking what I probably should do now is attempt an Arch or Gentoo install to see what particular component fails.

I think I'll try Arch first though as I don't fancy the idea of compiling binaries on my oldish laptop. (It would take quite some time.)

---

