---
title: "Touchscreen for panasonic cf-29  almost got it for ubuntu 8.10 confided"
date: 2009-02-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Tburk456 on 2009-02-06
I have got the means, just stuck a where to input this line on the xorg.conf
This the original file below. where do I put the commands at the bottom of this post. 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
  
This is how the file looks and I need to find where to input this
in the top commands please someone put these two together so It can save and edit the right way.

:(
Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier "touchscreen"
    Driver "evtouch"
    Option "Device" "/dev/input/event1"
    Option "DeviceName" "touchscreen"
    Option "MinX" "98"
    Option "MinY" "43"
    Option "MaxX" "940"
    Option "MaxY" "925"
    Option "ReportingMode" "Raw"
    Option "Emulate3Buttons"
    Option "Emulate3Timeout" "50"
    Option "SendCoreEvents" "On"
EndSection

All I need to know is where to put these commands in the top commands.

use these link to help

 [http://stz-softwaretechnik.com/~ke/touchscreen/evtouch.html](http://stz-softwaretechnik.com/~ke/touchscreen/evtouch.html)

---

### Post by Tburk456 on 2009-02-10
Bump

---

