---
title: "8.10 Radeon Mobility 7500 driver"
date: 2009-02-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by burdock on 2009-02-23
Hello all,

First off, let me say that I am a new Linux user. I have tried several times in the past to use different versions of Linux but always get frustrated and end up switching back to Windows. However; Im determined to get it working this time.

I have an older laptop (2003 I think) that has a Radeon Mobility 7500 graphics card in it.

As far as I can tell, ATI manufactured this card for Gateway. The card has since been discontinued but because the card wasnt retailed, ATI no longer supports it. Basically, its really hard to find drivers for this card even in windows.

I have been reading a lot about some of the available Linux drivers that are around but most of the material Im reading is pretty old or the "how to's" stray a bit from what Im experiencing and I dont know enough to be able to figure it out by myself.

I eventually want to get Beryl running but I figure I should get all the hardware configured and working correctly first.

So now my question...

What driver do I use for this card and how do I install it?

Thanks,
Burdock

---

### Post by burdock on 2009-02-23
Help??....anyone?

---

### Post by Seq on 2009-02-23
Use the open source 'ati' driver. This is the default.

The fglrx (proprietary ATI drivers) do not support anything below the mobile 9500 according to the website (I had thought it was 8500+, but maybe things changed).

Note that Beryl is essentially dead. It merged with Compiz a while back and is called "Compiz-fusion". You should just use the compiz version that comes with Ubuntu (from memory I can not recall if the 7500 supports all the needed features). Can you change the visual effects in the "Appearance" preferences?

Oddly enough, I just got my Gateway rog450 back from my Dad. It has an ati 7500 in it as well. I just put it in my basement Saturday until i could figure out what to do with it. I'll fire it up tonight.

---

### Post by burdock on 2009-02-23
How will I know if the open source ati driver is installed and working?

---

### Post by burdock on 2009-02-23
Sorry for being such a n00b....but???

---

### Post by 00b00nt00 on 2009-02-24
The ATI driver will be installed by default. Unless you have modified your computer, it will have the ATI driver installed.

---

