---
title: "Gt 1030"
date: 2017-05-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by puffomon on 2017-05-29
Hi, i have a hard time finding any info about support for this card since its pretty new.

I just bought a Nvidia GT1030
Is this card supporterd by Ubuntu 16.04.x?

I do not want to use properity drivers, id rather have opensource drivers since i had bad experience with prop drivers.

Will I have to wait before i install this card?

Current setup:
i5 4590 using integrated HD4600.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-29
Did you see this.
 MSI GeForce GT 1030: A $70 Passively-Cooled Graphics Card, Decent With OpenGL/Vulkan/OpenCL/VDPAU
Compare  integrated HD Graphics 630, other nVidia & Radeon on i7-7700K box running Ubuntu 17.04 x86_64
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=nvidia-geforce-1030&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=nvidia-geforce-1030&num=1) 

But I think to take advantage of any newer video card you have to use the proprietary driver. It takes a while before the open source drivers include new features for new cards. Most vendors do not open up on details to help the developers.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-05-30
> I do not want to use proprietary drivers, I'd rather have opensource drivers

The open source nouveau driver only has very basic support (no support to run at anything other than minimum clocks, no video decode acceleration) for GTX 900/1000 cards. It's not really an option until nvidia releases all of the necessary signed firmware blobs.

As for the proprietary driver, I don't think Ubuntu 16.04 has the needed nvidia 381.22 driver available in the standard repo(s). You would need to use: [https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa)

---

### Post by puffomon on 2017-07-16
So i would add this PPA and then it would find drivers in additional drivers?

I tried yesterday, and you are right, No add drivers found at all.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-07-16
No you would add the PPA and install the appropriate driver in synaptic. "nvidia-381" or something like that.

---

### Post by puffomon on 2017-07-17
You dont have a card to recommend that will do full HEVC (x265) support without having to add untrusted PPA's?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-07-17
You already bought the card and added the PPA. All you have to do is:
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-381
```
Don't make it more difficult than it has to be.

---

### Post by puffomon on 2017-07-17
ive tried this now, yea GPU works great.

Having problems though~ Some hevc files plays using "HW acceleration" but most still uses SW encoding.

"Using X.Org X Server - Nouveau display driver from xserver-xorg-video-nouveau (open source)"
^
is what is marked as driver atm

should i use

"Nvidia binary driver version 384.47 from nvidia-384 (open source)"

instead?

---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-07-18
Did you reboot after installing nvidia-381 (which I am using for my GTX 1060)? The newest version in the ppa is nvidia-384. But whatever showed **"Using X.Org X Server - Nouveau display driver from xserver-xorg-video-nouveau (open source)"** means that you were not using nvidia drivers yet at that time. I don't know what hevc is, so I cannot answer if or how well that works.

You may also want to install **mesa-utils** which includes **glxinfo** to provide details of current graphics drivers being used, and **glxgears** just to test if graphics is working properly. For example once nvidia drivers are installed and operational glxinfo will show in part (but your GT 1030 and nvidia version):```
direct rendering: Yes
server glx vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
server glx version string: 1.4
...
OpenGL vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: GeForce GTX 1060 3GB/PCIe/SSE2
OpenGL core profile version string: 4.5.0 NVIDIA 381.22
OpenGL core profile shading language version string: 4.50 NVIDIA
```

---

### Post by puffomon on 2017-07-18
I tried every drivers from 381 and up, i had hw acceleration only on some x265 files. Drivers was loaded, also had Nvidia control panel, that told me HEVC was supported.
X264 workd fine with vpdau. I

However, the PC randomly froze, and it even restarted once, very unstable system. I wouldnt recommend this ppa and this card to anyone.

So i removed everything and now im back to intel gpu.

---

### Post by buisteric on 2018-01-13
Hi,

Ubuntu 16.04 supposedly has 384.90 which is more recent than 381, but the card is detected as a standard VGA card, so no 1080p, no HW acceleration, nothing. Once again, I'm disappointed. It is now most of the times I buy something, I'm super disappointed and frustrated when trying it on Linux. Even if I search before, nothing seems to work because every device has minor or major issues, so I just cannot get things sorted out.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-01-13
The nVidia driver is not installed by default.
If you want the current nVidia included with Ubuntu version, you just need to install it from either command line or from System Settings, Software & Updates, Additional drivers tab.
Or add the ppa and all the even newer nVidia drivers will be shown.

Do not install directly from nVidia as driver is not reconfigured for Ubuntu, just a generic Linux driver.
And always purge one driver before installing another or you get conflicts. The nVidia driver does not un-install previous driver.

 #What is installed
dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia
dkms status
lsmod | grep nvidia 
   # Shows standard repository versions, which is the same as
System Settings, Software & Updates icon, Additional drivers tab
ubuntu-drivers devices

---

### Post by buisteric on 2018-01-13
sudo apt-get install nvidia-384 solved it. By default, Ubuntu installs the 340 driver when using the "proprietary drivers" GUI. Installing nvidia-384 removed nvidia-340 and after a reboot, I got 1080p.

---

### Post by puffomon on 2018-05-02
Is gt1030 supported by Ubuntu 18.04 nowdays? w/o adding ppa's?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2018-05-02
> **puffomon said:**
> Is gt1030 supported by Ubuntu 18.04 nowdays? w/o adding ppa's?
Yes, just install the [nvidia-driver-390]("apt:nvidia-driver-390") package
[[IMG]https://i.imgur.com/Pnsr91Hl.png[/IMG]]("https://i.imgur.com/Pnsr91H.png")

---

### Post by puffomon on 2018-09-02
I ment if Ubuntu has its own drivers in "software and updates", i dont like using closed drivers from Nvidia that crashes everytime Linux updates its kernels.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-09-02
Each version of Ubuntu has the default nVidia drivers that was available when Ubuntu version was finalized.
There is then the ppa that has modified/compiled the nVidia drivers to be just like if they were in the repository.
And we do not recommend the direct download from nVidia A .run file, as then you have to update with each kernel release.

       Instructions are newest driver for newest cards, must load legacy driver if old nVidia card.
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2015/08/ubuntu-nvidia-graphics-drivers-ppa-is-ready-for-action](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2015/08/ubuntu-nvidia-graphics-drivers-ppa-is-ready-for-action)
Details on why and future incorporation to Ubuntu installer
[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2015-August/004693.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2015-August/004693.html) 
   # Shows standard repository versions, which is the same as
System Settings, Software & Updates icon, Additional drivers tab
ubuntu-drivers devices

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2018-09-02
> **puffomon said:**
> I meant if Ubuntu has its own drivers in "software and updates". I don't like using closed drivers from Nvidia that crash every time Ubuntu updates its kernels.

Ubuntu doesn't make its own drivers. It packages the proprietary nvidia drivers. Ubuntu 18.04 has the 390.48 driver, which supports the GT1030.

Open-source nouveau drivers are still a no go for getting any sort of decent performance.

---

### Post by dejanstosic7 on 2019-06-20
Hey, 

i'm thinking of getting this GPU. I don't need it for gaming, i'm just wondering if someone is using it in 4K on Ubuntu 18.04 or later, how's the performance, does the UI seems fluid, does it seem like desktop programs and browser animations are running smoothly at 4k@60HZ?

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-06-20
4K is 3840x2160 pix

A GT1030 can output 7680x4320 pix

That makes it 5K capable

and no I don't own one

annnd welcome to the forum :)

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2019-06-21
the 30 series is entry level into gaming. really entry level  (let's say light gaming). but it is still much more capable and GPU on CPU chips. and those can support 4K i believe.

---

### Post by dejanstosic7 on 2019-06-21
> **cruzer001 said:**
> 4K is 3840x2160 pix

A GT1030 can output 7680x4320 pix

That makes it 5K capable

and no I don't own one

annnd welcome to the forum :)

Thanks :D

Yeah i know, that's true in theory, but i'm wondering if it really runs smoothly in practice, mainly for standard desktop apps and for browsing, does it feel like 60hz at 4k :D I'm slightly worried since it's a bit older card and it's somewhat cheap.

---

### Post by poorguy on 2019-06-24
FWIW.

I have a ***PNY Geforce 210 PCIE ***installed in a ***Dell Optiplex XE*** running ***Ubuntu-Mate 18.04, ***OK not the best graphics card but free is good and I'm cheap.


***Nvidia proprietary driver*** vs ***Nouveau open source driver.***

After trying both drivers I find the ***Nouveau open source driver ***to work better than the ***Nvidia proprietary driver***. 

Give both drivers a try and see which works best as the ***Nvidia proprietary driver ***doesn't always give satisfactory results.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-06-24
You new card should be a good upgrade to internal video:
[https://www.videocardbenchmark.net/compare/GeForce-GT-1030-vs-Intel-HD-4600/3757vs2451](https://www.videocardbenchmark.net/compare/GeForce-GT-1030-vs-Intel-HD-4600/3757vs2451)

---

