---
title: "10.04: USB LAN chip no longer recognized at startup."
date: 2013-09-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Moozillaaa on 2013-09-09
It has just started doing this after 2 years NEVER doing this.

Nothing has changed, except for a new modem / router combo (which is OUTSIDE the USB LAN connector).

I'm running 10.04.

***/etc/init.d/networking restart*** does nothing.

Restart computer does nothing.

Restart recovery kernel does nothing.

After 5 minutes or so, it connects automatically..

How do I 'ping' on-board devices?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-09-09
It's not worth the effort to troubleshoot 10.04. Better to go for a fresh install of a supported version.

---

### Post by Moozillaaa on 2013-09-09
> **mörgæs said:**
> It's not worth the effort to troubleshoot 10.04. Better to go for a fresh install of a supported version.

Yep - too bad it's not worth it to you there.

But GOOD news! It's worth it to one of those who matter - ME [IMG]http://www.zr1.net/forum/images/smilies/eusa_dance.gif[/IMG]

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-09-10
My guess is that most users here do not bother with 10.04 either, but you are of course welcome to wait and see if an answer pops up. 

Signing out.

---

### Post by VMC on 2013-09-10
> **Moozillaaa said:**
> It has just started doing this after 2 years NEVER doing this.

Nothing has changed, except for a new modem / router combo (which is OUTSIDE the USB LAN connector).

I'm running 10.04.

***/etc/init.d/networking restart*** does nothing.

Restart computer does nothing.

Restart recovery kernel does nothing.

After 5 minutes or so, it connects automatically..

How do I 'ping' on-board devices?USB & 5-minutes is a flag. In doing your updates, did it include a new kernel?
Regardless, what is your kernel now (uname -r). If it is a kernel issues, it has been fixed recently. See this [bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-lts-raring/+bug/1207934"). Check syslog after the 5min wait and see if you encounter the problem.

---

### Post by Moozillaaa on 2013-09-11
> **VMC said:**
> USB & 5-minutes is a flag. In doing your updates, did it include a new kernel?
Regardless, what is your kernel now (uname -r). If it is a kernel issues, it has been fixed recently. See this [bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-lts-raring/+bug/1207934"). Check syslog after the 5min wait and see if you encounter the problem.

edit:
Just noticed the syslog reference too there VMC; I don't know exactly what your referring to. Is this just a log file? Which would tell me what's making the connection 'enable' spontaneously???

==============================================================================

THanks there VMC...
kernel is 2.6.32-46-generic; not updated for at LEAST several months. Everything has been working perfectly, no problems whatsoever.

I DO think the new modem / router is somehow the problem. 

It also seems to have triggered SOMEhow, a wireless driver problem, in a new Dell laptop, upon W8 RE-install. THAT ONE also did not have a connectivity problem, prior to the new modem / router installation. Doesn't make sense, but that's the ONLY variable in common to both machines. I'm going to connect 2 other machines, then connect the old modem and router, shortly here, to further investigate. 

I'm wondering if modem software is writing TO the connected devices, in SOME form or fashion... :confused: :confused: :confused:

[**[COLOR=#C61919][B]mörgæs**[/COLOR][/B]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=939075") - solving a problem ***like*** this would have applications in newer OS's. At the very least, it makes you THINK, which is ALWAYS good, for solving ANY problem. Trust me...

---

### Post by VMC on 2013-09-11
I'm sure you thought of this, but try downloading a newer Ubuntu and test the USB modem with the LiveCD. If it works then some upgrade fixed it - modem, USB.
Unfortunately, your LTS has reached its EOL.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-09-11
Try unplugging the USB-LAN dongle from both ends.  It could have some settings in flash memory that need clearing.  Otherwise, it could be a speed setting issue on the new modem.  Log into the modem from another machine and set the speed to 10MBs/sec or 100MB/sec.  My guess is that it takes a few minutes before it resets and starts communicating at the lower speed.

---

