---
title: "16.04: trackpad works, but doesn't click."
date: 2017-08-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by colapunk on 2017-08-21
hey!
so after sitting on 14.04 for three years i finally got around to doing a new install of 16.04. all went well (which i was a bit anxious about with my acer aspire with a radeon graphics card), and it runs smooth now.
..except: my trackpad/touchpad/mousethingy doesn't work properly. it points perfectly, i can even use two finger scroll, but to click i have to use the physical buttons instead of just tapping the pad, as i could before.
i googled a lot, and a lot of different trackpad problems pop up, but none are the same as mine, and none of the solutions i tried helped. 

this is what xinput gives me:
jochem@jochem-Aspire-E1-572G:~$ xinput
&#9121; Virtual core pointer                        id=2    [master pointer  (3)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Virtual core XTEST pointer                  id=4    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; ETPS/2 Elantech Touchpad                    id=13    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9123; Virtual core keyboard                       id=3    [master keyboard (2)]
    &#8627; Virtual core XTEST keyboard                 id=5    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                                id=6    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Video Bus                                   id=7    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                                id=8    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Sleep Button                                id=9    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Video Bus                                   id=10    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; HD WebCam                                   id=11    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; AT Translated Set 2 keyboard                id=12    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Acer WMI hotkeys                            id=14    [slave  keyboard (3)]

one of the solutions i found was to re-install synaptics. trying that gave me this odd reaction:

[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]Reading package lists... Done[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]Building dependency tree       [/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]Reading state information... Done[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]distribution that some required packages have not yet been created[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]or been moved out of Incoming.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]The following information may help to resolve the situation:
[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]The following packages have unmet dependencies:[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu] xserver-xorg-input-synaptics : Depends: xorg-input-abi-22[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]                                Depends: xserver-xorg-core (>= 2:1.17.99.902)[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]

now there's one thing i found on askubuntu that worked for me: typing "[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#111111][FONT=Consolas]synclient TapButton1=1 TapButton2=3 TapButton3=2" [FONT=arial]into terminal. this is not a pernanent fix though, after reboot it's gone. 

so, the question: does anyone know a permanent fix? 
[/FONT]
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by colapunk on 2017-08-25
no one? :(

---

