---
title: "External NTFS"
date: 2008-06-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by johngeorge on 2008-06-29
Hey,

I'm a bit of a noob, so please bear with me.

I recently installed the latest version of ubuntu together with Windows on a laptop just to see how i get on with it. I must say, compared to my last attempt a year ago, it was incredibly easy and everything just seems to work out of the box. Impressive.

Although... I have a 1.5TB external hard drive with lots of stuff on it. It's formatted NTFS the same as my Windows partition. I can view the windows partition without any problems, however, when I goto mount the external drive it simply throws the following error: "Unable to mount location. Can't mount file".

Am I missing something obvious here? Or is the problem something to do with the size of the drive?

John

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-06-29
With the drive plugged in, can you please post
```
sudo fdisk -l
mount
cat /etc/fstab
sudo blkid
```

---

### Post by johngeorge on 2008-06-30
_fdisk -l_
Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0d224742

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1         192     1536000   27  Unknown
Partition 1 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sda2   *         192       15392   122098688    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3           15393       15514      979965   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda4           15515       30401   119579827+  83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdb: 1500.3 GB, 1500312502272 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 182402 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xa0e16a41

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1      182403  1465146368    7  HPFS/NTFS


_mount_
/dev/sda4 on / type ext3 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.24-19-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/john/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=john)

_cat /etc/fstab_
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=641b8ba9-8016-4770-8d72-ca61e82076de / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=8dc8b3ec-cc6b-400a-805f-8618fb5c0a3c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0

_blikd_
/dev/sda1: UUID="4AA27A51A27A420D" LABEL="WinRE" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda2: UUID="28BC7DE3BC7DABC6" LABEL="Vista" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda3: TYPE="swap" UUID="8dc8b3ec-cc6b-400a-805f-8618fb5c0a3c" 
/dev/sda4: UUID="641b8ba9-8016-4770-8d72-ca61e82076de" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sdb1: UUID="3CFE58A9FE585CE8" LABEL="JohnCie" TYPE="ntfs"

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-06-30
> **johngeorge said:**
> Hey,

I'm a bit of a noob, so please bear with me.

I recently installed the latest version of ubuntu together with Windows on a laptop just to see how i get on with it. I must say, compared to my last attempt a year ago, it was incredibly easy and everything just seems to work out of the box. Impressive.

Although... I have a 1.5TB external hard drive with lots of stuff on it. It's formatted NTFS the same as my Windows partition. I can view the windows partition without any problems, however, when I goto mount the external drive it simply throws the following error: "Unable to mount location. Can't mount file".

Am I missing something obvious here? Or is the problem something to do with the size of the drive?

John

Is the external hdd USB?  USB hdds formatted in NTFS work fine in Ubuntu.  Since ntfs-3g is installed by default you also have write capability.

I have an NTFS firewire hdd that works fine in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-06-30
OK, let's try to manually mount the drive
```
sudo mkdir /media/external
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb1 /media/external
```
If there is any output from that last command, please post it back here.

---

### Post by vanadium on 2008-06-30
The chance is big that we are going to see an "unclean" ntfs volume here (= not properly closed). Ubuntu will not mount an unclean file system.

The solution is simple: load Windows, connect the drive, then properly disconnect the drive using the tray icon, or shut down Windows completely. After that, Ubuntu should auto-mount the drive with full permissions for the current user.

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-06-30
> **vanadium said:**
> The chance is big that we are going to see an "unclean" ntfs volume here (= not properly closed). Ubuntu will not mount an unclean file system.

The solution is simple: load Windows, connect the drive, then properly disconnect the drive using the tray icon, or shut down Windows completely. After that, Ubuntu should auto-mount the drive with full permissions for the current user.

I concur. Been there done that. I can verify that it works :D

---

### Post by johngeorge on 2008-06-30
That's wierd. I made doubly sure that I disonnected correctly from windows and then entirely shut down the computer... but still had no luck.

I followed Rocket2DMn's advice and manually mounted... now stuff seems to be working ok.

Thanks guys. I'll let you know if I continue to have troubles.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-06-30
When you unmount it you will need to unmount it from the terminal (it won't let you right click from the desktop or nautilus since you mounted from terminal).
```
sudo umount /dev/sdb1
```
Then you can try to unplug and plug it back in.

---

### Post by johngeorge on 2008-06-30
Is there a way I can mount the drive automatically on start up? The drive's connected to the machine 90% of the time... I may sound lazy as it's only tapping in 2 lines each time I start up, but it would be nice if I didn't have to.

---

### Post by johngeorge on 2008-06-30
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> When you unmount it you will need to unmount it from the terminal (it won't let you right click from the desktop or nautilus since you mounted from terminal).
```
sudo umount /dev/sdb1
```
Then you can try to unplug and plug it back in.

Whoops.. didn't read that bit before replying again.

I tried mounting then unmounting. Then unplugging... plugging... but it's still not having it. It seems I need to do it as sudo from a terminal.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-06-30
Normally you don't add external drives to the file /etc/fstab but we can add this one if you would like.  Open the file for editing, then add the new line I will give you:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
At the bottom, add the line
```
UUID=3CFE58A9FE585CE8 /media/external ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
```
Save and close.  The mount point has already been created, so just run
```
sudo mount -a
```
whenever you need to mount the drive but it isn't mounted yet.

It should show up on the desktop as either "JohnCie" (its label) or as "external".  I think it will use the label though (do let me know, I am curious).

---

### Post by johngeorge on 2008-06-30
Cool.

I edited the file and restarted the computer to see what would happen. The drive now automatically mounts as 'external'.

Thanks so much, you've been a great help.

---

