---
title: "Problems with Ubuntu on my netbook"
date: 2010-11-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bastani on 2010-11-25
Hello Everyone,
I have just bought an Asus Eee PC 1005P netbook and installed the latest version of Ubuntu Netbook Remix on it.
However, I have several problems with my system that I couldn't solve by myself and I appreciate if you can help me.
1- Some important functions of touch pad does not work in Ubuntu. More specifically, I had the options of two finger scrolling, rotating and zooming in and out in the original Windows 7 installed on the system while now it just works as an ordinary touchpad. 
2- I cannot turn off the touchpad using Fn+F3.
3- It seems that some of the power management functions does not work properly. For example, sometimes I cannot hibernate the system and the other times that I can do it, after resuming usually I have to close all programs, re-connect the wireless internet connection and such stuff to bring the system back to normal working mode. Or for example, in windows, when I closed the lid of the laptop, it automatically went to sleep and then hibernated, but now sometimes it does not do anything and some other times it just remains in the sleep mode even for days.
4- In windows there were an option that automatically adjusted the CPU performance and fan speeds according to battery situation and some other stuff, called Asus Super Hybrid Engine I cannot find such a program in Ubuntu? Is it really necessary and how can I install it?
5- is there any help or tutorial so I can get familiar with this new GUI of Ubuntu Netbook Remix? For example I don't know how to add or remove programs from this side bar or how to put some shortcuts on my desktop?
6- A very stupid question! Do I need an antivirus program in Linux as I needed in Windows?
I appreciate if anyone can help me, I really don't want to get back to Windows life!
Thanks a lot,
Mani

---

### Post by Fafler on 2010-11-25
1. [http://mixeduperic.com/linux/ubuntu-1004-how-to-setup-two-finger-scroll-on-laptop-touch-pad.html](http://mixeduperic.com/linux/ubuntu-1004-how-to-setup-two-finger-scroll-on-laptop-touch-pad.html)

2. If fn+F3 generates a keycode you can map it to something with this guide
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MultimediaKeys](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MultimediaKeys)

3. Weird. What about suspend? I rarely use hibernation, as suspending is much faster and less troublesome.

4. In the normal Ubuntu gui, you can a CPU Frequency Scaling Monitor to your panel. This probably also works with the Netbook Remix.

5. Probably. Maybe someone else have a link?

6. No. But there is ClamAV if you really want one. It's most useful for fileservers in Windows enviroments.

---

### Post by bastani on 2010-11-25
Thanks Fafler,
1- It works and brings me the two-finger scrolling option. However, the other options (zoom and rotate) are still not available. Moreover, when the computer comes back from Suspend mode I need to run the script manually once again to have the scrolling functions again. Is there any solutions?
2- How can I find the key code generated by Fn+F3? I pressed them in a terminal window but I get nothing.
3- The same happens for suspension. I need to reconnect the wifi connection to have the internet access after resuming from suspend mode. Moreover, even though in Power Management window, it seems that parameters are set correctly (for example suspend after 30 minutes of being idle and so on), sometimes they does not work. For example, when running on battery, the system remains turned on (and idle) for hours until the battery finishes and it will be switched off and as a result I loose everything!
4- Yeah, but I cannot find many of these nice features of the traditional Ubuntu in this new version. Even I cannot add any icons to the panel.

---

### Post by bastani on 2010-12-09
I could find some ways for adding icons to the sidebar panel. When one opens a program, then it is possible to right-click on its icon and choose "Keep in the Luncher"
However, the problem with touchpad still annoys me. I don't want to open the terminal and run the script to bring the multitouch functionalities back everytime I open my laptop (that means the resume from suspension). Does anyone have a solution?
I also had a very stupid problem recently, I tried to configure Evolution Mail client (I prefer Thunderbird but I would like to use the ability of Evolution Mail to be connected to Microsoft Exchange server of the university to keep my calendar synchronized as well). However, it seems that the windows of Evolution mail are too big for netbook screens. Strange, but when configuration wizard opens, I can only see a part of the window and bottom parts of the windows (which should probably contain Next, Back and ... buttons) are not visible because the height of the window is larger than my screen's height and I cannot reduce the window's size (I could increase its size but not decrease!). Can anyone help me on this issue as well?
Thanks a lot again,
Mani

---

### Post by Python Jedi on 2010-12-28
Don't know if you're still looking at this, but I found another command on the forums that does (effectively) the same thing, and I linked it to a keyboard shortcut (Mod4(windows key)+s). so all you have to do is hit that key whenever you log in or open it up.

---

### Post by bastani on 2010-12-31
For touchpad's problem, I found this:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad)

Simply installed the provided synaptics-dkms package and then the two finger scrolling can be enabled from System->Preferences->Mouse

---

