---
title: "14.04, SBL! Value gameport, Logitech adi driver recursive fault"
date: 2014-04-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Adamodell on 2014-04-24
I recently installed a SoundBlaster Live! Value in this old Dimension 2400 of mine, that's currently running Lubuntu (32-bit). I have a couple gameport controllers and a few gameport joysticks that I scalped up out of thrift stores and such, and I knew Linux could handle these still after all these years.

I opted for a Logitech Thunderpad (G-YB... probably just a normal Digital) that I had and I plugged it into the port- turned the computer on and read more about setting these up. A lot of information is very antiquated, and I doubt these modules are maintained much these days. I checked with lsmod- and all the necessary modules were already loaded (sans the actual controller module). joydev, emu10k1_gp and its linked gameport module were all there and up without user intervention.

At first, I tried the analog driver, but a couple buttons didn't function. It seems impossible to rig up the analog module to allow the pressing of the placeholder "start" and "select"-like buttons in the center (well, unless you use the incredibly complex by-bit settings).

A wiki page for Arch Linux speaks of a user discovering the adi module for these things. All ls well or so I thought! I unloaded the analog module, and loaded the adi module. The computer instantly crashed. I kept trying it, and it kept doing this. I decided to go into tty1 and run it- and at the end it ran into a recursive fault.

This is a *very* specific hardware issue, so I don't know if this is even remotely solvable. Someone with an SBL and a recent Linux (of probably any variety) could probably test the adi driver and see if it crashes (probably don't even need anything connected to the gameport). It might be an issue with communications, emu10k1_gp specifically. If it were, it would probably be something you could replicate on any machine with the card.

Kernel would be 3.13.0-19.39. If there's any log files anyone would like to look at- just tell me where to look. Also, if I have to turn anything on or install anything to log this particularity, I will. It's easily reproducible.
And if it's unsolveable, perhaps I could use the very particular by-bit settings if anyone could explain the syntax.

If it's impossible to work out, there's always this-

```
In case your joystick doesn't fit in any of the above categories, you can specify the type as a number by combining the bits in the table below. This
is not recommended unless you really know what are you doing. It's not
dangerous, but not simple either.


    Bit | Meaning
    --------------------------
     0  | Axis X1
     1  | Axis Y1
     2  | Axis X2
     3  | Axis Y2
     4  | Button A
     5  | Button B
     6  | Button C
     7  | Button D
     8  | CHF Buttons X and Y
     9  | CHF Hat 1
    10  | CHF Hat 2
    11  | FCS Hat
    12  | Pad Button X
    13  | Pad Button Y
    14  | Pad Button U
    15  | Pad Button V
    16  | Saitek F1-F4 Buttons
    17  | Saitek Digital Mode
    19  | GamePad
    20  | Joy2 Axis X1
    21  | Joy2 Axis Y1
    22  | Joy2 Axis X2
    23  | Joy2 Axis Y2
    24  | Joy2 Button A
    25  | Joy2 Button B
    26  | Joy2 Button C
    27  | Joy2 Button D
    31  | Joy2 GamePad]
```

If someone could explain the syntax, I might be able to rig all the buttons to working without adi.

---

