---
title: "15.10 on Asrock AM1H-ITX with Athlon 5350 APU"
date: 2016-03-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Mortesins93 on 2016-03-05
I decided to post this kind of review of how this motherboard has been working with ubuntu.
Everything seems to be working on Ubuntu MATE 15.10, I just had some problems with alsa and with suspending the machine. 
SUSPEND:
After installing the catalyst driver and after putting the mouse in a usb3 and not a usb2 it works. What I mean is that if I had the mouse plugged in a usb2 port, which are the ones on top of the ps2 port (all the other ports are usb3), when I tried resuming, the mouse would not work any more, and if I had the keyboard plugged in the other usb2 than also the keyboard stopped working. The strange thing is that if I remove the keyboard and mouse from the usb2 ports and put them in other usb ports than they start working again, and if then I try to put them back in the usb2 port they won't work, but if I plug in a usb flash drive in the usb2 port it works. So basically, after resuming, the usb2 ports work but not with the keyboard or mouse. The work around I found is putting only the keyboard in the usb2 port and the mouse in a usb3 port, this way I have no problem, after resuming everything works. Note that i tried with a different mouse and had the same result.
ALSA:
As soon as I installed the OS I had to run alsamixer and unmute the headphones. After that I had to use alsactl to save the configuration and then put the restore command in the /etc/rc.local script (with a sleep 5 preceding, otherwise the command would not work). In other words I had to run:
```
sudo alsactl store
```
and then put 
```
sleep 5
sudo alsactl restore
```
in the /etc/rc.local script.
Another strange thing are the front microphone jack and rear microphone jack. Basically, if they are unmuted in alsa, then I hear a white noise on the headphones, but if I mute both the microphones (in alsamixer) then the white noise dissappears. Fortunately, I don't know why, even if the microphones are muted in alsamixer they work (I tested them with audacity). So in conclusion, I keep the microphones muted in alsamixer so that I don't hear the white noise on the headphones, but they are still functional. 

Another problem I found, that is not hardware specific is the fact that the file manager crashes when deleting files inside symbolic links. But this can be solved by installing a newer version of the following package:
```
glib2.0
```
as explained here: 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1510587](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1510587) 
and here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glib2.0/+bug/1512826](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glib2.0/+bug/1512826)
Also, the trash wont work when deleting a file in a symbolic link that points to a separate hdd. Everything, including the solution, is explained here:
[http://www.kilobitspersecond.com/2012/01/08/trash-trouble-with-symbolic-links-from-home-to-separate-disk/](http://www.kilobitspersecond.com/2012/01/08/trash-trouble-with-symbolic-links-from-home-to-separate-disk/)

One last note on the performance, it is perfectly fine with normal tasks (web surfing and stuff) the only problem is flash. It works, I can play facebook games, but it lags a bit with fast games (like tetris battle). So yeah, if you plan on playing heavy flash games and most importantly "fast games" (like tetris, not stuff like candy crush), I'd go for some other hardware.

---

