---
title: "2.6.38-8-generic kernel woes, and grub2"
date: 2011-05-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by twopointfour on 2011-05-30
I'm running Ubuntu Natty, and every time I boot into 2.6.38-8-generic my computer crashes very early in the process. It just goes to a black screen and never finishes booting. I use dm-crypt/luks full disk encryption, and it doesn't even get to the part where it asks for my encryption passphrase, which means it must be a problem with vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic or one of the modules that gets loaded inside of initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic. I would love to file a bug report, but I'm not sure how or what piece of my hardware is causing the problem. Any suggestions? My laptop is a Toshiba Satellite M645-S4080.

Everything works fine when I boot into 2.6.35-28-generic.

And now some grub2 problems. When I edit /etc/default/grub (and run update-grub of course), this isn't working for me:

GRUB_DEFAULT="Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-28-generic"

It's just defaulting to the newer broken kernel still. I think it might be because that menuentry is underneath the "Previous Linux versions" submenu.

Also, changing:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

To just:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="splash"

Isn't working either. Ubuntu is booting with the splash screen, but it isn't displaying any of the boot messages like it should when I remove quiet. Any ideas about these? Thanks!

---

### Post by pr3zident on 2011-06-01
I have the same prob. W/ the same kernels is there no way to fix this kernel?
Dell xps one ubuntu 11.04

---

