---
title: "Nvidia Quadro K1100M / Ubuntu 13.10 Edition"
date: 2014-04-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tim28 on 2014-04-15
The short story is my new laptop was working so nicely on my embedded graphics, I didn't even think to get my dedicated card working. When I did, I was met with the same, repeatable failure, regardless of drivers or how I installed them. First, I tried

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current && sudo reboot now
```

Results in a *normal* looking log in screen, and then upon login the screen goes jet black. Move the mouse and my cursor appears, but that's as much as I get. The only way to fix it is to `apt-get remove --purge` anything with nvidia in the name, restore a backed up xorg.conf file, and reboot again.

Second attempt, going through the Ubuntu Software center's Additional Drivers tab. Click on the super fancy 337 drivers, install, reboot, *same results*. Normal login screen, complete with my wallpaper visible behind a normal unity-esque login form, but logging in brings me to a black screen. Looking at my xorg.conf, it's surprisingly unchanged despite the 337 install.

lspci -v gives the worrying:
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GK107GLM [Quadro K1100M] (rev ff) (prog-if ff)
        !!! Unknown header type 7f
```

If I knew what xorg.conf was supposed to look like, maybe I could manually edit the xorg.conf after I got to the black screen? I don't know, I'm not only at the end of my rope, I also feel like no one place is the right place to ask for help, so here I am. Thanks for reading!

More information:
I've been trying pretty much any driverset that goes my way, and the 337, 334, and even the official Quadro K1100M .run package from Nvivia.com all give me the same message in dmesg:

```
NVRM: The NVIDIA GPU 0000:01:00.0  (PCI ID: 10de:0ff6)
NVRM: installed in this system is nto supported by the XXXXX
NVRM: NVIDIA Linux driver release. Please see 'Appendix
NVRM: A - Supported NVIDIA GPU Products' in this release's
NVRM: README, available on the Linux driver download page
NVRM: at www.nvidia.com.
```

On the flip side, Nvidia's own driver download page has the Quadro K1100M listed plain as day.

The plot thickens...

## Solution
I found partial success with bumblebee, but after upgrading to 14.10, apparently this card (and optimus laptops in general) got a lot better hardware support. The thread was solved within four posts, if you're running into this issue on Ubuntu 13.10 like I was, read on \/\/

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2014-04-16
> **tim28 said:**
>  . . . If I knew what xorg.conf was supposed to look like, maybe I could . . .That may be the ONLY think I can help you with. I don't seem to have an xorg.conf, and I don't remember why that is, but I do have several backups and this is what is in the oldest one:```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 304.88  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-14)  Wed Mar 27 15:36:45 PDT 2013

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```Good luck.

---

### Post by tim28 on 2014-04-17
Here's nvidia's word on the subject:
[http://imgur.com/Bs6Lorg](http://imgur.com/Bs6Lorg)

Apparently Optimus machines that don't have bios options to turn off one video device or another are SOL when it comes to proprietary drivers. The best I could get in terms of support on #ubuntu was a link to bumblebee-project.org, so I'm hopnig that's a driver of some sort.

---

### Post by J_Me on 2014-04-17
Have you looked at 'nvidia prime'
This guy managed to get both his cards recognised on ubuntu 14.04 using nvidia driver 331.38 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2216848](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2216848)

---

### Post by tim28 on 2014-04-18
> **J_Me said:**
> Have you looked at 'nvidia prime'
This guy managed to get both his cards recognised on ubuntu 14.04 using nvidia driver 331.38 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2216848](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2216848)

I'm definitely trying this as soon as I get a chance.

My last attempts ended with partial functionality- Apparently the Bumblebee project is designed to get Optimus laptops doing what they're designed to do: use the Intel card 99% of the time to save battery life, and spin up the Nvidia Card for harder tasks, piping that output through the Intel card.

I followed the Ubuntu instructions for installation of bumblebee listed at bumblebee-project.org, and then I followed the instructions on the bumblebee wiki to upgrade my drivers. As somewhere along the way I added the xorg-edgers repository, I went straight to the nvidia-337 drivers. It worked, kind of.

The plus side is I can get GLX gears running at full speed (2200 FPS), as well as Kerbal Space Program playing like it's on a desktop (!), but the downside is that to run anything using the discrete Nvidia Card, it requires you run it from terminal, as "optirun ./<binary_file>" or "optirun -b none ./<binary_file>". Also, compiz (i.e, all Unity desktop effects) anh Hotline Miami can't run at all using optirun, and other programs like VLC drop to a leaner, less featured version of themselves to run correctly.

So yeah- if anyone else runs into this problem, as of the tail end of 13.10's development cycle your best option appearts to be to install Bumblebee-project.org's Bumblee software package from their own repository, and take what you get in terms of hardware acceleration. Will post again when I get 14.04 running, hopefully it's a clean upgrade process.

---

### Post by tim28 on 2014-04-19
Hot Damn it works!

I upgraded from 13.10 to 14.04, and surprisingly I had no error messages or hitches during the process, it went like silk.

I had bumblebee set up, so I backed up the bumblebee.conf, and remove --purged the installation (--purge means to remove associated files, like configuration files).
```
sudo cp /etc/bumblebee/bumblebee.conf ~/bumblebee.conf.backup.saturday
sudo apt-get remove bumblebee bumblebee-nivida primus --purge
```
And I also wrote 'sudo apt-get remove nvidia-' and double tapped tab to see all the nvidia packages I had installed. I removed them all with a similar command:
```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-337 nvidia-opencl1-337 nvidia-opencl-icd-337 nvidia-settings --purge
```
I also wrote down every package I uninstalled, so if it broke on reboot I could just Alt-Ctrl-F1 to drop to console and reinstall everything back to a working state.

The reason I ditched all this stuff is because in Ubuntu 14.04, all this is supposed to just sort of work, nvidia prime (a bumblebee-like/alternative) is a dependency of nvidia-331 which is in the official repository:
```
sudo apt-get install nividia-common nvidia-331
```
(source: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/HybridGraphics](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/HybridGraphics))

I rebooted, logged in, and looked for nvidia in the dash launcher, and there it was:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/KxfdrqM.png[/IMG]

According to the settings panel, I was already using my nvidia card:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/kXk0C7M.png[/IMG]

And via GLX gears, I could tell I certainly was. At a blazing 8k FPS!
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/Qf3NHGL.png[/IMG]

A successful upgrade all around, it even seems to have resolved other hardware issues I was running into. As I can now drag around windows in Unity without it eating up literally 1/3 of my total CPU power, I'm going to go ahead and mark this one as solved!

---

### Post by J_Me on 2014-04-19
Good to know things went smooth.

---

