---
title: "DWA-160 in 9.10"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by XPM on 2009-10-31
Well, finally it's detected out of the box.
Connection is also possible and the signal is good...
But the speed, according to the info, is at q1 MB/s..
Starting firefox, a page loads halfway through and then it seems like the net is throttled to a full halt.

What to do?

Revision A btw.

---

### Post by XPM on 2009-11-01
Bump!

---

### Post by Nesnej Trick on 2010-02-04
I have the same problem in Kubuntu 9.10. Knetworkmanager tells me the driver it is using is "usb" rather than "ar9170usb". How I interpret this is that the adapter works, but only on some kind of generic driver, which explains why bandwidth is abysmal and the connection unstable.

I'd really like to know how to fix this, because I tried to manually specify the driver in /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net-rules as such:
```
# USB device 0x07d1:0x3c10 (ar9170usb)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="ar9170usb", ATTR{address}=="00:24:01:a6:92:f8", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan0"

```
but this setting seems to get overridden at startup as another line gets added to 70-persistent-net-rules at startup, specifying the driver as:
```
# USB device 0x07d1:0x3c10 (usb)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:24:01:a6:92:f8", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan1"
```

I'd like to stop this from occurring, but I need some help here as I have no idea how to do that.

---

### Post by Nesnej Trick on 2010-02-04
:KS Solved! 

HOWTO: Go to 
[http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/ar9170](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/ar9170)
Download the one-stage ar9170usb.fw firmware and copy it to /lib/firmware
All tutorials for 9.04 referred to the one-stage version as experimental and unstable, but this needs to be ignored. The two-stage legacy version is obsolete and does not work in 9.10.

---

