---
title: "10.10 optical drive simply not working"
date: 2010-12-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Wissam24 on 2010-12-26
Hi all, first post here.

I'm running 10.10, everything else is pretty much fine. However, recently, I had had a dvd in the drive for a week or so without having watched it or done anything. I go to take it out to put one of my new Christmas prezzies in, but this dvd won't read. So I reboot, it works fine. At a point during play, it freezes and won't play, so I take the dvd out, clean it, but after putting it in, it won't load the disc at all, nor any other disc. I've tried rebooting with the dvd both in and out, but to no avail. the cd/dvd/blu-ray drive is listed in "computer" but it won't recognise any disc put into it.

I hadn't done any updates recently before this happened, nor had I installed anything. It's worked fine up until now.

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2010-12-26
If other CDs/DVDs work well, then it has to be that particular DVD. If, however, you have trouble with several (especially if it should always be CDs only or DVDs only), then it can be initial signs of a problem with the laser - in which case consider a new device, but also get a lens-cleaner CD and run that to see if it fixes things (at least for the time).

I've had problems with these optical devices in anything from 6 months upwards (they usually just about manage to meet their warranty period).

The other thing to watch for is whether the drive recognises the insertion of a CD/DVD - either by flashing a light, or making noises as it runs up to speed to read the index track.

---

### Post by Wissam24 on 2010-12-26
Hi, thanks for your reply.

I should have mentioned that yes, when I put a disc in, the light on the drive flashes and I can hear the sounds of the disc turning, leading me to believe it is a software and not a hardware problem. Furthermore, I've tried with a number of dvds, including the first one, and it won't recognise any.

I also should say it's a Dell Inspiron 1525

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2010-12-26
Thanks for posting the added info.
However, it doesn't convince me it's a software thing, as you could be getting the physical disc insertion recognition, but failure to read anything caused by a laser problem.

I feel I should add that in my professional support capacity I had, a year or so back to replace these drives in several Dell machines.

---

### Post by Wissam24 on 2010-12-26
Hmm. I will look into that, thanks

---

### Post by ibates on 2011-01-08
I am running 10.04 LTS and have a similar problem.

After everything operating perfectly for the last six months or so, all of a sudden, apparently randomly, upon inserting a CD/DVD, despite the LED on the drive blinking, nothing further happens.  The inserted disk is not read, the drive does no appear in "Places" and nothing I can do will make the thing read the disc, or even acknowledge that the drive is installed.  Except the System->Administration->Disk utility where the drive is shown as having a disk inserted.  But that is as close as I can get to having the system recognise the drive or the fact that there is a disk inserted.

The only way I can recover from this situation is a complete shut down (a restart does not clear the problem), and then I can get perhaps one or two disc reads before the whole circus starts all over again.

Although I have recently installed updates, I do not think that was the cause of the problem.

Any thoughts.  (I have two DVD RW drives in the machine and exactly the same problem exists for both drives with the same or other disks).

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by ibates on 2011-01-08
I have now determined that the difficulties I have encountered with the system not finding the CD/DVD drive/s only occurred after upgrading from Kernel 2.6.32-26-generic-pae to Kernel 2.6.32-27-generic-pae.

If I revert to booting up the older Kernel the problem disappears and the CD/DVD drives are recognised normally without any other system modification.

Hope this helps.

Moderators - please note.

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2011-01-08
Thanks for that, ibates - I'll make a note not to use that kernel version.

Shouldn't this be reported as a Ubuntu bug? Ashamed to say I cannor remember where that should be.

As an afterthought - PATA or IDE connection for the DVD drives?

---

### Post by sazawal on 2011-11-21
I am using Ubuntu 10.10 on my Vaio E  series laptop. My CD drive is not working, though I can see a CD/DVD  Drive icon on my Computer. In the System>Administration>Disk  Utility a CD/DVD device appears but it shows "No media inserted". Also  there is nothing in my BIOS options where I can change the mode to HCI  or IDE. I am posting the output of
 $ sudo lshw -C disk
*-cdrom
       description: DVD-RAM writer
       product: DVD RW AD-7700H
       vendor: Optiarc
       physical id: 1
       bus info: scsi@1:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/cdrom
       logical name: /dev/cdrw
       logical name: /dev/dvd
       logical name: /dev/dvdrw
       logical name: /dev/scd0
       logical name: /dev/sr0
       version: 1.V0
       capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r dvd-ram
       configuration: ansiversion=5 status=nodisc
 Please help !!

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-11-21
Please do not bump old threads to the top.

Closed.

---

