---
title: "9.04 Printer Sharing - (Kind Of) Broken."
date: 2009-06-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by fondle-em on 2009-06-09
My Laserjet 4L printer is attached to a computer running 9.04, which is SUPPOSED to share it to all computers on my local network.  However, it doesn't, or at least it doesn't with any reliability.  Even though in the Printer Properties the checkboxes for Enabled, Accepting Jobs and Shared are all selected, the printer isn't *actually* shared - there's an italicised message next to the checkboxes which reads...

"[I]Not published
See Server Settings[/I]"

So, fair enough, let's do that, then.  I'll just go to Settings under the Server menu in Printer Configuration, where I'll see that "Publish shared printers connected to this system" is **checked**. I'd think, then, that this means that the printer is actually shared.  I'd be wrong.  I have to uncheck that box, and then check it again.  At that point, the printer really *is* shared, and works fine.

For a little while.

I had best print quickly, because sooner or later, the "*Not published See Server Settings*" message will return under my Printer Properties menu, and my printer will, once again, no longer be shared.

This is a new "feature" in 9.04.  What, if anything, am I doing *wrong* here?  (Other than being too lazy to roll my computer back to a fully functional version of Ubuntu?)

If this would be more appropriately placed in the networking section, my apologies.

---

### Post by fondle-em on 2009-06-20
Bump.  Actually, not merely a bump, because now I can't make printer sharing work AT ALL.

---

