---
title: "8.10 ignores my quadcore CPU, uses only one core"
date: 2008-12-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by randomstuff on 2008-12-27
As the title says, I have just now discovered that only the first of my cores get used in ubuntu. Even the gnome system monitor displays only one CPU. When I run transcode, it only uses one core, regardless of which settings I use.

The only exception is the hardware-monitor app for the gnome-panel, which correctly reports my 4 cores and shows that only one of them is ever in use. And no, the usage is not distributed/switched between the cores, only the first core is ever seeing any load, according to the hardware-monitor anyway.

What has happened, and more important, how can I fix it? Is this some bios setting?


I can imagine one reason for this strange behavior, and that is that I inserted my system drive in my brothers computer over christmas and ran ubuntu on his computer. He has an AMD quad-core, while I have one from Intel. I assume that this has caused the problem, although I don't know since when the problem started. Can you give me any advice on what to do?


**[COLOR="Red"]EDIT: It turns out that I had disabled ACPI support in the BIOS. Enabling this again fixes the problem. See [this post]("http://forums.opensuse.org/archives/sf-archives/archives-hardware/340548-intel-core-2-quad-shows-only-one-core-cpuinfo.html") for more information.[/COLOR] **

---

### Post by randomstuff on 2008-12-27
hmm, booting from my live-usb stick shows the same problem.

**cat /proc/cpuinfo** shows this:

> processor	: 0
vendor_id	: GenuineIntel
cpu family	: 6
model		: 15
model name	: Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Quad CPU           @ 2.40GHz
stepping	: 7
cpu MHz		: 2399.951
cache size	: 4096 KB
physical id	: 0
siblings	: 1
core id		: 0
cpu cores	: 1
apicid		: 0
initial apicid	: 0
fdiv_bug	: no
hlt_bug		: no
f00f_bug	: no
coma_bug	: no
fpu		: yes
fpu_exception	: yes
cpuid level	: 10
wp		: yes
flags		: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe nx lm constant_tsc up arch_perfmon pebs bts pni monitor ds_cpl vmx est tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr lahf_lm
bogomips	: 4799.90
clflush size	: 64
power management:

---

