---
title: "15.04 Radeon 3450 limited to 1024x768 on 1920x1080 display"
date: 2015-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2015-04-28
Bought a dell for $60 on ebay because I had some credit from a vendor who I bought from before and had a part fail. lspci outputs ```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] RV620 LE [Radeon HD 3450]

``` and it's hooked up to my 1920x1080 monitor via vga and the only options are 1024x768 or lower.  Short of replacing the videocard (probably not a bad idea i have a spare one with the vga being broken and i don't want messy cables and vga is only port left). Any idea what's wrong?  Just a weak videocard?

---

### Post by mattharris4 on 2015-04-28
Can you tell us what processor the computer has, its approximate age and the amount of RAM in it (and if you say it is new I'd like to know what vendor sells new computers that cheap, even a good refurb is $100)?  A Radeon video card is usually what is built into an AMD processor but either this is a really old computer (more than 12-15 years old) and that is really all the processor can put out or something else is at issue here.  Even the computers I bought new in February 2005 (probably manufactured in mid 2004) could handle 1366X768 video (they were both Intel Pentium D machines from eMachines with 256MB of RAM, they are long gone now) -- and that was over ten years ago.  If I am not going in the wrong direction here the computer may not be able to handle your replacement video card anyway.

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2015-04-28
> **mattharris4 said:**
> Can you tell us what processor the computer has, its approximate age and the amount of RAM in it (and if you say it is new I'd like to know what vendor sells new computers that cheap, even a good refurb is $100)?  A Radeon video card is usually what is built into an AMD processor but either this is a really old computer (more than 12-15 years old) and that is really all the processor can put out or something else is at issue here.  Even the computers I bought new in February 2005 (probably manufactured in mid 2004) could handle 1366X768 video (they were both Intel Pentium D machines from eMachines with 256MB of RAM, they are long gone now) -- and that was over ten years ago.  If I am not going in the wrong direction here the computer may not be able to handle your replacement video card anyway.

It's an optiplex 530 with an e7400,4gb ddr2, and 250gb harddrive.  Normal price was $80 but vendor gave me $20 off because I had a psu die on my from a pc i got from him and replaced it out of pocket.  I bought it from this vendor [http://www.ebay.com/usr/izzys_pc_depot?_trksid=p2060353.m2749.l2754](http://www.ebay.com/usr/izzys_pc_depot?_trksid=p2060353.m2749.l2754)  This is the monitor I'm using [http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16824236305](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16824236305)  It's still better than the xbox one browser but i would like to get to 1080p.  I have a 5450 that i'm not sure if it works or not still (sitting in a box for months that i meant to throw away). But the only free port on monitor i have is vga and the vga part of the gpu is missing.

---

### Post by mattharris4 on 2015-04-29
I don't know how to fix the video card you have (since it is built into the processor that could mean a new processor) but I think that computer is new enough that either it runs your add-on card or one could be found that will run at a reasonable price.

I took a look at the eBay site from your supplier (Izzy's PC Depot).  It looks like he refurbishes computers and sells them cheap.  The computers I saw on the first page of his site also come with Linux Mint 17.1 which is a Linux OS that I haven't ever used but is quite popular from what I have heard about it.  I have actually bookmarked his site and will keep him in mind for a future computer purchase.  Thanks for the link.

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2015-04-29
> **mattharris4 said:**
> I don't know how to fix the video card you have (since it is built into the processor that could mean a new processor) but I think that computer is new enough that either it runs your add-on card or one could be found that will run at a reasonable price.

I took a look at the eBay site from your supplier (Izzy's PC Depot).  It looks like he refurbishes computers and sells them cheap.  The computers I saw on the first page of his site also come with Linux Mint 17.1 which is a Linux OS that I haven't ever used but is quite popular from what I have heard about it.  I have actually bookmarked his site and will keep him in mind for a future computer purchase.  Thanks for the link.

It is an addon card.   I didn't even know the computer came with a dedicated chip.  I found out the hard way when I tried to connect to the onboard vga and thought the computer was dead because the screen was black.  Then I realized there was another vga port in the pcie slot

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2015-04-29
Well able to get full resolution through xrandr but it doesn't persist through reboot.   Any ideas how to fix that?

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2015-04-30
Ok everything works fine via hdmi but not vga.  I want to use vga because the 2 hdmi inputs are occupied by xbox one and ps4.  Any easy fix?  Besides sleeping the computer instead of rebooting?  Gonna try xubuntu to see if it's any better.   Turns out my 5450 does work but it too is missing the vga connections. Is it even worth switching to the 5450 if I'm not doing anything gpu intensive?  It's literally sitting on the table doing nothing right now

---

