---
title: "64 bit 9.10 surround sound won't work"
date: 2009-12-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-12-03
to keep this question simple and short, i'm using 64 bit kubuntu 9.10 and only the standard left, right, mic, and line-in channels work.  as you can see in the picture, i do have the volume up in the rear speakers (i deliberately have lfe and center muted since i don't have those).

[ATTACH]138495[/ATTACH]

in 32 bit ubuntu 9.04, i could get surround sound to work with no problem, although back then i was using a different sound card.  windows does have support for it too.

the sound card model is labeled in the image in case if you're wondering.  it is a VIA envy24 card.  i have pulseaudio uninstalled, as it has never served me any good

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-12-04
One thing you might want to try (especially if you don't like PulseAudio): OSS4
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenSound](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenSound)
I found that OSS4 had better quality for my sound card (Envy24HT-based).

To check the obvious as far as getting sound from rear speakers, have you tried playing a video that you know is encoded for surround sound?

If you want to 'replicate' front audio to the rear speakers, I believe that is possible too.

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-12-04
thanks for the reply.  so far oss4 is working well even with surround sound.  oss doesn't work with KDE's sound settings in any way, is there a way to fix this?  i don't really care about it but its still inconvenient

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-12-04
```
osstest
```
> also, what graphical tool can i use to edit the sound channels?
```
ossxmix
```

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-12-04
haha sorry, i never knew ossxmix came with oss, i was searching for it for an hour and i was completely oblivious that it was already there.  so theres no way to get kde's sound effects to work with oss?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-12-04
> so theres no way to get kde's sound effects to work with oss?
They worked fine for me the last time I used KDE. Make sure you have your system settings correct: [http://www.opensound.com/wiki/index.php/Configuring_Applications_for_OSSv4#Phonon](http://www.opensound.com/wiki/index.php/Configuring_Applications_for_OSSv4#Phonon)

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-12-04
that didn't work, but o well, it doesn't really matter.  i guess the new problem now is vlc won't play movies in surround sound.  any idea on that?  and yes the dolby surround is on and the movie is surround sound compatible

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-12-04
Can you post:
```
ossinfo
```

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-12-05
```
Version info: OSS 4.2 (b 2002/200911060720) (0x00040100) TRIAL
Platform: Linux/x86_64 2.6.31-15-generic #50-Ubuntu SMP Tue Nov 10 14:53:52 UTC 2009 (Tornado-II)                                                                                     

Number of audio devices:        5
Number of audio engines:        9
Number of MIDI devices:         0
Number of mixer devices:        1


Device objects
 0: osscore0 OSS core services
 1: oss_envy24ht0 Generic Envy24PT motherboard audio interrupts=187117 (224607)
 2: oss_usb0 USB audio core services

MIDI devices (/dev/midi*)

Mixer devices
 0: Generic Envy24PT motherboard au (Mixer 0 of device object 1)

Audio devices
Generic Envy24PT motherboard audio front out  /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/pcm0  (device index 0)
Generic Envy24PT motherboard audio c/l out  /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/pcm1  (device index 1)
Generic Envy24PT motherboard audio side out  /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/pcm2  (device index 2)
Generic Envy24PT motherboard audio digital out  /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/spdout  (device index 3)
Generic Envy24PT motherboard audio analog in  /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/pcmin0  (device index 4)

Nodes
  /dev/dsp -> /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/pcm0
  /dev/dsp_in -> /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/pcm0
  /dev/dsp_out -> /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/pcm0
  /dev/dsp_ac3 -> /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/spdout
  /dev/dsp_mmap -> /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/pcm0
  /dev/dsp_multich -> /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/pcm0
  /dev/dsp_spdifout -> /dev/oss/oss_envy24ht0/spdout

```


I really appreciate how much effort you've put into this

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-12-05
Try this: [http://www.4front-tech.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=3481#p13814](http://www.4front-tech.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=3481#p13814)

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-12-05
unfortunately that didn't really help me at all.  it inspired me to use "/dev/dsp_multich" in vlc but apparently thats just linked to pcm0 like the rest of the stuff, so that didn't actually do anything.  i wish i knew oss better because i'm sure this is something really simple but out of my knowledge.  btw, i haven't found any sort of switch anywhere that lets me actually turn on surround sound or multichannel.

---

### Post by guckpup on 2010-03-15
Wish I had more to say than "There's a huge gap in the OSS4 material online - how *exactly* to setup oss4 to allow *USE* of surround sound."

I am at your point. I have oss4 working, I have surround playing - albeit ONLY when doing an osstest loop - and now, I cannot find anything that will close the gap, provide a step by step or even an explanation of how apps that can send surround sound should be setup to *do* it, using oss4.

My search continues, until I find an answer "you can't." or "duh, do this."

Or, I have to go back to what I am running away from pulse-frickin-audio.

Sigh.

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2010-03-15
ya i'm not touching pulseaudio.  i don't know why distros are moving to it - its terrible.  alsa is the best i've found yet - it has the most support, its not that large, it works great, it doesn't need a process to work, and it generally works with surround sound.


because i have almost no use for surround sound on my linux setup, i didn't really bother to continue with it (i just took a couple spare speakers so its not like i wasted money on a 5.1 setup).  i do believe after some updates that surround is currently working for me with alsa.  i haven't bothered to test it but kmix was showing a lot more options out of nowhere one day after alsa and phonon updated.  if you're not a kde user, that basically means i got more volume options.  i might get to testing it later some day

---

