---
title: "Ub 14.04 what's a good sound card?"
date: 2016-02-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ra7411 on 2016-02-18
I mainly want pci-e card that allows easy streaming sound recording and playback without using PulseAudio - I've had too much trouble with it.

I'm looking for a sound card that has Ub drivers that will work with ALSA and be trouble free.
Does something like that exist?

---

### Post by ra7411 on 2016-02-19
Nobody knows of a pci-e sound card that will work with ALSA in Ubuntu. Wow.

---

### Post by Rob Sayer on 2016-02-19
Maybe because pulseaudio is irrelevant to whether your sound card works?  If it's using pulseaudio it is also using alsa.  It is *always* using alsa.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-02-19
Moved to **Hardware**

---

### Post by yoshii on 2016-02-19
If you get a USB audio interface instead of a PCI sound card, just make sure that it is "USB Class Compliant" so you won't be strugging to find compatible drivers.  
USB Class Compliance means that no drivers are needed for MacOS, Windows, or Linux.

---

### Post by ra7411 on 2016-02-19
>[COLOR=#000000]Maybe because pulseaudio is irrelevant to whether your sound card works? If it's using pulseaudio it is also using alsa. It is [/COLOR]*always using alsa.<*

Maybe you don't know what you're talking about.

I was able to use Audacity for stream recording until PulseAudio failed. 
I've posted the problem in the Audacity forum, and they've told me it's the sound hardware, so I'm looking for different hardware that will work without Pulse, ok?

---

### Post by ra7411 on 2016-02-19
> **yoshi2 said:**
> If you get a USB audio interface instead of a PCI sound card, just make sure that it is "USB Class Compliant" so you won't be strugging to find compatible drivers.  
USB Class Compliance means that no drivers are needed for MacOS, Windows, or Linux.

That may be the best solution. Any specific recommendations? Besides recording stream audio, I like to use Google for phone calls which was always a hassle with Pulse, and since Pulse took a permanent dive, the phone audio doesn't work.

Thanks

---

