---
title: "9.10 Karmic Koala: Logitech Quickcam Communicate STX doesn't work"
date: 2010-01-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tokyo_pete on 2010-01-04
Hi,

I've checked around the net and the forums here and I can't find anything that specifically answers my problem. I've only recently changed from Windows XP to Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala so I'm a total newby and don't understand a lot of the lingo.

My Logitech Quickcam Communicate STX is fairly old but was working fine before I changed over to Ubuntu. When I try to test the Quickcam in Skype (Beta) Version 2.1.0.47 it doesn't do anything. I noticed on other forums that some people got a green screen. I don't get anything. The test window just stays the same with the test button still there.
Can anyone help me fix this?

When I type "lsusb" in Terminal I get the following results:

Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 004: ID 046d:08ad Logitech, Inc. QuickCam Communicate STX
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

I'm not sure if that helps or not!

Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by tokyo_pete on 2010-01-10
Can anyone help me with this?

---

### Post by halyihev on 2010-01-21
Bump...

For what it's worth, I have exactly the same problem.  Camera worked fine under Ubuntu 9.04 on the same machine, too.  But after upgrading, the camera lists in lsusb, but no application can see it.

I've done some searching around and found no answer to this yet.  The camera is currently hooked to a Windows 7 box I set up next to my primary desktop because I have to be able to participate in Adobe Connect sessions for work.  I would very much like to be able to just stick with Ubuntu though!

Suggestions?  Fixes? :confused:

---

### Post by bigchen000 on 2011-07-03
I have exact same problem.. I think

First, I have the same camera for sure. Second, when I open up Skype I do have the USB Camera.  When I choose and test it out it just comes out with a black screen.

Please guys help??..
I will keep bumping every 25 hour until I get an ANSWER!


THANK YOU GUYS!!! =DDDDDD:popcorn:

Uhh I forgot to include that I have the newest Edidtion of Ubuntu the 11.04

---

### Post by jvj on 2011-07-12
Hi!

I have the same camera on Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx and it worked perfect for a long time with Skype. Then one day it didn't. In between the succesful session and the non-succesful session I had several upgrades (kernels ++, even Skype I believe) and I haven't been able to figure out where the problem is.

JVJ

---

### Post by eric.t on 2011-09-12
I had the same problem and found this bash somewhere online but can't find it again...

~$ bash -c 'LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype'

Hope it helps!

---

### Post by adanvasco on 2011-12-05
Have you guys tried using V4L2? Video for Linux. Try using VLC and then opening Capture Device from the Media menu. See the attached image.

Hope that helps at least to see if the camera/drivers are working.

---

