---
title: "9.04 USB not working"
date: 2009-10-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by weasel fierce on 2009-10-15
All of a sudden, no USB ports work. I have 2 USB joypads, and a blackberry, and they'll show power when the machine is booting up, but once I reach Ubuntu, no dice.

This occured all of a sudden. I haven't changed anything in my install, other than what security updates have been coming down through synaptic.

Any ideas on what to do ?

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-10-15
> **weasel fierce said:**
> All of a sudden, no USB ports work. I have 2 USB joypads, and a blackberry, and they'll show power when the machine is booting up, but once I reach Ubuntu, no dice.

This occured all of a sudden. I haven't changed anything in my install, other than what security updates have been coming down through synaptic.

Any ideas on what to do ?

 I would try a live cd and see if the usb ports are working, to start with, this is a problem I have never seen, and I suspect it has so many variables that the forum wont be of much help, I hope not though.

---

### Post by weasel fierce on 2009-10-16
usb ports do work under a live cd

---

### Post by weasel fierce on 2009-10-16
I tried updating to Karmic and that didn't seem to make any difference. Weird thing is.. it seems to work in brief bursts, then will vanish again

Here's something interesting from dmesg:
After it works for a short while, it will do this:

[24931.888638] usb 2-9: USB disconnect, address 12
[24945.152039] hub 2-0:1.0: unable to enumerate USB device on port 9

---

