---
title: "9.10 video card [Big problem]"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by L0v3Rd0 on 2009-11-01
Hello 
(sorry for my bad en)
 I have installed ubuntu 9.10 
 After the installation, i want to identify graphics card
I went to the box "hardware" choose "active" and has started the download and installation
Then I restart the computer
Then surprised  !! ,What happened ,Oh my God, it's disaster !!](*,)
Has become the login screen black 
 All screen is black !!!!!! 
I did not know what steps must be taken 
 So I did delete and re-distribution ubuntu !!!!!!!!!!
I went to the site of nvidia and download my driver
After the installation the same problem  :---)

What is the solution 
 Or are we will not enjoy the new version

thanks in advance

---

### Post by cubbyboy57 on 2009-11-01
I am pretty new to linux, but if you have a startup menu do the recovery mode selection and select repair broken packages.  It has worked for me on another issue (sorry I never had issue with video before).

---

### Post by L0v3Rd0 on 2009-11-01
> **cubbyboy57 said:**
> I am pretty new to linux, but if you have a startup menu do the recovery mode selection and select repair broken packages.  It has worked for me on another issue (sorry I never had issue with video before).

Thank you for your reply
The problem does not  broken packages
In my personal opinion problem it is in the settings of nvidia..Or something like that

---

### Post by L0v3Rd0 on 2009-11-02
up è__

---

### Post by L0v3Rd0 on 2009-11-16
2 Weeks and not help [-X

---

### Post by DJJoeJoe on 2009-11-16
I'm getting a similar issue, basically Ubuntu is only showing what looks like the terminal and I can't get back to the 'desktop' etc. Trying to repair broken packages doesn't help, as no packages are really broken from what I believe. Is there a way to get around this at least temporarily? If it truly is a video driver issue of sorts there has to at least be a command to get back to a default setup for xconfig or whatever has changed that causes the desktop to not load etc.


Please help, or if possible point to a solution from the past. I don't want to re-install ubuntu for the 6th time because of this issue :(

---

