---
title: "CPU usage in 3d too high"
date: 2008-06-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by barisurum on 2008-06-24
[COLOR="Sienna"]When I use a 3d app. (like celestia) my cpu usage as shown on system monitor goes up to %50 and I think its too high, if my ati card does all the 3d work why is this? Also my glxgears output is so low. My conf is as follows:[/COLOR]

   AMD Athlon x2 2.8 ghz
   4gb corsair ram 800 mhz
   Ati x1650 with 128mb gddr3
   UbuntuStudio 8.04

   [COLOR="Sienna"]direct rendering is available according to glxinfo[/COLOR]

   [COLOR="DarkOliveGreen"]celestia works fluently but could run faster. (works faster in windows)[/COLOR]

   [COLOR="DarkGreen"]I use the drivers from ati's website with kernel module, all installed manually without problems.[/COLOR]

   [COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]glxgears output approx: 305 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.855 FPS[/COLOR]

   [COLOR="DarkSlateGray"]compiz wont work, it was working before I installed the drivers from ati's website.[/COLOR]

   xorg.conf:

   > 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "tr"
	Option	    "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


   [COLOR="Red"]so what's the problem?[/COLOR]

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-06-24
It's very common for 3D apps to completely peg a CPU core.  The graphics card is doing graphics acceleration but, the CPU still has to compute a lot of things that the graphics card isn't capable of computing.

As for your glxgears numbers, that just means that you have set sync to vblank on.  If you are using compiz, you can turn it off with:

```

sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager

```

Then go to System->Preferences->Advanced Desktop Effects->General Options->Display Settings and uncheck Sync To VBlank.  If you aren't using compiz then you've somehow set your card to vsync opengl apps.  I'm not sure how to change that on ATI cards.

---

### Post by barisurum on 2008-06-24
> Then go to System->Preferences->Advanced Desktop Effects->General Options->Display Settings and uncheck Sync To VBlank. If you aren't using compiz then you've somehow set your card to vsync opengl apps. I'm not sure how to change that on ATI cards.

The VBlank was not selected when I looked at it and also compiz doesnt work. glxinfo says direct rendering yes, catalyst software says the opengl vendor is ati (not mesa), but something is worth noting: 

the available ports in Advanced Desktop Effects->General Options->Display Settings shows 640x768 as available output!! I have an 1440<900 19" lcd...

Note I manually removed libgl-mesa-dri package, glx package remains

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-06-24
> **barisurum said:**
> 
the available ports in Advanced Desktop Effects->General Options->Display Settings shows 640x768 as available output!! I have an 1440<900 19" lcd...


That's not a problem if the auto-detect settings are enabled.  It still seems like something is setting sync to vblank to me.  An FPS of 60 in something as simple as glxgears is simply not possible without sync to vblank on.

---

### Post by barisurum on 2008-06-24
I think glxgears shows the output of mesa and not my graphics card or driver, torcs or other 3d games run smoothly faster than its possible with 60 fps

---

