---
title: "External USB Drive Not Recognized - Unable to Mount"
date: 2009-04-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by KX6G on 2009-04-30
Help! Help! Help!

I hate to say it, but "I am lost"! 

I have a SimpleTech 750g external usb hard drive.  I have turned it on after connecting to the usb port...I have rebooted several times, and no matter what...It will not mount!   16g flash thumb drive behaves perfectly.

when the thumb drive and the external hd is connected, i can see the following:
===================================================
$ mount
/dev/sda1 on / type ext3 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro)
tmpfs on /lib/init/rw type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
tmpfs on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=620)
fusectl on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw,mode=755)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/wallace/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=wallace)
/dev/sdb1 on /media/CORSAIR type vfat (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=hal,shortname=mixed,uid=1000,utf8,umask=077,flush)

also

$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=62fb9a8d-ed6b-40b9-9d18-33139af16435 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=9c5d1577-5782-474d-a1bf-bf0d91d8236c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
======================================================

btw, I did connect this external drive to a winxp box, and it works fine.  I even went so far as to shut the xp box down before removing the external drive to avoid some of the issues mentioned on this forum.

This failure to recognize is the one last thing i need to resolve.  I am almost completely in the ubuntu camp, and don't miss winxp much, but I sure would like to get this drive mounted, as it has ALL my Important stuff.  

My OS = ubuntu v9.04

Thanks from a newbee...

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-04-30
Make sure the drive is on and plugged in, post the outputs of these two commands.

```
dmesg | tail
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by KX6G on 2009-04-30
ok, ok,...i entered "dmesg" at the command line...in the resultant info, there were many references to some usb ports not responding.  It also suggested the the usb cable could be damaged...well...I dug out a spare and replaced the one i was using [btw...the bad one was new, in a sealed bag]...turned on the drive...and

VIOLA! (what ever that means)  my new external drive was working perfectly.  Still a little skeptical, I rebooted the box and it was recognized staight away....

thanks to taurus

Goodbye to and rest in piece Microsoft ....

---

