---
title: "Need to change serial number of ext4 drive"
date: 2016-06-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by seanbw2 on 2016-06-14
I have been unable to run "snapraid sync" because the software complain of two drives being on the same device. Turns out that snapraid is complaining about these two hard disks have the same serial id of 0000000. I made some changes to fstab using gnome-disks and the side effect is that all the disks have the same serial number of zeros. 
Windows have many programs to change this serial number because it is not the hard drive one but a software assigned one.
I saw on this page: [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/changing-disk-volume-id-773790/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/changing-disk-volume-id-773790/) how to change it but the disks have to be mbr. all mine are gpt so mbr is out. In any case I am not an expert on linux and trying something as fundamental as this for a noob is dangerous.
I am asking people here if they know a way of changing this number. If I use gparted to reformat the disk it will presumably change the number but both disk have data on them now so I am trying hard to avoid that option.
Does anybody know how I can change this using Linux commands? I don't think I want to test the lilo approach unless someone has used it with gpt drives successfully.
So can anyone help please?

---

### Post by yoshii on 2016-06-14
I don't know much about this at all.  If you want to change the UUID, you can use gParted freeware (linux) for that though. The UUID's are the long hex codes that are in /etc/fstab for each partition, including the SWAP.  In gParted, you can manually change just the UUID to a random new one.  Just be sure to edit your fstab to match it by copying and pasting the new UUID.  I haven't used GPT yet, so I don't know how that part works.  Also, Windows partitions have a different format, for what it's worth.  But check it out.

---

### Post by seanbw2 on 2016-06-16
thanks. Its not UUID its the serial number assigned by the application that formats the drive. In this case, if I had used GParted, it would not have created this problem but using gnome-disks seemed to result in all the disks having the same serial number of zeros.
Solution of course is to move the data elsewhere and reformat the drives but Gparted has this annoying and timewasting option of always going through and checking all the devices after each activity and with 14 drives, that could take a long time. It's why I used gnome-disk in the first place.
Grrr....

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2016-06-16
Have you run: sudo blkid

---

### Post by seanbw2 on 2016-06-20
Yes. It only identifies the drives and its data. I need to change the volume id which I believe is generated by the application used to format the drive. I used gnome disks which seemed to just apply zeros as the volume id or serial number. Unfortunately snapraid has a problem with having two disks with the same volume id and although this is a known issue, the author has not thought of using UUID instead of volume serial number as the identifier.

---

### Post by seanbw2 on 2016-06-22
can anyone help please!
Without resolving this, I am pretty much stuck

---

