---
title: "Gtx 560"
date: 2011-12-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by .mouse on 2011-12-30
I've recently gotten a GTX 560 and it seems every time I install a new kernel or maybe just upgrade it, ubuntu can only run in low graphics mode and I have to reinstall the driver.  And I got the driver straight from nvidia's website which means it's a .run binary that also has to run at shell login.  And for some reason my widescreen lcd monitor isn't very shell login friendly when the driver is missing which means I also have to break out a backup crt monitor until it finishes installing then swap them again.  As you can imagine this gets old very fast so I'm looking for a solution to either the driver issue or just the widescreen shell login issue or both.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

I'm running ubuntu 10.04 64 bit.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-01-02
Sorry, use ATI/AMD cards and they now offer a solution for installing the restricted drivers using the Repos that does NOT require reinstalling them manually every time the kernel updates.

Don't know if such an option is available for NVidia cards.

You should check in the Multimedia and Video section.

---

### Post by .mouse on 2012-01-02
I went on the #ubuntu irc and someone told me this can be solved by purging the nvidia-current package then adding the "ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates" ppa and reinstalling nvidia-current from the new repo.  I'm a little cautious about taking advice from #ubuntu since I've seen trolls on there give "advice" like "sudo chmod -R 777 /" and the classic "sudo rm -rf /"  Obviously those commands should not be used but it still makes it difficult to tell what's trustworthy and what's not.  Can anyone verify this method?

---

### Post by .mouse on 2012-01-08
Can someone please help with this?  If this is bad advice I'd like to know now instead of finding out later after I've spent a day or two on a liveCD sorting through logs to find why every monitor is just a black screen.

---

### Post by MoreOrLess on 2012-01-08
The advice is fine. x-swat offers updated nvidia drivers in packaged form and is a reputable ppa.

Just for information, your driver breaks because you need to use dkms to install it so it automatically rebuilds the nvidia kernel module when you upgrade kernels. Using the x-swat ppa does this for you.

---

### Post by .mouse on 2012-01-09
> **MoreOrLess said:**
> The advice is fine. x-swat offers updated nvidia drivers in packaged form and is a reputable ppa.

Just for information, your driver breaks because you need to use dkms to install it so it automatically rebuilds the nvidia kernel module when you upgrade kernels. Using the x-swat ppa does this for you.

Thank you very much.  It looks like everything is working without any problems so far.

Also I haven't done any work with dkms before.  I'll have to read up on it.

---

