---
title: "14.04 Mouse click problems"
date: 2015-04-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by David Robinson on 2015-04-15
Having installed 14.04 on an Acer nettop, I can't get the mouse to work properly. First, clicking on the Unity launcher requires several attempts before the app launches. On the failed clicks, the app button may move slightly before returning to its position.

Second, if I select the app menu to be at the top of the app window, the menu does not work although it may flash briefly when clicked. If I select the menu to be at the top of the screen, it works fine.

I have tried using a different mouse (wired versus wireless) and/or a different PC. No joy. The only thing that will work is using the touchpad on my laptop, so the fault seems to be USB related.

Problems only relate to left click - right click functions work as expected.

Needless to say, all the hardware works perfectly on Ubuntu 10.04 and under Windows.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2015-04-15
> **David Robinson said:**
> Having installed 14.04 on an Acer nettop, I can't get the mouse to work properly. First, clicking on the Unity launcher requires several attempts before the app launches. On the failed clicks, the app button may move slightly before returning to its position.

This means you're clicking and moving, albeit slightly. You may need to adjust your mouse's sensitivity (speed, resolution,...). And you may or may not need proprietary graphics drivers for better performance.

Please post the specs including graphics card/chipset.

---

### Post by David Robinson on 2015-04-16
Thanks for your reply. The graphics on the Acer are 'Intel Sandybridge Mobile'. Via System Settings, the only mouse adjustments available are Double Click slow/fast and Pointer speed slow/fast.

The other PCs I have tried (live installation only) are an Acer with AMD Graphics and an HP laptop with Nvidia GEForce Go 7600.

---

