---
title: "HOWTO: Synaptics Touchpad on MSI PX211/PX210"
date: 2008-12-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ariehorst on 2008-12-18
Hello all,

For the ones that installed ubuntu on an MSI PX211 or PX210 and didn't get a working touchpad out-of-the-box like me, here is how i solved it.
It is just a matter of getting your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file right.

Here is my xorg.conf file:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Keyboard0"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Mouse0"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver       "synaptics"
	Identifier   "TouchPad0"
	Option       "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option       "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
	Option       "InputFashion" "Mouse"
	Option       "Name" "Synaptics;Touchpad"
	Option       "Protocol" "explorerps/2"
	Option       "SHMConfig" "on"
	Option       "Vendor" "Sysp"
	Option	"SHMConfig"	"on"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  	screen 		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice    	"Mouse0" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    	"TouchPad0" "CorePointer"
	InputDevice    	"Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "synaptics"
EndSection
```

the "SHMConfig"	"on" option is so you can instal gsynaptics to change other settings or to disable your touchpad if you don't like it.
I don't know if it's really a touchpad from Synaptics in the laptop, but as in Vista, the synaptics driver works.
I've only tested this on a PX211 in ubuntu hardy 8.04, but i imagine it works on PX210 and other ubuntu versions as well.

BTW: If some has a solution to the ACPI/powernowd problem, please let me know!

also, follow this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=966185&page=6]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=966185&page=6") post reply by Scarf to get wireless working.

---

### Post by randomas on 2008-12-18
I'm interested in getting an MSI PX210 notebook myself, could you possibly give me a rundown of what works and what doesn't, or link to any form of linux documentation on this laptop, because so far I haven't found any ...

BTW I'm running an MSI Megabook M635 and loving it, I only wish MSI would move the air vent to the left or back rather than the right ...

TIA

---

### Post by ariehorst on 2008-12-18
What does work on my PX211:
The hybrid graphics card using xorg-driver-fglrx (don't use the ati catalyst driver).
Wireless
TouchPad
Ethernet (out-of-the-box)
Sound (out-of-the-box)

The only thing that does not work with me now is speedstepping as powernowd needs the acpi to control the voltage and freq of the processor, but acpi isn't working for the moment in ubuntu with this laptop. In order to install ubuntu i had to install with the option acpi=off (and booting of course also).
Also, i'm using Ubuntu 8.04 as i couldn't get 8.10 to install. For some reason with this release X11 isn't working with the graphics card of the laptop. Maybe it struggles with the fact that it kind off has two graphics cards, so you may not have this problem with a PX210, but you would have to try that.

Basically what it comes down to is that i got ubuntu working such that it's usable.

As for the air fan: unfortunately it's still on the right however, they have now placed it almost completely at the back, where with the MSI S270 it was in the middle. So for me some improvement.

I have the laptop for a week now, and my experience so far is great. I really love it. I used to have a S270 before i bought this one, and i really loved the S270, but they really out-done them selfs with the PX211.
I also saw on the MSI site that XP drivers are becoming available for some hardware of the laptop.

Indeed as you says, there is sooo little information yet on this laptop. MSI is also really slow with releasing it in countries. I bought my PX211 in germany as MSI says it would take some undefined time to be released in the Netherlands. I've ordered an US keyboard from MSI-NL that i'm gona replace with the german keyboard that's in there right now. It should work, but i give a post on how that turned out.

Good Luck!

---

### Post by randomas on 2008-12-22
Have you tried the noapic nolapic and possibly irqpoll options at boot insead acpi=off, it's what it takes mine to boot usually and at least you get acpi going.

Thanks for the info, the PX211 seems to be the one to go for, now that they seem to have sorted out Hybrid graphics technology ... only thing now is finding one of these things ...

---

### Post by ariehorst on 2009-01-02
I have tried those acpi options, but without any positive effect.

Today (finaly) my new US keyboard was delivered, and it works perfectly. For a US keyboard the model number is: S1N-1UUS231-C54.
Changing the keyboard is remarkably easy: just remove the 4 small metal covers above the keyboard and you can flip the keyboard out.

---

### Post by ariehorst on 2009-01-11
btw. CentOS has no problems at all with any of the hardware. The touchpad works right out-of-the-box and the steps to get wifi to work are nearly identical as for ubuntu. And more important: CentOS gets the acpi of the motherboard, meaning CPU freq scaling works!

---

