---
title: "[SOLVED] Nvidia 9 series drivers?"
date: 2008-06-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Kain000 on 2008-06-05
Hey i'm wondering if anyone has found a driver for the 9 series cards from Nvidia, specifically the 9600 gt. I searched arround without luck.  If not a driver than perhaps some sort of workarround?  Im dieing to customize the effects with that card instead of my laptop, but cannot even enable them.
anything would help
thanks guys
-sean

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-05
You can get them here:

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.14.05.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.14.05.html)

---

### Post by Kain000 on 2008-06-05
alright thanks, 
Im trying to install the driver but I need to exit the x window system to do so.   I think that means that I will need to change the run level correct?  The install tips from Nvidia say i can do so in run level 3 so in a terminal I type sudo init 3 to change the level.  It also points me to a file where I must change the defult runlevel, but i cannot find the file "/etc/inittab" when i search for it.

so when i do find that file, i have to 
1 change the defult runlevel value to somthing other than 5 so x window wont start on boot, 
2 reboot into the newly selected runlevel (3)
3 run the Nvidia install file 
4 reboot again for the driver to take effect, and then change the defult runlevel back to 5, reboot and im good?

do I have to blacklist any native drivers or will the Installer do that for me?

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-06
Heres how I do all my nvidia installs in ubuntu:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6)

---

### Post by Kain000 on 2008-06-08
awesome now I've got a driver!  thanks for the help man, you rock!

---

### Post by The Cosmic Hobo on 2008-06-08
Wow. I think I'm going to take a hardcopy of that, as I've just decided to use one of those cards in my new-build box. Thanks for reposting it!

---

### Post by Aryding on 2008-06-08
Thank you so much for the installation guide!  You don't know how frustrated I got when I upgraded to a 9800gtx.

---

### Post by Kain000 on 2008-06-10
yeah i vote sticky for that life saver.

---

### Post by frlgrb on 2008-06-13
Hi - I did everything as you said and when I restarted GDM I lost video right away. All of your instruction set worked as predicted and I was comfortable with results but... it just wont start Gnome. I'm installing on an ASUS P5 with Nvidia 8000 series card and Core2 duo. I pulled down the installer from Nvids website that matched my hardware set. I think maybe if I can figure out how I can set my screen resolution from the cmd line I can recover and assess my position. Any ideas? please email me at [email]hardinger@brandonrha.mb.ca[/email]

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-06-14
frlgb I'm not at home right now, but when I get back I'll shoot you a pm here in forums, and we'll see what we can do for you. Fathers Day is tomorrow, so earliest I'd likely be available is tomorrow evening.

GL

---

### Post by Aryding on 2008-06-15
I'm now having problems as well.  It seems that after a couple of restarts my visual effects does not want to turn on.  Here's the output of my xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Mon May 19 00:29:52 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by ROY.G.BIV on 2009-07-08
> **starcannon said:**
> Heres how I do all my nvidia installs in ubuntu:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6)

Didn't work. Upon shutting down gdm, I couldn't get any other commands to work, it just moved down one line. Also the code to run the nvidia driver did not work either.

Instructions that work, please?

---

