---
title: "TwinView Forces Screen Overlap"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Phasmus on 2010-05-04
I have a 2560x1600 primary monitor and a 1600x1200 secondary on an Nvidia Quadro FX 3450/4000.  Using the Nvidia settings tool, if I put them side-by-side it complains that the metamode is invalid and if I save and use those settings anyway X reverts to the next metamode down (using only the main monitor at a poor resolution).  I can use my secondary monitor next to the larger at a lower resolution or I can overlap them a little, or I can put them top-to-bottom instead of side-to-side at full resolution.  All of these solutions are horrible.

Is there some kind of 'maximum screen width' barrier I'm hitting here?  How can I get Compositing + two monitors next to each other as extended desktops at full resolution?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Phasmus on 2010-05-05
Ah, this might be handy... here is my xorg.conf file so you can see what I'm working with.  The first metamode should have DPF-1 as 1600x1200... but that fails and defaults to the next metamode down.

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Fri Apr  9 11:51:21 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL 3007WFP"
    HorizSync       49.3 - 98.5
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Quadro FX 3450/4000 SDI"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 2560x1600 +0+0, DFP-1: 1400x1050 +2560+550; DFP-0: 800x600 +0+0, DFP-1: NULL; DFP-0: 640x480 +0+0, DFP-1: NULL"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Phasmus on 2010-05-06
It's really frustrating because, previously, I was using Xinerama which let me rotate my smaller monitor so it extended the whole desktop evenly (1600 tall across the board).  That was very nice, but I found the lack of compositing too slow and ugly when I upgraded to 10.04.  So I had to go to all the trouble of physically rotating my monitor and re-tweaking my X configuration, only to discover that twinview had this pain of an issue waiting for me.  I'm considering switching back to Xinerama, except my desktop was so painfully slow with that configuration.  I feel like I'm in a no-win situation here.

---

### Post by Kokopelli on 2010-05-06
A google for the maximum resolution of your card shows it to be 3840 x 2400.  Am I missing something?

Additionally, I went to newegg and checked the maximum resolution on both Nvidia Quadro FX 3450 and 4000 cards and the max resolution is 3840 x 2400 in all cases there as well.  You are trying to do 4160x1600, which is too wide.

---

### Post by eXmifrator on 2010-05-07
A question u guys might know the answer to... can i have a nvidia Gforce card for processing and then a secondary card just for video output on the same system?

---

### Post by Phasmus on 2010-05-07
Blood in a bucket!  Kokopelli, you are of course correct.  It hadn't occurred to me there would *actually* be a hard resolution limit set somewhere.

I guess now my mission now is trying to find a way to make Xinerama less awful...

eXmifrator: Do you mean a card for processing like with CUDA or OpenCL?  I believe the answer is yes.  But I don't know exactly how to configure a system to dedicate a GPU to processing.  I think any card is be considered 'available' to those systems as long as X isn't set up to use it.  I believe hey can actually share a card with X, but their usage is throttled.

---

### Post by Phasmus on 2010-05-07
The answer: Nouveau. NVIDIA's twin-view can't cut the mustard and Xinerama is as slow and ugly as a naked mole-rat in a bucket of molasses.  But switching to the free Nouveau driver, even though there's no compositing, is smooth and fast.  Plus the built-in multi-monitor configurator is a thing of beauty.  Case closed!

---

### Post by eXmifrator on 2010-05-10
My idea is to set up up a system with a card for cuda processing and then have another for multi video output to connect to about 3 projectors.

I thinking about getting a Nvidia GTX 470 for the cuda and a Nvidia quadro nvs 420 for output. My fear is that ill have to switch to windows to do what i want.

Thanks.

---

### Post by captwiggum on 2010-05-11
I had the same issue with Nvidia TwinView, my graphic card, and two large side-by-side monitors.
The combined horizontal resolution of the two monitors exceeded the cards physical limits.

The solution:

Arrange the monitor orientation in twinview for second mintor to "below" primary, rather than "right" of primary. In other words, instead of left & right, I made them above & below. The combined _vertical_ resolution was within the card limits.

---

