---
title: "9.10 refuses to install properly on a brand new hard drive!!!"
date: 2010-04-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by christlikemike on 2010-04-14
i'm kinda new to linux so i'm open to any suggestions.  i previously had 8.04 installed on a old tablet PC and it worked fine.  then, ubuntu told me that my hard drive was failing (it was making weird noises) so i did a fresh install of version 9.  i still got the "hard drive is dying message" so i just decided to buy a new hard drive -- i did so, did a fresh install of 9.10 and got all these weird messages about GRUB not loading, error 15...all this crap that i didn't understand.  suddenly i had not viable OS whatsoever.  i tried everything!  i finally figured out that if i install 8.04 then upgrade to version 9 everything works but i can't do a fresh install of anything above 8.04.  i think it has something to do with the ext3/ext4 business.  can anyone shed light on why i can't install version 9+ or even 10 on my brand new hard drive???  it sucks that i have to do all these incremental upgrades everytime i want to move past 8.04.  does this happen with every new hard drive and version 9+????
 
help!   :confused:
 
thanks!

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-04-15
Just some friendly advice ...

I too have an old tablet PC, and it works just fine under 8.04.  However, I have booted every Ubuntu LiveCD since then and NOT A SINGLE ONE has detected the bezel keys -- not AT ALL!  I have Googled extensively on this and followed several forum threads -- all with no success.

I use my tablet mostly in tablet mode, so the loss of function of the bezel keys is a major setback.

So, my advice would be (apart from the not able to install problem) that before you jump into a newer version, boot from the LiveCD and see what works, and what doesn't.

BTW, my tablet is a Fujitsu Lifebook T4020.  If yours is a Thinkpad or some other model, it just might work fine.

---

### Post by PhilMize on 2010-04-15
Supposedly Lucid will have "touch functionality" better integrated into the OS.

[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-xorg-multitouch](https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-lucid-xorg-multitouch)

Dunno if you guy's saw my recent [post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1454493") about running 9.10 on a old gateway tablet. You can also open up synaptic and do a quick search for tablet and you'll find a Wacom driver. It helps me calibrate my tablet a bit.

Here's a thread on other people with tablets and ubuntu. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=870640](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=870640)

To answer OP's problem. I suggest trying a live disc and opening gparted to format your shiny new drive to ext4. Your partition table might be all messed up. Just wipe it clean and try again. Ubuntu 8.10+ does a great job with the install process. Just click "use entire disk(guided mode)" when installing.

Open terminal, type: "Sudo gparted"

Make sure you have the disk you want to format selected then go Device > Create Partition Table, then it'l say it will erase everything on disk. Proceed. And format it to Ext4.

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-04-15
If you search for error 15 there is a lot of advice.  This thread solved the problem for someone [http://stringofthoughts.wordpress.com/2009/05/25/grub-error-15-debianubuntu/](http://stringofthoughts.wordpress.com/2009/05/25/grub-error-15-debianubuntu/)
What I'd try with a new disc would be gparted running from the live cd and take a good look at it.  See what if any file system is on it, if nothing whatever exists yet then make it gparted's default MSdos.  After that format it.  What format is not crucial as your automatic install will change things anyway, exe2 or 3 should be fine.  The main reason for the format is to get at the flags so that you can make sure that the "bootable" flag is set.  Once that is done the auto install should go smoothly.  If not search around for "update grub", there is plenty of info out there on that.  
I was not fond of 9.10 ( using 9.04 instead ) as newer file extensions were not readable by the older ones and grub legacy and grub 2 differ.  This led to complexities for me and unless you want to spend a while in geek mode tweeking your system I'd recommend sticking with 8.04.4lts ,which has another years support still to go, and only upgradeing to 10.04lts  at the last squeek.  After a year 10.04 should have had most of its bugs cleared and the commercial types will have caught up ( especially hardware driver companies like nvidia).

---

