---
title: "12.04 nvidia graphics driver"
date: 2012-05-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by noobster5000 on 2012-05-02
which driver should i install? when i open additional drivers, there are two of them to choose from.

nvidia accelerated graphics driver(version current)[recommended]
nvidia accelerated graphics driver(post-release updates)(version current-updates)

thanks!

---

### Post by kc1di on 2012-05-02
> **noobster5000 said:**
> which driver should i install? when i open additional drivers, there are two of them to choose from.

nvidia accelerated graphics driver(version current)[recommended]
nvidia accelerated graphics driver(post-release updates)(version current-updates)

thanks!
you may want to hold off.  I'm assuming your using 12.04.  there is a bug that affects Compiz and 3d graphics with Nvidia propitiatory drivers. 

If the open source drivers are working I would wait awhile before installing Nvidia Drivers. 

But when you do install the recommended one

---

### Post by pawhtiobo on 2012-05-02
Hi,

You could also install the last Nvidia driver from this PPA:

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

The lastest version is 295.40, the other drivers of the Ubuntu repo are older...

See ya...

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-05-02
> **noobster5000 said:**
> which driver should i install? when i open additional drivers, there are two of them to choose from.

Which nvidia card do you have?

> **kc1di said:**
> you may want to hold off.  I'm assuming your using 12.04.  there is a bug that affects Compiz and 3d graphics with Nvidia propitiatory drivers. 

This only affects certain nvidia GPUs. I have the nvidia-current driver working just fine with two different nvidia graphics cards in 12.04.

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2012-05-02
The same here no problems with my nvidia card.

---

### Post by kc1di on 2012-05-03
> **pawhtiobo said:**
> Hi,

You could also install the last Nvidia driver from this PPA:

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

The lastest version is 295.40, the other drivers of the Ubuntu repo are older...

See ya...

Here is a snippet from the Nivida forum. tells which cards are affected mine is one and the 295.40 driver does not solve the problem.  

"We have been made aware of an interaction problem between the fix contained in the newest release any any card with a chip older than G80, inclusive. This includes the full GeForce 6 and 7 series as well as GeForce 8800GTX and first-gen 8800GTS. We are actively working on resolving this issue and will provide an update as soon as possible.

The symptoms can include graphical corruption, performance issues, crashes and temporary hangs.

The release should be perfectly safe to use with more recent cards than that; I'll update this thread ASAP."

Thanks,
- Pierre-Loup

---

### Post by noobster5000 on 2012-05-06
i have the 8600gt 256mb ddr3.

---

### Post by nightwarrior51 on 2012-05-06
Yeah, I have a 560m and I hate that I can't even use Unity3D

---

### Post by meandog on 2012-05-08
+1 
8600gt

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2012-05-08
> **nightwarrior51 said:**
> Yeah, I have a 560m and I hate that I can't even use Unity3D
That's a completely different issue (optimus/hybrid graphics).

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2012-05-09
Quoting from another thread:

> **ubuntu27 said:**
> Currently, the [nVidia regression bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/982485") has been fixed for Ubuntu Quantal Quetzal. The bug fix for Ubuntu Precise Pangolin is in [precise-proposed]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/EnableProposed"). So, we will appreciate if the affected users could test it and tell us about their experience.

Good luck everyone!
**Fingers Crossed**


We can provide feedback by posting a comment on [bug#982485]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/982485")

---

### Post by momist on 2012-05-10
I've just today upgraded to an nvidia 6200 256MB card, to try to run Unity 3D.  My machine is quicker than it was with the old unsupported geforce 4 nvidia card, but I still have problems.  I've tried both the "recommended" and the "version current-updates" but find that scrolling web pages causes corruption and overlapping of panels or frames.  This is slightly less of a problem with the version current-updates, since it seems to correct itself a second or two after the overlap occurs, whereas with the recommended driver the overlap would stick around, and even scroll up and down with the rest of the page.

So far no crashes or freezes, but I've only been using it an hour or so.

---

### Post by tentimes on 2012-05-19
> **pawhtiobo said:**
> Hi,

You could also install the last Nvidia driver from this PPA:

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

The lastest version is 295.40, the other drivers of the Ubuntu repo are older...

See ya...

BIG thanks! This solved my issue straight away. I have a Geforce 7900GS in my Dell XPS M1710 and the issue was causing screen corruption after suspend. Now fixed! :)

---

### Post by rokky on 2012-05-19
What a labyrinth of bugs/patches/configurations/results!   Can anyone tell me offhand if my situation is involved in this mess?  Here is what I have as an alternate boot setup (from Mint 9/Ubuntu 10.04):

Dell D800 Latitude notebook, 2.1 GHz Pentium M (so I cannot run any of the versions like the base 12.04 or KDE with their PAE requirement - good grief! Isn't that what 64-bit mode is for?), 2GB RAM, with a discrete GeForce4 Ti 4200 (32MB VRAM I think), 1920x1200 UXGA screen, Lubuntu 12.04.  

What I have been seeing since initial installation is the mouse cursor and window widgets/title bar text are all badly "out of focus", although all other parts of the windows are quite crisp and clear.

I tried installing whichever Nvidia driver version from Synaptic that seemed appropriate to that Nvidia card, not sure just which since I am booted to Mint 9 right now - it is looking fine in Gnome 2 with nvidia-96 package installed, so I probably installed the 12.04 equivalent.  Nouveau is also installed - would that be a conflict?  I am not sure how to specify which to use since there is no xorg.conf file to tweak.  Here is what I find in the Xorg.0.log:

[INDENT]58.197] (II) Module dri2: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    58.197] 	compiled for 1.11.3, module version = 1.2.0
[    58.197] 	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 6.0
[    58.197] (II) Loading extension DRI2
[    58.197] (==) Matched nvidia as autoconfigured driver 0
[    58.197] (==) Matched nouveau as autoconfigured driver 1
[    58.197] (==) Matched nv as autoconfigured driver 2
[    58.197] (==) Matched vesa as autoconfigured driver 3
[    58.197] (==) Matched fbdev as autoconfigured driver 4
[    58.197] (==) Assigned the driver to the xf86ConfigLayout
[    58.197] (II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
[    58.213] (WW) Warning, couldn't open module nvidia
[    58.213] (II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
[    58.213] (II) Unloading nvidia
[    58.213] (EE) Failed to load module "nvidia" (module does not exist, 0)
[    58.213] (II) LoadModule: "nouveau"
[    58.214] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/nouveau_drv.so
[    58.237] (II) Module nouveau: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    58.237] 	compiled for 1.11.3, module version = 0.0.16
[    58.237] 	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    58.237] 	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 11.0
[    58.238] (II) LoadModule: "nv"
[    58.240] (WW) Warning, couldn't open module nv
[    58.240] (II) UnloadModule: "nv"
[    58.240] (II) Unloading nv
[    58.240] (EE) Failed to load module "nv" (module does not exist, 0)
[    58.240] (II) LoadModule: "vesa"
[    58.241] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/vesa_drv.so
[    58.253] (II) Module vesa: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    58.253] 	compiled for 1.11.3, module version = 2.3.0
[    58.253] 	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    58.253] 	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 11.0
[    58.253] (II) LoadModule: "fbdev"
[    58.254] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/fbdev_drv.so
[    58.267] (II) Module fbdev: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    58.267] 	compiled for 1.11.3, module version = 0.4.2
[    58.267] 	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 11.0
[    58.267] (==) Matched nvidia as autoconfigured driver 0
[    58.267] (==) Matched nouveau as autoconfigured driver 1
[    58.267] (==) Matched nv as autoconfigured driver 2
[    58.267] (==) Matched vesa as autoconfigured driver 3
[    58.267] (==) Matched fbdev as autoconfigured driver 4
[    58.267] (==) Assigned the driver to the xf86ConfigLayout
[    58.267] (II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
[    58.269] (WW) Warning, couldn't open module nvidia
[    58.269] (II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
[    58.269] (II) Unloading nvidia
[    58.269] (EE) Failed to load module "nvidia" (module does not exist, 0)
[    58.269] (II) LoadModule: "nouveau"
[    58.270] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/nouveau_drv.so
[    58.270] (II) Module nouveau: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    58.270] 	compiled for 1.11.3, module version = 0.0.16
[    58.270] 	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    58.270] 	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 11.0
[    58.270] (II) UnloadModule: "nouveau"
[    58.270] (II) Unloading nouveau
[    58.270] (II) Failed to load module "nouveau" (already loaded, 0)
[    58.270] (II) LoadModule: "nv"
[    58.272] (WW) Warning, couldn't open module nv
[    58.272] (II) UnloadModule: "nv"
[    58.272] (II) Unloading nv
[    58.272] (EE) Failed to load module "nv" (module does not exist, 0)
[    58.272] (II) LoadModule: "vesa"
[    58.273] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/vesa_drv.so
[    58.273] (II) Module vesa: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    58.273] 	compiled for 1.11.3, module version = 2.3.0
[    58.274] 	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    58.274] 	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 11.0
[    58.274] (II) UnloadModule: "vesa"
[    58.274] (II) Unloading vesa
[    58.274] (II) Failed to load module "vesa" (already loaded, 0)
[    58.274] (II) LoadModule: "fbdev"
[    58.275] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/fbdev_drv.so
[    58.275] (II) Module fbdev: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    58.275] 	compiled for 1.11.3, module version = 0.4.2
[    58.275] 	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 11.0
[    58.275] (II) UnloadModule: "fbdev"
[    58.275] (II) Unloading fbdev
[    58.275] (II) Failed to load module "fbdev" (already loaded, 0)
[    58.275] (II) NOUVEAU driver Date:   Wed Nov 30 18:56:54 2011 +0100
[    58.275] (II) NOUVEAU driver for NVIDIA chipset families :
[    58.275] 	RIVA TNT        (NV04)
[    58.275] 	RIVA TNT2       (NV05)
[    58.275] 	GeForce 256     (NV10)
[    58.275] 	GeForce 2       (NV11, NV15)
[    58.275] 	GeForce 4MX     (NV17, NV18)
[    58.275] 	GeForce 3       (NV20)
[    58.275] 	GeForce 4Ti     (NV25, NV28)
[    58.275] 	GeForce FX      (NV3x)
[    58.276] 	GeForce 6       (NV4x)
[    58.276] 	GeForce 7       (G7x)
[    58.276] 	GeForce 8       (G8x)
[    58.276] 	GeForce GTX 200 (NVA0)
[    58.276] 	GeForce GTX 400 (NVC0)
[    58.276] (II) VESA: driver for VESA chipsets: vesa
[    58.276] (II) FBDEV: driver for framebuffer: fbdev
[    58.276] (++) using VT number 7

[    58.287] drmOpenDevice: node name is /dev/dri/card0
[    58.287] drmOpenDevice: open result is 7, (OK)
[    58.287] drmOpenByBusid: Searching for BusID pci:0000:01:00.0
[    58.287] drmOpenDevice: node name is /dev/dri/card0
[    58.287] drmOpenDevice: open result is 7, (OK)
[    58.287] drmOpenByBusid: drmOpenMinor returns 7
[    58.287] drmOpenByBusid: drmGetBusid reports pci:0000:01:00.0
[    58.287] (II) [drm] nouveau interface version: 0.0.16
[    58.287] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/nouveau_drv.so
[    58.287] (WW) Falling back to old probe method for vesa
[    58.288] (WW) Falling back to old probe method for fbdev
[    58.288] (II) Loading sub module "fbdevhw"
[    58.288] (II) LoadModule: "fbdevhw"
[    58.288] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libfbdevhw.so
[    58.296] (II) Module fbdevhw: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    58.297] 	compiled for 1.11.3, module version = 0.0.2
[    58.297] 	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 11.0
[    58.297] (II) Loading sub module "dri"
[    58.297] (II) LoadModule: "dri"
[    58.297] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libdri.so
[    58.297] (II) Module dri: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    58.297] 	compiled for 1.11.3, module version = 1.0.0
[    58.297] 	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 6.0
[    58.297] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Loaded DRI module
[    58.298] drmOpenDevice: node name is /dev/dri/card0
[    58.298] drmOpenDevice: open result is 8, (OK)
[    58.298] drmOpenDevice: node name is /dev/dri/card0
[    58.298] drmOpenDevice: open result is 8, (OK)
[    58.298] drmOpenByBusid: Searching for BusID pci:0000:01:00.0
[    58.298] drmOpenDevice: node name is /dev/dri/card0
[    58.298] drmOpenDevice: open result is 8, (OK)
[    58.298] drmOpenByBusid: drmOpenMinor returns 8
[    58.298] drmOpenByBusid: drmGetBusid reports pci:0000:01:00.0
[    58.298] (II) [drm] DRM interface version 1.4
[    58.298] (II) [drm] DRM open master succeeded.
[    58.298] (--) NOUVEAU(0): Chipset: "NVIDIA NV28"
[    58.298] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Creating default Display subsection in Screen section
	"Default Screen Section" for depth/fbbpp 24/32
[    58.298] (==) NOUVEAU(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
[    58.298] (==) NOUVEAU(0): RGB weight 888
[    58.298] (==) NOUVEAU(0): Default visual is TrueColor
[    58.299] (==) NOUVEAU(0): Using HW cursor
[    58.299] (==) NOUVEAU(0): GLX sync to VBlank disabled.
[    58.299] (==) NOUVEAU(0): Page flipping enabled
[    58.372] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Output VGA-1 has no monitor section
[    58.486] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Output LVDS-1 has no monitor section
[    58.494] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Output DVI-D-1 has no monitor section
[    58.556] (II) NOUVEAU(0): EDID for output VGA-1
[    58.671] (II) NOUVEAU(0): EDID for output LVDS-1
[    58.671] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Manufacturer: SHP  Model: 139f  Serial#: 0
[    58.671] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Year: 2004  Week: 10
[    58.671] (II) NOUVEAU(0): EDID Version: 1.3
[    58.671] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Digital Display Input
[    58.671] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Max Image Size [cm]: horiz.: 33  vert.: 21
[    58.671] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Gamma: 2.20
[    58.671] (II) NOUVEAU(0): No DPMS capabilities specified[/INDENT]

So it seems that after a lot of thrashing, it winds up with the Nouveau driver.  It looks as though I do NOT have any Nvidia driver installed after all, but Synaptic showed one of the versions - guess I need boot back to 12.04 to update this info, but if anyone sees what's wrong from the above, please do respond. 


TIA,
R

---

### Post by momist on 2012-05-20
I'm not an expert, but I think you should be able to see whether you are using the Nouveau or nVidia drivers from the menu entries: Preferences/Additional Drivers.  This should list the nvidia driver, with a coloured button showing whether it is active of not.  This is true in Lubuntu, Mint or Ubuntu.

In addition to the PC with the GeForce 6200 card (this thread started with an old GeForce 4 in there), I also have a Del D630 with whatever video card is native to that.  That runs Lubuntu without any problems at all, with which I'm very pleased.  Having said that though, I don't use it for much, as I prefer sitting at a desk with keyboard and screen, and a TB of storage.

---

### Post by markbl on 2012-05-20
> **meandog said:**
> +1 
8600gt
Meandog, you posted this +1'ing that you can not run Unity 3D with your 8600 GT card. My video card is 8600 GT based and Unity + gnome-shell 3D work fine, and always have. The is a current problem in the nvidia 295.40 proprietary driver causing an xorg abort (segmentation fault) every few hours but the nouveau driver works fine in 3D with the 8600 GT.

---

### Post by rokky on 2012-05-20
> **momist said:**
> I'm not an expert, but I think you should be able to see whether you are using the Nouveau or nVidia drivers from the menu entries: Preferences/Additional Drivers.  This should list the nvidia driver, with a coloured button showing whether it is active of not.  This is true in Lubuntu, Mint or Ubuntu.

In addition to the PC with the GeForce 6200 card (this thread started with an old GeForce 4 in there), I also have a Del D630 with whatever video card is native to that.  That runs Lubuntu without any problems at all, with which I'm very pleased.  Having said that though, I don't use it for much, as I prefer sitting at a desk with keyboard and screen, and a TB of storage.

Thanks for the pointer, but it seems this nvidia driver "support" is not ready for prime time where my card is concerned.

That Additional Drivers showed NO other drivers installed, neither Nouveau nor Nvidia.  I decided I had things so snarled up, and wanted the "richer" XFCE setup anyway (only other choice without PAE support, unless I want to start with bare server base, but I did that with 8.04 back in the day, and don't want to spend that much time again), I just installed Xubuntu 12.04 over the same root partition to start over.

Then, after the initial round of post-install updates (thought that "update while installing" option bypassed that, but guess not all could be done that way?), I tried installing the nvidia-96 package.  However, I immediately got the broken packages error for it, and when I tried the option to fix broken packages, it balked with messages about held packages, so it looks as though the effort to fix the overall nvidia bug(s) has all this sort of thing on hold for now - ?

Guess this is what I get for jumping on a new release right away: join the final ("really, final") public beta.  No, thanks.  I will let it bake about another month before I check back - Mint 9/Ubuntu 10.04 is working just fine for me for now; I have other things to do with my computer time  :guitar:

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2012-05-21
> **rokky said:**
> That Additional Drivers showed NO other drivers installed, neither Nouveau nor Nvidia.

It's not supposed to show nouveau since nouveau is an open-source driver... Anyway, your issue is this: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-173/+bug/948053](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-173/+bug/948053)

---

### Post by rokky on 2012-05-21
> **Temüjin said:**
> It's not supposed to show nouveau since nouveau is an open-source driver... Anyway, your issue is this: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-173/+bug/948053](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-173/+bug/948053)

Thanks for that info.  A bit disturbing, though, if that one post about nvidia-96 not being supported any more with the latest Xorg turns out to be true.  I will have to rethink what I can do to keep using Linux on my Dell D800 - with its gorgeous 1920x1200 15.4-inch screen, I have a perfect desktop replacement, and an not willing to give it up just to find hardware to run Ubuntu 12.04- too much like tail wagging the dog.  I will have to see if there is some other "modern" non-Windoze alternative - or just keep running Mint 9, and OS updates be damned - Seamonkey keeps getting security updates ok...

"Linux keeps old PC's from being trashed" - yeah, right <sigh>

---

### Post by Dy1anW on 2012-07-11
Strangely I don't even get an option to install proprietary drivers. I installed version 295.4, but when I run nvidia-xconfig, it just writes a blank file in /etc/X11.

---

