---
title: "13.10; Catalyst installed; can no longer see my BIOS screen at boot"
date: 2013-11-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-08
This is probably another one of my dumb questions, but hey - I don't have a clue.

After installing 13.04 and then upgrading right away to 13.10, I needed the Catalyst drivers and control center so I installed them.  Got my resolution, etc., set up fine, but now when I reboot or power on I have noticed there is nothing that shows on my screen now until the grub menu.  I've tried pressing the DEL key (for my motherboard it's the way to get to the BIOS set up screens) at power on, and while it seems to do something, there is nothing on the screen - for lack of better words to describe it it is basically black with the back lighting.  Nothing else.  I have to reboot to get out of that, not press the DEL key, and then I everntually get the grub menu again.  There has been 1 change - I added a PCIe 4-port USB3 card.  Other than that nothing has changed except the setup in Catalyst (under scan values).

Any ideas?

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-11
Just to be sure the additional card wasn't causing some sort of problem, I removed the 4-port USB3 card.  At power up I am still unable to see/get to the BIOS set up screens - using delete key as stated in the motherboard book.  Not sure what, if anything, I may have done to cause this.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-12
Anyone with any type of ideas?  The only difference right now between the last time I could get to the BIOS screens and now is the installation of Catalyst and the driver for my video card, and the adjustment of the video settings.  I would have thought any such package installations and settings would be effective only in the OS they were installed in, so they probably have nothing to do with it, but I have lost the ability to get to my BIOS set up screens at initialization.

Will I need to do the motherboard pin to reset the BIOS defaults?

I'm usually a no-brainer with things like this, but unfortuately with age comes a "no brain" effect! ;)

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-16
Anyone?  I'm really stuck here - I need to use a serial port, but in order to use it I need to get into the BIOS so I can enable the serial port.

---

### Post by electrohandyman501 on 2013-11-17
Well, it sounds like you are using a standard PC, so here's my best idea for you to try.
With it powered off, disconnect the hard drive so the bios boot has nothing to see to load except what's in the firmware by default. 
This will most likely give you a boot error,(and would be expected) but it should allow you to get into the bios setup.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-19
Hummm......strange results.  Prior I had tried the motherboard jumper to reset the BIOS.  On only the first boot after doing so did I get any of the hardware startup screen, and pressing F1 to get to the setup as it said resulted in a blank screen I couldn't get out of - I suspect the first setup screen but it's not showing.

So, tried what you suggested - good idea by the way - but alas the only thing that shows up on the screen is the old non-boot media message, and it accepts any keystroke as an acknowledgement to try again.

I'm starting to think I might need to completely reflash my BIOS for whatever reason - everything works but the setup screens.  The only thing is, I have no clue how to flash the BIOS on an ASUS F1A55-M LE except by what the motherboard guide says - and that's all Windows.  Anyone have any idea if you can do that using Wine?

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-19
It has admittingly been a LONG time, so I don't even know if this applies to todays motherboards:  Can I remove the battery for a while and let the BIOS chip bleed off then reinstall the battery, and if so, does it still wipe out everything your BIOS knows about your CPU, etc., or do they default now (outside of date and time)?

I was going to try something last night and then my dumb DVD/RW drive for some reason decided not to even work - I'm hoping it's just from juggling a cable or something when I removed the SATA cables from the motherboard in order to try the boot.  At any rate, there's a how-to on the net for using freedos, you manufacturers' update utility and a BIOS image to build a disk image in Ubuntu, burn it to a CD and then boot off the CD to install the BIOS.  I thought I would try that to see if completely reinstalling the BIOS would help, but besides the DVD/RW drive going "wacky", I also couldn't quite follow what they were doing - creating a boot CD but yet everything for the OS is in a folder - doesn't seem like that should work.  [Here's the link]("http://www.ehow.com/how_7256759_update-bios-ubuntu.html") I was looking at.

I'm getting a little worried that I can't get to the BIOS anymore - sure hope something there isn't dying because I sure can't afford a different motherboard right now.

---

### Post by electrohandyman501 on 2013-11-20
Is your video controller built into the mother-board, or is a separate plug-in card? 
Maybe in lieu of a new motherboard, maybe a different video card. 
I had to add a new one a couple of years ago when I got a new monitor that wasn't vga.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-21
well, it's  a seperate card, but has bben there since I built the pc, using my hdtv all  along via hdmi.  i was able to into the bios before, that's what has me so confused.  Nobody in the house is using, or for that matter evem has, a "monitor" any more - I've had the entire family on hdtv's for a while now.  An that poses a problem - I've got nothing to test with now! ;)  I had thought of hooking up the onboard VGA to the VGA in on the TV, but, uh, well, I don't even have a VGA cable anymore ;)  Lesson learned!  I even went so far as to take the cmos battery out for about 30 minutes then put it in and power up.  Same thing - very first power up (none after) the "flash" screen from Asus shows and I press F1 to go to setup - immediately followed by a blank screen - so I had wondered about the VGA thing as well - perhaps something got flipped in the BIOS last time I was in there.

So, I've been thinking about re-flashing the BIOS, but all the tools from Asus, as with most if not all manufacturers except Apple now, require Windows and/or DOS.  I did find a link in the wiki entries for Ubuntu for using freedos, the manufacturers' utility, the BIOS image and burning a CD to reboot from and flash with.  Well, can't quite figure out what they are saying - I think they left out a step that may have had something to do with unpacking the thing first.  Then top it off by a DVD/RW that doesn't want to work.  I disconnected the power and data lines (SATA) going to the drive, then connected only the power - the drive cycles up at power on just fine.,  Put a disk in the drive and add the daata cable - it's like the thing isn't even recognized - the drive never spins, the access LED never flashes or comes on, just dead.  Has me buffalo'ed - I'm hoping it doesn't mean the drive has literally died, the motherboard is going bad or the power supply is going bad.  It's just kind of weird not being able to access (or more distinctly, see) the BIOS screens and then having this drive go weird all at the same time.

Been thinking about trying the manucturerers' disk via Wine but I need to have the drive working first.  I'm on disability, so the soonest I can pick up a different drive is after the 3rd of December, and of course I'm just anxious to get this working ;)

I built one of the IR receivers that connects to a serial port - easy enough to build - but without access to my BIOS I can't enable the serial port, as I usually disable that in my builds pretty much right from the start if I'm not using any serial devices.  I was a bad boy.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-11-21
SQUAKIE!!!

It took a full week for you to get around to saying that you are using HDMI and not VGA?!  ](*,)

Okay... the BIOS is probably booting up fine and there's likely nothing wrong with it. However, it is probably piping its output to VGA, so your monitor (which is in fact a TV) is being bypassed. This is just a guess, but it is the likeliest explanation. The easiest thing at this point is to borrow an old VGA monitor and cable from a friend and just test out the theory. While you are at it, make sure you borrow something with dual DVI/VGA inputs so you can test *all* outputs.

Until you make the simpler diagnosis, I think you're jumping the gun with the BIOS plans.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-21
Yep!  I just can't figure out why I could get in there when I first built the PC with the same hardware and same TV - that's why I'm wondering if perhaps the boot video got flipped from PCI to onboard somehow.  Hoping I can fix this without a BIOS reload - I just really need to hit up my friends an beg to borrow a VGA cable ;)

Hope things are going good with you!

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-21
Well, now I have a good news/"bad" news kind of thing - the neighbor right next door very promptly brought me a VGA cable and so I hooked it up to the VGA from the motherboard and to the VGA input on the TV, and I removed the HDMI cable from PC jack.  Power cycled the PC and - no signal on the VGa ;).  Me thinks me should wise up and take the video card OUT of the system before I try this testing (I could say it's been a long day, but hey - anymore I'm just plain stupid ;) ).  I will be doing that shortly.

---

### Post by electrohandyman501 on 2013-11-21
I had a similar issue when I added my DVI card on my old pc, no output on bootup. I had to connect via VGA to get to bios and change settings.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-21
Yep - had to remove the card for the on-board VGA to work, and I found out again just how dang stupid I have become - like time to lock myself in a room time.  The serial port WAS enabled.  That means 1 of 2 things:

- the bracket with cable I bought to hook up to my motherboard is either pinned wrong (extremely doubtful) or the ribbon cable end for the PC jack isn't a mtach for my motherboard (you know, the old red strip to pin 1 thing)

- I messed up on the dang simple device I built for a serial port IR receiver 

I haven't owned a breakout box since about 1999, but I wish I did now.  I've messing with electronics (hey - no formal training here !) since the early 1970's, and building actual IBM compatible PC's since the early 1980's.  I was a dang systems programmer on propreitary OS's and Unix.  Obviously my college education and my experience were well worth it - I'm the dumbest piece of crap walking the earth now ;)

Next step - check the pin outs on the bracket and cable.  Then tear apart my extremely simple device and find out what stupid thing I did there.

Nothing like making people think - why does this guy even TOUCH a PC anymore.......

---

### Post by electrohandyman501 on 2013-11-21
I've got a breakout box somewhere in the house here, can't remember the last time I used it, but I'm sure it's been in the last 2 years at work. Still have some serial com equipment. Now that you made me think of it I should try and find it and remove the batteries before they eat it up. (like my LAN tester. toasted it with leaked batteries....ug)

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-22
I know that feeling - I have, and had, the proverbial "tons" of stuff from before I quit working.  Some I just ended up throwing away, some I gave to friends, some I gave to a much younger generation than me so they could get some help getting started, and there's, well, "crap" that I've kept around for too long - and had the batteries eat up!  Early onset dementia?? ;)

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-11-22
> **squakie said:**
> Early onset dementia?It's not... like... contagious, is it?

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-22
Nah (hee hee hee), not a bit (hee hee hee) - only way is via electronic communications ;)

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-11-22
Well, I guess since the initial problem didn't turn out to be anything but "operator error" (read dumb-guy), I'll go ahead and mark it as solved.

---

