---
title: "Fujitsu N3010 ACPI and my Xorg.conf"
date: 2008-12-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by infiner on 2008-12-27
I saw this post about the Fujitsu N3010 laptop and I couldn't help but respond, unfortunately that forum was closed so in response to: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=760691](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=760691)

The "Legacy USB" is what is hanging the computer, you can turn ACPI back on after disabling the "Legacy USB" in the bios.  NOTE: This disables any USB keyboards, yeah I know the keyboard likely does not work, but, after the Ubuntu boot the keyboard should work with "Legacy USB" turned off, as Ubuntu detects ACPI, so you can toggle this setting if you really need it for installing operating systems etc..

If you are reading this, consider yourself lucky for one thing, for another PRINT THIS OUT AND SAVE IN SEVERAL SAFE PLACES ELECTRONICALLY. If the screen ever goes black, and it likely will, get out a flashlight and look closely, it's the backlight that is out, it may not be broken, the contrast may have defaulted to zero.  You will be able to see but it will be very hard, maybe outside in daytime would work best.

With the weird keyboard configuration being the only way to control the brightness, the only way to turn it back up, is with the default factory Fujitsu Windows XP install recovery disk, sigh.  There may be another way to do it somewhere but I haven't found it, I intend to make a keyboard layout for linux and Ubuntu if possible.  

Also, not sure if you are very technical, but heat sink compound and cleaning of the heat sink will extend the time the laptop stays on, as some versions overheat.  The laptop can be totally taken apart with a guitar pick and a screwdriver. (wear soft cotton gloves if working on monitor)

My xorg.conf file that works with 3d apps rather well, tested with Blender and Second Life (all settings down) with good results for a laptop this old.

This may very well likely work for all flavors of linux with the proper ATI driver installed (I used the ATI documentation to get some of these values)

I installed the ATI hardware drivers prior to using this via the standard method.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
# 
#  Also the following documentation was read extensively prior:
#
#  [http://xorg.freedesktop.org/wiki/radeon](http://xorg.freedesktop.org/wiki/radeon)
#
#  for the Fujitsu N3010 Laptop by infiner
# 
#  If no xorg.conf exists open terminal:
#
#  sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
#  gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
#

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Radeon 9000 RV250"
	Driver		"ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"

	# Option "NoAccel" "off"
	Option 		"Dac6Bit" 
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"	"true"
	Option		"GARTSize"	"64"
	# Option 		"UseFBDev"
        Option 		"AGPMode" "4"
        Option 		"AGPFastWrite"
	Option 		"BusType" "AGP"
	# Option 	"DDCMode"
        # Option 		"DisplayPriority" "AUTO"
        Option 		"DisplayPriority" "BIOS"
	# Option 		"MonitorLayout" "LVDS"
	# Option 		"PanelSize" "1400x1050"
	Option 		"EnablePageFlip"
	
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	# Virtual		1400 1050
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"dbe"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

---

