---
title: "10.04.1 ATI driver install (whats gone wrong?)"
date: 2010-09-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by avengerxp on 2010-09-28
ok, I have downloaded and installed Ubuntu 10.04.1 LTS successfully!

my PC has an ATI x1950 AGP VGA. downloaded the matching driver from ATI site.

it's a catalyst 9.3 .run file (the file that's available there. when i try to install it in the terminal

it asks for my password and then proceeds with decompress, but gives the following error and stops!

> Error: ./default_policy.sh does not support version
default:v2:i686:lib::none:2.6.32-24-generic; make sure that the version is being
correctly set by --iscurrentdistro

any idea how i can fix this?

---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2010-09-28
You may find that the driver you can download from ATI is more trouble than it's worth.  The free driver is pretty good now, so you should really see how it goes with that, first of all.  Any problems, ask back on here!  If you really need to use the ATI non-free driver, try running it with the --help option, to find out what options you can use to install it.

---

### Post by avengerxp on 2010-09-29
well, i need the driver installed badly. i was able to install this same driver on a ubuntu 8.04 LTS 64bit system.

but it gives this error for the newest ubuntu version.

my desktop effects are set to LOW, and i cant get out everything out of my card. can u help to get this done, pls

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-09-29
Your card is no longer supported by ATI in their proprietary driver:

[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.3.3.1&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.3.3.1&lang=English)

The driver you installed in 8.04 must have been an earlier one because the version of the xserver was different.

Searching the forums for X1950 shows that other people are having similar problems. That chipset was only released about four years ago, so it's pretty bad that it's no longer supported by ATI. Sorry.

---

