---
title: "nVidia restricred drivers gives blank screen"
date: 2008-07-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by LukeGX on 2008-07-19
Hi everyone,

I have Hardy Heron running on an Athlon 64/Gigabyte K8NS Ultra 939/6600GT.

I have a fresh install and the first thing I do is enable the restricted driver for my 6600GT via System/Administration/Hardware Drivers.

Next I reboot.

On reboot I get a blank screen right after the first progress bar when ubuntu is booting. The screen seems to be getting a signal as the status light is green (not amber) and there is a slight glow to the screen (ie it is not entirely black).

I have left the computer for more than 30 minutes before giving up and rebooting.

I use the recovery mode and fix X issues. This gives a message that the Xconf file has been changed and it is fixing it. The computer then boots as per usual but of course the restricted drivers are not in use.

/var/log/xorg.0.log gives this error:
(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)

xorg.conf (backed up version with restricted drivers enabled) looks like this:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

I have been looking and looking for days online and can't find anything that has helped.

Any help will be much appreciated.

Thanks,
Luke.

PS I am in +10 time zone.

---

### Post by LukeGX on 2008-07-19
Hmm, seems I am going to have to go back to windows :(

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-07-19
> **LukeGX said:**
> Hmm, seems I am going to have to go back to windows :(

EDIT:
nevermind

---

