---
title: "8.04 - (HAL?) update disables USB devices behind USB hub"
date: 2009-02-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lptr on 2009-02-18
Anyone recognized that during the last updates the detection of external USB harddrives connected behind a second USB hub which plugs directly into the mainboard is not recognized onymore?

Mainboard -> USBHUB1/KVMswitchATEN -> Keyboard/Mouse  (OK)
Mainboard -> USBHUB2Targus -> USB harddrives                  (FAIL)
Mainboard -> USB harddrives                                               (OK)

First I thought, that my USB hub is damaged. Had this some time ago, but it isn't. I replaced it with a brand new one. Same effect if connecting a HDD to that hub it is not recognized anymore. I know last weekend things worked, because I did a huge filetransfer to a backup device through this way. So it seems it has to do with one of the updates of the last days.

Regardless what USB drive (with own power supply or not) I did connect nothing reflects in dmesg. :( 

But all the devices working when directly connecting to one of the USB ports from mainboard. I also tried another USB mainboard port where I tested one of the known working HDDs with different USB hubs. No go.

# cat /proc/version
Linux version 2.6.24-23-386 (buildd@vernadsky) (gcc version 4.2.3 (Ubuntu 4.2.3-2ubuntu7)) #1 Sun Jan 25 23:32:00 UTC 2009

# lsb_release -rd
Description:    Ubuntu 8.04.2
Release:        8.04

output of lspci and dmesg see attachment.

Any help would be highly appreciated.

rob*

[update]
Inbetween I tested a HBCI card (banking card interface) reader behind the hub. Same here. This device is not detected anymore. I know I used it during the weekend multiple times, too.

---

### Post by lptr on 2009-02-20
Really nobody else?

Inbetween I booted from 8.04 Live CD and tried things. When I plug in USB devices in that USB hub it **works** flawlessly. When rebooting the fully patched system from harddrive it does not find USB devices that are plugged into this same hub.

So definitively one of the updates during last week (since saturday) broke things. Really stupid!


rob*

---

