---
title: "18.04 memory question"
date: 2018-07-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jgw on 2018-07-24
I am using ubuntu 18.04 and have experienced some show downs.  I have also noted that I seem to be using most of my memory.  Since my video is built into my motherboard my suspicion is that I actually don't have enough memory and that may be the cause of much of my problems.  Before I go out and add more memory I thought I would offer this up to see if I should buy myself more memory.  I currently have approx 8gb. System monitor tells me, right now, that I am using 58% programs and 18% cache.  I am writing this in firefox and firefox is the main program currently running.

Here is a link to my system: [https://pastebin.com/cqUdXgTi](https://pastebin.com/cqUdXgTi)

Thank you..................

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-07-24
That is showing that you only have 4 gig of memory. While that should be sufficient, I doubt that adding more is going to give you any more speed.  Have you installed a driver for you Nvidia card? If so, which one and where did you get it from?  The correct driver will definitely speed your system up.

Another thing to consider would be a lighter desktop such as Xubuntu: much less memory use than Ubuntu.

Lastly, keep in mind that Firefox, especially with several tabs running, is horrible for hogging up available resources.  If the only time you notice the slow down is when Firefox is running, you may want to look for another browser.

Task Manager should be installed already: if not, you can install it from either the Software Center or Synaptic.  Take a look and see where all of your "work" is being done when you have the slow down: that might let us give you more help.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-07-24
OK....I am confused now.  You say that you are running an Nvidia card, but I don't see it in what you posted concerning the specs of your system. What are you actually running?

---

### Post by jgw on 2018-07-24
Thank you for the responses.

sorry, I am running with several machines.  Here is a link to the system that runs 18.04: [https://pastebin.com/cqUdXgTi](https://pastebin.com/cqUdXgTi)  and a bit from that report:
Processor                       : AMD A8-7650K Radeon R7, 10 Compute Cores 4C+6G
Memory                         : 7080MB (2750MB used)
Machine Type                : Desktop
Operating System        : Ubuntu 18.04 LTS
User Name                    : greg (greg)
Date/Time                     : Fri 06 Jul 2018 09:20:47 AM PDT
-Display-
Resolution                    : 3840x2160 pixels
OpenGL Renderer        : AMD KAVERI (DRM 2.50.0 / 4.15.0-24-generic, LLVM 6.0.0)
X11 Vendor                  : The X.Org Foundation
-Audio Devices-
Audio Adapter       : HDA-Intel - HDA ATI HDMI
Audio Adapter       : HDA-Intel - HD-Audio Generic
Audio Adapter       : USB-Audio - USB2.0 PC CAMERA

I am using the radeon driver

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-07-24
I know very little about Radeon drivers, so I will just keep quiet on that part.  What bothers me right now is that 2,750MB of memory being used.  What else do you have running?  Check Task Manager and see what is running.

---

### Post by jgw on 2018-07-24
Linux doesn't have a task manager but, rather, a system monitor.  There is always a bunch of stuff running but firefox was the only thing that I started.  Right now the system monitor tells me I have firefox, gnome shell, gnome system monitor and xorg using the cpu.  It would be the same before.  That's about it.  There is a pile of other stuff but none using cpu resources although they are all a moving target as some stuff does something and then goes away and something else does something, etc.  Right now the resources part of the monitor tells me I am using 61% of 6.8gb of memory and 529mb of 2gb of swap memory.  Since I only have 8gb of memory total I suspect these figures but they do clever things.  I thinkj that the 6.8gb tells me that the gpu is probably using 1.2gb of the memory.  I continue to suspect that more memory might not be a bad idea (18.04 seems to use more of the memory than my 16.04 machine)

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2018-07-25
you RAM size is fine as it is.  the slow down is not due to low memory. Linux doesn't empty the memory, unless there is a need to do so. this speeds up the system. to get a good view of memory usage you need to check it immediately after boot.

if you want to tell the OS to start using hard disk later (e.g. only after 90% ram is occupied) you canchange the swapiness value. see more here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq)
tell the PC to use disk only after more RAM is occupied means it will use RAM, which is much faster, if at all possible first. then disk (which is much slower). RAM access times are measured in nanoseconds, while hdd are in miliseconds.

the slowdown is likely because of something else. it could be poor GPU drivers or a rouge process taking up the resources. this is best checked using top or htop command in CLI. you can then compare the usage when running desktop and when in console. htop info (install it from software center): [https://hisham.hm/htop/](https://hisham.hm/htop/)

you can also monitor heat in system using psensor in case there is any chance the CPU is overheating and as a result slows itself down. [https://wpitchoune.net/psensor/](https://wpitchoune.net/psensor/)

there are also stress tests available (for GPU and CPU) such as for example the phoronix suite where you can compare data and see if you actually have a slow down or if you are imagining it. you might also figure out what is causing the slowdown if top didn't show you that already. [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PhoronixTestSuite](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PhoronixTestSuite)

---

### Post by jgw on 2018-07-25
Thanks for the reply.

I tried to send this before but the machine locked up tight.  I think I will increase my memory for the heck of it.  Its cheap and easy <G>  I will also install the phoronix thing.  your link to that one was created in 2011 and there seems to be a new way to install now at: [https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-the-latest-phoronix-test-suite-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver](https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-the-latest-phoronix-test-suite-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver)   I also checked it out and found that even that one doesn't install the latest and greatest.  No problem, thought I would let you know.

When my machine locked up I had recently checked out what was going on.  It was downloading so I paused that.  There were a couple of other programs running and I stopped those too.  So all I had running, other than Firefox was system monitor (a gnome addon).  The only activity it was showing was memory (around 40% user and 20% cache (I think))  The cpu user was at around 35% and something called neat was at 16%  (there was more but I have forgot - my memory is no longer all that great)

What I am going to do is to run phoronix tests and increase my memory.  If I get into trouble I will post it here.  It will be a while I suspect.

There are not a lot of drivers for radeon.  The one I am using was put in automatically by the system and that is the one I am using.  I think its actually called "radeon" and it seems to work.  I did run a bunch of benchmarks with along with the hardware info with hardinfo and included that report when I posted this.  

I wish there was a program that produced system stats and posted the info to a logfile.  Then, when the system froze, or misbehaved, and I had to reboot, I could find that file and also find out just what was happening.   There may actually be such a thing but I have no idea what, or where, it might be.  (also post it if I had no idea what it was telling me)

Thanks again!

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2018-07-26
you can check logs in /var/log there should also be a log viewer preinstalled on the OS.

nmon: [https://www.tecmint.com/nmon-analyze-and-monitor-linux-system-performance/](https://www.tecmint.com/nmon-analyze-and-monitor-linux-system-performance/)

maybe collectctl: [https://www.tecmint.com/linux-performance-monitoring-with-collectl-tool/](https://www.tecmint.com/linux-performance-monitoring-with-collectl-tool/)

i am not familiar with your chip, but you should check it it has other drivers available. radeon are default opensource drivers meant for older chips, but AMD has other driver version for some chips (AMDGPU and AMDGPU pro). some chips in R7 series are supported by AMDGPU: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AMDGPU-Driver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AMDGPU-Driver)

according to AMD ([https://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/AMD-Radeon-GPU-PRO-Linux-Beta-Driver%E2%80%93Release-Notes.aspx](https://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/AMD-Radeon-GPU-PRO-Linux-Beta-Driver%E2%80%93Release-Notes.aspx)) it is also supported by AMDGPU pro, but i would double check to get the correct chip using the commands on ubuntu help page.

---

### Post by jgw on 2018-07-26
Thank you for the reply.

I have tried to mess with the radeon drivers before and experienced disaster so I am fearful but I can make another run at it.  Oh, on my 18.04 desktop I have a link to "help" which does the job.  

I just went to the amd site and rooted around a bit.  From what I can tell putting one of their drivers on a machine which is running 16.04 brings on problems (that is where I ran into problems)  Putting anything on a machine running 18.04 may really result in disaster.  I think I had better wait until 18.04 actually gets to done status before I mess with that one.  I moved this machine from 16.04 to 18.04 because it actually seemed to handle a 4k tv better than when it was running 16.04 .  Anyway, I think I will stick with 'radeon' for a bit and keep an eye on the amd site as well.  I also believe that a better driver would be of help - I will study on this one!

I found a program called "logs" on my system.  I ran it and it got strange real fast.  I think this program goes to var/log and starts reading the logs and sorts them into groups.  the groups seem to be; important, all, applications, system, security, and hardware.  It starts with 'important' which seems to be reporting all sorts of errors of one sort or another.  If you are not familiar with this I could post some of this on pastebin.  It also had an option to put a page full into a file.  Here is a sample of 'important  (there seems to be a lot of problems with my vpn (pia))' amonst others:
10:05:08 AM dhclient: dhclient.c:2864: Failed to send 300 byte long packet over fallback interface.
 9:42:17 AM openvpn: Authenticate/Decrypt packet error: bad packet ID (may be a replay): [ #13000 ] -- see the man page entry for --no-replay and --replay-window for more info or silence this warning with --mute-replay-warnings
 8:47:56 AM NetworkManager: <error> [1532620076.0096] vpn-connection[0x555e749d0870,d21e4aba-978f-4722-b166-a07f329cbc14,"PIA - US California",0]: Failed to request VPN secrets #3: No agents were available for this request.
 8:47:53 AM dhclient: dhclient.c:2864: Failed to send 300 byte long packet over fallback interface.
 8:47:49 AM NetworkManager: <error> [1532620069.4956] vpn-connection[0x555e749d0270,d21e4aba-978f-4722-b166-a07f329cbc14,"PIA - US California",0]: Failed to request VPN secrets #3: No agents were available for this request.
 8:46:33 AM dhclient: dhclient.c:2864: Failed to send 300 byte long packet over fallback interface.
 8:46:29 AM NetworkManager: <error> [1532619989.8624] vpn-connection[0x555e749d0870,d21e4aba-978f-4722-b166-a07f329cbc14,"PIA - US California",0]: Failed to request VPN secrets #3: No agents were available for this request.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2018-07-27
sorry, i am not familiar with VPN. i know it's a good thing to have, but i could never get it work as i wanted it to :)

the old logs are available in /var/log - some logs are created from scratch every time you reboot the PC. so if PC froze you need to check the old logs after reboot. the .old file ending is what gives them away. :P

about the drivers - AMD used to have catalyst drivers. there are indeed no longer suitable for newer Ubuntu versions (after 14.04.1). however, during this time they created new drivers but only for some chips. they are called AMDGPU and AMDGPU pro. it is these drivers you could investigate, but you need to identify the exact chip first to see if they are even compatible or not. if they are the install is made via repositories i believe, not using the AMD website.

so far i tried "radeon" opensource drivers on 4 different chips at home in 14.04. it works well on one (very old card), it worked well on the second one (but the GPU died), on the 3rd it created overheating issues (so i use the catalyst there still), on the 4th it works well. so 3 out of 4 is not that bad. i also like to believe that "overheating" was fixed at that 4th chip and possibly it would work well there as well.

radeon is missing some features. they may be important for games, some high performance tasks, high resolution display, desktop effects etc. in many cases it is surprisingly just good enough.

---

