---
title: "Switch between graphic card opened/closed source drivers"
date: 2015-05-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by davidricq87 on 2015-05-17
Hi,

I would to know if it's possible to switch graphic card drivers fastly (and easily).

Actually I run proprietary drivers from amd website. These drivers work pretty well for game but I have some incompatibility with some SDK apps. (ex: android emulator not works).
Open drivers are really slow for game even with the latest version, I also note that my graphic card is not recognised correctly but SDK apps works as expected.

So I would like to know if it's possible to blacklist module (I try fglrx and amd_iommu_v2 but it seems it's not enought), change config files to disable amd proprietary drivers.
Uninstall completely with apt-get purge is really annoying if I want to reinstall 30 mins later.

It would be great if someone know how to do that at runtime or with a quick reboot.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2015-05-17
> **davidricq87 said:**
> I would to know if it's possible to switch graphic card drivers fastly (and easily).

Sorry, no, it isn't.

If you need different drivers according to the different scenarios you mentioned, then I suggest you use two different installations in dual boot.

---

### Post by davidricq87 on 2015-05-17
Hi [COLOR=#000000]Vladlenin5000[/COLOR],

If I check correctly my packages installed I have the 2 differents drivers installed on my computers.

It's not possible to explicitly says to ubuntu that X graphical drivers are priority on AMD drivers and vice versa ?
Why it's not possible ?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-05-17
davidricq87; Hello;;
The key wording here is :
> 
switch graphic card drivers fastly (and easily)

The response is NO .
Now is it doable ? The response is YES.
One needs to configure 2 ' /etc/X11/Xorg.conf ' files appropriate to the desired result and boot with the proper config file.
MAFoElffen provides the instruction to do this within his mega thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

[INDENT][INDENT]not elegant
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]but works
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by davidricq87 on 2015-05-17
Hi Bashing-om,

Do you know on which page is he talking about it (if you have it), the thread is really long and don't find in table of content.:(

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-05-17
davidricq87; Sorry;

Been to long since I read through that huge thread, it is a ways in but I did not note where I read his instruction.

Look on the bright side in your search effort.
That thread
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]is a good read
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by davidricq87 on 2015-05-20
Hi,
Here is the solution that I found. It use the same way to hybrid graphics cards : [https://applicative-games.cppcabrera.com/posts/hybrid-gfx-ubuntu.html](https://applicative-games.cppcabrera.com/posts/hybrid-gfx-ubuntu.html) 

I don't know if it's the best solution in my case but it respond to my need :
Please be carefull, if you want to reproduce these steps know what you do !!!!

In my case, I delete /etc/X11/xorg.conf but maybe you need to adjust.

Switch to fglx => radeon  :
 - sudo vim /etc/modprobe.d/fglrx-core.conf (go to [1])
 - sudo update-alternatives --config x86_64-linux-gnu_gl_conf
 ---> choose : /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/mesa/ld.so.conf (or /usr/lib/pxpress/ld.so.conf)
- sudo ldconfig
- sudo reboot

[1] Here is the file to obtain (please do a backup, it will be delete)

# This file was installed by fglrx""
# Do not edit this file manually

#blacklist radeon
#alias fglrx fglrx
#alias radeon off
#alias lbm-radeon off
blacklist fglrx               
blacklist amd_iommu_v2





Switch to radeon => fglrx   :
 - sudo vim /etc/modprobe.d/fglrx-core.conf (go to [2])
 - sudo update-alternatives --config x86_64-linux-gnu_gl_conf
 ---> choose : /usr/lib/fglrx/ld.so.conf (auto mode)
- sudo ldconfig
- sudo reboot


[2] Here is the file to obtain

# This file was installed by fglrx""
# Do not edit this file manually

blacklist radeon
alias fglrx fglrx
alias radeon off
alias lbm-radeon off





What do you think about this solution ?

---

