---
title: "i915.modeset=0 in 10.10 on Dell E5510 (i3 M370)"
date: 2010-12-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ERIC H on 2010-12-03
Hello - 

I recently got another laptop from work that uses the Intel i3 M370 chip in a Dell E5510. I had much more success with screens using the same model Dell but with an i5 M520 cpu. With the i3 in 10.10, I am forced to set i915.modeset to 0, which is the same I had to do with the i5 for 10.04.

But in 10.10 with the i5, I didn't have any issues installing or post-install with the screen as I do with the i3. I've updated /etc/default/grub to add extra boot options so the screen "works" but I can't seem to find any other fixes. The screen scrolls a couple pixels horizontally, which isn't too bad but boot times are actually taking slightly longer and splash screen is garbled for a couple seconds once X is started. In other words, it's not pretty.

I read in a thread I had posted in a few weeks ago in regards to the Alps Touchpad issues on the E5510 about a kernel freeze in 10.10, which was where the issue lies with the i3/5/7 cores (according to a bug report on launchpad), so does that mean there will not be a fix for 10.10?

---

### Post by ERIC H on 2010-12-03
Poked around for more threads that make mention of i915.modeset and found this PPA for latest driver/kernel: [https://launchpad.net/~guido-iodice/+archive/best-intel](https://launchpad.net/~guido-iodice/+archive/best-intel)

I've installed and when booting in 2.6.36-1 kernel with i915.modeset=0 removed from grub, I cannot start X (no screens available). The console is running in native resolution though, and I see the Ubuntu splash screen for a second, which I never did setting modeset to 0.

Update:

Checked xorg.conf to see vesa driver being used instead of intel. Changed driver to intel, added VideoRam 258048 accordingly, saved and restarted. Edited out i915.modeset=0 from 2.6.36-1 kernel in grub menu and, VOILA, booted with gui. Logged in and removed modeset=0 from /etc/default/grub, update-grub and rebooted....now back to square one. 

Using intel driver in xorg, without modeset=0, I get a blank screen. I can only start X with vesa driver and modeset=0 yet again.

---

### Post by isync on 2010-12-22
I've got the same issues with the screen and the i915 chips. Any movement regarding this bug/missing-driver?

(problem under 10.04 and 10.10)

---

### Post by ERIC H on 2011-01-26
I've given up trying to run latest Ubuntu distros on these laptops. It worked as well as can be expected on the i5 E5510 (trackpad had basic functionality, no multi-touch gestures, etc) but I never got it to work properly on an i3 OOTB. Unfortunately, the i5 was given to us by Dell for testing and we will have to give it back and only have the budget for the i3 E5510's. Really starting to miss my HP 6510b from previous employer. That thing ran everything I threw at it.

---

