---
title: "cd-rom is gone"
date: 2009-10-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by venom035 on 2009-10-05
Hi
A couple of days ago i switched some of my HDD (all sata), but now ubuntu doesn't find my CD-rom anymore (when i putt in a cd it does nothing, it doesn't even mount the cd at the bootup)

this is my /etc/fstab file

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=7634ef3b-2acf-47cf-947d-44c4d3e76d24 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=5d66d160-c960-4b23-92d4-6a1f7d73c24e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/W ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/T ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

when i look in the /dev/ folder there's no /dev/scd0 or /dev/cdrom 

can anybody solve this (sorry for the bad english)

---

### Post by FrostDust on 2009-10-05
I'm thinking that /dev/scd0 may no longer be the correct file for your CD drive. Post the output of:

```
sudo blkid
```

That should give you a bunch of info about the drives attached to your computer.

---

### Post by venom035 on 2009-10-05
the result

/dev/sda1: UUID="2810DEA310DE76F2" LABEL="W" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="5ACCD8CFCCD8A693" LABEL="D" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda6: TYPE="swap" UUID="5d66d160-c960-4b23-92d4-6a1f7d73c24e" 
/dev/sda7: UUID="7634ef3b-2acf-47cf-947d-44c4d3e76d24" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sdb1: UUID="882011B12011A6EA" LABEL="T" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda8: UUID="f688cb7f-02cb-4d9e-8f79-1c606ed21b6e" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/ramzswap0: TYPE="swap"

---

### Post by BikeHelmet on 2009-10-05
My DVD burner disappeared with one of the past few kernel updates. It no longer shows up in /dev, and according to lshw and blkid, it doesn't exist.

I've already tried tweaking BIOS options. Someone informed me that AHCI can cause such behaviour, but my board is a VIA-C7 with no AHCI option - and to the best of my knowledge, nothing changed except the kernel version.

A kernel update partially breaking compatibility with your PATA or SATA controller seems most likely... but who knows?

Good luck. :)

---

### Post by arvevans on 2009-10-05
Your statement:

    "A couple of days ago i switched some of my HDD"

may be a clue into the problem (or may not).  When you switched
HDD drives, did you remember to check the hardware address jumpers at the back of each drive?  Do you have a conflict with drive hardware addressing?

When you boot into the BIOS, does it show all the drives, including your CD-ROM drive? BIOS not seeing the drive could be indicative of a hardware or hardware addressing problem?  

Bad cables are a possibility if you moved them around a lot, or maybe got one plugged into the motherboard incorrectly.

---

### Post by venom035 on 2009-10-08
Personaly i think it has something to do with the kernel update because all my hdd drive are still working like they did even when i changed them back, it's just weir that my cd-rom drive is gone, 

by the way i check my bios and the cd rom drive is there

---

### Post by Tux Aubrey on 2009-10-08
I'm getting something similar after recent kernel updates for Karmic - iso9660 mounts not being recognised and unable to use "sudo mount -t iso9660 .......".  Its playing merry heck with my virtual machines!

---

