---
title: "10.04: Connecting USB drive"
date: 2014-11-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Rajesh_Sahoo on 2014-11-05
I am using Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and am newbie to this platform. And when i connect my USB drive (PNY M1 Attache 8GB) to USB port its not getting auto mounted.

But when i type lsusb in TERMINAL. The device is listed there. And the same device is listed in windows and the format of the device is FAT32.

Please help me.. Would be really thankful..

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-11-05
Ubuntu 10.04 is outdated, support ended in May, 2013 unless you are using the server version. Did it ever work to auto mount?  You could manually mount it.  First create a mount point with a name you want such as PNY with:  sudo mkdir /mnt/PNY, then mount it:  sudo mount -t vfat /dev/sdXY /mnt/PNY
You need to replace the XY with the device and partition number such as sdb1.  Run sudo fdisk -l to get that.

Currently supported Desktop versions of Ubuntu are 12.04, 14.04 and 14.10.

---

### Post by Rajesh_Sahoo on 2014-11-05
Thanks. I will try and put the screen shot of the terminal...

---

### Post by Rajesh_Sahoo on 2014-11-05
Buddy i have tried ur solution. But its not working. I mean its not getting mounted....:( Please help..

But the  one more is of brand MOSERBEAR. Its getting mounted...

And i have attached the SS of error in terminal..

---

### Post by Rajesh_Sahoo on 2014-11-06
And it never work as auto mount..:(

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-11-07
As mentioned above 10.04 is unsupported. You would do yourself a favour by first installing 14.04.1 or 14.10.

When that is done we can take a look at the USB drive.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-11-07
*Thread closed*.

As you have been advised a number of times on the thread, 10.04 LTS is no longer supported (by Canonical or these forums). Please install a supported release. If you need help doing that, please post a new thread with a descriptive title. I recommend installing 14.04 LTS or 12.04 LTS, both with five years support. Please read [HERE]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2229730") for staff recommendations on end-of-life, unsupported releases.

Good luck.

---

