---
title: "8.04-&gt;8.10 Won't resume from suspend (fglrx 8.54.3)"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kllrnohj on 2008-11-05
After doing the upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10, suspend on my Lenovo Z61p with a Mobility FireGL V5200 no longer resumes. The hard drive light flashes for a bit, then stops, but the screen stays blank. This is using the driver installed by the restricted driver manager. In 8.04 I had manually installed the ATI drivers to the newest version to fix suspend, but from what I can tell the newest drivers are still being used (according to the ATI Control Center the driver version is 8.54.3).

I have tried with both Compiz enabled and with just Metacity - that didn't seem to matter.

Here is my xorg.conf:
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver      "kbd"
#	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
#	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
#	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
#	Driver      "mouse"
#	Option	    "CorePointer"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
#	Driver      "synaptics"
#	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
#	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
#	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
#	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
#EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "EnableMonitor" "crt1,lvds"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by Spazed on 2008-11-06
This is my exact problem, same hardware and everything. Any help would be awesome.

---

### Post by dlstyley on 2008-11-19
Same problem here.  Resume works when I disable restricted drivers and just go with radeon driver, otherwise it hangs on resuming as described.

Acer Extensa 4420 laptop
ATI RS690 chipset
AMD 64 X2
Radeon X1200 series (onboard?)

---

### Post by hanspb on 2008-11-21
In my case hibernate works fine, but i think it takes a little long to wake up (about 75-80 secs). Suspend, on the other hand works once after a boot, after that I only get a blank screen on resume. HP laptop with ATI Radeon Xpress 200M graphics and fglrx 8.54.3 driver.

---

### Post by punkybouy on 2008-11-23
I think this is a big problem for everyone.  I have the same issue on a new HP G60 with Nvidia graphics.  It will hibernate and come back from that just fine but sleep and suspend won't resume.
Ubuntu 8.10 64 bit.

---

### Post by hotani on 2008-11-25
Same here on a Dell Latitude D531. [Here's](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support/+bug/296644) the bug report. 

The laptop has ATI graphics - can't remember which card though. I get as far as the login for a locked screen, but then it's jammed and I have to hard boot.

---

### Post by freedom on 2008-12-03
Same here... 
My laptop have ati radeon HD 2600 and I can't get him resume from suspend.
fglrx driver problem i guess but is there any workarounds? :(

---

### Post by dreameen on 2008-12-03
Chaps, the thing that did it for me was adding a Option "VBERestore" "true" to xorg.conf:

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
        Option "VBERestore" "true"
EndSection
```

...in combination with changing the Visual Effect under Appearance to None.

Please spread the word if it works for you. This distro deserves it.:)

---

### Post by NEI on 2009-02-05
Thanks! This fixed my resume problems!

---

### Post by hanspb on 2009-02-09
Well, it did not help me. Same as before, resume from suspend works only once after reboot. It also seems like the whole system hangs when I get the black screen, because it is not possible to do a ctrl-alt-backspace or a normal shutdown which I have on the power button. The only way to get back is to hold down the power button (aka Swedish Restart:-) ).

---

### Post by dlstyley on 2009-04-13
The latest drivers from ATI/AMD's web site (8.593) appear to fix this issue for me.  I just installed them and suspend/resume has worked properly twice in a row.  

This page had all the info for installing.  I followed the "manual install" (it creates packages for your specific distribution and then install and config through a series of commands).  

  

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Intrepid_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_proprietary_drivers_.22the_ATI_way.22](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Intrepid_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_proprietary_drivers_.22the_ATI_way.22)

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2009-04-21
I discovered that ndiswrapper was causing the problem for me.

If that's you, see this thread for the solution.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1125457](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1125457)

---

### Post by hanspb on 2009-04-22
No, I don't use Ndiswrapper. For now I'll wait until I have upgraded to Jaunty, then try the new ATI-driver.

---

### Post by hanspb on 2009-05-07
Well, since support for the Radeon Xpress cards suddenly has been removed in Catalyst 9.4 (Jaunty), I went back to Intrepid and installed Catalyst 9.3 (fglrx 8.593), since the rumors say that suspend is working with that driver. But not so. Everything is exactly as before. I can suspend once after a boot, next time I try I only get a black screen on wakeup. I am really not shure the graphics driver is causing this though, because it seems that the whole system locks up.
:confused:

---

