---
title: "12.04+ATI+Cinnamon"
date: 2013-03-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bumskull623 on 2013-03-15
After enabling the ATI driver either by using the additional drivers or downloading and install the driver from AMD I can no longer log in and interact with the desktop.  Im using a Dell M6600 laptop which has the M8900 FirePro in it.  If I install the driver and leave things alone it will work just fine but that doesn't help me with my 2 external monitors.  In the office I have the lid closed and use just the 2 external, so I set up the multiple monitors in the AMD Control Panel and reboot, then it all goes down the drain.  All I get from there is a fallback login that looks like Unity but the top bar will be duplicated about 5 times and same with the bottom, any applets will be duplicated as many times but only on the very top bar.  The second monitor is unusable, if you mistakenly move your mouse to it you can't move it back to the other screen and have to hard shutdown as no keys or anything interact with the other screen to do anything.  Without the driver I can get Cinnamon setup the way I like it but have issues with using some applications where I will get just a gray screen until I change its size either manually or by clicking the middle maximize button 2 times.  i don't know where to look for log files or anything like that to help figure this out.

I had been working with Fedora 17 for quite some time with the official AMD driver and Cinnamon not having any issues.  Recently they released a new kernel and when I tried to install it and redo the AMD driver all hell broke losse and I couldn't get back to working so I thought I would give Ubuntu a try agan since it has been a few years since last trying it.

I have tried various combinations of install driver reboot run **aticonfig** --[B]initial  
[/B]

---

