---
title: "14.04.3 Unity, change mobo z87 to z97, problems?"
date: 2016-03-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-03-05
mod move if necessary
14.04.3 Unity, change mobo z87 to z97, problems?

thinking about a change in mobo from z87 to z97.  I know my win7 will require recert but how about ubuntu - any difference in drivers, etc?
Thanks!

---

### Post by weatherman2 on 2016-03-05
Ubuntu and Linux are very flexible about booting on different hardware without changing anything.  If 14.04.3's kernel has all the drivers needed for the new motherboard, it will work fine - I'd guess it will.  If not, you will find out.  No one here can really predict for sure until you try it.  Most likely, it will at least boot automatically.  It's possible you will see some other glitches after you boot.

Expect your network card device identifiers to change (eth0 will change to eth1, etc.) but you can change that if you want - doesn't bother most people and they may never even notice.

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-03-05
That said, if you are using any proprietary drivers (for your GPU for instance), it is a good idea to remove them prior to a change like this.  Even if you are not changinging other hardware, doing so avoids potential unforeseen issues.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-03-05
thanks - z97 is 1150 is relatively old as chipsets go.  
Yeah I see where that might be a prob if i upgraded to an 1151 or newer type chipset.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-03-05
> **QIII said:**
> That said, if you are using any proprietary drivers (for your GPU for instance), it is a good idea to remove them prior to a change like this.  Even if you are not changinging other hardware, doing so avoids potential unforeseen issues.

oops - yeah I do. Thanks!  (Nvidia)

---

