---
title: "802.11n with HP Mini 311"
date: 2009-11-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Emblem Parade on 2009-11-23
I've enabled the restricted Broadcom drivers, but still can only connect at 802.11g speeds.

When I try "sudo iwlist eth2 rate" I only see speeds up to 54 mbps.

Any ideas?

This is sad. I specifically paid extra for "Wireless N" on my HP Mini.

---

### Post by Dark_Stang on 2009-11-23
Your speed depends on several things.
Distance from router.
Encryption that you're running. WEP/WPA+TKIP slow down the network, WPA2+AES does not.
If there are B or G devices running on the network this can cause overall speed to drop.
The more devices on the access point the slower everything gets.
And even after all that your bottleneck is still going to be your internet connection.

---

### Post by Emblem Parade on 2009-11-23
Thanks!

I absolutely have a 300 mbps router, and it's located right next to the netbook. I am the only one connected. Also, I have disabled all encryption and authentication.

The Ubuntu restricted Broadcom driver seems to have a roof for my card.

---

### Post by madbbb on 2009-11-23
> **Emblem Parade said:**
> I've enabled the restricted Broadcom drivers, but still can only connect at 802.11g speeds.

When I try "sudo iwlist eth2 rate" I only see speeds up to 54 mbps.

Any ideas?

This is sad. I specifically paid extra for "Wireless N" on my HP Mini.

have you tried ndiswrapper driver?

---

### Post by Emblem Parade on 2009-11-25
Good suggestion! Unfortunately, the Windows drivers I downloaded from HP's support site do not come with a separate .inf driver, and fail when I try to run their setup util in WINE.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Emblem Parade on 2009-12-16
OK! I think I got somewhere.

I downloaded the Windows drivers from [here]("http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/softwareDownloadIndex?softwareitem=ob-76010-1&lc=en&dlc=en&cc=us&lang=en&os=228&product=4054498") (HP's driver site).

I ran setup.exe from a Windows XP machine I had lying around. That junk is handy sometimes. :)

In Ubuntu, install the ndisgtk package. This will add "Windows Wireless Drivers" to System->Administration. From there, you can install the .inf for the driver. On my machine, it complained that it couldn't find the hardware, but showed the hardware as available anyway. Also, not configuration tool is available.

Then, disable the Linux driver. It's probably System->Administation->Hardware Drivers.

Reboot.

Seems to report higher speeds now: 65 mbps, sometimes 70 mbps. Still not 802.11n speeds, though.

Any ideas how I can tweak this?

---

