---
title: "How to get nvidia drivers to work!!!"
date: 2009-09-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by papajonesy on 2009-09-14
This an extremely common problem and a lot of complaints for this exist. Here is a how-to:

NOTE: This is for nVidia drivers only, if you have an ATI card this will do nothing.

PLEASE STICKY THIS

Firstly, this works for all Ubuntu-based distros, I have tested it on Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu. So basically if this doesn't work for you leave a reply and I will test the Ubuntu variation for you and find you a solution. PRINT THIS OUT BEFORE YOU START AND HAVE A PAPER TO WRITE ON. Here we go.


[LIST=1]
[*]First go to System from the Gnome panel, go to Administration and click Hardware Drivers. Click the latest driver, which is generally 180.xx and activate it. After it is done installing reboot your computer. The general problem for most people is the X windows won't start so here is what you do.
[*]When you boot up you will not have a GUI, you might get stuck at a screen that has a bunch of asterisks which one of them will include:

> PulseAudio is configured for pre-user sessions [OK]or something to that effect. If you are stuck at this screen press Control+Alt+F2. At this screen you will have to log in. So go ahead and log in and now we can move on to step 3.
[*]If you have two video cards or more in SLI then type this in:

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --sli=on
```then type in this command, it will show you the location of your video cards:

```
lspci | grep -i vga
```the output will look something like this but it will be specific to your video card(s) model.

```
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 9800 GTX+ (rev a2)
04:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 9800 GTX+ (rev a2)

```The first number you see write it down like this, NOT HOW YOU SEE IT IN THE OUTPUT:

if it is a 3 write it down like this "PCI:3:0:0" and make sure you have it written down you will need it. Also write down the model starting with GeForce, like this "GeForce 9800 GTX+" or whatever your model is such as "GeForce 8800 GT"
[*]Now for the final step, type in this command and make sure you capitalize the X in X11:

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```This will bring up a text editor. Go to the Device section and type this in and replace the wrong information and add the new information, modify it like this:

> Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9800 GTX+"
    BusID       "PCI:3:0:0"
EndSectionChange the BoardName part to your specific model. Make sure the identifier is changed to Device0 and not left as "Configured Video Device" or whatever it says by default. Then hit Control+X and then type Y to save it then once you are back in the terminal type in:

```
sudo reboot
```Now you are done, congratulations! Ubuntu, or whatever variation you are using should boot up normally now.

If you have any question post a reply or send me a message.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by xmaicox on 2009-10-08
Unfortunately this procedure did not also work for me, Im kinda frustrated right now cuz I think I tried almost everything, my original post can be found here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8072571#post8072571](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8072571#post8072571)
Here's my Specs:

Specs:
Monitor: HP L1706
MOBO: XFX 750i dual SLI
Video: 2 Palit 9800 GT Sonic 512MB
RAM: Team Elite 2 x 2GB
HDD: WDC 250 GB
CPU: Q8200 @ stock

Here's my xorg.conf after removing nvidia-glx-180:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

