---
title: "11.10 Oneiric (AMD 64) AMD E-450, ATI HD 6320 AMD Catalyst 11.8"
date: 2011-10-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-11
Hi, i got a problem i can't figure out how to fix.
I got 11.10 Oneiric (AMD 64) on a Lenovo s205 with AMD E-450, ATI HD 6320 Graphics and AMD Catalyst 11.8 driver.
The perfomance is not terrible but worse than the standard driver Ubuntu boots with before the proprietary ATI driver are installed. When dragging windows over the desktop they don't move smooth and wacthing videos in Totem Movie Player i get black frames every 3-4 seconds.
Also i got a "AMD Unsupported hardware" water mark in my lower right corner of my desktop the hole time. In Ubuntu "System Info" in Ubuntu system setting it repports graphics driver to be "VESA: Wrestler"
I tried the "ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver (post-release updates)" but it can't install.
The 11.9 driver from AMD installes but does not work with Unity, the launcher are missing.
If I remove the ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver, Unity launcher are again missing when restarting.

Why don't 11.9 driver from AMD work with Unity?
Why are the performance bad, is really smooth in win7?

---

### Post by zlyke on 2011-10-13
Bump. I also have an AMD HD 6xxx series card. The 11.9 proprietary driver no longer works with Unity. The Unity Shell and launcher do not appear in Ubuntu 11.10. 64-bit 11.10 as well. It is seemingly booting in 2D mode regardless of whether or not I pick full Unity or 2D Unity. 

At least a direction with which driver works best would be much appreciated.

Thank you.

Edit:

I have tried reinstalling the driver but when the proprietary driver is installed it will not load past the splash screen on a normal boot. I have to back into recovery, force an uninstall of the AMD / ATI proprietary driver before I can get back into a DE.

---

### Post by morfeasrev on 2011-10-13
Similar problems here with 5850.
Can't install 'post-release-updates' from 'additional drivers' tool
(got the error 'look at error log /var/log/jockey.log or something)
but could install the standard package.

Finally got installed synaptic and then installed (without problems) fglrx-updates package, which seems to be the 'post-release-updates' driver.

Had MAJOR problems with this release until I removed 'nautilus-open-terminal' package. It's a pity coz this drops my productivity by a major number of times.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-13
Are we waiting for 11.9 to be adapted to Unity, how does it work?

---

### Post by morfeasrev on 2011-10-13
Just install the standard package from 'additional drivers' (aka jockey).
Or (my choice) 'sudo apt-get install fglrx-updates' in terminal.

Everything works fine now.

---

### Post by zlyke on 2011-10-13
Yeah I'm on my way to this fix from the recommended. It became patently clear the old fglrx package was crap as the fglrx-updates package removes the original fglrx package if installed in Synaptic in 2D mode.

---

### Post by zlyke on 2011-10-13
Worked. Cheers, morseafrev!:p

---

### Post by morfeasrev on 2011-10-13
Happy I helped, but especially because this worked for another person except from me.

---

### Post by zlyke on 2011-10-13
Absolutely though naturally the Gnome Shell is screwed to all hell now but that's more AMD's problem than anything else. They're never going to get that right. Happy to have a working Unity again though. Cheers cheers cheers.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-13
I'm not so lucky. I have installed the standard package from "additional drivers" and have got catalyst 11.8 that way.
It gave me bad performance and that ridiculous watermark.
How do i get the open source driver again, or 11.9?

---

### Post by morfeasrev on 2011-10-13
When I installed 11.9 from amd download (the .run thing) thing went way wrong. I`m sure that with fglrx-updates they will release an update for 11.9 and later when it will be sufficiently tested.

If you just want to go to open-source drivers, then
install synaptic and remove any fglrx package installed.

There should be two packages installed:
1) fglrx and 
2) fglrx-amdcccle
or their *-updates counterparts if you got them installed,
Finally your system should fall back to the kernel provided open-source driver.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-14
> 
There should be two packages installed:
1) fglrx and 
2) fglrx-amdcccle
or their *-updates counterparts if you got them installed,
Finally your system should fall back to the kernel provided open-source driver.


Not so lucky here. I tried both through Jockey, Software center and Synaptic. I can get it uninstalled allright, and when i login after reboot, dragging windows around the desktop again looks good, but i lost the unity launcher.
What to do?
I wonder if it is a HD6320 bug?

---

### Post by Cynical on 2011-10-14
> **moteprime said:**
> I can get it uninstalled allright, and when i login after reboot, dragging windows around the desktop again looks good, but i lost the unity launcher.
What to do?
I wonder if it is a HD6320 bug?

No. What's happening here is that the desktop is trying to load the fglrx driver, which it fails to do because it isn't installed, which causes Unity to fail, and then the open source radeon driver is loaded, which is why the desktop looks good. (albeit lacking unity) In order to restore the original driver and have a working unity, follow my instructions in _[this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11343771#post11343771")_

---

### Post by kr0n1x on 2011-10-15
I've just installed Xubuntu 11.10 64bit and I got 2 options available too (the standard 'fglrx' and the 'fglrx post-release'). What should I do if I want my graphic card to give the best performance? Wait for newer fglrx release and keep the open-source driver for now?

Thanks

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-15
@Cynical
Thanks! it worked out just fine, the lag was killing me.
Are there anything i can do about the black flickering that happens every now and the then?


@kr0n1x
I could not get the "post-release" installed.
You can try installing the standard 'fglrx', and just remove it again if you don't like it, using the guide Cynical gave the link to.
In normal desktop environment i think the open-source driver works out the best. But it got some strange black flickering going on.
I am not sure, but maybe AMD's driver are faster for full screen video, but it could be a random observation.

I will wait for now and test 11.9 when it is adapted or tuned to Ubuntu if that is what needs to be done.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-15
@kr0n1x
Hi again.
I have now been running the open-source driver for some hours, and the hole computer works a lot faster than it did with the AMD proprietary driver. -I only use it on Ubuntu 11.10, not Xubuntu, if it makes difference?

---

### Post by Morientes on 2011-10-16
I'm also on the open source driver and it really works well I think!

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-16
Do you also experience that black flickering?
I can provoke it by banging a window, (browser or anything) into the sides of the desktop repeatedly.

---

### Post by markmt1988 on 2011-10-19
There is a bug with the AMD catalyst Driver 11.9. I already contacted AMD. Hopefully this will help you. Its a little bit of a hack.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-20
Do you have a thread somewhere we can participate in?

---

### Post by pingpongmarshall on 2011-10-21
Hi all,

I've also bought few days ago an asus 1215b with the amd apu e-450. I think this graphic card is not yet supported properly... you can see here another opinion : 
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/65674/can-i-install-amd-catalyst-11-9](http://askubuntu.com/questions/65674/can-i-install-amd-catalyst-11-9)
In fact on amd.support they don't have an 'option' for e-450, only for e-350.... I think we have to wait...
PS. I also tried with fedora wich can succesfully install catalyst 11.9, but like the guy in the link, this doesn't work and alwasy showed up ''hardware not supported''.

Greetings to all from Italy, hope to hear some news soon.

---

### Post by efpc2003 on 2011-10-21
amd apu a8-3850 with ati video integrated.
the same.... amd unsupported hardware on my led screen (on 11.04)
ubuntu live cd amd64 11.10 doesn't launch live sesion, no desktop, just black screen, so... i will not upgrade to 11.10

---

### Post by Zulu987 on 2011-10-21
to install the 11.9 drivers you have to do it from the terminal and have it build the packages for your distribution. Using Ubuntu Oneiric just do sudo sh  ati-driver-installer-11-9-x86.x86_64.run --buildandinstallpkg Ubuntu/oneiric. the drivers are fairly buggy and might not work. I'm using an acer laptop with a Radeon 6650 and i have no 3d at all, it does get rid of the unsupported hardware watermark though.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-22
@pingpongmarshall

It is me that have asked the question on Askubuntu. ;-)


To get the opensource driver back, instead of the very buggy AMD driver i followed the link from Cynical in post #13.

The opensource driver are also buggy, but my hole computer runs better after i got rid of AMD's driver, and the desktop runs much more smooth.

As i can figure out for now it looks like the E-250,350 &450 graphics are not yet supported properly. But i hope they will be soon. I have had ATI graphics with Ubuntu before than worked well.

---

### Post by pingpongmarshall on 2011-10-22
@moteprime

I'm also using the opensource drivers and can't watch hd videos, i'm tryng right now to set the driver to use power management...
Do you think are there any chance to have a better support on linux with the proprietary driver? I'd like to watch full hd videos and have acceleration hardware and also good powermanagment.
Otherwise i'm thinking about return it to amazon and buying something with intel-nvidia, there is a mounth of time during wich I can return It (I really think that the apu in a lot better than atom, but I don't want to use windows).
Maybe I'll send an email to amd first, and then wait a bit..

---

### Post by Gart3nzw3rg on 2011-10-23
Hey everyone!

I want to get a Lenovo x121e amd laptop and run ubuntu 11.10 on it. I can choose between the E-350 or the E-450...
I was planning on getting the E-450 version but after reading this I am not sure anymore. I have used ubuntu before but I am not very experienced with linux systems.

What would your recommend me? I am a student and for me a stable and functionally system is more important than performance.

Should I get the E-350 or the E-450 version? Or should I look for a different laptop?

Thanks for any advice :)


P.S. #1st post :grin:

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-23
@pingpongmarshall

Don't forget that i was the one that started this thread because i don't have a clue what's going on... ;-)

I had Linux (mostly Ubuntu) on 4 laptops and 4-5 desktops, and all the laptops (except this one) had Intel graphics, one of the desktops had ATI Radeon, the others had Nvidia. I Have never had these problems before. The ATI card I had was running fine. That said, i think maybe ATI/AMD has a bit of a bad reputation for not making good drivers for Linux, but i can't really say.
But my experience with hardware, especially on laptops, are that when the chips, whatever they are, CPU, GPU or wireless are new, it takes some months maybe half a year before they have good support in linux.
For smaller Laptops/nebooks at the moment, there are only the Intel Atoms and now the AMD APU's, and i cannot imagine that the E series APU's are not going to be supported well in Linux. They got to be planning to put the APU's in all kinds of hardware, and some of it has got to be driven by Linux.
The answer Jack H. gave on AskUbuntu does sound like it is realistic, there must be some graphic drivers coming for the E-450 soon. -Its only been released in august 22.
I don't know if you can get a Intel/nvidia setup that performs as good as the AMD APU's, i can't where I live, until Intel releases the new Atom series. But i think thats not going to happend before sometime next year.
I used the proprietary drive until i found out how to get the open source driver back, and maybe, just maybe, it was a little faster showing full screen videos. ? 720p  or 1080p?

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-23
@Gart3nzw3rg

Hi.
I made a quick check up on the difference on E-350 and E-450 before buying my Lenovo s205 E-405 Laptop, and i think that they are almost the same. The 450 are 10-15% faster than the 350. And where i live it cost 2% extra so i picked the E-450.
The graphics part of the APU are 6310 in the 350 and 6320 in the 450. I don't know if there is a big difference but the Mhz speed in the 450 looks a lot better than in the 350.
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMD_Fusion](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMD_Fusion)

I have not seen a system with a E-350 running Linux, so i don't know if there are any difference in the graphics performance, but when i go to AMD's support page for downloading driver for Linux, the E-450 does not appear only the E-350. so maybe they have not got around to include the 450 yet. it is very new, only two months.

All said, my laptop are very stable and fast. I had no crashes or freezes that i did not cause my self. It it so much faster than the Intel Atom N450 in my old netbook that there are no comparesing at all. The Intel Atoms has a terrible graphics chip which really useless for media.
Only my Wireless driver are giving me trouble, and the graphics are "not yet", performing well.

---

### Post by Gart3nzw3rg on 2011-10-23
@moteprime

Thank you :) That helped me a lot. I think I will stick with the x121e since I really like it. I will also get the e-450 version. As you said, it costs only a little more but has better performance. 

You mentioned problems with the wireless driver. In a German forum about the x121e I read about someone that had problems with the wireless card after having suspended it. He solved it by re-installing it and setting the BIOS to legacy only instead of UEFI only (I dont know what is meant by this). Then he installed the Realtek rtl8192ce driver. After that it seemed to work for him.

I dont know if that helps you at all :)

---

### Post by pingpongmarshall on 2011-10-23
You're right,
I'm going to wait.
Right now I'm installing Win... the last time was 4/5 years ago :D. Hope to don't have to use it a lot, only to have long-life battery.

I'll try soon to get catalyst working on debian whezzy, and post here results.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-23
@Gart3nzw3rg
Unfortunately the s205 has got a RT3090 chip for wireless, and I have not yet figured out how to make it work. -at speeds above 80Kb/sec.

The UEFI bios is a newer BIOS system that is replacing the older BIOS as we know it. Among other things it protects against viruses that writes in the bootloader.
The problem is that the manufactures make them only to look for windows bootloaders and not our Linux bootloaders.....
There are all kinds of workarounds the solves the problem.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-23
@pingpongmarshall

I hope i am... ;-)
It runs really smooth and fast in windows, and in the end Ubuntu always end up running better than Windows. We just need a better graphics driver.
Just look at the geekbench score, mine are the ones that reads 2241 and 2060. :-D

Edit: forgot the link. [http://browse.geekbench.ca/geekbench2/search?q=E-450]("http://browse.geekbench.ca/geekbench2/search?q=E-450")

---

### Post by nitroguy on 2011-10-27
Question about this.

I JUST got my S205 with E-450 processor (like, I installed ubuntu earlier today) and am so far loving it! What a cool laptop!

I, like all, had the requisite issues of installing, wifi drivers, and then graphics drivers. I figured out the first two (google search is my friend here), but am left wondering on the third. Now, I get that this is pretty new hardware, and official drivers from ATI are coming (right? right?). But here's my question:

I followed the instructions in post 13, rebooted, and all works great. From the splash screen showing in the right resolution, to 720p youtube streaming, it works. But, my battery life took a 50% hit, and my fan stays on constantly. Is that what to expect from this stock driver? If so, I'm willing to live with the "unsupported" splash on the bottom right. I guess my question is more of a confirmation - do other people have similar experiences with the stock graphics driver?

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-10-29
I haven't noticed any abnormal battery or fan behaviour while using any of the two drivers.

Pure curiosity, what solutions did you use for installing and wifi? If it's to much off topic, just send me a message.

---

### Post by nitroguy on 2011-10-29
Yeah, I'll keep an eye on battery life. I think Ubuntu is still getting calibrated - I get estimated life of anywhere between 10 hours and 1 hour, usually ending up with around 3.5 to 4. Hopefully a better driver can optimize this, as I'm noticing my fan on more and more.

But to the (offtopic) point:

To get wireless working I did this:
- connect via the wired ethernet port
- apt-get install wicd
- apt-get remove network-manager
- disconnect the wired ethernet port
- rfkill unblock all
- start wicd from the applications menu, then use it to connect to your wireless connection.
(taken from: [http://helms-deep.cable.nu/~rwh/blog/?p=177](http://helms-deep.cable.nu/~rwh/blog/?p=177))

To install, I was attempting to dualboot with 7, starting with a fresh installation of 7 (had to get rid of the stock bloatware that came on it). Unfortunately, best I could tell, it tried to use a different BIOS, or something, causing Ubuntu to declare bad HDD sectors and refusing to install. I ended up removing 7 altogether, and just doing a clean install of Ubuntu, at which point it worked perfectly. If I ever need win7, I'll probably dual boot at that point, but after having Ubuntu on my old laptop for 4  years, and never booting into Vista, I can't see that happening anytime soon. :-)

Hope this helps! And AMD, if you're listening, please update your drivers!!

---

### Post by pingpongmarshall on 2011-11-02
New drivers has been released... i'm trying to build deb packages from the .run script, but it doesn't work.
If someone will try, please let me know how performance is.

Right now i'm running radeon driver, with power managemet setted up and it works quite good.

---

### Post by Bucic on 2011-11-02
> **pingpongmarshall said:**
> i'm trying to build deb packages from the .run script, but it doesn't work.
What for? You just edit the file properties - permissions - allow it to be executed and doubleclick it.

Performance is [like that]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1873564") but my case is weird... :/

---

### Post by bebe_b4 on 2011-11-03
I have managed to install the new Catalyst driver, although with insane amount of PITA. :/ I have followed instructions from [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide) with googling of consequent errors. 

First, the installer was complaining about missing .so file in /usr/share/ati/lib64 . Removing whole dir /usr/share/ati/lib64 helped. 

Then, fglrx*.deb install complained about conflicting with previous versions. Previous version of fglrx prooved to be absolutely unremoveable, due to update-rc.d throwing a warning. I have manually edited file /var/lib/dpkg/info/fglrx.postrm so that the line with update-rc.d read:
```
update-rc.d -f atieventsd remove >/dev/null
```(added -f option).

Uninstall still complained about dirs being not empty, so I have removed dirs /usr/share/ati and /etc/ati completely. 

That did the trick and the driver installed ok. (Remember to generate new /etc/X11/xorg.conf.)

The only visible improvement is no "AMD unsupported hardware" logo. The performance is still less than stellar:
```
bebe@schuttenbach:~$ fglrxinfo 
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: AMD Radeon HD 6320 Graphics
OpenGL version string: 4.1.11161 Compatibility Profile Context

bebe@schuttenbach:~$ fgl
fgl_glxgears  fglrxinfo     
bebe@schuttenbach:~$ fgl_glxgears 
Using GLX_SGIX_pbuffer
1509 frames in 5.0 seconds = 301.800 FPS
1530 frames in 5.0 seconds = 306.000 FPS
1481 frames in 5.0 seconds = 296.200 FPS
1474 frames in 5.0 seconds = 294.800 FPS
bebe@schuttenbach:~$ 
```In the System Info the driver is still reported as VESA: WRESTLER . I'm kind of devoid of any more ideas. :(

I'm using MSI Wind U270 with E-450 and HD6320.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-11-03
There as a discussion going on here.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1873072]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1873072")

According to this [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTAwODg](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTAwODg)

There should be "and 2D performance improvements for the AMD Brazos platform".

So should it not be worth a try?

-Does anybody have an idea about when it will reach the official repos?

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-11-03
I installed Catalyst 11.10 and it definitely runs a lot better than both the open source driver and the old AMD proprietary driver.
It's still not there, but an improvement.

Edit: The launcher seems to have broke somehow. the trash can is always on, the launcher scrolls ok, but cannot do that collapse thing where the icons are pressed together. And the alt+tab function is small and not so cool looking.
And workspace switching also functions "oldstyle".

---

### Post by bebe_b4 on 2011-11-04
Baaad ideas, continued.

I've decided to try and intruduce a workaround for performance issues, namely - turn off the Vsync in compiz. I have installed CCSM, run it, and, to my sheer amazement, whole Unity interface dissappeared. Rebooting, reinstalling unity and ubuntu-desktop didn't help. Turns out there's a bug in compiz doing just that - segfaulting unity. :/ Luckily, switching to Ubuntu 2D and turning on Unity plugin in compiz helped. 

Now, I have no "AMD unsupported hardware" logo and the Unity runs great - everything is smooth as silk, transparency everywhere, I'm expecting pink unicorns to pop out any minute. :)

I have run fgl_glxgears and framerate is even worse than before. :O Strange, given the fact that the interface runs great. I do not expect to play any 3D games anytime soon, so I guess I'll stick to the current state of affairs.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-11-05
@bebe_b4

Is it because i mis the 3D effects that my launcher cannot handle the icons, alt+tab graphics and what i guess are the transparency?
I have installed ccsm and Ubuntu Unity plugin, nothing seems to have changed.

---

### Post by bebe_b4 on 2011-11-05
> **moteprime said:**
> Is it because i mis the 3D effects that my launcher cannot handle the icons, alt+tab graphics and what i guess are the transparency?
I don't know for sure. From my experience, the alt+tab looking "old style" presented itself once, when I actually purged fglrx in order to install new version. This would suggest that you either do not have fglrx running at all or managed to turn off all 3D acceleration. But then again, I'm unable to confirm this for sure.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-11-06
I tried logging in in Ubuntu 2D, and it looked the same, so i probably are running 2D. 
Are there any way to turn 3D on? It sound like you got it right.

---

### Post by Bucic on 2011-11-06
> **bebe_b4 said:**
> I don't know for sure. From my experience, the alt+tab looking "old style" presented itself once, when I actually purged fglrx in order to install new version. This would suggest that you either do not have fglrx running at all or managed to turn off all 3D acceleration. But then again, I'm unable to confirm this for sure.
This (and worse) can happen during a session! Something like a "limited graphics crash" and you loose alttab switcher or windows theming...

---

### Post by bebe_b4 on 2011-11-07
> **moteprime said:**
> Are there any way to turn 3D on? It sound like you got it right.
The only way I know of is choosing Ubuntu/Ubuntu 2D on login screen...

---

### Post by Gart3nzw3rg on 2011-11-10
where can I see what processors are supported by the ATI/AMD proprietary GFLRX graphics driver?
And has anyone any ideas when the E-450 will be supported?

Thanks!

---

### Post by arkeo on 2011-11-11
Same problems here on a C-50 APU.
The biggest issue for me is that the radeon driver keeps the fan going all the time (albeit not at full speed). I wouldn't really mind merely performance differences, but being a netbook I'd need it to be cool(er), and this obviously affects battery life as well...

Installing from "Additional Drivers - post release" doesn't work. I might try via Synaptic the "fglrx updates" (should be Catalyst 11.09 though, and those suck, as the latest entry in the changelog is from Oct 26), or try and see if the ATI 11.10 .run blob finally works...

_Is it safer if I build the .deb packages and try to install those? Would this be easier to undo than just running the installer?_

The fact is, I installed and re-installed dozens of distros and drivers this past month since I bought this netbook, and I'm really tired of command line kung-fu... :(

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-11-11
Same problem on a Vostro 3555 with 6380G.

Horrible performance, even with the 11.10 Catalyst. It is worse with Unity 2D then it is with 3D.
KDE will not enable Compositing unless you turn off OpenGL and switch to Xrender. Then the performance is absolutely unbearable. 
I was able to speed it up a little bit by removing the global menu bar and disabling several of the Window effects in CCSM. 
Compiz is a nightmare. the only thing I want is Window's style Aero Snap.... you know, drag a window to the side of the screen and snap it. No hotkeys. Not the rest of compiz.

Blah... so sad.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-11-15
Catalyst 11.11 just came out

[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English)

Anyone give it a shot yet with a Radeon HD 6XXX Series?

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-11-16
Thanks for the tip!
I installed it right away.
Well, it works.
Unity works. Performance is better, the open source driver are still faster, but not by much.
There are no tearing when watching videos any more, and it can almost show a 720p youtube video smooth. (is it actually possible?).
I would recommend giving it a try, but i think that i will try hanging  on to it for a better impression.
-please ask any question, and i will answer a good as i can.

---

### Post by brighty83 on 2011-11-16
I have just tried the 11.11 driver and its a no go on my HD6320 - If anything i think the tearing through the OS is worse then no driver at all

I have tested the driver with both ubuntu 11.10 and Suse 11.4 - same results on both, i dont get the "unsupported hardware" but performance is not usable

Im also getting a flickering screen in ubuntu, is anyone else on here? i have started a question on launchpad but i have had no replys

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+question/178731](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+question/178731)

I really hope there is a driver that is going to work for this soon!!! (Sony Vaio VPCYB36KG)

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-11-16
> I have just tried the 11.11 driver and its a no go on my HD6320 - If anything i think the tearing through the OS is worse then no driver at all

You are right its still far from good enough, but for me anyway, better than before.
I have subscribed to your question on launchpad.net, and hope that a usable answer will come.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-11-16
I had tearing on my computer as well. Radeon 6380G.
I found the problem related to the Catalyst and the verison of openGL that is used by compiz. Even Unity 2D showed some slowing.

To fix this I installed libgl1-mesa-swx11
This removed the other opengl versions and also crippled Unity 3D and gnome-shell. However Unity 2D is running much much faster and everything is extremely smooth. The only thing that I miss is the aero snap. The rest of Unity 3D does not matter to me.

---

### Post by pingpongmarshall on 2011-11-16
Hi guys,
recently I've installed 11.10 on debian wheezy (apu e-450 and gnome2). It was a little bit tricky (dowgrade xserver) but now all seems to work better (with powerplay, my battery lasts more) and I can watch 720p videos. Suspend doesn't work (with opensource drivers it does).

Maybe I'll try the 11.11 some day, I'd like to enable suspend option.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-11-16
> **pingpongmarshall said:**
> Hi guys,
recently I've installed 11.10 on debian wheezy (apu e-450 and gnome2). It was a little bit tricky (dowgrade xserver) but now all seems to work better (with powerplay, my battery lasts more) and I can watch 720p videos. Suspend doesn't work (with opensource drivers it does).

Maybe I'll try the 11.11 some day, I'd like to enable suspend option.

Suspend did not work on Squeeze for me.

On Oneiric with 11.11 my battery lasts about 4 hours.

---

### Post by arkeo on 2011-11-16
Tried the 11.11 drivers on Oneiric, I have a C-50 based netbook. Installation (and uninstall) went smooth, but the performance was terrible, maybe actually worse than the open source driver (I'm talking about 720p video, not 3D) and of course suspend wouldn't work.

I'm back on the open source drivers... I've read on Phoronix that 11.12 should be a major milestone in terms of performance and reliability. One can always hope...

---

### Post by hramrach on 2011-12-18
for me 11.12 fglrx installs and runs on e-450

The 3D is garbage (as in rainbow static noise)

opensource drivers run (at least he ones from xorg-edgers ppa if you avoid installing the cairo package from there)

The 3D is a few times faster as software rendering - (as in decent speed slideshow).

The card has enough power to run basic 3D as can be demonstrated by installing the Windows 8 developer preview but I could not find any working Linux drivers.

---

### Post by atkhan007 on 2011-12-18
I am also one of the few unlucky ones who ordered asus 1215b netbook for christmas (i did tons of research before buying it) wihtout realizing that its crap for linux. I have done some hardcore testing on Ubuntu and many other linux distros but everything lacks ... 

The graphic problem is the first , cant even run unity smoothly , had to turn to unity-2d and on that its not properly running video streams from youtube or anyother flash site (lots of lag). it manage to run some (not 720p) videos from harddrive, i tried all sorts of drivers open source , fglrx from jockey , x-edgers etc... then comes the battery issue ... on ubuntu the netbook stays for max 4 hrs (3.53 exact) in the course of web browsing on wifi. i did installed other laptop mode tools as well but nothing.

then i gave up and installed windows 7 after 2 weeks, everything worked like charm, its like a mew computer, i can do 720p streams , battery lasts 6+ hrs.

I am sad to say this, but i m really disappointed from this experience. I am the one who was pushing for linux in my (windows/OSX dominated) circle of friends and then i myself had to turn away from linux. I only hope that someone realize this and pushes companies for opensource drivers.

---

### Post by arkeo on 2011-12-19
> **atkhan007 said:**
> I am sad to say this, but i m really disappointed from this experience. I am the one who was pushing for linux in my (windows/OSX dominated) circle of friends and then i myself had to turn away from linux. I only hope that someone realize this and pushes companies for opensource drivers.

Same here on an Acer Aspire One 522 (C-50): I gave up on Linux on this one. Hell, even Windows 8 DP is light years more functional AND stable than any distro I've tried on this baby.

I was going to say "especially with APU based notebooks/netbooks, where performance and power consumption optimizations are essential, AMD should really get its act together, and either release full specs so that the community can build good open source drivers, or if it doesn't want to do that at least AMD should release solid, decent, and **tested** Catalyst drivers (*still* no GNOME3??? It's been out since forever!!!)" -- but then I realized that almost the entire AMD lineup is going Fusion (CPU+GPU), so I really wonder whether in the near future all of AMD fans/users will be doomed to a horribly poor linux experience... [-o<

I'll endure Win8 through the DP and the public Beta, then (1 year from now? Almost two years after my netbook came to market??) I'll try some more distro-inferno... ](*,)

On a side note, I'm having huge issues with my AMD/ATI desktop as well... For the first time I'm seriously considering Intel/nVIDIA for my next build... :shock:

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-19
ATI is a nightmare. 

I tried 11.12 and I was disappointed.

It made things worse.

Radeon HD 6380G

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-19
Okay just did something awesome.

So far the fglrx-updates are working the best.

I installed compiz config settings manager

ran it

go to opengl settings

disable sync to vblank

enable tear free in catalyst config

restart X

soooooooooo much better

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-12-21
@collisionystm
What driver is it that you are using ver. 11.12 of?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-21
> **moteprime said:**
> @collisionystm
What driver is it that you are using ver. 11.12 of?

no im not using official 11.12

I did

sudo apt-get install fglrx-updates

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-12-23
@collisionystm
Thanks. -What happend to the version numbers, wasn't it just 10.10?
But i installed 11.12 and after disabling that "Sync to Vblank" it got better. -still not perfect, but better.
I think for the first time i am now actually able to use the proprietary driver.
Thanks.

---

### Post by Topoide on 2011-12-27
I followed all you tips and instructions in order to get all the potential of that APU (e-450) in my asus 1215b without full success. Today I've found a guide that gave me an incredible TOTAL functionality of the APU. They give instructions to install the official AMD driver, configure and test it.

The link: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Debian](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Debian)

It worked for me (I use Kubuntu 11.10, and think it could work with Ubuntu too).

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-12-28
@Topoide
How many FPS do you get from fgl_glxgears ?
I get about 60 FPS on my Lenovo s205 with E-450.

---

### Post by Topoide on 2011-12-28
> **moteprime said:**
> @Topoide
How many FPS do you get from fgl_glxgears ?
I get about 60 FPS on my Lenovo s205 with E-450.

Hi moteprime. I get about 260 FPS. Remember the fact that I use Kubuntu...but it should be the same for Ubuntu. I have an Asus eee 1215B with E-450 (ATI HD 6320).

---

### Post by Topoide on 2011-12-28
I must say that I have installed the driver after a fresh install of the SO (a format)..I mean, without trying another method (the ones descripted here) before.
I did that because I screwed up my system trying possible solutions, so I had to format.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-28
> **moteprime said:**
> @Topoide
How many FPS do you get from fgl_glxgears ?
I get about 60 FPS on my Lenovo s205 with E-450.

You will get 60 FPS because with Tear Free enabled the fps will sync to your refresh rate. disable tear free and you will see fps of 3000 and higher

---

### Post by Topoide on 2011-12-28
> **collisionystm said:**
> You will get 60 FPS because with Tear Free enabled the fps will sync to your refresh rate. disable tear free and you will see fps of 3000 and higher

It's true, I put enable in tear free and now have 60 FPS.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-12-29
I "Disable Tear Free Desktop" in Catalyst Control Center, but still a get only 60 FPS. Is it the same place you do it?
Are there any noticeable differences in desktop appearance and performance with or without tearfree ?
 

```

fgl_glxgears
Using GLX_SGIX_pbuffer
299 frames in 5.0 seconds = 59.800 FPS
297 frames in 5.0 seconds = 59.400 FPS
302 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.400 FPS
300 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.000 FPS
301 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.200 FPS

```

---

### Post by Topoide on 2011-12-29
> **moteprime said:**
> I "Disable Tear Free Desktop" in Catalyst Control Center, but still a get only 60 FPS. Is it the same place you do it?
Are there any noticeable differences in desktop appearance and performance with or without tearfree ?
 

```

fgl_glxgears
Using GLX_SGIX_pbuffer
299 frames in 5.0 seconds = 59.800 FPS
297 frames in 5.0 seconds = 59.400 FPS
302 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.400 FPS
300 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.000 FPS
301 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.200 FPS

```

Yes, that is the place. There isn't much difference with or without tearfree, maybe the action of moving a window is more fluent.
Try removing all the ati drivers and installing the new ones (privatives, downloaded of ati page) following the instructions in the link that I gave.

Today I had a new problem, but related with another driver. I saw a page with instructions to install OpenGL ES (package name: kde-window-manager-gles). So, after installing this, my computer seemed to behave as before (with all the original problems wich are the reason of this thread: strange graphic behavior, no effects in kwin, etc). So, if you have this package installed, try uninstalling it...this solved the problem automatically for me. I didn't try the FPS with this driver installed.

Hope this solve your problem!.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-29
> **moteprime said:**
> I "Disable Tear Free Desktop" in Catalyst Control Center, but still a get only 60 FPS. Is it the same place you do it?
Are there any noticeable differences in desktop appearance and performance with or without tearfree ?
 

```

fgl_glxgears
Using GLX_SGIX_pbuffer
299 frames in 5.0 seconds = 59.800 FPS
297 frames in 5.0 seconds = 59.400 FPS
302 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.400 FPS
300 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.000 FPS
301 frames in 5.0 seconds = 60.200 FPS

```

Did you disable sync to vblank in ccsm

---

### Post by moteprime on 2011-12-29
> Did you disable sync to vblank in ccsm
Yes i did, as described in an earlier post it seems to increase performance. Does it conflict with Tearfree option?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-29
> **moteprime said:**
> Yes i did, as described in an earlier post it seems to increase performance. Does it conflict with Tearfree option?

This is not entirely accurate, because its just my guess.
BUT

sync to vblank seems to be OpenGL's 'tear free' so to speak. 

tear free enables a vsync telling the GPU to sync to the refresh rate of the monitor.
That way it is not rendering images faster than the screen can produce them, thus resulting in "tearing"

OpenGL's sync to vblank checks itself against the GPU

I was reading this

[http://www.opengl.org/wiki/Swap_Interval#Idiosyncrasies](http://www.opengl.org/wiki/Swap_Interval#Idiosyncrasies)

> Vsync without glFinish: SwapBuffers() commands the GPU to swap front and back buffers. This command is typically treated like any other GL command, and is executed by the GPU asynchronously from the CPU. As such, the CPU rendering thread does not block and is free to continue rendering and queuing subsequent frames, potentially at a higher rate than vertical refresh. While this maximizes throughput, it creates a scenario where several frames are queued and awaiting buffer swap. A newly generated frame will not actually become visible until after all frames queued ahead of it are swapped, thus creating a visible transport delay.

From what I understand, the CPU on your computer is rendering the data faster than your GPU can handle it. So in cases of Radeon HD, Intel Sandy bridge, that are part of the CPU itself, there seems to be some kind of traffic jam.

So be removing opengl's syncing option, letting it work at full speed and just setting the GPU to sync to the refresh rate of the monitor, we seem to have created an equal balance. 

I guess this is not the way openGL was originally designed to work, but.... it works.

---

### Post by railen5 on 2011-12-30
> **morfeasrev said:**
> Just install the standard package from 'additional drivers' (aka jockey).
Or (my choice) 'sudo apt-get install fglrx-updates' in terminal.

Everything works fine now.
I have this same problem, I dual boot on all of my computers but I just was given a new laptop for Christmas and I tried Ubuntu from a thumbdrive as well as using wubi installer and the screen goes black after boot up. If I cannot access the terminal how can I install any drivers? Also will installing different drivers for the same graphics card have a negative effect on the preinstalled drivers that windows 7 uses? One more note, I have noticed that the Linux Distro, Debian Live works normally on this AMD graphics card.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-30
> **railen5 said:**
> I have this same problem, I dual boot on all of my computers but I just was given a new laptop for Christmas and I tried Ubuntu from a thumbdrive as well as using wubi installer and the screen goes black after boot up. If I cannot access the terminal how can I install any drivers? Also will installing different drivers for the same graphics card have a negative effect on the preinstalled drivers that windows 7 uses? One more note, I have noticed that the Linux Distro, Debian Live works normally on this AMD graphics card.



If your screen goes black

you need to boot your live usb/cd, while its booting keep tapping the UP arrow key so you can get to the menu.

Press F6 and choose nomodeset

boot the system.

It will reach and endpoint

you must switch to tty2 

CTRL + ALT + F2

type

sudo apt-get remove xserver-xorg-video-radeon

sudo lightdm start

install like normal

when finished and system reboots

keep tapping Up arrow key

at the grub menu

press E to edit the line

go down to the 3rd? line i think, to the left of where it says splash type

nomodeset

hit F10 I think to boot. it says it at the bottom.

once in, 

sudo apt-get install fglrx-updates

reboot like normal

---

### Post by railen5 on 2011-12-30
> **morfeasrev said:**
> Just install the standard package from 'additional drivers' (aka jockey).
Or (my choice) 'sudo apt-get install fglrx-updates' in terminal.

Everything works fine now.
Thanks I will try this when i get home and post results

---

### Post by cafeschintze on 2011-12-31
> **Topoide said:**
> I followed all you tips and instructions in order to get all the potential of that APU (e-450) in my asus 1215b without full success. Today I've found a guide that gave me an incredible TOTAL functionality of the APU. They give instructions to install the official AMD driver, configure and test it.

The link: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Debian](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Debian)

It worked for me (I use Kubuntu 11.10, and think it could work with Ubuntu too).

I tried this and ran it for a couple of days after reading your post.
Getting all the potential from that GPU is not what it got me though. 
Just like with the radeon divers chosing ubuntu2D at the login prompt of unity helps for the smootheness of windows moving and such. But its still in my opinion far away from releasing all the power of that GPU. I switched back to radeon as the catalyst driver gave me trouble with dual monitor setup and no other advantage. BEsides the fan is still on all the time.

I think we have to wait a bit longer.

---

### Post by railen5 on 2011-12-31
> **railen5 said:**
> Thanks I will try this when i get home and post results
I have tried your advice but still just get a black screen, I can hear Ubuntu starting to run...I hear the music tone...but I did try tapping the up arrow key....tapping the up arrow key and nothing happens..system just continues normal boot but has a black screen

---

### Post by Frickson on 2012-01-02
> **collisionystm said:**
> Okay just did something awesome.

So far the fglrx-updates are working the best.

I installed compiz config settings manager

ran it

go to opengl settings

disable sync to vblank

enable tear free in catalyst config

restart X

soooooooooo much better

Worked for me too [eeePC 1215b with ATI Radeon 6320 HD], thanks!! :D

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-01-02
> **railen5 said:**
> I have tried your advice but still just get a black screen, I can hear Ubuntu starting to run...I hear the music tone...but I did try tapping the up arrow key....tapping the up arrow key and nothing happens..system just continues normal boot but has a black screen

you have to do it quickly. very quickly.

try holding the shift key during boot.

---

### Post by silverhaze06 on 2012-01-07
> **railen5 said:**
> I have tried your advice but still just get a black screen, I can hear Ubuntu starting to run...I hear the music tone...but I did try tapping the up arrow key....tapping the up arrow key and nothing happens..system just continues normal boot but has a black screen

I had the same problem when I first installed 11.10. my workaround to this was plugging my computer into my tv via the hdmi out. Then I was able see everything and activate the drivers. Once they were activated it started working for me right away.

---

### Post by silverhaze06 on 2012-01-07
> **collisionystm said:**
> Okay just did something awesome.

So far the fglrx-updates are working the best.

I installed compiz config settings manager

ran it

go to opengl settings

disable sync to vblank

enable tear free in catalyst config

restart X

soooooooooo much better

I just tried that and now videos and 3D graphics play a lot smoother than before. Thanks!

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-01-26
Just installed Catalyst rev. 12.1
It works fine and performance seems to be further improved.

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-01-26
> **moteprime said:**
> Just installed Catalyst rev. 12.1
It works fine and performance seems to be further improved.

Same here.

Tim

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-01-26
I have this feeling that everything reacts quicker after the upgrade, not only the graphics.

---

### Post by FakenMC on 2012-01-26
It does feel better, but regarding HD movie playback, still much worse than Windows :(

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-01-26
Now that 12.1 has 'production support' I wont be surprised to see it in the precise repo's soon. 

Thank god.

---

### Post by nitroguy on 2012-01-27
> **moteprime said:**
> Just installed Catalyst rev. 12.1
It works fine and performance seems to be further improved.

Mote-

Not sure if you remember me, but I had big time installation issues a few months back. Well, Windows broke on me (surprise, surprise), so I used that as an excuse to try Ubuntu again. Lo, it worked! But, I too am having the same graphics issues described in this thread. Could you please elaborate a bit on how, exactly, you installed 12.1 Catalyst? I've simply clicked the check next to "additional drivers", only to have "Unsupported hardware" on all my documents. :-(

Thanks! As always, any help is greatly appreciated!!

nitroguy

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-01-28
@nitroguy, I always get perfect results when I follow the instructions in Post #4 of this thread. Note that the name of the file you download from ATI is now different, but other than that, everything is exactly the same.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1873072](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1873072)

Tim

---

### Post by MoreOrLess on 2012-01-28
> **FakenMC said:**
> It does feel better, but regarding HD movie playback, still much worse than Windows :(
Did you try the new xbmc that actually has hardware acceleration?

---

### Post by FakenMC on 2012-01-28
Hi MoreOrLess,

No, I tried full HD clips in Youtube with Chrome and Firefox, and some movies I have on the computer  (all of which work perfectly on Windows). Could you please give some for information about that xbmc?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by MoreOrLess on 2012-01-28
> **FakenMC said:**
> Hi MoreOrLess,

No, I tried full HD clips in Youtube with Chrome and Firefox, and some movies I have on the computer  (all of which work perfectly on Windows). Could you please give some for information about that xbmc?

Thanks in advance!
[https://launchpad.net/~wsnipex/+archive/xbmc-xvba](https://launchpad.net/~wsnipex/+archive/xbmc-xvba)

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-01-29
Arghh. Somethings wrong here.
Half the time i can not get it to wake up after suspend. Just black screen, and i have to cold shut it down and disconnect the power plug to get i alive again. Anybody else, or suggestions?

---

### Post by FakenMC on 2012-01-29
> [https://launchpad.net/~wsnipex/+archive/xbmc-xvba](https://launchpad.net/~wsnipex/+archive/xbmc-xvba)
Problems with compiz and unity :(
Thanks anyway ;)

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-01-29
> **moteprime said:**
> Arghh. Somethings wrong here.
Half the time i can not get it to wake up after suspend. Just black screen, and i have to cold shut it down and disconnect the power plug to get i alive again. Anybody else, or suggestions?

same happens to me time to time.

Its the kernel.

When I ran precise for a week or so I never had any issues.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-01-30
@nitroguy
Sorry i did not see your post, don't know how i missed it. -and i do remember you!

I see others have all ready answered your question, but I'll answer anyway.
Go here and get the driver
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English)

and also get the release notes, just under the headlines.

It's not a problem getting the driver installed, but mostly getting older driver uinstalled/removed.
I usually follow the steps in the release notes.


> 
1 Launch the Terminal Application/Window.
2 With superuser permissions, enter the command "aticonfig --uninstall".

Note: Alternatively, uninstall can be launched with superuser
permissions using the following commands as well
sh ati-driver-installer-x86.x86_64.run --uninstall
sh /usr/share/ati/amd-uninstall.sh


The "amd-uninstall.sh" script usually works the best for me.
But these scripts sometimes doesn't work propertly so i also purge as described in the link ratcheer posted.

```
sudo apt-get --purge remove fglrx*
```

The you install the driver as described in the release notes.
> 
1 Launch the Terminal Application/Window and navigate to the AMD Catalyst proprietary driver download.
2 Enter the command sh ./ati-driver-installer-x86.x86_64.run to launch the AMD Catalyst proprietary driver installer.

Don't try to be creative and select anything  other than default during the AMD setup, it allways ends up bad.. ;-)
Find the "Sync to Vblank" in CCSM uder OpenGL and disable it.
Hope it's what you need.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-01-30
> **moteprime said:**
> @nitroguy
Sorry i did not see your post, don't know how i missed it. -and i do remember you!

I see others have all ready answered your question, but I'll answer anyway.
Go here and get the driver
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English)

and also get the release notes, just under the headlines.

It's not a problem getting the driver installed, but mostly getting older driver uinstalled/removed.
I usually follow the steps in the release notes.




The "amd-uninstall.sh" script usually works the best for me.
But these scripts sometimes doesn't work propertly so i also purge as described in the link ratcheer posted.

```
sudo apt-get --purge remove fglrx*
```

The you install the driver as described in the release notes.

Don't try to be creative and select anything  other than default during the AMD setup, it allways ends up bad.. ;-)
Find the "Sync to Vblank" in CCSM uder OpenGL and disable it.
Hope it's what you need.


Dont forget to do 2 other things

after install the amd driver

run

sudo aticonfig --initial -f

AND, after changing OpenGL in CCSM open catalyst control center, click on display ( left side column ) enable tear free

---

### Post by MoreOrLess on 2012-01-30
> **moteprime said:**
> The you install the driver as described in the release notes.

No. Build packages. They uninstall more cleanly than using the generic uninstall script. See: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Installing_Catalyst_Manually_.28from_AMD.2FATI.27s_site.29](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Installing_Catalyst_Manually_.28from_AMD.2FATI.27s_site.29)

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-01-30
> **MoreOrLess said:**
> No. Build packages. They uninstall more cleanly than using the generic uninstall script. See: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Installing_Catalyst_Manually_.28from_AMD.2FATI.27s_site.29](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Installing_Catalyst_Manually_.28from_AMD.2FATI.27s_site.29)

I never build packages.

.. Never had an issue.

EXCEPT after a kernel upgrade you have to re-install the driver and re-run aticonfig --initial -f

When you build the packages, do you still need to re-install after every kernel update?

---

### Post by MoreOrLess on 2012-01-30
No rebuild is needed if you have dkms package installed.

---

### Post by nitroguy on 2012-01-31
Well, good news indeed! I got it to work! Luckily for me, I had only installed the "Additional Drivers" portion, so I simply unclicked "Activate", rebooted, and all old drivers were removed. (Or, so I think. After reboot, the "Unsupported" splash went away. Is there something additional I should look out for?)

As far as performance goes, not sure I'm seeing a benefit. For reference, my benchmark is hulu streaming at 480p. I can do it small, but full-screen is unbearably choppy. In Windows (I know, I know) it worked great. Is there a setting I'm missing, or do I just give up the "full screen movie" functionality when enjoying all the other benefits of Ubuntu?

collisionystm- I didn't change openGL in CCSM. If I'm honest, I've heard too many horror stories of CCSM and Unity that I'm scared to open it (despite downloading it last week). Do I need to finally brake the *dreaded monster* to adjust a video playback setting with my new graphics driver?

And mote - the fact that you remember me... I hope it's not because I was negatively burned in your memory! ;-)

As always, thanks all!

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-01-31
@nitroguy
LOL. No negativity, welcome back on Ubuntu. :-)

Just install CCSM disable the "Sync to Vblank" and don't mess with anything and you will be fine. Disabling Sync to Vblank does make i huge difference!

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-01-31
I just tried the new catalyst driver available from the AMD website...

happy to report that on a Radeon HD 6380G that I do not have to enable Tear free in catalyst. Only disable sync to vblank in OpenGL.

---

### Post by nitroguy on 2012-02-02
It works! Certainly not as efficiently as in Windows where I'd get approximately 25% CPU usage while playing back 480p streaming videos - here it's pegged at 100%. However, full screen playback is actually an option, and the jitters aren't there. Definitely an improvement - thanks all!

To recap, here's what I did on my 11.10 Lenovo S205:
-remove all video drivers installed after a fresh Ubuntu installation 
-Installed Catalyst 12.1
-Disabled Tear-Free in Catalyst
-Enabled Sync to VBlank in CCSM

Thanks to all who helped!!

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-02
> **nitroguy said:**
> It works! Certainly not as efficiently as in Windows where I'd get approximately 25% CPU usage while playing back 480p streaming videos - here it's pegged at 100%. However, full screen playback is actually an option, and the jitters aren't there. Definitely an improvement - thanks all!

To recap, here's what I did on my 11.10 Lenovo S205:
-remove all video drivers installed after a fresh Ubuntu installation 
-Installed Catalyst 12.1
-Disabled Tear-Free in Catalyst
-Enabled Sync to VBlank in CCSM

Thanks to all who helped!!


-Disabled Tear-Free in Catalyst
-Enabled Sync to VBlank in CCSM



Switch those 2 around lol


In fact... try having them both disabled and see if it helps.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-02-03
@nitroguy. :-)
Yes switch the two...

I have not had problems with my s205 coming back after suspend before upgrading to 12.1, and also it has started freezing ones and while on my. -Any of you guys have these problems after upgrading?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-03
> **moteprime said:**
> @nitroguy. :-)
Yes switch the two...

I have not had problems with my s205 coming back after suspend before upgrading to 12.1, and also it has started freezing ones and while on my. -Any of you guys have these problems after upgrading?


I have had suspend problems since Kernel 3.0.0-15

Dont worry... I ran precise for a week or so and had NO suspend problems at all. In fact the system ran GREAT but I was just got annoyed with kernel crashes every 10 seconds lol. Fear not... 12.04 will be the answer to the problem us AMD guys have. Even though we may have to futz around a little to get the catalyst driver going

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-03
My wife has a Sony Vaio and I just loaded 11.10. It would not suspend at all! To fix that I added acpi_sleep=nonvs in /etc/default/grub. Ran update-grub and voila! Works like a champ. Tried that on my amd hardware... no such luck lol.

---

### Post by nitroguy on 2012-02-07
> **collisionystm said:**
> -Disabled Tear-Free in Catalyst
-Enabled Sync to VBlank in CCSM



Switch those 2 around lol


In fact... try having them both disabled and see if it helps.

Yeah, Yeah, I never was good on the details. :D

Can't wait to try out 12.04! Unfortunately, I need some degree of stability, so I'll wait a bit until at least a later beta, if not the actual release. Alpha's just a bit too risky for me. (See attention-to-details post above) :-)

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-08
> **nitroguy said:**
> Yeah, Yeah, I never was good on the details. :D

Can't wait to try out 12.04! Unfortunately, I need some degree of stability, so I'll wait a bit until at least a later beta, if not the actual release. Alpha's just a bit too risky for me. (See attention-to-details post above) :-)


lol I went back to precise. Lots of crashes...

BUT on the good side, much better performance! Oh and suspend works everytime

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-02-09
Good to hear, i'm looking forward to it, living without suspend are driving me nuts. I did try going back to 3.0.0-14. I had suspend working fine there, but i doesn't now, so i suspect the AMD driver to be coursing it. also i now have sporative lockups where every thing freezes up.

---

### Post by nitroguy on 2012-02-09
So, are you suggesting that 12.04 will fix the high CPU usage from the graphics when playing back video, or just that Suspend will no longer be broken? To have both would be ... AMAZING!!

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-09
> **nitroguy said:**
> So, are you suggesting that 12.04 will fix the high CPU usage from the graphics when playing back video, or just that Suspend will no longer be broken? To have both would be ... AMAZING!!

I would say there is a very good chance you will be happy with the results :KS

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
> **zlyke said:**
> Bump. I also have an AMD HD 6xxx series card. The 11.9 proprietary driver no longer works with Unity. The Unity Shell and launcher do not appear in Ubuntu 11.10. 64-bit 11.10 as well. It is seemingly booting in 2D mode regardless of whether or not I pick full Unity or 2D Unity. 

At least a direction with which driver works best would be much appreciated.

Thank you.

Edit:

I have tried reinstalling the driver but when the proprietary driver is installed it will not load past the splash screen on a normal boot. I have to back into recovery, force an uninstall of the AMD / ATI proprietary driver before I can get back into a DE.
Same issue here, not loading past splash screen. I think this could be a bug. 
Edit: btw I installed according to this tutorial:[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Debian#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx ]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Debian#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx")

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-10
> **jonnyboysmithy said:**
> Same issue here, not loading past splash screen. I think this could be a bug. 
Edit: btw I installed according to this tutorial:[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Debian#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx ]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Debian#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx")


after you install the driver it is very important to open a terminal and

sudo aticonfig --initial

this will replace the xorg.conf file with the correct one.

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
> **collisionystm said:**
> after you install the driver it is very important to open a terminal and

sudo aticonfig --initial

this will replace the xorg.conf file with the correct one.
I did that it didn't give any errors.
After that all I get is a scrambled splash screen. Then I have to go to recovery mode and tell it to make a default configuration. because if I get it to make a configuration for my hardware I get a scrambled splash screen.](*,)
A bug?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-10
> **jonnyboysmithy said:**
> I did that it didn't give any errors.
After that all I get is a scrambled splash screen. Then I have to go to recovery mode and tell it to make a default configuration. because if I get it to make a configuration for my hardware I get a scrambled splash screen.](*,)
A bug?


so just to double check

you downloaded the driver from here

[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx)

Then you made the file executable

chmod +x amd-driver-installer-12-1-x86.x86_64.run

Then ran it

sudo ./amd-driver-installer-12-1-x86.x86_64.run

You chose express, let it install

ran sudo aticonfig --initial

rebooted

... just checking.........

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
Exactly that, but I compiled for my system ```
sudo sh ./amd-driver-installer-12-1-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/natty
```ran aticonfig --initial and ended up with a scrambled boot screen.
I had it working on integrated gpu  but then when I told it to switch graphics: aticonfig --px-dgpu and restarted it: it scrambled the splash screen.
I have tried aticonfig --initial and then telling it to switch to integrated and then restarting I ended up with two artifacts at the top of the screen after the splash screen.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-10
> **jonnyboysmithy said:**
> Exactly that, but I compiled for my system ```
sudo sh ./amd-driver-installer-12-1-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/natty
```

try it without compiling. I have never compiled and have had zero issues.

Purge your fglrx first or if you want to, install with the --force option

by the way, you do not need to include sh with ./

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
Ok.
I'll purge using [this guide.]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Debian")
EDIT: purged OK
        restarted OK
        Installing now.. OK
sudo aticonfig --initial OK
restart...
scrambled boot screen. if i switch between tty1 and go back to graphical its as if it refreshes. strange? mouse still moves normal though.

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
Anything else I can try?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-10
What model card do you have

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
> **collisionystm said:**
> What model card do you have
ATI HD6740m on  HP DV6-6023TX with i5 2410

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-10
so I am reading and It seems kernel 3.0.0.0-15 is really buggy and has caused your same issue with others.

You could try updating to kernel 3.2

I am however looking for some kind of grub entry that we could use to fix your problem....

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-10
your laptop has switch-able graphics?

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
Yup, got switchable graphics.
I'm running kernel 2.6.38-13-generic

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
Maybe try kernel 3.2?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-10
You could try...

[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/01/install-upgrade-to-linux-kernel-3-2-in-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/01/install-upgrade-to-linux-kernel-3-2-in-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/)

It says oneiric but it will still work

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
> **collisionystm said:**
> You could try...

[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/01/install-upgrade-to-linux-kernel-3-2-in-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/01/install-upgrade-to-linux-kernel-3-2-in-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/)

It says oneiric but it will still work
Downloading.. about 40minutes.
Will let you know how it goes

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-10
> **jonnyboysmithy said:**
> Downloading.. about 40minutes.
Will let you know how it goes

sweetttt 

make sure to re-install your amd drivers once you boot into 3.2.. oh and run aticonfig again lol

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
Lol 40 minutes later it still gonna take another 30+ minutes
I LOVE my connection speed!! (SARCASM :P )

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-10
Ok, the new kernel runs nicely.
I restarted and purged then reinstalled the driver as before. (AND remebered to run aticonfig)
No go. Still getting scrambled splash screen.;)

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-11
> **jonnyboysmithy said:**
> Ok, the new kernel runs nicely.
I restarted and purged then reinstalled the driver as before. (AND remebered to run aticonfig)
No go. Still getting scrambled splash screen.;)


aarrrrgggggghhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh

Is there an option in your bios to completely disable the intel card?

I read on another forum that you may see a 'windows xp mode' in the bios

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-12
Sorry for the long reply delay. No such option. I can't find anything related to graphics or xp mode.
I'm experimenting with older distributions hoping it will work.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-02-16
Well, enough allready with 12.1
I went back to 11.12. And the one or twice a day freezes and suspend problems stopped.

---

### Post by markackerman8@gmail.com on 2012-02-17
This reply is hoping some one from this well read thread can help me with my HP Envy-2195ca - arghhhhh here are my notes (as long as they are)

For 2 months and over 100 hours, I have been trying to get my new HP Envy 2195ca Laptop working with Ubuntu using the Switchable discrete AMD/ATI HD 6850m graphics card and not the embedded Intel hd3000 low end card,  with no success.  I think perhaps I am missing something basic and don't know what it is???   Here is what I have tried (part thereof) :
&#8227; Installed using additional drivers - seemingly successfully - ie. says enabled, and active and green dot, but
• running ATI's CCC gives:
&#8728; There was a problem initializing Catalyst Control Center Linux edition.  It could be caused by the following.
&#8728; No AMD graphics driver is installed, or the AMD driver is not functioning properly.
&#8728; Please install the AMD driver appropriate for you AMD hardware, or configure using aticonfig.
&#8227; Installed from the amd website:    amd-driver-installer-12-1-x86.x86_64.run, (previous version over the past 2 months as well)
• sudo apt-get install ia32-libs
• created the 3 debian packages seemingly successfully and installed all three:
&#8728; fglrx_8.930-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb,    plus 2 similarly named ones
• For the first time using 12.1 today I seemingly successfully ran:
&#8728; aticonfig --initial -f, with no errors  BUTTTTTT
&#8227; after a reboot just a black screen with a few tiny white dots flicking around
• and safe mode works fine
• I can get back into Ubuntu Normal mode by deleting 
&#8728; /etc/X11/xorg.conf (perhaps I just need the right file contents for switchable graphics)
&#8227; Again PLEASE HELP. and Thanks in advance
&#8227; Here is some additional information 
• lspci -nn | grep VGA
&#8728; 00:02.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family Integrated Graphics Controller [8086:0116] (rev 09)
&#8728; 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc Broadway [ATI Mobility Radeon HD 6800 Series] [1002:68a8]
• Recommended configuration for X.org
&#8728; No configuration is necessary for ATI driver in the modern versions of Ubuntu. You can safely take away your xorg.conf and your computer will run fine. 
•     To see if your driver uses KMS (Kernel Mode Setting), run command 
&#8728; ack@Arawn:~$ dmesg | grep drm
[    9.153946] [drm] Initialized drm 1.1.0 20060810
[    9.400960] [drm] MTRR allocation failed.  Graphics performance may suffer.
[    9.402250] [drm] Supports vblank timestamp caching Rev 1 (10.10.2010).
[    9.402255] [drm] Driver supports precise vblank timestamp query.
[   13.040646] fbcon: inteldrmfb (fb0) is primary device
[   13.040932] fb0: inteldrmfb frame buffer device
[   13.040935] drm: registered panic notifier
[   13.049332] [drm] Initialized i915 1.6.0 20080730 for 0000:00:02.0 on minor 0


• vgaswitcheroo 
&#8728; Never has worked and probably because there is NEVER a file called
&#8227; /sys/kernel/debug/vgaswitcheroo/switch
&#8227; root@Arawn:/home/ack# echo DIGD > /sys/kernel/debug/vgaswitcheroo/switch
• bash: /sys/kernel/debug/vgaswitcheroo/switch: No such file or directory
&#8728; root@Arawn:/home/ack# grep -i switcheroo /boot/config-3.0.*
&#8227; /boot/config-3.0.0-16-generic:CONFIG_VGA_SWITCHEROO=y
&#8728; To test if vga_switcheroo is enabled, look for the switch file: 
&#8227; ls -l /sys/kernel/debug/vgaswitcheroo/switch
• ls: cannot access /sys/kernel/debug/vgaswitcheroo/switch: No such file or directory
&#8728; never once had this switch file with or without open source/fglrx/ or no driver at all
&#8227; If you are not using the open-source radeon driver (or the nouveau driver in case of nvidia hardware), there won't be a /sys/kernel/debug/vgaswitcheroo/switch file. (ignoring hacks like asus-switcheroo and byo-switcheroo). Disabling KMS ("modeset=0") turns off this functionality too.
• hmmmmmm
&#8227; Soooo
• The last thing in my many attempts was to reinstall ubuntu to install the amd/ati driver thru additionhal drivers (post release) as I read that this was the only one to work with vgaswitcheroo.  Oddly after the reinstall of Ubuntu and no updates I saw the switch file (/sys/kernel/debug/vgaswitcheroo/switch) for my first time  (Ubuntu 3.0.0-12) (no additional driver yet).  Then I tried to install the ati driver no luck  - errors so I thought I should update Ubuntu - restart and try again.  After the restart my kernel was at 3.0.0-16 from 12, and no /sys/kernel/debug/vgaswitcheroo folder at all

I will now try updating Ubuntu 11.10's kernel to 3.2 as mentioned in a previous post,  though without much optimism

Thanks for any response

---

### Post by arkeo on 2012-02-18
> **markackerman8@gmail.com said:**
> This reply is hoping some one from this well read thread can help me with my HP Envy-2195ca - arghhhhh here are my notes (as long as they are)

[...]

I will now try updating Ubuntu 11.10's kernel to 3.2 as mentioned in a previous post,  though without much optimism

Thanks for any response

I've had very similar problems with an Acer Aspire 7535 (IIRC), which had a double ATI card (can't remember the exact models now), one low-end to save juice, the other high-end that should have offered some better performance.
I waited two years (then I sold it, and in the meanwhile I got stuck on Win7), and in the end the only thing was to wait for some more recent kernel or more importantly a Catalyst update, which managed (two years after I had bought the damn thing) to finally let me use the "high end" card, with a level of performance though absolutely dismal.

I never got it to work properly under any distro/variant/version, and I'm still stuck with ATI and their leisurely driver development pace on two other systems (a desktop, under which GTK3 is a horrible mess) and a netbook (C-50 based, without the proprietary drivers it's a very warm brick, with them is very barely usable).

I'm thinking about gettin' an Nvidia card for the desktop, but about the netbook I either sell it and go for Atom/ION2 or get a Win7 license (yeah, one of the great things about it was that it came with some Linux distro--no M$ tax, yay!) -- it's the only platform that  lets me see 720p video on my beautiful 720p netbook. The main reason I chose this model in the first place...

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-21
Just ran live CD of 12.04 daily.

Did not have to do anything special. The system booted up without any user input and had the correct screen resolution! It is working great...

No more black screens..Things are looking up!

Radeon HD 6380G

---

### Post by andersetzerodt on 2012-02-26
Hi! I'm thinking about buying an Asus 1225b (E450 with Radeon HD 6320) and I have read most of this thread to get an overview. My worries are whether 12.04 solves the problems some of you stated were present in 11.10 (screen resolution, lagging desktop experience and other stuff related to the graphics.

To be more specific:

1. Would you consider this laptop a good buy, if I intend only to be running 12.04 on it? No Windows 7 and I don't care if I have to use Catalyst drivers (although open source drivers are preferred).

2. If some of you have tried 12.04 on similar laptops (preferably with 12.04), what can you tell about battery life? Is it 6+ hours or way worse than on Windows?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-02-26
12.04 SHOULD be okay with your card.

However that laptop is only an 11 .6 inch screen? Thats tiny...

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-02-27
I don't know if there are any hardware in the 1225b that will give you any trouble, wifi, usb or sound things. But what the E-450 and graphics concerns you should be in the clear, it works fine now. My Lenovo s205 are also an 11.6" and think the size are perfect for my needs. As for the battery life in 11.12 it's not as good in Ubuntu as in windows, Ubuntu uses the battery at least at double speed compared to windows. (i haven't done anything to get it better, it's mostly just plugged in).

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-03-09
Hi all.
AMD have released a Catalyst 12.2, it's not on the support site yet, for some reason, but i found it here:
[http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/amd-driver-installer-12-2-x86.x86_64.run]("http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/amd-driver-installer-12-2-x86.x86_64.run")

---

### Post by gsilves30 on 2012-03-09
I just installed the drivers off of the AMD site. Their find a driver seems to work now for me. I saw E450 and was able to find the new 3/7 released 12.2 Catalyst driver. The instructions [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI ]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI")worked and there were no broken dependencies.

The install went fine. After the install
- Unity runs lag free. 
- I was able to watch a 720p h264, encoded video, some frame drops 

For normal use though the laptop is running well enough for me to finally get rid of windows entirely. If anyone has something they would like me to test out with the new ATI proprietary driver let me know I'll give it a spin after work today or maybe at lunch if time permits.

System
HP DM1Z E450 with integrated HD 6320M 4gb Ram 7200RPM drive.


[]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI")

---

### Post by apoapo on 2012-03-16
Okay.. It is working here also. 3d Acceleration is fine with the HD 6320 and the newest 12.2 driver.

BUT: I am not able to watch HD content. Is here anyone who has managed to play a movie without frame drops to 3-10fps?

(xbmc, vlc both failed to play lagg free)

Is it a well known fact that amds linux support is ******?

Thanks for replies.

---

### Post by gsilves30 on 2012-03-25
Hi Apoapo,

I think the reason you're not getting HD videos to work is you need LIBVA/VAAPI or else VLC won't use the GPU to decode. Likewise since AMD's drivers are :confused: from what I found you also need the XVBA wrapper to get LIBVA to use AMD cards. 

Anyhow lets see if my instructions can help. Bear with me I'm not too good at writing how-to guides and this is also after the fact so I may miss something. 

If you find something I am missing or want to run a question by me shoot me a PM to hop on IRC or if you have Skype I am nearly always on: greg.silverstein1.

Soooo here it goes ! ):P

1) Install AMD/ATI's driver. I think you have this already, if so just double check that it is already doing the open GL acceleration:

```
gsilvers@DM1FTW:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: AMD Radeon HD 6320 Graphics
OpenGL version string: 4.2.11554 Compatibility Profile Context

```2) Open up synaptic package manager (install it if you don't its a great tool!) and select the following packages to be installed:

libva-tpi1
libva-dev
libva-glx1
libva-x11-1
libva1
vainfo

All of these should show version 1.0.12-2

Hit apply and allow them to install.

Then again in synaptic select to install and apply
xvba-va-driver version 0.7.8ubuntu1.1

3) Now this is something I did not see online but i tried it since I had been messing with video drivers all day to make this work. First modify your environment

```

gsilvers@DM1FTW:~$ sudo emacs /etc/environment

```you want to add the line:
LIBVA_DRIVERS_PATH=/usr/lib/va/drivers

Then I purged out my xorg.conf

```

cd /etc/X11
sudo RM xorg.conf

```4) regenerate xorg.conf and turn on the ATI driver.

```

gsilvers@DM1FTW:~$ aticonfig --initial -f

```5) At this point I restarted so the changes to my environment would take place.
6) After a reboot you should be able to see this:

```

gsilvers@DM1FTW:~$ vainfo
libva: libva version 0.32.0
Xlib:  extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":0.0".
libva: va_getDriverName() returns 0
libva: Trying to open /usr/lib/va/drivers/fglrx_drv_video.so
libva: va_openDriver() returns 0
vainfo: VA API version: 0.32
vainfo: Driver version: Splitted-Desktop Systems XvBA backend for VA-API - 0.7.8
vainfo: Supported profile and entrypoints
      VAProfileH264High               :    VAEntrypointVLD
      VAProfileVC1Advanced            :    VAEntrypointVLD

```This means you are ready to go. At this point, I did not have VLC on my laptop so I installed it using apt-get. Once installed I was able to go into preferences/codecs and enable GPU acceleration. After that I was able to watch 

[http://www.digital-digest.com/movies/Brave_1080p_Theatrical_Trailer.html](http://www.digital-digest.com/movies/Brave_1080p_Theatrical_Trailer.html)

With no issues:
[IMG]http://img23.imageshack.us/img23/9278/screenshotat20120325153.png[/IMG]

CPU usage is still a little high (45%) with this running but this is a 1.4ghz 17w chip I'm sure that has to do with firefox as well as the fact I think that some of the decoding (deinterlace?) is not done by the GPU.

Let me know how this works for you!

---

### Post by apoapo on 2012-03-25
Hi [gsilves30]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1314557"),

thank you very much! Unfortunately this specific board is already on its way to a new owner. But i will have to set up another amd powered device soon. 

Your tipps will definitly help me.

As always, community help is GREAT  at ubuntu =D>

Cheers!

apoapo

---

### Post by gsilves30 on 2012-03-25
Good luck :)

And agreed community help (and the sense of YESSSS i got this working) is why I primarily use linux/ubuntu. Although I still have a windows partition for gaming.

---

### Post by gsilves30 on 2012-03-27
Just as a heads up to anyone out there trying this it seems like xvba-va-driver version 0.7.8ubuntu1.1 in synaptic doesn't recognize the new 12-2 drivers from AMD as the dependent FGLRX it needs and rolls back an earlier version.

---

### Post by gsilves30 on 2012-03-27
Yea synaptic has a bad dependency and will overwrite your driver when you install xvba. When you install it go back and purge FGLRX like

[http://forum.xbmc.org/showthread.php?tid=99154&page=71]("http://forum.xbmc.org/showthread.php?tid=99154&page=71")

And then re-install the blob from AMD's site. Enjoy your E450's folks!

Edit: you can avoid this drama by using xvba from [http://www.splitted-desktop.com/~gbeauchesne/xvba-video/](http://www.splitted-desktop.com/~gbeauchesne/xvba-video/)   rather than the one in the repos

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-03-29
Hi Guys.
Just found out that 12.3 has been released. As usual it's not on the support pages until later.
[http://phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?69880-real-fglrx-12-3-released](http://phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?69880-real-fglrx-12-3-released)
But the support pages now has an option to choose the E-450 apu.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-03-29
> **moteprime said:**
> Hi Guys.
Just found out that 12.3 has been released. As usual it's not on the support pages until later.
[http://phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?69880-real-fglrx-12-3-released](http://phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?69880-real-fglrx-12-3-released)
But the support pages now has an option to choose the E-450 apu.


suhweet! Thanks

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-03-29
I read somewhere that there's not much change in it, but in 12.4 there will be.
Since 11.2 i have been suffering from occasional lock-ups crashes in compiz, xorg or whatever.

---

### Post by gsilves30 on 2012-03-31
> **moteprime said:**
> I read somewhere that there's not much change in it, but in 12.4 there will be.
Since 11.2 i have been suffering from occasional lock-ups crashes in compiz, xorg or whatever.

It's certainly a small update. I just installed it now and just a quick test on GLXGEARS went from about 900fps on 12.2 to 1050 on 12.3. HD video seemed a bit smoother. Which video card do you have that is locking up? My e450/6320 seems very stable ever since 12.2. My laptop had a 11 day uptime before I installed the driver.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-04-01
@gsilves30
 
It's E-450/6320 just like yours. (Ideapad s205)
The only setting in Catalyst Centre i have touched are enabling Tear free, and disabling sync to vblanc in ccsm.?
The instability started with 12.1 (i think. 11.x was stable), I wonder if it's something in my setup then.

---

### Post by gsilves30 on 2012-04-04
Hmm maybe we can hop on IRC one day either early or late to make up for the time zones and see if we can't get the difference resolved.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-04-05
@gsilves30 - Anytime, and anybody. -PM or use the IM's .. :-) 

I have a test installation (for laptop testing) of 12.04 on a separate partition that I use more and more as it gets more stable. It's installed with the proprietary drivers that Jockey suggest. think it's equivalent of Catalyst 12.3
Point being that it does not crash or lock-up, but now suspend doesn't work any more, and i have to removed the battery to get the machine to wake up again.
There is a bug on launchpad that I subscripted to [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/908268]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/908268")

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2012-04-06
> **moteprime said:**
> @gsilves30 - Anytime, and anybody. -PM or use the IM's .. :-) 

I have a test installation (for laptop testing) of 12.04 on a separate partition that I use more and more as it gets more stable. It's installed with the proprietary drivers that Jockey suggest. think it's equivalent of Catalyst 12.3
Point being that it does not crash or lock-up, but now suspend doesn't work any more, and i have to removed the battery to get the machine to wake up again.
There is a bug on launchpad that I subscripted to [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/908268]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/908268")

Do the Jockey drivers include the AMD control panel to adjust settings?

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-04-06
> **donalgodon said:**
> Do the Jockey drivers include the AMD control panel to adjust settings?

Yes. Yes they do.

Tim

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-04-07
Are there any difference, if the driver are installed trough Jockey or from the downloaded driver from AMD's support site?

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-04-07
> **moteprime said:**
> Are there any difference, if the driver are installed trough Jockey or from the downloaded driver from AMD's support site?

Well, it is hard to say. When you load one and it works, you generally don't load the other one to check for tiny differences.

But, I was having very good experience with the drivers direct from AMD through abour 12.1. Then, I started having trouble running Unity 3D with them. Then someone convinced me to try the ones from the Ubuntu repos, and they did allow me to run Unity 3D. So, I am currently using the ones from the repos with good results. Also, note that my problems running Unity 3D only affected my Precise system, not Oneiric.

Tim

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2012-04-07
> **ratcheer said:**
> Well, it is hard to say. When you load one and it works, you generally don't load the other one to check for tiny differences.

But, I was having very good experience with the drivers direct from AMD through abour 12.1. Then, I started having trouble running Unity 3D with them. Then someone convinced me to try the ones from the Ubuntu repos, and they did allow me to run Unity 3D. So, I am currently using the ones from the repos with good results. Also, note that my problems running Unity 3D only affected my Precise system, not Oneiric.

Tim

I'm installing Precise. 

So far, I've noticed that the default driver works pretty well. Am I losing battery life by using it instead of the Jockey driver?

Would you recommend the default driver, or the AMD driver in the repos or the one from AMD's site?

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-04-07
I really don't know. If you don't care about 3D functionality, the standard open source driver is fine. The proprietary driver from the repository is much easier to install and maintain than the one direct from AMD.

Tim

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2012-04-07
Does the repo driver actually work with Unity from Precise?

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-04-07
> **donalgodon said:**
> Does the repo driver actually work with Unity from Precise?

It works for me. It works very well.

Tim

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2012-04-08
> **ratcheer said:**
> It works for me. It works very well.

Tim

Thanks. I'll probably use the repo version on the final release. I'm running a daily build now with the blob version.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-04-10
In a support case mail to me from AMD, they wrote that:
> Please note that Ubuntu 12.04 will be supported with the 8.961 driver.
Exactly what it will mean, I don't know, but it sounds good.
I asked them when it's going to be released. -I probably won't get a answer before after it's out, but I can't but try.

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2012-04-10
> **moteprime said:**
> In a support case mail to me from AMD, they wrote that:

Exactly what it will mean, I don't know, but it sounds good.
I asked them when it's going to be released. -I probably won't get a answer before after it's out, but I can't but try.

The current driver is 8.95.1 so that means it will be updated.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-04-10
> The current driver is 8.95.1 so that means it will be updated.

-That part I kinda figured out myself, I was thinking about if supported means that is actually going to work and we can get some support if it doesn't.
;-)

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2012-04-10
> **moteprime said:**
> -That part I kinda figured out myself, I was thinking about if supported means that is actually going to work and we can get some support if it doesn't.
;-)

Yeah, sorry. I didn't mean to sound insulting. I hope that this is a good sign and that the restricted drivers work out of the box, because I cannot use this laptop without Ubuntu. Sony's drivers do not install properly under win-doze, and nobody at Sony cares, since they already have my money.

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-04-10
-No worries, I'm an old fashioned tough-guy, and don't easily get insulted.. :-)

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-04-23
12.4 is out.

[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/embedded/Pages/embedded_linux.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/embedded/Pages/embedded_linux.aspx)

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2012-04-23
are they the same as the restricted drivers that are installable in 12.04?

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2012-04-23
What's the simplest way to remove the 12.3 and install 12.4? I tried to just run it, and it worked, but it did not install the newer version. It's just the old version 12.3 still.

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-04-23
> **donalgodon said:**
> What's the simplest way to remove the 12.3 and install 12.4? I tried to just run it, and it worked, but it did not install the newer version. It's just the old version 12.3 still.

See post #4 in this thread. Some minor details have changed, but the procedures are the same:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1873072](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1873072)

Tim

---

### Post by moteprime on 2012-04-24
@donalgodon
Are the default restricted driver not 8.951?? this one are 8.961.
On both my installations Jockey fails to install the restricted driver.

I always uninstall as described in the readme file from AMD and use:
> aticonfig --uninstall
Remenber to reboot before installing the newer driver.

And the thing about Catalyst centre displaying wrong version info are an old bug nobody ever addressed. You have to deleted the config files in the amd or ati directory somewhere after uninstalling and before installing the newer driver.

---

### Post by RDV on 2012-04-24
Just wanted to pass on my experience with installing Ubuntu 12.04 (beta) on a HP-DM1 4010us E-450.

I am in a dual boot configuration from a clean install of Windows 7 before installing Ubuntu 12.04. I used Ubuntu 12.04 instead of 11.10 because this thread implied that the OOTB experience was better with the beta version and the E-450 APU. I had a non-formatted partion ready for the Ubuntu install and picked the install "side-by-side" option from the Ubuntu 12.04 live disk, which was booted from a usb drive. Grub properly included the Win7 partition in its boot menu.

Comments:
1) To get full throughput and stability, WiFi needs to be fixed with the instructions below. Too bad Ubuntu 12.04 did not correct this issue which exists with Ubuntu 11.10.
  > [https://tuxcanfly.appspot.com/tag/ubuntu-broadcom-4313-43xx-bcmwl](https://tuxcanfly.appspot.com/tag/ubuntu-broadcom-4313-43xx-bcmwl)
2) I was able to install the repository Catalyst drivers (driver package version 8.96) BUT not by using the restricted drive app. I install Synaptic first and then installed the fglrx catalyst drivers using Synaptic. As noted in other posts installing from the restricted driver app failed. Installing with a command line apt-get may have also been an option but I did not try that method.
3) I definitely get OS locks that force me to do a hard power off but they are not frequent or too bothersome. Right now I question the stability of Ubuntu 12.04 in general (it is still beta) over HP-DM1 hardware compatibility, as I have found the same issues on a desktop machine. Hopefully this will be smoothed out over the next month or so.
4) Unfortunately even with the Catalyst drivers, playing 1280x720p HD videos still are not smooth enough to allow me to remove Win7 from this machine. I expected this as I have never seen AMD/ATI Linux video playback come close to Nvidia proprietary drivers. Non-HD videos play very well so this not a huge issue. The HD videos were recorded with a Hauppauge HD-PVR.
5) On screen display and function keys controls work very well. 
6) I have not had any specific issues that I blame on Unity 3D. 
7) The HDMI port works with a 1920x1080p TV but only at 1368x720p resolution. The "projector" function key has no effect on the resolution. This is unlike with Win7 as you can select "Projector Only" and the HDTV will display at full 1920x1080p resolution.
8 ) Hibernate/Suspend works as expected.
9) Cannot comment on battery life as I usually have the machine plugged in.
10) Not sure if there is much difference with heat levels between Win7 and Ubuntu as I have not been using for more than a week.

Hopefully this information is useful to someone.

Doug

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2012-04-28
Has anyone been able to get the 3.4 kernel to work with the Catalyst 11.4 drivers?

---

### Post by ubik89 on 2012-06-19
Somebody got 1080p video working on ubuntu 12.04 with hdmi?

Am I doing something wrong? Video playback is very lame... even with libva drivers.

---

### Post by richman1000000 on 2012-08-19
> **ubik89 said:**
> Somebody got 1080p video working on ubuntu 12.04 with hdmi?

Am I doing something wrong? Video playback is very lame... even with libva drivers.

i didn't tried HDMI but 1080p looking good.

1. installing xvba-va-driver
2. mplayer -vo vaapi "path to file"

It works in my case. But VLC doesn't yet.

---

