---
title: "Thinkpad R40 ATI Mobility 7500 video problems!  HELP!"
date: 2008-10-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by juiceman on 2008-10-22
Hey guys,
I am having a bit of a problem getting video drivers to work properly.  I installed Hardy 8.04 and have the run the system updates.

I get good resolution, but I would like to be able to use visual effects and hardware acceleration.

I have a Thinkpad R40 which has the ATI Mobility 7500 card in it.

LSPCI reports this:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]

This is my xorg.conf  (my conversation continues after the data):
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


Now... I have read on these forums about tweaks to the xorg.conf file, but they always have all kinds of information regarding the Radeon video driver and many specific things.  In my case, all it has is "Configured Video Device"   wtf does that mean?  If I don't even have all those radeon choices, how can I change them to the variables suggested?  All the threads I've read seem to assume that the xorg.conf file has all that info present.

Yesterday I tried that radeon video script by that guy (i cant remember the name, but its very popular for video drivers) and it ended up causing me a lot of problems and not working.  When I uninstalled I ended up with only one choice of 640x480 and had to reinstall ubuntu just to get back to a workable resolution.

Please help.  I'm not too new to ubuntu, but I just don't know wtf to do from here and could use some help.  This system worked perfectly fine with windows xp and all the hardware worked, so I know it isn't a hardware issue.

Cheers,
Juice

---

### Post by juiceman on 2008-10-23
u-bump-tu

---

### Post by roffik on 2008-10-26
I have Thinkpad T40 and ATI 7500 too. I tried to get it working on Ubuntu 8.04 few months ago. I got Compiz working, but effects was broken (don't know why). I updated to Ubuntu 8.10 RC few days ago and I found Compiz working out-of-box (quite fast). Unluckily, the flash videos were running very slowly, so I turned it off. You can update by executing
```
sudo update-manager -c -d
```

---

### Post by juiceman on 2008-10-26
> **roffik said:**
> I have Thinkpad T40 and ATI 7500 too. I tried to get it working on Ubuntu 8.04 few months ago. I got Compiz working, but effects was broken (don't know why). I updated to Ubuntu 8.10 RC few days ago and I found Compiz working out-of-box (quite fast). Unluckily, the flash videos were running very slowly, so I turned it off. You can update by executing
```
sudo update-manager -c -d
```

updating now.  i already love you like a brudda from anotha motha.

word

---

### Post by juiceman on 2008-10-27
damnit.. did the update and now i'm stuck with 800x600!   so lame.  it was at 1400xsomething earlier...

i hate trying to fix this crap.  can someone please just infiltrate ATI?

---

### Post by roffik on 2008-10-27
Oops... What is your xorg.conf now? I didn't change anything from the default installation and after update it is very clean - there are only "Default" values 8-)

---

### Post by juiceman on 2008-10-27
Yeh, so apparently it worked for you but not for me.  wtf is that all about?  

When it tells me it did not work it gives me the choice to reconfigure, use the generic, or go and look at logs and edit the config file.  

Editing the config file is worthless because using the config info from the past doesn't seem to work.  Doing the reconfigure sends me to a blank screen that just hangs... and using the Default reboots the video and tells me that it didn't work and then gives me the same 3 options again.

LSPCI reports this:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]


If yours does, then why the hell is ubuntu 8.10 working differently for you than it is for me?

Can anyone else help me?  It's crap like this that makes people resort back to windows and I don't want to, but when I got this laptop everything was working fine in XP.

Please help,
Juice

---

### Post by juiceman on 2008-10-27
Following the instructions on this site made it all work again:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)

I believe it was the removing of the FGLRX driver that really did the 'fixing'

"sudo apt-get remove --purge xorg-driver-fglrx"

I still did everything as suggested except modifying the xorg.conf.  When I did that, it didn't work and had to revert to the stored autoconfig one (with basically no settings for anything).  so the end result was:  remove FGLRX, and let the xorg do autoconfig for your stuff instead of having settings in there.

---

### Post by roffik on 2008-10-28
It appears that I've never had installed that package (I checked history in synaptic), but I'm not sure.
Anyway, I'm glad to hear that it works. You can add "[solved]" to the thread's title.

---

