---
title: "12.10 upgrade"
date: 2012-11-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lonewolf69 on 2012-11-30
I currently have 12.04 and tried to upgrade to 12.10 and got a warning about my display adaptor might not be able to run unity 3d and recommended to stay with LTS.  I have an inexpensive nvidea card and there is no nvidea driver installed, I can only assume that linux is running a generic driver.  If I upgraded anyway does anyone know if I would loose my graphics or if I activated the nvidea driver what would happen?

Thanks.
K

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-12-01
You are probably running the open source drivers at the moment. Chances are that these are not sufficient to run the graphics of Unity on 12.10. The forum is full of graphics problems with 12.10, which range from garbled screens to not being able to even start the desktop.
Are there any necessities to upgrade to 12.10? If 12.04 is running stable for you and considering that it is LTS, it may save you a lot of trouble to keep 12.04 instead of upgrading to 12.10.

---

### Post by gnusci on 2012-12-01
I think it should work fine, most of the problems are with the newest video cards.

---

### Post by gnusci on 2012-12-01
> **2F4U said:**
> You are probably running the open source drivers at the moment. Chances are that these are not sufficient to run the graphics of Unity on 12.10. The forum is full of graphics problems with 12.10, which range from garbled screens to not being able to even start the desktop.
Are there any necessities to upgrade to 12.10? If 12.04 is running stable for you and considering that it is LTS, it may save you a lot of trouble to keep 12.04 instead of upgrading to 12.10.

Better listen to him.

---

### Post by lonewolf69 on 2012-12-01
I saw a website that listed 10 reasons for why 12.10 is better than windows and thought I would want to use some of those upgrades.  I have been running linux for the last year and the first time since red hat in 10 years.  The OS is awesome but I have learned that they still have graphic issues and I needed to buy the card I currently have.  

Are the changes between 12.04 and 12.10 not worth the potential hassle of upgrading?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2012-12-01
What video card do you have?
```
lspci
```

---

### Post by lonewolf69 on 2012-12-01
I have a GeForce 520.  Not the best I know but I don't game much.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2012-12-02
If you install the nvidia driver, a 520 (I'm assuming you meant GT520 and not the ancient FX5200) is more than modern/powerful enough to run desktop effects. If you're really worried about it, make a small 12.10 install on a USB drive, install the nvidia driver and test it out. LTS release is good for those that don't like to upgrade, but you shouldn't have to hold yourself to its older package base if you don't want to.

---

