---
title: "Upgraded to 9.04, right click not working on tablet X200T"
date: 2009-06-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nimonika on 2009-06-04
I upgraded last night to 9.04 and it has completely messed up my xorg.conf. I do not have right click enabled any more on my tablet x200T.

Here is the xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

It completely wipped off my wacom settings. Please can someone help

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-06-05
Hi nimonika,

In Jaunty you do not use xorg.conf for Wacom anymore.  You use HAL/.fdi.  To get your stylus button back you could use wacomcpl.  To see if it works type in a terminal:
```
xsetwacom list
```
You should see stylus, eraser, and touch.  If you don't try:
```
xinput --list
```
That shows you what names HAL is returning.  Take a look at 3 and 3a in Jaunty Users near the top here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949)  And info. on wacomcpl in Section 3.

You can also add options to the 10-wacom.fdi like you did with xorg.conf.

Good luck!

---

### Post by nimonika on 2009-06-06
Thanks, I followed all the steps in the tutorial and I get stuck when I do a make. I get the following error

In file included from ./xf86Wacom.c:84:
./xf86Wacom.h:30:28: error: xf86Version.h: No such file or directory
make[2]: *** [xf86Wacom.o] Error 1
make[2]: Leaving directory `/home/monika/Desktop/linuxwacom-0.8.2-2/src/xdrv'
make[1]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/monika/Desktop/linuxwacom-0.8.2-2/src'
make: *** [all-recursive] Error 1

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-06-06
Hi nimonika,

I would greatly appreciate if you removed the quote that contains the entire HOW TO on your post on the HOW TO thread.

I gather that rather than 3 or 3a in Jaunty Users you wanted to try 2 and continue using xorg.conf.  But notice the HOW TO is set up for 0.8.2-2, the last production version.  And you need, for Jaunty, at least 0.8.3-2 (a development version).  This is because 0.8.3-2 (and up) are the first to support Xserver 1.6 which is in Jaunty.  So you need to change the version number of the 3 lines that refer to the version number.  Like so:
```
wget http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/linuxwacom/linuxwacom-0.8.3-3.tar.bz2

tar xjvf linuxwacom-0.8.3-3.tar.bz2

cd linuxwacom-0.8.3-3

```
What I do is just copy them into a text file and change the version number to the one I want.  It is up to 0.8.3-5 currently.  When I get to that line in the HOW TO I copy and paste the line from the text file.

---

### Post by nimonika on 2009-06-06
Apologies for the quote earlier on. 

I managed to get to the configuring xorg.conf section. below is the xorg.conf I had for 8.10

# Uncomment the following section if you you have a TabletPC that upports touch

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "HDMI-1"
Option "Ignore" "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "HDMI-2"
Option "Ignore" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1280x800" "1024x768"
Virtual 2704 1050
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # SERIAL ONLY
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # SERIAL ONLY
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # SERIAL ONLY
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "pad"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # SERIAL ONLY
Option "Type" "pad"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "touch"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # SERIAL ONLY
Option "Type" "touch"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Serial Tablet PC ONLY
Option "BottomX" "915"
Option "BottomY" "940"
Option "TopX" "48"
Option "TopY" "90"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents" # For non-LCD tablets only
InputDevice "pad" # For Intuos3/CintiqV5/Graphire4/Bamboo tablets
InputDevice "touch" "SendCoreEvents" # Only a few TabletPCs support this typeEndSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "intel"
Option "monitor-HDMI-1" "HDMI-1"
Option "monitor-HDMI-2" "HDMI-2"
EndSection

I took the tablet related sections from here and pasted in my current xorg.conf. Unfortunately the system would not show me any graphical display. Please could you advise further on what to do.

Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-06-06
Hi nimonika,

> Apologies for the quote earlier on.
No problem.  But please remove the quote by using the "Edit" feature on the lower right corner of the post as soon as you can.

You have a couple of extra Wacom entries in your xorg.conf that you do not need.  I removed them.  They may have affected video.  I also added right click back.

More likely the video problems are from changes regarding video in Jaunty.  Also some Intel chipsets don't work well with the Jaunty Intel video drivers.  You should find out what your video chipset is.

So I used the video sections from your original Jaunty xorg.conf.  See if things are working correctly before you make changes to the video.
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "stylus"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # SERIAL ONLY
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
	Option		"Button2"	"3"  # make side-switch a R mouse click
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "eraser"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # SERIAL ONLY
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "touch"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # SERIAL ONLY
Option "Type" "touch"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Serial Tablet PC ONLY
Option "BottomX" "915"
Option "BottomY" "940"
Option "TopX" "48"
Option "TopY" "90"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "touch" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
```

I hope this is helpful.

---

### Post by nimonika on 2009-06-07
Unfortunately the xorg.conf did not work. It is indeed the video, but I do not know how to fix it. Please could you suggest anything else that could be done.

Thanks

---

### Post by nimonika on 2009-06-07
Here are the details from my lspci if that is any help,

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub (rev 07)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:03.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset MEI Controller (rev 07)
00:03.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset PT IDER Controller (rev 07)
00:03.3 Serial controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset AMT SOL Redirection (rev 07)
00:19.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82567LM Gigabit Network Connection (rev 03)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 93)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M-E LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E SATA AHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
03:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Wireless WiFi Link 5300
04:00.0 Memory controller: Intel Corporation Turbo Memory Controller (rev 11)

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-06-07
Hi nimonika,

Thank you very much for removing the quote.

I'm sorry to hear the xorg.conf did not work.  Did video come up in low graphics mode again?  Try commenting out (#) the "ServerLayout" section and see what happens.:
```
#Section "ServerLayout"
#Identifier "Default Layout"
#Screen "Default Screen"
#InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
#InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
#InputDevice "touch" "SendCoreEvents"
#EndSection
```

Since it seems to be your video we should probably work on that first before we try anymore Wacom stuff.

Your video is:
```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
```
Usually to find your video card most people use this command:
```
lspci -nn | grep VGA
```

You can search the forums and Google for information.  Looking around I found a few links for you.:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582&highlight=intel+jaunty](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582&highlight=intel+jaunty)
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/intel-graphics-performance-guide-for-ubuntu-904-jaunty-users.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/intel-graphics-performance-guide-for-ubuntu-904-jaunty-users.html)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4)
[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates/](https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates/)

I think there are a couple of things in them that should work for you.

Good luck!

---

### Post by nimonika on 2009-06-11
Hello,
I did try looking through the different links, but  I am confused on what exactly I may need to do or how should I proceed to sort the video problem out.

Please could you give me some hints on what I may need to do to configure the video.

Thanks

---

