---
title: "A 4.0 Tb NAS mounted via NFS has only 3.6 Tb of total space"
date: 2017-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by sberla54 on 2017-04-28
Hello everyone,
i've just bought a WD MyCloud EX2 Ultra NAS with a couple of WD Red 4 Tb disks that i configured in RAID1 but i'm having a major problem: Ubuntu only mount it as a 3.6 Tb drive.

I've mounted it via NFS with a string like that:

```
192.168.1.65:/nfs/Backup    /media/Backup   nfs  auto,_netdev,noatime,nolock,bg,intr,tcp,actimeo=1800   0   0
```

And that's the total space:
```

root@neuromante:~# df -h
File system               Dim. Usati Dispon. Uso% Montato su
192.168.1.65:/nfs/Backup  3,6T  2,7T    954G  74% /media/Backup

```

In the NAS control panel i can see that the RAID is correctly recognized with 3.93 Tb of total space:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/n0n0LyK.png[/IMG]

Do you have any idea why it happens?
Is it caused by NFS?

I understand that's normal to lose a little bit of the nominal total space but 400 Gb are way too much.

Thank you!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-04-28
MB vs MiB
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_prefix](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_prefix)
[http://www.osforge.com/news/001337.html](http://www.osforge.com/news/001337.html)
Then when you format it, the ext4 is journalized so it reserves space for the journal. This improves performance and allows error correction for the cost of a small amount of space. Also reserves space for superuser. 


 Also in Linux the default is to reserve 5% of the diskspace for the superuser (this can be adjusted using tune2fs -m).
sudo tune2fs -l /dev/sdd3

---

### Post by sberla54 on 2017-05-01
Thank you for your quick answer!
I knew there were MB and MiB but i never really studied the difference.

I've read what your links but i still can't understand: do you mean that the 3.93 TB i see on my NAS are equivalent to the 3.6 T i see on Ubuntu?

I know that Ext4 reserves space for journaling but isn't 400 Gb a little bit too much? It's the 10%!
Even if i have to say that i'm noticing the same behaviour on my two 2 Tb internal drives:

```
root@neuromante:~# df -h | grep /media/
/dev/sdb1                 1,8T  759G    983G  44% /media/Disco_02
/dev/sdc1                 1,8T  861G    881G  50% /media/Disco_03
192.168.1.65:/nfs/Backup  3,6T  2,7T    953G  74% /media/Backup

```

---

### Post by sberla54 on 2017-05-09
Up.

Noone else can help me guys?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-05-09
Did you use tunefs to change the 5%. 

That is primarily for the operating system and if data you need little if any as long as you make sure you do not fill drive. 
And 90% is about full.

---

### Post by sberla54 on 2017-05-09
I tried to use tunefs but i can't, because it's a network drive i suppose:

```
root@neuromante:~# sudo tune2fs -l /media/Backup
tune2fs 1.42.9 (4-Feb-2014)
tune2fs: Attempt to read block from filesystem resulted in short read durante l'apertura di /media/Backup
Impossibile trovare un valido superblocco per il filesystem.
```
```

root@neuromante:~# tune2fs -l 192.168.1.65:/nfs/Backup
tune2fs 1.42.9 (4-Feb-2014)
tune2fs: File o directory non esistente durante l'apertura di 192.168.1.65:/nfs/Backup
Impossibile trovare un valido superblocco per il filesystem.

```
It says "file or directory not existing during the opening of ...." and "Impossibile to find a valid superblock for the filesystem".

Am i missing something?

> [COLOR=#000000]That is primarily for the operating system and if data you need little if any as long as you make sure you do not fill drive. [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]And 90% is about full.[/COLOR]

I'm sorry dude, i don't mean to be rude but i really didn't understood what you say. I mean, the english, not the meaning behind it :) 
I apologize.
Could you re-elaborate the sentence?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2017-05-09
You can't change the formatting parameters of a drive mounted over NFS.  You would have to do this from within the NAS operating system using the same methods you used before.  When creating the ext4 filesystem on the array, see if you can use the "-m" parameter to mkfs.ext4 that controls the amount of reserved space.  On huge drives like yours, using "-m 1" is a reasonable choice.  On pure data drives, e.g., like one mounted as /home, you don't need any reserved space and can use "-m 0".

The default 5% reserved area comes from a time when disk drives were much, much smaller than they are today.

---

