---
title: "10.04 Server + Western Digital 3TB External Problems"
date: 2011-08-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bluehz on 2011-08-12
I have spent the better part of the past week trying to get this new Western Digital Elements 3TB external HD to work with my Ubuntu 10.0.4 server. I have researched and read about the process until I am blue in the face and still no luck. Specifically this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1536933&highlight=western+digital+3TB](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1536933&highlight=western+digital+3TB)

I know about the Advanced Format used on these WD drives and have followed all the instructions I can find out there. Using parted I can created the GPT partition table, then use mkfs.ext3 to format as ext3 and all is well. Drive mounts and is perfectly fine. As soon as I unplug the drive and plug it back in. Nada! dmesg tells me no recognized partitions on the drive. I have tried parted, gparted, gparted live cd, partedmagic live cd and every other method of formatting this drive but always the same results. As soon as you remove the drive and plug it back in it is unrecognized.

Is there something I need to turn on in the kernel modules to get this to work?

I am pulling my hair out - any advice would be GREATLY appreciated!

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-08-12
Please run the following diagnostic tests and post the results here, between [noparse]```
[/noparse] and [noparse]
```[/noparse] tags to keep the results legible:


[list]
[*]Unplug the disk, type "dmesg | tail", plug the disk in, type "dmesg |  tail" again, and post any extra lines that appear in the second dmesg  output.
[*]The output of "sudo parted /dev/sdb print" (assuming the disk is /dev/sdb; change as necessary here and in subsequent commands). Posting this output before and after unplugging and replugging the disk is worthwhile.
[*]The output of "sudo gdisk -l /dev/sdb", again both before and after unplugging and replugging the disk.
[/list]

---

### Post by bluehz on 2011-08-13
Thanks for the reply srs5694.

**NOTES**
[LIST]
[*]The device in question is /dev/sdd
[*]Most of the info I read involves sector alignment and recommendations are all over the board from "Sector 64" to "1MB". I have tried them all. For these tests I used the following to format:
parted -a optimal /dev/sdd   <--- concensus is "-a optimal" for WD AF drives
mklabel gpt
mkpart primary 1M -1
[*]You may notice that the disk below is showing as "MS BASIC DATA" (ala 0700) as the partition type. I have tried everything ext2, ext3, ntfs - I would prefer ext3 (with journal) since this will be used as a network media drive shared by several Macs on the network. For illustration purposes I am displaying the results of tests run after formatting as ntfs since I can fast format in ntfs. The results are exactly the same for ext3 formatted partition.
[*]I am using mkfs.ntfs -f /dev/sdd1 (shown below) or mkfs.ext3 /dev/sdd1 for partition formatting and filesystem creation.
[/LIST]

> **srs5694 said:**
> Please run the following diagnostic tests and post the results here, 

Unplug the disk, type "dmesg | tail", plug the disk in, type "dmesg |  tail" again, and post any extra lines that appear in the second dmesg  output.

**AFTER UNPLUG/REPLUG**
```
[86207.336046] usb 1-6: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 25
[86207.469231] usb 1-6: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[86207.471477] scsi25 : SCSI emulation for USB Mass Storage devices
[86207.471615] usb-storage: device found at 25
[86207.471618] usb-storage: waiting for device to settle before scanning
[86212.468234] usb-storage: device scan complete
[86212.470457] scsi 25:0:0:0: Direct-Access     WD       Ext HDD 1021     2021 PQ: 0 ANSI: 4
[86212.472172] sd 25:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg4 type 0
[86212.482057] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] 732566016 4096-byte logical blocks: (3.00 TB/2.72 TiB)
[86212.483921] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Write Protect is off
[86212.483926] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Mode Sense: 17 00 10 08
[86212.483929] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Assuming drive cache: write through
[86212.484795] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] 732566016 4096-byte logical blocks: (3.00 TB/2.72 TiB)
[86212.486541] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Assuming drive cache: write through
[86212.486546]  sdd: unknown partition table
[86212.500684] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] 732566016 4096-byte logical blocks: (3.00 TB/2.72 TiB)
[86212.503085] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Assuming drive cache: write through
[86212.503096] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Attached SCSI disk

```

> The output of "sudo parted /dev/sdb print" (assuming the disk is /dev/sdb; change as necessary here and in subsequent commands). Posting this output before and after unplugging and replugging the disk is worthwhile.

**BEFORE UNPLUG/REPLUG (IMMEDIATELY AFTER PARTITION AND FORMAT)**
```
# parted /dev/sdd print
Model: WD Ext HDD 1021 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdd: 3001GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 4096B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  3001GB  3001GB               HD20

```

**AFTER UNPLUG/REPLUG**
```
# parted /dev/sdd print
Model: WD Ext HDD 1021 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdd: 3001GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 4096B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  3001GB  3001GB               HD20

```

> The output of "sudo gdisk -l /dev/sdb", again both before and after unplugging and replugging the disk.

**BEFORE UNPLUG/REPLUG (IMMEDIATELY AFTER PARTITION AND FORMAT)**
```
# gdisk -l /dev/sdd
GPT fdisk (gdisk) version 0.7.2

Partition table scan:
  MBR: protective
  BSD: not present
  APM: not present
  GPT: present

Found valid GPT with protective MBR; using GPT.
Disk /dev/sdd: 732566016 sectors, 2.7 TiB
Logical sector size: 4096 bytes
Disk identifier (GUID): 3ECC6E3F-F4DA-46C9-9A68-5044E3CDE950
Partition table holds up to 128 entries
First usable sector is 6, last usable sector is 732566010
Partitions will be aligned on 256-sector boundaries
Total free space is 501 sectors (2.0 MiB)

Number  Start (sector)    End (sector)  Size       Code  Name
   1             256       732565759   2.7 TiB     0700  HD20

```

**AFTER UNPLUG/REPLUG**
```
# gdisk -l /dev/sdd
GPT fdisk (gdisk) version 0.7.2

Partition table scan:
  MBR: protective
  BSD: not present
  APM: not present
  GPT: present

Found valid GPT with protective MBR; using GPT.
Disk /dev/sdd: 732566016 sectors, 2.7 TiB
Logical sector size: 4096 bytes
Disk identifier (GUID): 3ECC6E3F-F4DA-46C9-9A68-5044E3CDE950
Partition table holds up to 128 entries
First usable sector is 6, last usable sector is 732566010
Partitions will be aligned on 256-sector boundaries
Total free space is 501 sectors (2.0 MiB)

Number  Start (sector)    End (sector)  Size       Code  Name
   1             256       732565759   2.7 TiB     0700  HD20

```

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-08-13
> **bluehz said:**
> Most of the info I read involves sector alignment and recommendations are all over the board from "Sector 64" to "1MB". I have tried them all.

Partition alignment is important for performance in some situations, but adjusting alignment will *not* fix the problem you're experiencing. In fact, your disk has 4096-byte logical sectors, so alignment isn't an issue for you, period.

> You may notice that the disk below is showing as "MS BASIC DATA" (ala 0700) as the partition type. I have tried everything ext2, ext3, ntfs - I would prefer ext3 (with journal) since this will be used as a network media drive shared by several Macs on the network.The filesystem type code (shown in modified form under the "Code" column in gdisk and not reported by parted) is a GUID that's part of the partition table structure. The actual filesystem used on a partition *should* match the partition table type code, but it *can* be anything at all. In the past, Linux and Windows have shared a type code, but that's in the process of changing; there's a new Linux-only filesystem type code (referenced as "8300" in gdisk; it should be used automatically in future versions of parted, but the change hasn't yet been implemented in any public release).

None of this is directly relevant to your problem, though; I've just presented this information so that you know it's *not* relevant.
> 
**AFTER UNPLUG/REPLUG**
```
[86212.472172] sd 25:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg4 type 0
[86212.482057] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] 732566016 4096-byte logical blocks: (3.00 TB/2.72 TiB)
[86212.483921] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Write Protect is off
[86212.483926] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Mode Sense: 17 00 10 08
[86212.483929] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Assuming drive cache: write through
[86212.484795] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] 732566016 4096-byte logical blocks: (3.00 TB/2.72 TiB)
[86212.486541] sd 25:0:0:0: [sdd] Assuming drive cache: write through
[86212.486546]  sdd: unknown partition table

```

The last line I've quoted reveals a problem: The kernel isn't recognizing the partition table on the disk. Your parted and gdisk outputs reveal that the partition tables are OK. I strongly suspect that the failure to recognize the partition table is caused by the 4096-byte sector size on the hard disk. Through at least version 2.6.32.3 (and maybe a bit later; I'm not sure exactly when this was fixed), there was a bug in the Linux kernel that prevented it from working correctly with GPT on disks with other-than-512-byte sectors. If I'm right, there are several possible solutions:


[LIST]
[*]Upgrade your kernel to the latest available in the 10.04 repositories and hope that it fixes this bug. Of course, if you've already got the latest kernel, that won't help....
[*]Report this as a bug and wait for a fix to arrive.
[*]Recompile your kernel from source but apply a fix. [Here's the fixed efi.c file]("http://www.rodsbooks.com/gdisk/efi.c") to fix the problem.
[*]Install a more recent kernel. I just checked, and the 2.6.38-8-generic kernel used in Ubuntu 11.04 works fine. I don't know if you could install that directly via a precompiled package and have it work on your 10.04 installation, but you can certainly compile your own more recent kernel from source code, if you know how to do that.
[*]Upgrade from 10.04 to 11.04. This is a bit drastic, but it would probably fix the problem.
[*]Switch from GPT to MBR partitioning. Given the 4096-byte sector size on this disk , the MBR size limit is raised from 2 TiB to 16 TiB, so your disk is small enough to be used with MBR.
[/LIST]


Personally, I'd use some variety of kernel upgrade to overcome this problem; however, if you're not comfortable with any of those solutions, switching to MBR is a relatively easy solution and should work fine, provided you didn't want or need GPT for some reason other than its support of larger disks. To switch to MBR, you can either use gdisk's option to do this on the recovery & transformation menu (Launch gdisk, type "r", type "g", type "p" to review your partition table, optionally make changes, and then type "w" to save the partitions in MBR form) or use parted or GParted to create a fresh MBR partition table (called "msdos" partition table in these tools). Using gdisk will preserve your existing partitions, whereas using parted or GParted will wipe everything.

---

### Post by the-ridikulus-rat on 2011-08-13
> **srs5694 said:**
> 
[LIST]
[*]Recompile your kernel from source but apply a fix. [Here's the fixed efi.c file]("http://www.rodsbooks.com/gdisk/efi.c") to fix the problem.
[/LIST]


Can you post the patch somewhere highlighting the changes you made to efi.c file?

---

### Post by bluehz on 2011-08-13
Wow! Great info srs5694. Thank you for taking the time to explain all of that. 

I felt for sure I had noted compatibility with 4096 blocks and 10.04 but maybe I was wrong. I checked and my kernel is below the number you indicated. I keep my system regularly updated but I am getting no indication of a new kernel available using standard apt-get dist-upgrade. I can of course see newer kernels in the repository but I'm not really sure if I can just downlod a newer kernel and dpkg install it. I would ultimately prefer the kernel update method of all your methods mentioned. I have built a few kernels in my time but they were mainly on sandbox installs and this is on my working home media server. If I take this machine down for an extended period the wife and kids will kill me. So while the prospect of recompiling the kernel exists, it is definitely lower in my choices.

I have not had a chance to try the MBR method yet - but that sounds like the fastest fix if I can't install a precompiled kernel. This drive hangs off the Ubuntu server and acts as a media drive for the house. I occasionally take it off and plug it directly into a Mac OS X machine. Is there any foreseeable problem using it as an MBR setup?

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-08-13
> **skodabenz said:**
> Can you post the patch somewhere highlighting the changes you made to efi.c file?

I didn't make the patch, actually; I found it [here.](http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.kernel/914415) It's largely irrelevant today unless you're running an old kernel, which I guess Ubuntu 10.04 still does.

> **bluehz]I felt for sure I had noted compatibility with 4096 blocks and 10.04 but  maybe I was wrong.[/quote]

For the most part, older kernels work fine with disks that have sector sizes other than 512 bytes. The problem is only with GPT on such disks, which is probably why your research didn't turn it up said:**
> I checked and my kernel is below the number you  indicated. I keep my system regularly updated but I am getting no  indication of a new kernel available using standard apt-get  dist-upgrade. I can of course see newer kernels in the repository but  I'm not really sure if I can just downlod a newer kernel and dpkg  install it. I would ultimately prefer the kernel update method of all  your methods mentioned. I have built a few kernels in my time but they  were mainly on sandbox installs and this is on my working home media  server. If I take this machine down for an extended period the wife and  kids will kill me. So while the prospect of recompiling the kernel  exists, it is definitely lower in my choices.

You can always try installing a precompiled kernel and, if it doesn't work, revert to your old one. This statement assumes, however, that the new kernel installs side-by-side with the old one; if you overwrite any old kernel files and it doesn't work, you'll have more hoops to jump through to fix the problem. You could back up the kernel, the initial RAM disk, the modules in /lib/modules/{version}, and your /boot/grub/grub.cfg file just to be safe. If something goes badly wrong, restoring those files should restore the system to bootability.

[quote=bluehz]I have not had a chance to try the MBR method yet - but that sounds like  the fastest fix if I can't install a precompiled kernel. This drive  hangs off the Ubuntu server and acts as a media drive for the house. I  occasionally take it off and plug it directly into a Mac OS X machine.  Is there any foreseeable problem using it as an MBR setup?[/quote]

OS X certainly understands MBR, so as long as you use a filesystem OS X can read, I don't know of any reason why MBR would pose a problem. That said, there could theoretically be a similar OS X bug that affects only MBR disks. Thus, if the ability to read the disk in OS X is important to you, I recommend you try it before you put too much data on the disk.

---

### Post by bluehz on 2011-08-14
srs5694 - I can't thank you enough for all the time you spent on helping me with all this valuable info you have given me. I have made several requests for help over the years here on the Ubuntu Forums and most times I get no response whatsoever. You have renewed my faith in the Ubuntu Forums community and the spirit of what we all like to do with Ubuntu.

I updated my distro to 10.10 hoping that might bring along a newer kernel with it but it did not so I have decided to settle on using the MBR method you suggested. After several unmounts/remounts - all seems to be well and the formatted drives has tested fine on the Mac OS X machine also - as formatted NTFS. I would ultimately like to update the kernel without updating to Ubuntu 11, but I was unable to find some concise, safe instructions on doing a manual kernel upgrade and it made me a bit nervous.

I hope this post can serve to help someone in the future with this problem - because EVERYTHING ELSE OUT THERE stresses the importance of the GPT format as a MUST HAVE.

In terms of formatting this drive with a filesystem (I am still not committed) - would you recommend ext3 or NTFS? Unfortunately this particular location often has power outages, etc and the system will hard reboot so I need a fault tolerant filesystem that is capable of self-repair upon reboot for the external drive. I have another external drive that is currently formatted HFS+ (comes from OS X) and while it functions great all the time - once a hard boot occurs I have to take the drive to the OS X machine to repair it and then plug it back into the server. This 3TB is actually going to replace that drive so I I want it to be as maintenance free as possible.

---

### Post by bluehz on 2011-08-15
Okay I spoke to soon - I transferred a few 100mb of files to the drive to test then unlugged and plugged back in and no go.

```
mount -a
Failed to read last sector (732565759): Invalid argument
HINTS: Either the volume is a RAID/LDM but it wasn't setup yet,
   or it was not setup correctly (e.g. by not using mdadm --build ...),
   or a wrong device is tried to be mounted,
   or the partition table is corrupt (partition is smaller than NTFS),
   or the NTFS boot sector is corrupt (NTFS size is not valid).
Failed to mount '/dev/sdd1': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sdd1' doesn't seem to have a valid NTFS.
Maybe the wrong device is used? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/sda, not /dev/sda1)? Or the other way around?

-------------------------

parted /dev/sdd print
Model: WD Ext HDD 1021 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdd: 3001GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 4096B/4096B
Partition Table: msdos

Number  Start   End     Size    Type     File system  Flags
 1      1049kB  3001GB  3001GB  primary


```

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-08-15
> **bluehz said:**
> In terms of formatting this drive with a filesystem (I am still not committed) - would you recommend ext3 or NTFS? Unfortunately this particular location often has power outages, etc and the system will hard reboot so I need a fault tolerant filesystem that is capable of self-repair upon reboot for the external drive. I have another external drive that is currently formatted HFS+ (comes from OS X) and while it functions great all the time - once a hard boot occurs I have to take the drive to the OS X machine to repair it and then plug it back into the server. This 3TB is actually going to replace that drive so I I want it to be as maintenance free as possible.

For a disk that's to be used with Linux and OS X, NTFS is about the worst choice that will work at all. The problem is that neither Linux nor OS X includes NTFS disk maintenance tools. Thus, the moment there's a power outage or other uncontrolled unmount of the disk, you'll run into problems. Your latest post is an example of this; the problems you're experiencing are almost certainly NTFS issues, not partition table issues.

For Linux and OS X use, I'd probably use an *unjournaled* version of HFS+. Linux supports this just fine, and there's even a filesystem check utility for HFS+ available in Linux. (You've got to install an HFS+ support package, though. I don't recall its name offhand.) There are two problems with this approach:


[list]
[*]Linux doesn't provide full and reliable read/write support to the *journaled* version of HFS+. If you use the unjournaled version, it will work fine, but disk check operations will be much lengthier when they become necessary.
[*]Both Linux and OS X use Unix-style ownership and permissions, but Ubuntu starts numbering its users at UID 1000 whereas OS X begins with UID 501. This means that ownership will seem to vary between the two OSes, and access may be restricted. You can deal with this by setting ownership and permissions on the filesystem's root and important subdirectories permissively and by adjusting permissions on files so they can be read on the other system; or by adjusting the UID values on one or both systems so that they match. You can adjust UID values in Linux with the usermod utility. There are numerous posts about this topic on this forum, particularly in the Apple users sub-forum.
[/list]


My second choice for a Linux/OS X filesystem would be ext3fs. This will require adding an ext2/3fs driver in OS X. Such drivers exist, but I'm not sure how well they work. You'll have the same permissions/ownership issue with ext3fs as you would with HFS+.

FAT is another option. It's well supported in both OSes, and you won't run into permissions/ownership problems; however, FAT is a poor performer and it has a 4 GiB file-size limit, which can make it unsuitable for some purposes.

---

### Post by bluehz on 2011-08-15
> **srs5694 said:**
> For Linux and OS X use, I'd probably use an *unjournaled* version of HFS+. Linux supports this just fine, and there's even a filesystem check utility for HFS+ available in Linux. (You've got to install an HFS+ support package, though. I don't recall its name offhand.) There are two problems with this approach:


[list]
[*]Linux doesn't provide full and reliable read/write support to the *journaled* version of HFS+. If you use the unjournaled version, it will work fine, but disk check operations will be much lengthier when they become necessary.
[*]Both Linux and OS X use Unix-style ownership and permissions, but Ubuntu starts numbering its users at UID 1000 whereas OS X begins with UID 501. This means that ownership will seem to vary between the two OSes, and access may be restricted. You can deal with this by setting ownership and permissions on the filesystem's root and important subdirectories permissively and by adjusting permissions on files so they can be read on the other system; or by adjusting the UID values on one or both systems so that they match. You can adjust UID values in Linux with the usermod utility. There are numerous posts about this topic on this forum, particularly in the Apple users sub-forum.
[/list]

Yeah I have the HFS+ support in my Ubuntu build - and it works great for read/write - have used it for years. Unfortunately the maintenance routines do not work. I have chewed up more than one HFS+ (unjournaled) and actually lost large amounts of data so I steer WAY CLEAR of those routines/utilities. They might have improved over the years - but I have a bad taste in my mouth for those items.

I already have my UID/GID synced Mac/Ubuntu so that's not really an issue anymore.

> My second choice for a Linux/OS X filesystem would be ext3fs. This will require adding an ext2/3fs driver in OS X. Such drivers exist, but I'm not sure how well they work. You'll have the same permissions/ownership issue with ext3fs as you would with HFS+.

I have done some basic tests with Mac + FUSE and ext3 and there are no immediate problems I have encountered. The FUSE ext3 Mac drivers are definitely listed as beta - so if this was a mission critical drive I probably wouldn't go this route, but since the main purpose of this drive is as a media drive for the server and will only occasionally be attached directly to the Mac I think I will go with your suggestion of ext3.

> FAT is another option. It's well supported in both OSes, and you won't run into permissions/ownership problems; however, FAT is a poor performer and it has a 4 GiB file-size limit, which can make it unsuitable for some purposes.

I ruled out FAT a long time ago as this is a media drive I often backup full dvds too - which breaks the 4G limit.

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-08-15
> **bluehz said:**
> Yeah I have the HFS+ support in my Ubuntu build - and it works great for read/write - have used it for years. Unfortunately the maintenance routines do not work. I have chewed up more than one HFS+ (unjournaled) and actually lost large amounts of data so I steer WAY CLEAR of those routines/utilities. They might have improved over the years - but I have a bad taste in my mouth for those items.

That's unfortunate. I've had no problems with the Linux fsck.hfsplus program; however, I've only used it a handful of times (all in the last year or so). I've never looked into the revision history of the program, so I don't know if there have been improvements in recent months. I do recall that the man page looks as if it was written for OS X and/or Darwin, so I assumed it was a Linux port of the Darwin code.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-08-15
> **bluehz said:**
> I have spent the better part of the past week trying to get this new Western Digital Elements 3TB external HD to work with my Ubuntu 10.0.4 server. I have researched and read about the process until I am blue in the face and still no luck. Specifically this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1536933&highlight=western+digital+3TB](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1536933&highlight=western+digital+3TB)

I know about the Advanced Format used on these WD drives and have followed all the instructions I can find out there. Using parted I can created the GPT partition table, then use mkfs.ext3 to format as ext3 and all is well. Drive mounts and is perfectly fine. As soon as I unplug the drive and plug it back in. Nada! dmesg tells me no recognized partitions on the drive. I have tried parted, gparted, gparted live cd, partedmagic live cd and every other method of formatting this drive but always the same results. As soon as you remove the drive and plug it back in it is unrecognized.

Is there something I need to turn on in the kernel modules to get this to work?

I am pulling my hair out - any advice would be GREATLY appreciated!

I dont think server automatically mounts a USB drive. I had to install usbmount for it to work on my 10.04. Try that

---

### Post by bluehz on 2011-08-16
Ok - something still going on here - I went ahead and bit the bullet and updated to Ubuntu 11.0.4 and I am still having absolutely no luck with this device remounting after an unplug. I have reformatted in 11.0.4 using parted, gparted, and gdisk and the results are always the same. I can mount/unmount all day as long as I don't pull the plug on it. As soon as I pull the plug dmesg reports the usual:

```
[ 1488.188051] usb 1-6: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 5
[ 1488.333094] usb 1-6: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[ 1488.340428] scsi4 : SCSI emulation for USB Mass Storage devices
[ 1488.340582] usb-storage: device found at 5
[ 1488.340585] usb-storage: waiting for device to settle before scanning
[ 1493.340224] usb-storage: device scan complete
[ 1493.342455] scsi 4:0:0:0: Direct-Access     WD       Ext HDD 1021     2021 PQ: 0 ANSI: 4
[ 1493.343102] sd 4:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg4 type 0
[ 1493.364418] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdd] 732566016 4096-byte logical blocks: (3.00 TB/2.72 TiB)
[ 1493.367000] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdd] Write Protect is off
[ 1493.367010] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdd] Mode Sense: 17 00 10 08
[ 1493.367013] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdd] Assuming drive cache: write through
[ 1493.376104] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdd] 732566016 4096-byte logical blocks: (3.00 TB/2.72 TiB)
[ 1493.386110] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdd] Assuming drive cache: write through
[ 1493.386124]  sdd: unknown partition table
[ 1493.434182] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdd] 732566016 4096-byte logical blocks: (3.00 TB/2.72 TiB)
[ 1493.456783] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdd] Assuming drive cache: write through
[ 1493.456794] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdd] Attached SCSI disk
```

---

### Post by bluehz on 2011-08-16
[SOLVED] Ok - go ahead and label me newbie - even though I have used Ubuntu going on 5 years now I think. After some investigation I realized even though I had updated to 11.0.4 - for some reason I was still using an old kernel. Tracked it down to my grub.menu.lst. Turns out every time I have updated since 9.0.x I have been choosing "Keep existing" (since that was the default, safe choice) when upgrading. Thus even though the rest of my system had been upgrading to 10.x and now 11.x - my kernel was actually still stuck at the 9.0.4 upgrade since that's what my menu.lst had in it. Some simple editing of my menu.lst and a reboot and looks like my external drive is humming along nicely now. 

Thanks to everyone who helped with my post I truly appreciate it. I would contend that maybe the default "keep existing" (which is normally the right choice) when upgrading for the menu.lst should maybe default to replace instead of keep. I am no Ubuntu guru - but I have been using linux (starting with Slackware originally) for several years now and I consider myself an above avg user but this issue still bit me. Fairly simple solution but one that might really snag new users who are upgrading.

---

