---
title: "64 bit?????"
date: 2009-09-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by joshh88 on 2009-09-13
So i ran lshw out of curiosity to see all my hardware and saw this.
cpu
          description: CPU
          product: Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU     T5250  @ 1.50GHz
          vendor: Intel Corp.
          physical id: 400
          bus info: cpu@0
          version: 6.15.13
          serial: 0000-06FD-0000-0000-0000-0000
          slot: Microprocessor
          size: 1GHz
          capacity: 1GHz
          width: 64 bits
          clock: 166MHz
capabilities: fpu fpu_exception wp vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe nx x86-64 constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts pni dtes64 monitor ds_cpl est tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm lahf_lm cpufreq


width:64bit and x86-64
does this mean I am 64bit compatible and am i not using my computer to the fullest because I am using 32bit????

---

### Post by pbrane on 2009-09-13
The Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU T5250 is a 64-bit processor. I have a T7250 in my laptop and am using Jaunty 64-bit. I have no problems with it. I actually prefer using a 64-bit OS. It's a bit faster and everything seems to work for me.

As to whether or not you want to use a 64-bit OS read this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=765428]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=765428")

There are a few apps that have not been released as 64-bit, e.g. googleearth, which would require about many additional 32-bit libs to run on a 64-bit OS. So I would suggest that you find out what you need and see if it is available as a 64-bit app. I do have a couple of 32-bit games that run just fine (required one 32-bit compat lib).

---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2009-09-13
> **joshh88 said:**
> 
does this mean I am 64bit compatible and am i not using my computer to the fullest because I am using 32bit????

It does mean you can use 64-bit, but unless you're decently experienced as an Ubuntu user, I don't think I'd recommend using 64-bit rather than 32-bit.

---

### Post by joshh88 on 2009-09-13
I didn't think there would be much of a difference to 64 over 32 can you elaborate. I consider myself ad intermediate user. familiar with the command line and what not been  using Ubuntu for upwards of one year.

---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2009-09-15
> **joshh88 said:**
> I didn't think there would be much of a difference to 64 over 32 can you elaborate. I consider myself ad intermediate user. familiar with the command line and what not been  using Ubuntu for upwards of one year.

The main difference is, if you use 32-bit stuff not from the Repositories (I.E., Emulators, some programs, etc.) it can be a total pain in the butt to get it working on 64-bit since most programs these days are still compiled for 32 bit.

---

### Post by mrbiggbrain on 2009-09-15
> **Mike_IronFist said:**
> The main difference is, if you use 32-bit stuff not from the Repositories (I.E., Emulators, some programs, etc.) it can be a total pain in the butt to get it working on 64-bit since most programs these days are still compiled for 32 bit.

Actualy, 32 bit programs will run on a 64-bit os. thats not at all the issue, the issue is the "OS Hooks". Librarys, and other things need to be able to communicate with the OS, when the OS sends a 64-bit instuction, and the program only can handle a 32-bit instruction,  bad bad things happen.

If i created a program,

```
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main()
{
  cout << "hello world";
}
```

and compiled it on a 32-bit machine, it would run on a 64-bit machine, becuse, there are no hooks that says it cant...

XP64 was well known for this verry issue, it had alot of hooks, and alot of the hooks are handled alot better now then they where when 64-bit was first around...

Still, its not for beginers as some things will need different versions, and the OS is technicly built on 64-bit code.

---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2009-09-16
> **mrbiggbrain said:**
> Actualy, 32 bit programs will run on a 64-bit os. thats not at all the issue, the issue is the "OS Hooks". Librarys, and other things need to be able to communicate with the OS, when the OS sends a 64-bit instuction, and the program only can handle a 32-bit instruction,  bad bad things happen.

If i created a program,

```
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int main()
{
  cout << "hello world";
}
```

and compiled it on a 32-bit machine, it would run on a 64-bit machine, becuse, there are no hooks that says it cant...

XP64 was well known for this verry issue, it had alot of hooks, and alot of the hooks are handled alot better now then they where when 64-bit was first around...

Still, its not for beginers as some things will need different versions, and the OS is technicly built on 64-bit code.

Yeah, I was referring to the installation of Libraries.

---

