---
title: "8.10 wacom input in dual monitor setup does not encompass the whole of either monitor"
date: 2008-11-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by anomalous_underdog on 2008-11-16
I have two monitors and a Wacom Bamboo Fun. Each of my two monitors are set to run separate x screens (not TwinView).

When the cursor is in the first monitor, and I move my stylus to the left area of the tablet, it goes to the left half of my first monitor properly, no problem.

But when I move my stylus to the right side of the tablet, the cursor jumps to the right half of my second monitor. It never reaches the right half of my first monitor.

Likewise I can never point my stylus to the left half of my second monitor (not that I care), since it jumps to the other monitor's left half instead.

Back in 8.04, the workaround is to set the stylus' mapping (or tracking, I forgot which property) to the first x screen, instead of "Desktop" via wacomcpl.

With 8.10, wacomcpl cannot detect the tablet anymore (the program simply shows a window with blank contents), so this fix does not work anymore. Are there any solutions to this problem?

EDIT: I edited the xorg.conf file so it acknowledges the stylus input, however even if I set the screen mapping to screen 0, it still happens.

Turning mmonitor off solves the problem (by entering these command in the command line):
xsetwacom set stylus mmonitor off
xsetwacom set eraser mmonitor off

This essentially makes the stylus stuck in one screen (which is how I like it). If you want the stylus to be able to reach both your monitors, see the bug report in the launchpad.

---

### Post by anomalous_underdog on 2008-11-16
The bug report is here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/298707](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/298707)

---

