---
title: "Neomagic driver in XUbuntu 8.04 help needed"
date: 2008-08-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by grumpyk on 2008-08-08
Hi,

I'm trying to piece together an old laptop for a needy family and I could use some help with the xorg.conf configuration.

It's a SONY PCG-F540 (P3 500, 256MB) that should be ok to run with XUbuntu (don't want too lightweight a distro as the mom needs to go to coffee shops and the like to get free wifi / on the internet. I like the friendliness of XUbuntu's wireless tool and I'm sure I can show her how to use it.

It runs snappily enough except its using a VESA driver (I think) and not the Neomagic driver that is already installed in the machine (I checked in package manager and it's there.) Scrolling a webpage with any dort of graphics is painful and pegs the cpu.

I'm not unfamiliar with modifying an xorg.conf file but mine is practically blank. This is what is currently running (successfully) on the laptop right now:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


Any help in getting the neomagic driver enabled would be greatly appreciated by me and a whole family excited about the idea of actually having a computer.

Thanks,

Ken

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-08-08
Open a terminal from Applications > Acessories and enter this > sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg pick out the correct driver, save and restart X. (Ctrl+Alt+backspace)
See more video guides [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video#Webcams").

---

### Post by grumpyk on 2008-08-08
[HTML]Thanks for the quick response!

No Joy though.

home@home-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg 
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080808185333
home@home-laptop:~$ 

Nothing happened other than the warning. Any ideas.


[/HTML]

---

### Post by grumpyk on 2008-08-09
So, I tried the last statement in X and in a straight terminal sesion. In an X windowed terminal; all I get is the overwrite warning. It gives me no options or other prompts.

In a straight terminal session, It brings up a configuration screen that asks ONLY the following:


     Do I want to enable framebuffer?
     Do I want to configure the keyboard?

No other configuration options.

It seems that there is a newer version of xorg that doesn't need or use the xorg.conf. How would I modify that?

---

