---
title: "[12.04] Laptop won't shut down properly"
date: 2012-05-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Simon280586 on 2012-05-04
Hi there, 

Just upgraded to 12.04 and after the restart, I shut down the laptop (from the start menu, and not sleep mode). I came back a while later and noticed that it was very hot underneath and the back fan was still running, even though all the lights were off. Pressing the power button lit it up for a second, but nothing else happened. I had to disconnect the power cable and remove the battery to power everything down.

I tried again and the same thing happened. Any ideas? The laptop is a Dell M1530, and it didn't have any problems shutting down in 11.10.

---

### Post by namik on 2012-05-06
I have the exact same problem Dell Inspiron 1520

---

### Post by svega85 on 2012-05-07
Yeah, same problem here with a Dell 1420 :/

---

### Post by mzunguInKenya on 2012-05-07
on ac my HP laptop shuts down just fine, but if i have the battery in it only restarts, hope that a solution is found soon, because my battery wont charge in the laptop now the only way to get it to shut down is to remove the battery.

---

### Post by Retuar on 2012-05-08
Same here with a Dell Vostro 1400

---

### Post by layo on 2012-05-08
I experience a similar problem on a Dell Latitude D830: I click shutdown, the screen goes blank, all indicator lights turn off, except power indicator and numlock indicator. The fan keeps running. I have to press and hold down the power button to turn off the system.

---

### Post by namik on 2012-05-08
The interesting thing is when I try to switch to tty (ctrl+shift+F1) the screen goes blank too. I guess you experience the same thing! 

P.S. you can return to your desktop again with Ctrl+Shift+F7

---

### Post by davewp196 on 2012-05-10
I've the same problem, but how can I find out where the error is in the system shutdown sequence?

---

### Post by Decimus62 on 2012-05-10
I'm having the same problem on a Lenovo T61p Thinkpad.

---

### Post by songhk on 2012-05-10
For me, desktop PC also has same problem. When I click the shutdown button, it restarts.  I should type command manually to shutdown as follows:  sudo shutdown -h now

---

### Post by ghiasi on 2012-05-11
shutdown your computer by terminal.

sudo shutdown -h now

or if you want reboot it use

sudo reboot

---

### Post by GammaPoint on 2012-05-11
> **Decimus62 said:**
> I'm having the same problem on a Lenovo T61p Thinkpad.

Yes, my Thinkpad T61 doesn't shut down either. I have to hold the power button a bit to get it to actually turn off. Xubuntu 12.04 for me.

---

### Post by misterblobby on 2012-05-12
I had the same problem on an Asus laptop. It started after installing the temperature monitor, and seems to have gone away after removing it.

---

### Post by Felipe_U on 2012-05-12
I have the same problem with mi Dell Studio 1569, when I shut it down, it goes to the purple Ubuntu screen with the loader bar and stays there forever. Also Ubuntu freezes completely from time to time. This has been happening to be since 11.10.

Any pointers where I can see the shutdown logs or freeze logs.

Regards,
Felipe

---

### Post by namik on 2012-05-15
> **ghiasi said:**
> shutdown your computer by terminal.

sudo shutdown -h now

or if you want reboot it use

sudo reboot

This doesnt work!

---

### Post by xubermensch on 2012-05-16
I have been having the same problem with my latitude d630. I shut down my computer, but it doesn't completely power down.

---

### Post by doctorb12 on 2012-05-16
The same problem with my xubuntu 12.04 and Dell Vostro 1500 :mad:

---

### Post by Pontus Ohman on 2012-05-16
This also happens on a Ubuntu 12.04 LTS x64 server... :mad:

---

### Post by namik on 2012-05-20
bump

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-05-20
I have this fairly longstanding bug in 12.04, filed specifically about a Dell 1330m, (8400m GS) but may apply to other Dell laptops

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/940564](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/940564)

In short - 
After a number of restart/shutdown cycles from a fresh install then restarts/shutdowns fail to complete. The display is turned off but the laptop is not powered down. Additionally many times while in a session or at the greeter screen switching tty's just produces a blank screen

Resolution possibilities - 
I only see this on a 32 bit, re-installing 12.04 64 bit fixes

Switching from nvidia drivers to nouveau appears to also solve, not completely tested because I've no interest in nouveau on this laptop

Downgrading the nvidia driver to the 290.XX package also fixes here - 
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/290.10-0ubuntu2](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/290.10-0ubuntu2)

---

### Post by Browncoyote on 2012-05-26
I experienced this problem an update seemed to fix it, then after a fresh install the problem reappears. I have fully updated and this is still happening. Freezes on restart and/or shutdown.

---

### Post by kenju4u on 2012-05-26
Same here...I have a dell vostro 1500 with a Nvidia GFORCE 8400 GS I uninstalled the nvidia drivers, restarted and everything worked fine until i reinstalled. I installed the latest driver 295.53

---

### Post by GammaPoint on 2012-05-26
With my laptop sometimes it will power down just fine and sometimes it won't. I *think* (haven't been really scientific about it yet) that it will power off correctly if I have restarted it once between shutdowns. If I don't, then it won't. But not sure.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-05-27
> **kenju4u said:**
> Same here...I have a dell vostro 1500 with a Nvidia GFORCE 8400 GS I uninstalled the nvidia drivers, restarted and everything worked fine until i reinstalled. I installed the latest driver 295.53
try any of the suggestions I made in comment 20

---

### Post by carsten888 on 2012-05-27
I had the same issue with a toshiba tecra 8100. Updating the bios solved the issue.

---

### Post by namik on 2012-05-28
Realized lately that after each update I can normally restart my PC. But on the next boot I have again the same issue.

---

### Post by doctorb12 on 2012-07-08
I can't find solution of this bug already second month. Meantime the best to install nvidia 290.10 but this is not correct solution. I'd like to install last nvidia driver but it provokes hated bug. Is it forever?!:confused:

---

### Post by doctorb12 on 2012-07-24
up!

---

### Post by GammaPoint on 2012-07-24
The issue is still intermittent for me. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. Strange...

---

### Post by treeingwalker on 2012-07-24
Lenovo IdeaPad S10 Intel GPU, I am having this problem as well.

Any updates on this obnoxious problem?  It's a pain to do it from the terminal all the time.

---

### Post by earthsmurf on 2012-07-24
I have the same problem on a Acer Aspire 5560, it hangs on shutdown and reboot.  I have an ATI Radeon HD 6520G graphics card.

---

### Post by doctorb12 on 2012-07-26
I've installed nvidia 304.22 situation is not improved! :(

---

### Post by gifford on 2012-07-26
Do all of the devices in this thread have Nvidia graphic cards?

---

### Post by mkolakow on 2012-07-26
I, likewise, have been having problems since I upgraded to Ubuntu 12.04.  I have a Lenovo Thinkpad T61 laptop.  The system reports the graphics card as being a Quadro NVS 140M.  And the driver is 295.40.

The symptom I have is that shutdown will not fully complete.  The fan (and who knows what else) continues to run.  I have to finish it by doing a hard shutdown with holding the power button for 5 seconds.

I am looking for a solution to this or even an easy way to switch nvidia drivers.  Can someone point me in the right direction?

Thanks,
Michael

---

### Post by mkolakow on 2012-07-26
As an update, I tried the following:

edit /etc/default/grub to add either acpi=on or acpi=noirq.

Neither of those worked.

However, doing a

"shutdown -h now"

from the terminal worked great!  Of course you need to be root or sudo.  As I am not afraid of terminals, this is fine by me.  But I will continue to look for a better answer.

My point is to try those and see if they work for you.  I hadn't tried the shutdown, because I saw so many people saying it didn't work.

---

### Post by Hanmyo on 2012-07-31
"sudo shutdown -h now" did not work for me

I am on a T61 Lenovo laptop with Nvidia drivers

---

### Post by mkolakow on 2012-07-31
And it's no longer working for me either.  I also tried "init 0" to no avail.

It seems that shutdown -h now or init 0 will also kill the fan -- but the battery light remains on.  It's not until I hold the power button that it goes out.

selecting "shutdown" from the menu does NOT kill the fan.  The fan will remain running if I do this.

Anyone have any bright ideas?

---

### Post by marzulfark on 2012-08-03
I too, have the same issue with nvidia video, which appears to be a common theme. This gave me an idea to try the "Additional Drivers" control panel to select an alternate driver provided there. Let's see if that does the trick.

[IMG]http://i.minus.com/ikZ8vKvhLMo5k.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by marzulfark on 2012-08-03
> **marzulfark said:**
> I too, have the same issue with nvidia video, which appears to be a common theme. This gave me an idea to try the "Additional Drivers" control panel to select an alternate driver provided there. Let's see if that does the trick.

[IMG]http://i.minus.com/ikZ8vKvhLMo5k.png[/IMG]

Looks like this was the problem... no issue rebooting/shutting down after using this nvidia driver:

[IMG]http://i.minus.com/ibnK7ads6DBWDa.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by CyberRaven on 2012-08-04
I had a similar problem (fan kept running after menu shutdown).

Seems like marzulfark's solution worked for me, too: After switching from Nvidia driver "version current" to the "version 173", shutdown appears to work like it should.

I'm on a ThinkPad T61 with a graphics card listed as "NVIDIA G86 [Quadro NVS 140M]", running 32 bit Kubuntu 12.04 (3.2.0-27-generic-pae).

Thanks!

---

### Post by mkolakow on 2012-08-12
The nvidia driver change appears to have worked for me.  Thanks!

---

### Post by doctorb12 on 2012-08-19
Some answer from launchpad 

"I had the same problem at my Dell Vostro 1500 with NVidia GeForce 8400M GS with both nvidia-current driver and latest driver from NVidia official site. The problem was solved for me using nvidia-current driver by disabling PXE-boot ability for LAN at BIOS. If somebody has Wake-on-LAN (WOL) setting (Dell Vostro 1500 doesn't) - try to disable both PXE and WOL. Hope this will be helpful for somebody. "

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-session/+bug/987220](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-session/+bug/987220)

I tried it no affect. I'm not sure about connection PXE-boot ability and NVidia bug. I continue to use nvidia driver 290.10.

---

### Post by Deepak J on 2012-08-19
I did have a problem like this, but in that case, an error was shown, saying I don't have permission to shutdown.

But a hard restart solved the issue..

---

### Post by dardakal on 2013-02-23
Installation of nvidia "current-updates" drivers fixed this problem on my Lenovo T61.
Also there was no problem when I tried nvidia 174-updates drivers.

---

### Post by luishasbon on 2013-03-31
Im having this issue also, with an acer 5560 sb 613 quadcore a8 3500m amd hd 6620G GPU. Have tried acpi=noirq  and acpi=off non of them worked.

---

### Post by eddieg538 on 2013-04-10
An update to nvidia 304.88 from xswat on launchpad has fixed this problem for me.

---

