---
title: "9.10 Karmic on Acer Aspire One"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by darkwalt on 2009-11-03
Since they closed down the last one, I thought that I would make it again, since we all need to talk about our AAOs and their problems.  

Has anybody changed the hardware in their AAO other than the ram?  I want to change the PCIe Mini wireless card to one that supports wireless N.  Does ubuntu even have the software support for that?

---

### Post by jgolightly on 2009-11-03
Ubuntu 9.10 on my Acer Aspire One ZG5 here.  Everything is working great with the exception that my boot time in 9.04 was 0:50 and my boot time is now 1:50 or longer under 9.10.  Anyone else experiencing a similar issue?

---

### Post by teh603 on 2009-11-03
I tried Karmic (clean install with reformat) on my ZG5, and I migrated back to Jaunty, for reasons I posted on the Jaunty thread but might as well post here:

* Issues with the card readers being totally dead, instead of functional when a card is inserted before boot
* No sound at all
* Installer problems causing GRUB Errors 17 and 22, which I don't know how to fix
* Issues with my cell modem (Basically, having to choose between AT&T's MediaNet or DataConnect, and getting extremely unreliable performance with each compared to Jaunty)
* Excessively long boot time, even on Xubuntu (plus Xubuntu's seeming inability to access a remote computer via FTP), as well as a rather "messy" boot splash
* Software Center doing exactly nothing instead of installing or removing software

---

### Post by DavidOC on 2009-11-04
I'm using Ubuntu 9.10 on my Aspire One A150L.  The internal microphone isn't working right with pulseaudio and a few other programs but works with Sound Recorder and arecord.

---

### Post by krimzonstarr on 2009-11-04
Been using Karmic since the RC about 2 weeks ago on my AAO (can't recall the model number) with the standard HD and 1gb ram, no SSD. Everything works out of the box except the internal mic, and I have never had a use for that anyways. Still trying to get kuki's/sickboy's kernel working to improve power management, but very pleased so far.

Much less painful than any other Ubuntu install, laptop or desktop. Good luck to you, keep looking, I have seen tons of fixes around the forums!

---

### Post by darkwalt on 2009-11-04
Let us know how the sickboy kernel works out for you.  I've been cautious about using it since I had a bad experience back in 8.10.

---

### Post by CDR Services on 2009-11-04
Had pretty much the same thing on my aa1 might be because of the ssd had serious issue with ext4 partitioning runs great from the flash drive but oddly the sound and onboaed mic worked fine way better than in jaunty!

---

### Post by krimzonstarr on 2009-11-05
Ok, so no luck at all with sickboy or kuki kernel. The kuki kernel will not compile whatsoever on my AAO, and the sickboy will not recognize my encrpyted /home, or my ext4 /. I guess I will stick with the vanilla ubuntu kernels until I can get KernelCheck working again.

Was really hoping for a custom kernel for the AAO to try and speed up my boot time. Still, having no issues with anything except the flash causing a system lockup during full-screen, no internal mic, and the webcam is having issues with the aspect ratio being off. Still, I stand by the point that Karmic has required far less fixes than any other Ubuntu for my AAO.

---

### Post by Whatever Whoever on 2009-11-07
Hi, people!

**[This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263231&postcount=14")** might apply also here.

---

### Post by darkwalt on 2009-11-09
> **Whatever Whoever said:**
> Hi, people!

**[This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263231&postcount=14")** might apply also here.

Ah, yes.  You're talking about tnkgrls mods.  I want to do a ZIF hard drive in mine, but I guess that'll have to wait.

---

### Post by londonali1010 on 2009-11-19
Any of you with an SSD tried to do a minimal install from USB? I tried multiple times last night and kept getting input output errors on my ssd. 

Background: I have been running Crunchbang, got myself into a kernel panic I couldn't fix, so took the opportunity to reinstall. Reinstalled Crunchbang Lite so I could make the mini.iso stick, then tried to install Ubuntu. I still haven't managed to get it to work, and as we speak, I'm reinstalling Crunchbang again. I'm also considering doing a Jaunty minimal install and upgrading to Karmic. 

Does anyone have any thoughts, or know what could be causing the io error?!

---

### Post by Peeved Chemist on 2009-11-19
> **londonali1010 said:**
> Any of you with an SSD tried to do a minimal install from USB? I tried multiple times last night and kept getting input output errors on my ssd. 

You may be experiencing a rather nasty Karmic bug.  See [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/445852](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/445852) for some more detail.  If you're experiencing this bug, your best bet is probably to stay away from Karmic for now.  

If you **really** want to get Karmic to install, try adding kernel option 'irqpoll' when booting the installer.

---

### Post by darkksyde on 2009-11-20
Mine works perfectly fine with the stock hardware

---

### Post by londonali1010 on 2009-11-20
> **darkksyde said:**
> Mine works perfectly fine with the stock hardware

What?  SSD and all?

My I/O error was corrected with a
```
dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sda bs=512
```
but I've gone back to #! 9.04.1...I'd like to try Karmic again, but I'm scared!

---

### Post by SIR_Arrentela on 2009-11-22
I have a 9.10 netbook, its better, more stable, but i have some problems with memory cards.


The wireless and Network is working well
The 3G Dongle reconize well the micro sd memory inside

But the Memory Cards does not recognize well...
Anything to help discover the problem?

Any output you need?

---

### Post by Aearenda on 2009-11-26
Inspired by [bug 331130]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/331130"), I have just found that using the PulseAudio Volume Control to decouple the left and right microphone channels on my AOA-150, and then setting one channel to zero and the other to max (it doesn't matter which), makes the built-in microphone work with the current Skype beta and Karmic!

---

### Post by Mike_Longbow on 2009-11-28
How did you managed to decouple the mic channels? I can't find the options in the sound preferences.

---

### Post by Aearenda on 2009-11-28
1. Install the package 'pavucontrol' using Synaptic Package Manager, or by ```
sudo apt-get install pavucontrol
```
2. Find 'PulseAudio Volume Control' on the 'Sound & video' applications menu, and start it.
3. Click on the 'input devices' tab. 
4. Click on the padlock icon to uncouple the sliders for 'Internal Audio Analog Stereo'.
5. Move one of the sliders all the way to the left, and one all the way to the right. (I minimised the Front Left slider, and maximised the Front Right.)
6. Close the control and that's it!

The padlock icon gets reset every time you start pavucontrol, but the sliders stay as set unless you touch them again so that's all right.

EDIT: I think you can do it with alsamixer as well, which is always installed. So here is an alternative way:
1. Start a terminal session from Applications->Accessories->Terminal
2. Type 'alsamixer' (without the quotes) and press <enter>.
3. Press the <tab> key to select the 'Capture' view.
4. You should now see the 'Mic boost' and 'Capture' settings.
5. Press Z until the left side of the 'Mic boost' channel is zeroed.
6. Press E until the right side of the 'Mic boost' channel is maximised.
7. Press the <cursor right> key to select the 'Capture' channel.
8. Press Z until the left side of the 'Capture' channel is zeroed.
9. Press E until the right side of the 'Capture' channel is maximised.
10. Press <esc> to quit alsamixer.
11. Press <ctrl> and d to exit the terminal.

I **know** the pavucontrol way works. I **think** the alsamixer way works.

---

### Post by krimzonstarr on 2009-12-04
Well, after the kuki/sickboy kernel failures, and a bunch of other "hacks" to get my ZG5 working how I want it, I finally found a "fix."

Wifi drops bandwidth whenever I am using a lot of speed, this is an improvement over the frequent hard lockups/kernel panics I was suffering before.

SD cards work hotswap in both readers with pciehp.pciehp_force=1 added to grub.

Screen resolution under cheese and vlc fixed with xrandr addition from [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne/Ubuntu9.10]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne/Ubuntu9.10").

Most importantly, most of my problems have seemed to resolve after upgrading to kernel 2.6.32-020632rc8-generic. I can't remember exactly where I found it, but performance and stability has greatly improved.

Note on the video playback resolution... Use VLC. Whenever I attempt to play video under any other external player, it is "squished" on the sides, and unable to change the size. Under VLC "it just works."

Additional issues I'd like to see resolved: When using multiple bandwidth hogs: video msn chat, torrents, firefox... my wifi will suddenly drop to Zero transfer rate. I can either wait it out (usually about 2-3 minutes) or disconnect/reconnect to my AP. Also have the same problem on all the gnome checkemail apps.

Overall, I am pretty happy with Karmic on my AA1 ZG5. Good luck, and give the kernel listed above a try, it seemed to work wonders for me! YMMV ;)

---

### Post by rainingcats on 2009-12-06
HEY THANKS! Aearenda I have been having so much trouble with my mic and it's been iritating.

---

### Post by svasilis on 2009-12-09
Hello!

I recently upgraded to 9.10 Desktop and I am quite happy with it!
Have no problems at all - even the right hand side ssd reader works!(with that minor tweak that has been around since 9.06).
Only problem I have is with gnome-power-manager. I tried the tweak at the Community Ubuntu Documentation for Acer Aspire and 9.10 ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne/Ubuntu9.10](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne/Ubuntu9.10)), but it only worked for one session. Funny thing is that when I run the commands in a terminal window it works. Do you know how I can get the two commands to be executed every time I start up the netbook?
Plus, have you got any speed problems when transferring files to (any) external media? It usually starts at something between 12 to 18 Mbs/s and goes down to 1,6 Mbs/s or even as low as 500 Kbs/s.

Edit: Power Manager problem solved: I had to remove '-e' from the first line of rc.local file. Speed problems anybody?

Thanks!

---

### Post by darkksyde. on 2009-12-09
All works here.

---

### Post by Xyphoid on 2009-12-09
> **krimzonstarr said:**
> Additional issues I'd like to see resolved: When using multiple bandwidth hogs: video msn chat, torrents, firefox... my wifi will suddenly drop to Zero transfer rate. I can either wait it out (usually about 2-3 minutes) or disconnect/reconnect to my AP. Also have the same problem on all the gnome checkemail apps.



Installed 9.10 (dual boot with Windows 7) on my AAO A150. Got the same Wifi problem as Krimzonstarr.

Boot time is around 50 sec after doing:
[http://undacuvabrutha.wordpress.com/2009/11/09/still-not-happy-with-the-speed-of-your-boot-in-9-10/]("http://undacuvabrutha.wordpress.com/2009/11/09/still-not-happy-with-the-speed-of-your-boot-in-9-10/")
But that's almost the same as Windows 7.

As for video:
Compiz and Emerald are working and looking great!
Scrolling in Firefox is a little laggy.
I can't get Flash working in fullscreen without lagging (but that's up to Adobe) and can't watch 720p .mkv files (works in Windows 7. But it's probably because I use CoreAVC).

It these problems are solved in Lynx, then I will be a happy camper (without windows), 'cause everything else works OOTB...

---

### Post by bailout on 2009-12-23
I have just tried installing karmic on my aao (ZG5). The screen size is correctly identified but all the fonts are large and xdpyinfo reports the resolution as 133x135 dpi.

I first got this when I tried installing a custom xfce install using the mini iso to the harddrive. Thinking it was probably a mistake I made when installing I also tried with a kubuntu 9.10 live usb. This gives the same problem. I can't find any reference to anyone else having this problem.

thanks

---

### Post by kencamargo on 2010-02-01
> **Aearenda said:**
> Inspired by [bug 331130]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/331130"), I have just found that using the PulseAudio Volume Control to decouple the left and right microphone channels on my AOA-150, and then setting one channel to zero and the other to max (it doesn't matter which), makes the built-in microphone work with the current Skype beta and Karmic!

I cannot express how thankful I am and how utterly surprised I also am that this actually works!

I had spent months trying to get skype working in my desktop to no avail, until I gave in and added a sound card (I couldn't get the onboard to work, no matter what - not even the soundrecorder worked). When I started experiencing the same problems with my netbook, I was ready to give up, and I decided to give this a shot not trusting it would work.

How surprised I was... :)

Again, thanks!
Ken

---

### Post by mafutha1 on 2010-02-02
Fix works on Linux Mint 8, who would have thought something so simple would work. Linux never ceases to amaze me!!:D

---

### Post by lsbe on 2010-02-02
I have a D250 and everything works fine.
was a bug when you unplug or plug in power it would go to standby twice..... changing the close screen option to "blank screen" fixed that tho.
also the indicator light for Wifi does nothing but Wifi works perfectly.
running stock except for the 2GB RAM upgrade.
SuperOS 9.10

---

### Post by kwstas on 2010-02-05
> EDIT: I think you can do it with alsamixer as well, which is always installed. So here is an alternative way:
 1. Start a terminal session from Applications->Accessories->Terminal
 2. Type 'alsamixer' (without the quotes) and press <enter>.
 3. Press the <tab> key to select the 'Capture' view.
 4. You should now see the 'Mic boost' and 'Capture' settings.
 5. Press Z until the left side of the 'Mic boost' channel is zeroed.
 6. Press E until the right side of the 'Mic boost' channel is maximised.
 7. Press the <cursor right> key to select the 'Capture' channel.
 8. Press Z until the left side of the 'Capture' channel is zeroed.
 9. Press E until the right side of the 'Capture' channel is maximised.
 10. Press <esc> to quit alsamixer.
 11. Press <ctrl> and d to exit the terminal.

thank you! it worked on my 4810t.

i am a little worried though because i noticed that the mic is always active...
do you think it could effect anything? maybe the batterie's life i guess.

---

### Post by Aearenda on 2010-02-05
> am a little worried though because i noticed that the mic is always active...
do you think it could effect anything? maybe the batterie's life i guess.It's only really 'active' when there is a program listening to it - and this isn't Windows, so we know what every program running is intended to do, it being open source. Yes, the hardware is always on, and it takes a little power, but I don't think it's dangerous. You can always mute it in Alsamixer or in the Pulseaudio settings if you are concerned about privacy.

---

### Post by saint_s on 2010-02-06
I'm not sure where I should post this, so I'll put it here for now

The cardreader in my aspire one (aoa 150) is the jmb38x series, and I have never had the xD card reader working enough to read xD cards - this has been frustrating because I happen to have a camera which uses xD cards.

This is all the more annoying because the default linpus install does have the xD card working .....

I stumbled across what appears to be the linpus device driver source whilst googling about my problem. (ubuntu poland) [URL="http://forum.ubuntu.pl/showthread.php?p=641947"]http://forum.ubuntu.pl/showthread.php?p=641947
[/URL] 
I have patched it so builds against the current karmic kernel (2.6.31-17)

[ATTACH]146260[/ATTACH]

Regards
saint_s

---

### Post by rigg79 on 2010-03-03
> **Aearenda said:**
> 1. Install the package 'pavucontrol' using Synaptic Package Manager, or by ```
sudo apt-get install pavucontrol
```2. Find 'PulseAudio Volume Control' on the 'Sound & video' applications menu, and start it.
3. Click on the 'input devices' tab. 
4. Click on the padlock icon to uncouple the sliders for 'Internal Audio Analog Stereo'.
5. Move one of the sliders all the way to the left, and one all the way to the right. (I minimised the Front Left slider, and maximised the Front Right.)
6. Close the control and that's it!

The padlock icon gets reset every time you start pavucontrol, but the sliders stay as set unless you touch them again so that's all right.

EDIT: I think you can do it with alsamixer as well, which is always installed. So here is an alternative way:
1. Start a terminal session from Applications->Accessories->Terminal
2. Type 'alsamixer' (without the quotes) and press <enter>.
3. Press the <tab> key to select the 'Capture' view.
4. You should now see the 'Mic boost' and 'Capture' settings.
5. Press Z until the left side of the 'Mic boost' channel is zeroed.
6. Press E until the right side of the 'Mic boost' channel is maximised.
7. Press the <cursor right> key to select the 'Capture' channel.
8. Press Z until the left side of the 'Capture' channel is zeroed.
9. Press E until the right side of the 'Capture' channel is maximised.
10. Press <esc> to quit alsamixer.
11. Press <ctrl> and d to exit the terminal.

I **know** the pavucontrol way works. I **think** the alsamixer way works.

:popcorn:  

I registered just to say thank you for this awesome post.  I installed Ubuntu Netbook Remix 9.10 on my ZG5 Acer Aspire One a couple of days ago and almost everything worked right out of the box except the internal mic and the card readers.

I found a script to get the card readers working pretty quickly, but the nothing I found regarding the mic worked until I tried what you advised and now both sound recorder and Skype work perfect!

This is my first foray into Linux and so far I'm really loving UNR.  Forums like this really help a noob Windows user like me, so thanks again :D

---

### Post by Aearenda on 2010-03-03
Rigg79, I am so glad you are enjoying using UNR! Switching away from Windows requires a bit of persistence in finding different ways of doing things, and it appears you have that persistence, so I think you'll do well. Good luck!

---

### Post by Xyphoid on 2010-04-09
Has anybody got Adobe Flash working without choppiness on the Acer?? I tried every tweak I could find on the net, but still no luck...Even tried a minimal install, but still crappy Flash.
I don't understand how people with Linpus can surf the internet, the internet being 90% Flash...
In XP I can watch 480p Flash movies and 720p mkv files without problems...

---

### Post by yelvington on 2010-04-10
Flash on Linux is poorly optimized and the Atom-based netbooks all struggle with Flash video. One option is to install Chrome (which is WAY faster than Firefox) and view native HTML5 video on sites that support it (Vimeo, YouTube).

---

### Post by Jarige on 2010-04-10
I don't think the Linux Chrome version supports html5 yet. It's still in beta stage I think, and I didn't get html5 working. I tried in on Youtube, by going to [www.youtube.com/html5](www.youtube.com/html5) but I never got it.

---

### Post by simbeb on 2010-04-14
> **Xyphoid said:**
> Has anybody got Adobe Flash working without choppiness on the Acer?? I tried every tweak I could find on the net, but still no luck...Even tried a minimal install, but still crappy Flash.
I don't understand how people with Linpus can surf the internet, the internet being 90% Flash...
In XP I can watch 480p Flash movies and 720p mkv files without problems...
 
Ubuntu has its own integrated flash plugin installed by default. If you have the Adobe Flash plugin (the best one and the one you should have), make sure you have the Linux one uninstalled or disabled. That worked for me!

---

### Post by Jarige on 2010-04-14
And you should note that the 8GB SSD in the Acer Aspire One ZG5 (which I think is the one you have, right?) is utterly rediculous. It is very, very slow. You could buy an upgrade FEM32GF13M. Also, I would add an extra GB of RAM memory, since 512MB isn't really that much.
If you are unsure about opening that tiny thing, there are youtube vids with tips. And you could of course go to some local hardware vendor. This upgrade definately did a huge change to my netbook. It responds very, very well.

---

### Post by Xyphoid on 2010-04-15
I have the 160Gb Harddisk with 1 Gb Ram version.
I have deinstalled all other flash plugins and tried the newest from the Adobe site. I even tried the Beta from Adobe, but still no luck.
Anywayzzz, thanx for the tips!
I'll try Lynx when it comes out, but until then it's XP for me...

---

### Post by Jarige on 2010-04-15
Ah, okay. Pity, then that's not gonna work.

But since you don't have the slow 8GB SSD, you shouldn't have such problems. I hope Lucid will fix the problems (although I don't think it will). Adobe Flash player on Linux is very poor made. Thank Adobe for it -.-

It's about time that html5 comes into play in a decent video format. VP8 will probably be released as an open standard with no fees. Youtube will probably use that standard, and Firefox too. I hope the problems will be gone by then, but that might still take a long time.

---

### Post by amillionsheep on 2010-05-02
Many Kudos to post #18. That solves all the problems with no mic on AspireOne D250's using Skype 2.1.

Cheers~

---

### Post by mbadzi on 2010-05-04
Hi,

I finally got around to trying to sort out the xD card reader on my Acer Aspire 110 & Ubuntu 9.10.  This issue is still alive under various bug reports but I couldn't find a complete solution.  Lucid Live USB didn't fix it so haven't upgraded yet.

The pceihp_force=1 boot options mentioned in other posts don't seem to help.  I managed to patch the kernel (based on the two pciehp patches from Fedora fc12) but I'm still trying to work out a sensible way to keep it in sync when it gets updated.  Alternatively, I just use the standard kernel with a card plugged into the right hand slot at boot time.  

Either way works well enough for SD cards (except for mounting via the gui) but still doesn't have xD support.  

The driver mentioned above builds ok but doesn't appear to work with the later kernels, 2.6.31.12 in my case, and dmesg reports software timeouts and sector errors.  The posting [http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?pid=2847027](http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?pid=2847027) #10 by maman has an updated version for the .31 and .32 kernels.

Unzip, make, make install and now I can see my xD card as /dev/xd_card0 and /dev/xd_card0p1.  An icon appears in the Files and Folders tab but does not seem to mount when clicked.  Manually mounting it with 

sudo mount -t vfat /dev/xd_card0p1 /mnt/xd 

does the trick so I suspect the problem of mounting via the gui is now a different one, and probably the same issue as with SD cards.


Regards

---

### Post by wyliecoyoteuk on 2010-05-09
A tip for Skype

I had the same issues with the internal mic, and solved it with the tip above about pulse adio volume control, but I found that Skype was very quiet.
In the Skype audio settings, untick "allow Skype to automatically adjust my mixer levels"

I have an AA1 110L SSD, I recently upgraded it to 1.5Gb, wireless-n, and a 16Gb SSD.
The biggest performance increase was from the Memory upgrade, and the Wifi upgrade allows me to stream video smoothly from my MythTV box. I obtained them both for less than UKP10 each from fleabay.
The most expensive upgrade @ UKP60, was the SSD, although being rated as 40/80, doesn't really seem to make that much difference. apart from apps loading faster.

adding the elevator=noop and noatime settings to grub and fstab makes it boot and shutdown a lot quicker

My card reader and the extra storage slot work fine, but I only use SD cards.

---

### Post by avacado on 2010-10-21
Thanks post 18
I have edited [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks#preview](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks#preview)
to reflect this solution

I am checking launchpad for relevant bugs

Acer D260 with 2GB RAM

---

