---
title: "v20.04 has blocked 2nd Monitor, Need proper driver for ASUS Nvidia GT610"
date: 2021-07-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2021-07-26
GPU: ASUS Nvidia GeForce GT610 w/2GB DDR3 Ram

Mobo:
MSI 990FXA-GD65 v2R

CPU:
AMD FX-8320 Vishera 8 core

Recently upgraded from UbuntuStudio 18.04 to 20.04. After restart and next update, 2nd Monitor is ignored. 
Previously (in v18.04) it was using (in Software Updates/Additional Drivers) "Nvidia Metapackage from nvidia-driver-390 proprietary, tested".
Now it is checked "continue using a manually installed driver", Nvidia GF119. Assuming it got it from either the ISO or online when installing v20.04. All other options are greyed out and unselectable!!!

When opening  Settings / DISPLAY  - Wrong Resolution and can't select higher correct one. Also via Advanced Tab, "Configure new displays when connected", and "automatically enable profiles when display is connected" is checked.

Proper drivers here? [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-390/390.144-0ubuntu0.20.04.1]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-390/390.144-0ubuntu0.20.04.1")  

And Synaptic shows already installed ... How to ACTIVATE it ??? How can I update the driver for my GPU when the OS (snap?)  has blocked me out???

HELP ... Thanks!

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2021-07-26
This is what I find when running;

```

~$ ubuntu-drivers list
WARNING:root:_pkg_get_support nvidia-driver-390: package has invalid Support Legacyheader, cannot determine support level
nvidia-driver-390
nvidia-340


```

How can I fix this???

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2021-07-26
Wow.. Sometimes I amaze myself ... don't know exactly what I did, but a number of things.

1. No Driver for latest kernel. Had to roll back to previous kernel 5.8.0.63 lowlatency.
2. First had to make Grub show upon boot (modify Grub)
3. installed all related to nvidia 390 following binary pkgs here [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-390/390.144-0ubuntu0.20.04.1]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-390/390.144-0ubuntu0.20.04.1")
4. Shut down, restart
5. In repositories Software Updates / Additional Drivers selected "Nvidia driver metapackage 390 proprietary, tested"
6. Shut down, restart - selecting via Grub / Advanced kernel 5.8.0.63 lowlatency
7. Went into DISPLAY made settings for Resolution good in both monitors, and placed them accordingly.
8. Shut down, restart.

However, both displays ONLY work with the kernel option of 5.8.0.63 lowlatency .. NOTHING else.

Is there anything we can do to prevent having to "roll back" to previous kernel EVERY day upon Boot-up?

---

