---
title: "Gt 330m"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Styx993 on 2010-05-26
I just installed Ubuntu 10.04 on my friend's Sony Vaio F11J laptop, and we've been having trouble with X11.

The problems all have to do with the Nouveau driver.  I would like to remove it completely, until it is ready for general use (currently it isn't IMO).

Anyway, Nouveau refused to detect the proper resolution for his screen (it set it to the maximum his card could support).  I manually set it, and then the screen's contents were stretched vertically so that we couldn't see the bottom of the screen.

Since Nouveau wasn't working, I installed the proprietary drivers.  It did absolutely nothing.  I found that the Nouveau kernel module was being loaded, so I disabled it.  It was still being loaded, so I removed the nouveau.ko file.  X11 complained, so I removed the nouveau_drv.so file.

I believe I got X11 to quit complaining about Nouveau, but it still doesn't work.  Currently, the NVIDIA driver won't naturally load.  It says something about no screens having a good configuration.  When I use an xorg.conf, the laptop screen goes blank, and I have to shut the computer off and turn it back on (it is still responsive though, since I don't have to hold the button down).  There is no output from the HDMI port, but I believe that it might be outputting something from the VGA port.

Anybody have any ideas on how I can get X11 working?

---

### Post by Styx993 on 2010-05-27
bump for great justice

tried [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showpost.php?p=2118873&postcount=22](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showpost.php?p=2118873&postcount=22).  computer now will not boot.  freezes at splash screen.

---

