---
title: "9.10 doesn't mount usb sticks"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Hesediel on 2009-10-31
i have istalled 9.10 KK 64bit it was working fine but now when i insert a usb pen drive the system doesn't mount it. 
The usb stick is recognized by gparted and the disc tool but not mounted.
I have deleted the system and installed it again but same problem.

---

### Post by vmrocha on 2009-10-31
I have the same problem.

---

### Post by Hesediel on 2009-10-31
my pc is a Acer 6930G the pendrives are not broken so the usb drives

> **vmrocha said:**
> I have the same problem.

are u using a 64bit version?

I am trying some experiments with live 64 and 32 bit 
it seems to be a problem of 64 bit version but i am not sure

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-10-31
There seem to be quite a few of these threads around relating to laptops and automounting of USB drives.  In particular, I draw your attention to this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305165&page=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305165&page=1).  

Karmic does seem to see the drives are connected: if you type *lsusb* in the command line it will list all of the devices connected to the USB.  So long as the USB drive is listed, the drive can be mounted to any directory of your chosing by using the *mount* command.

---

### Post by Hesediel on 2009-10-31
i installed 32 bit...and isn't question of...so still and same problem..

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-10-31
> **Hesediel said:**
> it seems to be a problem of 64 bit version but i am not sure

Karmic 64-bit is automounting a USB pendrive quite OK here on my Sony laptop. So it's not an issue that affects 64-bit Karmic on all machines, although I accept this could be a Karmic problem.

First - how many pendrives have you tried? Are you sure it's not a failing one that's giving you problems?

Second - what filesystem is on the pendrive? The one that mounted OK on my machine is formatted FAT32.

Third - are you able to test on another machine using the 64-bit live CD? At least that way you can see whether this is a problem with Karmic on your Acer.

---

### Post by Hesediel on 2009-10-31
No isn't a 64 bit problem. I have installed the 32 bit version and the problem is still there.

I tried 2 different pendrives (FAT 32) and the problem is on all of them. 
My brother has another laptop, ubuntu 9.10 32 bit, the same i have installed, and no problems there, the pc mount the usb pen perfectly.

It is strange because on lsusb the drive is recognized, so is recognized by gparted and the disk manager 
This is what disk manger display
[[img]http://img515.imageshack.us/img515/6214/screenshotpalimpsestdis.th.png[/img]](http://img515.imageshack.us/img515/6214/screenshotpalimpsestdis.png)

If i open gparted and on the drive i do Check the system mount it..
If i insert the usb pen drive and start the pc whit it in, then when ubuntu starts the pen is mounted 

this thing is going to make me crazy because it is a problem that makes the system not usable for me..but i want it :(

i apologize for my english..i'm italian, i am doing my best to write correctly

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-10-31
OK. Thanks for the information. So - the problem exists in both 32 and 64-bit.

I still think it would be interesting to see if the pendrives that fail to automount on your Acer with Karmic can be automounted on another machine. It may be that there's some issue with the USB controller in Acer machines interfering with the automount process. Or at least on your particular model.

I don't know - I'm just theorising here.

Your English is fine. :) A million times better than my Italian would be.

---

### Post by Hesediel on 2009-10-31
My brother has a CDC laptop and the same pens are mounted in his pc.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-10-31
> **Hesediel said:**
> My brother has a CDC laptop and the same pens are mounted in his pc.

Then it must be a problem with Karmic on your particular machine. Which doesn't really help you that much.

Apart from doing a manual mount each time (does that work?) I don't know what else to suggest - sorry. But it would be a good idea to file a Launchpad bug about this.

---

### Post by rneindorff on 2009-10-31
I have a usb drive formated FAT32 used on a Dell Windows XP Pro desktop that I have just used to move files from XP to my newly upgraded (9.04 -> 9.10) Dell D620 dual boot laptop without any problems.  The stick automounted on 9.10 and all files were visible and accessible.

---

### Post by Hesediel on 2009-10-31
> **coffeecat said:**
>  But it would be a good idea to file a Launchpad bug about this.

how can i do that?


all of that is strange...some times it mount them, but generally not

If insert a cd it will automounted and then i do that, if i insert the pendrive it will automounted!

---

### Post by KazukiFlame on 2009-10-31
i have exactly the same problem. only that my usb mounts IF i set it to auto login, then it will see the usb drive. but as soon as i pull it out, it won`t mount again. this is very serious, as i have a lot of work stored in my usb stick n i can`t work bcoz of this. from what i read so far, this is not an isolated case as almost everyone else have this problem.

---

### Post by Hesediel on 2009-11-01
> **KazukiFlame said:**
> i have exactly the same problem. only that my usb mounts IF i set it to auto login, then it will see the usb drive. but as soon as i pull it out, it won`t mount again. this is very serious, as i have a lot of work stored in my usb stick n i can`t work bcoz of this. from what i read so far, this is not an isolated case as almost everyone else have this problem.

Yes the same problem...you can still mount it manually, i have made two terminal launcher on the desktop for mounting. I made a folder on the desktop so in the luncher i have

sudo mount /dev/sdc1 /home/hesediel/Desktop/Usb 

and another  umount /dev/sdc1

but i still have to put the root password in the terminal...this is the only way...
Yeah it is a big problem, because usb it is too important, and i use always usb pens, i hope this problem will be fixed soon

---

### Post by gpstar on 2009-11-02
same problem for me. eSATA and USB will not automount. 64bit karmic on a system76 bonp2 laptop.

a workaround to the problem

sudo stop udev
sudo start udev

then usb/esata/sd card reader can now automount/hotswap.

---

### Post by Hesediel on 2009-11-03
> **gpstar said:**
> a workaround to the problem

sudo stop udev
sudo start udev

then usb/esata/sd card reader can now automount/hotswap.


Ok that works, it can be a temporaneus fix for problem, now the question is:

It's possible to create a launcher that includes the strings 


sudo stop udev
sudo start udev

If i make it and executable in the terminale, this will open asking the root password. I would like to make a launcher included root password, so i can include that on startup application

Today i have updated the system, with a update for udev, the problem semms to be fixed. 

It's so for you all?

---

### Post by unclethrill on 2009-11-04
I have the same problem. 

Everything worked fine in 9.04. I upgraded to 9.10 and usb will not automount. I can manually mount but I can't do that for my cell phone so I can't get the pictures off it. 

I did a clean install of 9.10 on another computer and those same drives work fine on that one so I did a fresh install on the broken computer to no avail.

I'm been searching for days now and have tried every fix I can find.

stop udev/start udev  -- does nothing
gnome-volume-manager  -- does nothing
removing the 20-storage-methods file from hal and restarting hal -- this works a little. The usb drives are found and mounted the first couple times then it just stops working
gpartd -- doesn't help


I'm up to date on all updates and still nothing.


I just don't understand why it is affecting some and not others. What is the common factor in all that it is broken on???

---

### Post by deceptor on 2009-11-04
> **Hesediel said:**
> Today i have updated the system, with a update for udev, the problem semms to be fixed. 

It's so for you all?

 Which version do you have? I'm having udev 147~-6.1 (karmic proposed) and it's not automounting my usb drive. I tried stop udev, start udev but it didn't work either.  Edit: I had to start hal manually by 'start hal'. But I don't know why it wasn't started automatically.

---

### Post by gpstar on 2009-11-04
the udev update in the karmic proposed fixed the problem for me now.

---

### Post by guiwegian on 2009-11-04
how to update udev plesae???
Using a command 
Thank you

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-11-04
> **guiwegian said:**
> how to update udev plesae???
Using a command 
Thank you

If I read gpstar's post correctly, he/she has enabled the proposed repository to get the proposed version of udev. All stuff in proposed is for testing. Before you enable the proposed repo, have a look at this:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuUpdates](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuUpdates)

Particularly:

> Enabling the proposed updates repository can break your system. It is not recommended for inexperienced users.

If you do not know how to enable the proposed repository without further help, I strongly advise you not to, and wait until a udev update filters through the regular updates.

---

### Post by guiwegian on 2009-11-04
Thank you I am just doing it, I let you know what will happen.
Thank you anyway

Well, It was actually up to date, so I am absolutely hopeless now.
I get my external hard drive working, but none of my pendrive are working....
Really confusing.
Any ideas ???

---

### Post by Hesediel on 2009-11-04
> **guiwegian said:**
> Well, It was actually up to date, so I am absolutely hopeless now.
I get my external hard drive working, but none of my pendrive are working....
Really confusing.
Any ideas ???

uhm my pendrive are all working now..

---

### Post by symon1980 on 2009-11-04
I can confirm this bug with usb's not automounting... running karmic 32 bit myself....

im trying an update from proposed repo, i see it contains an update for udev.... so i'll post back...

Yes... updating proposed which contained udev 
Fixed this Problem. 

i hope they roll this update out soon to the main updates.... This bug is unforgiveable for a new user who isn't aware

can the author of this thread please mark this SOLVED ;) :D

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-11-05
> **symon1980 said:**
>  This bug is unforgiveable for a new user who isn't aware

I really do have to pick you up on this comment. It reflects a lack of awareness of the complexity of OS development.

First of all, this bug affects only a small minority of users of Karmic. If it affected more, believe me, these forums would be awash with threads about this problem. Automount of USB flash drives works just fine for me in Karmic with **four** machines - has done since alpha testing. The bug could very well be hardware-dependent. Trouble is there is an almost infinite variety of combinations of hardware out there which Ubuntu strives to work with. Ubuntu gets a large amount of testing during the development phases but, obviously, this will be on a more limited range of hardware than when it goes to final release. With exposure to a wider range of hardware and users, there are **always** more bugs to be found in **any** Linux distro and in **any** OS. Even MacOS, which has to work on a limited range of hardware. Did you hear about the bug affecting Snow Leopard which destroyed user data? That was only found after release.

Karmic has been released to final for **only seven days**. Personally, I think it's a tribute to the hard work of the developers that a bug fix is being tested so soon, but perhaps I am more forgiving than you. :wink: Hopefully, it will appear in the regular updates very soon.

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-11-05
I agree with you almost entirely coffeecat.  The hard work that is required to put together an operating system that is entirely universal, insofar as it will work on any machine, is colossal.  And what continues to astound me is how good linux distributions generally are given they are put together by volunteers from around the world who do this out of passion rather than for the salary.  

That being said, I think what symon1984 meant was that it is unforgiveable that something which worked for everyone in Jaunty is broken for some in Karmic.  I personally cannot understand why my automounting broke after I updated from Jaunty to Karmic but it did.  I have also encountered other issues - some solved, some unsolved - associated with my update from Jaunty to Karmic, again issues that I wouldn't expect.  Now, I don't code operating systems and I only code and script just what I absolutely have to for work-related reasons so I am quite ignorant of the nuts and bolts contained "under the hood" of an OS like Ubuntu.  But for people such as myself, it doesn't make any sense for something which did work before to be broken upon updating to a newer system.  

That all being said, I'd like to reiterate that I do have enormous repect for everyone who puts together Ubuntu and other Linux operating systems, and in general I do have a fair amount of patience with bugs in Ubuntu as fixes are always out quickly.  =)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-11-05
Thank you for responding so thoughtfully, Lateralis.

I chose to reply to symon1980 mostly because he used the word "unforgiveable". It is very harsh and sounds unreasonable - imo. If he had chosen another word, I would have had less of an issue with him. For instance, try "perplexing", "alarming", "frustrating", "annoying", "bewildering", "discouraging" or "off-putting" in the sentence, "This bug is <*insert word*> for a new user". But "unforgiveable"? I think not.

And yes, to have something not work in Karmic which had worked in Jaunty is <*insert any of those words*>. But not, please, "unforgiveable".

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-11-05
On that I think we agree entirely, coffeecat!

---

### Post by netopalis45 on 2009-11-05
i am using karmic 32 bit on my desktop and my netbook, and having problems with mounting the usb drives on the desktop but not the netbook. the light still comes on but it is not mounted. any ideas?

---

### Post by guiwegian on 2009-11-05
I am afraid guys, but I a running 9.10 on 32 bit and even with the update of udev, I have still the same problem.no automount, it doesnt even detect the pendrive.(I have 5 pendrive and none work...)

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-11-05
Stupid question, but just to be thorough and explicit... what version of udev do you guys have?  (If you don't know how to check this, go into the Synaptic package manager and search for udev.)  The version I have is "147~-6.1" and this update from the proposed repository (has seemingly) fixed my automount issues.

---

### Post by guiwegian on 2009-11-05
I v just done a reinstall, update everything, udev as well, still the same problem.
I v read a few post for the past 2 days, nothing has worked so far.

---

### Post by symon1980 on 2009-11-06
> **coffeecat said:**
> Thank you for responding so thoughtfully, Lateralis.

I chose to reply to symon1980 mostly because he used the word "unforgiveable". It is very harsh and sounds unreasonable - imo. If he had chosen another word, I would have had less of an issue with him. For instance, try "perplexing", "alarming", "frustrating", "annoying", "bewildering", "discouraging" or "off-putting" in the sentence, "This bug is <*insert word*> for a new user". But "unforgiveable"? I think not.

And yes, to have something not work in Karmic which had worked in Jaunty is <*insert any of those words*>. But not, please, "unforgiveable".


Point taken....  probly sounded a bit harsh... and I didn't mean it to sound that bad.... But I was merely picturing in my mind users from windows migrating over to Ubuntu for the first time, choosing the latest ubuntu, Installing it.... and then not being able to get Their Work done Because of this Problem... then thinking "ubuntu is crap" and going back to windows as they probably think it is more reliable......

not being able to mount your usb stick is a Hugggeeee Deal in ANY operating system.. What a Major hassle that would be to a new user coming to linux for the first time....  and like somebody else pointed out... why did it work in jaunty... and now doesn't work in karmic? that shouldn't have happened....:mad:

Ahwell... in saying all this I don't mean to be rude in the slightest... I DO actually appreciate all the work the Community Do to give us all a Great FREE Operating System.

---

### Post by adonis827 on 2009-11-06
my sandisk cruzer flash drive that was working in ubuntu 9.04 is not working in kubuntu 9.10 64 bit and ubuntu 9.10 32 bit. 

but my external hard drive does get automounted. 

I may have to revert back to 9.04 because I also am not able to make skype work (not getting any messages cannot call any contacts etc but that is another topic). 

I haven't tried any fix in here because it seems like there is not a confirmed fix yet.

update: sorry spoke a little soon. tried out udev from proposed. rebooted. my flash drive mounts again

automounting of usb stick seems to work after update of udev from proposed- at least my sandisk cruzer. still testing though. 

> **adonis827 said:**
> my sandisk cruzer flash drive that was working in ubuntu 9.04 is not working in kubuntu 9.10 64 bit and ubuntu 9.10 32 bit. 

but my external hard drive does get automounted. 

I may have to revert back to 9.04 because I also am not able to make skype work (not getting any messages cannot call any contacts etc but that is another topic). 

I haven't tried any fix in here because it seems like there is not a confirmed fix yet.

update: sorry spoke a little soon. tried out udev from proposed. rebooted. my flash drive mounts again

credit goes to the posters in here

[http://greatwebhost.com.ph/blog/2009/11/07/your-flash-drive-not-auto-mounting-in-ubuntu-kubuntu-maybe-xubuntu-too-9-10-32-or-64-bit/](http://greatwebhost.com.ph/blog/2009/11/07/your-flash-drive-not-auto-mounting-in-ubuntu-kubuntu-maybe-xubuntu-too-9-10-32-or-64-bit/)

---

### Post by guiwegian on 2009-11-11
Hi Guys, I have done all what you guys did and My usb pen are not recognise AT ALL, they dont appear in udev, nowhere....
I v got all my usb peripheral working, external HDD, keyboard, mouse, wireless and bluetotth dongle and my mobile phone but usb sticks.
Any Idea???
Cheers

---

### Post by Nevermore on 2009-11-11
same situation, doesnt mount usb stick, nor my camera.
Tried the ubuntu-proposed but is still not working..
any workaround?

---

### Post by ChrisBieda on 2009-11-19
It does seem odd that a problem with UDEV that requires fixing so soon after the release of Karmic made it out of beta; can anyone here who **currently** has this problem speak from experience of having tested a beta release (or the Release Candidate)?  Did flash drives automount or not?

I have yet to install Karmic on any 32-bit machine that will automount a flash drive out of the box (that is, using the distributed LiveCD system without modification or updating); as many writers have pointed out, not so on Jaunty.

Users of earlier versions of *buntu may recall an Administration menu for Removeable Media that dealt with the treatment of USB devices; if automounting USB is the intended behavior of Karmic (and subsequent releases) and UDEV cannot make it out of beta doing so reliably, it may be time to take (yet) another approach: Neither of the two so far tried work well.

Incidentally, I sat out this beta cycle (bad dog, no biscuit for you), so I am as culpable as anyone in not making sure that UDEV worked "out of the box" (perhaps we in *buntu-land should say instead "off of the disk," though my second-grade teacher would cringe to hear me say "off of").  But if UDEV didn't have the problem before "RC" turned into "R," that's a problem; it's also a problem if "RC" and earlier versions of Karmic had it, but no one LaunchPadded a bug report.

Amen to writers who say that this is exactly the sort of problem that would sour a noob on *buntu.  It is inexcusable from Canonical's perspective (not the community's) because IT, unlike the community, is in a competition: It's 100% invested in *buntu (no *buntu, no Canonical); the community can abandon ship at any time for another distro (no *buntu, no problem).

In case ANYONE cares, some sample systems that wouldn't work right included an HP zv5000 laptop (P4, etc.), an ancient whitebox (Celeron 566), a five-year-old Celeron (2.53gHz) sitting on an Intel mobo.  It's a pretty wide spread of mainstream and obscure.

---

### Post by netipot on 2009-11-20
I also have a problem with usb drives on my MSI wind using Karmic. It will recognize my wireless mouse with a usb plug but none of my usb drives and I have used 4 different kinds. It also won't recognize my camera using a usb or the memory card. I'm thinking of going back to jaunty.

---

### Post by guiwegian on 2009-11-21
Hi guys, it is me again, I bought two webcam, theu are working out of the box, but I still cannot see my usb pen, still undetected, 
For informations one of my usb pen contains a ubuntu 9.04 and I can boot on it
so my usb are alive and working fine.I dont know what wrong with Karmic, updating Udev didnt change anything for me
Help please
thx

Hy guys 

My problem is fixed.
For some strange reason, when I booted my usb pen with ubuntu 9.04 installed on, something happened, I dont know what,but now all my usb sticks are mounting automatically, even my external hard drive that was slow got back to normal.so if you guys experiment the same problem of undetected usb pendrive, may woth a try...
Thx for you guys

---

### Post by kjkrum on 2009-11-21
Yesterday I tried using a USB card reader for the first time with Karmic, and it wouldn't automount.  But I installed a bunch of bugfix packages this morning, and now it works.  Hopefully one of those packages fixed it, and it's not some weird intermittent thing.

Data transfer seems *extremely* slow, though...

---

### Post by Robertjm on 2009-11-23
Something definately must've fixed this as I did a fresh install of Karmic today and the USB drives weren't automounting. I got home tonight and was reading the boards to try and resolve this issue and noticed my Bluetooth USB adapter was flashing. Seeing that I stuck my USB drive in and it automounted!!

---

### Post by zsugiart on 2009-12-05
All, I got mine solved by doing 

1. disconnect everything
2. rmmod usb_storage
3. wait for about 10 sec
4. modprobe usb_storage

credit goes to a cool dudde in #ubuntu in irc.freenode.net, can't remember hsi name.

Not sure if the latest patches have got this solve or not, but those manual step fixes the usb problem for me.

---

### Post by micklock on 2009-12-09
Hi,
I had the same problems on 9.04 (64-bit) and updating from the proposed repository helped. Even before I restarted my system, my MuVo automounted and works just fine. 8-)
Thank you guys for advice, I always find help in ubuntu forum ;) .

M.

---

### Post by Dubbayoo on 2009-12-11
I just noticed this problem on 64-bit Karmic, first time I've tried to use a USB stick. After a reboot everything seems to work. Doesn't seem very fast though but that could be perception. 7.5-9.0MB/sec transfers on a 16GB Flash Voyager.

---

### Post by ardillla on 2009-12-12
I had the same problem, after one of the recent updates the pc did no longer recognize usb storage devices. At first, I could still mount the devices manually, although this is like in the early days of Linux and usb. A bit later (after a reboot) this also ceased to work and my log was flooded with
> Dec  9 16:12:25 xxxxx kernel: [ 1873.104256] usb 1-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 54
Dec  9 16:12:32 xxxxx kernel: [ 1880.000462] usb 1-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 90
Dec  9 16:12:41 xxxxx kernel: [ 1889.360276] usb 1-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 13 Solutions given in this thread did not work; however, disabling ehci_hcd did [http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Problem_with_USB_2.0](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Problem_with_USB_2.0)
I used the solution (putting > echo -n "0000:00:1d.7" > /sys/bus/pci/drivers/ehci_hcd/unbindin rc.local.
Interestingly, sudo modprobe -r ehci_hcd also did the job, whereas sudo rmmod ehci_hcd did not.
ardilla

---

### Post by adonis827 on 2009-12-12
anyone with the problem of leaking pulseaudio after upgrading udev?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1334307](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1334307)
[http://greatwebhost.com.ph/blog/2009/11/07/your-flash-drive-not-auto-mounting-in-ubuntu-kubuntu-maybe-xubuntu-too-9-10-32-or-64-bit/](http://greatwebhost.com.ph/blog/2009/11/07/your-flash-drive-not-auto-mounting-in-ubuntu-kubuntu-maybe-xubuntu-too-9-10-32-or-64-bit/)

---

### Post by Lukas666 on 2009-12-13
> **Hesediel said:**
> i have istalled 9.10 KK 64bit it was working fine but now when i insert a usb pen drive the system doesn't mount it. 
The usb stick is recognized by gparted and the disc tool but not mounted.
I have deleted the system and installed it again but same problem.

Same problem here. Karmic 64bit. Auto mounting used to work freshly after installation but stopped several days ago (and I mean the same physical USB stick).

running udev 147~-6.1. Restarting udev did not change anything. Palimpsest Disk Utility can see the drive as /dev/sdb1

L.

---

### Post by alexbia on 2009-12-22
> **ardillla said:**
> I had the same problem, after one of the recent updates the pc did no longer recognize usb storage devices. At first, I could still mount the devices manually, although this is like in the early days of Linux and usb. A bit later (after a reboot) this also ceased to work and my log was flooded with
Solutions given in this thread did not work; however, disabling ehci_hcd did [http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Problem_with_USB_2.0](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Problem_with_USB_2.0)
I used the solution (putting in rc.local.
Interestingly, sudo modprobe -r ehci_hcd also did the job, whereas sudo rmmod ehci_hcd did not.
ardilla

I've upgraded my Advent (MSI Wind clone) netbook yesterday,  from Ubuntu 9,04 to 9,10. USB flash drives stopped working.

The upgrade created two options in the boot menu: loading Karmic Koala 9,10 with older kernel 2.6.28-11, or with newer kernel 2.6.31-16

When I boot with kernel 2.6.28-11: the touchpad, sound, and compiz effects do not work, but the USB pendrives are automounted.

When I boot with kernel  2.6.31-16: the touchpad, sound, and compiz effects do work, but the USB pendrives are not automounted.

Adding this line to file /etc/rc.local as suggested, solves the USB problem:

echo -n "0000:00:1d.7" > /sys/bus/pci/drivers/ehci_hcd/unbind

I've also commented-out the line, to just verify that the problem reappeared, and uncommented it to have automount working again.
[FONT=Verdana]
[/FONT]Be sure to first find the PCI device number of the EHCI controller for the echo command, as follows:  lspci | grep -i ehci

In my case: 00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)

My doubt now is whether this is a hardware or a software failure. The USB drives work well with Windows XP and Ubuntu 9,04 Netbook Remix, which I have installed in other partitions of the same disk.

Take into account that: "removing or disabling the ehci_hcd means that USB devices will run at USB 1.1 speeds, which is supported by pretty much every USB device for backwards compatibility. This is not a problem for USB Keyboards and Mice as they are typically USB 1.1 anyway, but for USB storage devices it can slow things down dramatically."

Thanks to ardilla for the tip.

---

### Post by jerome.lep on 2010-01-07
Hi:
Same problem BUT: 
- From 3 different usb sticks, only 2 cannot be not automatically mounted
- I check this son 3 different laptops running with Ubuntu 9.10 32 bits, 9.10 64 bits  and more strange, one running Ubuntu 9.04 not updated since at least 2 months
- I tried several of the previous proposed solutions in particular the previous one "echo -n "0000:00:1d.7" > /sys/bus/pci/drivers/ehci_hcd/unbind" but that functions only for a while then I enable this instruction and the USB automatically mounts! 
a rather confusing problem...

Once again: 
- I apparently fixed the problem with the second usb stick formating it using gparted.
- In my (not expert) opinion this problem is not due to the ubuntu release because as I mention previously, a version 9.04 not actualised sin november was also unable to automount the usb sticks !

---

### Post by tlcstat on 2010-02-01
Greetings,
Ubuntu Karmic 9.10 Kernel 18 32bit
Has anyone actually found a solution to this problem? Neither my USB drives nor my CD/DVD will auto mount. They show up in Palimpsest Disk Utility and I can mount them there. They will then dismount from the desktop. Any help appreciated.

Found this on a forum somewhere and it worked!
open synaptic package manager
reinstall
hal and gvfs
if you are using xfe desktop also reinstall Thunar
install [if not already installed]
gnome-volume-manager
gnome-mount
gnome-device-manager
gvfs-backends [not sure if this is actually needed]

REBOOT!

---

### Post by arngrimur on 2010-02-13
Well , not solved, at least at a MacBook dual Core running Karmic 9.10 , kernel 2.6.31-19-generic #56-Ubuntu SMP.

It is possible to mount it from /dev/sdb1 
```
sudo mount -t vfat /dev/sdb1 /mnt/usbstick 
```

---

### Post by tlcstat on 2010-02-15
Greetings,
If reinstalling the programs above doesn't fix it. Open a terminal and enter,

sudo stop udev
sudo start udev

also install Dolphin file manager. When you open Dolphin you will see an address box with a blue icon with the image of a house inside. Click on that icon and see if your usb drives show up when you plug them in. If Dolphin is recognizing the drives then click on them and see if they appear on the Desktop. After you do this for each drive and they mount on the Desktop you should be fixed. If Dolphin isn't finding them let me know and I will go back through the steps and see whats missing.
tlcstat

---

### Post by Trinity33 on 2010-03-19
ok in my ubuntu 9.10 at the beginning just after fresh install usb flash was recognised without any problem. then after some updates etc dont know really why it stopped. when i plug my usb 8gb flash palimpsest disk utility says deivce 8gb unreadable bla bla bla. i didnt know what to do. when i plug and reboot then usb is recognised as long as i dont unplug it cos when i unplug it and plug it again then again ubuntu 9.10 wouldnt see it. the solution to it i found was update udev to 6.10 and udevlib then my usb was recognised without problem:). i got another issue after update udev to 6.1 my cpu usage went to 40%:) hahahah. where normally is around 0 to 2%. next i downgraded just udev to 6.0 and wow cpu usage is ok around 0 to 2% and usb still recognised. so its working now. someone should check udev whatever there must be some bug cos after update it uses a lot of cpu. i had the same problem when i wanted to update upgrade everything from synaptic. then after reboot i got kernel 2.6.31.20 but with 50% of cpu usage. maybe cos of udev i didnt know what the issue was so i reinstalled karmic and doesnt upgrade or update anything anymore unless important.

---

### Post by dreville on 2010-04-21
> **tlcstat said:**
> Found this on a forum somewhere and it worked!
open synaptic package manager
reinstall
 hal and gvfs
 if you are using xfe desktop also reinstall Thunar
install [if not already installed]
 gnome-volume-manager
 gnome-mount
 gnome-device-manager
 gvfs-backends [not sure if this is actually needed]

REBOOT!

This worked for me!!!! Thank you!!!
64-bit Ubuntu 9.10 karmic Koala and using a Patriot 32GB XPorter usb stick which automounted and showing in Nautilus proper permissions, owned by me and not root.

---

### Post by astarmathsandphysics on 2010-04-23
I have the same prob. xsnae wont run the scanner. Bif problem for me

---

### Post by tchekyfelb7 on 2011-01-09
> **tlcstat said:**
> Found this on a forum somewhere and it worked!open synaptic package managerreinstallhal and gvfsif you are using xfe desktop also reinstall Thunarinstall [if not already installed]gnome-volume-managergnome-mountgnome-[[COLOR=#000000]device[/COLOR]](http://www.rersoft.com/rmvb-file-extension/convert-real-player-files-to-vob.html)-managergvfs-backends [not sure if this is actually needed]REBOOT!I tried it and it's all right, Thanks a lot! Here is also the same case, I've been looking for the answer for long time.

---

