---
title: "Failure to boot"
date: 2009-02-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ericalex on 2009-02-23
Hi, 
I'm new to Ubuntu and new to the forum, please be kind.
Yesterday I installed Ubuntu on a Fujitsu Siemens S series Lifebook, a clean install on a hard drive formatted using Boot 'n Nuke with no real problems.
At first the computer wouldn't boot, the message during POST being 'no operating system found'.
This was fixed by disabling fast boot in BIOS and the laptop then booted perfectly into Ubuntu, until today!
During Post the boot sequence failed, the error mesage being (sorry it's a long one):
[I]'Boot from hard drive (hd0,0) ext3 804952bc-39ef-4e7b-81d0-d08feb2d58fa
[0.508302]ACP1:Aborted because bad gzip magic numbers
[2.3504621]Kernel panic-not syncing:VFS:Unable to mount root fs on unknown-block(0,0)'[/I]

I've booted the computer from the Ubuntu disc and the hard drive shows up in 'computer' with space taken up by the original Ubuntu installation. However, in the BIOS the hard drive is shown in the main tab, with all its sectors etc, but under the boot sequence tab the hard drive is named but listed as 'not installed'.

If anyone can shed some light on this I'd be very much obliged 'cos we all think Ubuntu is great, we're ex Windows converts!

---

### Post by Bad Processor on 2009-02-23
Hmm... Kernel Panic... If I'm right that's an equivalent to a bluescreen. I know this is probably of absolutely NO use to any living soul on the planets and beyond, but something must be *causing* that kernel panic on every startup. Have you been fiddling with the booting-up stuff recently? Installed\uninstalled anything? Sorry if this isn't helpful, I'm new here too, but I can at least provide *this* help. Hope this solves something.

 -- **BP**

---

### Post by ericalex on 2009-02-23
Thanks for the interest but no I've not been fiddling, this morning it booted fine and all I've done today is download Avast anti-virus, but I haven't yet installed it so I can't see that as a problem. Come to think of it I did shut the laptop lid at tea time today, I'd set that to indicate hibernate and the boot problem, or rather the lack of boot, seems to have come about since then - could this be related to other posts re recovering from hibernation?

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-02-23
This is probably suspend/hybernate related, you'll have to search around for a solution.

Insofar as restoring to a usable desktop, try this thread:> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1060406](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1060406)
You should be able to get into recovery mode at start-up by selecting the appropriate option in grub.

---

### Post by ericalex on 2009-02-23
Thanks for that, but what is grub?
There are no options as I can see at start-up, the POST hangs with the error message I gave before.

---

### Post by Squid Spectre on 2009-02-23
Grand Unified Bootloader, GRUB. Its what loads the kernel into memory and effectively starts the linux boot process.

Though judging by that error message you're well past the POST message generated by your BIOS chip. When you bootup watch for a message similar to the lines of "Press 'x' to enter GRUB setup" (where 'x' could be anything I forget) and that should give you a list of available kernels and options.

I can't say I've ever seen that specific message before but it sounds like there could be some node corruption, maybe due to the hibernate recovery issue, that could be breaking a check bit process and preventing a boot. If you can get to that GRUB option screen try selecting a "Recovery Mode" kernel and running a "fsck" on your hard drive. That may very well repair the broken node, if that is in fact the problem.

---

### Post by ericalex on 2009-02-23
No option to enter the GRUB setup shows at POST, the error messages come after POST and I've tried running the recovery mode in a command line from the live CD but it says, 'not found'.

---

### Post by Squid Spectre on 2009-02-23
Sounds like the boot partition or the GRUB loader itself may have been corrupted or improperly modified. If that is the case the outlook is grim.

I would advise trying to reinstall GRUB first and moving forward with the plan mentioned earlier first, but I understand how difficult it can be to work with GRUB manually so you may be forced to try something else.

I've never tried it but you may just be able to mount the hard disk under the live cd environment and run a "fsck" being as how the root UIDs should be the same it should probably at least let you run the process. However, this could be something that would be regarded as "bad practice," I couldn't begin to imagine the consequences, if any at all.

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-02-26
If you're not seeing a grub menu at boot time, then your grub menu.lst is probably set up as hiddenmenu.

Open the hard-drive from the liveCD, open a terminal and enter:> sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lstenter your password, then look for the lines that read:>  ##hiddenmenu,  (it should be near the top),
#Hides menu by default
hiddenmenuand comment out the third line, (hiddenmenu), with a # so a kernel list and  options menu appears at startup.

---

### Post by ericalex on 2009-03-03
First off, thanks to all for your replies but I think I've solved the problem which is related to recovery from hibernation.
The computer was set to hibernate when the laptop lid was shut, which is what caused the subsequent boot failure. I've re-installed Ubuntu and changed the power options to 'no action' when the lid is closed. Apart from the slight inconvinence of not having hibernation available, which I can live with, there are no other associated problems and Ubuntu now works like a dream.:D
I'm not going to attempt to solve the hibernation issue, from reading other posts in seems I'm not alone in having problms with this, for now all is good so I'm marking this post resolved.

---

