---
title: "Konica Minolta printer crashes if prints from 12.04"
date: 2012-05-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by WHiZZi on 2012-05-04
Hi all,

We have a very strange problem here at the office where we use Ubuntu as desktop (current 15 work places).

We ran 11.10 without any major problems. We have 3 printers in our office and they all worked without any issues. So, upgrading to 12.04 we didn't expect much issues either.

Well, miscalculation here. We ran into a huge problem with one of the printers, a Konica Minolta C280 (using either the standard C360 driver or C252). In 11.10 and before these worked without any problems but since the upgrade the **printer** crashes if printed from any Ubuntu 12.04 machine. It doesn't matter if it's upgraded or freshly installed, the printer litteraly crashes if any printing command is given.

I downloaded the "latest" drivers from Konica itself (from [this location](http://onyxftp.mykonicaminolta.com/download/SearchResults.aspx?productid=1249)) but these do exactly the same, let the printer crash.

Under 11.10, it still works (after a restart of the printer if a 12.04 Ubuntu has printed)! The other (HP) printers are still working and only this Konica-printer is causing problems which occured after the upgrade or fresh installs of Ubuntu 12.04. What can cause this? What is so changed in the way of printing that it actually let a printer crash (over the network!) while the driver doesn't seem changed at all. It's our main printer and I really want this printer running...

EDIT: Obviously I already contacted Konica for this, but they're not that deep into Linux as far as I know.

---

### Post by mcblades on 2012-05-04
Hi

I have had a similar problem with a konica-minolta 4750EN.  Worked flawlessly in 11.10 but NOT in 12.04.

After a lot of faffing I think the problem is the way cups 1.52 is implemented in 12.04 (version 1.50 is in oneiric).  I have been in discussionwith cups gurus on cups.org and this is the upshot of discussions so far

> I grabbed the cups-filters deb; frm the control file I see that debian
now uses the openprinting cups filters.  Their version of the filter
still has support for using pdftops(1) (although it blocks level3
output, which would be better for the KM printers, because it causes
problems on some HP printers), but you would need to recompile from
source to use it.

I'd suggest reporting this to debian as a bug (using reportbug(1)).
Your printer prefers the Postscript generated by poppler's or xpdf's
pdftops -level3 over the Postscript generated by Ghostscript's ps2writer.

Their switch to use the latter in cups-filters is a regression for you.


I have managed a workaround but you may not like it.

1. Install a virtualbox running oneiric and cups.
2. setup the printer on that (I had trouble with ipp but socket/hp jet direct worked fine).
3. Start regrowing the hair that has been pulled out and think about how to report the bug to debian/ubuntu.

If anyone has a better idea I am all ears. 

ps. I also tried to downgrade cups to 1.50 by using the oneiric binaries and libpoppler13.  This screwed up my apt-cache so badly I had to reinstall the system.  If anyone manages this without hosing their package management then I would love to hear about it.

regards

Mark

---

### Post by WHiZZi on 2012-05-04
I'll try something on monday when I'm at work again. Today I reinstalled one of the systems back to 11.10 else I will get some big issues on monday. My own workplace is 12.04 so I can test with that.

I'll just try out to compile the latest or somehow to install cups from 11.10. I'll let you know how or if this is a workaround.

---

### Post by mcblades on 2012-05-09
HI:

Any joy with your printer issues?

I have so far been unable to shoehorn the 1.50 cups release into my 12.04 system without seriously screwing up the machine.

any help much appreciated

Mark

---

### Post by WHiZZi on 2012-05-09
Same here :(

Text only seems to work, but as soon as something more graphical is printed, the whole printer crashes (and obviously, no paper coming out). 

I can try to make a new DEB-package from cups-filters with the current version and not using the openprinting-filters or at least give Postscript level 3 (?) output so the KM will just print. 

I really don't have a clue how to do that, but I guess I have to figure it out somehow.

---

### Post by midgardsormr on 2012-05-09
Hi everybody, ):P

I came here to read about this problem because it affected me too.

I just wanted to tell you that I solved this problem with a simple workaround:

When adding the printer (Konica Minolta C280) with CUPS Control Panel (type: localhost:631 in a browser), simply associate the printer with a **Generic PostScript Level 1 Printer Foomatic/Postscript1 (recommended)** and it should work like a charm. ;)



I write down here the complete procedure, to help anyone will encounter this problem. ;)

- First of all, make sure you have the IP address of the Printer you want to set up;

then **open a browser and typ**e in the URL bar: 

**localhost:631**

Now you will gain access at CUPS Printer Server of your Ubuntu system.

To add a new printer, click on 
**ADMINISTRATION tab**

**Add printer**

Scroll down the page and under "**Other network printers**" select 

**AppSocket/HP Jet Direct**

and press **Continue**


Now type the IP address of your printer, like this:

**socket://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx**

and click on **Continue**

Now just type the **name of the Printer** as you want to see it on your sistem (e.g. : Konica_C280)
and click on **Continue**

Now you have to choose the driver, under "**Make**" (I guess it's "make" in english, I see it in italian) search the list for **GENERIC**

and then click on **Continue**

And now in this other list search for **Generic PostScript Level 1 Printer Foomatic/Postscript1 (recommended)** , which is the one I successfully used.
Then click on **ADD PRINTER**.

Now that you have added the printer, click on the "**Interrogate printer for default options**" **button** on the upper left and you should now have a totally functional Konica Minolta C280 printer set up on your system.

I hope that help. Bye :) :guitar:

---

### Post by theunsheydenrych on 2012-05-10
HI, i had the same problem.

midgardsormr , you are the man!
It works!

Hope cups get it sorted out, though.

Cheers

---

### Post by mcblades on 2012-05-10
Midgardsormr Excellent job!!

While it certainly workst, the output isn't quite as good as using the km4750en ppd file and cups 1.50.  But it is a hell of a lot better than crashing the printer completely and ruining my morning.

Thanks a lot.:popcorn:

Here's hoping they sort out cups soon.

Thanks again

MArk

---

### Post by midgardsormr on 2012-05-11
Thank you guys! :) Yes, let's hope they fix this problem very soon... I know sometimes with certain types of works/pages this driver it's not fully functional... My hint is to try some other driver under the "Generic" category, maybe there is another type that works better ;)
I just pointed directly to the PostScript because I knew it would work because it's the basic driver for every printer. :P
But for my type of work I do around here, it serves me right enough, so... :)
Bye bye everybody! :guitar:

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2012-05-14
I'm having this problem with out KM C360 bizhub at the office.  Weird thing is, I printed to it last week (post-12.04 upgrade) with no problems.

Now I get this in the logs:
```


E [14/May/2012:10:16:12 -0500] [Job 134] The printer URI is incorrect or no longer exists.

```

Whenever I try to print.  The same URI works fine on debian stable servers around here.

I tried using the generic postscript, but it isn't working for me.

Does anyone know if a bug was filed on this?

---

### Post by midgardsormr on 2012-05-14
> **lykwydchykyn said:**
> I'm having this problem with out KM C360 bizhub at the office.  Weird thing is, I printed to it last week (post-12.04 upgrade) with no problems.

Now I get this in the logs:
```


E [14/May/2012:10:16:12 -0500] [Job 134] The printer URI is incorrect or no longer exists.

```

Whenever I try to print.  The same URI works fine on debian stable servers around here.

I tried using the generic postscript, but it isn't working for me.

Does anyone know if a bug was filed on this?
Mmmh... Sounds like an error on resolving the printer address. Stupid question, but.. Have you tried rebooting yet? :lolflag:

In any case, I don't know your current configuration, but I would turn off the printer (**question**: is it configured with a static IP? or prenotation via DHCP?), then remove and re-installing it after its reboot. I would do that. :D

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2012-05-14
> **midgardsormr said:**
> Mmmh... Sounds like an error on resolving the printer address. Stupid question, but.. Have you tried rebooting yet? :lolflag:

In any case, I don't know your current configuration, but I would turn off the printer (**question**: is it configured with a static IP? or prenotation via DHCP?), then remove and re-installing it after its reboot. I would do that. :D

Tried rebooting, tried resetting the printer (several times), tried removing and reinstalling.  It just doesn't see the printer for some bizarre reason.

---

### Post by midgardsormr on 2012-05-15
> **lykwydchykyn said:**
> Tried rebooting, tried resetting the printer (several times), tried removing and reinstalling.  It just doesn't see the printer for some bizarre reason.
In order to excluding other related issues, try to print via Live CD. :) If you succeed to print that way, then I guess some .conf on your system might have been corrupted and honestly I wouldn't know what to do in that case... :confused:

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2012-05-15
I'll give that a try sometime; for now I have a workaround.  I enabled printer sharing on one of the working debian boxes, and my machine automatically picked up the printer after a bit.  For some reason, it works fine printing through the older CUPS version.

---

### Post by midgardsormr on 2012-05-21
> **lykwydchykyn said:**
> I'll give that a try sometime; for now I have a workaround.  I enabled printer sharing on one of the working debian boxes, and my machine automatically picked up the printer after a bit.  For some reason, it works fine printing through the older CUPS version.

Hey! I bring you up some good news ):P

I arrived at office today, and searched for some updates as I usually do from time to time.
I gave the "apt-get update && apt-get upgrade" command via console, and I found some updates concerning our dear CUPS! :P

I installed them and I tried to use the official driver from the Konica Site for my C280 printer, that previously didn't work.

...And, surprise! It seems that they fixed the problem :) I deleted and reinstalled the printer now with his proper PPD driver, and it works like a charm. :) 

So, I suggest to search for some updates and then download the Konica driver. :)

Here a screenshot of which Driver I downloaded.

[[IMG]http://img220.imageshack.us/img220/9405/schermatadel20120521105.th.png[/IMG]](http://imageshack.us/photo/my-images/220/schermatadel20120521105.png/)


Hope it helps! Bye! ):P

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-05-21
Welcome to the forum, Miðgarðsormur. You are showing a good beginning. 

Moving the thread to the hardware forum.

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2012-05-21
What version is your cups now?  I ran updates and saw nothing that looked cups related.

---

### Post by midgardsormr on 2012-05-21
> **lykwydchykyn said:**
> What version is your cups now?  I ran updates and saw nothing that looked cups related.

To me it's still the 1.5.2 version, but now it works fine. 
Sorry I didn't take a screenshot of the updates I did. :(

---

### Post by mcblades on 2012-06-05
Ubuntu have updated their repos to CUPS 1.53 now.  I just tried intalling the printer again from unity printers (as hp/jet direct).  Printer is now working fine.  My bugs are gone and the printer works again.  Time to shut down my virtual box!

regards

Mark
 :KS

---

### Post by jslozier on 2012-07-31
midgardsormr,

Your instructions worked for a KM magicolor md2430dl.

I would tweak your instructions to add make sure the printer is on so it will automatically be detected.

Also, many magicolor ppds are listed under Minolta and Konica-Minolta, so check both. I knew mine were listed under Minolta from previous installs

Thanks for your excellent instructions!!::guitar:

---

