---
title: "Ati hd 6570"
date: 2014-07-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jacob38 on 2014-07-07
My video card went out on my computer (Ubuntu 12.x), I went and purchased a ATI 6570 and replaced the card on my computer. Now when I load the system, my computer no longer loads past the Ubuntu Logo. I can hit 'Enter' to enter a Command Line but then the basic commands (ifconfig, ifup eth0, etc) are not recognized commands. I have tried Ctrl+Alt+F1 to get to the terminal, but no results.

I need to get to the terminal to install the driver manually from my understanding and setup the network. Can someone advise me on how to solve this URGENT problem?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-07-07
What video card did you have before?

If it was an nvidia card using the nvidia-current driver you will need to remove that and then possibly install the AMD driver from Additional Drivers.
However, once the nvidia-current driver has gone (along with its /etc/X11/xorg.conf file) the open souirce AMD driver should allow you to boot fine.

---

### Post by jacob38 on 2014-07-07
Yes, I have seen this mentioned before about removing the ..xorg.conf file. If I remove that file, will the file be replaced automatically with the new GPU information or do I need to manually re-create that file?

Also, is there a command to install ATI 6570 GPU like there is for NVIDA (nivida-current)?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2014-07-07
> **jacob38 said:**
> Yes, I have seen this mentioned before about removing the ..xorg.conf file. If I remove that file, will the file be replaced automatically with the new GPU information or do I need to manually re-create that file?
You should not HAVE an xorg.conf file -- unless you created it yourself.  If there is one and you delete it, a new one most likely will NOT be creates as more recent Linux versions do not use this file by default anymore but work without it.

> Also, is there a command to install ATI 6570 GPU like there is for NVIDA (nivida-current)?
You don't need to "install" drivers for the ATI; the default Radeon drivers will be installed by default.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-07-07
You can try at the Grub boot menu loading Recovery mode and then selecting Resume. If that gets you to a desktop then Additional Drivers will let you activate a driver for that new video card. The Resume option loads the desktop with an open source video driver.

Also at the recovery menu we can select Network and that will make a network (internet) connection and put the file system into read/write mode. Then when back at the recovery menu we can select Root and then with the file system already in read/write mode we can update/upgrade and install applications.

Regards.

---

### Post by jacob38 on 2014-07-07
> **grahammechanical said:**
> You can try at the Grub boot menu loading Recovery mode and then selecting Resume. If that gets you to a desktop then Additional Drivers will let you activate a driver for that new video card. The Resume option loads the desktop with an open source video driver.

That is the problem, we are unable to get past the recovery menu screen.

---

### Post by jacob38 on 2014-07-07
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> You should not HAVE an xorg.conf file -- unless you created it yourself.  If there is one and you delete it, a new one most likely will NOT be creates as more recent Linux versions do not use this file by default anymore but work without it.


You don't need to "install" drivers for the ATI; the default Radeon drivers will be installed by default.

Thank you for clarifying :-)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-07-09
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> You should not HAVE an xorg.conf file -- unless you created it yourself.  If there is one and you delete it, a new one most likely will NOT be creates as more recent Linux versions do not use this file by default anymore but work without it.


You don't need to "install" drivers for the ATI; the default Radeon drivers will be installed by default.
I thought the proprietary drivers for both AMD/ATI and nvidia both produced an xorg.conf file when installed, but as I have not used anything except the open source drivers for about 6 years, I am not certain about that; perhaps I am wrong.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-07-09
With the fglrx driver (ATI proprietary), an xorg.conf will be created when you issue

```
 sudo amdconfig --initial
```

which is not supposed to be necessary any longer, but it seems I still have to have people do this all the time.

As stated above, by default no xorg.conf exists and the Radeon driver needs none.

If you are not using the fglrx driver, then the presence of an xorg.conf could cause problems.

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2014-07-11
Try re-creating the ~/.Xauthority folder.
get to TTY (CTRL + SHIFT + F2)
log in with your userid and pass at prompt.
run:
mv .Xauthority .Xauthority.backup

And re-start. just might do the trick.

---

