---
title: "Wrong DEFAULT Monitor.. Annoying Issue.. Multiple Display Setup."
date: 2010-09-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tcpkid_82 on 2010-09-25
I am using Ubuntu 10.04 64-bit as my default OS. I have updated the Nvidia Driver to 260.xx. Two monitors. One is a laptop lcd (secondary) and the other is a lcd connected via hdmi (primary).

The issue i am having is that when i right click the desktop and select "Clean up Icons" it moves all the icons on to the laptop lcd rather than the external one. Even while playing a flash video in full screen it plays on the laptop lcd. 

Note: The login screen and the gnome-panels are on the external lcd. 

I want the external lcd to be default. It is set to be default in nvidia x server settings, however that doesn't really make it default. 


Thanks in advance!



Here is my xorg.conf:

[HTML]# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.06  (buildd@louvi)  Tue Sep 21 09:47:13 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Seiko/Epson"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600M GT"
Option  "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1, DFP-0"
Option "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP-1, DFP-0"
Option "TwinViewOrientation" "DFP-0 LeftOf DFP-1"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1, DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1440x900_60 +0+180, DFP-1: 1920x1080_60 +1440+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/HTML]

---

