---
title: "10.10 touchpad drivers. Revert to old version?"
date: 2010-11-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-11-22
Just upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 on my notebook ( one week ago upgrade on my desktop was a success ) and firstly, some problems with new kernel and nvidia drivers, but that was soon fixed.

But apparently the new touchpad drivers in Ubuntu 10.10 are **crap**. No offence to the developers who probably worked on them for weeks, but, seriously. Don't break something that works well without any user intervention. (Remember pulse audio on Hardy?) 

My problems are as follows:
First noticeable: Damn acceleration ( partially fixed in settings )
Second: Reversed multi touch buttons... two finger click was popping up the right click menu and three finger click was acting as middle button ( fixed using synclient and boot up script )
Third: Response time for one finger click is noticeable and very annoying ( Fixed using some gui called gpointed-device-manager or something and enabling fast clicks )
Fourth: Doing double click on window border: Impossible... for desired effect (maximization...) I now have to execute a triple click which is rather tiring... (I can't fix this no matter which slider I pull in either settings application)
Fifth: Some single taps do not work, in file selection and in number other places... single tap will just be ignored ( And believe me I have tried every feasible combination of slider positions and of speeds of my taping ) 

So my question... How to revert the drivers to ones included in 10.04? Because, everything on 10.04 worked without the need to visit the "mouse" menu or doing any hacks. Tried downgrading synaptics xorg drivers but it breaks some xorg core package, so I have decided to not do any downgrades at that time. So much for that rant, been picking this for three hours and got very frustrated indeed...

---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-11-23
Bump

---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-11-23
bump and additional info...

Asus K50IN - Elantech touchpad

---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-11-24
bump... and apparently I can't do two finger clicks properly either... I am gonna keep bumping this until someone who knows how to get the old drivers back reads this :)

---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-11-25
And... bump

---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-11-27
Bump

---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-11-29
Bump

---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-12-05
Switched to Debian but left ubuntu on different partition, therefore, BUMP.

---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-12-11
And bump

---

### Post by alfielee on 2010-12-26
I run an eMachines E640 whatever that means but with Ubuntu 10.04 & 9.10 I had no problem with the trackpad but after the upgrade & suddenly after 2 weeks the trackpad no longer works. Please guys, I know you're working on it but this is fairly big. I luckily have a mouse but it's a pain to art around all the time.

---

### Post by pi/roman on 2010-12-26
I am still on 10.04 but think I will upgrade so I can start testing on it.

My first question for David would be what you get when entering 'synclient -l' in terminal?
If you get a list of options and settings then you can test them with synclient to be sure you are able to configure it the way you want then configure them through xorg.conf and not with a udev rule as i first thought.

Alfie, I agree the touchpad is a big deal.  I see the whole point of a laptop as not having to fool around with clunky peripherals like mice.  Just to clarify though I wasn't sure whether the touchpad failed immediateley after the update or 2 weeks after the update?  It may not lead to an answer but may help to point in the right direction.

---

### Post by pi/roman on 2010-12-26
I installed 10.10 and that got my head spinning.  It seems the touchpad is being configured through xorg.conf again although I thought they were not going to use that again. You will need to use xorg.conf and not the udev configuration that I mentioned earlier.

---

### Post by Cz-David on 2010-12-28
I updated about a month after Ubuntu release. And yes, synclient gives me options.

---

