---
title: "How do I enable direct rendering on an ATI Rage Mobility M3?"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by zvbxrpl on 2008-04-28
I've got an old Dell Latitude C600 onto which I've just installed Hardy.  The graphics card is reported as "ATI Technologies Inc Rage Mobility M3 AGP 2x (rev 02)".  The native resolution of the C600's screen is 1024x768.  Out of the box, the screen displays as 800x600, which I fixed by adding lines to xorg.conf as detailed here:

[http://www.shahidhussain.com/blog/?p=12](http://www.shahidhussain.com/blog/?p=12)

However, glxinfo reports that direct rendering is not enabled.  I tried the instructions posted here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-370219.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-370219.html) 

but it made no difference.

I understand that this card is used in a lot of laptops.  Does anyone know how to get it working?

Many thanks!

---

### Post by alphabeta23 on 2008-04-28
Hey, 
I configured my display/graphic card with "displayconfig-gtk" (as sudo).

In my xorg.conf I changed the driver "ati" with "r128" and default depth to 16. Now direct rendering works fine. 

But with my Dell C600 I have a suspend problem. The laptop goes to sleep but the display doesn't turn off. Do you have the same issue with yours?

Best regards,

---

### Post by zvbxrpl on 2008-04-28
@alphabeta23

Thanks for your suggestions.

> I configured my display/graphic card with "displayconfig-gtk" (as sudo).

I tried this, and after a reboot X would only load in safe graphics mode, so I had to revert to my old xorg.conf.

> In my xorg.conf I changed the driver "ati" with "r128" and default depth to 16. Now direct rendering works fine. 

The default depth in my previous xorg.conf was already at 16, but it didn't seem to help.  Running the config tool above added the Driver "r128" line, but this seemed to break things.

> But with my Dell C600 I have a suspend problem. The laptop goes to sleep but the display doesn't turn off. Do you have the same issue with yours?

Yes, I get this too - that's the next problem to solve...

Does anyone have any other ideas?

---

### Post by zvbxrpl on 2008-04-28
Ah - I've just realised that I needed to add

DefaultColorDepth 16

to the Monitor section.  What confused me is that the new version of X.org in Hardy seems to use a very cut-down version of xorg.conf, and this line (along with many others I'm used to seeing) is actually missing altogether.  I now get about 500 fps in glxgears as opposed to 120 fps before.

I'll see if I can find out anything about the backlight staying on on standby...

---

### Post by Evil Knievil on 2008-09-29
Hi Guys!

I have the same video card built in my laptop. I couldn't get the direct rendering going even with your modifications of xorg.conf.

Maybe I did something wrong. Is is possible to post your xorg.conf here?

THX, EvilK

---

### Post by dmatthys on 2008-12-20
I'm Not sure about distribution differences, but this worked for me on Xubuntu 8.10 with the same hardware. Unfortunately it's not capable of playing the latest and greatest of games from what I could read: however I was happy to finally get it to work at all I scanned posts and howto's all over the web for weeks. I'm still fairly new to all of this and have no intentions of reverting to windows especially now. I just found this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-370219.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-370219.html). The very last post is what tipped me over the edge the steps that i took before that was to manually configure xorg.conf which supposedly does not get read in Xubuntu 8.10. Anyway here are some commands to run through first.

This is exactly what I did

sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx*
sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xorg-video-ati xserver-xorg-video-radeon
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-ati
dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Then back up your xorg.conf located at /etc/X11/xorg.conf

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup

Then I edited the xorg.conf file located at /etc/X11/xorg.conf to look like this

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Module"
     Load        "i2c"
     Load        "bitmap"
     Load        "dbe"
     Load        "ddc"
     Load        "dri"
     Load        "extmod"
     Load        "freetype"
     Load        "glx"
     Load        "int10"
     Load        "type1"
     Load        "vbe"
EndSection

Section "Device"
     Identifier  "ATI Technologies Inc. Rage Mobility M3 AGP 2x"
     Driver      "ati"
     BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
     VideoRam    8192
     Option      "AgpMode"        "2"
     Option      "EnablePageFlip" "true"
     Option      "Accel"          "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
     Identifier  "Generic Monitor"
     Option      "DPMS"
     HorizSync   28-70
     VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
     Identifier  "Default Screen"
     Device      "ATI Technologies Inc. Rage Mobility M3 AGP 2x"
     Monitor     "Generic Monitor"
     DefaultDepth 16
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0066
EndSection

#
#
#Section "Device"
#	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
#EndSection
#
#Section "Monitor"
#	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
#EndSection
#
#Section "Screen"
#	Identifier	"Default Screen"
#	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
#	Device		"Configured Video Device"
#EndSection
#
#

Save the file and reboot

sudo reboot

If you just copied and pasted that xorg.conf file above you should have booted up in 1024x768 resolution and if you run glxinfo in terminal direct rendering should say yes 

my glx gears were at 420 in 5 seconds when i started this project two weeks ago and about 1 hours ago i finished with the instructions described (i just found them a little before that it didn't take me two weeks to follow them)

glxgears

3571 in 5 seconds 

I tested on a myspace app Dragon wars it ran very slow and that is no where near the games out there today but it worked. Hope someone finds this useful
:guitar:

---

### Post by navsnipe on 2008-12-23
> **dmatthys said:**
> I'm Not sure about distribution differences, but this worked for me on Xubuntu 8.10 with the same hardware. 
:guitar:

I used your xorg.conf on my old Winbook Z1 laptop with the same video device with both 8.04 and 8.10 and it worked to get it to 1024x768.  I have only been using Ubuntu for about two weeks and the screen resolution was my only issue.

Thanks

---

### Post by dmatthys on 2008-12-28
glad it could help someone you can find online modeline generators to generate modelines for higher resolutions if you need them then you just add them to the list that is there

---

### Post by Neon Kitten on 2009-03-12
> **dmatthys said:**
> 
If you just copied and pasted that xorg.conf file above you should have booted up in 1024x768 resolution and if you run glxinfo in terminal direct rendering should say yes 


Thank you so much for figuring this one out - I've been tearing my hair out trying to get Kubuntu to boot at 1024x768 on my old C600, and this did the trick!

By the way, if I only need 2D, do I have to worry about direct rendering? And if not, is there a way of doing 24 bit display depth instead? I did try setting the DisplayDepth line in the xorg.conf above to 24, but the result was a white screen and then a fully functional but completely invisible KDE desktop :-D

---

