---
title: "12.04 ubuntu doesn't detect HDMI connected TV"
date: 2014-09-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Stenen on 2014-09-16
I have a desktop set up with 2 (dvi) monitors and now an addition of a TV through hdmi.
im using the dvi ports from my graphics card, and the hdmi from the motherboard because theres only a small hdmi plug in the graphics card (and i bought the wrong cable...)

i tried xrandr in the terminal and it only showed my two monitors connected, all other connections were disabled.

i've tried the detect button in both system settings -> hardware -> displays and in the NVIDEA x server settings, but nothing happens.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-09-16
In my experience, using an add-on graphics card disables the motherboard video.

---

### Post by Stenen on 2014-09-16
yeah that was the problem, bought some extra cables but now the sound wont come through

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-09-16
Try installing **pavucontrol** and see if it lets you select among the various possible audio outputs.

Your distro entry reads 9.10.  You just forgot to update that, right?  9.10 hasn't been supported [for a long time]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases").

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-09-16
I have a question. I know that HDMI is an audio/visual interface (to quote Wikipedia) but should we expect to get audio out of a motherboard's integrated graphic adapter? Should we expect an Nvidia graphic adapter to give an audio signal?

I have a digital TV connected by HDMI to an Nvidia adapter. To get audio coming from the computer into the TV I would have to connect the motherboard line out port to the TV audio in port. This was what I had to do with my previous HDTV/Monitor when I used DVI to connect to the computer.

Regards.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-09-16
I have two laptops connected to televisions over HDMI.  One has an integrated NVIDIA ION adapter (equivalent to a 9500GT); the other has an AMD 6770M.  With the proprietary drivers for each, I get video and audio over the HDMI cable.  I don't know how it works with an add-on video card, but I believe you can send the audio signal through the HDMI connector with the correct driver.  As I said earlier, mixer applications like pavucontrol or veromix provide a pretty simple interface to choose among audio channels.  I use Kubuntu with plasma-widget-veromix for this, and it works great.

DVI has no audio channels so you need to use a separate audio connection with that type of adapter.

---

