---
title: "8.10 Battery Charging problem"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ameen15 on 2008-12-29
I am very new to linux and still kind of leaning my way around the ubuntu OS.  I just installed 8.10 on my Dell Inspiron 9300 and have run in to few problems.  First of all, my battery does not charge any more.  Occasionally when i boot up i will get a message that the AC adapter cannot be recognized.  
Once everything is up an running, the battery will not charge.  The percentage stays the same, yet i still get an estimated time till charge.  Even when i turn the laptop off an plug it in, it will not charge.  

Is this something to do with Ubuntu or just a coincidence?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Rohan Kapoor on 2008-12-29
Nothing to do with ubuntu. Sounds like your power adaptor went capoot.

---

### Post by ameen15 on 2008-12-29
is there anyway that i could check to make sure that it is the problem?  I have gotten the battery to charge once, ran it completely dead pulled it out an put it back in while on AC power and it charged.

One other thing that perplexes me is that when on AC power if i remove the battery the it still indicates that the battery is there and at the same charge level.  This is what leads me to believe that Ubuntu has something to do with it ( that and it started happening literally right after i installed it)

I tried reinstalling the BIOS from Dell's website but when i do i get an unexpected error when running Flash application.  I have installed Flash and i believe it is working correctly.

---

### Post by Rohan Kapoor on 2008-12-29
> **ameen15 said:**
> is there anyway that i could check to make sure that it is the problem?  I have gotten the battery to charge once, ran it completely dead pulled it out an put it back in while on AC power and it charged.

You can try another power cord or battery. From what I can tell either your battery or power cord/adaptor or both are broken.

> **ameen15 said:**
> One other thing that perplexes me is that when on AC power if i remove the battery the it still indicates that the battery is there and at the same charge level.  This is what leads me to believe that Ubuntu has something to do with it ( that and it started happening literally right after i installed it)

Ubuntu can't have anything to do with it because battery charging is done by the hardware not software. There is a small EEPROM chip in the battery which regulates it.

I have an HP Compaq V2000 with a defective battery running Ubuntu. It's battery always shows 0% but I can normally get it to give me about an hour.

> **ameen15 said:**
> I tried reinstalling the BIOS from Dell's website but when i do i get an unexpected error when running Flash application.  I have installed Flash and i believe it is working correctly.

Flashing your BIOS will not affect your battery at all. Flashing uses a windows application in Ubuntu is highly risky and you will *most likely* fry your system. Once again **DO NOT FLASH USING A WINDOWS FLASHER IN UBUNTU!** As I said the charging is controlled by an EEPROM chip within the battery itself. BIOS has nothing to do with it.

---

