---
title: "Inspiron 8000 blank screen at startup - Lucid 10.04"
date: 2010-07-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by candtalan on 2010-07-15
My Dell Inspiron 8000 laptop (370MB RAM) is an old machine from 2001 however it has a large and bright display and feels like quality kit. I have been running Ubuntu 8.04 LTS on it until now, and have just decided to go to 10.04 LTS, however, either with a desktop live cd or an install, the display blanks at an early stage. No virtual terminal was available, and no key combos I could find did anything.

With previous Ubuntu versions I would have used the live cd F4 option which then included Safe graphics, but this does not seem to be available in 10.04.

I randomly tried F6 nomodeset option and the live cd ran and happily gave a display albeit 3/4 size. :-)

I used this live session desktop icon to install, slightly hoping the running parameters such as nomodeset would get carried into the installation, but they didn't.

So my 10.04 installation was not usable at this stage, having no display available.

I found an excellent comment by Christer Edwards which gave most of the answers for which I am deeply grateful.

Ubuntu 10.04 “Lucid” Blank Screen at Startup : Workaround
[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)

it covered hardware:
Older Intel video card
nVidia
Generic
hardware related blank screen issues, and the nvidia comment was to use nomodeset - this was my issue I knew now.

The solution required to edit a grub default file, to include nomodeset, and then to run update-grub.

I booted into 10.04, and at the grub choices menu, I pressed e which gave me ability to edit the parameters (my first time for this  :-)  )
and following the text 'quiet splash' I added a space and typed nomodeset

I then booted up using ctrl x as offered.

I had a usable display now!

I accepted to use low graphics mode for one session (the 'nvidia' could not be found) which gave me a usable 1024x768. The 3/4 size display I saw earlier could be toggled to full screen by using keys
Fn and F7. I later found that once set it remained as full screen.

I proceeded with the required edit detailed in the above link. For my case, in this machine, 
/etc/default/grub
and edited
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
to read
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodeset"

For reference I used
Applications>Accessories>Terminal
and the commands
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub

I completed the edit and saved the file. If you don't like living quite so dangerously, you could first save the original file for future reference.

As Christer Edwards pointed out, it was now necessary to run update-grub in order to establish this edit.

again, using the terminal
sudo update-grub

I am delighted to say that after a reboot, the display was a usable one. However, the apparent lack of 'nvidia' always produced a notice of low graphics mode.

I installed the proprietary driver nvidia 96 by using
System>Administration>Hardware drivers
I needed to be connected to the internet for this. I then needed to reboot. The low graphics notice no longer appeared. :-)

On this machine I did not want fancy 3d graphics so I turned these off using
System>Preferences>Appearance [visual effects] none
this speeded up responses noticeably.

The display is offered at a resolution of 1024x768, which is ok, but it is capable of better.

System>Preferences>Monitors
produced a notice:
'It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool.  Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?'
I clicked 'yes'
and used the nvidia tool to set the 
'x server display configuration'
to its capable maximum of  1400x1050

I noted the tool recognised the model as 
NVIDIA_SXGA (DFP-0 on GPU-0)

So at this stage 10.04 LTS was running beautifully on this venerable machine, and likely to keep it out of landfill for years yet!!

The blank screen problem for me is solved, however I will refrain a while before marking the thread because one small issue remains about the x  server configuration.
The vendors tool offers to save the new configuration to its legacy location
/etc/X11/xorg.conf
which is unsuitable for 10.04 and I would appreciate comments about how to fix this.

for reference the file offered is:

==============
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "NVIDIA_SXGA"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 100.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce2 Go"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1400x1050 +0+0; 1360x768 +0+0; 1280x1024 +0+0; 1280x960 +0+0; 1152x864 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

==============

---

