---
title: "11.04 Wireless is disabled by hardware switch"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by asaj on 2011-04-30
After upgrading to 11.04, I have found that I can not select "Enable Wireless" because "wireless is disabled by hardware switch".  There is a hardware switch for the wireless but playing with that seems to do nothing.  

lspci says I have an Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter

rfkill list says "sony-wifi: Wireless LAN" is soft blocked, as is "acer wireless: Wireless LAN", and "phy0: Wireless LAN" is both soft and hard blocked.

running sudo rfkill ublock all removes all blocked but the soft block on "acer wireless: Wireless LAN", however I still can't "Enable Wireless"

Switching the wireless switch to off turns on the hard blocked for everything. 

Could you guys help me?

Thanks!

---

### Post by cncarrollton on 2011-05-01
I had the same problem, try this:
> sudo rmmod acer_wmiFound the fix here:
[http://fossplanet.com/f10/%5Bbug-774036%5D-%5Bnew%5D-module-acer-wmi-should-blacklisted-lenovoideapad-s-12-a-146581/]("http://fossplanet.com/f10/%5Bbug-774036%5D-%5Bnew%5D-module-acer-wmi-should-blacklisted-lenovoideapad-s-12-a-146581/")

I don't really understand why my wireless card is " Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN [Shiloh] " but listed as "acer-wireless". Anyway, glad wifi is working now.

---

### Post by possumator on 2011-05-01
I have RHEL 6 (actually Scientific Linux 6) installed on my Lenovo S12 and tried the Ubuntu 11.04 liveCD. While using it, I tried installing the STA driver for my wireless card (which required a reboot- pretty useless for someone using a LiveCD). 

Strangely, now my wireless no longer works in the RHEL 6 installation and /var/log/messages says the hardware is disabled. The Wireless switch is enabled and RHEL 6 does not recognize the hotkey combination (Fn + F5) for turning wireless on or off...so pretty mystified.

Then I booted up a Mandriva LiveCD (which I knew would support my wireless card) and confirmed my wireless hardware does in fact work.

Have not checked my RHEL6 install again...perhaps it now works...not sure yet, writing this post from Mandriva LiveCD.

---

### Post by TheCommissar on 2011-05-02
I am having exactly this problem, and I had it on the beta too. It happened when my computer froze and I restarted it. The wireless menu says, as per the OP, it is disabled by the hardware switch.

Running 11.04 on a Dell Inspiron 1545, with a B43 wireless card (I think).

In addition, I found a fix that said I should remove the Broadcom STA driver software and install the B43 firmware instead, but for some reason I get this error when I try and uninstall it: 

```
SystemError: installArchives() failed
```

Getting really hacked off with the myriad Natty bugs, and if there aren't any good answers kicking about I'll go back to my good old 10.10 LiveCD. 

Thanks in advance for your help and support, as always.

---

### Post by TrevorDuke on 2011-05-02
same issue but on lenovo s12

---

### Post by TrevorDuke on 2011-05-02
> **cncarrollton said:**
> I had the same problem, try this:
Found the fix here:
[http://fossplanet.com/f10/%5Bbug-774036%5D-%5Bnew%5D-module-acer-wmi-should-blacklisted-lenovoideapad-s-12-a-146581/]("http://fossplanet.com/f10/%5Bbug-774036%5D-%5Bnew%5D-module-acer-wmi-should-blacklisted-lenovoideapad-s-12-a-146581/")

I don't really understand why my wireless card is " Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN [Shiloh] " but listed as "acer-wireless". Anyway, glad wifi is working now.

ya, fix does not work for me still have softblock

---

### Post by spedoinkle on 2011-05-03
ok so it's an issue with the acer_wmi module not being blacklisted? eh either way it worked.

> sudo rmmod acer_wmi 

now how do i automate this? i tried putting it in the startup apps. no luck, needs super user. made a shell script. works, but come on there has to be an automated way.

---

### Post by TheCommissar on 2011-05-03
Tried entering 

```
sudo rmmod acer_wmi
```

and got this:

```
ERROR: Module acer_wmi does not exist in /proc/modules
```


Oh, and although restarting last night had no effect on the wireless drop-down menu saying it was disabled by the hardware switch, when I switched the computer on this morning wireless was working fine, although I suspect that it will not be were I to press the little wireless hardware switch (it's on the keyboard).

---

### Post by Halulz on 2011-05-04
> **TheCommissar said:**
> Tried entering 

```
sudo rmmod acer_wmi
```and got this:

```
ERROR: Module acer_wmi does not exist in /proc/modules
```
Oh, and although restarting last night had no effect on the wireless drop-down menu saying it was disabled by the hardware switch, when I switched the computer on this morning wireless was working fine, although I suspect that it will not be were I to press the little wireless hardware switch (it's on the keyboard).

I've had no luck fixing this issue. I need some assistance with the same output of the "rmmod acer_wmi" command.  When I input the command, the output is always the same. I even tried from a fresh install. 
The output is below for a couple of commands:

rfkill list
1: hci0: Bluetooth
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no

rmmod acer_wmi
**ERROR: Module acer_wmi does not exist in /proc/modules**

I was using Ubuntu Natty and in the hope that I could fix this I had a fresh reinstall of Lucid 10.04 as the wireless was working previously on 10.04. 

***Note: I ran the update manager on both installations to no avail. both of them installed the same drivers.***

Please help! :<

---

### Post by cong06 on 2011-05-05
I'm having problems with my thinkpad T410. Same issues, none of the suggestions work.

lspci:
03:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8191SEvB Wireless LAN Controller (rev 10)

rkill list:
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: yes
9: hci0: Bluetooth
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: no

Edit:
As found from [the bug on launchpad.net](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-nettool/+question/155210), if you have the switch on when the computer is turned on, wireless works. (in my case anyway)

This is the only way I could fix it.

---

### Post by RBLevin on 2011-05-11
> **TrevorDuke said:**
> same issue but on lenovo s12

Same here. Lenovo S12. Also, the proprietary Broadcom STA driver is installed but non-functional. I added two D-Link USB wireless adapters, both of which are natively supported on Ubuntu, and still cannot get wireless recognized as being "on."

The PC does have a hardware on-off switch, but flipping it has no effect.

I also seem to recall having to troubleshoot this problem with the 10.04->10.10 upgrade.

:confused:

---

### Post by RBLevin on 2011-05-11
> **TheCommissar said:**
> In addition, I found a fix that said I should remove the Broadcom STA driver software and install the B43 firmware instead, but for some reason I get this error when I try and uninstall it:

I don't think it's a driver problem. I've connected USB WiFi devices that are natively supported in Ubuntu, and doing so has no effect. The hardware is being detected. There's some kind of software block on the wireless.

---

### Post by tony-is-me on 2011-05-13
I've had some issue's to with the acer 5735 wireless card, however I use a usb mobile broadband and after I set up the mobile b/band connection I could browse the net etc. My built in card says it's connected but when I open the browser f/fox tells me it's not connected. I've seen lots of post's about the w/less card issue's so I'm confident Ubuntu will get it sorted out, anyway I hope you all get it up an running ;-)

---

### Post by martin_ro on 2011-06-04
Hi, same for me, Lubuntu 11.04 on a Fujitsu-Siemens Lifebook E4010.
:confused:

---

### Post by cong06 on 2011-06-05
My "permanent solution" has been to leave the hardware switch enabled all the time, and disable it via the software network manager.

---

### Post by Mister Owen on 2011-06-19
Hi there, first post. 

Thanks, the solution to remove the acer_wmi module did the trick for me. I've blacklisted the module now and wireless works like a charm again on my Lenovo S12. 

I had encountered various Broadcom STA driver related issues after upgrading from 10.04 to 11.04 (see many other threads), "disabled by hardware switch" being the last one of them.

Before removing acer_wmi, I had uninstalled any wireless driver I'd tried in order to get wireless running, and did a fresh install of the STA driver.

Cheers
Owen

---

### Post by cong06 on 2011-09-06
> **cong06 said:**
> My "permanent solution" has been to leave the hardware switch enabled all the time, and disable it via the software network manager.

My more convenient solution is now to put my computer into standby (while I'm experiencing the issue), confirm that the hardware switch is online, and then recover from standby again.

This is only confirmed to work when I boot with the card active. Maybe it doesn't work if it's off on machine startup?

---

### Post by arnezthe on 2011-09-27
> **cong06 said:**
> I'm having problems with my thinkpad T410. Same issues, none of the suggestions work.

lspci:
03:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8191SEvB Wireless LAN Controller (rev 10)

rkill list:
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: yes
9: hci0: Bluetooth
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: no

Edit:
As found from [the bug on launchpad.net](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-nettool/+question/155210), if you have the switch on when the computer is turned on, wireless works. (in my case anyway)

This is the only way I could fix it.

According to your details after rkill -list I suggest to type this: *sudo rfkill unblock 0*

---

### Post by kblue on 2011-09-28
Hi, I had the same problem with my wireless connection; this is my rfkill list o/p: 

acer-wireless: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: yes
	Hard blocked: no

 rmmod acer_wmi set it right for me. :) I'm using a lenovo z570. Thanks cncarollton, for the solution.

---

### Post by silvester696 on 2011-09-28
Have you ever experienced the situation that you turned on your  laptop in the cafe which provides the free wireless internet use, [Duplicate File Finder]("http://www.ashisoft.com") and  just find out that your laptop can not connect? By following a few steps  here,you are able to get your laptop connected without needing to call  somebody else coming to rescue you!

---

### Post by souIburner on 2011-10-13
Hi guys, I spend a lot of time trying to find solution for that issue and finally [**[COLOR="Navy"][B]I found it**[/COLOR][/B]]("http://www.zyxware.com/articles/1694/wireless-disabled-by-hardware-switch-issue-on-the-thinkpad-z570-in-ubuntu-solution")! ;)
Have fun!

---

### Post by karo on 2011-10-26
> **souIburner said:**
> Hi guys, I spend a lot of time trying to find solution for that issue and finally [**[COLOR="Navy"][B]I found it**[/COLOR][/B]]("http://www.zyxware.com/articles/1694/wireless-disabled-by-hardware-switch-issue-on-the-thinkpad-z570-in-ubuntu-solution")! ;)
Have fun!
I've been experiencing the same problems on my hp compaq with Ubuntu 11.10.
I already started to think my wireless was down permanently but this solution worked - of course with putting ```
hp_wmi
``` in appropriate places :)

Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by jahnab on 2011-10-30
I had the same problem, tried out the solutions posted here:

[http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/05/how-to-solve-no-wireless-networks-in-ubuntu-11-04/](http://www.computerandyou.net/2011/05/how-to-solve-no-wireless-networks-in-ubuntu-11-04/)

now the wireless card (ASUS EZ N10) works perfectly, but depends on the BLUETOOTH hardware switch to be in the ON position ! as soon as i switch OFF Bluetooth (flick the physical switch), wireless stops working too.

anyways, flicking the bluetooth switch works for me (lenovo Ideapad laptop) :)

---

### Post by cong06 on 2011-10-30
Does anyone know if 11.10 seems to fix these issues?

---

### Post by mmesojedec on 2011-11-09
Hi All,

I had problem on HP Compaq nc6320 in ubuntu 11.10 version

I solved this to add:  "blacklist hp-wmi"   into     /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf


Now my wireless problem disappear.

---

### Post by poojasaraff on 2011-11-24
Wireless not working on Dell Inspiron 15R Ubuntu 10.04

The output of few commands are as follows:  

lscpi : 09:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Device 008a (rev 34)

rfkill list :
0: hci0: Bluetooth
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no

my ubuntu is not detecting the wireless card present in my system

Thanks, 
Pooja

---

