---
title: "12.4 install driver for AMD HD Radeon 6800"
date: 2012-10-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by journeyhome on 2012-10-10
Just "permanently" switch to Ubuntu from Windows, largely due to python I think?

Everything works fine, but the issues with hardware drivers really really bother me:confused: and my [COLOR=Red]current focus is on the graphic driver[/COLOR]. So would anyone please suggest a way to do this? [COLOR=Red]In the following, I described my situation in detail if you do not have the patience to read them all please go directly to 2.3.[/COLOR] Gratitude!

**Section 1**
My desktop has dual monitors and this is very important to me. If I do not install any driver, in which case the "[COLOR=Red]System Settings[/COLOR]" "[COLOR=Red]Details[/COLOR]" says "[COLOR=Red]Graphics: Unknown[/COLOR]", but the dual monitors work just fine. I know that I need to install the proper driver as I did in Windows to achieve optimal performance. And actually, the "[COLOR=Red]no driver case[/COLOR]" works but I experienced [COLOR=Red][COLOR=Black]several times of[/COLOR] "system crash"[/COLOR], e.g., *the mouse pointer just froze at somewhere and the screens black out and on again and again*. I think this might be the reason of proper graphic driver installed.

**Section 2**
I tried the following ways but none turns out to be a success:( Even if I installed, the "[COLOR=Red]System Settings" "Details" "Graphics[/COLOR]" says "[COLOR=Red]VESA[/COLOR]" and I am not sure how to change it to catalyst (I suppose).

**2.1**
The first step I did was to open the "[COLOR=Red]System Settings[/COLOR]" and "[COLOR=Red]Additional Drivers[/COLOR]", in which there are two options:[COLOR=Red] ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver[/COLOR], and [COLOR=Red]ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver(post release updates)[/COLOR]. I chose the first one, activated that, and reboot. But the problem is that the two monitors can only mirror each other. When I uncheck the "Mirror displays" box and apply, the error message "[COLOR=Red]the width required is 3840*1080 but the maximum width is 1920[/COLOR]". However, when I type "fglrxinfo" in the terminal, the information suggests that I installed the driver properly! So, I undo what I have done and try the next way.

**2.2**
I googled and followed the instructions in the following two websites
(1) 
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/124292/what-is-the-correct-way-to-install-ati-catalyst-video-drivers](http://askubuntu.com/questions/124292/what-is-the-correct-way-to-install-ati-catalyst-video-drivers)
(2)
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Precise_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Precise_Installation_Guide)

The result is that [COLOR=Red]"fglrxinfo" all shows I installed the driver but I checked the xorg.conf I did not see any changes in it.[/COLOR] I suppose, *it should have two additional sections for monitors and two additional sections for screens. Esp. in the screen section, it should specify the resolution, refresh rate, etc. *

**2.3**
I also check the amd website, *[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English)*
there is a file called "[COLOR=Red]Catalyst_11.10_Linux_Installer.pdf[/COLOR]", which I suppose should be the "[COLOR=Red]official reference[/COLOR]"? However, several problems puzzle me and I do not want to proceed until make them clear.

First, page 2, "[COLOR=Red]Minimum System Requirements[/COLOR]", I checked my "[COLOR=Red]glibc version[/COLOR]" which is [COLOR=Red]2.15 [/COLOR]and that does not meet the requirement of 2.2 or 2.3. I did not find a way to update this and even the view regarding updating per se is not consistent in that someone argue that it is not a good idea doing so. In addition, I have no idea regarding the "POSIX" item. Well, not to say the "[COLOR=Red]System Recommendations[/COLOR]" part.

If you have reached here, I really appreciate your patience and kindness!

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2012-10-10
> **journeyhome said:**
> **Section 2**
I tried the following ways but none turns out to be a success:( Even if I installed, the "[COLOR=Red]System Settings" "Details" "Graphics[/COLOR]" says "[COLOR=Red]VESA[/COLOR]" and I am not sure how to change it to catalyst (I suppose).

Not necessary to show anything else there, VESA will be fine !

> **journeyhome said:**
> **2.1**
The first step I did was to open the "[COLOR=Red]System Settings[/COLOR]" and "[COLOR=Red]Additional Drivers[/COLOR]", in which there are two options:[COLOR=Red] ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver[/COLOR], and [COLOR=Red]ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver(post release updates)[/COLOR]. I chose the first one, activated that, and reboot. But the problem is that the two monitors can only mirror each other. When I uncheck the "Mirror displays" box and apply, the error message "[COLOR=Red]the width required is 3840*1080 but the maximum width is 1920[/COLOR]". However, when I type "fglrxinfo" in the terminal, the information suggests that I installed the driver properly! So, I undo what I have done and try the next way.

If you want extended desktop, connect the second monitor and then enable Xinerama with AMD Config tool (you will find it in the programs), need the Admin version of it (root access). After enabling Xinerama, you need to reboot.

FGLRX must be enabled for all the above to work.

---

### Post by journeyhome on 2012-10-10
> **typhoon_tip said:**
> Not necessary to show anything else there, VESA will be fine !

This is really good to hear!


If you want extended desktop, connect the second monitor and then enable Xinerama with AMD Config tool (you will find it in the programs), need the Admin version of it (root access). After enabling Xinerama, you need to reboot.

FGLRX must be enabled for all the above to work.

I will try this and thank you. What I am looking for is for each screen to display different things instead of two screens display one desktop, because in Windows both these cases can be done.

I sincerely appreciate your advice!

---

