---
title: "How to change refresh rate"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by geovino on 2008-04-27
I have installed hardy with nvidia glx new drivers and everything looks and works fine. But when I go to play Extreme Tux Racer I get a window that say my refresh rate (50) is not correct and it should be 60 instead. When I click on the refresh it's only 50 and 51 hz. I have a resolution of 1280x1024. How can I change it to 60hz?

---

### Post by vishzilla on 2008-04-27
Go to System->Prefs->Screen Resolution

---

### Post by NitroZZeLLo on 2008-04-27
you are wrong, have the same problem and of course the first thig I did was to go to Screen Resolution, but does not offer that choice.

---

### Post by geovino on 2008-04-27
> **vishzilla said:**
> Go to System->Prefs->Screen Resolution

That's where I was. Where else can I change the refresh rate?

---

### Post by uid on 2008-04-27
i had the same problem after my ubuntu install.

setting the option:
Option "DynamicTwinView" "False"

in my xorg.conf in the device section solved it.

---

### Post by geovino on 2008-04-27
here's my xorg.conf:

 xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

I don't see a Option "DynamicTwinView" option.

Also how do I login as root to edit this file?
What is the command?

---

### Post by uid on 2008-04-27
> **geovino said:**
> 
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

I don't see a Option "DynamicTwinView" option.

Also how do I login as root to edit this file?
What is the command?
the command is sudo.
you can do it in a console with:
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

put the twinview in that screen section
	Option         "DynamicTwinView" "false"

---

### Post by geovino on 2008-04-27
Thanks. I added the option and now it's 60hz and 70hz. 

But when I went back to Extreme Tux Racer it still had the box saying to set to 1280x1024 - 60hz, which it is now. I did a reboot. Do I have to shut the PC off then reboot?

---

### Post by Arasfang on 2008-05-17
To change refresh-rates you can also do
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings

and then run it with
sudo nvidia-settings

and in there you can change alot more stuff.

---

### Post by MerrickB on 2008-05-17
> **uid said:**
> i had the same problem after my ubuntu install.

setting the option:
Option "DynamicTwinView" "False"

in my xorg.conf in the device section solved it.

You might want to warn people that if they do what you suggest here and have installed the ***nVidia X Server Settings*** (through *sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings* in a terminal window), they're going to find their *X Server Display Configuration* Disabled, and will have not one, but two different places to go to control their options with their nVidia Cards.  

While some people might not mind, I happen to like having configurations one-stop shop.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2008-05-17
I use the gtf command to setup modelines that I install in my monitor section of xorg.conf..  This way I can change resolution and refresh rate via nvidia-settings.

---

