---
title: "Ati Drivers"
date: 2010-02-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Flaffen on 2010-02-21
I need help installing the drivers to my grapics card. The graphics card is:
RV280 [Radeon 9200 PRO]. I have tried the hardware drivers and envyNG, the hardware drivers doesent show any drivers at all so that is useless, and EnvyNG shows a ati driver but that is not recommended or compatible it says.
Does anyone have any idea what I should do? I have tried some tutorials but they dont seem to work for me (prolly cuz I'm a noob with ubuntu).
I'm stuck and I REALLY need some help.
Anyone?

---

### Post by jocko on 2010-02-21
You already have the proper driver (the open source driver named radeon) installed and used by default. The proprietary driver (fglrx/catalyst) does not support your card.

---

### Post by Flaffen on 2010-02-21
Well that one doesent work it seems. I the wallpaper even vanished when I used that. Whats it called? So I can try installing it again.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-02-21
You are unlucky in that your card has lost just about all support from ati, and to some extent from the open source driver that it is using at the moment.  However there are ways around that which make the performance better.

I have the same card in my desktop, but with a monitor of resolution 1280x1024, I can not see a desktop or icons if I use compiz and a colour depth of 24 bit colour.  The gnome panel shows but no desktop, and some applications appear OK until they are maximised, then they just show black again.  With no compiz desktop effects all is OK, but I like compiz some times and it is a great selling point when showing windows users what linux can do.

The current situation is that you can not have everything show if you have a resolution above 1024x768, use compiz and also use 24 bit colour.  Remove one of those and you can have everything show, so I personally use my machine at 16 bit colour.

I have manually edited the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to get it.  There is no such file by default in 9.10, so you may need to make one with ```
gksudo  gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```An empty file will appear and you can add in your version of my xorg.conf to try, but change the refresh rates to your own monitor's, and the resolution to what you want to use.
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "ati"
EndSection 

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
            HorizSync    30-80
            VertRefresh    50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    16
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```Save that empty file with the new contents and logout and then in again to restart x.  If you got the figures for your monitor correct, you should now see a desktop and icons again.
Good luck and I hope this helps you.

---

### Post by Flaffen on 2010-02-21
thanx for the info. but what driver should i reinstall on my comp?
i've been trying to install various and now i think i might have messed it up, how do i go back to the original one?

---

### Post by Flaffen on 2010-02-21
ok, so I just reinstalled Ubuntu and reduced the res and it seems to be working properly :D
thanx for the info, you save me a LOT of time :)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-02-21
Have you tried the xorg.conf way I showed you?  If you want to keep a decent resolution it is certainly worth trying!

Or simply run without compiz.
System- Preferences- Appearance- Visual Effects tab set to "none"

---

