---
title: "10.04 Netbook Remix based on Gnome?"
date: 2010-04-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ebro173 on 2010-04-14
I have been holding off on installing UNR on my new netbook.  I've been using the 9.10 UNR from a usb flash drive.  I just tried the 10.04 beta2 version which is based on KDE/Kubuntu by overwriting the 9.10 install on the usb flash drive.

I'm sure it is great.  I haven't given it much of a chance.  But I was holding out hope that the 10.04 UNR would be similar to the 9.10 version which I think is based on Gnome.  I like Gnome and I like the interface of the 9.10 UNR.

Is there going to be a 10.04 netbook remix version that is based on Gnome?

I tried searching the forums and the internet and could not find the answer to this.

I guess my new netbook (Acer Aspire 1410, Intel Celeron 743 1.3Ghz, 1MB L2 Cache, Intel GA 4500MHD up to 796MB DVMT) can handle a regular 10.04 Ubuntu install?

---

### Post by conradin on 2010-04-14
Yep, Gnome and KDE will be available at some point. You might have to wait until the LTS edition comes out though.

Also you might want to keep in mind the system requirements for lucid. Karmic has the recommended specs for your system. If we assume Specs increase with each new release, then we could guess that your computer would Run some place around or below the recommended system specs.

---

### Post by ebro173 on 2010-04-16
I just realized that the Gnome based version is available already from the lucid beta 2 testing page.  I didn't think to look under the Ubuntu Desktop and Server Releases link.  Duh.  The Kubuntu linkdescription specifies that it also has the netbook remix version (kde flavor of course) so I just jumped on that and looked no further.

---

