---
title: "Laptop funky fan sound when I move!"
date: 2009-06-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by imagxz on 2009-06-27
Ok so here's the deal, my HP dv6835nr laptop has been doing this for the past 2-3 weeks and its getting worse and worse. 

Everytime I move the laptop slightly(it sits on a wide hard book on my lap usually), it makes a loud grinding sound, apparently coming from the back of my laptop in the fan area. It just happened right now, and the only way to make it go away is to reboot...

Anyone have an idea what is going on?

---

### Post by Newfoundlander on 2009-06-27
Are you sure it is the fan and not the hard drive?  An accelerometer detects motion and stabilises the hard drive in event of a fall.

Maybe you could use your mic to record the sound and upload it to see if anyone recognises the noise.

---

### Post by imagxz on 2009-06-27
I would but for some reason my mic was never setup...
I tried researching it before(all the levels are put up and nothing is mute in the volume control), but it still wont record through the sound recorder.

I think its the fan because: 1) The sound is coming directly from the top left of my laptop, exactly where the fan is and not the bottom left where the HD is.

Also...I just lifted it up to see where my HD is to tell you and when i tilt the laptop front or back, it vibrates louder.

Hope someone will pass this by but in the meantime, i'll see if i can get my mic to work so I can record the sound.

---

### Post by ceciliaFX on 2009-06-27
is the fan dirty??

sometimes my fan makes a bit of noise. I clean it (with some micro cloth) and it stops making noise

---

### Post by imagxz on 2009-06-27
It **was** very dirty, I got the laptop a year ago and had'nt cleaned it since a few days ago. 

I cleaned the fan blades with q-tips and air thinking that would fix it but to no luck.

:(
Surely someone has had this problem before :O

---

### Post by sailthesea on 2009-06-27
Most likely the bearings have been damaged by the accumalated dirt over time the noise is generated by play in the fans rotation Time for a new one ! Or sit very still

---

### Post by imagxz on 2009-06-28
I think your right sailthesea... I took it apart just now(**what a pain in the ******. Thought I could get to the bearing wherever the heck it is, ended up unplugging every component then not having a small enough screwdriver to open up the fan.
I put it back together and not a sound, not even when I shake it around. It was started to get to the point that I wouldnt even move and it would happen every 10-30 minutes. If it starts again I'll be sure to replace the fan.

Thanks again sailthesea and the rest of you all :)

---

### Post by sailthesea on 2009-06-28
Yeah order a new fan You will need it You wont be able to do anything to anything with a worn out unit Just replace it

---

### Post by imagxz on 2009-06-29
Thanks dude, will do:guitar:

---

