---
title: "USB-pedal hid input doesn't work"
date: 2008-10-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by keuner on 2008-10-10
I'm trying to get an USB-pedal to work.

It's supposed to work just like a generic keyboard that has just two keys triggered respectively by the pressing and releasing of the pedal. The manufacturer by the name of cleware claims that on mac, win and linux stations the hid hardware should work without the need of further special driver software. So much for theory.

Evidence has it that, cable plugged and device noticed by hal, just nothing will happen either pressing, holding or releasing the pedal.

No events could be read out by neither $ xev nor $ acpi_listen (except the plug-event marked by "processor CPU0 00000081 00000000", no keyboard-events are generated by the pedal)

So far I tried to set up an X input device in the xorg.conf, using evdev driver and the input-device given in the dmesg output, which didn't help.

I attach some output that might help to analyse this. And yes, the device is operational as tested on more than one windows-box and one mac g5, just in case.

If anyone could give some advice on how to go about this matter I would kindly appreciate that.

Thanks for helping

---

### Post by glurgle on 2008-12-06
FWIW, I am also having trouble with HID input, but from all devices. In this case, I'm using software that could access my keyboard/mouse etc. directly as HID devices before I upgraded to 8.10, and now it sees the devices (and their labels) but receives no events. I'm stumped as to where the problem lies though...

---

