---
title: "16.10 Brother DCP-7064DN no longer works"
date: 2017-01-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by arlenn2 on 2017-01-15
I performed a clean install of 16.10.  The printer is now apart of the package, no trouble there.  However I cannot get the scanner working.  I have tried most of the guides.  Their install script... and nothing.  I did work 2 weeks ago when I was on 16.04.

I will take any suggestions?

The driver is installed,
I can ping the scanner though brsaneconfig4,
I have made a bunch of sym-links as suggested with usr/lib usr/lib64 thing,
It does not appear to be a permissions problem,

I will take any help, 

Thanks.

---

### Post by arlenn2 on 2017-01-15
Being network connected, I never in a million years would have though this would make any improvement... but it worked.

From Brother:
**I'm using Ubuntu 16.10. I cannot scan from my Brother Machine.** 

Install the **"libusb-0.1-4"**. 


[LIST=1]
[*]**Command : sudo   apt-get   update**

[*]**Command : sudo   apt-get   install   libusb-0.1-4**
[/LIST]
 "

---

### Post by pdc on 2017-01-15
well done to get that sorted; how did you stumble on that? If you have just installed 16.10, it will expire in six months so you will need to install a new version in July this year so you may be faced with further issues then; some more timid folks just revert to the LTS versions that run for 5 years; [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases)

---

### Post by arlenn2 on 2017-01-16
It was an active decision to go to 16.10.  There were some bugs in Libre-Office in 16.04, that were bothering me a bit.  The HDD was being replaced anyway, thought I would give it a whirl.

---

### Post by pdc on 2017-01-16
good work; enjoy

---

