---
title: "113-pc5010-08a"
date: 2011-07-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by sunyer on 2011-07-18
I'm beginner in ubuntu, I installed ubuntu 11.04 in an Asrock p4vm900 and I receive this text before bios starts, 113-PC5010-08A, when I receive this text bios doesn't starts. I have to shut down and restart, and then with a bit of luck sometimes runs. Can anyone help me?
Before ubuntu I tried to install kubuntu, and happened the same.

Thanks for the support.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-18
If you see a message with that string as the BIOS starts then this is a problem with the BIOS or the motherboard itself, or part of your hardware. Do you get any text apart from "113-PC5010-08A", or is that all you see on screen?

---

### Post by sunyer on 2011-07-18
It's all that I see in the screen.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-18
> **sunyer said:**
> It's all that I see in the screen.

Well - that's not much to go on. Googling "113-PC5010-08A" produces only this thread and a couple of sites in French where the string "113-PC5010-08A" appears under the heading "[ Debug - Video BIOS ]", which might give a clue where to start. So...

I have only a few suggestions.

1 - Do you have a separate graphics card, and does that motherboard have onboard graphics? If so, Try it with both the graphics card and then take out the card and try it with the onboard graphics.

2 - Try resetting the CMOS on the motherboard. If that doesn't work, try booting the machine until you get lucky and then go into the BIOS and reset it to defaults.

3 - Think about possible problems in other parts of your hardware. Did you add anything recently, such as RAM or a PCI card? Perhaps the power supply is failing. Perhaps you have a RAM problem.

---

### Post by sunyer on 2011-07-18
I think it was solved, I had a pci graphic card, I removed this from my computer and now I'm running with the onboard graphics, it seems that is working. I thank you so much your hellp coffecat.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-18
Yes, sounds like a problem with the PCI graphics card. I'm glad you've solved it.

Good luck! :)

---

