---
title: "9.10 - Epson SX200 - Sane does not detect scanner"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by x86-64-Scotland on 2009-11-01
After upgrading a friend to 9.10, it found his printer, but sane does not detect the scanner. Anyone else experience this, or have a work around?

TIA

---

### Post by bjerven on 2009-11-01
Same for me upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10. Epson RX620. Can print cant scan...

---

### Post by zenade on 2009-11-02
This is a slight modification of the instructions I previously gave for Ubuntu 9.04 on [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1234906&highlight=sx200](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1234906&highlight=sx200) to get the Epson Stylus SX200 scanner working on Ubuntu 9.10 using Xsane.

Open epson2.conf

```
sudo gedit /etc/sane.d/epson2.conf
```And add the following 3 lines:

```
usb 0x4b8 0x849
usb /dev/usbscanner0
usb /dev/usb/scanner0
```Create 45-libsane.rules

```
sudo gedit /etc/udev/rules.d/45-libsane.rules
```And add the following 2 lines:

```
# Epson Stylus SX200
SYSFS{idVendor}=="04b8", SYSFS{idProduct}=="0849", MODE="664", GROUP="saned"

```Open System > Administration > Users and Groups

Select your user account.
Click the keys icon.
Enter password.
Click Manage Groups.
Select saned.
Click Properties.
Tick your username in Group Members.
Click OK.
Click Close.
Click Close.
Reboot.

Select Applications > Graphics > Xsane Image scanning program.

---

### Post by foogoo on 2009-12-21
THANK YOU zenade!!! I've spent close to 10 hours over two days trying to figure out how to get my Epson 3170 to work with 9.10. Yours is the only solution that's worked!

---

### Post by TimVB on 2009-12-31
For the RX620, use this in 45-libsane.rules

# Epson Stylus RX620
SYSFS{idVendor}=="04b8", SYSFS{idProduct}=="0811", MODE="664", GROUP="saned"

and it should work.

---

### Post by DrJohn999 on 2010-01-17
> **foogoo said:**
> THANK YOU zenade!!! I've spent close to 10 hours over two days trying to figure out how to get my Epson 3170 to work with 9.10. Yours is the only solution that's worked!

foogoo == how exactly did you get the 3170 to work? Mine is recognized by sane-find-scanner:

```
...
found USB scanner (vendor=0x04b8 [EPSON], product=0x0116 [EPSON Scanner]) at libusb:002:003

```

I've edited /etc/sane.d/epson2.conf and inserted into the #USB section:

```
usb 0x04b8 0x0116
usb /dev/usbscanner0
usb /dev/usb/scanner0

```

where the product ID and device ID are set to match this scanner. I added /etc/udev/rules.d/45-libsane.rules:

```
# Epson Perfection 3170 Photo
SYSFS{idVendor}=="04b8", SYSFS{idProduct}=="0116", MODE="666", GROUP="saned"

```

(mode="664" as in the earlier posts did not work either), and added my username to the 'saned' group, but the 3170 does not appear in the output of scanimage -L.

This scanner passes through into a VirtualBox install of Windows 7 and scans there with no problems.

I also have an HP OfficeJet V40, the scanner of which is recognized and does scan in xsane. 

The 3170 is not explicitly supported in the Epson backends, so how were able to get it recognized?

---

### Post by frettbe on 2010-12-15
Hi, 

First thank you. Works perfectly on lucid.

I just have a question. What if my sx200 is connected on a server?

Should I modify 
```

usb 0x04b8 0x0116 usb /dev/usbscanner0 usb /dev/usb/scanner0

```

on 

```

net ipadress
net /dev/usbscanner0 
net /dev/usb/scanner0

```

?

Thx in advance

---

