---
title: "8.10 so far ok on HP G60-123CL"
date: 2008-11-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by gpenguin on 2008-11-24
Nothing is more frustrating than buying a new laptop only to find nothing works on it except for the factory installed Vista.  That's where I was with my new HP G60-123CL I bought at Costco Wholesale.  Even got into an argument with my wife due to my frustrations.

I tried Xubuntu 8.04 and video, wireless, and who knows what else, didn't work.  Tried Linux Mint...wouldn't boot.  Tried OpenSUSE, failed at least video and wireless.  Even tried Windows XP and it couldn't correctly identify the hard drive! (saw 130G when I have a 320G)

Xubuntu 8.10 was my last attempt before returning the laptop and moving to paper and pencil.  Saved...well, so far.

Video needed the v177 proprietary driver, audio worked out of the box, and even wireless worked out of the box.  I haven't tried everything like the mic, webcam, modem, etc.  But with video/audio/wireless working, I'll at least not be returning the laptop this weekend.

I'll post updates as I find out more.  One thing I did notice doesn't work is the touchpad "disable" button.  This laptop has a button at the top of the touch pad which, in Vista anyway, disabled the touchpad.  This is kinda nice so that you don't highlight and erase text.  Xubuntu doesn't seem to handle this.  Though you can imagine it's a very small issue.

So to the Xubuntu team for 8.10...nice job and thank you!  Now I need to go make peace with my wife. :)

--GPenguin

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2008-11-25
As promised I'm back to report a bit more.  Specifically I tested the suspend and hibernate from the "power" switch on XFCE and also tested just closing the lid.

First, I went to "shutdown" but hit 'suspend'.  The system "seemed" to suspend just fine so I shut the lid.  Waited a few and then opened the lid.  The system seemed to come back just fine. However, whenever I tried to do *anything*, no luck.  I tried to quit...nothing.  I tried to close the running app...I got an error dialog.  I pressed the power button on the machine and got an I/O error on sda1.  I went to console #1 (Alt-F1) and attempted to login as root...I/O error on sda1.  I had to hold the power to force power-down.  When I powered back up, I didn't see any chkdsk forced but then again, I'm using the proprietary nVidia driver and the boot splash screen was a bit "off".

Next, I attempted the same but this time "hibernated".  It appeared the system fully shutdown.  So I hit the power button to boot up and I got a message to please wait...it was waking up.  And it did, no problems.  All seemed fine.

Finally, I was up with a terminal open and just closed the lid.  Waited...nothing happened.  The screen went dark and nothing else.  Of course I just saw that's the assigned action for closing the lid. *doh*

Conclusion, stay away from suspend, go with hibernate and save your data. *smile*

I'll continue testing and continue to report.

--gpenguin

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2008-11-25
Last update for tonight.  I tested the internal and external mics and speakers.  All worked.  However the internal mic did have some "noise" due to my needing to turn up the volume on the external mic to record nicely (with audacity).  The external mic worked much better.

Also, the built in webcam worked.  I installed 'cheese' and 'gqcam'.  Cheese found the webcam with no problem and was able to take a picture.  gqcam failed with a '/dev/video' not found.  I didn't not attempt anything further.  My guess is I need a symlink from /dev/video to the actual device.

Anyhow, tomorrow I hope to test the CD/DVD burner.  Goodnight!

--GPenguin

---

### Post by tha5150 on 2008-11-29
hey there. i think you are the only person on Gods green earth to have the same model as me. i had a bear of a time getting xp to work 100%, but i did. 

now i have moved on and trying to install OSX dual boot and nothing seems to work at all. i have never used linux but suprised you got it installed. this laptop seems to not like anything at all. i got mine at costco also. 

got any advice for me on this? any good with OSX?

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2008-11-30
No, I know nothing about OSX, sorry.  However, I'd love to hear where/how you found drivers for XP?  I can't even get XP to identify the HD correctly.  The default install (not SP2) only sees 130G.  My guess is I need SATA drivers on install, but never investigated too hard.

As for XUbuntu, I have found the network seems a little sluggish.  Youtube videos keep pausing while network continues to send ad/stat crap.  However, if I download the video and then play it...no problems.  Still need to test CD/DVD Burning and DVD playing.

--GPenguin

---

### Post by tha5150 on 2008-11-30
Tell ya what, pm me your email and I will zip all the xp drivers I got I would only assume it works. It did take me some time to find them but I hate vista with a passion. Although I am thinking of installing it to see if I can't get my osx to dual boot. I have yet to even get all the filed to load from cd to get to the install screen.

---

### Post by tha5150 on 2008-11-30
yo bud, i tried installing this tonight and didnt work. i couldnt partition the hard drive. what were the options you chose? do you remember exactly? i have a 30gb partition NTFS and didnt work. tried all the options to partition hfs, fat32, etc. all have an error with the same thing. (no specified boot log) or something like that. 

i have never played with Linux so any help would be much appreciated. 



and like i said, email me and i will send you a zip of all the xp drivers you need. i got 182mb zipped up for ya already.

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2008-11-30
Wow, thanks for the offer for the XP drivers, but since 8.10 is working, I have no desire for putting XP on this box.  I'll be installing VMWare and putting XP there.  Appreciate the offer though and will keep you in mind if my mind changes.

As for my hard drive, I did a "Guided Use Full Disk" option I think. Yeah, 'cause according to my partition table, it is setup in a way I wouldn't normally do it.  It has sda1 as primary for 312G, and an 8G Extended used fully for Swap.

Based upon what you're telling me, you have no Linux partitions for Ubuntu to install on.  Plus, after partitioning your drive, you'll need to setup one of the partitions to be bootable (toggle the boot flag).

Hmmm....the easiest thing I can think of is to partition something for NTFS (unless you already have it) and then let the install use the free disk space.  WARNING: I have never gone this approach so do not know what it does...i.e. if it "moves/changes/etc" any existing XP partition you have setup.

In most cases, I've seen people install Linux first and then their Windows OS.  Windows then overwrites the boot loader which in turn needs to be fixed.  

A quick google found this page:

  [http://apcmag.com/how_to_dual_boot_windows_xp_and_linux_xp_installed_first.htm](http://apcmag.com/how_to_dual_boot_windows_xp_and_linux_xp_installed_first.htm)

which may help guide you on how to get Linux installed *after* windows has been installed.

Sorry for the long windedness, but hopefully it gives some ideas.

--GPenguin

---

### Post by tha5150 on 2008-11-30
this is the guide that i used. unfortunately, when i did it like this suggested, the partition manager said "the processed encountered errors and will now be terminated."


here are a few pics i snapped with my iPhone during the loading process that i found weird. sorry for some repeats but i wanted to keep taking them until the screen went away so i wouldn't miss any. i have had so many problems trying to install OSX that this is my new process during the installation process that isnt windows. [-(

let me know what you think. did you get any errors like this after you popped in the cd and booted? i got to the "install unbuntu" screen, then it loaded files from cd and these started popping up before i got to the partitioning, options, time, languare, etc,. 

[IMG]http://i108.photobucket.com/albums/n9/tha5150/Picture150.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://i108.photobucket.com/albums/n9/tha5150/Picture151.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://i108.photobucket.com/albums/n9/tha5150/Picture152.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://i108.photobucket.com/albums/n9/tha5150/Picture153.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://i108.photobucket.com/albums/n9/tha5150/Picture154.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://i108.photobucket.com/albums/n9/tha5150/Picture155.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://i108.photobucket.com/albums/n9/tha5150/Picture156.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by tha5150 on 2008-11-30
update!!!

I deleted the partion I made for this install and started up the cd again and I worked like a charm. Just started installing unbuntu 8.10. Hope everything will work out of the box as you say. Wireless, display, etc. If not kind sending me the drivers I ya got em?

I will update asap

---

### Post by tha5150 on 2008-11-30
ok, ok and ok. i am happy. i got it up and running. was just on it, surfing the net and all seemed ok. havent tried flash or youtube yet. but i have noticed that the linux install is very jumpy. i think this is due to me not defragging windows/HD before installing it. i know linux doesnt fragment. but i know that i definatly need to defrag that new partition. how do i do this? 

everything is very very jumpy.

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2008-12-01
Good luck!  Based on the screen shots of the I/O error on /dev/sr0, my first response would have been a badly burned CD.  When you boot the CD, there should be an option to check the install media.  It may take some time, but well worth it to avoid trouble-shooting later.

--GPenguin

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2008-12-01
The jumpy'ness probably isn't your hard drive.  Depending on the file system you used for the install, it should "take care of" itself.  Whatever was on the partition before was over-written and shouldn't be causing problems.

If you want, boot off the CD (assuming you've checked the media) and select the option to try XUbuntu first.  Then, get yourself a terminal, get root access, and then run 'fsck' on the hard drive partition you installed to.

So assuming your hard drive is "/dev/sda" and you installed XUbuntu onto "/dev/sda3", after getting root access, run:

   fsck /dev/sda3

This will perform Linux's version of a chkdsk/defrag.

--GPenguin

---

### Post by tha5150 on 2008-12-01
Ahhhh yeaaaa. Linux looks beautiful and all but I just don't see myself having time learning the commands and stuff. I will keep it intalled and play with it slowly. I desperately need to get osx installed though.

You had no luck? Why were your problems with what versions?

---

### Post by tallastro on 2008-12-03
gpenguin, try VirtualBox for your XP install.  I'm using 2.06 on my Ubuntu laptop (g60-120us) and it's work well. 

tha5150, try installing the proprietary video drivers and your jumpy display should be solved.  I'm having my own [issues]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=989581") with 3D but you may be fine.

---

### Post by tha5150 on 2008-12-03
all is fixed. needed the drivers. 

i am not so sure i needed to install Linux though. this is kinda hard for me to learn how to install things and figure other common things out.

---

### Post by tallastro on 2008-12-03
Just play with Linux for a bit.  Installing software via Synaptic (in your Administration menu) is very easy.  Figuring out which applications do what and what they're called may be a challenge sometimes.  Just like Windows or OSX, you can only learn through study and experience.  Good luck.

---

### Post by tha5150 on 2008-12-03
i installed Hellanzb, i think, and couldnt find it anywhere. i have no idea where it would go. i read up a bit and it said to use the search to find it in the /bin/usr folder and it was there. but opened it and nothing happened. just a bit frustrating. i will keep it installed and pay around a bit though for sure.

---

### Post by m0r7u71715 on 2008-12-12
> **tallastro said:**
> gpenguin, try VirtualBox for your XP install.  I'm using 2.06 on my Ubuntu laptop (g60-120us) and it's work well. 

tha5150, try installing the proprietary video drivers and your jumpy display should be solved.  I'm having my own [issues]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=989581") with 3D but you may be fine.

I've had no issues (yet) with 3D stuff on my 120us, I did have "jumpy" displays before I got the nVidia 177 drivers installed, but after that it was peachy.  We'll see as I get things set up on it (bought this laptop about 7 days ago).  What I was wondering is if you've had any luck getting your web camera to work?  I'm sure they're similar for all of our models.

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2008-12-12
Yeah, I got the webcam working with 'cheeze'.  Worked out of the box.  How about networking?  Mine is working but according to the connection info I'm only getting 1MB/s.  According to a bug report for the 2.6.27 kernel, its got to do with the Ath9K driver.  Either the kernel has to be patched (which I'm really not willing to try right now) or wait for XUbuntu to get a 2.6.28 kernel.

--GPenguin

---

### Post by nulled on 2008-12-15
tha5150..


saw that you mentioned having all the XP drivers for your HP G60-123CL.. 

Could I get you to send those to me?? Im wiping vista off this laptop and am having a difficult time finding the ethernet driver for this damn thing!!

Cheers!

-J

---

### Post by punkybouy on 2008-12-17
I have almost the same model:G60 125 something.  I used the 64 bit version of 8.10 and everything works except for suspend and hibernate.  I have a bug fix ticket open as suspends and hibernates in Intrepid appear to be hit or miss.

---

### Post by ebug on 2009-01-11
It is good to find this forum.
Anyway, is anyone be able to confirm DVD playback on G60 using intrepid 8.10? I plan to buy a G60 this week. I ask this because, my hp dv2416us dvd playback is choppy on intrepid. But on hardy, it is working very well.

So how's G60 (g60-120us or g60-117us)? Thanks to anyone who could give light on this.

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2009-01-11
Yes, I can confirm this with I think...MPlayer.  I was concerned about issues with the video but playback did seem fine.  HOWEVER, I did not test it for an extended period of time, i.e. I didn't watch the entire movie.  I've had issues on other machines and OSes where playback at first is fine, but minutes or even an hour in is off.  

If this is quite important to you and want this tested prior to purchase, let me know and I'll force myself to watch 'Real Genius' again. (Perhaps one of the best movies ever made...)

Enjoy!

--GPenguin

---

### Post by po_tph on 2009-01-26
HI!can you someone very tech. in this forum that can help in finding the driver for NVIDIA nForce 10/100/1000 Ethernet to be installed in WINDOWS 2003 advance server. i'm currently studying cisco so that i can get certifacation for cisco. thank you!

---

### Post by benji.ijneb on 2009-04-26
any luck with anyoune getting suspend to RAM to work on this machine? I'm running Arch Linux on it, works like a charm - everything except for this...

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2009-04-30
Hello All,

Just FYI, I upgraded my laptop to 9.04.  Wireless either is not reliable or not connecting at all.  I've submitted a bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/370185](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/370185)

Free free to add to that if you experience anything different.  I haven't testing anything else because 1) I want to keep the laptop "fresh" in case Launchpad needs me to test anyting, and 2) not worth testing anything else if I have no network.

Good Luck!

--GPenguin

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2009-04-30
Not sure what you mean by suspend to RAM.  I do have Suspend working on XUbuntu when I close the lid (at least I did prior to upgrading to 9.04).  Had no problems.

--GPenguin

---

### Post by benji.ijneb on 2009-05-01
> **gpenguin said:**
> Not sure what you mean by suspend to RAM.  I do have Suspend working on XUbuntu when I close the lid (at least I did prior to upgrading to 9.04).  Had no problems.

--GPenguin

by suspend to RAM, i mean the computer is just going into a suspended state - it still uses very little power and wakes up fast.

otherwise it could be suspending to disk, in which case it essentaly shuts down completely, and reloads everything up again when it restarts.

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2009-05-01
> **benji.ijneb said:**
> by suspend to RAM, i mean the computer is just going into a suspended state - it still uses very little power and wakes up fast.

otherwise it could be suspending to disk, in which case it essentaly shuts down completely, and reloads everything up again when it restarts.

Ah, suspending to RAM I call 'suspend'.  Suspending to disk, I thought was called 'Hibernate'.  Maybe that's just Windows.  

Either way, under XUbunut 8.10 I got it working just fine via the Settings manager.  Didn't have to tweak the kernel or power settings.

--GPenguin

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2009-05-06
Well, I've tried:

  - Installing 32 bit version
  - Installing 64 bit version
  - Dual booting 32 and 64 bit version...twice.

After installs, sometime the video drivers were installed, other times why weren't.  All times the network card driver, ath9k, was unreliable and inconsistent.  This so total sucks!

My primary reason for going to XUbuntu was to have a scaled down Linux to speed up my machine.  I honestly don't want to downgrade to XUbuntu 8.10 and go back to 1Mbps speeds, so it seems it is time for me to find another distro.

To the developers of XUbuntu, no hard feelings.  I still have 2 other boxes still on 8.10.  Perhaps once XUbuntu comes out with its next version yet I'll take another look.  Thanks for everything.

--GPenguin

---

### Post by solecoca on 2009-06-05
hi...im new in ubuntu, VERY new..and even more, im from argentina so reading and writting in english is kind of a problem..there are things that i dont understand.
i ve been looking for to solve the problem of the block touchpad button in an HP G60..it doesnt work, and i cant find anything on the web.
did you resolve it? 
hope can you help me, otherwise, if you can help me with where i can find a possible solution.

tks
sole

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2009-10-31
I had high hopes when 9.10 came out.  Could this be the release the wireless actually works?  It seemed to be so...54Mbps!  ...but in the midst of my celebration...CRASH!!!!!

54...1...48...disconnect...54...disconnect...1...54...48...disconnect...

*sigh*  Tried to download Mandriva on my server box (not running ubuntu) and even it kept stalling the wget because my SSH session kept flaking.  What good is a laptop without reliable wireless???

*seriously bummed...*

---

### Post by gpenguin on 2009-10-31
> **gpenguin said:**
> I had high hopes when 9.10 came out.  Could this be the release the wireless actually works?  It seemed to be so...54Mbps!  ...but in the midst of my celebration...CRASH!!!!!

54...1...48...disconnect...54...disconnect...1...54...48...disconnect...

*sigh*  Tried to download Mandriva on my server box (not running ubuntu) and even it kept stalling the wget because my SSH session kept flaking.  What good is a laptop without reliable wireless???

*seriously bummed...*

Addendum: Downloaded another distro and tried to launch X-CDRoast.  Said 'root' needed to configure it...no problem...this is normal.

Did the 'sudo...' thing and got an error that /usr/bin/cdrecord was not accessible.  Checked perms, full ownership by root.  Not accessible by root???

Planned to logout and log in as 'root'.  Went to look for setting app to allow 'root' in on console...could not find.  So I just logged out and my screen flickered on a text login and something about restarting CUPS.  Cntrl-Alt-Backspace did nothing.

Held down Alt key and *slid* my finger from key 1 to 6 to try and piss off the terminal app.  Succeeded...finally got a login prompt (text-based).  Logged in as root and did 'startx'...fail.  Said it couldn't find any screens!!!

Rebooted the damn machine.  Got GUI login clicked 'Other user account' and was provided with...NOTHING!  Click on black white area and all of a sudden the place for a username showed up.

Logged in as root successfully...didn't need to provide perms. (Why did Xubuntu go less secure on this????  Whatever.)

Launched X-CDRoast from menu...nothing happened.  Launched from CLI because actually I knew the same damn error was showing up.  When launched from CLI, sure enough...unable to access /usr/bin/cdrecord (which BTW is a symlink to wodim which is also perms of 755).

Logged into this forum and at the top read:

  "...the best version of Ubuntu yet."

I can not disagree more!!!!  Haven't had this distro installed for more than an hour and already:

  - wireless issues
  - security issue
  - file access problems
  - logout/login issue

*ugh*  I'm done.

---

### Post by viper250 on 2009-10-31
If you are new to linux and do not wish to use windows then use the guided partitioning feature to take over entire drive and install the bootloader to the mbr 
a swap partition is not needed if you have lots of memory  
you can use the partition editor to configure an extra storage partition that you can name. and copy your files to This allows you to back up your data easily in one place where you can organize and burn to cd later

---

