---
title: "17.10: Mouse Wheel Emulation Fails after upgrade"
date: 2017-10-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by phillip2 on 2017-10-20
I have just upgrade a desktop machine from to Ubuntu 17.10. Unfortunately, this has broken the mouse wheel emulation of my Logitech MarbleMouse. I am using the follow to configure it./

    xinput --set-prop "Logitech USB Trackball" "libinput Button Scrolling Button" 8

If this seems like deja vu, it's because the upgrade from 17.04 also broke the marble mouse but in a different way.

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2360977](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2360977)

Any help welcome.

---

### Post by phillip2 on 2017-10-21
Okay, solution found

[http://www.russet.org.uk/blog/3181](http://www.russet.org.uk/blog/3181)

---

### Post by phillip2 on 2017-10-31
Solution unfound. xinput --list no longer shows the Logitech USB Trackball.

---

### Post by Rhysem on 2017-10-31
It was working fine for me under the wayland/gnome3 session ... if by fine you mean "only using the left small button." Unfortunately I'm a leftie, so I need it to use the right small button when I have the "left handed mouse" set, and it doesn't.

My "solution" was to fallback to X/gnome3, in which case your old config should work out of the box. Also, the trackball shows up as "Logitech USB Trackball" once you do, so all the usual commands, such as your link, work.

What you do when they drop X in 18.04 (or whenever that happens) though... I don't know.

---

### Post by Rhysem on 2017-10-31
Looks like between:

[https://github.com/GNOME/mutter/blob/master/src/backends/meta-input-settings.c#L713-L750](https://github.com/GNOME/mutter/blob/master/src/backends/meta-input-settings.c#L713-L750)

and

[https://github.com/GNOME/gsettings-desktop-schemas/blob/master/schemas/org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.gschema.xml.in#L173](https://github.com/GNOME/gsettings-desktop-schemas/blob/master/schemas/org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.gschema.xml.in#L173)

this shouldn't be difficult. That said I'm currently in X, not Wayland, so I can't test it...

---

### Post by Rhysem on 2017-10-31
So I don't know why it started working, I'd previously tried setting this but...

% gsettings list-keys org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.trackball
scroll-wheel-emulation-button
accel-profile
% gsettings get org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.trackball scroll-wheel-emulation-button
9

... and the right side mini button scrolls. Unfortunately clicking them does forward and back and I'm not sure I like that but hey its a start!

It *might* be it only takes effect at login. That'd explain it, but I don't know that I like that explanation.

Edit: Nope, this box launched xorg, not wayland even after picking a non "on Xorg" session. Not sure what's up.

---

### Post by phillip2 on 2017-11-01
What do you get from "xinput --list"

---

### Post by Rhysem on 2017-11-01
At the moment, useful output because I am running under X.

% xinput
&#9121; Virtual core pointer                    	id=2	[master pointer  (3)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Virtual core XTEST pointer              	id=4	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Microsoft Natural® Ergonomic Keyboard 4000	id=10	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Logitech USB Trackball                  	id=11	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9123; Virtual core keyboard                   	id=3	[master keyboard (2)]
    &#8627; Virtual core XTEST keyboard             	id=5	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                            	id=6	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Video Bus                               	id=7	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                            	id=8	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Microsoft Natural® Ergonomic Keyboard 4000	id=9	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Microsoft Natural® Ergonomic Keyboard 4000	id=12	[slave  keyboard (3)]

Not sure why switching off the gnome (xorg) isn't working for me, but it isn't. Probably won't have time to play with it for a while unfortunately.

---

### Post by phillip2 on 2017-11-02
Yep, wayland does not seem to give useful information.

Now, here is the surprising thing. Suddenly it's started working. I *think* this is because I tried

gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.trackball scroll-wheel-emulation-button 8

which appeared to have no effect what so ever. Then I rebooted. Now it's working. Cause-and-effect here are not clear, though, so take this with a pinch of salt.

---

### Post by Rhysem on 2017-11-02
After you rebooted, did you check you're actually still in a wayland session?

---

### Post by beerislife on 2017-11-03
This is what worked for me:

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2376507](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2376507)

---

### Post by phillip2 on 2018-01-25
I've just updated another machine (and the scroll wheel broke). I tried this again:

    gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.trackball scroll-wheel-emulation-button 8

And it does appear to work.

---

