---
title: "New 12.10 install, video driver issues"
date: 2012-11-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by RayDeCampo on 2012-11-19
I did a fresh 12.10 64-bit install on a rig where I had 12.04 32-bit installed and working fine.  The 12.04 install used the NVIDIA drivers (I have that install mounted for reference if needed).  The 12.10 seems to be using nouveau, but I am not sure.  I am getting a lot of instability in the driver, e.g. just now I could not log in due to an error in nouveau.

I tried installing NVIDIA by using nvidia-current-updates but that made things worse.  E.g., it was stuck at a very low resolution.

The output from lspci is as follows:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation G96 [GeForce 9400 GT] (rev a1)

Is there some trick to getting the NVIDIA driver installed?  Or a setting to make the nouveau driver work?

Please advise.

---

### Post by Sashin9000 on 2012-11-20
I've been having issues with a 12.10 install as well, with NVIDIA drivers. It worked perfectly on 12.04, with compiz running and full graphics etc.

On 12.10 it becomes really, really, really slow. And when I check, system monitor it can even report compiz as using over 100% CPU somehow.

It's not a real fix, but what I've done is install the lubuntu desktop.

   $  sudo apt-get install lubuntu-desktop

It's not as cool or as shiny as the normal ubuntu desktop, but it's running at full speed. It would be cool to have regular Ubuntu running full speed though (as it was in 12.04).

---

### Post by RayDeCampo on 2012-11-20
My problem is not that it is slow.  Every once in a while it just becomes unusable necessitating a reboot.  Like the card starts drawing things from random places in memory (e.g. another user's desktop is draw upside-down while the first user is logged in).  Or the problem preventing log in that I outlined in my first post.

Can anyone just point me to where things are configured or some documentation so I can start to get a purchase on it?  The 'restricted drivers' configuration I have seen in the past appears to be missing.

---

### Post by distant40 on 2012-11-20
Heya all,
First time I have ever tried Ubuntu...At first I didn't think the 12.10 64bit was going to work because it kept saying the GPU is lockedup. I did a little surfing and figured out how to get it to work for my Nvidia 580 GTX. First step was wait for the ubuntu logon screen to pop up then and then hit CTRL-ALT-F1 which took me to a command prompt where I had to login using the same User Name and Password when I first installed it! Next I typed in :
 
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-current
 
Tha basically told me it wasn't installed ?!??!! Anyway the command that installed the files was...
 
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic nvidia-current
 
The I rebooted and got 1 video error after being able to log into the GUI and have not had one since!! Just make sure you goto the settings for the drivers and tweak them after! Hope this helps someone!
 
Good Luck All!
distant40

---

### Post by RayDeCampo on 2012-11-21
I tried installing nvidia-current and had the same issues as with nvidia-current-updates:  the screen was the wrong resolution and did not take up the whole monitor.

Does anyone know what package contains the 'Additional Drivers' configuration app?

---

### Post by distant40 on 2012-11-21
> **RayDeCampo said:**
> I tried installing nvidia-current and had the same issues as with nvidia-current-updates:  the screen was the wrong resolution and did not take up the whole monitor.

Does anyone know what package contains the 'Additional Drivers' configuration app?


Have you tried going to dash home and typing nvidia ? You should have Nvidia X Server Settings app there and Also you can setup displays under the hardware section and in the system settings you can find out which driver it is recommending you use I have 5 listed there lol its the last additional drivers tab in software sources you may also want to get the app Psensor from the Ubuntu Software center....it keeps track of my temps atleast!!
Hope some of this or all of this helps good luck!!
Distant :KS

---

### Post by RayDeCampo on 2012-11-21
> **distant40 said:**
> Have you tried going to dash home and typing nvidia ? You should have Nvidia X Server Settings app there and Also you can setup displays under the hardware section and in the system settings you can find out which driver it is recommending you use I have 5 listed there lol its the last additional drivers tab in software sources you may also want to get the app Psensor from the Ubuntu Software center....it keeps track of my temps atleast!!
Hope some of this or all of this helps good luck!!
Distant :KS

No, I have nothing under nvidia via dash.

Thanks for the heads up for additional drivers.  I'll give them a try give I can afford a little down time.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2012-11-21
Several people (myself included) found that the latest "experimental" drivers in that drivers tab are the most stable. Can't remember the number and not near that machine at the moment (think it ended in 10).

EDIT
it was version 310.

---

### Post by Bill Gates Foundation on 2012-11-25
Try this.......................[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2081280](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2081280)


my desktop with 1gig nvidia had resoultion problems after a reboot......i guess the resolution is broken because of some new kernal....

system was up to date but not fixed,,,,,

:popcorn::popcorn::popcorn:

---

### Post by RayDeCampo on 2012-11-25
Actually I tried installing the most stable nvidia driver via the 'Additional Drivers' tab in Software Source and so far that has been working.  The resolution came up correctly after reboot and so far it has been stable, although it has not been running long enough yet to really know.

I meant to say I had seen that post before, that was how I tried nvidia-driver-current to begin with; it did not work out for me.

---

