---
title: "2018 Dell XPS 13 i7"
date: 2018-09-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by andrew80 on 2018-09-22
Hi all,

I've been using Linux on numerous laptops, about 2.5 years ago my Lenovo gave up and a local lad had a 2010 Macbook Pro 13 for sale. So I bought it and upgraded it to 8gb ram and 256gb SSD.

The machine is now struggling to run videos, overheats, has 2 hours battery if I'm lucky and no longer has OS Support from Apple (stuck on High Sierra) plus its quite chunky. 

I'm contemplating getting a new machine, I'm not an apple fan at all (Android user, ChromeOS user and Google services user) but got to admit the Macbook has been a dream, So I was looking at getting a 2017 Macbook Pro 13 for around £1200 + £200 trade in for my old MBP. 

But I have spotted this:
[https://www.dell.com/en-uk/shop/laptops-notebooks-and-2-in-1-laptops/new-xps-13/spd/xps-13-9370-laptop/cnx37011](https://www.dell.com/en-uk/shop/laptops-notebooks-and-2-in-1-laptops/new-xps-13/spd/xps-13-9370-laptop/cnx37011)


So now I'm feeling I should do the right thing and go back to Linux, Has anybody got this machine? how is 18.04 LTS? what I want to avoid is rubbish hardware support, I used to enjoy messing with Linux but these days I just want an OS that works, so I will be sticking with the LTS versions. 

Only thing I can see is the Macbook has a better screen. 

The only other thing to note is, I currently use a piece of software for my car (COBB Tuning Accessport) which is only MacOS/Windows. it connects to a hand held device via USB. If I run Windows in VM Ware will it have good USB support?

---

### Post by andrew80 on 2018-09-22
P.S I tried to get Ubuntu working on my 2010 MBP via dual boot earlier in the year, I got it to work but then it wiped my MacOS so I gave up in the end.

---

### Post by FrancoNero on 2019-04-18
So I have a 2019 Dell XPS 13 now for about two weeks. Fairly positive impression, after switching from a MacBook Air 11" (1st gen)... some snags and hickups, and my major gripe is Dell's dumb LTS-fetish, but overall quite a solid performer

---

