---
title: "8.10 - Graphics card... where is it???"
date: 2009-02-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Snow Keld on 2009-02-26
this might just be very simple, but i dont know.


i just recently finished destroying my last install of ubuntu 8.04 (my own fault) and wanted to start fresh with xubuntu 8.10, before i had installed with gnome ubuntu desktop 8.04 and my graphics card popped right up and it got the drivers for me and i was able to activate it and all was good.

with my fresh install it never said anything and when i go to hardware drivers theres nothing at all.

i have NO idea what the graphics card is without pulling it out and reading the fine print... if there is any, so i figured i should ask if i'm doing something wrong first.


help with this would be much appreciated, without it i cant play foobillard or openarena :D
na, my comp is so slow without it, its not cool... esp when it worked fine before.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2009-02-26
What graphics card do you have?

Do you maybe have an old nVidia card? As the [Ubuntu 8.10 release notes](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810) say, it might not be possible to get the nVidia driver working with an old card:
> nVidia "legacy" video support

The 71 and 96 series of proprietary nVidia drivers, as provided by the nvidia-glx-legacy and nvidia-glx packages in Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, are not compatible with the X.Org included in Ubuntu 8.10. Users with the nVidia TNT, TNT2, TNT Ultra, GeForce, GeForce2, GeForce3, and GeForce4 chipsets are affected and will be transitioned on upgrade to the free nv driver instead. This driver does not support 3D acceleration.

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-02-26
If you want to know which nvidia graphic card you have, open a terminal and run

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by Snow Keld on 2009-02-26
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV5 [RIVA TNT2/TNT2 Pro] (rev 15)
```

well, i figure this means theres not much i can do at all???

---

