---
title: "9.04 ati driver install problem"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by hedehodo on 2009-04-24
i am kind of a newbie. but i can take i instructions well :) in ubuntu 9.04 i saw the option in add/remove packages to add the ati driver and catalyst control panel packages to ubuntu as i have x550 ati card i added those. it gave no errors in the adding. but when i restarted all i got was this corrupt screen. i think i just want to be able to rever back to the original for starters. how can i do that?
thanks for the guidance..

---

### Post by hedehodo on 2009-04-24
i think i forgot to add that i am using a live usb disk with persistence..

---

### Post by Bateluer on 2009-04-24
I've had this happen before, but cannot remember exactly how I resolved it. It required the configuration file for X to be rebuilt, x.conf.

Or you could turn off persisitance on the live USB disk.

---

### Post by necr0mancer on 2009-04-24
I had the same problem, Im also new to linux. I have a ATI Radeon 4870x2 and i also did wat u did and my whole screen messed up. I had to re-install ubuntu... I dunno how to install new drivers for my gfx card on ubuntu. Any help?

---

### Post by LightningW on 2009-04-24
I had the same problem (actually worst: very high lag, display settings frozing, no expanded desktop) with 4850 Toxic on 24" dual screens.
The solution is very simple. Just install the offical ATI display driver from amd.com but don't forget to deactive that bad thing before.

---

### Post by hedehodo on 2009-04-25
"It required the configuration file for X to be rebuilt, x.conf."
how could i do that? i think i have to drop to terminal someway while the os is booting. but i dont know any keyboard shortcuts and any codes to do that?

---

### Post by gocek on 2009-04-25
Well, although the driver doesn't work well for me, there's one thing I think you might be missing.

Try typing 
```
sudo aticonfig --initial -f
```

just after installing the drivers, before reboot. 

Or if your screen is messed up get into recovery mode and drop to shell as a root and then run
```
sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
```
so you will revert to the open source "radeon" driver

---

### Post by MichaelPalin on 2009-04-25
I had this problem for ages and I have finally learn how to revert them.

- First of all, reboot the computer in Ubuntu [_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]recovery mode[/COLOR]_]("http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_LKra8AUL9bY/SRlekW3RnSI/AAAAAAAAALg/Ucgm8hQealc/s400/20081111148.jpg"). If you start it normally, the X starts and, as the graphics driver don't work, it crashes.

- When loaded select the option "[_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]root[/COLOR]_]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/images/resetpassword03.png")" or, if you want, root with internet connectivity (although I don't think you'll need it at all).

- Now you are on console mode and you have to remove the privative drivers:
```
apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
```

- Once removed, you have to reset the xorg.conf file, which is a configuration file for the graphical interface. It is in "/etc/X11" and, most likely, you will have various backup files that are automatically generated for various reasons (driver change, for example). You have to change an older one for the new one (the one which says that fglrx is to be used).

- Exit to recovery mode menu with command "exit" and resume normal boot.

If you want me to give you more details, feel free to ask. And, if you don't have an older xorg.conf (you should at least have xorg.conf~) I can write you a generic one.

By the way, I'm sorry to communicate you that any Radeon under HD2xxx wont have support for Catalyst 9.4 or newer and that Ubuntu 9.04, with XServer 1.6 wont work with Catalyst 9.3 or older. But the free drivers should work perfect for an old card like yours.

[EDIT] According to [_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]this tutorial[/COLOR]_]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide"), there is still hope for under R500 Radeon cards. [_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]Here[/COLOR]_]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide#Post-Installation_Tweaks").

---

### Post by hedehodo on 2009-04-25
well thank you all for the help.. but i got left nothing else to do but to remake the usb.. well at least in my knowledge that is.. i tried to install the ati drivers again but whenever i said aticonfig --initial it said that no cards detected... so i guess i will wait for a much more stable versions of the driver to come out..

---

### Post by vinics on 2009-04-25
Thanks.. This works for me..

I am a ati radeon xpress 200M on AMD turion.. and a newbie!

:guitar:

---

### Post by hasplu on 2009-04-25
> **MichaelPalin said:**
> I had this problem for ages and I have finally learn how to revert them.

- First of all, reboot the computer in Ubuntu [_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]recovery mode[/COLOR]_]("http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_LKra8AUL9bY/SRlekW3RnSI/AAAAAAAAALg/Ucgm8hQealc/s400/20081111148.jpg"). If you start it normally, the X starts and, as the graphics driver don't work, it crashes.

- When loaded select the option "[_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]root[/COLOR]_]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/images/resetpassword03.png")" or, if you want, root with internet connectivity (although I don't think you'll need it at all).

- Now you are on console mode and you have to remove the privative drivers:
```
apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
```

- Once removed, you have to reset the xorg.conf file, which is a configuration file for the graphical interface. It is in "/etc/X11" and, most likely, you will have various backup files that are automatically generated for various reasons (driver change, for example). You have to change an older one for the new one (the one which says that fglrx is to be used).

- Exit to recovery mode menu with command "exit" and resume normal boot.

If you want me to give you more details, feel free to ask. And, if you don't have an older xorg.conf (you should at least have xorg.conf~) I can write you a generic one.

By the way, I'm sorry to communicate you that any Radeon under HD2xxx wont have support for Catalyst 9.4 or newer and that Ubuntu 9.04, with XServer 1.6 wont work with Catalyst 9.3 or older. But the free drivers should work perfect for an old card like yours.

[EDIT] According to [_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]this tutorial[/COLOR]_]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide"), there is still hope for under R500 Radeon cards. [_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]Here[/COLOR]_]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide#Post-Installation_Tweaks").

Thanks, man :) This worked just fine for me. The problem with the drivers still stands anyway - I can't watch normly youtube for example - it goes frame by frame....

---

### Post by ram4nd on 2009-04-26
I have the same problem with my x200m, hope they solve it soon.

---

### Post by bebox on 2009-04-26
can somebody explain to me what is:

> aticonfig --initial -f?

---

### Post by gocek on 2009-04-26
> **bebox said:**
> can somebody explain to me what is:

?

Briefly: modifies the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to work with ATI driver and sets the default options.

More info:
[http://www.debian-doc.org/man/1/a/aticonfig.html](http://www.debian-doc.org/man/1/a/aticonfig.html)

aticonfig - parse an existing X-Server configuration file and modify it to operate with ATI products  
ATICONFIG is a tool which should help you to create an (initial) X-server configuration file using the fglrx(4x) video driver. You can enable or disable special driver options.  

--initial

    Generate a default ATI device section in the configuration file which is capable of loading the fglrx driver. 

-f, --force

    Force aticonfig to generate default Monitor, Device and Screen sections even if the original configuration file has invalid settings in these sections. Only valid with --initial option.

---

### Post by bebox on 2009-04-27
thank you!

---

### Post by emarkay on 2009-04-30
Here's the main thread trying to figure this out:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133931](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133931)

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-04-30
> **necr0mancer said:**
> I had the same problem, Im also new to linux. I have a ATI Radeon 4870x2 and i also did wat u did and my whole screen messed up. I had to re-install ubuntu... I dunno how to install new drivers for my gfx card on ubuntu. Any help?
Dude I thinks its awesome you are new to linux and after 6 days now you are still getting ignored and brushed off. That is so cool. Well unless i missed a post about how to actually successfully install the ati drivers. I bet you are fired up about waiting for an answer.... Just kidding, kinda... :)

I feel your pain I to have a 4870X2 and silly me i got the latest OS and ATI Driver and no go here... LOL 
sigh

---

### Post by Neotelos on 2009-04-30
You have the catalyst driver working with Xpress 200M?
I thought that model is no longer supported by Catalyst 9.4 and Catalyst 9.3 doesn't support the new X server?????

If anyone knows how to get Catalyst 9.4 working on an x1250, I would kill to know how they did it!

---

### Post by emarkay on 2009-05-01
> **ap90033 said:**
> Dude I thinks its awesome you are new to linux and after 6 days now you are still getting ignored and brushed off. That is so cool. Well unless i missed a post about how to actually successfully install the ati drivers. I bet you are fired up about waiting for an answer.... Just kidding, kinda... :)

I feel your pain I to have a 4870X2 and silly me i got the latest OS and ATI Driver and no go here... LOL 
sigh

Hey, not all of us search every post - and his post was buried in another thread.  Imagine me - a many year Ubuntu user, now having to deal with a dead system after an updating to 9.04 - and not getting any help/ideas here specifically.  I have filed a Launchpad bug report, and posted to 4 or 5 related forums, and it's a pretty big item - ATI card not working in Intrepid!

Anyway, sounds like a similar issue, and here's the thread that is focusing on this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133931](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133931)

---

### Post by Biohmmwv on 2009-05-02
> **gocek said:**
> Well, although the driver doesn't work well for me, there's one thing I think you might be missing.

Try typing 
```
sudo aticonfig --initial -f
```

just after installing the drivers, before reboot. 

Or if your screen is messed up get into recovery mode and drop to shell as a root and then run
```
sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
```
so you will revert to the open source "radeon" driver

Thank you! I am a new Ubuntu user, and the potential dangers were not listed on the add/remove description.

---

### Post by d_fiant_1 on 2009-05-02
I have tried everything...but there is still an issue. Running the 9.4 drivers and compiz and watching videos in minimized screen works great, fullscreen works alright....but as soon as you MAXIMISE any video window (Movie Player or VLC) the system crashes.

I'm beginning to wonder after a week if it would be better just going back to Ubuntu 8.10 because there are no real improvements to be gained from moving to Ubuntu 9.04 as you would expect

---

### Post by 40-Dan on 2009-05-05
I was excited to see this advice.  Unfortunately, it did not work in my case.  Running "apt-get remove" says that the offending drive is not installed, so there's nothing to do.  I reverted my xorg.conf to each of two backups, but still have the same problem.  In fact, NONE of my xorg.conf files appears to make any mention of fglrx at all.

Does anyone have any other ideas?  I really don't want to reinstall again.

Thanks
Dan

> **MichaelPalin said:**
> I had this problem for ages and I have finally learn how to revert them.

- First of all, reboot the computer in Ubuntu [_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]recovery mode[/COLOR]_]("http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_LKra8AUL9bY/SRlekW3RnSI/AAAAAAAAALg/Ucgm8hQealc/s400/20081111148.jpg"). If you start it normally, the X starts and, as the graphics driver don't work, it crashes.

- When loaded select the option "[_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]root[/COLOR]_]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/images/resetpassword03.png")" or, if you want, root with internet connectivity (although I don't think you'll need it at all).

- Now you are on console mode and you have to remove the privative drivers:
```
apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
```

- Once removed, you have to reset the xorg.conf file, which is a configuration file for the graphical interface. It is in "/etc/X11" and, most likely, you will have various backup files that are automatically generated for various reasons (driver change, for example). You have to change an older one for the new one (the one which says that fglrx is to be used).

- Exit to recovery mode menu with command "exit" and resume normal boot.

If you want me to give you more details, feel free to ask. And, if you don't have an older xorg.conf (you should at least have xorg.conf~) I can write you a generic one.

By the way, I'm sorry to communicate you that any Radeon under HD2xxx wont have support for Catalyst 9.4 or newer and that Ubuntu 9.04, with XServer 1.6 wont work with Catalyst 9.3 or older. But the free drivers should work perfect for an old card like yours.

[EDIT] According to [_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]this tutorial[/COLOR]_]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide"), there is still hope for under R500 Radeon cards. [_[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]Here[/COLOR]_]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide#Post-Installation_Tweaks").

---

### Post by devilishlynice on 2009-05-12
Thanks. This helped me.:popcorn:

---

### Post by zika on 2009-05-12
just my .05$: with 9.04, Asus AH3650(a.k.a.ATI HD3650) 512M, the best results (no Compiz working yet ...) I've got **without** xorg.conf.

---

### Post by newenglandcs on 2009-05-14
I had a similar problem with an ATI HD x1650 (I think that's the model no).  I used Admin->Hardware Drivers to install the ATI driver and after reboot, I got the messed up screen and couldn't login or do anything.  I followed gocek's recommendation, to revert back to the open source video driver and it worked.

On the Grub boot loader screen, choose the option for your kernel in recovery mode.  From the recovery menu, choose the netroot option (terminal with network) and run the command.

sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx

Then, exit or quit and resume normal boot.  Of course, this doesn't fix the problem with ATI's driver, but the open source driver seems to work okay for my card.

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-05-14
> **newenglandcs said:**
> I had a similar problem with an ATI HD x1650 (I think that's the model no). I used Admin->Hardware Drivers to install the ATI driver and after reboot, I got the messed up screen and couldn't login or do anything. I followed gocek's recommendation, to revert back to the open source video driver and it worked.
 
On the Grub boot loader screen, choose the option for your kernel in recovery mode. From the recovery menu, choose the netroot option (terminal with network) and run the command.
 
sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
 
Then, exit or quit and resume normal boot. Of course, this doesn't fix the problem with ATI's driver, but the open source driver seems to work okay for my card.
 
Well guess its back to Windows.

---

### Post by U2XS on 2009-05-25
I had the same issue.  I have an ATI X1250 on my laptop and Catalyst created a new driver set (9.4) which is incompatible with my hardware.  Just go into the command line partition and type

```
sudo apt-cache search fglrx
```

Then the driver should look something like xorg-fglrx-driver.  Then purge the package

```
sudo apt-get purge *package name*
```

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-05-26
Thanks, but how does that install the driver to get 3d working?

---

### Post by Citadel1980 on 2009-05-29
With all these problems with ATI graphics cards, can someone recommend a card that will work with a 2.75 year old Dell Dimension E510 - 3 GB RAM, E177 FP monitor, 250 GB hard drive and an ATI X300 graphics card?

I'm always burning the newest versions of some distro's livecd hoping that this is the one that will work (all bells and whistles) but it always comes down to ATI and its X300.

I don't have much money to drop into this card but I would pay for something if it can take me out of this ATI hell!

---

### Post by zika on 2009-05-29
> **U2XS said:**
> I had the same issue.  I have an ATI X1250 on my laptop and Catalyst created a new driver set (9.4) which is incompatible with my hardware.  Just go into the command line partition and type

```
sudo apt-cache search fglrx
```Then the driver should look something like xorg-fglrx-driver.  Then purge the package

```
sudo apt-get purge *package name*
```
Having xserver-xorg-video-fglrx installed (that is what that command will show) does not mean that it is being used. For example, on many Ubuntu machines You have a bunch of drivers xserver-xorg-video-*  for cards that are not and will never be in that machine. If You want to prevent driver from being used change xorg.conf, clear it from kernel and do dpkg-reconfigure ...

---

