---
title: "Toshiba C50D-B-120 AMD E-Series 15.6 Inch 4GB 500GB Laptop ubuntu compatible?"
date: 2015-04-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by t0p on 2015-04-07
[SIZE=1][COLOR=#040404][FONT=argosbook][SIZE=2]Hi, can anyone tell me if the [/SIZE][/FONT][/COLOR][/SIZE]Toshiba C50D-B-120 AMD E-Series 15.6 Inch 4GB 500GB Laptop or [COLOR=#040404][FONT=argosbook][Toshiba C50-B-13T Celeron 15.6 Inch 4GB 750GB]("http://www.argos.co.uk/static/Product/partNumber/2575344.htm#pdpFullProductInformation") Laptop are Ubuntu-compatible?  I need a new laptop, which I want to dual-boot Windows + Ubuntu, or at least run Ubuntu by itself.  Are either of these machines suitable?  Thanks!  If not, can someone suggest an inexpensive laptop (hopefully with DVD drive) that is Ubuntu-compatible? How about the  [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#040404][FONT=argosbook]Toshiba C50-B-13N Celeron 15.6 Inch 4GB 1TB Laptop, or [/FONT][/COLOR][Toshiba L50t-B-136 15.6 Inch 4GB 750GB Touch ]("http://www.argos.co.uk/static/Product/partNumber/2558017.htm") or [Compaq 15-s108na 15.6 inch 8GB 1TB Laptop]("http://www.argos.co.uk/static/Product/partNumber/3239414.htm") or [Asus X553MA 15.6 Inch Intel Celeron 4GB 1TB]("http://www.argos.co.uk/static/Product/partNumber/3318737.htm") or [COLOR=#040404][FONT=argosbook]  [/FONT][/COLOR][HP 15-r219na15.6 Inch Core i3 4GB 1TB]("http://www.argos.co.uk/static/Product/partNumber/3327625.htm")?  It'd be nice to have a DVD drive but that isn't a deal-breaker.  But running Ubuntu is, after years of Linuxing I dread the thought of bloody Windows, if you get my drift? [COLOR=#040404][FONT=argosbook]Cheers!  PS sorry about the text size, for some reason it won't settle down to be the same...[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2015-04-07
Is it possible for you to put Ubuntu on a flash drive and try booting it in a store? For any unit which is new to the market, I suggest the latest version, currently the 15.04 development version. (I've been running Xubuntu 15.04 for a month now, with no problems.)

I have an HP laptop which is almost five years old, and it has worked well with all the (many) 'buntus I have tried. The biggest problem has been doing the right thing when I plug in earphones.

Generally, the most common problems are Wi-Fi and webcam.

---

### Post by mattharris4 on 2015-04-12
^^ Top, I don't have experience with those particular models but I run Lubuntu 14.04 dual boot with Win 8.1 on my (almost) year old Toshiba Satellite C55 series with an E1-2100 AMD processor (in the same series as you cite in your post).  Everything seems to work fine so far using the Lubuntu installer, the only thing I had an issue with is Alsamixer installed with the sound muted which is a problem with Lubuntu (but not with other Canonical OSes), it is easy to fix.  Operating temps run in the upper 40's C which is fine for most (if not all) computer processors.  I will warn you, though that the AMD E1 series processors are slow and can only handle one or two things running at once, I would recommend finding a computer with a more robust processor if that is what the models you cite have (there is also an E2 series which is supposed to be faster) unless battery life is the most important factor.

One warning with new Toshiba and HP computers, some of them do not have user-replaceable RAM and battery (as in they are permanently wired to the motherboard).  With 4GB RAM the computer will work fine using any Canonical OS now but that may not be the case a few years from now as programs are progressively using more RAM every year (you can expect your computer to last 4-6 years or maybe more so this is a very important consideration, my HP desktop is actually about 7-8 years old and the only thing I have done to it is add RAM and install Edubuntu on it, I still use it almost daily).  I would either verify the RAM in whatever computer you buy is user-replaceable or get one with at least 6GB of RAM.  I would not even consider a laptop without a user-replaceable battery, they need to be replaced at least every other year and if it isn't easily replaceable you will either be purchasing a new computer much sooner than you would otherwise or paying a computer repair shop $200 to replace it for you.  A user-replaceable battery is easy to remove and replace yourself (actually so easy my two year old niece could do it), most cost less than $50, certainly less than $75 on Amazon, eBay, etc.  Also, avoid any computer with Nvidia components.  Nvidia is notorious for not providing the proper drivers and not cooperating with Canonical (and other Linux based OS programmers) to make their components function correctly with Linux -- so much so that Linus Torvalds (the creator of Linux, he is still highly involved in the coding of the programming language) actually flipped off and said "f*** you" to Nvidia during a college class he was lecturing to.  Programmers have found ways around this with some Nvidia parts but why chance it when most other component manufacturers parts are plug and play -- they just work out of the box.

One more thing -- you don't list any of their models but some newer HP laptops are hard-wired in the UEFI to reject any Linux/Windows dual-boot installation (and some of them Linux-only installs as well) and only boot Windows.  There are complicated work-arounds with some models but why risk it, just buy another brand or do your research on the particular model you consider before buying to ensure it isn't affected by this if you go with that brand.  Dell is the most cooperative brand for Linux installs (they even sell a couple of models of computer with Linux pre-installed, unfortunately those are top of the line models costing $1300 plus -- not doable for most people, I myself am not poor by any means and I won't even spend that on a computer), Toshiba is generally good to Linux users as well (from which I can speak to personally).  From limited data Asus computers seem to take Linux easily as well but I am depending mainly on one person's experience (Brad Linder at Liliputing) with multiple laptops of that brand in making that assertion so do more research before buying one if you can.  

Note that once you mess with the OS install on a new computer you have voided the warranty so don't just buy a new computer and immediately install Linux on it without testing it thoroughly for a couple of months first using Windows unless you want to possibly throw away hundreds of dollars.

---

