---
title: "10.04 BCM4318 Wireless Help Needed!"
date: 2010-06-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lilmikeysoz on 2010-06-12
Alright I'm a total noob and I have a problem with internet on 10.04.
I can't get on the internet on my laptop so I figured it was a Wifi drivers problem, and it is. So I checked which Wifi card I have and it's BCM4318. When I hard-wire the laptop to the router, it doesn't find internet either, so I went to System>Administration>Hardware Drivers and found that I need to download and install both the Software modem and the Broadcom B43 Wireless drivers, but I can't install either of them because I can't connect to the internet. I've seen some fixes by using another computer that has internet (I'm writing this on my desktop which works fully) but they're all for 9.10 or earlier. Can somebody help please? Thanks.


This is on a Compaq Presario V2000 by the way.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-06-12
goto synaptic, search "bcm" and install: firmware-b43-installer

---

### Post by lilmikeysoz on 2010-06-13
I did that and there wasn't a firmware-b43-installer

There's a bunch of other ones that based on their descriptions sound like they could work but I dont want to screw something up.

---

### Post by hypatia on 2010-06-15
you want b43-fwcutter, not firmware-b43-installer :)

---

### Post by lilmikeysoz on 2010-06-15
it wont install that because it cant download the file from the internet

---

### Post by biffvj on 2010-06-15
In the catch 22 situation you have to use another computer to access the internet and get the fixes. No other way.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-06-16
Insert your install CD.  Go to Synaptic and under Settings > Repositories check the box to add the CD to the repository.  Reload (curvy arrow icon, ignore unavailable web sources).  Close Synaptic (otherwise Hardware Drivers will not work).

Go to Hardware Drivers and activate Broadcom B43 driver.  You might need to reboot if it says so.

Once you get wireless configured and working, uncheck the CD from the repositories and hit the Reload button to refresh web sources.  Wait until Quick search finishes indexing before closing Synaptic.

---

