---
title: "Disable a Hotkey in 11.10?"
date: 2011-12-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by BuntuSeriously on 2011-12-03
Hello folks.

Well, I was just curious as to how one would go about disabling the "Mute" hotkey under 11.10 on a Lenovo Thinkpad Edge 15.

Been having trouble with the mute function screwing up the soundcard implementation on this system (check [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1890459") for that story); and so I'm hopeful something like this might work as a prospective solution to the immediate problem...

Any thoughts as to how this might be done?

Thanx!

---

### Post by BuntuSeriously on 2011-12-03
Worked out the solution.  Here goes:

At a Terminal prompt, type:

xmodmap -pk

This will generate a KeyCode listing for all of the system's keys.

To disable the "mute" key in this instance, use the following syntax:

xmodmap -e 'keycode 121='

This example will disable KeyCode 121; the "mute" shortcut key on a Lenovo ThinkPad Edge 15 laptop.

xmodmap -e 'keycode 121=XF86AudioLowerVolume'

This example will remp KeyCode 121; the "mute" shortcut key on a Lenovo ThinkPad Edge 15 laptop, to the "volume down" shortcut key which is immediately adjacent thereto.

(The string, "XF86AudioLowerVolume," is provided as a line-item entry along with the keycodes generated by running xmodmap -pk)

To ensure that any such mapping is retained from session to session, follow this procedure:

From the Applications Menu, navigate to the following UI:

Settings > Settings Manager > Session and Startup > Application Autostart

Add a new "application" called "Mute Button Remap" (or whatever may be desired).

Enter the following command line at this interface:

bash -c "xmodmap -e 'keycode 121=XF86AudioLowerVolume'"

Check OK; and restart the system to verify the new mapping.

Done ;)

Have a great day, folks!

---

