---
title: "8.04 Laptop Touchpad doesn't work."
date: 2009-01-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by CommieTechie on 2009-01-03
Well I've had this problem since the moment I installed ubuntu 7.10. It all started back when I had just gotten my brand new laptop (oooooooh shiny) complete with its very own copy of.... vista.

Anyway, it was a Toshiba Satellite A215-S4747. Being toshiba, it came with a little program called "Toshiba Flash Cards" which let you do various things such as lock the computer, change the screen brightness, and turn the touchpad on and off. I would usually turn the touchpad off, since I had a USB mouse, and only turned the touchpad on when I brought the laptop to classes, friends, etc etc when I didn't want to bring the USB mouse with.

The problem started when Toshiba Flash Cards crashed. Every time I would boot windows vista, I would get an error message saying Flash Cards had crashed. I could not start it, I could not get it to run. I tried various suggested fixes, up to and including a BIOS update from toshiba itself. However, I never got it to work again, and as such, never got my laptop touchpad turned on. 

Flash forward to 7.10. I installed ubuntu, everything was grand and happy, except the touchpad did not work. It has not worked on any linux distro I have installed since flash cards failed with the touchpad off. Ubuntu, Kubuntu, I even tried edubuntu because I had a CD and wanted to see if the touchpad would work. It didn't. I do however know it works. I popped in a partition editor live CD of my friends, and much to my surprise, my touchpad worked again! However, it only worked within that program. 

My guess, and that is all it is, is that somewhere there is a BIOS setting for the touchpad that is turned off. I have checked and I do have the drivers installed, and my system recognizes that I do have a touchpad, so that's not the problem. It just doesn't want to turn on. I have tried multiple fixes and none have worked. I've now been about a year without a touchpad on my laptop. Can someone please help me?

---

