---
title: "Hardy NVIDIA Help GeForce 7950GT"
date: 2008-05-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by caveman79 on 2008-05-07
Ok, so I upgraded my Gutsy to Hardy and I have nothing but troubles getting the graphics back to there pre upgraded state.

I have a NVIDIA e GeForce 7950 GT with a Dell 2007WFP monitor.

I have tried several things, but nothing is working after the reboot. Currently I am operating off of the recovery because that is the only way I can increase the resolution to something I can work with. Every fix that I have done just puts me back to the Low Resolution mode again.

I have tried to install the NVIDIA_glx, NVIDIA_glx-new, NVIDIA-settings. I unistalled the drivers, but nothing is helping. I have set the screen to the correct one on the low resolution graphic window that comes at start up. 

Here is a copy of my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection 

I have tried to load new drivers, but didn't know exactly how with the compiler, so better safe than sorry. Any help you could provide me would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-05-07
HI and when you say upgrade to hardy do you mean from the update manager and not clean install? I have seen some users that update via manager and leave the grub intact and they were not booting right kernel.

---

### Post by briandu on 2008-05-07
Hi there,

I think I have solved it - I had same prob - look at this thread for Nvidia

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=782230&page=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=782230&page=4)

---

