---
title: "14.04 slow, freezes with new battery"
date: 2014-05-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-25
I am a newbie ... but learning fairly fast (mostly on my own mistakes and the help of this community).  

I bought a new battery from what I understand to be a reliable source for my dual boot (win7 / trusty) X60 ThinkPad; I'm finding that on battery, the machine will now not boot properly from initial GRUB screen - very slow or stops loading entirely (so I have a black screen with a cursor arrow in the middle); on some boot attempts, I am able to get to the login screen and it takes 3 minutes to load my desktop.  Or ... I get no desktop and need to reboot by pushing power button.  If I plug into AC, it continues to load. But ultimately, the system goes through major freezes I can't resolve without pressing the power button to reboot.  The system is essentially unusable.

What is odd to me is that when I put the old battery back in - I now get the *same* problems.  There had no problems on battery before!

I'd followed the instructions that came with the battery (turned off machine, installed and charged battery); ubuntu was the partition I booted into after doing so. 

Now - I have a bunch of Thinkpads, and bought a bunch of batteries.  I have this new battery in a different X60 as I type this - also dual boot.  Seems to be ok, although it reported a 'system error' to report on boot - didn't catch the type of error.  THIS machine does not have cpufreq installed - the first machine does ... don't know whether this could have any relevance. 

Booting into Win7 partition, these problems do not occur. 

Help?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-26
andrea b; Hello once more ;

Oh boy, things like this can be tough to isolate. power management -> ACPI ?? 
But, let's do some poking about and get some things established so we have a firm foundation from which to work from.

The file system, is it consistent? Verify:
#From liveCD so everything is unmounted,swap off if necessary, change example shown with partition sdb1 to your partition(s)
Find the partition(s) we are working with :
```

sudo fdisk -lu

```
Looking for the partition(s) marked '/' and/or '*" and 'ext4'
Now check the file system on the found partition(s):
#e2fsck is used to check the ext2/ext3/ext4 family of file systems. -p tries fixes where response not required :
```

sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sdb1
#if errors: -y auto answers yes for fixes needing response; for info do in terminal -> man e2fsck <-:
sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sdb1

```
 OK, assuming that the file system checks good, next let's consider the graphic's driver. 
What results when you boot with a low level default driver (llvmpipe ) ?
Mind ya I do not at this time know what chip set you are using for graphics, the below is for ATI and Nvidia - the more common chips sets.
Try this.
Boot the install and at the grub menu with the ubuntu entry  highlighted, press the 'e' key for edit mode;
This brings up the boot parameter screen, arrow down and across to the terms " quite splash" and replace them with "nomodeset" ;
Key combo ctl+x to continue the boot process. Can you now boot to the desk top ? Horrible graphics is acceptable at this point, is performance other wise acceptable ?  Intel chip set will require a different boot parameter.

No ? Then next we are going to boot to a terminal and manually start the GUI and see what the system says about that. Maybe then provide the kernel a required boot parameter ??

Takes longer to type this than to actually do it, but in the process we will
[INDENT][INDENT]find out how come why not
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-26
Well, for starters, with ```
sudo fdisk -lu
```, one thing that strikes me is that my linux partition is listed as 'Linux' rather than 'ext4' (ext4 being how I'd set it up with Gparted).  Is this significant?  I'd expected to have seen ext4.

Running the second command on sda6, said Linux partition, there are 0 bad blocks, with 0.1% of files and 0.2% of directories non-continuous.  nothing seems too wacky.  I'm assuming it would tell me to fix or agree to fix something if there were something to fix?

I'm ATI ... how do I run lvmpipe?  

Ok - edited to nomodeset and ... still having a looooong time getting to bootsplash.  white arrow sittin' there ... nothing seems to be happening ... ok, now it's happening, but in *even* slower motion than before! 

Next step...?

WHEN on AC, it boots much faster, although it does not have my desktop background up during login - it delays with this for some reason (and my other machines do not).  Maybe this here machine just has a real Linux allergy. 

And - I'm also thinking reinstall, and wondering if there's a way of reinstalling that saves my configuration / settings.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-26
andrea b; hey,

My bad, the output from 'fdisk' is indeed "linux" as the system designator.

Well, file system checks good;
Does not appear to be a graphics driver relationship;
You did get good output from 'fdisk' so we are looking at legacy partitioning, so EFI is not a factor....

How quick - in relation to other boxes with 'buntu installed - do you boot to the grub menu ? if slow prior to the grub menu - then we are looking at a problem with grub finding it's files.
If booting to grub is at a normal speed, then maybe we are looking at 2 things -> grub finding the image files, or xorg activating xserver.

Looking at what grub is hunting for, show me the outputs of terminal commands:
```

ls -la /
ls -ls /boot
ls -la /boot/grub

```

Assuming you boot normal speed to grub, let's see what results when we start that GUI manually (the xserver check) - looking for errors generated to the screen.
At the grub menu -> 'e' key edit mode -> replace "quiet splash and all after with the term "text" without the quotes;
key combo ctl+x to continue the boot process to a terminal (TTY1). I would expect to boot to here in a matter of scant seconds.
Login here ( username/pass word).
And now the reason why we came here, what results from terminal code:
```

sudo service lightdm start

```
What have we got for a graphics driver ?
```

sudo lshw -C display

```

Then if problems, we might be looking at reconfigure-ing lightdm or re-installing the desktop or installing a different graphics driver.
------------
As to (RE-)installing the operating system, sure worth a shot, only takes a matter of minutes ( once you have done it a time or so ).. I would not, however, advocate keeping any of the altered configs or settings - after all, these alterations "might" be the root cause of the problem (?).
If we go that route I do suggest to delete the linux partitions from within GParted -> unallocated space, and in the new installer choose the option "something else" to install, and set up the partitions for the new install in the installer-  Being aware of the present sizes of the partitions .
----------------
Are you confused enough or is all this clear as mud ?
I am always willing to make things as clear as possible.


It is a process of fault isolation
[INDENT][INDENT]we be look'n for restoration
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-26
In answer to your speed-to-grub question, that's not so clear - the single boot T60 I'm typing on takes a lot of flashing and coughing to get to grub, (graphics drivers, I guess, etc.) - but it runs ok, I have no complaints.  My other X60 (dual boot) is probably the fastest of the lot.  But it ain't lightnin'.  The problem machine - definitely takes a lot longer (interminably).   This is unscientific - haven't used a stopwatch. 

ok, I'll try the grub diagnostic stuff  tomorrow...however, my big-science question is: how could inserting a new battery (third party, from reputable source ... I think)  have caused this?  A short? A surge of some kind? I do notice a faint  'electrical kiss' sound at one point during boot - I'll check to see where it happens tomorrow.  

But it's very peculiar that the ubuntu partition now responds badly to *any* battery.  The new battery in question seems to work ok in another machine.    

The machine we're trying to fix is the one with all the problems from my dual boot thread; it's fine with Windows ... worst comes to worse, I'll make this my Windows machine (*glurk*!)

I'll report back tomorrow, then - thanks!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-26
andrea b; Shheesshh,

Like you I have not a clue what the difference of using a new power supply could/would make. Might swap that converter out with another system's and see if any problems emerge on the system the converter was moved to ?

Have you checked for bent pins on the connectors ? .. and clean the pins ( somehow ) .. dirty pins can make for bad connections ( used to use up a lot of tech-in-a-spray-can to resolve corroded/dirty pins ).

It is a must to have a stable/correct power supply.

So, we will take this back up in our AM.

[INDENT][INDENT]this might be an exercise
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]in learning[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-27
Ok, here, one after the other, are the outputs of the first 3 commands:

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ls -la /
total 4
drwxr-xr-x   1 root root  240 May 28 20:31 .
drwxr-xr-x   1 root root  240 May 28 20:31 ..
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root 2955 Apr 17 01:30 bin
drwxr-xr-x   1 root root   60 Apr 17 01:30 boot
dr-xr-xr-x   1 root root 2048 Apr 17 01:37 cdrom
drwxr-xr-x  15 root root 4200 May 28 20:32 dev
drwxr-xr-x   1 root root  600 May 28 20:34 etc
drwxr-xr-x   1 root root   60 May 28 20:32 home
lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root   33 Apr 17 01:26 initrd.img -> boot/initrd.img-3.13.0-24-generic
dr-xr-xr-x   1 root root 2048 Apr 17 20:47 isodevice
drwxr-xr-x  26 root root  906 Apr 17 01:28 lib
drwxr-xr-x   1 root root   60 May 28 20:31 media
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root    3 Apr 10 22:11 mnt
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root    3 Apr 17 01:21 opt
dr-xr-xr-x 189 root root    0 May 28 20:31 proc
drwxr-xr-x  20 root root  337 Apr 17 01:30 rofs
drwx------   2 root root   46 Apr 17 01:29 root
drwxr-xr-x  22 root root  720 May 28 20:34 run
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root 4909 Apr 17 01:30 sbin
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root    3 Apr 17 01:21 srv
dr-xr-xr-x  13 root root    0 May 28 20:31 sys
drwxrwxrwt   5 root root  140 May 28 20:37 tmp
drwxr-xr-x   1 root root  100 Apr 17 01:21 usr
drwxr-xr-x   1 root root  140 Apr 17 01:30 var
lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root   30 Apr 17 01:26 vmlinuz -> boot/vmlinuz-3.13.0-24-generic
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 


-----------------
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ls -ls /boot
total 4445
1135 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1162233 Apr 10 20:23 abi-3.13.0-24-generic
 166 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  169631 Apr 10 20:23 config-3.13.0-24-generic
   0 drwxr-xr-x 1 root root      60 May 28 20:32 grub
 173 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  176500 Mar 12 12:31 memtest86+.bin
 174 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  178176 Mar 12 12:31 memtest86+.elf
 175 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  178680 Mar 12 12:31 memtest86+_multiboot.bin
2623 -rw------- 1 root root 2685850 Apr 10 20:23 System.map-3.13.0-24-generic
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 
 


---------------------------------

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ ls -la /boot/grub
total 5
drwxr-xr-x 1 root root   60 May 28 20:32 .
drwxr-xr-x 1 root root   60 Apr 17 01:30 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root  699 Apr 17 01:27 gfxblacklist.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1024 May 28 20:32 grubenv
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$
```

Doing ```
sudo service lightdm start
``` resulted in the same crazy slow non-boot.  Got to login screen and ... nothing (the little white dots gone, but no desktop). 

Spoke to a really nice guy from the place where I got the battery; he noted that third party battery drivers are sometimes problematic for linux, and that battery recognition and charging issues are not uncommon with linux os.   

Thoughts? 

And thanks!!!!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-27
andrea b; Well !

Maybe, just maybe we are making some headway:
My "/boot/grub"
```

sysop@1310mini:~$ ls -la /boot/grub
total 2236
drwxr-xr-x 5 root root    4096 May 25 08:19 .
drwxr-xr-x 4 root root    4096 May  5 18:23 ..
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root    4096 Apr 25 14:11 fonts
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root     699 Apr 25 14:11 gfxblacklist.txt
-r--r--r-- 1 root root   21743 May 25 08:19 grub.cfg
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root    1024 May 27 10:09 grubenv
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root   12288 Apr 25 14:12 i386-pc
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root    4096 Apr 25 14:11 locale
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2226340 Apr 25 14:11 unicode.pf2
sysop@1310mini:~$

```
Yours is missing some files.

Let me boot into my 14.04 install and see what it looks like.

Be back in a bit.

[INDENT][INDENT]maybe yes
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]maybe not so yes
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-27
andrea b; Welp !

Somewhat wiser. and did no take long to look:
My 14.04 ( nice fresh install) whereas I have mounted that partition from 13.10:
```

sysop@1310mini:~$ ls -la /mnt/ubie/boot/grub
total 44
drwxr-xr-x 5 root root  4096 May 25 07:19 .
drwxr-xr-x 3 root root  4096 May 25 07:18 ..
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 May 25 06:56 fonts
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root   699 Apr 16 20:26 gfxblacklist.txt
-r--r--r-- 1 root root  7157 May 25 07:19 grub.cfg
-rw-rw-r-- 1 root root  1024 May 25 07:21 grubenv
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root 12288 May 25 06:56 i386-pc
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 May 25 06:56 locale
sysop@1310mini:~$ sudo umount /mnt/ubie
sysop@1310mini:~$

```

So, back up, regroup; see what your partitioning is like and prepare to (RE-)install grub.

Show me:
```

sudo fdisk-lu
sudo partd -l

```
EDIT: still looking at this: shheeshh, how in the world can you boot at all ?
Look, from ls -la / -> "lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root   33 Apr 17 01:26 initrd.img -> boot/initrd.img-3.13.0-24-generic" and "lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root   30 Apr 17 01:26 vmlinuz -> boot/vmlinuz-3.13.0-24-generic" the '->' represent symbolic links to the files that 'should' be in /boot directory, guess what, in yours they do not exist.
also check this out:
Yours -> 0 drwxr-xr-x 1 root root      60 May 28 20:32 grub
Mine ->  4 drwxr-xr-x 5 root root     4096 May 25 08:19 grub
--------------
Where in the world is initrd.img and vmlinuz-3.13.0-24-generic ?? Again, how in the world can you even boot ?
This may take a lot of pondering as to how to get these required boot files into place and correct.
But first things first.. let's look at the partitioning and go from there while in ponder.

[INDENT][INDENT]maybe moreso yes
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-27
ok, Bashing,

Here are the outputs of the two commands:

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -lu

Disk /dev/sda: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders, total 234441648 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xed1f86f7

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *        2048      206847      102400    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT
/dev/sda2          206848    92981247    46387200    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT
/dev/sda3        92981248   234440703    70729728    5  Extended
/dev/sda5        92983296   164808703    35912704    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT
/dev/sda6       164810752   229525503    32357376   83  Linux
/dev/sda7       229527552   234440703     2456576   82  Linux swap / Solaris


------------------------------------------
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted -l
Model: ATA HITACHI HTS54161 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 120GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos

Number  Start   End     Size    Type      File system     Flags
 1      1049kB  106MB   105MB   primary   ntfs            boot
 2      106MB   47.6GB  47.5GB  primary   ntfs
 3      47.6GB  120GB   72.4GB  extended
 5      47.6GB  84.4GB  36.8GB  logical   ntfs
 6      84.4GB  118GB   33.1GB  logical   ext4
 7      118GB   120GB   2516MB  logical   linux-swap(v1)


Warning: Unable to open /dev/sr0 read-write (Read-only file system).  /dev/sr0
has been opened read-only.
Error: /dev/sr0: unrecognised disk label        
```

I'll go back and read the rest of your learned post ... ok, I don't understand it all that well, but (by way of perspective) let's remember that this is the machine with all those booting problems (with xp) before I repartitioned and everything.   It seems happy as a clam with Win 7 ... maybe it's trying to tell me something.

But in reference to your question, "how can you even boot?!" ... on BATTERY (old or new) I get as far as the login screen, and then, no desktop.

With the battery OUT of the machine (no batt, just AC) I can run the thing fine (that's how I'm typing this here post). 

But even on AC only, on login screen, my desktop  (the old Hardy Heron artwork) isn't loaded (it is on the other machines).  It doesn't come up on THIS machine until I enter my password, and the whole Unity desktop loads. 

Sigh. Thanks so much for your ... positivity!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-27
andrea b; Well,

Recon it could be worse.
Can you boot to a text terminal ? If so ( or we can find a way to make that happen ) I have in mind to try and install the linux-image, purge and (re)install grub.

Else, well it's ubuntu, we can always find another way. Easier and more direct if you are able to boot to a terminal in the actual install.

Now, unless you want the learning experience. It will be much faster to (RE-)install the operating system rather than fixing what is. But I do welcome the experience. And IF you do (RE-)install I would think you would have greater confidence in the integrity of the operating system as a whole. I can not imagine how the system installed in such a condition, and I have to question what else might be messed up.

Hey, it's your call but
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]I do enjoy a challenge
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-28
Ok, just let me know how I'd boot into a text terminal; I can get the thing to run on AC with no battery installed. (or live disc).  Assuming my electricity holds steady, we can do this.  

I'm curious what the steps would be to purge and reinstall grub; in the final analysis, it makes most sense to just reinstall the whole thing.

If I do the latter, can I assume I would remove the root and swap partitions, format that space, and repartition as before?

Yeah, I'm fine with learning - not that I completely get everything I'm doing!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-28
andrea b;

Hey ! I am as game as you are. Let's see what we can do.

What results when you get to the login screen with the key combo ctl+alt+F1 ? does a console activate ?

Else how about this approach to get us a terminal:
Cold boot the machine, as soon as the bios screen clears depress and hold the right shift key -> grub boot menu;
press the 'e' key for edit mode -> boot parameter screen -> arrow down and across to the terms "quiet splash" and replace these terms with the term "text" - with out the quotes -;
key combo ctl+x to continue the boot process.

Hopefully to a text terminal (TTY1). can you login here with user name and password ( no response to the screen when pass word is entered)? If you can do either of these there is hope we can proceed to fix this booting issue.

[INDENT][INDENT]won't hurt a thing to try
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-29
CAN DO!  

Then what?

I'm ... ready.  I know it's late (I have crazy hours).

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-29
andrea b; Hey,

OK, I will try and hang - I got a very early start to the day and I am now about done in. but but ...
Let's see what results:
Terminal command:
```

sudo apt-get install linux-image-3.13.0-24-generic linux-headers-3.13.0-24-generic linux-headers-3.13.0-24

```
Looking for the package manager to get AND install these files and in the proper correct places.
Once done let's see if the package manager could comply:
Show me:
```

ls -la /boot

```

OK ! Hold what we got ... did the package manager also take care of initrd.img ? That will depend on what we try next.

[INDENT][INDENT]let's do what we can
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]to make this happen
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-30
Ok, so ... did all this.. here's the output from ```
ls -la/boot
```

As you can see, I got it via accessing my gui (on AC power)

andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ ls -la /boot
total 28352
drwxr-xr-x  3 root root     4096 May 20 13:16 .
drwxr-xr-x 22 root root     4096 May 19 20:18 ..
-rw-r--r--  1 root root  1162233 May  2 20:40 abi-3.13.0-24-generic
-rw-r--r--  1 root root   169631 May  2 20:40 config-3.13.0-24-generic
drwxr-xr-x  5 root root     4096 May 26 17:38 grub
-rw-r--r--  1 root root 18652912 May 20 13:16 initrd.img-3.13.0-24-generic
-rw-r--r--  1 root root   176500 Mar 12 08:31 memtest86+.bin
-rw-r--r--  1 root root   178176 Mar 12 08:31 memtest86+.elf
-rw-r--r--  1 root root   178680 Mar 12 08:31 memtest86+_multiboot.bin
-rw-------  1 root root  2685850 May  2 20:40 System.map-3.13.0-24-generic
-rw-------  1 root root  5800496 May  2 20:40 vmlinuz-3.13.0-24-generic

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I'm hopeful!  (actually, I nearly typoe'd that as 'I'm *nopeful!*

But, there is PROGRESS!  The post-log-in lag to desktop remains long.  Graphics don't come up with login screen.  BUT!  I can, on battery power (the old battery) open Chrome. Chrome is veeery  slow, and maxes out the CPU while loading.  The Launcher remains slow and unreliable (eg - for 'gedit', I get 'Sorry, there is nothing that matches your search' - I wonder if this is some sort of time-out).  So - is the system really usable?  No.  But improvement?  Yes!

My feeling is - happy to learn on this here machine. Not that I understand everything I'm learning!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-30
andrea b; Well !

It is progress, we now have a kernel image and an initrd files in place... 
The bad news is that there is only one kernel installed and we need to work on it. However, can not work on it while it is in use.. let's see what the new release 14.04 has for additional kernels .
post back:
```

apt-cache show linux-image-*

```
to confirm that " linux-image-3.13.0-27-generic, " - better if we can lay our hands on a older image - is available from your install.

We try and think this through to get another kernel image installed, and not hammer this kernel.


[INDENT][INDENT]think twice, act one time ( and make that 1 time the right act ).
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-30
ok - now - do I best do this via live disc terminal with my system in repose,  in tty, or once I'm able to log in by using AC?  does it make a difference?


ok - 3 minutes later - did this via tty.  Lots of text here ... not sure what to make of it or what interests you.

Last block of text: (and - the package is linux-image-3.4.0-3-goldfish, version 3.4.0-3.14 - if that means anything to you)

"You likely od not want to install this package directly.  Instead, install the linux-goldfish meta-package, which will ensure that upgrades work correctly, and that supporting packages are also installed..." Then they give what I assume is the hash (Description-md5).

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-30
andrea b; Humm,

Let's try this from the actual install, terminal command:
```

apt-cache policy linux-image-generic
apt-cache policy linux-image* | grep Installed

```
too see if we can come up with a kernel that can be installed.

[INDENT][INDENT]see what can be done
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-31
Ok, here you go:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ apt-cache policy linux-image-generic
linux-image-generic:
  Installed: 3.13.0.24.29
  Candidate: 3.13.0.24.29
  Version table:
 *** 3.13.0.24.29 0
        500 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ trusty-updates/main i386 Packages
        500 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ trusty-security/main i386 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
     3.13.0.24.28 0
        500 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ trusty/main i386 Packages



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ apt-cache policy linux-image* | grep Installed
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: 3.13.0-24.47
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: 3.13.0.24.29
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: 3.13.0-24.47
  Installed: (none)
  Installed: (none)
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 

```

... and thanks!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-31
andrea b; UUMMphhh ....

That output does not reflect the availability of an alternate kernel, and what I had in mind was to install a lower version and work on the current kernel.
Lemme see what I can do to lower my state of ignorance and come up with a means to make installing an alternate kernel happen. I really do not want to attempt an upgrade until I feel the system is in a stable condition.

I will find out more ->
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]we will beat on this some more
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-05-31
Hey - and listen ... no sweat.  This is a science project - an experiment, if you will.   I agree with something you said several posts ago - ultimately, we may not end up with something as stable as a reinstall, and a reinstall is probably the ... *wisest* way to go.  After all, the reason I set up a separate data partition was for situations just like this.  

Let me ask you about reinstallation, then: I imagine I would just delete the Linux and Linux swap partitions with Gparted, and reinstall the same size partitions a second time, correct? Nothing else to do to the unallocated space (like format it?)

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-05-31
andrea b; Hey ,,, Like this ...

I look forward to learning experiences. -> This one will be.
I am presently awaiting a particular person to come on line from whom to do a bit of collaboration with.
I do so want to see where this leads to.

Now as to loosing patience, and frustration getting the best of us, and maybe time as a factor -> take the nuclear approach and (RE-)install :
If you are satisfied with the present partitioning, then in GParted simply delete the partition (sda6) that ubuntu is now installed onto, leave the swap partition as is - the installer will make good use of it in the re-install process and reuse it in the new install.
Fire up the installer -> "something else " install option select the unallocated space -> change -> and set it up as '/' formatted as ext4, check box checked to format this partition. Should be all there is too it - best of my hazy mind at the present time.

[INDENT][INDENT]just because
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]inquiring minds want to know
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-01
Thanks, Bashing!  I'll hang in and see what you and your trusted colleague come up with.  (Sometimes Ubuntu feels like a game of Whack-a Mole! But I don't want to give in yet.)

I began my ubuntu-path with Hardy Heron, which gave new life to my 2003 Dell laptop.  Had to give up when I found absolutely no way (via ndswrapper, and all that) to get it to recognize the wireless card.  I used the thing on ethernet, or for offline stuff - didn't want to give up on that, either!  But finally sort of did.  

I'm in.  For now, at least.

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-01
Thanks, Bashing!  I'll hang in and see what you and your trusted colleague come up with.  (Sometimes Ubuntu feels like a game of Whack-a Mole! But I don't want to give in yet.)

I began my ubuntu-path with Hardy Heron, which gave new life to my 2003 Dell laptop.  Had to give up when I found absolutely no way (via ndswrapper, and all that) to get it to recognize the wireless card.  I used the thing on ethernet, or for offline stuff - didn't want to give up on that, either!  But finally sort of did.  (Looking in the archives, seems such problems weren't isolated). 

But I'm stil here.  For now, at least.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-01
andrea b; K

Will do what we can. Never can tell, but what we learn
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]might come in real handy
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-01
Bashing-om has summoned me to this thread...
Let me see: You want to install some other kernel or what?
What kernel You would like to try? Newest 3.15 (rc7) or some older?
I did not have enough time to read through the whole thread carefully enough so excuse my bluntness (both way You could understand this... ;))
I'll read Your answers just after I get some dinner (sugar is running low at this time of day... looks like I need some battery recharge... ;))
Update&#8321;: It looks to me as if You wanted to install some other kernel, beside(s) the current one? If that is the case You might use [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)
Pick the one You want, choose proper architecture and DL three .deb(s):
linux-headers-...ARCHITECTURE.deb
linux-headers-...all.deb
linux-image-...ARCHITECTURE.deb
(I would download them in /tmp, Your decision might be different...)
Go to that directory and try```
sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb
```
That would be all...
You can (it that goes well) choose &#8222;new&#8220; kernel in next boot from the Grub menu and...
Disclaimer: Be fully aware that I did not grasp all the facts and issues in this thread yet so I'm just responding to the immediate question asked by Bashing-om...
It's kind of late here so I could read answers in the morning if I get asleep faster than You type...

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-01
Ok Bashing ... what do you say...? And - if this is too unwieldy and wobbly for you in terms of your own time - no worries, I'll just reinstall Trusty. 
I am getting the sense, though, that dual boot is inherently wobbly.  I may play with VM or pendrive linux (and that way, I could see different distros ... looks like I have a hobby that can take me away from alllll the things I really am supposed to do!)

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-01
andrea b; Hey,

Dual booting ain't no biggy... It does work; just running an operating system with the hardware it has to work on/with.
Dual booting does work with no problem for thousands and thousands of people ( hey I am quadruple booting here !).

Me; I would prefer to continue with this and see what we can do to get a stable system. When all else fails there is always that nuclear approach.

Lemme have a bit to digest what zika is telling us -- hey he does KNOW .. and we take off again in this pursuit of perfection.

[INDENT][INDENT]if at first you do not succeed 
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]try try again ( sky diving is excepted)[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-01
andrea b; OK,

Thanks to zika I have a plan !
1st is the hardware we are dealing with here;
Post back the outputs of terminal commands:
```

uname -a
dpkg --print-architecture
dpkg --get-selections|grep libgl1-mesa

```
To see what we are going to download to install.

[INDENT][INDENT]ain't no step for a stepper
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-01
here are the outputs ... 

[CODE][/andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ uname -a
Linux andrea-ThinkPad-X60 3.13.0-24-generic #47-Ubuntu SMP Fri May 2 23:31:42 UTC 2014 i686 i686 i686 GNU/Linux

andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ dpkg --print-architecture
i386

andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ dpkg --get-selections|grep libgl1-mesa
libgl1-mesa-dri:i386				install
libgl1-mesa-glx:i386				install
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 
CODE]

Note that in terminal output, "libgl1-mesa" was highlit in red.  

onward!

(Tried to Delete this post - couldn't figure out how! - see post below with proper code box.)

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-01
here are the outputs ... 

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ uname -a
Linux andrea-ThinkPad-X60 3.13.0-24-generic #47-Ubuntu SMP Fri May 2 23:31:42 UTC 2014 i686 i686 i686 GNU/Linux

andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ dpkg --print-architecture
i386

andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ dpkg --get-selections|grep libgl1-mesa
libgl1-mesa-dri:i386				install
libgl1-mesa-glx:i386				install
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 
```


Note that in terminal output, "libgl1-mesa" was highlit in red.  

onward!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-02
andrea b; OK !

Here goes -> 
Fire up the install of ubuntu to the desk top and activate your web browser - sure hope it is functional ! -
Go to this site ( that zika so graciously provided) :
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)
Down at the bottom of the list is;
v3.12.20-trusty/	16-May-2014 14:19	 -	 
click on this line -> it goes to the next  link ->
Click on these three links to download the files onto your system, default location being ~/Downloads
linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb
linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb
linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb

Done with the web browser.

Verify these files exist on your system:
```

ls -la Downloads

```

Now let's set up a work environment (/tmp in ram will be much faster)
```

sudo mkdir /tmp/work
cp inux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work
cp linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb /tmp/work
cp linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work

```


Verify these files exist where we want them:
```

ls -la /tmp/work

```
change the working directory to /tmp/work:
```

cd /tmp/work

```

Verify we are there:
```

ls -la

```
and you see those three working files in place, no ?

Now the magic:
```

sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb

```
to install kernel version 3.12.20-03

Go back home;
```

cd

```

make sure grub is updated to include this new kernel
```

sudo update-grub

```
and let's see what happened:

reboot to the grub boot menu, do you see a new entry for the 3.12 kernel .. select it and lets see what the new kernel functions like .

Please tell me that all is functional, and your system is operational in all respects.

IF SO .. and only if so we will repair the 3.13 kernel and THEN update/upgrade the system and and and .. maybe all is now ship shape.


And hey
[INDENT][INDENT]it could happen
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-02
Did You try LiveCD/USB?
All repairs could be done (also) via chroot from LIve...?
Did You try kernel-boot switches (like noacpi or other)..?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-02
@ zika, Again thanks for the assist.

Yeah, I too had considered .. and still considering various boot options. As we now have a somewhat usable install, I thought to go this route prior to repairing in the chroot environment.

 My thinking is to get the system updated/upgraded and see if it is stable. I think there is a good chance all will be stable, and if required use some of the 'acpi' boot options.

This is a process of learning for  me also; poke at it and see what happens. I do have a bit of knowledge and skills, but, one can never know enough. Affirmation of my skill sets is nice to have.

It is ubuntu
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]many paths lead to an end
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-02
Bashing,

did all through the mkdir... and am now up to the 'cp's. 

Seems you missed an 'l' on linux ('...inux') for the cp inux headers ... i386.deb ... I put the 'l' back in, but I'm getting 'no such file or directory', even though the download presented in ls -la. 

I'll check the repository name again for us ... think I have the basic idea...

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-02
andrea b; Yeah !

I proof read three times - tired minds have tired results. Fixed to 'linux'.

I await the outcome ... yeah I could have made other errors, it is proper to check/verify before proceeding.
I expect however to workie great and last long time.

[INDENT][INDENT]what an adventure 
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-02
on my last try, I got:

```
         andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ cp linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work
cp: cannot stat &#8216;linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb&#8217;: No such file or directory
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$     
```

this time I used the link from the repository, deleting the 'link' stuff.  But this keeps happening. 

When I corrected the typo on the one you gave me, I got:

```
  andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ cp linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work
cp: cannot stat &#8216;linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb&#8217;: No such file or directory
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 
  
```

Am I right that the downloads are there?  The downloads in question, as well as my truecrypt download, were in red.  Here is:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ ls -la Downloads
total 68612
drwxr-xr-x  2 andrea andrea     4096 Jun  3 14:42 .
drwxr-xr-x 23 andrea andrea     4096 Jun  3 14:29 ..
-rw-r--r--  1 andrea andrea     7491 May 20 22:28 9 ways to speed up ubuntu 13.10
-rw-r--r--  1 andrea andrea     3204 May 20 22:27 HPLIP - hp printer drivers
-rw-rw-r--  1 andrea andrea 12702940 Jun  3 14:36 linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb
-rw-rw-r--  1 andrea andrea  1064444 Jun  3 14:33 linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb
-rw-rw-r--  1 andrea andrea 51126282 Jun  3 14:42 linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb
-rw-r--r--  1 andrea andrea  2644819 May 22 00:04 truecrypt-7.1a-linux-x86.tar.gz
-rwxr-xr-x  1 andrea andrea  2671271 Feb  7  2012 truecrypt-7.1a-setup-x86
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 

```

I know this is cheating, but can I copy the files to tmp/work via GUI....?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-02
andrea b; OH Sheeshh .. I see, said the blind man !

The files are not in the present working path .. 
try as :
```

cp ~/Downloads/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work
cp ~/Downloads/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb /tmp/work
cp ~/Downloads/linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work

```

So so easy not to remember and check each and every step of the way, sorry about that ! and the loss of time and the addition of the aggravation factor.

In spite of my blindness, please
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]carry on
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-02
NO WORRIES, Bashing!  Good grief!  

But I got this:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ cp ~/Downloads/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work
cp: cannot create regular file ‘/tmp/work/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb’: Permission denied
  
```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-02
andrea b; Well.

I guess 'root' owns the directory "/tmp/work" and the system will not allow you as a normal user to write to it...
Let's look:
```

ls -la /tmp

```
and I expect the "work" permissions/owner/user authorizations to be similar:
```

drwxrwxrwt  2 root  root    60 Jun  2 11:25

```

OK, then we elevate the privileges to access that directory:
As in:
```

sudo cp ~/Downloads/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work
sudo cp ~/Downloads/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb /tmp/work
sudo cp ~/Downloads/linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work

``` with "sudo" (Super User DO) we can now do.

Now can we carry on ?

Trails troubles and tribulations
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]but we are getting there[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-03
From CLI (Terminal) or in tty:```
cd /tmp
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb
```
Reboot... Choose 3.12.20 from grub menu...
(/tmp should not be with such priviledges, that is another issue but that could be a source of all Your problems... ;))
(```
:~$ ll /
...
drwxrwxrwt  13 root root  4096 Jun  3 15:18 tmp/
...
```)

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-03
Done with this now, Bashing! Ok - now, do I proceed with the next steps from your post, or go to Zika's #42?

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-03
> **andrea b said:**
> Done with this now, Bashing! Ok - now, do I proceed with the next steps from your post, or go to Zika's #42?If You've succeded with that You can simply disregard (almost all of) my post #42...

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-03
@ zika, yeah, thanks, If I had exercised prior prudent planning this situation would not have arisen.

Creating '/tmp/work' with "sudo" was not necessary .

@ Andrea, I have lost track of where we are at presently.

Are the 3 *.deb files available now in '/tmp/work' ?
And
have you ran from the directory '/tmp/work' the terminal command:
```

sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb

```
And it runs clean ( no errors generated) ?

Just got back from having a yukky colonoscopy, my thinking processes are even more impaired.

When you verify you have attained this point successfully, will focus (later) and 

[INDENT][INDENT]proceed on to that next step
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-03
First of all - no worries, Bashing, and thank you, Zika (!)  Ran the three 'cp's as sudo (no visible output, each command just returned me to my prompt - assume that's ok?), and when I tried dpkg, I got this:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb
dpkg: error processing archive linux*.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 linux*.deb
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 

```

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-03
> **zika said:**
> If You've succeded with that You can simply disregard (almost all of) my post #42...

Thanks for your help, @Zika ... hmmm I disregarded all, instead of almost all...(I am a total newbie). 

This is my most recent output:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ sudo cp ~/Downloads/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work
[sudo] password for andrea: 
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ sudo cp ~/Downloads/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb /tmp/work
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ sudo cp ~/Downloads/linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb /tmp/work
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb
dpkg: error processing archive linux*.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 linux*.deb

```


- _Update_ - since I can't seem to delete posts ... figured out I just *hadn't changed directory to tmp* ... 

However, now my update manager is working, so I have to wait to dpkg.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-03
andrea b; OK, I am back...

Let's see where you are in the file system path:
do:
```

cd /tmp/work
ls -la

```

[INDENT][INDENT]and[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-03
No such file or directory!!!

ok - here's what happened; looked in tmp, too...

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ cd /tmp/work
bash: cd: /tmp/work: Not a directory
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ cd /tmp
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:/tmp$ ls -la
total 49964
drwxrwxrwt  6 root   root       4096 Jun  4 20:43 .
drwxr-xr-x 22 root   root       4096 Jun  4 20:15 ..
drwx------  2 andrea andrea     4096 Jun  4 20:36 .com.google.Chrome.Gq6bic
drwxrwxrwt  2 root   root       4096 Jun  4 20:35 .ICE-unix
drwx------  2 andrea andrea     4096 Jun  4 20:35 ssh-xYX6bJ5J9jQT
-rw-rw-r--  1 andrea andrea        0 Jun  4 20:35 unity_support_test.0
-rw-r--r--  1 root   root   51126282 Jun  4 20:42 work
-r--r--r--  1 root   root         11 Jun  4 20:35 .X0-lock
drwxrwxrwt  2 root   root       4096 Jun  4 20:35 .X11-unix
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:/tmp$ 
```

?

Methought 'twas there before a bunch of updates just now ... hmmm.  .deb files, headers ...we did mkdir to create 'work' ... not?!  

I'm all confubbled!

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-03
@zika - decided to implement your post #42.

```
u.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb
``` went ok, but on continuing I got the following output:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:/tmp$ u.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb
bash: u.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb: No such file or directory
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:/tmp$ u.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb
bash: u.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb: No such file or directory
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:/tmp$ 
```

(I am a complete newbie...did something wrong?)

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-03
andrea b;

I would expect '/tmp/work' not to persist a reboot.
Let's do the simpler thing: remove the privileged directory, create one for you the normal user and copy those files in place; and install:
```

sudo rmdir -R /tmp/work
mkdir /tmp/work
cd /tmp/work ##such that we are in that Present Working Directory
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb

ls-la ## too see that our files are inplace

sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb ##do the magic

```

[INDENT][INDENT]should workie great and last 
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]long time
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-04
got this  ... it seems that tmp/work doesn't exist (though I believe we'd created it)

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ sudo rmdir -R /tmp/work
[sudo] password for andrea: 
rmdir: invalid option -- 'R'
Try 'rmdir --help' for more information.
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ sudo rmdir -R /tmp/work
rmdir: invalid option -- 'R'
Try 'rmdir --help' for more information.
```

yoicks!

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-04
> **andrea b said:**
> got this  ... it seems that tmp/work doesn't exist (though I believe we'd created it)

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ sudo rmdir -R /tmp/work
[sudo] password for andrea: 
rmdir: invalid option -- 'R'
Try 'rmdir --help' for more information.
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ sudo rmdir -R /tmp/work
rmdir: invalid option -- 'R'
Try 'rmdir --help' for more information.
```

yoicks!```
rmdir - remove empty directories
```You do not get answer that folder /tmp/work does not exist but that You've tried to use unexistent option (-R) with command **rmdir**...
For moving folder You could try```
rm -rf /tmp/work
```[COLOR=#ff0000](Disclaimer: be carefull with command I've gave You as it is one way street...)
[/COLOR]but I would not want to get between two of You trying to make this work... Too many cooks[COLOR=#000000] spoil the broth...[/COLOR]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-04
Thanks, @Zika!  However, what I got is 'cannot remove .... operation not permitted'.

And as a newbie, I have little to contribute here ...

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-04
> **andrea b said:**
> Thanks, @Zika!  However, what I got is ```
cannot remove .... operation not permitted
```.
And as a newbie, I have little to contribute here ...As I wrote before: [COLOR=#000000]Too many cooks[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][COLOR=#000000] spoil the broth... Operation is not permited since You have /tmp owned (only) by root... So, simply put, try removing what You want to remove with **sudo** gaining root priviledges...
[/COLOR][/COLOR]So, since I'm not quite sure why do You even want to remove that folder I'll let @Bashing-om continue helping You... I did write how to install kernel You wanted and expressed my feeling about what should be done...

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-04
andrea b; Yuk.

@ zika, thanks for these helps !

Andrea;
We are not looking over your shoulder at your terminal, so all we can do is surmise what is going on - and what you relate to us THAT is in fact going on.

Let's see what we can do to clear things up ..
OK,, the directory '/tmp' exist in ram .. and '/tmp' is just that temporary. When one reboots anything that is in ram must be re-created, as ram is cleared when the system reboots.
Let's say that the normal user directory was created (mkdir /tmp/work) and you had populated that directory with some arbitrary files. And, all is looking fine good and dandy; upon a reboot they will no longer exist as the directory exist in ram, and anything in ram will not persist a re-boot.

So what we are doing here must be done in one session.
If you have re-booted the system -- then the old '/tmp/work' should no longer exist ( I do so expect !).

Let's look:
Reboot the system:
and terminal command:
```

ls -la /tmp

```
Once the foundation is established, I will once  more pass the commands to get, and install the -12 kernel.

There are a number of paths to accomplish this, but let us not compound the issue by proposing any of the alternatives; and stick with what has been proposed.

Looking at a clean slate, and we start once more from the creation of our work space.

[INDENT][INDENT]ain't nothing but a thing
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-04
> **Bashing-om said:**
> OK,, the directory '/tmp' exist in ram .. and '/tmp' is just that temporary. When one reboots anything that is in ram must be re-created, as ram is cleared when the system reboots.
Let's say that the normal user directory was created (mkdir /tmp/work) and you had populated that directory with some arbitrary files. And, all is looking fine good and dandy; upon a reboot they will no longer exist as the directory exist in ram, and anything in ram will not persist a re-boot./tmp is not, by default, in RAM, that depends on settings, among other, mainly in /etc/fstab and there are settings to define if /tmp should be and how often cleared on boot, default is that it is cleared every time You **boot**, not resume from suspend...

Update&#8321;: Did You check if You are dealing with this bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/1283938](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/1283938) (mind #80)...? In that case kernel upgrade might not be the cure... You, even, might help them solve that bug because You have a case where battery change invoked similar effect... ;)

My advice would be to try to boot computer with LiveCD/USB and see if that goes well... That sort-of-experiment might give valuable insight into what is going on... Presence of Windows (7 as I recall, not wanting to provoke any kind of discussion about Windows/Microsoft) on that computer just makes thing about suspend a bit more complicated...

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-04
> Update&#8321;: Did You check if You are dealing with this bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...i/+bug/1283938](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...i/+bug/1283938) (mind #80)...? In that case kernel upgrade might not be the cure... You, even, might help them solve that bug because You have a case where battery change invoked similar effect... 

This is possible - the symptoms seem similar; what I got in the beginning was a black screen - but with cursor arrow.  Just extremely slow.  I have gotten apport error messages (on this and other machines in which I've changed battery)  about suspend/resume problem. This is the only machine, though that is unusable on battery power.  Applications don't open, or don't stay open once opened. 

> 
My advice would be to try to boot computer with LiveCD/USB and see if that goes well... That sort-of-experiment might give valuable insight into what is going on... 

The machine works ok on battery on Live CD, as far as I can see - so: *before I do anything else*... what does this tell us?

I completely appreciate the 'too many cooks' issue - and also appreciate that a complete 'newbie's tutorial' is beyond the scope of the forum!  (Thanks for the explanation of the tmp file.)

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-04
> Once the foundation is established, I will once more pass the commands to get, and install the -12 kernel.


ok, Bashing - thanks for being there.  Here's my output, before we go any further:
```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ ls -la /tmp
total 28
drwxrwxrwt  6 root   root   4096 Jun  5 22:03 .
drwxr-xr-x 22 root   root   4096 Jun  4 20:15 ..
drwx------  2 andrea andrea 4096 Jun  5 22:03 .com.google.Chrome.V80nHS
drwxrwxrwt  2 root   root   4096 Jun  5 22:02 .ICE-unix
drwx------  2 andrea andrea 4096 Jun  5 22:02 ssh-e2aFdxzKl5Z8
-rw-rw-r--  1 andrea andrea    0 Jun  5 22:02 unity_support_test.0
-r--r--r--  1 root   root     11 Jun  5 22:02 .X0-lock
drwxrwxrwt  2 root   root   4096 Jun  5 22:02 .X11-unix

```

I know now not to reboot, lest I lose tmp!

Should I now go to your commands re. post #51?  (or Zika's #42) Create a work file in tmp  (or not, as the case may be - just using tmp), and go from there?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-04
andrea b; Hey, 

Glad you are hanging in there.

OK all clean. Yeah, I still going to go with the faster '/tmp/work' directory.
Try and keep it simple, and not forget a step.
make our work space:
```

mkdir /tmp/work

```
Let's see that it is there and what it is:
```

ls -la /tmp
ls -ld /tmp/work

```
looks similar, my output:
```

sysop@1310mini:~$ ls -ld /tmp/work
drwxrwxr-x 2 sysop sysop 40 Jun  4 21:18 /tmp/work

```
Now, get into our "working Directory":
```

cd /tmp/work

```

OK the destination directory exist, and we are in it - now to 'get' our files. As we know the location and file path of the files we want, let's 'wget' them as much faster and less hassle than using the browser. 'wget' with no destination given as to where to write the files to will default to downloading them to the Present Working Directory, in our case '/tmp/work'; so ; copy and paste into terminal:
```

wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-headers-3.12.20-031220_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_all.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.12.20-trusty/linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic_3.12.20-031220.201405160935_i386.deb

```
To see and verify that our files are inplace - we do from our PWD
```

ls -la

```

All set to go, do the magic to install:
```

sudo dpkg -i linux*.deb

```

OK, done with these steps, Change Directory (cd) back to home -> short cut means to return to home directory from anywhere is:
```

cd

```

OK, assuming the install of the -12 kernel went well, double check that grub is aware of that new kernel:
```

sudo update-grub

```
No errors reported by grub, looking good !
Let's see where we stand;

reboot:
```

sudo shutdown -r now

```
or likewise from the gui gear icon to "restart" ; either way is good.

OK, back up to the grub menu, you should now see that -12 kernel in the boot menu. DO you or not ?

Rebuilding the -13 kernel is the next step if we boot the -12 kernel.

[INDENT][INDENT]little bit at the time, getting there
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-04
Yes, Bashin' - the 12 is in the grub menu (under Advanced options - didn't see it until I looked there) - both 13 *and* 12 are there. 

Progress ...!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-05
andrea b; Outstanding !

Progress indeed !

I am past cohesive think-a-bility for this session. 
Use the system with the -12 kernel and let's see how it preforms.
On my morrow I will relate the procedure to (re-)create the -13 kernel, update/upgrade the system, update grub, and then get ya updated to the current -27 kernel.

[INDENT][INDENT]one needs to know their limits
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-05
Ok! So - on battery power, 12 boots with weird graphics (or very high resolution) and issues text that it is setting battery thresholds (relevant to us or no).  Very slow / unusable ... and may be exhibiting bug #1283938 with black screen on resuming from suspend.  
 
On AC, works ok - I'm writing you this from it. Took two tries to start Chrome, but here I am.  Good night!  And thanks for all your help!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-05
andrea b; Good day ;

Here we go again.

"On AC, works ok - I'm writing you this from it." -> setting up to see what we can do:

How does Windows perform ? -- as eventually we will consider what ACPI controls are in effect, and we do not want to interfere with Windows if we play with bios or the hardware; keeping in mind that the bug may indeed be a factor.

IF Windows does perform reasonably, let's at this time proceed to (re-)create the -13 kernel - from the -12 kernel. Let's see what is now:
Boot up the new -12 kernel and ;
Post back to us the outputs of terminal Command:
```

dpkg -l | grep linux-image

```

And I will relate the next step in out little escapade .

[INDENT][INDENT]Ain't nothing but a thing
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-05
Here you go,

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ dpkg -l | grep linux-image
ii  linux-image-3.12.20-031220-generic                    3.12.20-031220.201405160935                         i386         Linux kernel image for version 3.12.20 on 32 bit x86 SMP
ii  linux-image-3.13.0-24-generic                         3.13.0-24.47                                        i386         Linux kernel image for version 3.13.0 on 32 bit x86 SMP
ii  linux-image-3.13.0-27-generic                         3.13.0-27.50                                        i386         Linux kernel image for version 3.13.0 on 32 bit x86 SMP
ii  linux-image-extra-3.13.0-24-generic                   3.13.0-24.47                                        i386         Linux kernel extra modules for version 3.13.0 on 32 bit x86 SMP
ii  linux-image-extra-3.13.0-27-generic                   3.13.0-27.50                                        i386         Linux kernel extra modules for version 3.13.0 on 32 bit x86 SMP
ii  linux-image-generic                                   3.13.0.27.33                                        i386         Generic Linux kernel image
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 


```

and ... I really don't want to mess with BIOS ... Windows 7 seems fine (for Windows); haven't yet tested hibernation.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-06
andrea bl Hey,

bios/Windows my thought too, leave it alone if Windows is happy.
We will come back to ACPI parameters.
For now let's see what results with a newly (re-)created .13 kernel, - looks like at some point since last looked you have picked up the -27 kernel (humm) -  then see what we need to adjust.
```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo update-initramfs -u -k 3.13.0-24-generic

```

Reboot into the 3.13.0-24 see how it performs,
And then the 3.13.0-27 kernel -> I assume you see all 3 kernels in the grub boot menu (??).

If that all runs clean, I would say we have a stable install, - a solid foundation - and we be on our way to looking at power management.

[INDENT][INDENT]MY MY have we come a long way
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-06
ok did it from within 3.13.0-24 - I imagine that was the idea?  And am about to reboot. 

(I wasn't supposed to do this from within .12, right?...right.  Right? Right. Right?  Are we rebuilding 13 from within 12? Now I'm confused!)

Updatate: .13-24 works fine on AC...now let's see if it works on battery...holy smokes!  It kind of does!  Let's see if I can post this on battery power...

Update #2: ok, tried to reboot on battery, just to see ... still an issue.  However, once booted, it seems to be a little more responsive on battery power. (bleah...just a little...)

Ok, I await instructions - and thanks!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-07
andrea b; Hey,
I am back - bad weather, storm damage to clean up and some normal chores.

Now let's see what we can do; There are a number of power management options we can "try" and see. 
Let's see what the kernel will do with the options that bios hands off to it.

Boot the 3.13.0-27 (latest and greatest) - on battery as the power source - to the grub boot menu - 'e' key for edit -> boot options screen; arrow down and across to quiet splash and replace "quiet splash" with the term "acpi_osi=Linux" - without the quotes - where ACPI is (Advanced Configuration and Power Interface).
Key combo ctl+x to continue the boot process.
With the terms "quiet splash" removed, will see the boot messages - they go super fast, but may catch something interesting.

What results for operational functionality now with that boot parameter ? Maybe now is a good time to start looking at the log files, see what the system is reporting.
Might look through the files /var/log/syslog and /var/log/dmesg(the standard desktop install used to have a handy dandy "file viewer" tool and may still have it in the default install).

[INDENT][INDENT]feet planted and we 
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]coming out swinging
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-07
ok - hope you're ok after your brace of storms!

Ran the boot edit - *I* couldn't catch anything ... got internal error message after the interminable wait for desktop (crash of /usr/sbin/unity-greeter); I tried to take pix of the report on my phone (afraid print screen would take too long on battery).  

I see several syslogs and dmesgs (I don't seem to have file viewer); what to look for?

One thing I can say ... I'm ready to just delete this here partition and reinstall...(huff - puff!) But I'm holdin' off!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-07
andrea b;
Hey;

Yeah, considering storms, doing well. Roof on utility shed blown off, and ridge cap on the "shop" building, a few limbs. Nothing time and effort will not mend.

At my next re-boot I will boot up 14.04 standard and see what there is for a log viewer ..."(crash of /usr/sbin/unity-greeter)" says we want to look at a couple other logs also.

One can take a quick gander at the log - for instance dmesg :
```

dmesg | grep -i acpi
dmesg | grep -i error
dmesg | grep -i warn

``` and see if the system is in a real foul mood.

As I understand it, presently all is good on AC power, no ? Such that we are looking at ACPI issues as related to battery power ?
If that is the case, maybe (re-)install might address that issue, but don't hold your breath .. But it only takes a few minutes to find out.

As ."acpi_osi=Linux" has not proved productive try instead "acpi_osi=" as it maybe a display issue.

I am glad to say I have limited experience with your issues. The 2 lap tops we have here (Del) have had absolutely no problems. That is not to say I will not hang with you until such time that all of us find a solution and get you running 'buntu.

[INDENT][INDENT]not much
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]but we still look'n
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-08
@Bashing - Glad to hear you're ok!

So ```
acpi_osi=
``` (run on battery power) gave nothing that jumped out at me.

Ran your greps (on AC - I'm assuming this is ok):

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ dmesg | grep -i acpi
[    0.000000] BIOS-e820: [mem 0x000000007f6d0000-0x000000007f6defff] ACPI data
[    0.000000] BIOS-e820: [mem 0x000000007f6df000-0x000000007f6fffff] ACPI NVS
[    0.000000] ACPI: RSDP 000f67c0 000024 (v02 LENOVO)
[    0.000000] ACPI: XSDT 7f6d179e 00008C (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180  LTP 00000000)
[    0.000000] ACPI: FACP 7f6d1900 0000F4 (v03 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 LNVO 00000001)
[    0.000000] ACPI BIOS Warning (bug): 32/64X length mismatch in FADT/Gpe1Block: 0/32 (20131115/tbfadt-572)
[    0.000000] ACPI BIOS Warning (bug): Optional FADT field Gpe1Block has zero address or length: 0x000000000000102C/0x0 (20131115/tbfadt-603)
[    0.000000] ACPI: DSDT 7f6d1c90 00CFB9 (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 MSFT 0100000E)
[    0.000000] ACPI: FACS 7f6f4000 000040
[    0.000000] ACPI: SSDT 7f6d1ab4 0001DC (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 MSFT 0100000E)
[    0.000000] ACPI: ECDT 7f6dec49 000052 (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 LNVO 00000001)
[    0.000000] ACPI: TCPA 7f6dec9b 000032 (v02 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 LNVO 00000001)
[    0.000000] ACPI: APIC 7f6deccd 000068 (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 LNVO 00000001)
[    0.000000] ACPI: MCFG 7f6ded35 00003C (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 LNVO 00000001)
[    0.000000] ACPI: HPET 7f6ded71 000038 (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 LNVO 00000001)
[    0.000000] ACPI: SLIC 7f6dee62 000176 (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180  LTP 00000000)
[    0.000000] ACPI: BOOT 7f6defd8 000028 (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180  LTP 00000001)
[    0.000000] ACPI: SSDT 7f6f2645 00025F (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 INTL 20050513)
[    0.000000] ACPI: SSDT 7f6f28a4 0000A6 (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 INTL 20050513)
[    0.000000] ACPI: SSDT 7f6f294a 0004F7 (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 INTL 20050513)
[    0.000000] ACPI: SSDT 7f6f2e41 0001D8 (v01 LENOVO TP-7B    00002180 INTL 20050513)
[    0.000000] ACPI: Local APIC address 0xfee00000
[    0.000000] ACPI: PM-Timer IO Port: 0x1008
[    0.000000] ACPI: Local APIC address 0xfee00000
[    0.000000] ACPI: LAPIC (acpi_id[0x00] lapic_id[0x00] enabled)
[    0.000000] ACPI: LAPIC (acpi_id[0x01] lapic_id[0x01] enabled)
[    0.000000] ACPI: LAPIC_NMI (acpi_id[0x00] high edge lint[0x1])
[    0.000000] ACPI: LAPIC_NMI (acpi_id[0x01] high edge lint[0x1])
[    0.000000] ACPI: IOAPIC (id[0x01] address[0xfec00000] gsi_base[0])
[    0.000000] ACPI: INT_SRC_OVR (bus 0 bus_irq 0 global_irq 2 dfl dfl)
[    0.000000] ACPI: INT_SRC_OVR (bus 0 bus_irq 9 global_irq 9 high level)
[    0.000000] ACPI: IRQ0 used by override.
[    0.000000] ACPI: IRQ2 used by override.
[    0.000000] ACPI: IRQ9 used by override.
[    0.000000] Using ACPI (MADT) for SMP configuration information
[    0.000000] ACPI: HPET id: 0x8086a201 base: 0xfed00000
[    0.000000] Kernel command line: BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-3.13.0-27-generic root=UUID=19c794e8-18a9-4c05-ad29-86a4116792b4 ro acpi_osi= vt.handoff=7
[    0.000000] ACPI: _OSI method disabled
[    0.013972] ACPI: Core revision 20131115
[    0.033279] ACPI: All ACPI Tables successfully acquired
[    0.118609] PM: Registering ACPI NVS region [mem 0x7f6df000-0x7f6fffff] (135168 bytes)
[    0.123169] ACPI FADT declares the system doesn't support PCIe ASPM, so disable it
[    0.123181] ACPI: bus type PCI registered
[    0.123189] acpiphp: ACPI Hot Plug PCI Controller Driver version: 0.5
[    0.126110] ACPI: Added _OSI(Module Device)
[    0.126110] ACPI: Added _OSI(Processor Device)
[    0.126110] ACPI: Added _OSI(3.0 _SCP Extensions)
[    0.126110] ACPI: Added _OSI(Processor Aggregator Device)
[    0.131620] ACPI : EC: EC description table is found, configuring boot EC
[    0.152522] ACPI: SSDT 7f6f1d26 000240 (v01  PmRef  Cpu0Ist 00000100 INTL 20050513)
[    0.153760] ACPI: Dynamic OEM Table Load:
[    0.153772] ACPI: SSDT   (null) 000240 (v01  PmRef  Cpu0Ist 00000100 INTL 20050513)
[    0.154079] ACPI: SSDT 7f6f1feb 00065A (v01  PmRef  Cpu0Cst 00000100 INTL 20050513)
[    0.155376] ACPI: Dynamic OEM Table Load:
[    0.155388] ACPI: SSDT   (null) 00065A (v01  PmRef  Cpu0Cst 00000100 INTL 20050513)
[    0.164540] ACPI: SSDT 7f6f1c5e 0000C8 (v01  PmRef  Cpu1Ist 00000100 INTL 20050513)
[    0.165764] ACPI: Dynamic OEM Table Load:
[    0.165775] ACPI: SSDT   (null) 0000C8 (v01  PmRef  Cpu1Ist 00000100 INTL 20050513)
[    0.165968] ACPI: SSDT 7f6f1f66 000085 (v01  PmRef  Cpu1Cst 00000100 INTL 20050513)
[    0.167173] ACPI: Dynamic OEM Table Load:
[    0.167184] ACPI: SSDT   (null) 000085 (v01  PmRef  Cpu1Cst 00000100 INTL 20050513)
[    0.176442] ACPI: Interpreter enabled
[    0.176469] ACPI Exception: AE_NOT_FOUND, While evaluating Sleep State [\_S1_] (20131115/hwxface-580)
[    0.176488] ACPI Exception: AE_NOT_FOUND, While evaluating Sleep State [\_S2_] (20131115/hwxface-580)
[    0.176529] ACPI: (supports S0 S3 S4 S5)
[    0.176536] ACPI: Using IOAPIC for interrupt routing
[    0.176598] PCI: Using host bridge windows from ACPI; if necessary, use "pci=nocrs" and report a bug
[    0.177532] ACPI: ACPI Dock Station Driver: 3 docks/bays found
[    0.187007] ACPI: Power Resource [PUBS] (on)
[    0.197760] ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKA] (IRQs 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 *11)
[    0.198048] ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKB] (IRQs 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 *11)
[    0.198331] ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKC] (IRQs 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 *11)
[    0.198612] ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKD] (IRQs 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 *11)
[    0.198893] ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKE] (IRQs 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 *11)
[    0.199173] ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKF] (IRQs 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 *11)
[    0.199453] ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKG] (IRQs 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 *11)
[    0.199732] ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKH] (IRQs 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 *11)
[    0.199897] ACPI: PCI Root Bridge [PCI0] (domain 0000 [bus 00-ff])
[    0.199915] acpi PNP0A08:00: _OSC: OS supports [ExtendedConfig ASPM ClockPM Segments MSI]
[    0.201059] acpi PNP0A08:00: _OSC: OS now controls [PCIeHotplug PME AER PCIeCapability]
[    0.201142] acpi PNP0A08:00: [Firmware Info]: MMCONFIG for domain 0000 [bus 00-3f] only partially covers this bridge
[    0.202858] pci 0000:00:1b.0: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.203234] pci 0000:00:1c.0: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.203606] pci 0000:00:1c.1: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.203973] pci 0000:00:1c.2: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.204363] pci 0000:00:1c.3: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.204854] pci 0000:00:1d.0: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.204854] pci 0000:00:1d.1: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.204854] pci 0000:00:1d.2: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.205427] pci 0000:00:1d.7: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.205727] pci 0000:00:1e.0: System wakeup disabled by ACPI
[    0.205972] pci 0000:00:1f.0: address space collision: [io  0x1000-0x107f] conflicts with ACPI CPU throttle [??? 0x00001010-0x00001015 flags 0x80000000]
[    0.225834] acpi PNP0A08:00: Disabling ASPM (FADT indicates it is unsupported)
[    0.228816] ACPI: Enabled 2 GPEs in block 00 to 1F
[    0.228856] ACPI: \_SB_.PCI0: notify handler is installed
[    0.228965] Found 1 acpi root devices
[    0.229195] ACPI : EC: GPE = 0x1c, I/O: command/status = 0x66, data = 0x62
[    0.229398] ACPI: bus type USB registered
[    0.229398] PCI: Using ACPI for IRQ routing
[    0.254772] pnp: PnP ACPI init
[    0.254812] ACPI: bus type PNP registered
[    0.256240] system 00:00: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs PNP0c01 (active)
[    0.256664] system 00:01: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs PNP0c02 (active)
[    0.256813] pnp 00:02: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs PNP0200 (active)
[    0.256889] pnp 00:03: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs PNP0800 (active)
[    0.256985] pnp 00:04: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs PNP0c04 (active)
[    0.257065] pnp 00:05: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs PNP0b00 (active)
[    0.257148] pnp 00:06: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs PNP0303 (active)
[    0.257229] pnp 00:07: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs IBM3780 PNP0f13 (active)
[    0.257561] pnp 00:08: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs IBM0071 PNP0511 (disabled)
[    0.257680] pnp 00:09: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs ATM1200 PNP0c31 (active)
[    0.258773] pnp: PnP ACPI: found 10 devices
[    0.258783] ACPI: bus type PNP unregistered
[    0.258793] PnPBIOS: Disabled by ACPI PNP
[    1.295248] ACPI: AC Adapter [AC] (off-line)
[    1.297031] ACPI: Lid Switch [LID]
[    1.298283] ACPI: Sleep Button [SLPB]
[    1.299505] ACPI: Power Button [PWRF]
[    1.303514] ACPI: acpi_idle registered with cpuidle
[    1.307500] ACPI: Thermal Zone [THM0] (47 C)
[    1.310638] ACPI: Thermal Zone [THM1] (48 C)
[    1.331610] ACPI: Battery Slot [BAT0] (battery present)
[    4.746478] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/02:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[    4.746483] ata3.00: ACPI cmd f5/00:00:00:00:00:a0 (SECURITY FREEZE LOCK) filtered out
[    4.759760] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/5f:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[    4.759770] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/10:03:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) filtered out
[    4.801576] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/02:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[    4.801585] ata3.00: ACPI cmd f5/00:00:00:00:00:a0 (SECURITY FREEZE LOCK) filtered out
[    4.815049] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/5f:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[    4.815056] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/10:03:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) filtered out
[   24.095382] ACPI: Video Device [VID] (multi-head: yes  rom: no  post: no)
[   24.099144] acpi device:02: registered as cooling_device2
[   24.298652] ACPI Warning: 0x00001028-0x0000102f SystemIO conflicts with Region \_SB_.PCI0.LPC_.PMIO 1 (20131115/utaddress-251)
[   24.298663] ACPI: If an ACPI driver is available for this device, you should use it instead of the native driver
[   24.298669] ACPI Warning: 0x000011b0-0x000011bf SystemIO conflicts with Region \_SB_.PCI0.LPC_.LPIO 1 (20131115/utaddress-251)
[   24.298675] ACPI: If an ACPI driver is available for this device, you should use it instead of the native driver
[   24.298678] ACPI Warning: 0x00001180-0x000011af SystemIO conflicts with Region \_SB_.PCI0.LPC_.LPIO 1 (20131115/utaddress-251)
[   24.298684] ACPI: If an ACPI driver is available for this device, you should use it instead of the native driver
[   25.666970] thinkpad_acpi: ThinkPad ACPI Extras v0.25
[   25.666972] thinkpad_acpi: http://ibm-acpi.sf.net/
[   25.666973] thinkpad_acpi: ThinkPad BIOS 7BETD7WW (2.18 ), EC 7BHT40WW-1.13
[   25.666974] thinkpad_acpi: Lenovo ThinkPad X60, model 1709CTO
[   25.671412] thinkpad_acpi: detected a 8-level brightness capable ThinkPad
[   25.672146] thinkpad_acpi: ACPI backlight control delay disabled
[   25.672285] thinkpad_acpi: radio switch found; radios are enabled
[   25.672301] thinkpad_acpi: This ThinkPad has standard ACPI backlight brightness control, supported by the ACPI video driver
[   25.672302] thinkpad_acpi: Disabling thinkpad-acpi brightness events by default...
[   25.679471] thinkpad_acpi: Standard ACPI backlight interface available, not loading native one
[   25.679601] thinkpad_acpi: Console audio control enabled, mode: monitor (read only)
[   25.683048] input: ThinkPad Extra Buttons as /devices/platform/thinkpad_acpi/input/input7
[   69.153287] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/02:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[   69.153296] ata3.00: ACPI cmd f5/00:00:00:00:00:a0 (SECURITY FREEZE LOCK) filtered out
[   69.153481] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/5f:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[   69.153489] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/10:03:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) filtered out
[   69.155842] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/02:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[   69.155850] ata3.00: ACPI cmd f5/00:00:00:00:00:a0 (SECURITY FREEZE LOCK) filtered out
[   69.156070] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/5f:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[   69.156082] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/10:03:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) filtered out
[  100.161169] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/02:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[  100.161175] ata3.00: ACPI cmd f5/00:00:00:00:00:a0 (SECURITY FREEZE LOCK) filtered out
[  100.161360] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/5f:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[  100.161365] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/10:03:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) filtered out
[  100.163708] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/02:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[  100.163716] ata3.00: ACPI cmd f5/00:00:00:00:00:a0 (SECURITY FREEZE LOCK) filtered out
[  100.163902] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/5f:00:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) succeeded
[  100.163909] ata3.00: ACPI cmd ef/10:03:00:00:00:a0 (SET FEATURES) filtered out
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ dmesg | grep -i error
[    2.888175] tpm_tis 00:09: A TPM error (6) occurred attempting to read a pcr value
[   28.037552] EXT4-fs (sda6): re-mounted. Opts: errors=remount-ro
[   68.832123] ata3: SError: { CommWake }
[   99.840075] ata3: SError: { CommWake }
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ dmesg | grep -i warn
[    0.000000] ACPI BIOS Warning (bug): 32/64X length mismatch in FADT/Gpe1Block: 0/32 (20131115/tbfadt-572)
[    0.000000] ACPI BIOS Warning (bug): Optional FADT field Gpe1Block has zero address or length: 0x000000000000102C/0x0 (20131115/tbfadt-603)
[   24.298652] ACPI Warning: 0x00001028-0x0000102f SystemIO conflicts with Region \_SB_.PCI0.LPC_.PMIO 1 (20131115/utaddress-251)
[   24.298669] ACPI Warning: 0x000011b0-0x000011bf SystemIO conflicts with Region \_SB_.PCI0.LPC_.LPIO 1 (20131115/utaddress-251)
[   24.298678] ACPI Warning: 0x00001180-0x000011af SystemIO conflicts with Region \_SB_.PCI0.LPC_.LPIO 1 (20131115/utaddress-251)
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 

```

Ok ... several bugs and warnings... relevant?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-08
andrea b; Hey, I have been investigating !


"Ok ... several bugs and warnings... relevant?" -> Yeah they do have relevancy and worthy of concern.
Once more, tell me that on ac power there is not problems > Such that all we are looking at is power management when on the battery source ?

If that is so then:
show me:
```

dpkg -l acpi-support

```
And we will look at editing the file "/etc/default/acpi-support" such that we set -> ENABLE_LAPTOP_MODE=true.

Might also be of interest to look into 'laptop-mode-tools' -> laptop-mode-tools - Tools for Power Savings based on battery/AC status.

The optimal thing to do - in my opinion - is to get away from having to use any alternative boot parameters. But, that may prove not possible.

[INDENT][INDENT]what to do, oh what to do.
\[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-08
Ok...doing all this on AC, which poses no real problems that I can see.  When I ran this latest dpkg command, I got "dpkg-query: no packages found matching acpi=support"...

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-08
andrea b; Yuk, Done it again.

correct to be:
```

dpkg -l acpi-support

```
as per:
> 
sysop@1310mini:~$ apt-cache search acpi-support
acpi-support - scripts for handling many ACPI events
sysop@1310mini:~$ 

I expect there to also be a man page installed. I bet will be instructive to read the directions:
```

man acpi-support

```

Just looking for a means to control the power management when on 'battery'.

[INDENT][INDENT]where there is a will these is a way
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-08
Hey, Bashin' - this was *my* bad, I must have mistyped it with an "=".     So: here's the result of command #1:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ dpkg -l acpi-support
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Inst/Conf-files/Unpacked/halF-conf/Half-inst/trig-aWait/Trig-pend
|/ Err?=(none)/Reinst-required (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version      Architecture Description
+++-==============-============-============-=================================
ii  acpi-support   0.142        i386         scripts for handling many ACPI ev
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 

```

Unfortunately, turns out there's "No manual entry for acpi-support".

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-08
andrea b; Well, well.

Then we do have built-in support for ACPI.
What returns for:
```

cat /etc/default/acpi-support

```
maybe we can do something from that config file.

[INDENT][INDENT]it could happen
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-08
Here you / we go:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ cat /etc/default/acpi-support
#
# Configuration file for the acpi-support package
#
#
# The acpi-support package is intended as "glue" to make special functions of
# laptops work. Specifically, it translates special function keys for some
# laptop models into actions or generic function key presses.
#


#
# Suspend/hibernate method
# ------------------------
#
# When gnome-power-manager or klaptopdaemon are running, acpi-support will
# translate the suspend and hibernate keys of laptops into special "suspend"
# and "hibernate" keys that these daemons handle.
#
# Only in situations where there is no gnome-power-manager or klaptopdaemon
# running, acpi-support needs to perform suspend/hibernate in some other way.
# There are several options for this. The options are:
#
# dbus-pm:
#    Perform suspend and hibernate actions via a DBUS request to the power
#    management daemon. This works for power management daemons that we don't
#    know of. (For gnome-power-manager and klaptopdaemon this will do nothing,
#    since those will be detected when they are running, and triggered using
#    a virtual keypress.)
#
# dbus-hal:
#    Perform suspend and hibernate actions via a DBUS request directly to HAL,
#    bypassing any running power management daemons.
#
# pm-utils:
#    Use pm-suspend and pm-hibernate to suspend and hibernate. (The dbus method
#    normally results in this as well, but calls through dbus. Use this option
#    only if you don't have dbus installed.)
#
# hibernate:
#    Use the hibernate package to suspend and hibernate.
#
# acpi-support:
#    Use the legacy built-in suspend/hibernate support. (DEPRECATED)
# 
# none:
#    Do not attempt to suspend/hibernate. Set SUSPEND_METHODS="none" to
#    disable suspend/hibernate handling in acpi-support.
#
# If you specify dbus or pm-utils, the result will normally be the same as when
# you suspend from your desktop environment. If you specify "hibernate" or
# "acpi-support", be aware that this probably does not match what your desktop
# environment would do (unless you have managed to configure something so that
# the DBUS power management interfaces call the hibernate package).
#
#
# Please specify a space separated list of options. The recommended value is
# "dbus pm-utils"
#
SUSPEND_METHODS="dbus-pm dbus-hal pm-utils"



#
# LEGACY BUILT IN SUSPEND SUPPORT (DEPRECATED)
# --------------------------------------------
#
# These options only work for the "acpi-support" suspend method. This is NOT
# recommended, but is retained for backward compatibility reasons.
#

# Comment the next line to disable ACPI suspend to RAM
ACPI_SLEEP=true

# Comment the next line to disable suspend to disk
ACPI_HIBERNATE=true

# Change the following to "standby" to use ACPI S1 sleep, rather than S3.
# This will save less power, but may work on more machines
ACPI_SLEEP_MODE=mem

# Add modules to this list to have them removed before suspend and reloaded
# on resume. An example would be MODULES="em8300 yenta_socket"
#
# Note that network cards and USB controllers will automatically be unloaded 
# unless they're listed in MODULES_WHITELIST
MODULES=""

# Add modules to this list to leave them in the kernel over suspend/resume
MODULES_WHITELIST=""

# Should we save and restore state using the VESA BIOS Extensions?
SAVE_VBE_STATE=true

# The file that we use to save the vbestate
VBESTATE=/var/lib/acpi-support/vbestate

# Should we attempt to warm-boot the video hardware on resume?
POST_VIDEO=true

# Save and restore video state?
# SAVE_VIDEO_PCI_STATE=true

# Should we switch the screen off with DPMS on suspend?
USE_DPMS=true

# Use Radeontool to switch the screen off? Seems to be needed on some machines
# RADEON_LIGHT=true

# Uncomment the next line to switch away from X and back again after resume.
# This is needed for some hardware, but should be unnecessary on most.
# DOUBLE_CONSOLE_SWITCH=true

# Set the following to "platform" if you want to use ACPI to shut down
# your machine on hibernation
HIBERNATE_MODE=shutdown

# Comment this out to disable screen locking on resume
LOCK_SCREEN=true

# Uncomment this line to have DMA disabled before suspend and reenabled
# afterwards
# DISABLE_DMA=true

# Uncomment this line to attempt to reset the drive on resume. This seems
# to be needed for some Sonys
# RESET_DRIVE=true

# Add services to this list to stop them before suspend and restart them in 
# the resume process.
STOP_SERVICES=""

# Restart Infra Red services on resume - off by default as it crashes some
# machines
RESTART_IRDA=false

# Add to this list network interfaces that you don't want to be stopped
# during suspend (in fact any network interface whose name starts with
# a prefix given in this list is skipped)
SKIP_INTERFACES="dummy qemu"

# Note: to enable "laptop mode" (to spin down your hard drive for longer
# periods of time), install the laptop-mode-tools package and configure
# it in /etc/laptop-mode/laptop-mode.conf. 
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 
```

Interesting ... not that I truly understand it!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-09
andrea b; Well ....

"/etc/default/acpi-support" Kinda disappointing to me .. HAL (hardware abstraction layer) is no longer a component in 14.04, and I see nothing that we really want to change at this point in that file; not with standing the directive to now install :
> 
# Note: to enable "laptop mode" (to spin down your hard drive for longer
# periods of time), install the laptop-mode-tools package and configure
# it in /etc/laptop-mode/laptop-mode.conf.


With that info, I do not see how enabling "ENABLE_LAPTOP_MODE=true" will help us.

So now I am back to the drawing board, see what I can find for ACPI support in release 14.04 .

Loosing HAL - All I know to do !

[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]it is ubuntu
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]all things are possible
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-09
Well, Bashing-om,

I feel we are at the logical end of this particular journey ... unless you feel you'd like to continue it as 'Mr. Wizard' experiment. (Do you know / remember the science show, Mr. Wizard? Man, I loved that show...! I don't know whether it was a North East broadcast, or national.)  

You are a great guide and boon companion!  But - the weather's looking right for a re-install of Ubuntu.  And if Ubuntu gives me *any* more trouble on this machine (Good Lord, this is the *second* epic thread it's generated!) I'm going to just call it a day and make this my Windows single-boot machine (after all, I have two other boxes that seem to take well to Ubuntu.  This one just seems ... allergic.)

On the other hand - If you get a kick out of the challenge, I'll give it an additional shot...!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-09
andrea b; Well, I too

Am at about my wits end.
There is this:
> 
Update BIOS
ACPI requires a relatively new BIOS version. In particular, if you get the message,
  ACPI: Could not use ECDT
during startup, you probably need a BIOS Upgrade. For example, a BIOS upgrade from version 1.02 to 1.10 was all that was needed for ACPI to start working


If you do not have post messages enabled for bios , enable and see if you see that admonishment when booting ( a bios message ).

Also look at what is installed:
[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_make_ACPI_work](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_make_ACPI_work)

acpid is a daemon that handles the ACPI events generated by the system. 
sysop@1310mini:~$ apt-cache search acpid
acpid - Advanced Configuration and Power Interface event daemon
acpidump - utilities to dump system's ACPI tables to an ASCII file
sysop@1310mini:~$ dpkg -l acpid
dpkg-query: no packages found matching acpid
sysop@1310mini:~$
//
ThinkPads on which it is recommended to use ACPI -> ThinkPad X60s

I do not know that 14.04 even has a support structure for 'acpid' as 'hal' is no longer implemented . But wont hurt to look.

This is another of those 
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]sometimes I wonder
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]othertimes I do not know
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-12
We have tried once again ... struggling mightily, and engaging Great Minds in the effort save my ubuntu partition ... again the effort has generated a thread of astounding length.

I'd say, we have lost this battle.  But we shall win the war.  Time to delete partition and reinstall ubuntu. 

Sometimes we wonder.  Other times, we do not know. 

Thanks for being my guide on this journey!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-12
andrea b; Hey !

If at 1st ( 2nd, 3rd) we do not succeed, try try again . We may have lost this battle, but, the war goes on.

Try again as a fresh install, maybe under battery power this time and see if the system installs somewhat differently (??).

We learn some more in the process.

[INDENT][INDENT]once more ->
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]into the fray
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-12
Ok, got your message - I'm open to trying this ... but I'm not sure what *exactly* I'm supposed to do first. 

Re. BIOS - apart from updating it (I know it's not the most recent version per Win7) I don't want to mess with anything that will mess with Windows functionality.

What to do re. acpi, then?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-13
andrea b; Sheessshh,

Not making a lot of headway in this.
One thing for sure, we need to be able to boot ubuntu's liveDVD, and power-management functions ! I see no real gain/point in installing 'til the system runs well in that live environment.

I have yet to find updated info after HAL has been depreciated, and to compound the situation:
[http://www.bit-tech.net/news/bits/2010/02/03/win-7-bug-may-kill-batteries/1](http://www.bit-tech.net/news/bits/2010/02/03/win-7-bug-may-kill-batteries/1) 
<- Hints that battery conditions are a Windows7 - specifically - issue not Ubuntu. In that maybe Windows is not releasing the hard ware ??

I have yet to be able to wrap my mind around what the kernel is doing about power management. As such I presently have no idea what to look at or how to test. With the demise of HAL, all old info may no longer apply. All I look at refers to system calls going through HAL. Before this is resolved I bet I get a lot wiser as what is going on at the kernel level . I expect a slow process in learning, and a lot of trial and error on your part as it appears - from Google searches -  that you are the 1st to experience this condition with the T60.

I know of no better way to proceed other than fire up ubuntu in the liveDVD "try ubuntu" mode and start reading the logs to get an indication of what is transpiring. dmesg and syslog may relate a bunch.

We may indeed be in this for the long haul; If you are up to this, provide the logs and we will pick up the fight once more.
```

sudo apt-get install pastebinit ##will have to be done each time the liveDVD is booted for paste access##
pastebinit /var/log/dmesg
pastebinit /var/log/syslog

```
and pass back the resulting URL to me .. I will see what I can make of the logs.

----------------------------------------------

To all, I am open to any suggestions as to how to isolate the power management issue. I do welcome any help , maybe certify this as a bug and get some developer help ?

[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]let the adventure begin anew
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-13
Wow!  My own bug!  

Ok.  Not that I really understand what HAL is.  But in you I trust. This box is an X60 - my T60 is happy with its full install of 14.04, and my other X60, with its XP / 14.04 double boot.  I'll get to this either later tonight or tomorrow morning. 

Onward.  At least a few more yards.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-14
@andrea b:
Would You try overriding **ondemand** service by using:
```
echo "performance" | sudo tee -a /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpufreq/scaling_governor
```
where * from {0,1,2,...,#o_of_cores}...?
There is a possibility that working premise You've been using through this whole thread might be wrong...

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-14
> **zika said:**
> @andrea b:
Would You try overriding **ondemand** service by using:
```
echo "performance" | sudo tee -a /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpufreq/scaling_governor
```
where * from {0,1,2,...,#o_of_cores}...?
There is a possibility that working premise You've been using through this whole thread might be wrong...

I'm ok with assuming a wrong working premise - I want to make sure I understand the use of the wildcard * (as a toootal newbie who's just read a few things.)  How would this command look in practice? Just as you gave it to me, or (as I assume) with values inserted that ... I don't understand (...!)

Many thanks!

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-14
```
echo "performance" | sudo tee -a /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_governor
echo "performance" | sudo tee -a /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu1/cpufreq/scaling_governor
...
```
I do not have idea how many cores You do have... You could check, for eaxample, via```
ll /sys/devices/system/cpu/
```or, even simpler```
lscpu|grep On
```...

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-14
> **zika said:**
> ```
echo "performance" | sudo tee -a /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_governor
echo "performance" | sudo tee -a /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu1/cpufreq/scaling_governor
...
```
I do not have idea how many cores You do have... You could check, for eaxample, via```
ll /sys/devices/system/cpu/
```or, even simpler```
lscpu|grep On
```...


Got it; I have a dual core machine, but checked anyway.  Here's the result of the commands:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ lscpu|grep On
On-line CPU(s) list:   0,1
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ echo "performance" | sudo tee -a /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_governor
[sudo] password for andrea: 
performance
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ echo "performance" | sudo tee -a /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu1/cpufreq/scaling_governor
performance
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 


```

"performance" was also the output for the value, cpu2.

Could uninstalling cpufreq be a help here?  Or has this nothing to do with anything?  

(What next?)

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-15
OK, You've made it...
So, do You see any difference... &#8222;Next&#8220; is in your yard, I can just wait for Your impression... ;)
Commands You've tried are &#8222;in use&#8220; only in that session (until You boot or...)
Do not see where idea about uninstall comes from...

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-15
> **zika said:**
> OK, You've made it...
So, do You see any difference... &#8222;Next&#8220; is in your yard, I can just wait for Your impression... ;)
Commands You've tried are &#8222;in use&#8220; only in that session (until You boot or...)
Do not see where idea about uninstall comes from...

Well...there's little difference, unfortunately. Cpu still seems to max out / windows get greyed out / system slows dramatically. 

The uninstall idea comes from sheer non-understanding - I get now that cpufreq is only an indicator, not a regulator of power / cpu usage.

(Sigh.)

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-15
> **andrea b said:**
> Well...there's little difference, unfortunately. Cpu still seems to max out / windows get greyed out / system slows dramatically.Once/if I get a glimpse of a free time for reading most of this thread I'll try to get to some idea what is the problem and what is going on... Please, do not wait for that if You have other plans...
Shot in the dark with one eye closed: what is the amount of free memory once that start to happen...? Do You still get quite different behavior while on AC and while on battery? Did You put exact replacement for the original battery? What was the effect while using LiveUSB?

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-15
> **zika said:**
> Once/if I get a glimpse of a free time for reading most of this thread I'll try to get to some idea what is the problem and what is going on... Please, do not wait for that if You have other plans...
Shot in the dark with one eye closed: what is the amount of free memory once that start to happen...? Do You still get quite different behavior while on AC and while on battery? Did You put exact replacement for the original battery? What was the effect while using LiveUSB?


1) Live Disc works fine.  AC and battery are day and night. AC is fine. Battery renders it unusable. The behavior began with what I believe to be an exact replacement - and continued even after I put back the original (weak but w/ 45 mins. of life) battery. At the moment, it's the new battery that's in.  

I have another X60 ThinkPad that runs fine on this battery...although the insertion of these batteries in all machines (2 X60's, 1 T60) resulted in a system error on boot that I did write down ... and need to find. This other X60 has different specs - 1.83 processor, for one. The processor on the problematic machine is a 1.66 x 2. Graphics: Intel 945GM x86/MMX/SSE2, if that's relevant.) 

2) How do I find out amount of free memory when this happens (and unfortunately, when it happens, it's hard to access any app or terminal).  What I can tell you is that *swappiness* is 15, if that's relevant.

Thanks so much for your attention, Zika!

UPDATE: when I tried to run  ```
cat /proc/meminfo]
```  I got output on AC, but when I tried to do this on battery power, the command was erased in command line!  I'd press 'enter', and the command would disappear.  (!) But then got it to work.  Output:

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ cat /proc/meminfo
MemTotal:        2054992 kB
MemFree:          206872 kB
Buffers:           90452 kB
Cached:           824836 kB
SwapCached:          240 kB
Active:           936292 kB
Inactive:         796952 kB
Active(anon):     551512 kB
Inactive(anon):   448144 kB
Active(file):     384780 kB
Inactive(file):   348808 kB
Unevictable:          76 kB
Mlocked:              76 kB
HighTotal:       1174344 kB
HighFree:          58500 kB
LowTotal:         880648 kB
LowFree:          148372 kB
SwapTotal:       2456572 kB
SwapFree:        2454604 kB
Dirty:                 0 kB
Writeback:             4 kB
AnonPages:        817796 kB
Mapped:           191228 kB
Shmem:            181700 kB
Slab:              80980 kB
SReclaimable:      63000 kB
SUnreclaim:        17980 kB
KernelStack:        3824 kB
PageTables:        13180 kB
NFS_Unstable:          0 kB
Bounce:                0 kB
WritebackTmp:          0 kB
CommitLimit:     3484068 kB
Committed_AS:    4306248 kB
VmallocTotal:     122880 kB
VmallocUsed:       12336 kB
VmallocChunk:     101132 kB
HardwareCorrupted:     0 kB
AnonHugePages:    153600 kB
HugePages_Total:       0
HugePages_Free:        0
HugePages_Rsvd:        0
HugePages_Surp:        0
Hugepagesize:       2048 kB
DirectMap4k:       26616 kB
DirectMap2M:      886784 kB
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 



```

The result of ```
free -m  
``` is as follows (first output is AC power; the second two are on battery, around 15 seconds apart)

```
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2006       1831        175        183         88        811
-/+ buffers/cache:        930       1076
Swap:         2398          1       2397
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2006       1819        187        182         88        810
-/+ buffers/cache:        919       1087
Swap:         2398          1       2397
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2006       1793        213        182         88        811
-/+ buffers/cache:        892       1113
Swap:         2398          1       2397
andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ 

```

On the *original* battery, the machine runs a bit better (though still not truly usable), and the output of this command is: oops ... hang on...

```



```

Hope I'm not giving you too much of the *wrong* information ... And I quite understand your time limitations - appreciate any glimpse you can spare.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-15
> **andrea b said:**
> 1) Live Disc works fine.  AC and battery are day and night. AC is fine. Battery renders it unusable. 
LiveUSB/DISC: works fine with AC or with battery or both?
Are You sure You did not distort one or more battery connectors in this processes of replacements?

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-15
> **zika said:**
> LiveUSB/DISC: works fine with AC or with battery or both?
Are You sure You did not distort one or more battery connectors in this processes of replacements?

Excellent question; I don't believe I bent anything ... but I will check again.  Live Disc doesn't work well on battery...but let me check again and make sure while on original battery. 

Thanks!

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-15
> **andrea b said:**
> Excellent question; I don't believe I bent anything ... but I will check again.  _Live Disc doesn't work well on battery..._but let me check again and make sure while on original battery. 
Thanks!That is not a good news...
Ergo, very possible and primary conclusion is that Ubuntu is not to be blamed. Quite to the contrary...
Yes, Windows might work OK but that is another story, testimony what are the main differences between these two (let me say that way even though it might be inappropriate) kernels...
I'll try to investigate how to neutralize linux kernel's obsession to use every possible information about HW in this case... No promises whatsoever... Something is broken in HW...

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-15
> **zika said:**
> That is not a good news...
Ergo, very possible and primary conclusion is that Ubuntu is not to be blamed. Quite to the contrary...
Yes, Windows might work OK but that is another story, testimony what are the main differences between these two (let me say that way even though it might be inappropriate) kernels...
I'll try to investigate how to neutralize linux kernel's obsession to use every possible information about HW in this case... No promises whatsoever... Something is broken in HW...

Ok ... Live Disc DOES work perfectly on battery (the new problematic one - the original is too dead).  I'm typing this on Live Disc battery power right now. That's informative, I hope.  And I hope it's good news,  not bad news.

Worst case scenario is that I'll use pendrivelinux or something on this machine.   I also must say that I like the more 'Linuxy' (if I may call it that) GNU look and feel  that I tasted when I first tried Hardy Heron back in 2009.  (There was no way of getting it to work with my old wireless card then ... that was the only reason I had to give it up.)  Maybe a different (beginner-friendly) distro would be better for this machine...)   I don't need 'wow' graphics, and my machines probably huff and puff to produce the effects.

Thanks, Zika!

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-15
> **andrea b said:**
> Ok ... Live Disc DOES work perfectly on battery (the new problematic one - the original is too dead).
OK, that is the turn in the right direction...
What would You regret about current install if You would do clean new install?

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-15
> **zika said:**
> OK, that is the turn in the right direction...
What would You regret about current install if You would do clean new install?

I'm happy to do a clean install; there's really nothing I would lose - I was interested in seeing if I could learn something by working to solve the problem.  But I'm happy to reinstall, keeping my shared-data partition and swap partition.  Notably, this machine was the subject of [another overlong thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2221397") concerning the first reinstall.  So  - this would be the 4th install of Ubuntu on this machine - it's as though it's allergic!  The original install was painfully slow / with freezes; the second (subject of the thread) produced a weird partitioning (my fault). Once I did a proper Gparted partitioning and reinstalled (with windows 7 and a shared data partion) all was well!  

Until the battery.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-15
> **andrea b said:**
> I'm happy to do a clean install; there's really nothing I would lose - I was interested in seeing if I could learn something by working to solve the problem.  But I'm happy to reinstall, keeping my shared-data partition and swap partition.  Notably, this machine was the subject of [another overlong thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2221397") concerning the first reinstall.  So  - this would be the 4th install of Ubuntu on this machine - it's as though it's allergic!  The original install was **painfully slow / with freezes**; the second (subject of the thread) produced a weird partitioning (my fault). Once I did a proper Gparted partitioning and reinstalled (with windows 7 and a shared data partion) all was well!  
Until the battery.As I wrote: „Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.“
I am almost sure I'll find no time in forseable future to investigate that second thread...
I would suggest You to do a clean install and inform us about nice and working laptop You've got... Good luck.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-15
andrea b; zika : hey;


When one has nothing to add, say nothing, just because I have been silent is not to mean I have not been keeping up.
+1 my vote to start afresh. Log files will be very informative.

off topic: andrea, if you want a lighter desk top and something more like the XP that you are accustomed to .. take a look at the Lubuntu release.
It is the exact same kernel, and support structures that you have in (u)buntu, just a different desktop and default apps.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu)

[INDENT][INDENT]where there is a will there is a way
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-15
That's fine, Zika.  (the error is an apportcheck error, by the way.)

And - when things go geflooey again, it will be thread number 3.  Yikes.

Thanks a lot - go in peace!

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-15
And ... I've just reinstalled ubuntu - seems to work fine on battery.  So - at least *this* problem is resolved.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-15
andrea b; Wow !

Does this mean the war is over and we have won ?

[INDENT][INDENT]good things do happen
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-16
> **andrea b said:**
> And ... I've just reinstalled ubuntu - seems to work fine on battery.  So - at least *this* problem is resolved.:grin:
Enjoy...

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-16
@ zika; Thanks much.

[INDENT][INDENT]I did  enjoy working with you and your great advise.
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]we can do this
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-16
> **Bashing-om said:**
> @ zika; Thanks much.
[INDENT][INDENT]I did  enjoy working with you and your great advise.[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]we can do this
[/INDENT]
[/INDENT]
[/INDENT]
[/INDENT]
[/INDENT]
Please do not make me blush...
Just a pebble in a storm, that's what I am... ;)
All the best to the both of You...

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-16
One final update!  And - who knows - this could be useful to another frustrated devotee of Ubuntu and the older ThinkPad. 

I read on a [TLP related thread in another forum]("https://github.com/linrunner/TLP/issues/33") that the insertion of a defective battery can cause very strange behavior on ThinkPads - even when on AC. My reinstall of 14.04 went well...until I installed TLP; on reboot, the machine acted as before. TLP has additional code specifically for the ThinkPad (which I did not have installed). Rather than install the extra utility, I uninstalled TLP altogether, and the system reverted to normal. 

A newbie, I installed TLP *and* cpufreq on my other machines (and on the now-gone previous install on this X60).  I've wondered whether they interfere with one another, but there have been no obvious problems. 

I'll open a new thread asking ThinkPadders whether they have power management / cpu scaling preferences for these machines.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-06-16
andrea b; Humm ..

A thought, TLP is 3rd party software, and perhaps has not caught up to be consistent on the new release 14.04. Might spend some time and see what is available native in ubuntu for power management.

Another thought, is to open a bug report with TLP, as credible as they seem to be, I would think they would be very interested in the troubles we have been experiencing, and isolating it to TLP. I would be very interested in their response.

[INDENT][INDENT]the fault does not always lye with ubuntu
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by WinEunuchs2Unix on 2014-06-17
I just caught the tail end of this thread of "reinstalling / reconfiguring the software for a bad battery" and saw the following:

andrea@andrea-ThinkPad-X60:~$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2006       1831        175        183         88        811
-/+ buffers/cache:        930       1076
Swap:         2398          1       2397
Others recommend that your Swap file / partition be twice the size of your RAM.  So assuming they are right on your machine it should be 4012 and not 2398.  That said on my machine it's not exactly twice the size...LOL :

[FONT=courier new]~$ **free -m**[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]Mem:          **3943**       3507        435        237        178       1638[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]-/+ buffers/cache:       1690       2252[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]Swap:         **7629**          6       7623[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]
[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]~$ [/FONT]


Sorry just read the last two pages of messages on this thread so it's all I can offer up :popcorn:

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-17
As I already wrote:
> **zika said:**
> As I wrote: &#8222;Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.&#8220;I might just add: there is no thing such as free lunch...
It seems that You've fould culprit. Now You just have to decide: it or performance... Choice is totally Yours... ;)
It might have been helpfull if You've said that You've been using it at the very start... ;)
Update&#8321;: This also finally explains behaviour due to battery-pack change. Recalibration of TLP is needed... Which, of course, makes sence once adopting the idea that someone would need SW like that...

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-17
> **zika said:**
> As I already wrote:
I might just add: there is no thing such as free lunch...
It seems that You've fould culprit. Now You just have to decide: it or performance... Choice is totally Yours... ;)
It might have been helpfull if You've said that You've been using it at the very start... ;)
Update&#8321;: This also finally explains behaviour due to battery-pack change. Recalibration of TLP is needed... Which, of course, makes sence once adopting the idea that someone would need SW like that...

Well, when I installed these things, I knew *even less* than I do now :-?   I just followed those '10 things you must do after installing...' articles. And I knew I needed power management.  And I forgot that I had them both; I do recall asking something about uninstalling cpufreq ...

In any case, I will have to find out more about cpu scaling before I reinstall, if I do.  Do tlp and cpufreq interfere with one another?

Thanks, Zika!

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-17
> **andrea b said:**
> Well, when I installed these things, I knew *even less* than I do now :-?   I just followed those '10 things you must do after installing...' articles. And I knew I needed power management.  And I forgot that I had them both; I do recall asking something about uninstalling cpufreq ...
In any case, I will have to find out more about cpu scaling before I reinstall, if I do.  Do tlp and cpufreq interfere with one another?
Thanks, Zika!You mention **cpufreq **but I do not quite get what do You mean by that...
I've gave You a simpel way to change governor for frequency and power usage for the cores of Your CPU... (powersave, onemand, performance...) listed in (for example for my CPU)```
 :~$ cat /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_available_governors conservative ondemand userspace powersave performance

```You could use cpufreq-set for a bit simpler change but as long as this change could be set in script and used through alias there is no need for any other tool, as far as I'm concerned...
As far as &#8222;10 thing You should think before Yo do after installing...&#8220; is concerned I'm sure You're already aware what do i think about such... ;)
About collisions of [COLOR=#000000]TLP [/COLOR]with Ubuntu core utilities fro CPU control and aforementioned app. You should ask girls and boys that wrote it... ;)
I only could repeat the thing I wrote earlier in this thread: [COLOR=#000000][COLOR=#000000]Too many cooks[/COLOR][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][COLOR=#000000][COLOR=#000000] spoil the broth...
In Your case it is not TLP to blame, to be honest... You just did not use it according to TLP guidelines: if You just did a recalibration of TLP after You've changed the only thing it was gaining any usefull information: battery, all would have been quite good... Windows did not have such confused (by battery change) apprentice ad so it did not care about battery change... So everything makes sense... ;)
All the best... ;)[/COLOR][/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by andrea b on 2014-06-17
Wise and true, Zika ... I'm learning a lot from my mistakes.  Fortunately, I made sure I had nothing to lose on this machine before I commenced this little adventure.  I'm going to be much more cautious in future.  

All the best to you ;)

Andrea

---

