---
title: "10.04 not seeing all of 4GiB"
date: 2012-05-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by EarlsFurniture on 2012-05-16
I have an eMachines EL1352 with the advertised following specs:

4GiB RAM
AMD Athlon(tm) II X2 215 Processor (2.7GHz - 64bits)

I am running 10.04.4 Ubuntu Server x64 version

```
uname -a
Linux server 2.6.32-41-server #89-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 27 22:33:31 UTC 2012 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```The BIOS correctly reports memory of 4 GiB and the CPU at 2.7 GHz.


```
sudo lshw
``` reports total 4 GiB RAM in two banks of 2 GiB.

However, it reports the processor name correctly, but the size as 800MHz, with capacity 2700MHz.

It also reports the width correctly as 64 bits.

```
sudo dmidecode
``` reports 4608 MB, in two banks of 2048 MB each. (capacity 8GB - nice to know) and reports the correct CPU info, including the size as 2700MHz. (no 800 MHz issue here)  It also reports the cpu as "64 bit capable"

```
cat /proc/meminfo
``` however is where it starts to get weird for memory.

It reports:

```
MemTotal:        3799772 kB
```This is the same value I get from ***top***, ***htop***, and from ***System Monitor***. ( System Monitor reports in GiB so it translates to 3.6 not 3.7 or 3.8 )

```
cat /proc/cpuinfo
``` reports the following:

```
cpu MHz        : 800.000
address sizes    : 48 bits physical, 48 bits virtual
```For both processors 1 & 2 (0 & 1)

So my questions are:

1. Do I really have 4 GiB of RAM and if so, why doesn't Ubuntu see it all?

2. How can I fix this?

3. Do I have two CPU's running at 800MHz each, or are they both really running at 2.7GHz each as advertised?

4. If the CPUs are under-clocked, can I change this even though the BIOS shows them at 2.7GHz?

5. Are my CPUs really 48bit with some 64bit capability or true 64bit?  Wouldn't 48 bits be enough to see plenty more than 3.6 GiB or RAM anyway?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2012-05-16
Your CPU underclocks to 800MHz at idle to save power. That is normal/desired.
As for the RAM, your integrated video is probably reserving 256MB, so that's normal too.
And for address size, that's fine. For technical explanation, see: [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/address-sizes-in-cpuinfo-757456/#post3695409](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/address-sizes-in-cpuinfo-757456/#post3695409)

---

### Post by EarlsFurniture on 2012-05-23
Thanks, that makes perfect sense.  I learn something new everyday.

---

