---
title: "9.10 dual boot with Win7, SATA issue on Acer 1810TZ"
date: 2009-12-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by politenessman on 2009-12-27
My lovely wife got me an Acer 1810TZ for Christmas. The 1810 comes with Windows 7 installed, and I like using Ubuntu, so I shrank the windows partition and installed 9.10, 32 bit desktop and it worked just fine however, (I am a little slow sometimes) I soon realised that I had a 64bit machine and should have a 64 bit OS, so i got 9.10 64bit desktop.

Installing 9.10, 64 bit gave me about two days of random errors - windows would work but ubuntu would fail to load and vice versa. (I will point out that all the way through this, GRUB worked perfectly) Eventually I lost patience and deleted the all of the partitions on the drive (except the recovery and boot partitions) and reinstalled Windows 7 and Ubuntu 9.10 64bit desktop.

Windows works fine but Ubuntu has pages of disk errors when booting and at some point will eventually hang. I had a gut feel about the hard drive set up, so popping into the BIOS I found that the drive has two SATA modes - IDE and AHCI. I spent some time experimenting with these modes and found that:

In AHCI mode, windows 7 works but Ubuntu will fail to boot - usually after 10 minutes of disk and other (to me) random errors.

In IDE mode, Windows 7 will try and boot but will in fact reboot itself just before displaying the windows animated logo. Ubuntu works just fine in this mode however.

Is there a patch for 9.10 64 bit desktop that allows the use of the SATA drive in AHCI mode, so i don't have to keep going into the BIOS settings when wanting to boot into Windows?

---

### Post by politenessman on 2009-12-27
It turns out that the BIOS has an update (as described by this thread [here](http://forum.notebookreview.com/showthread.php?p=5648260)
I'm going to try it and will report my findings here.

---

### Post by politenessman on 2009-12-27
I re-flashed the BIOS to the version shown in the link above, and problem solved. Now Windows 7 and 9.10 64bit work side by side, just fine.

---

