---
title: "IBM X31 Ati Mobility Radeon M6 LY - HOW TO ENABLE 3D"
date: 2008-08-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by coorior on 2008-08-24
Ok guys , it's my first post and i'm still newbie in Linux world , so please forgive me for any mistakes i make . also i'm not a native english speaker , but i will try my best , fell free to correct me ..
 to business ,, i have an old laptop IBM X31 with ATI MOBILITY RADEON M6 LY . i have been trying to enable my graphic card very long time , there is few treads on how to do it , but it didn't work on my computer . most of how-toes are too complicated for newbies like myself . i found this how to on chinese ubuntu forums  ( [http://forum.ubuntu.org.cn/viewtopic.php?t=127472&sid=1da966168cfa6f7da187dc488b88ac9c](http://forum.ubuntu.org.cn/viewtopic.php?t=127472&sid=1da966168cfa6f7da187dc488b88ac9c) ) written by zishanchen , so all thanks should go to him . as i study and live in china  wanted to translate it to you . 
 NOTE: this how-to is very simple , just copy and paste procedure . without any descriptions so you will not get confused . 
  
 
   this how-to was written for IBM X31 . if you want to try it on other computer with the same graphic card , do it at your own risk .    on my computer it worked perfectly .


 
1.  first restart your computer .
 
2.  update your system (in terminal)   

  sudo apt-get update 
  sudo apt-get upgrade

3.  in terminal enter                    
  
lspci | grep ATI 
    
 output must be  "ATI Technologies Inc RadMobility M6 LY"
     if it is please proceed , if not stop here .

4.  if you installed fglrx you should stop it, it can be done by accessing    system > administration > hardware drivers                  stop it from there and restart your computer again .

5.  in terminal enter                   

 glxinfo | grep vendor 

     if output is :

          server glx vendor string: SGI
          client glx vendor string: SGI
          OpenGL vendor string: Tungsten Graphics, Inc.
     
you are ready to proceed .

6.  terminal :

                sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
                sudo apt-get install libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri

     restart.

7.  we have to configure xorg now .(first backup your xorg ! )
     in terminal :

                sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg 
                sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

     now replace your xorg.conf with the one below 


##########################################
## xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Module"
Load "i2c"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M6 LY"
Busid "PCI:1:0:0"
Driver "radeon"
Option "AGPSize" "32"
Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "on"
Option "AGPMode" "4"
Option "AGPFastWrite" "on"
Option "DisableGLXRootClipping" "on"
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "on"
Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "on"
Option "EnablePageFlip" "on"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M6 LY"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 16
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
Inputdevice "Generic Keyboard"
Inputdevice "Configured Mouse"
Inputdevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
option "AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
#######################################

      now safe > exit > restart your computer

 8.   in terminal :

                      sudo glxinfo | grep direct

      output should be 
                      &#8220;direct rendering: Yes&#8221;
      if it is "yes" then you did everything right !!!
      if not - STOP , don't go any further . check if you did everything right .
 

 9. now we have to configure compiz
    system > preferences > appearance   set visual effects to "none"
    in terminal :
                       
                       sudo apt-get autoremove compiz

 10.install compiz-fusion 
       first in terminal :

                       sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list

       at the  bottom of the list add this lines :
 
            deb [http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb](http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb) feisty eyecandy
            deb-src [http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb](http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb) feisty eyecandy  

       again in terminal type :

                       sudo apt-get update 
                       sudo wget [http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb/DD800CD9.gpg](http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb/DD800CD9.gpg) -O- | sudo apt-key add -
 
11.    sudo apt-get install compiz compiz-gnome 
       sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager 
       sudo apt-get install compiz-fusion-* emerald-themes
 
12.    sudo apt-get install git git-core compiz-dev 
       git-clone git://anongit.opencompositing.org/users/crdlb/fusion-icon
       cd fusion-icon 
       make 
       sudo make install 
 
13.   YOU ARE ALMOST FINISHED !!!   
       now you have to add fusion-icon which you just have installed to sturtup     
       system > preferences > sessions    click "add"  and in "command" line add "fusion-icon" 
       AND NOW YOU ARE FINISHED . JUST RESTART YOUR BEAUTIFUL X31 AND YOU WILL SEE FUSION ICON ON THE PANEL .. JUST RIGHT CLICK ON IT AND YOU WILL BE ABLE TO CHANGE YOUR BEAUTIFUL HARDY DESKTOPS WINDOW MANAGER TO COMPIZ !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
       
happy compizing :)

---

### Post by bchapman on 2008-11-11
Thanks! This was very helpful! For those folks who want to be able to click and scroll using the pointing stick, you could add this to the xorg.conf:[INDENT]
Option        "EmulateWheel"          "true"
Option        "EmulateWheelButton"    "2"[/INDENT]This needs to go in the InputDevice section of the xorg.conf.

EDIT: 1/2009 - xorg.conf no longer controls settings like this. You will need to edit one of the XML files that is read by HAL. See this post for a suggested configuration: [http://oprisan.wordpress.com/2008/11/02/ubuntu-810-middle-button-scrolling-for-ibm-lapotops-trackpoints/](http://oprisan.wordpress.com/2008/11/02/ubuntu-810-middle-button-scrolling-for-ibm-lapotops-trackpoints/)

---

### Post by Rogbert on 2009-01-09
Has anyone made this work on 8.10 Intrepid Ibex?  I just upgraded and love it, but my frame rate is too slow to do much with compiz.

---

### Post by vtdstein95 on 2009-01-10
Confirming this method works fine on a Thinkpad T42 with ATI Radeon Mobility Firegl 9000 (RV250).  Compiz worked wonderfully in Gusty.  I have been running Hardy for 6+ months now without compiz, util I tried this guide.  

Thank You!!

---

### Post by Rogbert on 2009-01-11
hmmm...ran it on my x31 and speeds up the framerate, etc. but then i lose my window decorations (title bars), my awn dock and my screenlets (all white).  Restore my xorg and back to normal.  Can get compiz working like this but REALLY painfully slow.  Any good ideas out there?

---

### Post by Dr.Suave on 2009-02-24
I tried this with Intrepid, and lost my window decorations and some desktop functionality when I enabled Compiz using the compiz icon. If anyone else tries this tutorial, I would test to see if it works by pressing alt+f2 and entering "fusion-icon" before carrying out step 13. If compiz breaks your desktop, you can just ctrl+alt+backspace, and everything will be ok again.

---

### Post by dreamylinux on 2009-07-18
maybe you whould like to check this out: its mentioning about hyperz, hyperz is for accellaration
 
 "..Radeon LE- Radeon "Light Edition". I'm not sure if that is really what LE stands for, but that's what most people claim. Not officially manufactured by ATI, but instead by a partner company. There are no ATI logos on the card (just blank white spaces where they would be). Nonetheless, it is a Radeon card and uses the same drivers as all other cards. By default Hyper-Z is disabled on this card, but all you have to do to reenable it is download a registry tweaker (or just tweak the registry directly). It is also clocked lower at 143/143 MHz, BUT the memory is the same so you can clock it back up to 185 MHz or so with no problems. This card is available for around $80 and runs as fast as the GF2 GTS. The best buy for your money!
.."
here is the link, it says alot of things
 
[http://www.ocforums.com/showthread.php?t=9641](http://www.ocforums.com/showthread.php?t=9641)

---

### Post by pirmas on 2009-11-07
[SIZE=2]Hello, everyone, 

I'm new here, so sorry for any mistakes I would probably make when participating in this forum.

I'm coming straight to the point:

Today I have installed ubuntu 9.10. And by default there was set "normal" visual effects option, which was n [/SIZE] [SIZE=2]ot, quite good, for my ibm x31 video card (ATI Mobility RADEON M6C-16h - the same as m6 LY mentioning in this topic). The screen was pixelated, etc. I had turned off those effects, but the problem was not fully solved. Here's what I mean:

[/SIZE]  [SIZE=2][IMG]http://img36.imageshack.us/img36/2320/systemmonitor.png[/IMG]
That's how system monitor windows looks like.

And google earth:

[IMG]http://img266.imageshack.us/img266/6540/screenshotgoogleearth.png[/IMG]

nice, right?

However, there no any other problems, the system is really fast, there's no lag, etc. just those problems that I mentioned above.

Can anyone tell me where should I start solving the problem? what's the first step? modifying xorg.conf? But I'm afraid not to "modify" too much... I could post any log files, or mentioned xorg.conf, or any other, if that would help to solve the problem.

I'm in love with the new ubuntu, and don't wanna stay with this issue ;)

Thanks in advance for a help![/SIZE]

---

### Post by pirmas on 2009-11-08
Can I have anybody's attention here? Or is it very complicated thing to fix? :(

---

### Post by killerbeesateme on 2009-11-08
> **pirmas said:**
> [SIZE=2]Hello, everyone, 

I'm new here, so sorry for any mistakes I would probably make when participating in this forum.

I'm coming straight to the point:

Today I have installed ubuntu 9.10. And by default there was set "normal" visual effects option, which was n [/SIZE] [SIZE=2]ot, quite good, for my ibm x31 video card (ATI Mobility RADEON M6C-16h - the same as m6 LY mentioning in this topic). The screen was pixelated, etc. I had turned off those effects, but the problem was not fully solved. Here's what I mean:

[/SIZE]  [SIZE=2][IMG]http://img36.imageshack.us/img36/2320/systemmonitor.png[/IMG]
That's how system monitor windows looks like.

And google earth:

[IMG]http://img266.imageshack.us/img266/6540/screenshotgoogleearth.png[/IMG]

nice, right?

However, there no any other problems, the system is really fast, there's no lag, etc. just those problems that I mentioned above.

Can anyone tell me where should I start solving the problem? what's the first step? modifying xorg.conf? But I'm afraid not to "modify" too much... I could post any log files, or mentioned xorg.conf, or any other, if that would help to solve the problem.

I'm in love with the new ubuntu, and don't wanna stay with this issue ;)

Thanks in advance for a help![/SIZE]

I have an X32, and had the same problem with NX Client from NoMachine, and the right click menu in Firefox.  I didn't have an xorg.conf from the default install, so I just made one with the same contents as the first post suggested.  I rebooted, and enabled "Normal Effects" and so far I haven't had any glitches and my NX Client runs without a hitch.

Arch linux pushed an x server update that caused this same behavior about 1-2 weeks ago so to me it seems like something changed upstream requiring a reworking of the xorg.conf.  I wish I found this before switching from Arch to Ubuntu so I could find the magic lines in the config file that fixed this.

---

### Post by pirmas on 2009-11-08
> **killerbeesateme said:**
> I have an X32, and had the same problem with NX Client from NoMachine, and the right click menu in Firefox.  I didn't have an xorg.conf from the default install, so I just made one with the same contents as the first post suggested.  I rebooted, and enabled "Normal Effects" and so far I haven't had any glitches and my NX Client runs without a hitch.

Arch linux pushed an x server update that caused this same behavior about 1-2 weeks ago so to me it seems like something changed upstream requiring a reworking of the xorg.conf.  I wish I found this before switching from Arch to Ubuntu so I could find the magic lines in the config file that fixed this.

Thank you for your reply. I've been reading forums/other tutorials, and experimenting the whole day today, aand...well, finally noticed, that my xorg.conf has gone :shock: the X11 just didn't inclue xorg.conf...and as you said, than I made it on my own, by pasting the mentioned contents from this topic...and nothing changed actually. The results are the same as I posted screenshots early (when effects are turned off), BUT when I turned on effects to "normal" option, the effects started to work without crash (just after ubuntu install yesterday, effects were also ok, but the system crashed for a few times, forcing me to turn off those effects). However, Now I write with enabled effects, but still there are some glitches:

[IMG]http://img42.imageshack.us/img42/9514/screenshotubuntuforumsr.png[/IMG]
As you see - there are visual stripes on firefox, as on any other program or folder.

[IMG]http://img194.imageshack.us/img194/9532/20091109.jpg[/IMG]

..And when started the video test - the results are also "striped".

Didn't try google earth, because had uninstalled it, but I guess nothing would have changed.

Conclusion? Buy new hardware? netbook maybe? I lost my last hope to repair this :frown:

---

### Post by Prosthetic Head on 2009-11-08
I have exactly this problem on an X32, the most annoying feature is the heavy striping on video playback.. If i ever find a solution then i will post back here but I've been trying for a while so don't hold your breath. 

Anyone else can help us? A lot of people still have these great little laptops and this pretty much rules out any serious use of ubuntu. This would be great to get fixed.. I'm willing to put in some time and effort but beyond what I have already tried I don't know where to start.

---

### Post by pirmas on 2009-11-09
> **Prosthetic Head said:**
> I have exactly this problem on an X32, the most annoying feature is the heavy striping on video playback.. If i ever find a solution then i will post back here but I've been trying for a while so don't hold your breath. 

Anyone else can help us? A lot of people still have these great little laptops and this pretty much rules out any serious use of ubuntu. This would be great to get fixed.. I'm willing to put in some time and effort but beyond what I have already tried I don't know where to start.

Ah, right, just noticed that when watching video - the active display zone is also striped as in my test screenshot.

Anyway, I think it's Kernel's problem, because when I encountered the first crash, the error message included "kernel" term... Sadly our ibm hardware is quite old and I think it will be difficult to find the solution... :roll:

---

### Post by foureyesboy on 2009-11-11
> **pirmas said:**
> [SIZE=2]Hello, everyone, 

I'm new here, so sorry for any mistakes I would probably make when participating in this forum.

I'm coming straight to the point:

Today I have installed ubuntu 9.10. And by default there was set "normal" visual effects option, which was n [/SIZE] [SIZE=2]ot, quite good, for my ibm x31 video card (ATI Mobility RADEON M6C-16h - the same as m6 LY mentioning in this topic). The screen was pixelated, etc. I had turned off those effects, but the problem was not fully solved. Here's what I mean:

[/SIZE]  [SIZE=2][IMG]http://img36.imageshack.us/img36/2320/systemmonitor.png[/IMG]
That's how system monitor windows looks like.

And google earth:

[IMG]http://img266.imageshack.us/img266/6540/screenshotgoogleearth.png[/IMG]

nice, right?

However, there no any other problems, the system is really fast, there's no lag, etc. just those problems that I mentioned above.

Can anyone tell me where should I start solving the problem? what's the first step? modifying xorg.conf? But I'm afraid not to "modify" too much... I could post any log files, or mentioned xorg.conf, or any other, if that would help to solve the problem.

I'm in love with the new ubuntu, and don't wanna stay with this issue ;)

Thanks in advance for a help![/SIZE]

Pirmas, did you say Visual Effects option has been set to Normal?

I have Radeon Mobility M6 on my X22 too and experience the same problem and we have some discussion here at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1285406](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1285406)

Basically, if Visual Effects was turned on, this "pixelated" problem is not observed.

But if Visual Effects can't be turned on, then one last resource is to use the vesa driver instead.  Please refer to that thread for details.

Hope this may help.

---

### Post by pcblues on 2009-11-17
Hi there. 

I have this card in an old Dell c610.
I fixed it by following the directions in this link down to the end of step 8.

[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=899178"]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=899178
[/URL]
/etc/X11/xorg.conf didn't exist for my installation of U910 so I just created it and copied the config in, rebooted and it worked.
 
Then I set the Appearance settings to Extra and all font/graphic corruption problems went away.
I had them in Wine, the Notification windows, the Activity Monitor and Open Office.

Cheers,

Mark

---

### Post by Vinnie V on 2010-02-05
> **pcblues said:**
> Hi there. 

I have this card in an old Dell c610.
I fixed it by following the directions in this link down to the end of step 8.

[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=899178"]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=899178
[/URL]
/etc/X11/xorg.conf didn't exist for my installation of U910 so I just created it and copied the config in, rebooted and it worked.
 
Then I set the Appearance settings to Extra and all font/graphic corruption problems went away.
I had them in Wine, the Notification windows, the Activity Monitor and Open Office.

Cheers,

Mark

I am glad that I read all the way to the end of the thread before starting this process. I also have a C610, and was also able to stop at step 8. Question though...is compiz an unnecessary program for this configuration, or just not now? I only set my Appearance settings to Normal.

---

