---
title: "Monitor and Projector Problem"
date: 2010-03-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by deraj12 on 2010-03-03
Hello friends!  I have a desktop computer with a GeForce 8400 GS card connected to one monitor and a projector.  The projector is configured as an extended desktop.  I recently updated from 9.04 to 9.10.  Now the projector is not recognized as a display.  My temporary workaround has been to connect a dell monitor and use Nvidia-settings manager to configure it.  Once the settings are saved to the xorg file, I reboot, while keeping the dell monitor plugged in, which works.  After the reboot, I unplug the dell and plug in the projector, which works flawlessly.  Then on next reboot, the projector is not recognized and I have to start the whole process over.
The projector always worked before the upgrade.  Is there some xorg magic I can work to force the use of the projector?  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by deraj12 on 2010-03-03
Here is my xorg file.



# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer P191W"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +1440+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "1440x900 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1440x900 +0+0, CRT: 1024x768 +1440+0; DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT: nvidia-auto-select +1440+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

