---
title: "Ubuntu 9.10 Radeon 9250 Help"
date: 2010-02-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by DonutFUN on 2010-02-11
I have been experimenting with Linux as of late, but my only problem is that I can't get my main video card to work, When I boot it just won't load at all. ( I may have actaly completely screwed up the xorg.conf by this point, but i can just reinstall quickly if need be, i may need to for other reasons anyways).
I have an Ubuntu 9.04 CD and have updated to 9.10 which I would prefer to keep the most up to date version if I can.
What I've been doing to boot is switching to my on board video card every time I want to boot into Linux (dual booting XP) I have a screen plugged into both, but I really am getting tired of having to look at a screen that's about 2 feet to the right of where I'm sitting.
My hardware is
Compaq Prisario upgraded
2.5 Gb Ram
2.98 gHz Intel Pentium 4 Processor
160 gig HD + 500 gig HD
internal intel video card (128 mb ram)
Radeon 9250 (256 mb ram)
dvd, flopy, card reader, and I think that's all that's really important.

so how do I get it working? or even is there another Linux that may work with it better? (preferably installable within Windows due to the gaming I do I cannot lose windows, and can't format my other HD because I have stuff on it I can't lose)

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2010-02-11
If you do a complete reinstall can you use the video card?

---

### Post by DonutFUN on 2010-02-11
No, I've tried booting from a live CD, and I've had to reinstall it before and it didn't work.

Just so you know since I am going to have to reinstall it I'll actually be installing Kubuntu instead (I think), but from what I've found the Radeon 9250 just doesn't work with any Linux on its own.
:popcorn:

---

### Post by DonutFUN on 2010-02-12
I have installed Kubuntu now and the radeon video card still isn't working...

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2010-02-12
Ok go to your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and post it here.

---

### Post by DonutFUN on 2010-02-13
I'm sorry for taking so long to answer, I did install Kubuntu and tried the EnvyNG thing to install the ATI drivers, now it won't boot again, and I don't quite have time to reinstall it immediately, I usually have busy weekends, especially considering its Valentines day tomorrow, so I will reinstall it right away when I have a chance, also my internet has been going off at random for long periods of time at my house for some reason, so again I may not be able to, but I'll describe what happens more:
When I boot with my onboard intell video card I can boot just fine, but it only let's me choose 800X600, or 640X480, and when I try to boot with my radeon video card it hangs at a screen with the Kubuntu symbol, and when I press alt+F1 and it gets like a green line across it and just stays like that.

 But i will reinstall as soon as I can and report back here
Thank you for trying to help. 
Now back to my weekend!! :popcorn:

---

### Post by DonutFUN on 2010-02-15
So I've had a long day of trying to get it working, with other things, I laded up my Kubuntu, and it couldn't even find the xorg, so then i reinstalled Ubuntu and had to leave before I had a chance. I may be able to fit it in tonight, or tomorrow.

---

### Post by DonutFUN on 2010-02-16
Ok I finally got it up and running on Ubuntu 9.10, the Video still only lets me go to 800X600 on my onboard video card still, and doesn't work with the Radeon, so here is the xorg:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2010-02-16
Make the following section look like this, then try your card again......
```

Section "Device"
    Identifier          "Configured Video Device"
    Driver               "ati"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by DonutFUN on 2010-02-17
Now it still doesn't work on my video card, still locks up, and then when I try with the on-board video card it says its running in low graphic mode error

---

### Post by jocko on 2010-02-17
> **DonutFUN said:**
> ...I did install Kubuntu and tried the EnvyNG thing to install the ATI drivers, now it won't boot again...

Your card is not supported by ati's proprietary driver (fglrx). The last driver that supported it was released in august 2006, and that will not work on any current linux distro.

The open source driver (radeon) should work well with your card, and you should have to do exactly nothing to get it working on a fresh install.
But if you have messed things up by trying to install fglrx, you need to remove every last trace of it and probably reinstall a few packages that have files that were overwritten or diverted by the fglrx installation, otherwise you'll probably just going to be able to use the "safe graphics mode" (= vesa driver).

If you don't get the open source driver working in a fresh install of (k)ubuntu (or after you have completely removed fglrx), I'm sure people here are able to help you if you provide some more information. One thing that will probably help is a copy of your /var/log/Xorg.0.log (taken directly from a failed attempt to start xorg).

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2010-02-17
Try changing it to this.

```
Section "Device"
            Identifier                 "Configured Video Device"
            Driver                      "radeon"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2010-02-17
Oh and make sure you have the driver installed.  Do this...........

```
 sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-radeon & sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-ati
```

---

### Post by DonutFUN on 2010-02-17
alright, I tried the ati, and the radeon, neither of them worked, what they do is still just the same, it just wont let me get past the splash screen, I see the ubuntu symbol, and then nothing, if I press alt+F1 it gets a green and blue line across it.
here's the log file: and by the way, I looked there and both the driver's are actually there, there just not loading


X.Org X Server 1.6.4
Release Date: 2009-9-27
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
Build Operating System: Linux 2.6.24-23-server i686 Ubuntu
Current Operating System: Linux ubuntu 2.6.31-19-generic #56-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jan 28 01:26:53 UTC 2010 i686
Kernel command line: root=UUID=566C46136C45EDF5 loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro quiet splash 
Build Date: 14 November 2009  05:48:26PM
xorg-server 2:1.6.4-2ubuntu4.1 (buildd@) 
    Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
    to make sure that you have the latest version.
Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
    (++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
    (WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Wed Feb 17 09:38:57 2010
(==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
(==) No Layout section.  Using the first Screen section.
(**) |-->Screen "Default Screen" (0)
(**) |   |-->Monitor "Configured Monitor"
(**) |   |-->Device "Configured Video Device"
(==) Automatically adding devices
(==) Automatically enabling devices
(WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic" does not exist.
    Entry deleted from font path.
(==) FontPath set to:
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/misc,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi,
    /var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType,
    built-ins
(==) ModulePath set to "/usr/lib/xorg/modules"
(II) Cannot locate a core pointer device.
(II) Cannot locate a core keyboard device.
(II) The server relies on HAL to provide the list of input devices.
    If no devices become available, reconfigure HAL or disable AllowEmptyInput.
(II) Loader magic: 0x3bc0
(II) Module ABI versions:
    X.Org ANSI C Emulation: 0.4
    X.Org Video Driver: 5.0
    X.Org XInput driver : 4.0
    X.Org Server Extension : 2.0
(II) Loader running on linux
(++) using VT number 7

(--) PCI:*(0:0:2:0) 8086:2582:103c:2a08 Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller rev 4, Mem @ 0xbfe80000/524288, 0xc0000000/268435456, 0xbfe40000/262144, I/O @ 0x0000bc00/8
(--) PCI: (0:2:3:0) 1002:5960:1002:2002 ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 PRO] rev 1, Mem @ 0xd0000000/134217728, 0xbffd0000/65536, I/O @ 0x0000e000/256, BIOS @ 0x????????/131072
(II) Open ACPI successful (/var/run/acpid.socket)
(II) System resource ranges:
    [0] -1    0    0xffffffff - 0xffffffff (0x1) MX[B]
    [1] -1    0    0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
    [2] -1    0    0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
    [3] -1    0    0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
    [4] -1    0    0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
    [5] -1    0    0x00000000 - 0x00000000 (0x1) IX[B]
(II) LoadModule: "extmod"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libextmod.so
(II) Module extmod: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.4, module version = 1.0.0
    Module class: X.Org Server Extension
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension MIT-SCREEN-SAVER
(II) Loading extension XFree86-VidModeExtension
(II) Loading extension XFree86-DGA
(II) Loading extension DPMS
(II) Loading extension XVideo
(II) Loading extension XVideo-MotionCompensation
(II) Loading extension X-Resource
(II) LoadModule: "dbe"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libdbe.so
(II) Module dbe: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.4, module version = 1.0.0
    Module class: X.Org Server Extension
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension DOUBLE-BUFFER
(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so
(II) Module glx: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.4, module version = 1.0.0
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(==) AIGLX enabled
(II) Loading extension GLX
(II) LoadModule: "record"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//librecord.so
(II) Module record: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.4, module version = 1.13.0
    Module class: X.Org Server Extension
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension RECORD
(II) LoadModule: "dri"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libdri.so
(II) Module dri: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.4, module version = 1.0.0
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension XFree86-DRI
(II) LoadModule: "dri2"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libdri2.so
(II) Module dri2: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.4, module version = 1.1.0
    ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 2.0
(II) Loading extension DRI2
(II) LoadModule: "ati"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//ati_drv.so
(II) Module ati: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.4, module version = 6.12.99
    Module class: X.Org Video Driver
    ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 5.0
(EE) No drivers available.

Fatal server error:
no screens found

Please consult the The X.Org Foundation support 
     at [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
 for help. 
Please also check the log file at "/var/log/Xorg.0.log" for additional information.

 ddxSigGiveUp: Closing log

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2010-02-17
You may not be able to get that card working.  Post your edited xorg file again.

---

### Post by DonutFUN on 2010-02-18
it's exactly the same, i just added the driver, it still didn't work.
from what I understand old Linux may be able to run it easly do it, so is there an old one that I may be able to try instead? i would have to install from inside windows.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2010-02-18
Well you could try an older ubuntu.  Maybe something like 8.04 or 8.10

---

