---
title: "12.04 - Nvidia gt 610 - XBMC"
date: 2012-08-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by crwchf505 on 2012-08-09
I recently installed a Nvidia Geforce gt 610 in my HTPC running 12.04. I have searched and followed the directions for installer the drivers. When I did install them, I rebooted the system and the resolution increased drastically (originally the screen size was smaller than my tv with the HDMI plugged into my ASrock A75m). Now, the HDMI cord is still plugged into the motherboards HDMI output because I dont get a signal when its plugged into the video card ( I assumed the HDMI for the video card was something I had to turn on in the settings after installions). I installed the card and selected it in the additional drivers menu and I have a green dot indicating that it is being used. When I try and run nvidia X server settings it says "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file...". I searched this term and came up with some posts and followed those instructions but I continue to get the same error. I figured the hell with it, if the driver menu is telling me that the graphics card is being used then I can continue to use the HDMI output of the motherboard and see if it all still works. Now when I try and run XBMC it says i need accelerated OpenGL rendering, please install graphics driver. 

Im completely new at all of this, Ive kind of hacked my way through everything to get the system up and running and just recently decided to add the video card to give the system a little extra kick.

My questions are this:
1) How the heck do i get the x server settings working?? ( I have closed the x server and tried installing the nvidia drivers from the website and that didnt work)
2) How do i fix the OpenGl error?? (or are the Nvidia drivers simply not isntalled correctly and the opengl error will go away when it is installed correctly)

I appreciate your help greatly!!

---

### Post by frawau on 2012-08-20
Better late than never :)

I would suggest you look into the BIOS. There may be a way to set the PCI card to be the default display.

Hope this helps
     François

---

