---
title: "11.04 on Thinkpad Edge E420s"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by JLinden on 2011-04-28
Hi!

I recieved my Lenovo Thinkpad Edge E420s laptop yesterday, and immediately installed Ubuntu 11.04 Beta 2 on it. It worked perfectly until I tried playing some games.

The ones I tried include Trine, World of Goo and Extreme Tux Racer.
I had no problems installing them, but actually playing them was not really possible.

They all started, but Trine's main menu slowly faded into a white screen with only the logo visible, forcing me to reboot my computer.

The two other games looked great, and worked, apart from the fact that they froze every two seconds or so.

I've tried both with the proprietary FGLRX driver (which results in Unity not working), and browsing the web for solutions.

Purging FGLRX did not help, and niether did changing any compiz settings.

The specs for my laptop are as follows:

Intel Core i5 2410M 2,3 GHz Dual Core
4 GB DDR3 SDRAM
AMD Radeon HD 6630M 2GB
Ubuntu 11.04 64-bit

Would any kind person have some good advice for me? I'm clueless what to do. Thank you!

---

### Post by Havel on 2011-04-28
This might help:

[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/04/amd-ati-release-catalyst-11-4-driver/](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/04/amd-ati-release-catalyst-11-4-driver/)

I am waiting for the same machine, exept I chose the HD intel graphic card.

Do you have any other problem?

---

### Post by JLinden on 2011-04-29
I've tried the Catalyst 11.4 driver without success. It seems to install just fine but it does not affect any gaming performance.

Should I edit som xorg settings for it to work?

The laptop works great except for these graphic issues, which you might avoid with the Intel card. I haven't tried bluetooth, the webcam, fingerprint reader or mic, but a bluetooth indicator appears in the panel.

Anyway, I think you did a good choise buying it :)

---

### Post by Havel on 2011-04-29
I got it today...with the Intel HD graphics card. Everything seems to work out of the box...sound, webcam, wifi, suspend, bluetooth...
I am impressed!

---

### Post by JLinden on 2011-04-30
That's great!

I think I've found the problem now. Apparently, my computer does not only contain the Radeon HD card, the Intel card is included as well. The Intel card is probably active on my Ubuntu partition, causing the low performing graphics.

If you could do me a small favor I would be soooo grateful. If you could just install Extreme Tux Racer from the Software Center and report back if you experience the same issues as me with performance, it would answer alot of my questions.

Anyway, I'm going to investigate this now :)

---

### Post by lemuelinchrist on 2011-05-01
Hi

I just bought a laptop (Vaio S series) with the same video card as yours - AMD Radeon HD 6630M, and fglrx driver also doesnt work with it.

It looks like we'll have to wait until AMD releases the driver for our video card. that is, if ever they plan to support it :(

---

### Post by JLinden on 2011-05-01
I've looked into this and it's probably the hybrid graphics setup which is causing the performance issues.

The different solutions seems to be:
[LIST]
[*]Use VGA Switcheroo (I have yet to find out exactly how)
[*]Disable the integrated graphics in BIOS (not an option in my BIOS)
[*]Install Ubuntu Control Center and use the built in "VGA Switching". I am unable to install the application because of dependency problems (simple-ccsm). My guess is that some packages in Natty are newer and not compatible with the ones needed for UCC.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by Havel on 2011-05-01
Hybrid cards are a preoblem on linux for the moment...without solid solutions. I also bought a Dell XPS with a Nvidia hybrid card. One  solution is to find a way to turn off one of the 2 cards... What I did is just send back the machine to Dell and got refund... Unfortunately, because of non existing drivers, anyone planning on buying a machine to install Linux should avoid those hybrids.

I will get back once I try Tux racer.

---

### Post by Havel on 2011-05-01
Extreme tux racer is sluggish with the basic intel HD graphics card...Surprised. Is that game usually heavy on graphics?

---

### Post by JLinden on 2011-05-01
That's a shame. I don't know how high the graphic requirements are for Extreme Tux Racer, but I always use it to compare performance and compatibility on my computers. It's surprising either way, since I am able to run games like Trackmania United Forever on relatively high graphic settings on my Windows partition.

Now I know that my Intel card is probably active and that I have no "unique" drivers problems. Thank you so much for testing!

Unfortunately, I haven't successfully enabled neither switchable graphics or only the ATI card yet. I suppose I could wait until UCC is fully compatible with Natty, games aren't my first priority anyway. But it would be fun to get everything working.

---

### Post by Havel on 2011-05-10
I found one thing that does not work properly on my Thinkpad edge e420s with Natty. The synaptic trackpad only works with one finger. Still looking for a fix to get two figers scrolling.

---

### Post by Havel on 2011-05-19
To have fingerprint reader work, follow instructions here:

[https://launchpad.net/~fingerprint/+archive/fingerprint-gui](https://launchpad.net/~fingerprint/+archive/fingerprint-gui)

---

### Post by Havel on 2011-06-16
To have multitouch clickpad on Natty, follow instructions here:

[http://bigbrovar.aoizora.org/index.php/2011/05/24/better-clickpad-support-for-ubuntu-11-04/](http://bigbrovar.aoizora.org/index.php/2011/05/24/better-clickpad-support-for-ubuntu-11-04/)

---

### Post by Mars11 on 2011-10-23
It all works flawlessly using 11.10. I LOVE this laptop.

---

### Post by JLinden on 2011-10-23
> **Mars11 said:**
> It all works flawlessly using 11.10. I LOVE this laptop.
Are you using the E420s with hybrid graphics?

---

### Post by Mars11 on 2011-10-23
No, but I was mostly talking about the Multitouch Trackpad/Point.

---

