---
title: "10.10 on Lenovo G560 0679 99U: X Won't Start"
date: 2010-10-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by alternate9499 on 2010-10-25
Hi everybody. First time poster, long time viewer.

Used a live cd to install the 64 bit version of 10.10 on this laptop; the install went smoothly and the live cd was able to display the appropriate resolution, 1366 x 768. 

Now when the laptop boots from the hard drive, the GUI won't start. It can, however, be run in failsafe graphics mode. 

Does anybody know why this machine was able to display the appropriate resolution when booted from the live cd, but not otherwise? Does this fact point to a possible solution? 

Here's the output of lspci | grep VGA

VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by alternate9499 on 2010-10-27
Thanks to akornilov for solving this problem:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1601023](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1601023)

---

### Post by hari_home on 2010-10-27
I have exactly the same problem on ASUS K52F-BBR5 I bought from Best Buy.

[http://www.bestbuy.com/site/Asus+-+Laptop+/+Intel%26%23174%3B+Pentium%26%23174%3B+Processor+/+15.6%22+Display+/+3GB+Memory+/+320GB+Hard+Drive+-+Brown/1257145.p?skuId=1257145&id=1218243226535](http://www.bestbuy.com/site/Asus+-+Laptop+/+Intel%26%23174%3B+Pentium%26%23174%3B+Processor+/+15.6%22+Display+/+3GB+Memory+/+320GB+Hard+Drive+-+Brown/1257145.p?skuId=1257145&id=1218243226535)

It has the same Intel dual core processor and Intel Integrated graphics but Rev 18. I tried Ubuntu 10.10 32-bit and 10.10 64-bit desktop versions. Live CD shows the correct graphics. After Install I get login prompt. In safe graphics mode, the only resolution I get is 1024x768.

Any ideas? Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by alternate9499 on 2010-10-30
Hi hari_home,

If you haven't solved the problem, you need to blacklist the intel_ips module. Create a text file in /etc/modprobe.d named blacklist-intel_ips.conf containing the following single line:

blacklist intel_ips

Restart the computer and the x server should start and display the correct resolution.

Good luck,

alternate9499

---

### Post by hari_home on 2010-10-30
Thanks alternate9499.

I was desperate and I tried ubuntu 10.10 64-bit and finally tried 10.04 32-bit and that worked well. Nothing special to do other than installing adobe flash install plugin and gstreamer codecs to get youtube to work.

I am wondering if I should do a 
sudo update-manager -d
to upgrade to 10.10 and then try blacklisting 
blacklist intel_ips
as you say if it does not work.

Is there really that much difference between 10.04 and 10.10 to make it worth while to migrate and solve problems again? I am typing this message on another ubuntu laptop running 10.10. In the last 1 week, I have not noticed any difference on this machine compared to this machine running 10.04. I use Firefox, open office, vlc player, password gorilla and dropbox most of the time.

---

### Post by hari_home on 2010-10-30
Hi alternate9499.

I had some time to kill. So, I tried update-manager -d because I wanted a fall back to 10.04 and did not want to install all my apps ans user settings again. Interestingly, update-manager -d offered to install 10.10 RC1. So, I used the update manager gui and asked for normal releases. Then installed 10.10. Sure enough the same graphics problem happened. I added blacklist intel_ips to /etc/modprobe.d and re-started. Graphics worked great. Now I want to try HDMI out to TV and see what happens.

ubuntu forums rock!

---

### Post by jantab on 2010-10-31
I had the same problem with Intel integrated graphics (rev07) on my Acer 5810T. Solved it by installing an experimental kernel:
[https://launchpad.net/~kamalmostafa/+archive/linux-kamal-mjgbacklight](https://launchpad.net/~kamalmostafa/+archive/linux-kamal-mjgbacklight)
The related bug report says it works for some Lenovo models too:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/568611](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/568611)
This might help as well.

---

