---
title: "12.04/Nvidia8400GS blank screen - can't log in"
date: 2014-12-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by JimLS on 2014-12-08
I installed 12.04 with a FX5200 graphics board which worked but not that well.  I then updated the graphics to 8400GS.  Display shows bios and grub screens but then just a blank screen with a cursor in the upper left.  I tried:

apt-get purge nvidia*

and saw that 173 driver was installed.  

apt-get install nvidia-current
installed 304.  Still a blank screen.

I purged that and tried:
apt-get install nvidia-331-updates

I also ran nvidia-xconfig

still no luck.

 The last message that I can see is:  KVM disabled by BIOS

I can log in via ssh but nothing local.  What next?

Also, how do I select which output is used?  Board has VGA, HDMI and DVI.  I think HDMI would be best (for MythTV).  I would like to set settings rather than autodetect so that it is set correctly if PC boots while TV is off.

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-12-11
Hi JimLS.

Could you run these commands over ssh and post back the results (you can copy/paste the text)?
```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 vga

lsmod | grep -E 'nvidia|nouv'

xrandr
```
Regards.

---

### Post by JimLS on 2014-12-21
```
myth@jimmyth:~$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 vga
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation NV37GL [Quadro FX 330/GeForce PCX 5300] [10de:00fc] (rev a2)
        Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Device [1462:9681]
        Kernel modules: nvidia_331_updates, nouveau, nvidiafb
myth@jimmyth:~$
```

The second command returned nothing:

```
myth@jimmyth:~$ lsmod | grep -E 'nvidia|nouv'
myth@jimmyth:~$
```

Looks like I need to prevent nouveau from loading although I thought I had removed everything for that.  Will try adding nomodeset to grub.

The above may be confusing because I have the old 5200 card in now (works with old system) and I also want to use a newer 8400.  Will post back when I have a bit more time to look at this.

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-12-21
Thanks.

According to the Nvidia documentation you should use the 173.x series driver:
```
The 173.14.xx driver supports the following set of GPUs:

    NVIDIA GPU product                    Device PCI ID
    ----------------------------------    ----------------------------------
    ...
    Quadro FX 330/GeForce PCX 5300        0x00FC       
    ...

```


I would start by cleaning the house. Uninstall all Nvidia packages:
```
sudo apt-get purge nvidia-*
```
Then remove the Xorg config file (actually rename it):
```
sudo mv -iv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
```
Then reconfigure nvidia-common:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure nvidia-common
```
Then restart. Once on the desktop, install the recommended Nvidia driver, which it should be nvidia-173. If that's offered installed using the terminal:
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-173
```
Before you reboot to take effect. Create a custom Xorg config file:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```
Another reboot, will get you using the driver driver. To confirm run this command:
```
lsmod | grep nvidia
```
The output should look similar to something like:
```
nvidia              10744943  39 
drm                   303102  2 nvidia
```
Hope it helps. Let us know how it goes.
Regards

---

### Post by JimLS on 2014-12-21
I loaded the new card and installed the later drivers but still want to  use the old system until everything is running smoothly.  A bit too  complex doing both changes at once.  I will stick with the older card  and go through your steps.  Will post an update when I can run through  that in the next few days. 

Will leave the new video card for another day.

Thanks!

---

