---
title: "8.04. diNovo bluetooth keybord dosnàt work at login time"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by max5926 on 2008-05-06
Ubuntu 8.04
I substituted my wired keyboard and mouse with bluetooth Logitech diNovo Edge and HP reachargeble mouse, using a standrd bluetooth USB adapter.
All works fine while I'm logged in but keyboard and mouse didn't work after reboot, when system ask for username and password.
Anyone can help me to activate bloetooth devices in login screen?

---

### Post by TariBuntu on 2008-05-06
I've been having the same problem with my DiNovo+MX1000 since Gutsy. The only thing I can do is to unplug, then replug the bluetooth dongle, then all is well. And do that at every login...:(

---

### Post by max5926 on 2008-05-07
Thanks TariBuntu.
I think something can be done in /etc/X11/xorg.conf, but I don't know what exactly have to do.
I think can be useful adding a "Input device" section for each bluetooth device, but all I find in these forums is about older ubuntu version, nothing about 8.04.

---

### Post by th00ht on 2008-09-20
Sorry for the intrusion. Is your keyboard working in the BIOS? Mine is. The keyboard is also working fine under Vista with and without the fancy Logitech software. Yes I read the threads about change a configurtion file but that is kind of hard without a keyboard...

I glimsed the problem with the live Ubuntu 8.04 CD. Although it claims not to change anything and I could navigate with the keyboard in the BIOS (to select the CD as startup device) and in the Ubuntu boot menu (I could select a language and the live, do-not-touch-anything-on-my-pc setting from the menu). After realizing that the keyboard stopped working in Ubuntu itself I could only hit the powerbutton to reboot. After that the keyboard did not work under Vista anymore until after a reconnect.

Is there a boot string that can prevent ubuntu to touch anything on a working keyboard setting? It seems a bit overkill to fumble with obscure configuration files just to stop Ubuntu from messing with a setup that works.

---

### Post by itachiniko on 2008-12-03
The keyboard works everywhere else, BIOS, GRUB, Windows...it just does not work once you hit the Ububtu login screen. I have been using this keyboard on Ubuntu since 6.10 and I have had to reconnect the reciever and re-sync at EVERY reboot. I have used both XP/Ubuntu and Vista/Ubuntu configurations. If anyone can get a fix for this it would make all us Edge users very happy!

---

### Post by itachiniko on 2008-12-03
Seems that i found a fix guys. Have a look.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=295735&page=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=295735&page=4)

---

