---
title: "9.04 under VMWare XP - no drives detected"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ballistyx on 2009-10-29
Apologies if already discussed, but in all my searching I found 'similar' problems but nothing matching mine, or no solutions at least.
XP Pro, G/byte GA-M61PME-S2 running VMWare w/ Ubuntu 9.04 virtual app.

All running fine so far, but no sign of my existing HDDs:
80GB Seagate SATA (2 partitions) & 500GB Seagate SATA.
It is kind enough to recognise my CloneDVD drive though!

Obviously, as a virtual app, I can't make any changes to the boot I guess, and I'd rather not go fooling with the BIOS if I can help it.
I did find a guide at [psychocats.net]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows") but NTFS Configuration still didn't pick it up.
[http://johnson-yip.com]("http://johnson-yip.com/mountntfsfatpartitionubuntu") gave me Terminal instructions but still no joy. **fdisk -l** shows a drive (I assume C: ) but when I try **mount -t ntfs etc** I'm told there is no valid NTFS signature.

I'll try to post the exact results later (using other PC now and can't wake the missus!) but even though I have copied and saved the Terminal response, I have no idea where I could find the text file once back in XP! Being virtual, does it even save files normally?

No big deal I suppose if it's a hassle to get working - I just thought it'd be nice to try and familiarise myself with linux without a reboot hence the VMWare. I just won't play my music or videos or use my existing files etc. . .

---

### Post by ballistyx on 2009-10-30
Nope, no responses - not even any views on this question. Oh well, I'll post the Terminal stuff anyway . . .

vadmin@vadmin:~$ sudo mkdir -p /media/c
vadmin@vadmin:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 26.8 GB, 26843545600 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 3263 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000a7a6d

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        3123    25085466   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            3124        3263     1124550    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            3124        3263     1124518+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
vadmin@vadmin:~$ sudo mount -t ntfs -o nls=utf8,umask=0222 /dev/sda1 /media/c
NTFS signature is missing.
Failed to mount '/dev/sda1': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sda1' doesn't seem to have a valid NTFS.
Maybe the wrong device is used? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/sda, not /dev/sda1)? Or the other way around?
vadmin@vadmin:~$ 

Any takers?

---

### Post by ballistyx on 2009-11-01
lspci returns:
```
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 440BX/ZX/DX - 82443BX/ZX/DX Host bridge (rev 01)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 440BX/ZX/DX - 82443BX/ZX/DX AGP bridge (rev 01)
00:07.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ISA (rev 08)
00:07.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 IDE (rev 01)
00:07.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 USB
00:07.3 Bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ACPI (rev 08)
00:0f.0 VGA compatible controller: VMware Inc Abstract SVGA II Adapter
00:10.0 SCSI storage controller: LSI Logic / Symbios Logic 53c1030 PCI-X Fusion-MPT Dual Ultra320 SCSI (rev 01)
00:11.0 PCI bridge: VMware Inc PCI bridge (rev 02)
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] 79c970 [PCnet32 LANCE] (rev 10)
02:01.0 Multimedia audio controller: Ensoniq ES1371 [AudioPCI-97] (rev 02)
02:02.0 USB Controller: VMware Inc Abstract USB2 EHCI Controller
02:03.0 System peripheral: VMware Inc Virtual Machine Communication Interface (rev 10)

```

so there's actually no SATA driver available, only IDE?

Ideas please? :)

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2009-11-01
If I'm reading your post correctly VMWare is working as it should. You made a Virtual image and specified a HD size on creation, that is the "drive" you can see. I'm not certain, but I don't think you can mount your NTFS partitions from within VMWare.

A safe and easy way to "Try Out" Ubuntu, is to download 9.10, burn the image to a disk and do a wubi install in windows XP, this has worked very well for me in the past and has no noticeable performance hits.

---

### Post by ballistyx on 2009-11-04
> **JBAlaska said:**
> If I'm reading your post correctly VMWare is working as it should. You made a Virtual image and specified a HD size on creation, that is the "drive" you can see. I'm not certain, but I don't think you can mount your NTFS partitions from within VMWare.

A safe and easy way to "Try Out" Ubuntu, is to download 9.10, burn the image to a disk and do a wubi install in windows XP, this has worked very well for me in the past and has no noticeable performance hits.

OK, thanks JB. I never actually specified a drive, but I guess the ubuntu.vmx did on its own.
Pity if what you say about not being able to mount my partitions inside the VM is accurate, as I was looking forward to seeing my music files etc!

I'm happy enough to dual-boot it, but if I do want to jump to ubuntu in a hurry, the VM is way quicker than a reboot. I just can't really do much once I'm loaded obviously :S

---

