---
title: "12.04 Wacom dual monitor problems"
date: 2012-05-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Velvet Karuda Leopard on 2012-05-27
Ok.  I have a fresh install of 12.04.

I have dual monitors running with nvidia card and drivers.

I have a Wacom Bamboo and pen.

I am running Twinview and Xinerama.

Everything seems to be working fine with the graphics without issues save for one.

My tablet streches across the entirety of both screens, making it neigh imppossible to use the tanlet ifficiently.

I have tried many things, but nothing.  The "stick" wacom settings app on 12.04 does nothing due to the nvidia drivers.

I NEED this to work to get my bussiness back up and running.

Wacom's site is of no help so far.

I can provide any info upon request.

Thanks for your time.

---

### Post by Favux on 2012-05-27
Hi Velvet Karuda Leopard,

I was wondering if the GNOME Wacom Graphics Tablet applet's monitor setting was working.  Apparently not, at least for a Bamboo Pen with TwinView.  Xinerama?

I don't quite understand that but maybe it is because the Pen isn't in libwacom yet.

Anyway Twinview has beens supported by MapToOutput for a little while now.  So use that xsetwacom Parameter.  See:  [http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/linuxwacom/index.php?title=Dual_and_Multi-Monitor_Set_Up](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/linuxwacom/index.php?title=Dual_and_Multi-Monitor_Set_Up)

---

### Post by bogglesanchez on 2012-06-05
Hi Favux,
I have dual monitors and an Nvidia graphics card.

Using the handy link you provided I was able to get my Wacom bamboo tablet to work on one of my monitors as desired, rather than stretching across the two.

```
xinput
```Gave me a list of devices, from which I found "Wacom Bamboo1 stylus"

```
 xsetwacom set "Wacom Bamboo1 stylus" MapToOutput HEAD-1"
```Set my wacom device to work with my second monitor. (I could have specified HEAD-0 for my first monitor).

Thanks very much

---

### Post by Favux on 2012-06-05
Hi bogglesanchez,

Welcome to Ubuntu forums!

Good deal!  :)

---

