---
title: "8.10 - Display dims to unseeable?"
date: 2009-05-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by DemiReticent on 2009-05-21
I was using my Ubuntu laptop today and started messing around with some settings in the GUI windows. I think whatever I did was in the battery menu....

Anyway now about two minutes after I boot into ubuntu the screen starts to dim over about a minute until there is absolutely zero backlighting. I can't see anything but I can tell the screen is still on because I can see the outlines of the windows and I can interact with the computer in a limited sense but I can't see anything.

I have school project files on the computer so this is really urgent I need to be able to do my homework...how can i return this to normal?

If it helps I was trying to change a setting that auto-dims the screen while I'm working. I had noticed that the screen gets randomly brighter and darker while I'm using it. Using the hardware brightness controls (Fn+up,Fn+down) does not affect the screen at all and does not influence this effect if the brightness is already at maximum (and trying to make it brighter). I must have moved the slider the wrong way but I can't seem to find the dialog anymore.

Anyone have any idea what's going on here?

---

[EDIT]

When I try to log out before it dims all the way I get a message saying the power manager is not responding.
Logging out stops the dim but does not restore the lighting to normal.

[EDIT2] When I log back in again it almost immediately goes dark.
Restarting the computer seems to reset the light.

---

