---
title: "11.04 quiet downloads during nighttime"
date: 2011-06-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mpw on 2011-06-27
Hello,

I have a brand new i7-2600k with semi-passiv cooled power suppy and 8 GB Ram. The loudest thing in my pc is my hdd.

Of course I could buy a ssd, but I need to storage many videos up to 1/1,5 TB. As SSD this would be quite expansive.

I'm actually looking around for ways to switch off my hdd during night. The problem is, that I want to download torrents during the night.

1.) So, first of all, I should disable logging. Is there a quicky way to completly disable any logging?

2.) I probably need the boot option "toram"? But the pc doesn't do anything than downloading...so maybe the normal cache is already enough? But can I switch off the hdd without the param toram?

3.) I probably need a ramdisk, that storages the downloads and syncs them to hdd at the morning. (just around 1 or 2 GB during the night)

But, the folder in which the torrents are stored has around 1 TB volume. I can't tell the torrent-client to have the new downloads in one folder during night an move them to another (on the hdd) at the morning.

Is there a way to increase the hdd backwrite time so much, that the download of many hours would be first stored to ram and maybe written down at the morning? Or can I tell linux to not write anything to hdd in a specified period of time? And to active the hdd only if it needs a file from hdd which is not cached?

The thing that I loose the downloads, when the systems crashes, is not important. I could recharge them.

Any ideas? What's the better way, increasing the backwrite time or using any sort of ramdisk?

Bye
MPW

---

