---
title: "11.04 install issues"
date: 2011-06-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by the wolfe on 2011-06-03
ok. So, I am trying to install 11.04 via flashdrive, but Im having some issues. I am not getting a install beside windows option on my i3 system. I thought that it may be a corrupted file on the disk, but I tried it on my gaming laptop with a Phenom 2 quad, and I got install beside right away, so that rules out corrupted files. 

Is there a compatibility issue with the HM55 chipset? thats all that I could think of, other than a bad sata connector, but it reads and writes to the windows partition fine, so that isnt an issue. The hard drive passed the manufactures test, so its a good drive. 

Does anyone have a way to do a dual boot install on this without using WUBI (need more than 30 GB of space)?

---

### Post by jonathon6017 on 2011-06-03
I'm not sure why but I had the same issue. But I went ahead and just wiped windows off of my computer, it was running slow and I was tired of having to put up with it. Now I just run Ubuntu and I'm 95% happy Most of my software dependencies have been solved by using alternative software, the only issue for me is my blackberry and one game lol. But hey that's what my mom is for ha ha :)

---

### Post by the wolfe on 2011-06-04
well, i kinda watch netflix daily, so I dont quite have a want to wipe windows. Plus its required at school.  
whats the hardware setup of yours? maybe we can find a common thread.

---

### Post by ILoveYorkies on 2011-06-05
Hi, 
You could try to install to an external hard drive ( or a flash drive like I have done ). You could either install just Grub2 bootloader to the flash or get a 64 gb thumbdrive and partition it  with Gparted from a livecd or liveusb. First  while in Windows change the thumbdrive from removeable (to write cach so you have to always use shutdown safely like when using an external hard drive). Then use a livecd choose try Ubuntu not install. If it boots okay then go to apps and pick Gparted and partition the drive giving 300mbs or less to Grub then you need a root (/) partition then  a a swapfile and a /home partition. Then use disk utility to double check which is the the dev names so you install to the correct drive so you don't overwrite your Win partitions nor it's mbr. Or you could install grub to a 4gb or less thumbdrive after partitioning your main Win partition most likely c drive, shrinking it so you can make another partition for Linux. If you do that, MAKE SURE YOU BACKUP OR COPY ALL THE DATA YOU NEED TO KEEP! Shrinking your partition with software for Win or using Gparted usually doesn't BUT IT CAN CORRUPT OR ERASE DATA!  If you IMPROPERLY INSTALL GRUB YOU COULD MESS UP Windows MBR BOOTLOADER! That's why I use flash drives and use the "other" check box instead of allowing Ubuntu to choose everything. I can then choose the devices to partition myself.  I just use the key to pause post so I can choose which drive to boot from, In my case I press Esc then F9 and it lists my Grub drive named Sandisk.So far this method has worked for me. Post back to let me know if you need more details on it. I hope this helps.

---

### Post by the wolfe on 2011-06-05
that sounds like it would be good, but I kinda dont have a 64GB flashdrive laying around to use (or external drive to be cannibalized). 
What I was mainly trying to do is to get that nice GUI slide bar to resize the partitions, because like you said manually can corrupt data. All I am looking for is a 100GB 11.04 partition, which should have been a 10 minute job, but wasnt.

---

### Post by jonathon6017 on 2011-06-05
> **the wolfe said:**
> well, i kinda watch netflix daily, so I dont quite have a want to wipe windows. Plus its required at school.  
whats the hardware setup of yours? maybe we can find a common thread.

Well I've got Ubuntu installed so that's not the issue my ONLY issue is Software dependencies like netflix but then again I only need netflix for my mom and sister but they have my mom's computer for that.

---

