---
title: "9.10 OK for older single core laptops?"
date: 2010-01-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by berniedd on 2010-01-13
I've downloaded the 9.10 version for netbooks remix and installed it in a new eMachines D725 dual core laptop with 1 GB RAM. Works beautifully, no issues yet, including the wifi. A few friends have asked me to install the same into their older laptops, none slower than 1.5 GHz. All of these are single core machines that have either 512 MB or 768 MB RAM. Will the same installer CD I had used for the D725 be OK for these older laptops? If the laptop were an Apple (PowerPC or Intel processor), what installer should I use?

---

### Post by mk1w86 on 2010-01-13
Yes, the laptop specs you mention should be fine. :D

Regarding Apple laptops, if it is an Intel Apple the normal Ubuntu disk should be fine.  If it is a PowerPC Apple the latest official Ubuntu version for PowerPC was 6.10.  There are however community supported PowerPC ports for newer versions of Ubuntu.  For more information have a look here:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPC](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPC)

---

### Post by fancypiper on 2010-01-13
The [Hardare requirements]("https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/installation-guide/i386/minimum-hardware-reqts.html") page should answer your question in detail.

I managed to install Ubuntu 9.10 on an old eMachines 1 GB CPU and 512 MB ram, so I think the answer is yes.

I have no experience with apple since the Apple IIE.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-01-13
Best bet....use the LiveCD or Live USB and see how they run. Try some apps you'll use if you permanently install if possible. If everything works, try it out. Worst case is you go back to the OS on it now if the install is quirky or not performing to your expectations.

---

