---
title: "11.10 Magic Control Technology USB to VGA dongle"
date: 2012-03-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by TheFuzz4 on 2012-03-23
Hey Everyone,

So I have searched till I can no longer search any further.  I am attempting to get 4 monitors to work with Ubuntu.  My desktop support (not linux friendly) has decided to bring me a dual head Nvidia card (which I am quite happy to have) and USB to VGA dongles.  As I am not one to give up easily I decided to start off on a quest to get the dongle to work.  I have followed several guides on the net including a bug report in launchpad for 9.04 about this.  The guide that I used for the jist of this is [here]("http://www.comerma.net/usb2vga_en.html") I have followed this to a "T" and even compiled my first kernel :guitar: but I am still not quite sure if this is the proper route for this device in 11.10.  I only say this because I came across this man page [here]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man4/umct.4freebsd.html") Which talks about enabling the umct driver.  However the man page doesn't really exactly tell me where I should enable this driver at.  It talks about the kernel configuration file but I am not sure where to locate this file at and even once I did what I would do with it.  I do appreciate your help with this and I look forward to finally having 4 monitors on my Linux box.  Also once I do get this enabled since the xorg.conf has been deprecated more or less what is the best way to get these additional screens added into my desktop.  If they have to be separate x servers thats fine with me as they will just be used for virtual box. 

Thank you very much for all of your help.

---

### Post by TheFuzz4 on 2012-03-28
bump

---

