---
title: "9.10 - suspend breaks touchpad"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Sugz on 2009-11-04
Just installed Karmic, but once i resume from suspend, the touch pad is 'frozen' ie it does not respond to any input. 

This problem was still present in Gusty, however, i am not sure of the steps i would need to take in order to provide evidence. 

Any help will be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by lightrush on 2009-11-04
Check if your notebook has an i8042 controller:
```
ls /sys/devices/platform/ | grep i8042

```
If this returns i8042 then you do have it. In that case you need to unbind the controller on suspend/hibernate and bind it on resume/thaw. This bug was fixed in Jaunty - at least for me but it appears to be live and kicking in Karmic again.

This is a script for pm-utils which will do the job stated above:
[http://sites.google.com/site/lightrush/files/01i8042?attredirects=0&d=1]("http://sites.google.com/site/lightrush/files/01i8042?attredirects=0&d=1")

Install as stated in the script.

Come back with feedback - if it works for you as well I can write a general HOWTO page for this problem.

---

### Post by Sugz on 2009-11-05
Thanks very much, I will update this post with feedback asap

---

### Post by Sugz on 2009-11-05
Just tested the above script, and unfortunately it has not worked. If anything it just wipes out my touchpad settings.

okay.. so where would be the best direction to go from here?

---

### Post by lightrush on 2009-11-05
Did you test if you have an i8042 controller prior to applying the script?
If you do not have one, then this script is rather useless to you since it targets a problem specific to that controller.

Please state here if you have i8042 or not since I consider your input as feedback for my script. Check my post above to see how to check that.

If you don't have an i8042, then you could try unloading and loading the module:
```
psmouse
```
on suspend.

To do that follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal an go to:
```
/etc/pm/config.d/
```

2. Edit the following file with your favourite text editor (you need to be root):
```
00sleep_module
```

3. Inside that file, after all lines, on a new line insert this:
```
SUSPEND_MODULES="psmouse"
```

That will make Pm-utils unload your touchpad module on suspend and load it back on resume. It may or may not help - give it a try and if it does nto help revert the changes back to normal and shout back here.
:popcorn:

---

### Post by Sugz on 2009-11-05
I can confirm that I do indeed have the i8042 module. 
- Still no luck i'm afraid

---

### Post by lightrush on 2009-11-05
Well I guess then the problem is not related to i8042 in your case. At this point I have no further information to help with. :(

---

### Post by Sugz on 2009-11-06
No problem, its probably still worth publishing your fix, because im sure it will work with most users out there. 

Does anyone else have any other suggestions?

---

### Post by valrond on 2009-11-07
Thanks. The fix worked for my Toshiba NB 200.

---

### Post by lightrush on 2009-11-09
For anyone with Intel based laptop + i8042 controller who experiences keyboard and/or touchpad freeze on resume/thaw after suspend/hibernate you can look here for more detailed HOWTO about my workaround:

[HOWTO: Fix touchpad, keyboard freeze on resume/thaw for laptops with i8042 controller]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1321032")

---

### Post by Vazovsky on 2009-11-28
I had the same problem. Touchpad doesn't respond after suspending. Output from 
```
ls /sys/devices/platform | grep i8042
```
sais that I have i8042 controller.
I fixed this issue by adding following line
```
SUSPEND_MODULES="psmouse"
```
to
```
/etc/pm/config.d/00sleep_module
```

Thanks lightrush for the suggestions!

---

### Post by Sugz on 2009-11-29
Thanks for the suggestion, unfortunately this fix did not work for me :(

---

### Post by oooh on 2009-12-07
Does the same solution apply in theory for 

HIBERNATION

?

I mean , is there a different file for the modules to load & unload for hibernation ?

---

### Post by mbishof on 2010-01-11
I just installed 9.1 and I have this same problem.  I have i8042 and neither the script fix suggested earlier in this post (nor other similar scripts) nor the 00sleep_module fix worked for me.  I do, however have some additional information to add that might shed some light on the problem. 

I installed System>Preferences>Touchpad gui application (gsynaptics)  and it works fine when my touchpad is working, however, after i suspend my computer, not only does my touchpad stop working, but when i try to open this application i get the error message: 

"GSynaptics couldn't initialize.
You have to set 'SHMConfig' 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config to use GSynaptics"

I know that setting the SHMConfig option to "on" in the touchpad section of xorg.conf was able fix this problem in past versions, but now in 9.1 our xorg.conf file is gone.  Surely, SHMConfig is properly set somehow when my computer boots because my touchpad works flawlessly.  There must be some way then to have it set properly when my computer returns from a suspend.  (preferably without resorting back to a xorg.conf file) I however, don't know how do this as I am a mere n00b.  Any insight would be appreciated and if you think making an xorg.conf file is the only solution please direct me toward instructions on how to build one from scratch.

Further information:

This problem does NOT occur if I hibernate, although i have only tested this once. 

My computer is a Gateway CX200X tablet.

---

### Post by mbishof on 2010-01-12
bump

---

### Post by oooh on 2010-02-07
Funny here ...

For me it survives after suspend, but not after hibernation ...

---

