---
title: "Intel GMA X3500 drivers?"
date: 2008-12-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ejunooni on 2008-12-20
I am looking to find out if I am using the graphics card to full potential. 

I have a Asus P5E-VM HDMI motherboard with an onboard intel GMA X3500 graphics card.


I have recently switched over to ubuntu and i am running 8.10. Everything is working fine except that i am not sure if i need to install drivers specific for this graphics card for 3D acceleration. 

I am also running windows XP on VMware WS 6.5 but when i start up windows xp i get a message saying that 3D acceleration is disabled.


Here is my xorg.conf file
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by ejunooni on 2008-12-20
Also, i have noticed that my xorg.conf file doesnt have any specific information. It seems very generic.

---

### Post by densou on 2008-12-21
yep, it is....

many distros are still unable to auto-detect Intel video cards :( 

first, update Intel driver (why using 2.4.1 when 2.5.1 is a better stable release ?):
[https://edge.launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive](https://edge.launchpad.net/~intel-gfx-testing/+archive)
(install libdrm stuff THEN intel 2.5.1)

Anyway, Intrepid works fine with a simplified xorg like this one:
[http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.3](http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.3)
I'd recommend to use it afterwards.

Also check /etc/modules [ type ' sudo gedit /etc/modules ' in a prompt window ] and add these lines if you don't see them:
agpgart
intel-agp
drm

:guitar:

P.S. run ' glxgears ' (prompt) before and after my guide ;) you must see a FPS improvment ;)

---

### Post by ejunooni on 2008-12-21
So i installed librdm and then the 2.5.1 intel driver and i also added those 3 entries to the /etc/modules file but now my FPS is about half of what it was before?

I wasnt able to open the link for your xorg.conf file.

Not sure whats going on?

---

### Post by ejunooni on 2008-12-21
So i installed librdm and then the 2.5.1 intel driver and i also added those 3 entries to the /etc/modules file but now my FPS is about half of what it was before?

I wasnt able to open the link for your xorg.conf file.

Not sure whats going on?

---

### Post by densou on 2008-12-22
here you are:
[http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new](http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new)

I hope it'll solve everything ;)

Or I'll think somethg else ;)

---

### Post by ejunooni on 2008-12-22
still getting this error message

Method Not Allowed
The requested method POST is not allowed for the URL /densou/xorg.conf.new.

---

### Post by ejunooni on 2008-12-22
was able to download the file but still same thing

getting about 150 FPS

---

### Post by ejunooni on 2008-12-26
How can i revert back to my old drivers for now?

---

### Post by ejunooni on 2008-12-29
Bump

---

### Post by densou on 2009-01-01
open the package manager 'synaptic' from menu, search for intel, scroll down until 'xserver-xorg-video-intel', select the bottom menu voice after right clicking, check the penultimate tab, select '[...]2.4.1[...]intrepid' and confirm.

Have you tried swtiching video renderer ? However it shouldn't affect 3d at all, but I noticed a small performance change when I did it.

(if you'd like to try) Add this line to xorg.conf (device section):
Option		"AccelMethod"	"EXA" 
[ "XAA" should be enabled by default, because EXA is stable but somehow considered as 'WIP' ]

---

