---
title: "8.10+Compiz on Inspiron 9300 = Dead X?"
date: 2008-12-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Stealth on 2008-12-03
Well, this is quite unfortunate. I upgrade my laptop (Inspiron 9300) to 8.10 the other day and noticed that my mouse and keyboard were being fairly unresponsive. I thought it was just a weird X fluke, but after actually using the laptop for a bit I got incredibly frustrated.

I reformatted by Ubuntu, see if I should just start fresh. So far the only thing I've installed are NVIDIA drivers (from the site) and now that Compiz was re-enabled, the same crap is happening!

Simply put, I can move the mouse, and use the touch scroll, however, clicking does nothing interesting. If I click the installer icon it highlights, but click any of the menus just seems to highlight the name, and not bring anything up. I can only launch the icons of the apps I have on my bar. I can switch terminals with the Ctrl+Alt+F# keys, but can't bring up Alt+F2 to run any commands. If I open Firefox, I can't type anything either! Please help me!

---

### Post by AliTabuger7 on 2008-12-03
So... your keyboard doesn't work?

Are any of the lights on the keyboard lit?

---

### Post by Stealth on 2008-12-03
The keyboard does work, if I flip to one of the F1-6 terminals. It doesn't work in X I guess. 

I tried on my fresh install running a Gnome Failsafe. Everything worked. I disabled Bluetooth, atd, and ampd in the Services app. I reran the default Xserver client that GDM says I normally use, and everything is back in order? We'll see how long this lasts, but has anyone else had this problem before?

---

### Post by AliTabuger7 on 2008-12-05
that sounds to me like it could be a problem with your x server.

Check /etc/X11/xorg.conf for anything about a keyboard. Perhaps the keyboard you use for some reason needs a special configuration.

---

