---
title: "14.04 VGA drivers only sometimes work (GeForce 8600M GT)"
date: 2014-07-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Exnihilation on 2014-07-22
Before I get started, I just wanted to mention that I have about one year under my belt using Linux (Lubuntu) but I am still very much a beginner when it comes to troubleshooting, so I may need a bit more verbose instructions than other more advanced users. Thanks in advance!

I have just performed a fresh install of **Lubuntu 14.04 (32-bit)** on my laptop (Compal FL90 bought in 2007) via a bootable USB stick and am having problems getting the drivers to consistantly work with my gpu:

```
**lspci | grep VGA**
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation G84M [GeForce 8600M GT] (rev a1)
```

It is worth noting that I have previously used Lubuntu 13.* without issue. 

On the first boot, with gpu defaulted to the **nouveau** drivers, I noticed that my monitor resolution was a bit off so I went to change it and noticed that the max selectable resolution was only 1024x768 where it should be 1280x800:

```
**xrandr**
xrandr: Failed to get size of gamma for output default
Screen 0: minimum 640 x 480, current 1024 x 768, maximum 1024 x 768
default connected 1024x768+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1024x768       61.0* 
   800x600        61.0  
   640x480        60.0
```

Doing a little googling, I read that the nvidia proprietary drivers may fix my problems so I added the **xorg-edgers** repository to get the latest nvidia drivers via the commands:

```
[B]sudo apt-add-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade[/B]
```

After that I installed the **nvidia-current** package which included the **nvidia-304** drivers and rebooted when it was finished. After booting, everything worked fine and I was able to select the correct monitor resolution for my laptop. Loading up Nvidia X Server Settings also gave me detailed information about my gpu.

I then installed some other apps including VLC, Dropbox, GParted, and Sublime Text and rebooted the system again. This time the drivers had seemed to fail me again as I was restricted to a max monitor resolution of 1024x768 and the Nvidia X Server Settings did not give any information about my gpu like it previously had. Following more advice from googling I tried the following:

```
**ubuntu-drivers devices | grep recommended**
driver   : nvidia-340 - third-party free recommended
```

Based on that information I purged the previous nvidia drivers, installed the **nvidia-340** package, and then rebooted. Unfortunately this did not fix the problem either and this is everything I have done up until now.

Does anyone know why the nvidia drivers might work durring one boot, but will fail after rebooting the system?

---

