---
title: "8.10 Lenovo T60 ATI Radeon Mobility x1400 problems"
date: 2009-05-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by frankh on 2009-05-25
I just went from Debian Etch to Ubuntu 8.10 on my Lenovo T60 laptop. In Debian, I was able to install the ATI drivers downloaded from their website, got a good control panel for the screen setup, and ran dual monitors (laptop's own plux external) without problems. When I installed Ubuntu 9.04, I couldn't install these drivers no matter what I did, and no proprietary drivers at all were listed under the System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers window. So, I installed 8.10 instead.

I was able to install the ATI drivers listed in the unsupported hardware list, and they're now marked as activated and in use: ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver.

If I go to System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution, it doesn't even see my external monitor. Only one monitor is shown, and my laptop and external monitors are identical/mirrored. Furthermore - I cannot get the 1600 resolution the external monitor suports - only the 1400 of the laptop.

So I've installed amdccle, which is the biggest piece of garbage I've ever come across in the Linux world. It sees my external monitors, and reports its max resolution to 1680, but has 1440 as the highest choice when selecting the resolution. Also, after I've selected "Big Desktop right of display 2" or something else other than "Clone to display 2", so that I can actually get two desktops, the new display area has a resolution of about 800, while it is reported to have 2000. AND it tells me to restart the system, after which the settings are set right back to "Clone to display 2". In other words, it doesn't work _at all_

So - has anyone else has success with this laptop / ATI card? And does there exist a functioning control panel for ATI drivers in Ubuntu? I'd hate to have to go BACK to Debian because is more userfriendly and hardware-supportive than Ubuntu, as that would be the exact opposite of the Ubuntu mission.

Any hints, help, tips etc. are greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by frankh on 2009-05-25
Update: I was stupid enough to try the option "Separate display" on my external monitor (in amdcccle). The result: Gnome refuses to start after a reboot. It just stops on the background image and X-mouse pointer, using no CPU and never starting. The only solution is a complete reinstall. Another 2 hours of wasted time.

Man - what the HECK is the matter with Ubuntu and Laptops? I though the hardware support and usability of Ubuntu was unprecedented? As far as I can see, it has by far the worst ATI support of all Linux distros today. Or am I wrong, and/or doing something completely wrong?

---

