---
title: "Ubuntu 9.04 and Ati help is here"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by eidoslinux on 2009-04-27
ok, so i was having a problem after i installed 9.04 and the new Ati drivers on my 64bit system my screen keeped getting corrupted. And how i fixed it. first my setup system:

Amd 64bit processor
Ati Radeon hd 2900 XT videocard
Dual screen LCD's
i keeped getting a error of RandR 1.2 warning.

So first you have to Disable it.
1st. log out of X and go into teminal mode
2nd. cd /etc/ati/ 
3rd sudo nano ./amdpcsdb
4th find the section and says [AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/DDX]":
5th under that enter   : EnableRandR12=Sfalse
6th Save and exit.
7th Defalt Sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg with Ati Porp drivers installed.
8th Sudo aticonfig --initial from with in Gnome and then ati after reboot was able to modify the files as needed . here is a copy if my xorg.conf file that is working with me using bigdesktop.


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
    Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "Default Screen"
    Device     "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
    Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by eidoslinux on 2009-04-27
oh ya i am running at 2560 x 1024 and max effects and 9.04 is great as it should be sorry took me acouple of days to get it work though. Damn Display Manager and RandR 1 2


Let me know if this helps anyone!

---

