---
title: "Can ubuntu destroy laptop monitor"
date: 2012-02-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Cue89 on 2012-02-13
Hya,
I've been playing around with Ubuntu 11.04 and since i have done that i have a blurry spot on my laptop screen.
Can this be caused by ubuntu, also the laptop makes more noise running ubuntu then windows.
I have a Intel HD3000 videocard on a Acer Laptop.
Greetz,

---

### Post by JOHNNYG713 on 2012-02-13
The only thing that Ubuntu will destroy is Windows ! it just an operating system ! and has no direct contact with hardware, so in short, no !

---

### Post by Cue89 on 2012-02-13
can't it be that ubuntu forces a high Hz?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-02-13
While the response you got in post #2 is what most folks will say ... the truth is somewhat different.

Ubuntu has a known kernel bug that prevents some CPUs from autoscaling -- which means they run full power all the time.

The problem, when this is in a laptop, is that it is not designed to handle the heat generated by running the processor flat out for hours on end.  This can cause the laptop to crash -- which is likely to corrupt any filesystem open at the time.

Plus, prolonged excessive heat will burn out the processor and can cause damage to other components in the laptop.

However, is that going to damage the screen?  Other than side-effects from excessive heat, NO.

As to overdriving it by choosing an unsupported refresh rate?  That's more likely to result in a "black screen", than it is to damage the screen itself.

---

### Post by Cue89 on 2012-02-14
also the screen can get more brighter and darker in ubuntu then in windows.

---

