---
title: "Sceptre Unknown Monitor"
date: 2009-07-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Hiroshi on 2009-07-08
I'm currently trying to get through by using an older machine with Ubuntu 9.04 while I wait for a replacement. However the only problem I'm having is that my ProSavageDDR appears to be installed, but color depth is at 16-bit, making the whole display awful looking. Also my Sceptre 19" LCD monitor is undetected in Ubuntu 9.04, coming up with Unknown Monitor. 

My xorg.conf appears to be on super default mode as well. :(

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

