---
title: "9.10 freezing up frequently?"
date: 2009-12-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by b1lancer on 2009-12-09
I'm running Ubuntu 9.10 on a Dell Inspiron 6000 laptop. It completely freezes up unexpectedly when using Firefox. I could be look at a very dull and basic website and leave it alone for a few minutes and when I move the mouse, nothing happens on the screen. No ctrl+alt+dlt or alt+F2 ... nothing except a reboot.

Any ideas? Anyone else have the same issue or similar?

---

### Post by gpstar on 2009-12-09
are you running any screenlets?

---

### Post by b1lancer on 2009-12-09
nope. No screenlets. Just a fresh install with the updates.

---

### Post by Evilhugbear on 2009-12-09
Firefox has frozen at least 5 times in 15 minutes for me. Except, I can click the exit button after it turns grey and a window pops up and I click force quit. This is annoying, and I am thinking of trying a different version of ubuntu or trying fedora.

---

### Post by b1lancer on 2009-12-09
Could it just be that since 9.10 is still unstable (debian unstable I beleive)... uh... doesn't that have something to do with the freeze ups? Just an idea. I'm just learned that today.

---

### Post by Usufruct on 2009-12-10
Could this possibly be related to [#494189]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/494189"), which is a GDM memory leak bug?  It can cause some applications (such as firefox) to stop responding after awhile.

---

### Post by b1lancer on 2009-12-16
If it is a bug, will it be fixed by simply using the updates?

---

### Post by brocie on 2010-01-15
I'm having the same problem with gnome freezing when using firefox, I get mouse movement. To start with I had not keyboard but I can now get to the console.

I run top and only 2% CPU load and free RAM. I try kill firefox but gnome doesn't recover.
I also ran a memory test over night with no errors, just in case it was that.

If anyone has any ideas on what to check for I may be able to get some info on exactly what is causing this.

---

### Post by Crimsonjester on 2010-02-19
I am not alone....
 
I did the exact same as you did installing 9.1 on my Dell Inspiron 6000...
I get the freeze constantly.
Anyone have the version before 9.1 installed on a Dell Insperon 6000 and How stable is it????
would a previous version of linux fix this freezing problem ? 
I also read that shuting off compiz or video effects helps.
 
 
Just going to sit and watch the thread from my desktop running windows....

---

### Post by thisisadamh on 2010-03-14
I am getting the same issue as well. I am using Ubuntu on a Dell Dimension 2400. After installing a fresh 9.10 install over 8.04, I keep on having this problem. Will there be an update for this issue?

---

### Post by Crimsonjester on 2010-03-15
go into your preferences and shut off video something.....Special effects 
 
It worked for me. I havent had a bit of trouble since then

---

### Post by sportscliche on 2010-03-22
> **thisisadamh said:**
> I am getting the same issue as well. I am using Ubuntu on a Dell Dimension 2400. After installing a fresh 9.10 install over 8.04, I keep on having this problem. Will there be an update for this issue?

As I type this (late March 2010) the updates had not addressed it.  I overcame the freeze problem that occurs when running 9.10 on the Dell Dimension (and possibly many other older machines with Intel graphics hardware incompatibility) by rolling back the video driver.  Follow the simple steps given here:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4)

---

