---
title: "9.10 - HP Laserjet printing via Jetdirect fails"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kevinatkins on 2009-11-05
Hi,

I've installed Karmic on three machines - two from scratch and one is an upgrade from 9.04.

On all of the machines, I've been unable to print to my HP Laserjet 4 over the network, using the HP Jetdirect card on the printer.

I've added the printer and tried all of the various driver options, but each time I go to print a test page, it fails and the following notification appears: 'com.apple.print.recoverable'.... followed a minute or so later by another message suggesting that the printer isn't connected... which it most certainly is!

The printer works fine from Windows Vista and Windows 7, and was working perfectly with Ubuntu 9.04..

Has anyone else seen this? Have I missed something?

Any suggestions greatly appreciated - many thanks.

---

### Post by yamat on 2009-11-05
Hi,

I confirm the same experience on two installations I have of Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala but with my Panasonic printer for which I am using as driver the "Generic PCl 5e Printer - CUPS+Gutenprint v5.2.4 [en]".
    
Many thanks.

---

### Post by kevinatkins on 2009-11-05
OK, I've just connected the printer directly via a USB - Centronics adapter cable and it works perfectly.. so the issue lies somewhere with the network printing layer. For reference, we also have a Brother inkjet printer connected via ethernet and that works perfectly...

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2009-11-05
same for me hp laserjet 2110m

---

### Post by yamat on 2009-11-16
Hi,

An update on this.  It turns out the problem I encountered was more trivial than I originally thought.  My DHCP server had given a new IP address to my printer.  I corrected this by updating the new Device URI in System--->Administration--->Printing.  The printer now works and the error message 'com.apple.print.recoverable' is no longer there.

Kind regards.

---

