---
title: "Change Default Depth"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by aflog on 2008-11-14
Heya

I installed Xubuntu 8.10 from a fresh install and I've re-hit problems I previously had. I asked on the forum last time and got a solution: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=645390](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=645390)

**BUT**

I tried using the same method as earlier in that post by changing DefaultDepth to 16.. but upon opening xorg.conf, I found it was different. Ill post the contents here:> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
. I try manually putting it in, but on restart I am told that there was an error and gives me the option to reset the config (only option that actually lets me boot properly into X again).

Im lost. Is there anything I can Install to be able to bump up the resolution again and change the DefaultDepth? I have a slight feeling that It's not actually detecting the correct display adapter or monitor. Unlike last time, it's not the fonts that are the problem, it is the screen being way to big for my needs and the graphics are all screwed up whenever something moves so it's pretty important I figure this one out soonish to save my sanity haha.

Thanks for any help

Jayden

---

### Post by aflog on 2008-11-14
...

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-11-14
You're seeing a normal xorg in 8.10 the configuration lines for video, monitor and other things are no longer there-and don't try putting them in there either it doesn't work.

I think you might get somewhere by looking at bscbrit's post [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=969029") and the link he provides.

---

### Post by aflog on 2008-11-14
Ok I gave that a crack.
I changed the video drivers and the screen settings, hit Ok and logged off.

I then get warned it's now running in Low Graphics Mode with the errors saying:
"Problems parsing config file" and "Errors parsing config file".

I then proceed to reset it to default as it asks, and log in with no change to the settings at all. Upon reopening the displayconfig-gtk again, it has reverted back

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-11-14
I'm sorry xorg is so changed now that there is not much more I can add to this.

---

### Post by aflog on 2008-11-14
Hmmm thanks anyways. I think I may just install 8.04 instead where it will _ACTUALLY_ work! haha

otherwise I'll sit here forever trying to pull my hair out working it out :S

Jayden

---

