---
title: "8.10 intrepid Intel 4965 wireless WPA: internet stalls"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pricejn2 on 2008-10-30
Hello all.  I'm running Ubuntu 8.10 on my laptop with an Intel 4965 AGN (4965AGN) wireless card that is detected and functional with native drivers but my internet connection frequently stalls under a WPA/WPA2 wireless network.  I can connect to the network fine and the connection never appears to drop (via the network manager GUI). 

As a second question, my campus has a wireless network where there are many wireless routers with the same name across campus.  Generally, a computer (running Windows) will connect and/or detect the one with the highest signal strength.  I have a program in Windows that lets me view all of the available wireless networks even though they have the same name in case on of the systems fails for whatever reason.  Unfortunately, Ubuntu is by default connecting/detecting the wireless network with the lowest signal strength.  Is there any way (through a GUI preferably) to see all available wireless networks even if the SSID is repeated?

Thanks in advance for any help.  If you need more specific information don't hesitate to ask. By the way, I'm use Gnome generally.

---

### Post by bcscomp on 2008-10-30
Hi I came across this post (can't remember where) it's not exactly the same issue but may be relavent:

"The version of the iwlagn wireless driver for Intel 4965 wireless chipsets included in Linux kernel version 2.6.27 causes kernel panics when used with 802.11n networks. Users affected by this issue can install the linux-backports-modules-intrepid package, to install a newer version of this driver that corrects the bug. (Because the known fix requires a new version of the driver, it is not expected to be possible to include this fix in the main kernel package.)"

Might just be worth a try:)

---

### Post by pricejn2 on 2008-10-30
thanks for the tip bcscomp. the bug you reference can be found at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/276990](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/276990)

unfortunately, it didn't solve my problem in the slightest.  what i've tried thus far:

1) installed lbm-intrepid
2) disabled/enabled WMM on my router
3) installed latest compat-wireless (10/30/08)
4) installed Wicd ([http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php)) wireless client and i'll have to check tomorrow if it fixes my second issue, but it didn't affect the internet stalling issue.

---

### Post by spongypants23 on 2008-11-01
I've got this issue as well. Any fixes would be awesome.

I've got linux-backports-modules-intrepid installed.

---

### Post by Thyrus on 2008-11-05
I have the same problem. The backports packeage apparently only fixes the kernel panic issue with the iwlagn driver but not the connection stalls when on WPA/WPA2

---

### Post by pricejn2 on 2008-11-05
excerpt from [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/179698](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/179698)

"Hipopo wrote on 2008-10-02: (permalink)

Hello,

I have the same problem with the same Wireless card : Intel pro/wireless 4965 on Ubuntu Hardy Heron.
I don't have any problem with a non-encrypted connection, but the connection with a wpa/TTLS/TKIP/PAP network with a certificate work during between five minutes and one hour.
Ing0R : have you find a solution at this problem?
have you got any problem with Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex?


 Ing0R wrote on 2008-10-02: (permalink)

@Hipopo:
The only solution is to buy another nic. I have tried debian and fedora and experienced the same bug.
As the title of this bug says, it is also in Intrepid Ibex."

---

### Post by jblackthorne on 2008-11-06
I found the best solution to this problem is to install the latest update of the compat-wireless drivers package that includes the lasted Intel milestone build, 2008-10-31.  You can download the driver package here:

[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Download](http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Download)

Note: I recommend removing the linux-backports-modules packages before installing the compat-wireless drivers.  Also, I highly recommend that you using checkinstall to build a package and not do a make install.  

For those that are not comfortable compiling or wish to be able to safely rollout later, here is a link to a pre-compiled 64 bit package you are welcome to download.

[http://www.poptarantula.com/blog/?p=71](http://www.poptarantula.com/blog/?p=71)

---

### Post by spongypants23 on 2008-11-19
[nevermind]

---

### Post by spongypants23 on 2008-12-02
> **jblackthorne said:**
> I found the best solution to this problem is to install the latest update of the compat-wireless drivers package that includes the lasted Intel milestone build, 2008-10-31.  You can download the driver package here:

[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Download](http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Download)

Note: I recommend removing the linux-backports-modules packages before installing the compat-wireless drivers.  Also, I highly recommend that you using checkinstall to build a package and not do a make install.  

For those that are not comfortable compiling or wish to be able to safely rollout later, here is a link to a pre-compiled 64 bit package you are welcome to download.

[http://www.poptarantula.com/blog/?p=71](http://www.poptarantula.com/blog/?p=71)

Just a heads up to anyone who is going to attempt this. It completely broke all of my wireless driver/modules/whatever they are called. I don't recommend installing this.

---

### Post by bolinec on 2008-12-09
Just to add some noise here... I am also having this problem.

---

### Post by rah003 on 2008-12-14
Hi,
not sure if this is universal solution to the issue, but I managed to solve the issue on my laptop (ASUS V1S) with standard distribution of Intrepid by adding following to the /etc/modprobe.d/iwlagn
```
alias wlan0 iwlagn
options iwlagn disable_hw_scan=1
```

If you don't have iwlagn file in the /etc/modprobe.d directory, just create it and add the lines above.
Then restart (complete restart, reloading the module and restarting the network didn't seem to be enough).
Wireless works like dream ever since already tried multiple restarts and connected to different WPA and non WPA networks. Not sure if it will solve the issue also for anyone else, but give it a try.

---

### Post by spongypants23 on 2008-12-14
> **rah003 said:**
> Hi,
not sure if this is universal solution to the issue, but I managed to solve the issue on my laptop (ASUS V1S) with standard distribution of Intrepid by adding following to the /etc/modprobe.d/iwlagn
```
alias wlan0 iwlagn
options iwlagn disable_hw_scan=1
```

If you don't have iwlagn file in the /etc/modprobe.d directory, just create it and add the lines above.
Then restart (complete restart, reloading the module and restarting the network didn't seem to be enough).
Wireless works like dream ever since already tried multiple restarts and connected to different WPA and non WPA networks. Not sure if it will solve the issue also for anyone else, but give it a try.

I just recently downgraded to Hardy because this bug was irritating the crap out of me. However, is there anyone else who can confirm that this works?

---

### Post by bolinec on 2008-12-14
I gave it a swing, but it didn't really help. It seems to of actually caused my VAIO to lockup.  The computer will function fine for the first 5 min or so, then freeze solid.  Change the params back to default and the lockups go away. 

I'm fairly far removed from a default intrepid install though. In other attempts to fix this, I've upgraded to a dev compat-wireless and wpa_supplicant.  So your results my very.

---

### Post by rebegin on 2008-12-26
> **rah003 said:**
> Hi,
not sure if this is universal solution to the issue, but I managed to solve the issue on my laptop (ASUS V1S) with standard distribution of Intrepid by adding following to the /etc/modprobe.d/iwlagn
```
alias wlan0 iwlagn
options iwlagn disable_hw_scan=1
```

If you don't have iwlagn file in the /etc/modprobe.d directory, just create it and add the lines above.
Then restart (complete restart, reloading the module and restarting the network didn't seem to be enough).
Wireless works like dream ever since already tried multiple restarts and connected to different WPA and non WPA networks. Not sure if it will solve the issue also for anyone else, but give it a try.

hello,
i tried this but didn't help :(

---

### Post by spongypants23 on 2008-12-29
Does anyone know if this has been reported as a bug yet?

I was looking around on Launchpad but I couldn't find a bug report for this. Perhaps if someone still running Intrepid and experiencing this could file a bug, this may get fixed?

I'd love to use Intrepid, but I can't have my internet stalling every 5 minutes. It makes it a hassle to do my research papers.

Edit: Found it. Ignore me!

---

