---
title: "12.04 printer not working"
date: 2012-06-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Panawe on 2012-06-08
Just upgraded to Ubuntu 12.04 and most of my stuff still works, quite a nicely in fact. But not the printer - whenever I try to print to my Epson C48 the job shows up as stopped.
Any ideas?

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-06-08
You could take a look at printer settings.  The best way I've found is to restore the printer app from Gnome 2.  In a terminal

 ```
 sudo system-config-printer
``` 

If you get a 'not found' message you may have to install it via the Software Center or Synaptic if you've installed that.  Right-click Epson C48,  left-click properties.  Look at each of the items on the left and see if anything looks unusual.  Policies -> State make sure 'enabled', 'accepting jobs' and 'shared' -- make sure they're all checked.

---

### Post by Panawe on 2012-06-08
Thanks.
I checked and the printer wasn'#t enabled - so I enabled it and restarted the computer and it still doesn't print! Everything looks okay in Printer proerties, the things you mentioned are set as you said.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2012-06-08
Try using a different printer driver. Whenever my printer messes up, it's usually this.

---

### Post by Panawe on 2012-06-08
That's fixed it!  :)

---

### Post by biometricstu on 2013-03-20
Hi.  I had the same problem.  After an upgrade my HP C4580 stopped working.  My problem was that the printer was not enabled and as soon as I enabled it my pending jobs started to print.  

Thanks for the info, it really helped.

Stu :-)

---

### Post by Mardwan on 2013-03-20
I had the same problem and this post helped me find what i was overlooking. Thanks everyone :)

---

### Post by tstduke on 2013-04-30
Yeah, I  used the printer config command "sudo system-config-printer" then selected the correct driver for my printer. Now it works fine. 
For some reason the upgrade to 12.04 had changed the printer driver to another model.

---

