---
title: "9.10 eeePC Touch Pad Scrolling No Longer Working"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by physeetcosmo on 2009-11-02
Ubuntu Gurus,

I am curious why my Touch Pad scroll operation (two fingers instead of one) no longer works in UNR 9.10?

Is this a Kernel conflict or something else?

Thanks!

---

### Post by rpc27 on 2009-11-04
physeetcosmo,

First post, so I hope that it makes sense.

I have an eeePC 1000H and the two finger scrolling stopped working after upgrade to 9.10 too. This can be remedied in the settings.

From your NBR launch pad or the main menu: **System **>> **Preferences **>> **Mouse **then on the **Touchpad tab **there's a **Scrolling **heading. Mine had reset to Disabled, simply change this to **Two-finger scrolling **and you should have all the functionality back.

Hope this helps.

R

---

### Post by physeetcosmo on 2009-11-04
rpc27-

Thanks for the post, I actually found out that it was an option turned off under "Mouse" in the System tab. But I'm sure your post will help someone else!

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Dooms_day on 2009-11-04
there isnt an option for two finger zooming in the mouse window...so does anyone know about that?

---

### Post by physeetcosmo on 2009-11-04
> **Dooms_day said:**
> there isnt an option for two finger zooming in the mouse window...so does anyone know about that?

If you press and hold CTRL button while you use two fingers to "scroll up" the page (or document) zooms in. If pressing CTRL and "scroll down" the page (or document) zooms out.

The two-finger scrolling needs to be enabled for this to work (obviously :] )

---

