---
title: "8.10 nvidia 7900GS"
date: 2009-01-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jordyplotnek on 2009-01-15
Hi all,
I am very new to linux. Yesterday I installed linux ubuntu 8.04 on my computer(dual boot with vista) and the screen and mouse were both out of sync majorly. 
So I downloaded ubuntu 8.10 and it works well, but it is not letting me use my graphics card. So I can't access the desktop effects or any of the other cool stuff. 
I have an nvidia GeForce 7900GS card. Also I have not managed to connect to my network yet, so it's offline. I am running the internet on the vista boot so if I don't respond immediately it's because I'm rebooting my computer :P

Are there any driver install files I can download to a jump drive so that my graphics card will work?

Thanks in advance :)

---

### Post by studentidiot on 2009-01-15
Ubuntu should show you the option to use restricted drivers from Nvidia in the top right corner of the screen.

I think you have to be connected to the network. Connect and look for the icon to appear or go to Hardware Drivers option in the settings.

---

### Post by jordyplotnek on 2009-01-15
I can see the thingo. It says that some of my hardware is restricted or not installed or something (I can't remember off the top of my head), but when I click to install it, the thingo looks like it's doing something, but then the little circle that should turn green stays grey. and I've been trying to connect to the internet but haven't managed to so far. On vista I connect through wireless and I don't know all the network settings.

---

### Post by kamnrune13 on 2009-05-12
You may want to first address your internet issue, as many of the features you are trying to access, and will subsequently need to finish configuring your system is online. Including restricted drivers and the like. Check your hardware in a terminal window using the command **lspci** to see what your network hardware is identified as or connect via ethernet directly to save time as odds are your wired network adapter is ready to go... best of luck :) :-\"

---

