---
title: "v10.04 SONY VAIO SR11M FRONT MIC doesn't work"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by FixMe on 2010-05-11
Hi,
Thanks a lot for this new release of Ubuntu (v10.04) that's resolve my reboot and shutdown problems !

All the system sound works except the front mic that I need when I use Skype with my laptop (sony VAIO sr11m).

With Ubuntu v9.02 I have solved the problem following the instructions given on this page : [http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/audio_intel_hda](http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/audio_intel_hda) (french) and I fix it by put this line at the end of /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf.
options snd-hda-intel model=toshiba

But now it doesn't work.
Sound card = HDA Intel
Chipset = Realtek ALC262

As you can see in the capture.png I've test it with "capture" that's mapped with Input source "Front Mic" this match with "Microphone 2" on the GUI ! But no record, no input level !
(This works with a classic mic)

Can anyone help me ?

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-13
Use gnome-alsamixer and pulseaudio volume control. If you are showing input levels and everything works except skype, try this fix:
Use a terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
Enter these commands, one line at a time:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install linux-alsa-driver-modules-$(uname -r)
```

Reboot.

---

### Post by FixMe on 2010-05-13
Thank you very much lidex ! 
All the system sound works now !:KS

I've executed the command lines and that fix the problem. So my sound configuration has changed as you can see in the screen shot. I've tested with the Front mic and a classic mic and that's ok for both. There's no regression with the rest of the system (headphones, speakers).

---

