---
title: "9.10 Aspire One ZG5 No Wireless Wi-Fi"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by gofes on 2009-11-10
Hello

I have a little Aspire One net book, and have just installed 9.10 NBR

I am having trouble with the wireless connection. It seems ubuntu is not recognising the built in wireless card as in

```

iwconfig info:

lo no wireless connections

eth0 no wireless connections
```

And the network connection icon in the top right give me no wireless option.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by linktanya on 2009-11-10
I want to buy to setup Wifi in My office, please help

---

### Post by gazreen on 2009-11-10
Try connect to the internet using a cable connection first and then run the Update Manager and then the Hardware Drivers.

---

### Post by gofes on 2009-11-11
Good idea!

Ok now iwconfig shows Wlan0
lspci shows: Ethernew controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR5001 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
which was not present before.

But the enable wireless option in network manager is still grayed out. 

Any suggestions gratefully received.

---

### Post by krimzonstarr on 2009-12-04
Question: Did you formerly use Windows XP on the AA1? I have an AA1 ZG5 that came with Windows XP, dual-booted with 9.04, and now reformatted to use only Karmic. I hate to say it, but my wifi worked OOTB with both 9.04 and 9.10. I know sometimes if the hardware killswitch for the wifi was tripped before the ubuntu install, then ubuntu will not recognize it until it is reset at boot. Have you tried accessing wifi from a liveUSB system or windows?

---

