---
title: "10.04 on Jetway ITX with Intel graphics (relative noob)"
date: 2010-05-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by DancesWithRobots on 2010-05-18
I was having trouble running 10.04 live with UNetbootin, until I added "xforcevesa" to the start up options.  Then I was able to get to a desktop, and finally install.  adding "i915.modeset=0" or i915.modeset=1" had no effect.  (Startup would end on display generated error "input out of range")

just before the desktop appears, I get a warning that Ubuntu is running in low res mode with options to run a single session, troubleshoot, view logs, etc.  Since I don't really know what I'm looking at, and attempting to troubleshoot just got me back to "input out of range" running low res is the only thing that seems to work.

The motherboard is a Jetway NF95a-270-LF with an intel GMA 950 chipset.  And in spite of the warning I get, everything seems to run just fine.  That is, I can operate at full resolution.

Can someone offer some assistance with troubleshooting/configuration so I can at least get rid of the error message?

---

### Post by DancesWithRobots on 2010-05-24
Still looking into this.

Ubuntu seems to find the graphics chipset, but nothing about the monitor at all.

I have a similar MB  (Intel D945GSTJT) which has the same problem, EXCEPT, if I connect it via a DVI cable, I get through a normal install, and everything works fine--even when attached via a VGA cable.

Using "sudo Xorg -config"  on both systems gets me the same xorg.conf.new file--except for the driver being "intel" on the Intel board, and "vesa" on the Jetway board.

Obviously, the problem is with the way Ubuntu handles the monitor on the Jetway board.  I've tried to set up the monitor section of xorg.conf using specs for H & V frequency that I found for the monitor online, but still got nowhere.

Aside from getting a low graphics warning on the jetway board, it runs at full resolution and full color.

Both MB's use the same chipset, same graphics adapter, same monitor, same CPU.  

I must be missing something.  Is there anything I can compare/transfer between the two MB's that will get rid of this "low graphics" warning and allow me to use the intel graphic driver, (such as it is) on the Jetway MB?

---

### Post by DancesWithRobots on 2010-05-25
Oh well.  I tried.

Except for one easy to find driver, Windows 7 worked out of the box.

I'd like to say thanks, but instead I'll just wish you all "Good luck."

Bill is still my master.

---

