---
title: "m.2 ssd optimization blockages"
date: 2018-07-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by eian2 on 2018-07-28
On trying to optimize my Samsung 970 pro m.2 nvme ssd drive I experienced some difficulties. First one is the option to enable write cache in the Gnome disk utility. I found out that the drive options in the menu were grayed out. Then I figured out I needed root privalliges to access the drive options so I used 'sudo gnome-disks' in the terminal to open gnome disks. It didn't open Gnome-disks and this was the output:
```
ejan@linux-nr9m:~> sudo gnome-disks
[sudo] password for root: 
Unable to init server: Could not connect: Connection refused
```
Then I tried to open gnome-disks as a superuser. It succeded to open gnome disks but still the drive options were grayed out. This was the output I got:
```
linux-nr9m:/home/ejan # gnome-disks




(gnome-disks:3370): GLib-GIO-CRITICAL **: g_dbus_proxy_new_sync: assertion 'G_IS_DBUS_CONNECTION (connection)' failed




(gnome-disks:3370): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_menu_button_set_menu_model: assertion 'G_IS_MENU_MODEL (menu_model) || menu_model == NULL' failed
```


There is alsoo a way the enable write cache trough the terminal. To check whether write cache is turned on or of you enter: 'sudo hdparm -W /dev/sd*'. The device designation for the ssd that containes linux on my system is /dev/nvme1n1 so I entered:


```
ejan@linux-nr9m:~> sudo hdparm -W /dev/nvme1n1
[sudo] password for root: 




/dev/nvme1n1:
 HDIO_DRIVE_CMD(identify) failed: Inappropriate ioctl for device
```


So there is no way for me, at least up until now, to enable write cache in anyway. The device designation isn't even identified by the 'hdparm' command, however it's the absolute correct drive location according to the 'sudo blkid' command. There is a line in the output of that command that say's:


```
/dev/nvme1n1: PTUUID="********-****-****-****-************" PTTYPE="gpt"
```


What changes should I make to get 'hdparm' to recognise my ssd drive and access the drive settings in gnome disks?


Secondly a simple question about the fstrim.service file in the systemd folder that is set to trim your ssd weekly by default. Since I have a separate home partition does the fstrim service alsoo trim the home partition or do I need to edit the file to accomplish that?


Any of your suggestions are more than welcome!

---

### Post by eian2 on 2018-07-28
[FONT=arial][SIZE=2]I[SIZE=2]'ve installed the nvme-cli package and checked the list of possible commands, even the [COLOR=#333333][SIZE=2]man nvme-get-feature but didn't find anything about enabling or disabling write cache. Searched the internet and on [this github]("https://github.com/vmware/nvme/wiki/esxcli-nvme-plugin") page found a possible commandline feature called [/SIZE]"[/COLOR][/SIZE][COLOR=#24292E][SIZE=2]vwc" (NVMe feature volatile write cache operations) but I have no idea how to apply it in the terminal[/SIZE].[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]:?:

---

