---
title: "1005HA: No touchpad in xorg, plus other issues."
date: 2009-07-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Cravethought on 2009-07-19
Hey all. Posting from my new Eeepc 1005HA, and I had a bit of a problem.

I'm trying to impliment the hack found here, that would allow my touchpad to have a bit of a delay in input after I started typing. I'm having a hell of a time trying to keep myself from scrolling all over the damned page from the slightest bit of contact.

Basically the hack calls for the editing of my xorg.conf, but when I opened it, I didn't find any relevant configs for my touchpad. I'm supposed to be looking for a Synaptic Touchpad, but I frankly couldn't find drivers for Ubuntu for the touchpad, or whether it was a Synaptic one.ix this 

The touchpad works just fine now, but it isn't disabled by the "touchpad off" button or FN + F3; I'd like to possibly fix this too, while I'm here.

Thanks in advance. Here is my xorg.conf file, just in case.

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-07-19
I think you first need to verify the toughpad is the right model, there is no point proceeding if it isn't. Once sure you have the correct hardware, use a more uptodate guide -> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad#Enabling%20SHMConfig](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad#Enabling%20SHMConfig).

---

