---
title: "Where does Ubuntu hide the graphics information?"
date: 2008-12-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rjstevens3 on 2008-12-18
I'll begin by saying I haven't used ubuntu in 2 years because I tried using a mac for all my work linux projects. Lets just say I'm back now. I'm running ubuntu 8.10 on an alienware M17 with dual ati 3870s. I'm working on getting the proprietary graphics drivers working because I want the stream computing support and crossfire. I've run into a few problems getting the drivers to install. 

I tried installing the 8.12 driver from ATI and after installing and running > aticonfig --initial -f I get a black screen, but I do get system sounds which indicates that the system at least finished booting. 

I tried installing the drivers from the GUI interface in ubuntu and met similar results.

After both of these attempts I rebooted into rescue mode and dropped into the command shell. from there I restored the old xorg.config file and rebooted again only to find the same black screen! 

So now I'm on my third installation with working graphics, but not the catalyst drivers and I have looked into the xorg.conf file. There doesn't seem to be any real information in it! So what I want to know while I work on the graphics driver issue, is where does ubuntu keep the information about the graphics system? 

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


---

### Post by impact on 2008-12-18
Ubuntu tries to autodetect and autoconfigure everything during boot. In other words, it does not save the info about your graphics in xorg.conf.

You could try using an xorg.conf from an older Ubuntu version or edit one by hand.

---

### Post by camionrouge on 2008-12-19
Look at the X log file, usually at /var/log/Xorg.O.log
This will show you what the system detects and what modules it tries to load.
You might find this useful as well
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting)
and [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video)
Hope this helps.

---

