---
title: "20.04, I need help with getting a Deskjet 3522 working."
date: 2021-02-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Swan_DB on 2021-02-04
**[SOLVED] post #2 by u/rsteinmetz70112 got the printing to work.**

I have what I assume is the driver, I don't know, I've seen a pdo file, an o file, all sorts of different hplip stuff that has me going in circles.

I ran ```
sudo hp-setup -i
```

output is: 
```
warning: One or more print queues already exist for this device: Deskjet_3520.
```

I have a 3522, which HP's website links to "download hplip" which I don't know if I did, I ran ```
sudo apt install hplip hplip-gui 
```
but I also downloaded directly from the website a few days ago, I'm in a mess, and just don't know enough about Linux yet.

[QUESTION]  How can I get that "Deskjet_3520" file off my computer, and/or get the correct file which I don't think I have, for the Deskjet 3522?

Drowning emoji:confused:

**EDIT:**  I saw a warning miles back in the terminal saying something like "version 20.04 is not fully supported, 18.04 dependencies are being used"....   I guess I'm trying to win a battle that's unwinnable?  How do I check to see when/if 20.04 will be supported?  HP's link [shows]("https://developers.hp.com/hp-linux-imaging-and-printing/supported_devices/index") Deskjet 3522 has full support, which has me confused.

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2021-02-04
Some HP printers are supported directly without HPlip. Some auto install. You may have one of those. I'd start by removing hplip and hplip-gui and see if your printer works without them. You can always reinstall them if you need to.

Installing things from any website for Linux is always a gamble, even someone competent like HP. There are simply too many variations for a universal program. It is possible that Ubuntu has updated whatever dependencies are needed in the version in their repositories.
Always use the repositories first, never install things from other places without investigating them. Asking here is usually a good first step..

---

### Post by brian_p on 2021-02-04
Do yourself a big favour and connect by wireless. When you have done that, come back and give us the outputs of ```
avahi-browse -rt _ipp._tcp
``` ```
avahi-browse -rt _uscan._tcp
``` ```
driverless
```

> but I also downloaded directly from the website a few days ago, I'm in a mess...

Doing this usually leads to tears. The distro HPLIP packages are good enough to set up your printer. But you do not even need them.

---

### Post by Swan_DB on 2021-02-04
> **rsteinmetz70112 said:**
> Some HP printers are supported directly without HPlip. Some auto install. You may have one of those. I'd start by removing hplip and hplip-gui and see if your printer works without them. You can always reinstall them if you need to.

Installing things from any website for Linux is always a gamble, even someone competent like HP. There are simply too many variations for a universal program. It is possible that Ubuntu has updated whatever dependencies are needed in the version in their repositories.
Always use the repositories first, never install things from other places without investigating them. Asking here is usually a good first step..

I freaking KNEW IT!  I could've sworn I printed something already, but can't remember as I was not clear headed, but it was the SCANNER/COPIER part that didn't work, and that's what led me to hplip and all this mess.

I will try to remove hplip and hplip-gui and see if it prints again.  Thanks.

> **brian_p said:**
> Do yourself a big favour and connect by wireless. When you have done that, come back and give us the outputs of ```
avahi-browse -rt _ipp._tcp
``` ```
avahi-browse -rt _uscan._tcp
``` ```
driverless
```



Doing this usually leads to tears. The distro HPLIP packages are good enough to set up your printer. But you do not even need them.

I have read of people connecting via wifi and their IP address, and having success.  I am going with the other commenter's suggestion first, but will revisit this wireless connection in the future.

Thank you : )

---

### Post by brian_p on 2021-02-04
> I will try to remove hplip and hplip-gui and see if it prints again. 
Did doing this restore printing?

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2021-02-05
> **Swan_DB said:**
> I freaking KNEW IT!  I could've sworn I printed something already, but can't remember as I was not clear headed, but it was the SCANNER/COPIER part that didn't work, and that's what led me to hplip and all this mess.

I will try to remove hplip and hplip-gui and see if it prints again.  Thanks.

The SCANNER will probably work with standard Linux utilities. 
I'm not sure why you need a remote COPIER, just push the buttons on the front panel :cool:
I have a new one I'd like to get the outgoing FAX to work on, haven't got that one licked yet but manual Fax works fine.

Let us know how it works out.

---

