---
title: "12.04 pm-suspend   wol  problem"
date: 2012-12-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by wojb on 2012-12-16
Hi
I have issue as folow.
I'm on Ubuntu desktop. I use pm-suspend and wol to work remote on my mashine.
Before I stood on Ubuntu 10.04 and all mentioned procedures work excellent.
Since I move to 12.04 (64bit) problems occure.
If I suspend mashine from system menu I can wakeup it from power button, 
but I cant wakeup it from wol.
If I suspend mashine from terminal with pm-suspend I can wakeup mashine either with
power button and wol, system wakeup maybe 1-2 times and in next attempt it doesn't.
Mashines start, but monitors (I have to monitors) are dead - diode on them blinking.
Follow this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1981650](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1981650) 
I guess it's graphic drives fault (ATI Radeon HD 3300) 
so I tried with proprietary ATI drivers as folow:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/74171...rted-in-ubuntu]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/74171/is-my-ati-graphics-card-supported-in-ubuntu")
but its doesn't  solve the problem.

I see to ways to solve the problem:
 - try to find out what is wrong with pm-suspend and graphical,
 - tune suspend from system menu to suspend with wol capability. 

And here is my questions accordingly:
  - how to do this :smile:
  - what is the command that I can use in terminal to suspend in menu suspend manner,
    and how to tune it to make wol possible. 

Best Regards

---

### Post by linrunner on 2012-12-16
Hi,

you may be on the wrong track. There is a script in Precise **/usr/lib/pm-utils/power.d/disable_wol** that disables wol on battery power. To disable the script create an empty file named **/etc/pm/power.d/disable_wol**.

Did you check with 
```
sudo ethtool eth0 | grep Wake
```
if wol ist enabled before suspending and after resume?

EDITH: for the terminal command to suspend "desktop-like" look [here]("http://www.produnis.de/blog/?p=1206").

---

### Post by wojb on 2012-12-16
Thank you for fast response.
Yee the link dispel my second issue - thanks a lot !
But still have first issue.
sudo ethtool eth0 | grep Wake gives :
 Supports Wake-on: pumbg
 Wake-on: g

 I have the following efect 
 If  suspend  with own-power-cmd   -  cant wakeup by wol
 if  suspend with  pm-suspend   - can wakeup by wol
 (but sometimes doesn't back the screens) 

  More difference betwen this two:
  if suspend  via own-power-cmd after wakeup system ask  for login passwd.
  If suspend via pm-suspend system doesn't ask for passwd (if wakeup at all).

Any suggestions?

regards

---

### Post by linrunner on 2012-12-17
> **wojb said:**
> Wake-on: g
Means "Wake on MagicPacket" which is ok for your purpose.

> **wojb said:**
> I have the following efect ...
I have no idea about the exact cause. I would suggest you analyze/compare the log output in **/var/log/pm-suspend.log** and **/var/log/pm-powersave.log** of both methods – because on-power-cmd should call pm-suspend too (at the last stage).

> **wojb said:**
> 
  More difference betwen this two:
  if suspend  via own-power-cmd after wakeup system ask  for login passwd.
  If suspend via pm-suspend system doesn't ask for passwd (if wakeup at all).

To my knowledge this works as designed (same here). You need the additional desktop logic of the dbus call in on-power-cmd to lock the screen after resume.

---

