---
title: "8.04 Sprint PCMCIA 720 Installation Help"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Rsulliv1 on 2008-04-25
Has anyone been able to get Sprint's Merlin/Novatel S720 PCMCIA card working with 8.04?

I followed the instructions on:
[http://www4.sprint.com/pcsbusiness/downloads/Sprint_Mobile_Broadband_Setup_Guide.pdf](http://www4.sprint.com/pcsbusiness/downloads/Sprint_Mobile_Broadband_Setup_Guide.pdf)

But, the command:
sudo dmesg | grep -i ttyUSB
never returned what it was supposed to.

the driver always throws an error and won't hold it's given address. 

Has anyone been able to install this card successfully?

Sony SZ650

---

### Post by ndale686738 on 2008-04-25
i use a merlin XU870 and Umtsmon [http://umtsmon.sourceforge.net/](http://umtsmon.sourceforge.net/) is all i ever needed to get mine working. Back when i started using it i had to use alien to convert to a .deb but there are some Ubuntu packages floating around now. hope it works for you. It auto detects everything for me. Just make sure to enter in your apn info when you create a profile.

---

### Post by brucekev on 2008-07-08
I also use a Merlin XU870 with 8.04 ubuntu. I got it working using the scripts on the Novatel site, and with umtsmon. The problem is that with either of them programs like Firefox 3.0 do not recognize that I am connected to the web, and start in "offline" mode. Does anyone know how to make the network manager recognize that you are connected? :confused: I can tell Firefox to work online, and then I can pull up web pages just fine. Skype seems to recognize it fine.  Any help would be appreciated. I am quite a noob at this, but like ubuntu alot.
Kev

---

### Post by jka4321 on 2008-11-21
upgrade to 8.1 ubuntu and the card should work as the sprint pentech 500 does with no scripts just plug it in

---

