---
title: "16.04 on XPS 9360 - Popping and sound interruption using USB-C / HDMI output"
date: 2018-09-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nmz2 on 2018-09-29
Dear Ubuntu community,

As a beginner with Ubuntu, I am currently facing some issues with my sound when I try to output it directly on my external screen. What I do is that I connect my screen (HDMI) via an USB-C adapter to my laptop, video works perfectly but audio has some issues. If I don't play any sounds for approximately 10 seconds, I get a unpleasant popping sound. After this happens, if I play any new sound, I get another popping sound in my ears, and the first half-second or so of the sound is cut (both unpleasant and impractical). This does not happen if connect my audio directly to the computer's jack port, or if I use an external simple usb audio card/adapter.

At first glance, I suspect some aggressive power-saving options (even if my laptop is plugged in), with the audio disabling the output when no sound are emitted for a certain period of time. I checked the following settings/parameters:
- In the tlp config file: no power-saving options activated for audio ;
- In alsamixer: auto-mute is disabled ;
- In /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf: tried to add "options snd-hda-intel power_save=0" ;
- Even tried to force audio powersave to off in /usr/lib/pm-utils/power.d/intel-audio-powersave ;

Now I'm running out of ideas, and I haven't been able to find someone with a similar issue.

My hardware is a Dell XPS 13 9360 laptop, with HDA Intel PCH / Realtek ALC3246 (according to alsamixer). I am currently using Ubuntu 16.04.4.

I would be very thankful if any of you had any idea or suggestion.

---

### Post by dbazile on 2019-01-27
I'm having a similar problem except its persistent crackling when audio plays, on a bunch of diff. hardware (and distros).

I've seen it on a bunch of diff hardware too:

- Thinkpad X1 Carbon (6th gen) (Realtek ALC285)
- Thinkpad E480
- XPS15 9575

Same monitor for all of those: Samsung S27H850QFN

I opened a bug with PulseAudio after trying a bunch of different things I've found during web searches to resolve the issue with no success:
[https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/pulseaudio/pulseaudio/issues/625](https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/pulseaudio/pulseaudio/issues/625)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2019-01-29
I see you determined that pulseaudio was not at fault. Have you filed a kernel bug? [https://bugzilla.kernel.org/buglist.cgi?component=Sound%28ALSA%29&product=Drivers&resolution=---](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/buglist.cgi?component=Sound%28ALSA%29&product=Drivers&resolution=---)

You seem to follow directions well, so I think you have a good chance of getting a resolution there.

---

### Post by dbazile on 2019-01-29
Filed one this evening:
[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=202455](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=202455)

And now we wait... :D

---

