---
title: "14.04 on UX32VD does not suspend"
date: 2014-10-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by musiKk on 2014-10-14
According to various sources (among them the [Ubuntu Wiki]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AsusZenbookPrime")) the UX32VD from Asus actually makes for a pretty decent Ubuntu laptop. And I have to say, install was a breeze, almost everything works out of the box or with little manual steps required; even Bluetooth and Brightness keys. The last killer feature however I did not manage to work: Suspend.

Whenever I invoke suspend the screen gets black for a few milliseconds and I'm in the lock screen again. This happens 100% of the time.

I tried just about everything you read on the Web about that topic and a lot of people seem to have succeeded but all those things didn't work for me:
[LIST]
[*]Of course Ubuntu 14.04 is fully upgraded
[*]I used **acpitool** to disable wake up feature for all devices, I tried different combinations of enabling and disabling them, I put the commands in **rc.local**, rebooted, verified that they worked; suspend still broken
[*]I tried it with USB devices attached and detached, with and without reboot
[*]I disabled xHCI in the BIOS (which incidentally required a BIOS upgrade; a tick to that as well); all that did was disabling one of the wake up devices from the start
[*]The UX32VD has Intel integrated graphics and GeForce, I tried both nouveau and the proprietary drivers (which seem to work fine btw), no effect on reboot
[*]I initiated suspend by closing the lid, from the menu (both Unity and KDE), via **pm-suspend** (returns error code 128; **pm-is-supported --suspend** returns zero as it should)
[/LIST]
I'm a bit desperate; a lot of these solutions I found are met with success stories. For some reason it doesn't work for me. I think I'm slowly running out of options. Is there something else I have overlooked?

---

### Post by weatherman2 on 2014-10-14
Suspend is an essential feature for any laptop, and that's always the first thing I fix on a new Ubuntu install if it doesn't work.  It usually does for me, though.

The first thing I'd probably try is booting a different version of Ubuntu (12.04 perhaps?) and see if suspend works on that version.  You should be able to suspend with just a live USB boot, without installing.  If that works but 14.04 does not then at least you know it's possible and only some tweaking is in order.

Otherwise - what's the output of the file /var/log/pm-suspend.log ?  That may be a very large file.  You might try to trim off everything but the end - look for dates to indicate only the most recent section at the end.

How about the output of "sudo lshw" ?

---

### Post by musiKk on 2014-10-16
Oh man, thanks for your reply. You did point me in the right direction. It's a pretty uncommon case. You see, the UX32VD comes with a soldered on SSD which is prone to dying. It died on me too. Since I have an SSD anyway, I didn't give it much thought. However, someone else seemed to have [the same problem]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/496237/sh-echo-i-o-error-on-pm-suspend-ubuntu-14-04"). The problem becomes apparent when looking at pm-suspend.log; there is an I/O error mentioned which is caused by the faulty drive.

Disabling the drive via (in my case) "echo 1 | sudo tee /sys/block/sdb/device/delete" works.

I only saw the error because I skimmed over the ready to post snippet from pm-suspend.log.

Thanks again. :)

---

