---
title: "8500GT Problem - 14 hours into this"
date: 2008-09-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-09
OK, 
I had my gaphics card crash, an older 6600GT.  I used to use 7.04 with that card and ran the desktop effects fine.  I went out and snagged a replacement card; 8500GT.  Thinking the newer card would fall under the basic nVidia restricted drivers, I got it and installed it.  I am now using 8.04, mind you. Well, I've installed and uninstalled just about everything I can get my hands on.  I used envy, the restricted that come with Ubuntu, and then tried, many many times, to manually install a driver from the nVidia site.  I started on this this morning and I am at my wits end.  I am running the x64 version of Ubuntu.  

Here is my xorg.conf:

```

polygone@earth:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 8 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:5:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1440x900"
	Horizsync	31.5-56.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1440x900@60" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1440	900
		Modes		"1440x900@60"	"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection


```


If someone can point me in the right direction, I'd be very appreciative.  I have tried killing gdm and installing many different drivers.

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-10
bump

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-09-10
Have you tried reconfiguring X? ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
After that try reinstalling your NVIDIA drivers through Envy or the Hardware Drivers option, if that doesn't please post back.

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-11
Hey man,

Thanks for the reply.  I will try and make this as painless as possible.  I ran the command to reconfigure xorg.  I, then, downloaded a fresh copy of the 64 bit linux drivers from nVidia's site.  I killed the gdm and logged in as root.  I installed the driver, went through the options to reconfigure, and rebooted.  I, now, have no signal coming to the monitor at all.  I am using an HDTV, via DVI => HDMI.  I am going to have to reboot and restore my xorg.conf.  This is where I keep getting stuck, with this particular method.

I've done this so many times, so I may be a bit off.  I think, if I use Envy, I end up booting into 800 x 600 mode.  I realize these are supposedly the same drivers I got from the site, so, like I said, I may be off.  It may give me the blank screen.  I'll rerun it again tonight.  There isn't anything I can do beyond that, though.  Any other suggestions?

Again, thanks for the reply.

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-12
Another weird thing.  I noticed, in my xorg.conf, that there were higher resolutions listed than were allowed.  The highest it let me go was 1300 x 768, or something to that effect.  I even ran gconf.editor and tried to change it manually.  I can deal with that, though.  The main thing I'm concerned with is getting the card to run correctly.

---

### Post by smokyboy0 on 2008-09-12
> **polygone said:**
> Another weird thing.  I noticed, in my xorg.conf, that there were higher resolutions listed than were allowed.  The highest it let me go was 1300 x 768, or something to that effect.  I even ran gconf.editor and tried to change it manually.  I can deal with that, though.  The main thing I'm concerned with is getting the card to run correctly.

I had quite some problems making nvidia to work properly on my laptop. I don't know if this will help, but I remember having to uninstall the nvidia-glx modules before everything started to work with the restricted drivers. If I look for "nvidia" in my Synaptic the only thing installed is nvidia-kernel-common. Of "restricted" I have linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-19-generic, linux-restricted-modules-common and linux-restricted-modules-generic installed.

Now each time I update the kernel I do the same procedure you described: download the new driver, go to another session, stop gdm, install the driver (which uninstalls the previous driver, compiles the modules and sets up xorg.conf), and when I restart everything works. Now this may be because I once luckily set up something correctly or because it is the right thing to do.

Hope something of this helps you.

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-12
When it fails what does the Xorg log-file show as the cause?

Because Hardy tries to fail-safe and start X with a lowest-common-denominator xorg.conf the log-file from the failed attempt gets renamed.

Look for: /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old

Regardless of log-file name, read the *contents* to ensure the log-file you are examining is from an attempt to start the **nvidia** driver, not vesa or nv.

---

### Post by life_s_good on 2008-09-12
Shouldn't there be a driver setting in your xorg.conf?

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-12
@smokyboy0

I think I may have uninstalled that file, during one of the installation attempts.  I will try and remove it again and start from scratch.  After while, I can't remember what I've tried and what I haven't.  Can you confirm this card works? or is it just another nVidia?

@IntuitiveNipple

lol @ screen name....I will look at that log file, when I get to my home machine.  I didn't realize it would still be there, when I reverted to the older set up.  I will post anything I find.

@life_s_good

During the installation it says it reconfigures xorg.  I am not all that sure that it did, to be honest, but I just assumed it would.  The thing is I can't tell, because I keep having to revert back to my old config to even see the screen.

Again, thanks for the replies guys.

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-13
/var/log/Xorg.0.log.old

OK that file is a bit too lengthy to post here. I will attach it, instead.

---

### Post by smokyboy0 on 2008-09-13
> **polygone said:**
> /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old

OK that file is a bit too lengthy to post here. I will attach it, instead.

I am not really an expert for this, so I can only tell you what my log file says about loading glx module which is obviously missing in your configuration:

(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so
(II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
	compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
	Module class: X.Org Server Extension
(II) NVIDIA GLX Module  177.67  Mon Aug 11 12:26:13 PDT 2008
(II) Loading extension GLX

Compare this with the part in your log file:

(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(WW) Warning, couldn't open module glx
(II) UnloadModule: "glx"
(EE) Failed to load module "glx" (module does not exist, 0)

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-13
That 'old' log-file shows the system is using the open-source **nv** driver, not the **nvidia** proprietary 3D accelerator, which is I think what you want?
```

(II) LoadModule: "nv"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//nv_drv.so
(II) Module nv: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 2.1.8
	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 2.0

```
I think you need to clean up the system, remove the things you've tried so you can start from a clean base again.

You'll have to work out how to remove Envy and/or the video drivers it installs.

For the **nvidia** driver you can un-install it using the same program used to install it (adjust this command to match the name of the NVIDIA package you have):
```

sudo NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-173.14.12-pkg2 --uninstall

```
To un-install the Ubuntu nvidia package:
```

sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx-new

```
To un-install the **nv** open-source driver:
```

sudo apt-get --purge remove xserver-xorg-video-nv

```
Log-out of Gnome then switch to a text console using Ctrl+Alt+F1, log-in, and then stop Gnome display manager:
```

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

```
Now re-install the Ubuntu **nvidia** proprietary package:
```

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new

```
Remove the existing Xorg log files so we don't get confused:
```

sudo rm /var/log/Xorg.0.log*

```
Restart Gnome and report the result. Check if it is using the **nvidia** driver. You should expect to see something like this:
```

egrep 'nvidia|glx' /var/log/Xorg.0.log

(II) "glx" will be loaded. This was enabled by default and also specified in the config file.
(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so
(II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
(II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//nvidia_drv.so
(II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"

```
If there's no sign of nvidia mentioned like that, check the 'old' file:
```

egrep 'nvidia|glx' /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old

```

---

### Post by smokyboy0 on 2008-09-14
As a side note let me use the previous post to compare driver installation in linux vs. windows. Don't get me wrong, I recently switched wins for ubuntu and I am totally satisfied with my decision, but this complicated modular nature of linux is probably what turns the most users away from linux in the first place. A myriad of options and combinations of gazillion possible packages from the command line that interact in the most mysterious ways is the highest leap a user has to make when switching the OS. E.g. glx, nv, nvidia, xserver, dri, xorg, restricted, kernel modules, ... I am getting a headache. Does it really have to be so layered?

PS. With linux networking the situation is probably even worse - I am totally unable to get my laptop connect to any wireless, and the only solution seems to be rebuilding the kernel with a bunch of packages which will probably wreck havoc on other parts of my system. So till I get to the guru status, I'll pass.

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-14
OK.  I went through and started from scratch.  I tried using the nvidia-glx-new drivers and I still got a blank screen.  I've been digging through some logs.  Here's what I have:


In both the Xorg.0.log and the .old 
```

(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so
(II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
	compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
	Module class: X.Org Server Extension
	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 0.1
(II) NVIDIA GLX Module  169.12  Thu Feb 14 18:34:02 PST 2008
(II) Loading extension GLX

```

Later on in the same files..
```

(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)

```

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-14
Well done! Now we know where things stand it will be much easier to figure out what is wrong, and, if it can be sorted out, how to do that.

Can you please attach the entire log file that contains the:
```

(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)

```
since the messages leading up to that will probably give us some firm clues.

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-14
I've attached the output of Xorg.0.log in an attached text file.  It is the exact same file as the .old version.

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-14
Okay, that log file shows that the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file being used is loading the *open source* nv driver:
```

(II) LoadModule: "nv"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//nv_drv.so
(II) Module nv: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 2.1.8
	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 2.0

```
which should have been removed by the previous
```

sudo apt-get --purge remove xserver-xorg-video-nv

```
Does dpkg show that package as still installed?
```

dpkg-query -s xserver-xorg-video-nv

```
Make sure that is uninstalled then reconfigure the xserver:
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-14
OK I have nvidia-glx-new installed and the other package was purged.  Then I ran:
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```

It boots with a 1024x768 resolution and the restricted drivers are not in use.

odd.

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-14
> **polygone said:**
> OK I have nvidia-glx-new installed and the other package was purged.  Then I ran:
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```

It boots with a 1024x768 resolution and the restricted drivers are not in use.

odd.

So which xorg driver is in use?

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-14
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new
```

That should be the only thing installed.

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-14
> **polygone said:**
> 
It boots with a 1024x768 resolution and the restricted drivers are not in use.
The restricted drivers are in the package **nvidia-glx-new**.

What driver does the current /var/log/Xorg.log show being used (vesa, nvidia, nv) ?

Please attach that log-file if in doubt so we don't get confused.

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-14
I am just going to post it.  :)

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-14
That shows the fail-safe VESA driver is in use:
```

(II) LoadModule: "vesa"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//vesa_drv.so
(II) Module vesa: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 1.3.0
	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 2.0

...

(--) VESA(0): Virtual size is 1024x768 (pitch 1024)

```
So the failed log should be in /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old. Check what log files exist and compare their times to this recent log. The failed log should have a time that is almost the same:
```

ls -lstr /var/log/Xorg*

```
Attach the failed log which should contain the details of the nvidia driver loading attempt. You can tell if you open it in gedit or another text editor by all the entries prefixed "NVIDIA (0)".

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-14
Weird.  It looks like it was using it then, too.

```

60 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 53557 2008-09-14 20:57 /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old
60 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 53557 2008-09-14 21:05 /var/log/Xorg.0.log


```

Edit: It does say I am using the vesa.  How can I force it to use the other?

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-14
That file also shows the VESA driver in use :confused:

I have been assuming that doing the dpkg-reconfigure wrote a new, good, xorg.conf using the nvidia driver but it seems like something has gone wrong there, too.

Show the list of xorg configuration files:
```

ls -lstr /etc/X11/

```
and attach two files:

xorg.conf
xorg.failsafe.conf

We'll get to the bottom of this soon!

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-14
Yeah, lol.  It's really blowing my mind.

Here is the output of that command:

```
total 96
 4 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root   265 2008-05-13 20:10 Xsession.options
 4 -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root  3730 2008-05-13 20:10 Xsession
20 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 17394 2008-05-13 20:10 rgb.txt
 4 drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2008-07-02 05:49 xkb
 4 drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2008-07-02 05:51 Xresources
 4 -rw------- 1 root root   614 2008-07-02 05:51 Xwrapper.config
 4 drwxr-xr-x 6 root root  4096 2008-07-02 05:57 fonts
 4 drwxr-xr-x 3 root root  4096 2008-07-02 06:02 xinit
 4 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root    14 2008-07-02 06:06 default-display-manager
 4 drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2008-07-02 06:08 app-defaults
 4 drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2008-07-02 06:10 cursors
 4 drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2008-07-02 06:10 xserver
 4 drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2008-07-02 06:13 Xsession.d
 0 lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root    13 2008-09-14 10:40 X -> /usr/bin/Xorg
 4 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  1326 2008-09-14 15:14 xorg.conf.20080914151401
 4 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  1353 2008-09-14 16:44 xorg.conf.20080914164445
 4 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  1225 2008-09-14 20:42 xorg.conf.20080914204218
 4 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  1353 2008-09-14 20:52 xorg.conf.20080914205244
 4 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  1353 2008-09-14 20:56 xorg.conf.20080914205602
 4 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  1253 2008-09-14 20:56 xorg.conf
 4 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  1253 2008-09-14 21:03 xorg.conf.20080914210325

```

I just posted all the xorg.conf files I could find.  I didn't find a failsafe, anywhere.

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-14
That looks okay. The issue seems to be that no xorg.conf has been created for the **nvidia** driver, so it is always using the default **vesa** driver... hence nothing actually fails and no fail-safe configuration is present.

Of those xorg.conf files the one that has the nvidia driver is **xorg.conf.20080914205244**.

Please report the output of:
```

dpkg-query -l '*nvidia*'

```
so we can be triple-sure the nvidia package is installed.

If you see **ii** in the first column on the line with nvidia-glx-new then try renaming the xorg configuration file mentioned above and restart X:
```

cd /etc/X11
sudo mv xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup
sudo mv xorg.conf.20080914205244 xorg.conf

```
Now log-out so as to restart X and see if the nvidia configuration is used successfully. Check the latest /var/log/xorg.0.log file to see if it uses the nvidia driver:
```

grep NVIDIA /var/log/xorg.0.log

```
If that command results in a lot of lines that contain "NVIDIA(0)" then the nvidia driver is in use. If it doesn't then report the timestamps on the logs, and attach the most recent two:
```

ls -lstr /var/log/xorg*

```
which will be xorg.0.log and, hopefully, xorg.0.log.old :)

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-15
OK, it looks to be installed:

```
un  nvidia-glx     <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-glx-ia3 <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-glx-leg <none>         (no description available)
ii  nvidia-glx-new 169.12+2.6.24. NVIDIA binary XFree86 4.x/X.Org 'new' driver
un  nvidia-glx-src <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-kernel- <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-kernel- <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-kernel- <none>         (no description available)
ii  nvidia-kernel- 20051028+1ubun NVIDIA binary kernel module common files
un  nvidia-new-ker <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-setting <none>         (no description available)
un  nvidia-xconfig <none>         (no description available)

```

I backed up my xorg.conf and switched over to the one you listed.  When I rebooted, I got no signal, again.
I attached the two logs.... *Ahhh! lol

---

### Post by nbayiha on 2008-09-15
Try this thread . using this driver
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_173.14.12.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_173.14.12.html)

Use the tricky way and you should have it fix. If you encounter any problem ,using that thread , please report your problem there.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=880787&highlight=install+nvidia+driver+hardy](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=880787&highlight=install+nvidia+driver+hardy) 

Ps: Use the Tricky Way (uninstall everything u installed before with nvidia.)

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-15
I've tried that other solution, 'the tricky way', a couple of times.  Each time I do, it actually boots into gdm, but it is like 800 x 600.  I let the installer update xorg.  In this method, it shows you doing it manually.  It actually has an nVidia panel in the system menu, but it always says I am not using it.  So, maybe I just got up to the point where it's installed and not added to xorg.

I've already been working with intuitive, so, if we don't come up with anything, I'll try manually configuring xorg and doing it that way.  I just don't want to mess anything up, if he is still working on a solution the other way.

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-15
> **polygone said:**
> 
I backed up my xorg.conf and switched over to the one you listed.  When I rebooted, I got no signal, again.
I attached the two logs.... *Ahhh! lol
Something doesn't quite add-up here. Both those logs are showing the VESA driver loading, not the NVIDIA.

The 'no-signal' symptom might actually be a sign that the NVIDIA driver has loaded and is working *but* that the monitor settings are out of range and therefore the monitor refuses.

That might make sense because I recall the xorg.conf with the NVIDIA driver settings I recommend you use didn't have any monitor resolution or frequency timing values in it.

That is because most modern monitors can provide the system with EDID (Extended Display Information Data) that allows the video system to configure with the optimum settings for the monitor.

What is getting in the way is the *user-friendly*(!!) Hardy feature of fail-safe fall-back to the VESA driver if the configured driver doesn't start correctly. That is moving the xorg.conf and log-files we want to see and confusing the diagnosis, as you've probably realised by now.

Ideally you need someone in front of that system that knows what they're doing, or is remotely connected using ssh, because trying to diagnose the problem via forum ping-pong is just confusing both of us more, and dragging out the discovery of a solution.

From other forum posts I know that the 8500GT video chip-set is supported by the Hardy nvidia-glx-new driver so it isn't necessary to try other versions of the driver (although upgrading once the thing is working might be worthwhile).
What is needed right now is to get the chip-set and monitor settings in xorg.conf correct.

Let's have a go at customising the xorg.conf with settings for the monitor. What make and model is the monitor, and what do you know of its specifications (optimum resolution, horizontal scan and vertical refresh frequencies) ?

We'll edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf so it has something like this:
```

Section "Monitor"
  Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
  VendorName     "Unknown"
  ModelName      "Unknown"
  HorizSync      29.0 - 65.0
  VertRefresh    55.0 - 77.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
  Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Defaultdepth 24
EndSection

```

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-15
Yeah, I don't want to have you waste your time any more than I already have.  Again, thank you for helping.  

I don't have the exact model on me, but it is an HDTV.  I am using a DVI -> HDMI connector.  I know it has worked with the restricted drivers on the older 6600GT card.  So, I know it is possible.  Everything worked fine....desktop effects and all...It's just that this isn't really a 'standard' LCD monitor, so we're not going to get EDID.(or at least that's what it seems)  What's weird is I think it actually detected everything fine, with the older driver and card.  It was simply a matter of checking 'the box' and rebooting. 

It's a 37" Olevia with a max of 720p.  I will do some digging and try to find the ranges it will accept.

Edit:  You know, I could probably reboot with the driver installed, get the black screen and then boot back into the recovery's command line.  Then, I could copy the xorg.conf it's using to something else.  Then, go and restore back to the Vesa.  At least we could see what's going on.  I am at work, now, but I'll try it when I get home....

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-15
[http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=2466767](http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=2466767)

That is pretty much it to a 'T'. Edit: It's the exact model.

Check the bottom --> PC Input-HDMI, VGA-1360 x 768 @60 Hz

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-15
OK. I enabled the drivers, rebooted into recovery and went into root. I made a copy of the xorg.conf, restored to the vesa drivers and looked at the copy.  It was loading nVidia, but it seems a bit simple.  I have it below.


Edit:

SO I am thinking I would have to add this:

I got the monitor info from here:

[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Modeline_Database#Olevia_537h](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/index.php/Modeline_Database#Olevia_537h)


```

Section "Monitor"
       Identifier      "OleviaHDTV"
       VendorName      "Olevia"
       ModelName       "537h"
       VertRefresh     50-80
       HorizSync       30-85
       Modeline "1360x768" 72.000 1360 1424 1456 1560 768 771 776 790 -hsync +vsync
       DisplaySize     457 812
EndSection
Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation GeForce 8500 GT"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1360x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection


```

Edit:

OK, I've tried using several variants of what I have above.  I enabled my drivers before I edited the xorg.conf.  I could see where it said to load the nVidia driver.  I copied the log from this attempt.  It seems to crash here:

```
(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so
(II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
```

More info:
After rooting through some of the logs, I noticed the television seems to give off it's EDID when booting into vesa.  It produces an ID and all, so I am not sure that is the problem.

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-16
OK, I got it to actually give me a screen, when I use the restricted drivers.  The only thing is that is freaks out and goes into 800x600 mode.  Here is my xorg config that got me to this point.

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
       Identifier      "OleviaHDTV"
       VendorName      "Olevia"
       ModelName       "537h"
       VertRefresh     50-80
       HorizSync       30-85
       Modeline "1360x768" 72.000 1360 1424 1456 1560 768 771 776 790 -hsync +vsync
       DisplaySize     457 812
EndSection


Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Videocard0"
Monitor "OleviaHDTV"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Viewport 0 0
Depth 24
Modes "1360x768_60" "1280x720_60"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

```

In the logs, though, it seems to fail at this point.
```
(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)
```

....which doesn't make sense because it shows the driver in use in the GUI and it's listed in xorg.conf

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-16
Nice one! You're finally making some progress. Carry on your own investigations, but I'll go over these recent results of yours and see if there's anything I can suggest.

Before focusing too much on the apparent GLX issue please (after all the fuss we've had!) be triple-sure that when you have a working display that **the active session is using nvidia** - if it is, the /var/log/xorg.0.log will show the nvidia driver loaded and plenty of lines with "NVIDIA(0)" in them.

The xorg.0.log attached to comment #34 was incomplete so I can't make a judgement from that.

---

### Post by polygone on 2008-09-17
OK, I've been a bit busy with school and I've had to reinstall tortoise at work(subversion freaking out), so I wasn't messing with it.  I sat down, today, though.  It seems my xorg.conf file shows me using the setting I have above.  When I look at the GUI for the restricted drivers, it says they're enabled and in use.  In the logs, though it seems like it fails and ends up loading Vesa, anyway.  It's like it's got a mind of it's own.  I am in safe graphics mode, as I type this.  So, I guess is *isn't* using the right driver, even though it says it is.


.....mindblowing

---

