---
title: "S.o.s"
date: 2010-08-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by karafich on 2010-08-11
i'm stuck guys 
i went through the steps in this website 
[COLOR="DarkOrchid"]http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/virtualbox[/COLOR]
it said when i got to the partition NO Operating System on this machine, it didn't give me the option to install side by side choosing between Ubuntu or Windows, in fact there's Windows 7.
how come it didn't detect it and tries to erase the whole hard disk and i stopped the installation and Quit.
why it didn't detect windows 7?
it shows in the tutorial Windows 7 but why it didn't happen with mine.
i'm using the virtual box 
i don't want to lose everything, i want to make sure all it's going to be Okey
any suggestions guys?
thank you in advance.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2010-08-12
> **karafich said:**
> i went through the steps in this website 
[COLOR=DarkOrchid]http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/virtualbox[/COLOR]
it said when i got to the partition NO Operating System on this machine, it didn't give me the option to install side by side choosing between Ubuntu or Windows, in fact there's Windows 7.

If I am not getting it wrong then here is your situation:-

[LIST]
[*]You have Win7 previously installed on your computer,
[*]You have installed VirtualBox on Win7,
[*]Now you are trying to install Ubuntu **"inside"** VirtualBox.
[/LIST]
 Now if this is correct, then there is nothing to worry about. You are just a little bit confused between '**actual**' side-by-side installation & installation '**inside' VirtualBox**, and I won't blame you because it is not clearly mentioned on that tutorial page.

**The hard disk seen by VirtualBox is actually just a file residing within your Windows folder** & hence is 'virtual'. It is not your real 'Physical' hard disk (unless you manually 'force' VirtualBox to use a 'physical' drive).

So whatever you see (or don't see)** in** VirtualBox's drive is residing inside that one file or its segments located within a folder on Windows, and it has nothing to do with your existing setup or data.

Since you have just created that file (when you created the 'virtual machine' for ubuntu), it is blank. Think of it as a newly purchased hard disk which has no data, no partitions in it. Just go ahead with all default options and you are absolutely safe!

If you have any doubts, please ask. Virtualization is a really good & useful thing to learn.



[I][If you are interested in more details, you may like this thread: "**[[COLOR=DarkRed][B]Virtualization Mega Thread**[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=973756")[/B]" by- bodhi.zazen]
[/I]

---

