---
title: "9.10 on USB HD boot fails on laptop; OK on desktop computer"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ibexslam on 2009-11-08
I installed the Koala onto an external USB hard drive so I could boot up from several different computers (not at the same time). Works beautifully on several different desktop computers I've tried it on, but I'm having a problem when I try to boot up using a new Acer laptop.

The screen with the small white Ubuntu logo comes up, then there's a text screen that reads 

    Starting init crypto disks...

    Ubuntu 9.10 [name of computer] tty1

    [name of computer] login:

...and the screen flickers like crazy and can't really accept typed input -- it only captures some of the keypresses, as if it's extremely preoccupied with something else.

I tried hitting Alt-Prt Scr-R, then E, and the flickering stopped.  It then prompted for a login again, so I tried that, and my login was accepted.  A few more lines of text showed up:

    Last login: (etc.)
    Linux [name of computer] 2.6.31-14-generic (etc.)

    To access official Ubuntu documentation, (etc.)

    0 packages can be updated.
    0 updates are security updates.

    [username]@[name of computer]:~$ (blinking prompt)

If I enter "exit", it takes me back to the login.

Any idea how to get past this stuff and get on with the boot?  Any help will be greatly appreciated.

I.

---

### Post by ibexslam on 2009-11-10
Oh...now I get it. For those of you who may be new to linux forums, when you ask a question and get no response at all, that stands for one of two messages:

"Try googling your problem before bothering us." 

or 

"You should be able to figure it out for yourself."

As it turns out, googling does lead to an answer in this case. Or several answers. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1315319](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1315319), for example. I should have known.

I.

---

### Post by jorvay on 2009-11-16
Well if it makes you feel any better, when googling for a solution to this, I found your thread before the one you link to.  So thank you for providing a path to the solution.

---

