---
title: "8.04 suspend, white screen on resume"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by EricDB on 2008-04-25
So far I'm THRILLED with the out-of-the-box experience on 8.04 (many things "just work" that I really had to sweat for in 7.10).  In particular, suspend/resume seems much more reliable than it once was.

However, I've run into two related issues.  

1) I can't seem to turn off the screen locking after a resume from suspend.  I ran gconf-editor and unchecked everything in "apps/gnome-power-manager/lock" section, and I disabled screen locking in the screensaver preferences.  But it still wants a password upon resume.

2) After activating the restricted nvidia driver, the screen is blank white after resuming from suspend.  If I type my password and hit enter, the desktop appears and everything is normal.

I feel like if I could solve the first problem, the second would become irrelevant.

---

### Post by stults on 2008-04-27
I am also having this exact same issue, and thankfully, this is my only issue!  I have a nVidia Quadro NVS 135M on my laptop though.  I hope to hear a solution soon.

---

### Post by Syke on 2008-04-27
> **EricDB said:**
> 2) After activating the restricted nvidia driver, the screen is blank white after resuming from suspend.  If I type my password and hit enter, the desktop appears and everything is normal.You can also press <alt>s to refresh the login screen.

---

### Post by maxdamage2122 on 2008-04-27
Same here.

> **Syke said:**
> You can also press <alt>s to refresh the login screen.

<alt>s does work and refreshes the screen but it is still annoying to wait for it to refresh.  I've been searching for hours and still haven't found a solution.

---

### Post by kurtpete on 2008-04-27
I had this same issue and was able to turn off password entry on resume by first commenting out this line in /etc/default/acpi-support :

# Comment this out to disable screen locking on resume
#LOCK_SCREEN=true

...and then unchecking apps/gnome-power-manager/lock/suspend using the configuration editor.  Hope that helps.  This is on a Dell m1210 with a nVidia go7400.

---

### Post by westdale on 2008-04-27
Related problem on Compaq Presario 1500 laptop.
On hitting power button for resume from standby, I get the password entry box but the keyboard is not causing any letters (big dots) to enter
- therefore I am locked out. Will try alt-S to see if that helps if I get the same problem again. 

Otherwise, as others say above - Heron is great so far.

<later> Tried again - same problem - alt-s and alt-S had no effect.
<later2> disabled the resume password - thanks for the tip

---

### Post by EricDB on 2008-04-27
> **kurtpete said:**
> I had this same issue and was able to turn off password entry on resume by first commenting out this line in /etc/default/acpi-support :

# Comment this out to disable screen locking on resume
#LOCK_SCREEN=true

...and then unchecking apps/gnome-power-manager/lock/suspend using the configuration editor.  Hope that helps.  This is on a Dell m1210 with a nVidia go7400.

I've done this, and it's STILL asking me for a password, under 8.04.

**Edit:** I still have a thing or two to learn.  I was doing **sudo** gconf-editor.  Eventually I realized that this would change preferences for the root user, not for the one I use.  Problem solved.

---

### Post by andrewbrown22 on 2008-04-28
I have a similar issue, after I try to resume from a suspend, about every 5th or so time, I lose the ability to move my mouse or even type with the keyboard on the laptop. 
Only solution is to restart the computer and go from there.
What could be the problem?

---

### Post by hariprs on 2008-04-28
I am also facing similar problem. If i do a userswitch and logout from the 2nd user my screen goes white, but if i enter password(blindly) for the first user i can enter to 1st users desktop.

---

### Post by bilal.17 on 2008-04-28
i also have the same problem when resuming from suspend
looks like its a bug

---

### Post by dasunst3r on 2008-04-28
This bug is confirmed.  Please see the following:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/dell/+bug/160264](https://bugs.launchpad.net/dell/+bug/160264)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24/+bug/160264](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24/+bug/160264)

---

### Post by zach382 on 2008-04-29
I can confirm the problem as well. 

Thanks for the alt + s tip.

---

### Post by dasunst3r on 2008-04-29
Alt+S meant "Switch User" for me.

---

### Post by cespinal on 2008-05-14
I found this solution for this bug... it has worked for me so far: 

Go to System --> Administration --> Software Sources and select the Third-Party Software tab. Click on Add and enter the following line:

    deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu) hardy main

Then click on Add again and enter the following line:

    deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/superm1/ubuntu) hardy main

Click on Close, then on Reload. Shortly your software updater will indicate that there are updates available for compiz. Install them, restart your machine and you are done. 

credit here goes to mario limoncello which came up with this fix and published it on launchpad 

cheers

---

### Post by andreselsuave on 2008-05-21
Thank you cespinal !!! it works on my hp 8710p !!! 
I'm very grateful, i had been searching a lot and didn't find an answer and now fast-switching users and suspending works perfectly !! now I only have to fix the problem with the Ricoh card reader and the Sound card.

Andreselsuave

---

### Post by cespinal on 2008-05-26
Some times in find it more usefull to search for solutions in google rather than on the ubuntu forums... that was how I came up with a solution for the blank screen prob... 

Anyways, Im glad I helped! keep searching for the solutions..

---

### Post by SebbyT on 2008-06-05
Thank you very much Cespinal! I've been looking for a solution for resume from sleep (suspend to RAM) for a long time - tried all kinds of solutions, none of which worked, and I'd pretty much given up. I've been running for a 3 weeks since upgrading Compiz per your instructions and have had no problems - yeehaw! (Dell Latitude D630, nVidia Quadro NVS 135M-rev a1, Compiz)

---

### Post by cespinal on 2008-06-09
Nice to hear that! 

However, hibernation keeps giving me headaches tho...

---

### Post by peddy on 2008-06-15
Mario's fix doesn't work for me. Perhaps because I'm using 64-bit?

I have a Sparkle nVidia 8800 640mb GTS 

Cheers

---

### Post by adm1968 on 2008-06-15
[FONT="Georgia"]I followed your instructions for my Vaio VGN-TX, but kept getting the blank screen
:(

Have just 'switched' off Compiz altogether

Thanks all the same![/FONT]

---

### Post by adm1968 on 2008-06-16
No chance!
Even with Compiz off, my Vaio refuses to come back to life 

:confused:

---

### Post by peddy on 2008-08-11
This is still affecting me. Supermario's packages didn't work, neither did patching Compiz manually. Changing virtual terminals after the screensaver has activated also causes a white screen.

Any news?

---

### Post by peddy on 2008-10-11
Problem still occurs in Intrepid Ibex beta 1.


Edit: White screen after resume from S3 suspend still occurs in Jaunty Jackalope Alpha 4.

---

### Post by linuxaek on 2011-01-11
I applied the cespinal's advice and update the system as he said. However it didn't work that I still got white screen after opening my laptop after suspending it(especially the chance I get this error increases with the suspending time). However, the alt + s then pressing enter (in my case alt + k for Turkish ubuntu) solved the problem(even reentering the username is needed).

---

