---
title: "HP dm1-3020us, 11.04:  Can't sleep/suspend."
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by seebs on 2011-04-30
So, I'm messing with ubuntu on the HP dm1 netbook, aka dm1z.  This is the Fusion E-350 machine.  Sleep: It doesn't.  If I close the lid it keeps running.  Fan still going, lights still on.  However, network services die.  Opening the lid leaves it still in this state; blank screen (but powered/backlit), but no response to pings, etc.  I tried manually requesting a sleep with pm-hibernate, which caused it to get as far as "s2disk: Snapshotting system" and then hang.  Possible issues include the ATI graphics drivers (using the proprietary ones, 11.4 release) or just the system being really new, or possibly BIOS settings, or... well, I really have no clue where to be looking for debugging clues.  I have it dual-booting Windows, which enters sleep mode within a few seconds after the lid is closed and recovers apparently fine.

---

### Post by Growlizing on 2011-04-30
Also seeing the same symptoms, but unsure how to go about debugging this.
Got a laptop with nvidia + intel graphics, with nvidia modules blacklisted so I only use the intel graphics.

---

### Post by devguy on 2011-05-02
I have the exact same problem, and it came about after installing Catalyst 11.4 on my DM1z.  Sleep worked fine out of the box in 11.04 with the open drivers.  Hopefully a fix will come soon...

---

### Post by benmann on 2011-05-11
Exact same setup, exact same problem. Any ideas?

---

### Post by nefan on 2011-05-11
The only solution I know of is to use the open source graphics drivers.

---

### Post by benmann on 2011-05-11
Are all the drivers available in Synaptic the open source ones? Which ones should I use? Sorry I'm a noob.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by nefan on 2011-05-11
Just go to System Settings -> Additional Drivers and remove the ATI Catalyst drivers. The open source drivers will automatically load after that.

---

### Post by devguy on 2011-05-11
Not fixed with Catalyst 11.5, BTW.  I'd advise you all to signify that this problem affects you as well on the [launchpad.]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/767975")

---

### Post by faydrus on 2011-06-15
I'm having the exact same problem -- hopefully Catalyst 11.6 will come out soon, and will fix it.

---

### Post by Redblade20XX on 2011-06-15
> **seebs said:**
> So, I'm messing with ubuntu on the HP dm1 netbook, aka dm1z.  This is the Fusion E-350 machine.  Sleep: It doesn't.  If I close the lid it keeps running.  Fan still going, lights still on.  However, network services die.  Opening the lid leaves it still in this state; blank screen (but powered/backlit), but no response to pings, etc.  I tried manually requesting a sleep with pm-hibernate, which caused it to get as far as "s2disk: Snapshotting system" and then hang.  Possible issues include the ATI graphics drivers (using the proprietary ones, 11.4 release) or just the system being really new, or possibly BIOS settings, or... well, I really have no clue where to be looking for debugging clues.  I have it dual-booting Windows, which enters sleep mode within a few seconds after the lid is closed and recovers apparently fine.

In 10.10 the sleep function works pretty good with the proprietary drivers while in 11.04 it doesn't work on the dm1z. So I suspect it is probably a configuration problem in 11.04, if anyone wants to get to the bottom of it. Can't debug it since 10.10 works good with me.

---

### Post by agentsteel on 2011-07-26
Hi everybody,

I noticed that on this model, some kernel modules prevent suspend/hibernate to operate properly. So we need to adjust pm-utils' configuration :

create  a text-file in /etc/pm/config.d/  (the filename is not important) :

# nano /etc/pm/config.d/mycustom.config

containing the following line :

SUSPEND_MODULES="hp_accel lis3lv02d"

then try again suspending/hibernating, it should work! :D

(those 2 kernel modules concern the accelerometer component in the computer)

Here are pointers for debugging suspend/hibernate issues :

[http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/KernelCommonProblems#Suspend.2FResume_failure](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/KernelCommonProblems#Suspend.2FResume_failure)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspend](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspend)

---

### Post by juanfi on 2011-07-28
Hi,

Thanks a lot, suspend now works like a charm on my Ubuntu 11.04 amd64, dm1-3210us, stock graphic drivers from ubuntu.

Juan

---

### Post by Stik on 2011-07-31
I applied this and it works great except that after I resume, when I type and my hand touches the touchpad, I get alot of mistype. It only does this after a resume. I do have the suse patches applied to the X synaptics module but I don't think that should make a difference.


Edit: Found that reloading the psmouse kernel module during resume fixes (Works around) this issue.

---

### Post by agentsteel on 2011-08-02
Noticed some mouse problems too on my OpenSuse 11.4 system, when resuming from disk.

(So far, out of several distros I tried, OpenSuse 11.4 was the only one that could do proper suspend to disk/resume)

Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by Praetor77 on 2011-08-30
This worked perfect. I was using open radeon driver with no problem but started having problems suspending after updating today. This solved my issues. Thanks!

---

