---
title: "42' 1080i TV as monitor"
date: 2008-12-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by cbilljones on 2008-12-10
Hi, i can only seem to get 1024x768 res, trying to get full HD going, ive broke my xorg.conf so many times i figured i should ask for help lol, heres my currant config;

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed Oct  1 15:09:35 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by laceration on 2008-12-11
I am glad to learn I am not the only wacko to use a 42" monitor.  However I 1080p monitor.  Computer monitors are generally progressive(p) as opposed to interlaced(i).  Progressive scans every line, interlaced scans alternate lines, getting the odd on one pass, even on the next.  This most probably has something to do your ability to achieve resolution.  Computer resolutions assume p, so I don't think you could expect 1080.   How are you hooked up to your monitor?  You can only get maximum res with dvi or dba.  You might consult the monitors manual to see if it mentions the resolution it will support over each type of connection.  But if you have less than modern monitor, no one probably thought of hooking it up to a computer and you might not find that info.  You might use Envy to get the best drivers and setup you can, but it looks like you already are using the propriety nvidia, so that might not do much for you.
For what its worth lcd panels are getting cheap and 42" is overkill for a monitor anyways.  After a certain point it just stretches things out and doesn't give you more real estate.  It is good for video though.

---

### Post by cbilljones on 2008-12-12
Ya, i have it tweaked enough now to play wow so im happy, lol; i'm just going to wait a bit and get a 32" for my main monitor and use the 42" for video

---

