---
title: "10.04 sometimes works slow"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Nixikanius on 2010-05-03
Yesterday I installed Ubuntu 10.04 on my laptop (Lenovo Y430) and now I have trouble with slow working Ubuntu after reboot about through time.

Slow working begins from logon screen (when I press Enter on my username there is a wrench of password field appearance), when I enter my password there is about 20 seconds delay before desktop appears on screen. Then, for example, I open my home folder and it takes about 7 seconds.

But there are good reboots of my laptop when Ubuntu works very fast. The same behavior was in 9.04 and in 8.10. 9.10 worked very well.

I have Ext4 FS in my root and home partiotions (20 Gb each).

In attachment of message there are dmesg logs of fast and slow reboots.

Does anyone have the same problem or can anyone help me to solve this problem please?

---

### Post by meho_r on 2010-05-03
I noticed couple of slowdowns, but seemed random to me.

---

### Post by jcam on 2010-05-06
same problem here, 6 to 7 secs just to open a folder. I'm on a 32bits install

going to switch to 64bit and have a try.

---

### Post by Nixikanius on 2010-05-06
> **jcam said:**
> going to switch to 64bit and have a try.

Please wite to this topic a result of switching to 64 bit.

---

### Post by jcam on 2010-05-09
hi,

same problem with 64bit, going to make a fresh install not changing the partition table, i have a suspicious that because my /, home, usr and boot are dedicated partitions instead of the typical install partition table, that is making things go slow.

right now I'm running openSUSE and it is not bad at all, it came with a lot of junk, and .deb repos has avery thing we can imagine without having to compile yourself, but openSUSE is a good option, the Germans build good CARS and also a very good Distro.

---

### Post by Nixikanius on 2010-05-09
> **jcam said:**
> i have a suspicious that because my /, home, usr and boot are dedicated partitions instead of the typical install partition table, that is making things go slow.

I don't think this is a reason. I have / and /home on different partitions and now running Ubuntu 9.10. All is good.

**jcam**, you have bad performance only in 10.04 or in 9.10 too?

---

### Post by jcam on 2010-05-12
hi, 

just in 10.04.

it has to do with nautilus, cause i switched to pcmanfm and its FAST.

---

### Post by huagc on 2010-05-21
I have the same issue in ubuntu 10.04 on my lenovo Y550 too!I have tested a lot of means to fix it,but no better.
It seems that only lenovo's notebook have this problem?

---

### Post by Nixikanius on 2010-05-22
> **huagc said:**
> It seems that only lenovo's notebook have this problem?

I think, there is at least one bad hardware element on Lenovo Y-series laptops. I'm looking for it for 1.5 years. :)

**huagc**, Ubuntu 9.10 works well on your laptop?

---

### Post by huagc on 2010-05-23
> **Nixikanius said:**
> I think, there is at least one bad hardware element on Lenovo Y-series laptops. I'm looking for it for 1.5 years. :)

**huagc**, Ubuntu 9.10 works well on your laptop?

Yes,Ubuntu 9.10 works well.:)

---

### Post by jetsam on 2010-05-23
Most computers get faster if you unplug the internet.  The only way to get a hot rod: kill your cable.

---

### Post by huagc on 2010-06-01
> **jetsam said:**
> most computers get faster if you unplug the internet.  The only way to get a hot rod: Kill your cable.

&#28961;&#39364;&#12391;&#12377;&#12290;

---

### Post by huagc on 2010-06-08
> **Nixikanius said:**
> Yesterday I installed Ubuntu 10.04 on my laptop (Lenovo Y430) and now I have trouble with slow working Ubuntu after reboot about through time.

Slow working begins from logon screen (when I press Enter on my username there is a wrench of password field appearance), when I enter my password there is about 20 seconds delay before desktop appears on screen. Then, for example, I open my home folder and it takes about 7 seconds.

But there are good reboots of my laptop when Ubuntu works very fast. The same behavior was in 9.04 and in 8.10. 9.10 worked very well.

I have Ext4 FS in my root and home partiotions (20 Gb each).

In attachment of message there are dmesg logs of fast and slow reboots.

Does anyone have the same problem or can anyone help me to solve this problem please?
I found where the problem is! It's seems that the problem is from the power manger,when i don't plug the ac-power in(before booting),there is no problem, or when i pull the battery out,there is no problem too!

---

