---
title: "14.04 DVD player won't work"
date: 2015-11-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by andydovey on 2015-11-20
Hi, I've installed Lubuntu 14.04 on a laptop and I can't get the DVD player to work.
It worked okay to install Lubuntu. 
As a result of my Googling, Restricted extras are installed as are libdvdcss2, libdvdread4, libdvdnav4.
The disk I'm using works on another laptop running Windows 7
I'm using VLC Player
System Profiler is showing the disk as being there but I can't get it to work.
The player is HL-DT-ST DVDRAM_GSA-T50N(RN06)
There are no additional Drivers available.
Any ideas how to make it work?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-11-20
In VLC go to **Media ->Open disk** in the menus and see what the device is named as.  I think you will need to set it as /dev/sr0 and I believe it was something else by default when I first used VLC.

You can set that as the default device in the Input/Codecs tab of **Tools ->Preferences** in the VLC menu.

---

### Post by andydovey on 2015-11-20
Hi Ajgreeny, thanks for that, it is already set to /dev/sr0 though.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-11-20
Have you tried any other player application? A lot of users swear by smplayer, but I have not used it for a long time.

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2015-11-20
This seems to be a slight problem for that ROM Drive
[https://www.google.com/search?q=HL-DT-ST+DVDRAM_GSA-T50N(RN06)+not+showing+in+ubuntu&oq=HL-DT-ST+DVDRAM_GSA-T50N(RN06)+not+showing+in+ubuntu&aqs=chrome..69i57.9669j0j7&client=ubuntu&sourceid=chrome&es_sm=122&ie=UTF-8](https://www.google.com/search?q=HL-DT-ST+DVDRAM_GSA-T50N(RN06)+not+showing+in+ubuntu&oq=HL-DT-ST+DVDRAM_GSA-T50N(RN06)+not+showing+in+ubuntu&aqs=chrome..69i57.9669j0j7&client=ubuntu&sourceid=chrome&es_sm=122&ie=UTF-8)
Most of the fix's were done with windows though:(

---

### Post by andydovey on 2015-11-20
Hi! Thanks for that, it looks as though the problem can be fixed in Windows registry but I can't figure out how to do it in Lubuntu! I've tried using Gnome Mplayer with no luck. Judging by other bits I've found on Google, it looks as though 14.01 has some problems of this type, should I try 15.10 and then change to the next long term support in April do you think?

---

