---
title: "8.04 to 8.10, No video, GeForce 7300 GT"
date: 2009-05-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by drubdrub on 2009-05-02
Been using a very stable 8.04 release for months.  Great stuff.
Intel CPU[LIST]
[/LIST]
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7300 GT] (rev a1)
```

Trying to transition from 8.04  -->  8.10  --> 9.04

Made the first step from 8.04 --> 8.10.  The upgrade proceeded without a hitch.  All appeared good.  Reboot the system.
- The login screen appears normally
- Supply login credentials
- The screen stays black

I ssh() to the 8.10 system from another system ...

/etc/X11/xorg.conf looks like:
```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Option          "UseFBDev"              "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

Looks like X is not properly configured.  So, run
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
No change to /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Hitting a key on the 8.10 system displays a graphics window with this text.

```
Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode

The following error was encountered.  You may need to update your configuration to solve this.

(EE) Unable to find a valid framebuffer device
(EE) NV(0): Failed to open framebuffer device.  consult
warnings and/or errors above for possible reasons
(EE) Screen(s) found.  but none hace a usable configuration.
```

Looking in /var/log/Xorg.0.log shows the NV driver being loaded.  That log file is attached to this posting.

[LIST]
[*]What is the next step?
[*]Does this mean the driver is not loaded?  Looking at the log file suggests it is loaded.
[*]I grabbed the latest driver, from the Nvidia site, but hesitate to install it until I verify that is the issue.
[/LIST]
```
wget http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/180.51/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.51-pkg1.run
```

Attached to this posting is /var/log/Xorg.0.log

Thanks!!

---

### Post by Barry Carroll on 2009-05-02
I've used the opensource nv driver in the past but I don't remember having to set the fbdev option

```
Option          "UseFBDev"              "true"

```

The driver that you downloaded will be the 'nvidia' driver which is the binary one from Nvidia themselves and I think you can install that one though apt-get.

Have you tried to set UseFBDev to false?

---

### Post by drubdrub on 2009-05-06
An update ...  Sitting here scratching my head ... 

Did a lot of work via ssh() from another system to the target system, since the video was mis-configured following the 8.04 --> 8.10 upgrade.

Thank you Barry.  Tried the suggestion.  No change.

Seemed odd to me that the login screen displayed just fine, since that is a graphics mode screen.  Supplied login credentials, and the screen went to black.  Some time later, error windows began appearing.  They said such things as "The video is configured incorrectly" (paraphrased), Offered 3 choices, one of which was to reconfigure the video.  Tried all those options.  Same results.  One option was to run in low-res mode, which I did.

Also tried using an older xorg.conf file, one that was used by the previously working system.  No good.  Didn't help.

I was running out of ideas.  Cruised the web at length trying to gather more tricks.  Could not make a difference.
In low-res mode, **upgraded from 8.10 --> 9.04**.  I'm now typing on an **operable system**.  This is good.  :biggrin:  One improvement is being able to use the monitor's highest resolution, 1920 * 1200.  In 8.04, had to settle for a slightly lower resolution.  1920 * 1200 did not work.  Sceptre X24WG-1080P.  

The remaining issues
[LIST=1]
[*]Not able to alter the "Visual Effects".  Set to "None".  Cannot use "Normal" or "Extra".  An error window appears with the message "Desktop effects could not be enabled".  System --> Preferences --> Appearance, "Visual Effects" tab.
[*]Cannot use the serial consoles.  Normally they can be used by <ctl><alt><Function N>.  The system cannot shift out of graphics mode.
[/LIST]
compiz window manager freezes after the final line, with "aborting".  compiz output:
```
$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 
```

No errors, (EE), or warnings (WW), are displayed in /var/log/xorg.0.log.  The /var/log/Xorg.0.log file is attached as Xorg.0.txt (so the Forum site allows the upload).

The current xorg.conf
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
```

---

