---
title: "U300s"
date: 2011-12-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by GerhardK90 on 2011-12-01
Got my Lenovo Ideapad U300S three weeks ago and tried Ubuntu 11.10 on it. 

I hoped I'll get nice multitouch and fluent scrolling in it. 

The Problems I figured out:

- Battery just get sucked in about 2 hours. (In windows7 I achieve about 7 hours with office work and low screen light)

- Even when it goes to sleep or standby the battery leaves me alone in short time

- No Multitouch Support at all (It got Cypress Semiconductor) 
  BUT THE TOUCHPAD WORKED!!! And I could scroll with its right side..

____________________________

Anyone else tried Ubuntu on his/her ultrabook (maybe Asus ux31 or Acer S3??) 

And could anyone fix the problems??

---

### Post by terry.r on 2011-12-06
May I ask where you got your U300s from?  Even after contacting Lenovo they say it is not available.  feel free to msg me if you feel it is not appropriate to say where you bought it on a public forum.

---

### Post by imdano on 2011-12-06
I bought the orange, 256GB model from [www.newegg.com](www.newegg.com) Saturday night.  It just got delivered this afternoon.  I'm giving it a spin right now in Windows, but I'm going to try putting Ubuntu on it later tonight.

---

### Post by imdano on 2011-12-07
Ok, I installed 11.10 last night, my issues are as follows:
1) Hibernate and suspend both don't work.  When I try to suspend I get stuck at a black screen, and when I hibernate it appears to work, but when I resume it acts as if I did a full shut down.

2) Touch pad behavior isn't very good.  The right click button doesn't work at all (it acts like a left click), though you can get right click functionality by tapping the bottom right corner of the keyboard or two-finger pressing the clickpad.  Trying to drag & drop is also difficult because of the way multi-touch gets handled.  Edge scrolling works, though.

3) After downloading powertop and making all the changes it suggested, my estimated battery life was only about 3:40 on Ubuntu, which is a lot lower than what I was seeing with Windows.  I think this is more of a general Linux issue than anything specific to the U300s, though.

---

### Post by terry.r on 2011-12-07
> **imdano said:**
> I bought the orange, 256GB model from [www.newegg.com]("http://www.newegg.com") Saturday night.  It just got delivered this afternoon.  I'm giving it a spin right now in Windows, but I'm going to try putting Ubuntu on it later tonight.

Ah thanks.  Too bad they show "Out of stock" now :(

Good luck getting your mouse, hibernate/sleep, and battery life working peoperly.

---

### Post by jabz on 2011-12-07
Awww.... exactly what I did not want to read. I'm planning to buy the U300s. Actually, I have an eye on it since they published the first pictures.

I've read about some issues regarding the Intel chips, and that the Linux community hasn't come up with a kernel package that can handle them. I believe that's what's causing the rapid battery consumption. 
Don't ask where I read it, I was just googleling the tech specs together with the keywords "linux", "ubuntu" and "arch linux".

Guess I better wait with this investment until the dust has settled. 
Good luck & all the best!

Keep us posted about any progress you make. ;)

---

### Post by GerhardK90 on 2011-12-08
Well I am living in germany and got it from [http://www.digitrends.biz/](http://www.digitrends.biz/).

However... did someone get it to work properly? What xp do you have with the System at all? I really like the keyboard and the screen is not as bad as a lot reviews say... The touchpad works really good on windows but it is not exactly in the middle of its hole.. do you have the same?? The upper right corner actually is a bit higher than the rest...

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-08
Hi guys, may I join this thread --- I just got a U300s.

I got it in Hong Kong, where they have run out of the Asus zenbook, which was the other ultrabook I was looking at. The U300s was a little more expensive but the salesguy told me it was designed to be a little more robust, probably bs but anyway I went ahead and got the lenovo. By the way, the current shortages are caused by the floods in Thailand where some crucial components are built.

Windows works flawlessly, and for the first time ever I didn't feel I had to clean install. There isn't much bloatware, once you remove all the windows components ;-)

In my experience the touchpad doesn't work properly.  The right-click button acts like the left-click button. I have the same problem with my HP-DV6. There is a kernel patch you can find that's supposed to fix it, but I haven't tried yet. Anyone here familiar with these patches and can vouch for one (there are so many versions of them, scary)?

The good news is that I was able to get synaptiks to take control of the touchpad and have configured the "suspend touchpad while typing" option, which is an essential feature. This works well. The other great news is that the touchpad does not go wild the way it does on some machines like my DV6.

One workaround I use on my HP-DV6 is to disable the touchpad altogether  and use it as a psmouse. But unfortunately I can't then suspend the psmouse while typing (is that possible anyone?).

Apart from a few quirks that may be more related with my inability than with the machine's, so far a great experience: graphics settings, wireless, volume, video, usb, everything I've tried works --- only problem, the touchpad.

P.S.

Here are the things that got me thinking while preparing my machine for  Ubuntu. The U300s came with a "hibernation" partition, in addition to  the "boot" partition, the "windows" partition (C drive, with an extended  D drive), and a "recovery" partition. Needless to say, there is no need  for all this. I made the 3 recovery DVDs following the onetouch  software instruction (I think it's called onetouch, or some name like  that). Then I used the start -> computer -> manage -> disk  management tool to delete partitions. I had no hesitation in removing  the recovery partition. And I must add that the onetouch (or whatever)  software is very good about it, it doesn't mindlessly try to boot where  it can't, it just lets you know it's powerless and that's that.  I  wasn't sure if I could delete the hibernation partition, it seemed like a  good idea to have one, but then it led to some confusion while  attempting to install Ubuntu, so I resolved to let it go as well. The  problem had something to do with the partitions deleted with the Windows  software were still visible to Ubuntu's superior visual ability, so I  decided to let Ubuntu delete all the superfluous partitions, keeping  only the "boot" (sda1) and the "windows" partition (sda2). For some  reason, ubuntu wouldn't create a swap partition, even though I hadn't  exhausted the admissible number of primary and extended partitions,  oh well whatever, I read somewhere that you can live without a swap partition with today's  i-7 machines, I hope it's true.

Edit:
P.S.2

I have used the "sleep" feature without any problem. I don't see any "hibernate" option. My machine boots in like 10 seconds, so I don't plan to hibernate anyhow.

P.S.3

Awesome battery life on both Windows and Ubuntu. I mean, a life-changing sort of battery life. Has anyone noticed how light the adapter is? I can't get over how awesome this machine is.

Hey guys, I have 6 or 7 hours battery life here, on both Windows and Kubuntu (K-ubuntu, could that make a difference?)

---

### Post by imdano on 2011-12-08
> **ptoche said:**
> In my experience the touchpad doesn't work properly.  The right-click button acts like the left-click button. I have the same problem with my HP-DV6. There is a kernel patch you can find that's supposed to fix it, but I haven't tried yet. Anyone here familiar with these patches and can vouch for one (there are so many versions of them, scary)?I tried a "clickpad" synaptics driver patch that fixed right click problems on a bunch of HP laptops, but it didn't work for me.  I think the reason is that the U300s touchpad is being detected as a two button touchpad, where the HP touchapds get detected as one button.  I've just changed my touchpad habits to use taps instead of clicks to work around the limitations:
1 finger tap (or one finger click) = left click
2 finger tap (or tapping in the lower right corner) = right click
3 finger tap = middle click

The biggest headache with this setup for me is trying to drag and drop.  On my previous laptops with dedicated touchpad buttons, I would hold down left click with one finger, and use another to slide around the touchpad.  Doing it that way meant I could lift and re-adjust my sliding finger as much as I wanted without leaving the "drag and drop" state.  There's no way to do that with the U300s touchpad.  If I hold down the left click button, then touch anywhere else on the pad, the cursor jumps and then registers a right click


> *stuff about partitions*I let the Ubuntu install blow away the extra partitions as well, including the Windows install.  My only concern is that they won't take the laptop back if I need a replacement. (Which I might, I'm having issues with the display going black and showing weird color bands.  Only way to recover is a hard reboot.  It was happening with Windows installed as well, so I suspect its a hardware issue).

> I have used the "sleep" feature without any problem. I don't see any "hibernate" option. My machine boots in like 10 seconds, so I don't plan to hibernate anyhow.Hmm...very weird.  I do see a hibernate option, and sleep doesn't work for me.  I may try a clean reinstall tonight, and test sleeping before I install any software or make any config changes.


> Hey guys, I have 6 or 7 hours battery life here, on both Windows and Kubuntu (K-ubuntu, could that make a difference?)This is also weird.  When I pull the plug the most it estimates I'll get is 3 hours and 40 minutes, but that's with Ubuntu...I don't see how using KDE instead of Unity could affect battery life that much, though.  I wonder if there are hardware differences between some of the machines?  Have you installed any software aimed at improving battery life?

edit:
One other note, I was initially having an issue where connecting to my wireless router would make my wireless network go down, and the only way to make it accept connections again was to reboot.  I actually had this same problem with my old laptop when I upgraded to Oneiric, so I already knew the fix:
add ```
options iwlagn lln_disable=1
``` to /etc/modprobe.d/iwlagn.conf, and then reloading the iwlagn module.

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-09
```
I tried a  "clickpad" synaptics driver patch that fixed right click problems on a  bunch of HP laptops, but it didn't work for me.  I think the reason is  that the U300s touchpad is being detected as a two button touchpad,  where the HP touchapds get detected as one button.  I've just changed my  touchpad habits to use taps instead of clicks to work around the  limitations:
1 finger tap (or one finger click) = left click
2 finger tap (or tapping in the lower right corner) = right click
3 finger tap = middle click
```Great tip, thanks, I'm about to start experimenting on these things.


```
 The biggest headache with this setup for me is trying to drag and drop.   On my previous laptops with dedicated touchpad buttons, I would hold  down left click with one finger, and use another to slide around the  touchpad.  Doing it that way meant I could lift and re-adjust my sliding  finger as much as I wanted without leaving the "drag and drop" state.   There's no way to do that with the U300s touchpad.  If I hold down the  left click button, then touch anywhere else on the pad, the cursor jumps  and then registers a right click

```Same here, a little annoying really...

```
I let the Ubuntu install blow away the extra partitions as well,  including the Windows install.  My only concern is that they won't take  the laptop back if I need a replacement. (Which I might, I'm having  issues with the display going black and showing weird color bands.  Only  way to recover is a hard reboot.  It was happening with Windows  installed as well, so I suspect its a hardware issue).

```I haven't experienced anything like this here. I made the 3 recovery DVDs, which if I understand correctly contain all the partitions. Did you make those? I could make a torrent.

```
Hmm...very weird.  I do see a hibernate option, and sleep doesn't  work for me.  I may try a clean reinstall tonight, and test sleeping  before I install any software or make any config changes.

```yes weird, I don't know the differences between ubuntu and kubuntu, I trawl the ubuntu forum because it seems to be more active. I haven't tested the sleep function much, but it has worked so far, I assigned "sleep" to the main power button and to "closing the lid."

by the way, the power button is where I have a tendency to place my thumb when I hold the laptop, so accidentally "shutting down" would be very annoying.

Edit: Kubuntu has a button named "Sleep" and subtitled  "suspend to RAM." No hibernation option, I can confirm that 100%.


```
This is also weird.  When I pull the plug the most it estimates  I'll get is 3 hours and 40 minutes, but that's with Ubuntu...I don't see  how using KDE instead of Unity could affect battery life that much,  though.  I wonder if there are hardware differences between some of the  machines?  Have you installed any software aimed at improving battery  life?

```I haven't done anything. On Windows there is a Lenovo "power management" program that loads on startup and which I have kept. I have the default options. On kubuntu, I have also not moved away from the default settings. I have installed no software. I have not noticed any difference in power management between windows and kubuntu, both are in the 6 hour range or above, depending on how much I do. I don't think that my kubuntu battery meter shows anything like the true values, I don't pay attention to it, I just look at my watch. Edit: The meter is showing a couple of minutes short of 5 hours for 100% battery. I don't game or anything like that you know. I don't keep a lot of windows and tabs open (an old habit from the early versions of Windows when it would crash if you had 2 programs running at once). I think my usage is pretty conservative. At home I have a cooling pad, that perhaps helps save energy too.


```
 One other note, I was initially having an issue where connecting to my  wireless router would make my wireless network go down, and the only way  to make it accept connections again was to reboot.  I actually had this  same problem with my old laptop when I upgraded to Oneiric, so I  already knew the fix:
add      Code:
     options iwlagn lln_disable=1 
 to /etc/modprobe.d/iwlagn.conf, and then reloading the iwlagn module.
```Interesting. I haven't had problems so far. The only thing that's a bit unexpected is that with kubuntu I need to be quite close to the router upon login, otherwise it can't seem to "read" the password, once logged in I can move to the bedroom!

There must be hardware differences. If there's some info you'd like me to post, just ask.

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-09
```
sudo lshw -html > hardware.html
```

yields:

```


 id:patrick-u300s
 
    description: Notebook
    product: 20111 (0)
    vendor: LENOVO
    version: Lenovo IdeaPad U300s
    serial: 112014900003
    width: 64 bits
    capabilities: smbios-2.7 dmi-2.7 vsyscall64 vsyscall32 
    configuration: boot=normal chassis=notebook family=IDEAPAD sku=0 uuid=10414128-B3FA-E081-2CA1-AC7289A1A81A
 

        
    
 id:core

 
       description: Motherboard
       product: U300s
       vendor: LENOVO
       physical id: 0
       version: 1.0
       serial: AB10300175
       slot: MIDDLE
     

              
       
 id:firmware
 
          description: BIOS
          vendor: LENOVO
          physical id: 0
          version: 56CN36WW
          date: 10/03/2011
          size: 64KiB
          capacity: 1984KiB
          capabilities: pci upgrade shadowing cdboot bootselect edd int13floppy1200 int13floppy720 int13floppy2880 int5printscreen int9keyboard int14serial int17printer acpi usb biosbootspecification 
        
       

              
       
 id:cpu
 
          description: CPU
          product: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-2677M CPU @ 1.80GHz
          vendor: Intel Corp.
          physical id: 4
          bus info: cpu@0
          version: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-2677M CPU @ 1.80GHz
          serial: To Be Filled By O.E.M.
          slot: CPU 1
          size: 1800MHz
          capacity: 4GHz
          width: 64 bits
          clock: 100MHz
          capabilities: x86-64 fpu fpu_exception wp vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe syscall nx rdtscp constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts rep_good nopl xtopology nonstop_tsc aperfmperf pni pclmulqdq dtes64 monitor ds_cpl vmx smx est tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm sse4_1 sse4_2 x2apic popcnt aes xsave avx lahf_lm ida arat epb xsaveopt pln pts tpr_shadow vnmi flexpriority ept vpid cpufreq 
          configuration: cores=2 enabledcores=1 threads=2
        

                    
          
 id:cache:0
 
             description: L1 cache
             physical id: 5
             slot: L1-Cache
             size: 32KiB
             capacity: 32KiB
             capabilities: internal write-back unified 
           
          

                    
          
 id:cache:1
 
             description: L2 cache
             physical id: 6
             slot: L2-Cache
             size: 256KiB
             capacity: 256KiB
             capabilities: internal varies unified 
           
          

                    
          
 id:cache:2
 
             description: L3 cache
             physical id: 7
             slot: L3-Cache
             size: 4MiB
             capacity: 4MiB
             capabilities: internal varies unified 
           
          
       

              
       
 id:memory
 
          description: System Memory
          physical id: 21
          slot: System board or motherboard
          size: 4GiB
        

                    
          
 id:bank
 
             description: SODIMM DDR3 Synchronous 1333 MHz (0.8 ns)
             product: M471B5273DH0-CH9
             vendor: Samsung
             physical id: 0
             serial: 6269FE37
             slot: ChannelB-DIMM0
             size: 4GiB
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 1333MHz (0.8ns)
           
          
       

              
       
 id:pci
 
          description: Host bridge
          product: 2nd Generation Core Processor Family DRAM Controller
          vendor: Intel Corporation
          physical id: 100
          bus info: pci@0000:00:00.0
          version: 09
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
          configuration: driver=agpgart-intel
          resources: irq:0
        

                    
          
 id:display
 
             description: VGA compatible controller
             product: 2nd Generation Core Processor Family Integrated Graphics Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
             version: 09
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom 
             configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
             resources: irq:48 memory:f7800000-f7bfffff memory:e0000000-efffffff ioport:f000(size=64)
           
          

                    
          
 id:communication
 
             description: Communication controller
             product: 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family MEI Controller #1
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 16
             bus info: pci@0000:00:16.0
             version: 04
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list 
             configuration: driver=mei latency=0
             resources: irq:16 memory:f7e0a000-f7e0a00f
           
          

                    
          
 id:usb:0
 
             description: USB Controller
             product: 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #2
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1a
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1a.0
             version: 05
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm debug ehci bus_master cap_list 
             configuration: driver=ehci_hcd latency=0
             resources: irq:16 memory:f7e08000-f7e083ff
           
          

                    
          
 id:multimedia
 
             description: Audio device
             product: 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family High Definition Audio Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1b
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0
             version: 05
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list 
             configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0
             resources: irq:50 memory:f7e00000-f7e03fff
           
          

                    
          
 id:pci:0
 
             description: PCI bridge
             product: 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 1
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1c
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1c.0
             version: b5
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pci pciexpress msi pm normal_decode bus_master cap_list 
             configuration: driver=pcieport
             resources: irq:16
           
          

                    
          
 id:pci:1
 
             description: PCI bridge
             product: 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 2
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1c.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1c.1
             version: b5
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pci pciexpress msi pm normal_decode bus_master cap_list 
             configuration: driver=pcieport
             resources: irq:17 memory:f7d00000-f7dfffff
           

                          
             
 id:network
 
                description: Wireless interface
                product: Centrino Wireless-N 1030
                vendor: Intel Corporation
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
                logical name: wlan0
                version: 34
                serial: ac:72:89:a1:a8:1a
                width: 64 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless 
                configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwlagn driverversion=3.0.0-13-generic firmware=17.168.5.1 build 33993 ip=119.237.229.28 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
                resources: irq:49 memory:f7d00000-f7d01fff
              
             
          

                    
          
 id:pci:2
 
             description: PCI bridge
             product: 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 4
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1c.3
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1c.3
             version: b5
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pci pciexpress msi pm normal_decode bus_master cap_list 
             configuration: driver=pcieport
             resources: irq:19 memory:f7c00000-f7cfffff
           

                          
             
 id:usb
 
                description: USB Controller
                product: uPD720200 USB 3.0 Host Controller
                vendor: NEC Corporation
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
                version: 04
                width: 64 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pm msi msix pciexpress xhci bus_master cap_list 
                configuration: driver=xhci_hcd latency=0
                resources: irq:19 memory:f7c00000-f7c01fff
              
             
          

                    
          
 id:usb:1
 
             description: USB Controller
             product: 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #1
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1d
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1d.0
             version: 05
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm debug ehci bus_master cap_list 
             configuration: driver=ehci_hcd latency=0
             resources: irq:23 memory:f7e07000-f7e073ff
           
          

                    
          
 id:isa
 
             description: ISA bridge
             product: QS67 Express Chipset Family LPC Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1f
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1f.0
             version: 05
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: isa bus_master cap_list 
             configuration: latency=0
           
          

                    
          
 id:storage
 
             description: SATA controller
             product: 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family 6 port SATA AHCI Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1f.2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1f.2
             logical name: scsi0
             version: 05
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 66MHz
             capabilities: storage msi pm ahci_1.0 bus_master cap_list emulated 
             configuration: driver=ahci latency=0
             resources: irq:42 ioport:f0b0(size=8) ioport:f0a0(size=4) ioport:f090(size=8) ioport:f080(size=4) ioport:f060(size=32) memory:f7e06000-f7e067ff
           

                          
             
 id:disk
 
                description: ATA Disk
                product: JMicron 616 SSD
                physical id: 0.0.0
                bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0
                logical name: /dev/sda
                version: 1105
                serial: WWWWWWW-WWWW-7777825
                size: 238GiB (256GB)
                capabilities: partitioned partitioned:dos 
                configuration: ansiversion=5 signature=b30b47af
              

                                
                
 id:volume:0
 
                   description: Windows NTFS volume
                   physical id: 1
                   bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0,1
                   logical name: /dev/sda1
                   version: 3.1
                   serial: d69e-7ffd
                   size: 198MiB
                   capacity: 200MiB
                   capabilities: primary ntfs initialized 
                   configuration: clustersize=4096 created=2011-10-20 15:55:22 filesystem=ntfs state=clean
                 
                

                                
                
 id:volume:1
 
                   description: Windows NTFS volume
                   physical id: 2
                   bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0,2
                   logical name: /dev/sda2
                   version: 3.1
                   serial: 06781ee6-5fab-294c-bb39-85a0baa9b3e0
                   size: 63GiB
                   capacity: 63GiB
                   capabilities: primary ntfs initialized 
                   configuration: clustersize=4096 created=2011-10-20 15:55:24 filesystem=ntfs label=Win7 state=clean
                 
                

                                
                
 id:volume:2
 
                   description: Windows NTFS volume
                   physical id: 3
                   bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0,3
                   logical name: /dev/sda3
                   version: 3.1
                   serial: 56fa3086-d9c3-f342-bcc1-4b6d52920c57
                   size: 97GiB
                   capacity: 97GiB
                   capabilities: primary ntfs initialized 
                   configuration: clustersize=4096 created=2011-12-06 06:33:24 filesystem=ntfs label=Data state=clean
                 
                

                                
                
 id:volume:3
 
                   description: EXT4 volume
                   vendor: Linux
                   physical id: 4
                   bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0,4
                   logical name: /dev/sda4
                   logical name: /
                   version: 1.0
                   serial: 3cf27a1d-240e-461e-9283-7f1d8230ae92
                   size: 76GiB
                   capacity: 76GiB
                   capabilities: primary bootable journaled extended_attributes large_files huge_files dir_nlink recover extents ext4 ext2 initialized 
                   configuration: created=2011-12-06 15:06:42 filesystem=ext4 lastmountpoint=/ modified=2011-12-06 08:17:56 mount.fstype=ext4 mount.options=rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro,user_xattr,acl,commit=600,barrier=1,data=ordered mounted=2011-12-09 17:13:08 state=mounted
                 
                
             
          

                    
          
 id:serial
 
             description: SMBus
             product: 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family SMBus Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1f.3
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1f.3
             version: 05
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             configuration: latency=0
             resources: memory:f7e05000-f7e050ff ioport:f040(size=32)
           

```

Edit: placed the output within a CODE environment to save space.

---

### Post by imdano on 2011-12-09
Sadly I had to send mine back to Lenovo for repairs (blowing away the Windows/Recovery partitions wasn't a problem).  The issue with the screen randomly going black was driving me nuts.  Supposedly I'll have it back in 1.5-2 weeks.  I'll post my lshw output for comparison as soon as I get it.

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-09
cheer up, when you get back all the touchpad and other hardware issues will have been solved!

:popcorn:

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-10
Hey guys, this fixed the right-click on my lenovo u300s.

However, I still haven't worked out how to drag and drop, any hints appreciated.

Below instructions lifted from another thread referenced below.

1. Download psmouse-3.0.0-12-generic.tar.bz2  (see link below)
2. sudo apt-get install dkms build-essential
3. cd /home/downloads
4. tar jxvf psmouse-3.0.0-12-generic.tar.bz2
5. sudo mv psmouse-3.0.0-12-generic /usr/src
6. cd /usr/src
7. sudo chmod -R a+rx psmouse-3.0.0-12-generic
8. sudo dkms add -m psmouse -v 3.0.0-12-generic
9. sudo dkms build -m psmouse -v 3.0.0-12-generic
10. sudo dkms install -m psmouse -v 3.0.0-12-generic
11. sudo shutdown -r now
12. dkms status


[http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=204657&d=1318883346](http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=204657&d=1318883346)


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1388164&page=27](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1388164&page=27)

---

### Post by imdano on 2011-12-11
Awesome ptoche, I'll give it a shot once I get mine back.  Does edge-scrolling and/or multi-touch still work with that module?

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-12
imdano,

I haven't experimented all that much with the touchpad, as I'm going through a very busy period (end of semester), and since I can type (thanks to the awesome "disable touchpad while typing" option of synaptiks) and do pretty much everything at this time, I just accept the minor annoyances that go with what I haven't yet configured properly.

I have applied the patch to my two laptops, the Lenovo U300S (which I use at the cafe, it's super light and stays very cool, unexpectedly cool -- so far :D) and an HP-DV6 (which I use at home, on a cooling pad, it's very heavy and overheats madly :().

On my HP-DV6 the patch appears to have fixed everything I need, that is not much: left- and right-click, the ability to click with one finger and drag an object by swiping another finger, to resize a window or drag and drop a file, or to select a line from a text, for instance --- these basic actions work perfectly on the HP.

On my Lenovo U300S the patch has fixed left- and right-clicking, but at this time I haven't been able to drag and drop, resize windows or select words (except using the arrow keys, which is what I do at this time :)). But as I said, I haven't spent much time fiddling with the settings. At this time, I have applied the patch and selected basic options from synaptiks, which took no more than 10 minutes :).

I don't know about the complicated touchpad gestures you're describing. I'm probably too old.

There are a couple of things that need tweaking. I think I know how to proceed. At this time, right- or left-clicking with the clickpad ( i.e. the bottom part of the touchpad, which has some mechanical "click"-pad as opposed to just a "touch"-pad) is too quick, so that most of the time two clicks are registered rather than one, and typically the second click will cancel the effect of the first click! This feature does not seem to be accessible via synaptiks. However, it can be changed within xorg.conf.d (if you don't understand what I mean, just ask and I will post explanations, I'm no expert in general but the business of xorg.conf.d is something I've had to learn to make my HP-DV6 useable, so I should be able to help here). My guess is that MaxDoubleTapTime needs to be changed. I don't have time to experiment at this time, and I have a workaround: I am following your earlier suggestion and using "taps" to left- and right-click, it's just as good and doesn't have the double-tapping problem.

I hope you get machine back soon. Make sure you get at least 6 hours of battery life (test it on windows before you blow the partitions away). When I first bought my HP-DV6, battery life was about an hour. I couldn't believe it. When the hard drive failed after two months (yeah) I returned it and asked for a new battery, the new battery lasted 3 hours, which is what they advertised for that model anyway. So luck plays a big part when it comes to batteries --- complain about the battery and get a new one, it should last 6 hours (at least).

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-12
I think I know what you mean by edge-scrolling. Pretty cool. Yes, it works. I suddenly feel younger. Must not forget to use it (memory goes with age)!

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2011-12-13
> **imdano said:**
> Awesome ptoche, I'll give it a shot once I get mine back.  Does edge-scrolling and/or multi-touch still work with that module?
Clarifying a couple of points about the touchpad, on my U300s running 12.04 precise (the currently in-development version):

The touchpad can actually be pushed down to click (I'll call this a "click") or just tapped without pushing it down and getting the click sound (I'll call this a "tap"). I only use taps myself; I never click.

In the "Mouse and Touchpad" System Settings panel, I've ticked "Disable touchpad when typing" and "Enable mouse clicks with touchpad", and chosen "Two-finger scrolling" (rather than "Edge scrolling"). This means that I can do the following things:

[LIST=1]
[*]tap once, anywhere on the pad: left mouse button click
[*]tap with two fingers, once, anywhere on the pad: right mouse button click
[*]tap with three fingers, once, anywhere on the pad: middle mouse button click
[*]drag with one finger: move the mouse pointer
[*]drag with two fingers: scroll up and down (note: if you "Enable horizontal scrolling" in the Mouse and Touchpad System Settings panel, then you can also drag left and right with two fingers to scroll left and right, but I don't like horizontal scrolling)
[*]double-tap-and-hold (that is, tap once and then tap again but stay on the pad after the second tap): mouse left button click-and-drag (to move windows with the title bar, select text, and so on). Note that you have to do the double tap *very* quickly for this to work!
[/LIST]
The multitouch stuff in Ubuntu does not recognise three-finger drags or more than three fingers in any gesture; I don't know whether that's a driver issue or whether the touchpad hardware itself doesn't support that. (Three-finger and four-finger pinches and drags are used by Unity to move windows and show the launcher, if your hardware and drivers support them.)

Hope that helps with touchpad queries. (Note that, as above, I'm running 12.04, and you may not be.)

(I have the same suspend problem as noted above -- suspending just goes to a lit-up black screen and then the machine needs to be power-cycled to get it back.)

(I'm also having problems with the internal mic; it is very, very quiet and crackly.)

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2011-12-14
> **stuartlangridge said:**
> (I have the same suspend problem as noted above -- suspending just goes to a lit-up black screen and then the machine needs to be power-cycled to get it back.)

Reported as [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/904261](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/904261)

> **stuartlangridge said:**
>  (I'm also having problems with the internal mic; it is very, very quiet and crackly.)

Reported as [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/903853](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/903853)

Please affects-me the bugs if you're also having the same problems with a U300s so that we can get more information to the relevant developers!

---

### Post by imdano on 2011-12-14
> **stuartlangridge said:**
> Reported as [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/904261](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/904261)



Reported as [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/903853](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/903853)

Please affects-me the bugs if you're also having the same problems with a U300s so that we can get more information to the relevant developers!Done, at least for the suspend issue.  I didn't really get a chance to test the mic before I sent mine back for repairs.  I'll be sure to test that once I get it back.

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-15
@[[COLOR=#76482c]**stuartlangridge**[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=843096")

thanks a lot for this gentle introduction to the art of touchpad and laptop maintenance!

must admit I had no idea you could do all these things with just three fingers

I'm very much interested in getting the ability to select text to work (to select text on the web, the workaround is to use the arrow keys, but I couldn't get this to work in the bashrc)

I don't think I'll have time to experiment today, but will get back to you with a progress report once I work something out.

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2011-12-15
> **ptoche said:**
> @[[COLOR=#76482c]**stuartlangridge**[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=843096")

thanks a lot for this gentle introduction to the art of touchpad and laptop maintenance!

must admit I had no idea you could do all these things with just three fingers

I'm very much interested in getting the ability to select text to work (to select text on the web, the workaround is to use the arrow keys, but I couldn't get this to work in the bashrc)

I promise selecting text works :) It's a bit difficult to do, but you'll get the hang of it. Basically, do a double-tap as fast as you can, but at the end of the second tap, keep your finger on the touchpad. Then move your finger around, and it should be selecting text.

What I'm not sure about is the best way to make this easier. How do other platforms/laptops/etc do this? Does everyone double-tap-and-hold to select text? Is it always this awkward? (If we can work out what the best way to do it is, then we can hopefully configure the driver appropriately to *do* that, and then file a bug to have those settings accepted by default so everyone benefits.)

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-15
Did just as you said --- double tap instantly followed by gentle brushing movement sideways --- and it worked!

:popcorn::popcorn::popcorn::popcorn:

and yes tapping is a lot better behaved than clicking (but fiddling with xorg settings would surely improve that too). I'm good to start serious work and be awesomely productive!

thanks!

---

### Post by ptoche on 2011-12-30
There are two things that I don't like about the U300S. Fortunately, they can be changed easily.

The first thing, I don't like the navigation keys to be in this order, from top to bottom,

HOME --> END --> PgUP --> PgDN

I like them to be:

HOME --> PgUP --> PgDN --> END

that's just me. So I remapped the thing. I won't get into it here, but if you're interested I can post explanations.

The second thing I don't like is the position of the power button. It's right where I stick my thumb when I grab the laptop to move a few feet or to change seat.

To disable the power button (you can still switch off by clicking on the power icon),

go in the konsole and type:

```
sudo kate /etc/acpi/powerbtn.sh
```

comment off with a # the following line:

```
#/sbin/shutdown -h now "Power button pressed"
```

where kate is your preferred editor, e.g. gedit, medit, emacs, etc..

What if you accidentally pressed the power button while you were upgrading and updating software and what if your package manager muon/synaptic, etc. or your command-line sudo apt-get upgrade are broken? (I'm not saying it just happened to me  :)), well then you want to do this:
```

sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install -f
```

and then you can:

```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

or use the package manager of your choice.

---

### Post by avitrac on 2012-01-08
> **ptoche said:**
> For some  reason, ubuntu wouldn't create a swap partition, even though I hadn't  exhausted the admissible number of primary and extended partitions,  oh well whatever, I read somewhere that you can live without a swap partition with today's  i-7 machines, I hope it's true.

[...]

I have used the "sleep" feature without any problem. I don't see any "hibernate" option. My machine boots in like 10 seconds, so I don't plan to hibernate anyhow.



Hi,

Jumping in the conversation late in the game, but just to let you know the "issue" that your experiencing (lack of hibernation option) is actually a "feature" :p. Hibernation in Linux requires swap. If you didn't make a swap partition, then you cannot hibernate.

If you need hibernation, I'm not sure if you can use hibernation with a swap file instead of a swap partition. Never tried.

---

### Post by stfields on 2012-01-17
About the suspend issue -- I have no idea what I'm talking about, but I'll throw this out there.  The Asus zenbook hangs on resume from suspend, and that apparently has something to to with the USB ports (it's discussed in depth on this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865577]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865577")).  Might something similar be going on here?

Also, has anyone successfully connected an external monitor through HDMI?  I tried it with unfortunate results.

---

### Post by nauni1977 on 2012-01-26
Hello,
thanks first for the information at this thread. A Special thanks to ptoche for solution with right click and stuartlangridge for the links to the problems "Sleep" and "Mic".

**Answer to external Monitor via HDMI**
At the moment I use a external Monitor via HDMI. It works ... also the dual screen works.

A few days ago I bought a u300s and installed Ubuntu. I have at the moment the following problems:
**1.) Fan is always running**
Sensors tell me always a temperature approx. 49°C (kernel module "coretemp" and "max6650").

```

blabla$ sensors
acpitz-virtual-0
Adapter: Virtual device
temp1:        +49.0°C  (crit = +99.0°C)

coretemp-isa-0000
Adapter: ISA adapter
Physical id 0:  +49.0°C  (high = +86.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)
Core 0:         +47.0°C  (high = +86.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)
Core 1:         +48.0°C  (high = +86.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)

```First I thought to control the fan with acpi like the lenovo thinkpad line. But now I noticed that is not possible. I tried to get the info about the fan speed, but without success.

 - Do you have the same problem? Means fan is always running? Or is maybe my u300s demaged? Which temperature does sensors tell you?
 - Can you read the fan speed?
 - Can you control the fan speed?

**2.) Sleep function is not working**
This annoys me very much. So I tried to install ubuntu and kubuntu alone or with keeping the original partitions hda1 and hda2. At any case its not working for me. It doesn't matter if you have a SWAP or not, to install Ubuntu at a primary (/dev/hda3) or virtual (/dev/hda5, ...) device. I hope there is as soon as possible a solution.

[B]3.) Touchpad
[/B]The only thing what does not work for me is drag and drop (thanks again to ptoche :-)).

The reason why it does not work is: If you click the left its at the same time a tap. So the second finger is ignored. If you take a rubber (just f.e. - you can take anything what the touchpad not recognize as tap) to make a left click and hold it down, than you can use a finger to move to the position to drop. At this position release the click with the rubber and it makes drag and drop.

*IMHO the solution to the developer should be, that the tap should be ignored if this also leads to a left click. Just use the second tab (with the next finger) for moving the cursor. ... Usually the first finger tap is used to move the cursor and the second finger is ignored for moving.*

**4.) The Mic is not working**
That's not nice, the mic is not working with Ubuntu. But I don't need it very much ...

**5.) Battery life**
The battery shows approx 3.40 hours. It would be great if the u300s has capacity for over 6 hours, but I can life with that. I have the feeling, that the battery have longer power than Ubuntu shows directly after disconnecting from power line.

If someone can help me to solve this problems (especially 1, 2 and 3) it would be very cool! I will post my solutions also at this place, if I find one.

Best regards, nauni

P.S.: If someone in Germany is a Ubuntu developer and can help to solve the problem - I can come to him with my u300s for developing/ testing. Just if he has no device for develop the solution ... just write a private mail to me. From outside germany its maybe a possibility that I help with the possibilities of the web (testing solutions, ssh, vnc, ...). Just feel free to contact me.

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2012-01-27
> **nauni1977 said:**
> Hello,
thanks first for the information at this thread. A Special thanks to ptoche for solution with right click and stuartlangridge for the links to the problems "Sleep" and "Mic".
**4.) The Mic is not working**
That's not nice, the mic is not working with Ubuntu. But I don't need it very much ...


We now have a workaround for this, and the mic works perfectly in skype, mumble, and other VoIP apps. See [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/903853](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/903853) comment 8 for the details; the sound team are working on not having to do this, but following those steps fixes the problem until a fix is rolled into Ubuntu itself.

(Still no fix for suspend, yet.)

---

### Post by imdano on 2012-01-30
I see lots of good info has been added to this thread.  Believe it or not I still(!) haven't gotten my laptop back from Lenovo.  They've already replaced the motherboard and the SSD (though it took about a month for the parts to become available), but apparently it's still broken, and the part they're going to replace next isn't available yet, either.  So, nearly two months later and they still don't know what's wrong with it.

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2012-01-30
> **nauni1977 said:**
> 
**2.) Sleep function is not working**
This annoys me very much. So I tried to install ubuntu and kubuntu alone or with keeping the original partitions hda1 and hda2. At any case its not working for me. It doesn't matter if you have a SWAP or not, to install Ubuntu at a primary (/dev/hda3) or virtual (/dev/hda5, ...) device. I hope there is as soon as possible a solution.

I have people (the lovely cking) in the kernel team looking into this. Meanwhile, as noted, hibernate *does* work, although it's not available from the user interface: you can do "sudo pm-hibernate" in a terminal window, which is not ideal but at least it works for now.

---

### Post by stfields on 2012-01-31
> **nauni1977 said:**
> 

**5.) Battery life**
The battery shows approx 3.40 hours. It would be great if the u300s has capacity for over 6 hours, but I can life with that. I have the feeling, that the battery have longer power than Ubuntu shows directly after disconnecting from power line.


Regarding battery life, try using boot options
```
i915.i915_enable_rc6=1 i915.semaphores=1 pcie_aspm=force
```
With kernel 3.2-rc8, that lowered power consumption for me by about a third, according to powertop.  It's still humming along fine with 3.2-rc10, with no lockups or random shutdowns that some people were reporting on other hardware.

Unfortunately, as some of you have mentioned, the fan never seems to slow down.

As for hdmi out, video seems to be working, but I still can't get audio out.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by imdano on 2012-02-03
> **stuartlangridge said:**
> I have people (the lovely cking) in the kernel team looking into this. Meanwhile, as noted, hibernate *does* work, although it's not available from the user interface: you can do "sudo pm-hibernate" in a terminal window, which is not ideal but at least it works for now.I actually do see the hibernate option in the UI on 11.10.  And yes, it does work properly, too.

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2012-02-03
> **imdano said:**
> I actually do see the hibernate option in the UI on 11.10.  And yes, it does work properly, too.
Yeah, it's not there in precise :(

---

### Post by imdano on 2012-02-03
I found an Xorg setting that helped a lot with the drag/drop problem.  I added the following to /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/50-synaptics.conf:
```


        Option "LockedDrags" "true"
        Option "LockedDragTimeout" "500"

```The LockedDrags option allows you to lift your finger off the touchpad for the amount of time specified by LockedDragTimeout once the cursor has entered the "drag" state, without losing the "drag".  If you want to cancel the drag before the timeout expires, just tap once.  The 500 timeout works well for me, but you can play with it to get it at a length that works for you.

Note that this only works with the "double tap" drag method.  Still no solution for the drag style where you hold down the left mouse button and drag with the other finger.

---

### Post by GerhardK90 on 2012-02-04
Well someone figured out how you can fix the problem with the always spinning fan? This problem is probably also the reason for the short battery life.

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2012-02-04
> **GerhardK90 said:**
> Well someone figured out how you can fix the problem with the always spinning fan? This problem is probably also the reason for the short battery life.
Interesting; I don't have that problem at all. I don't think I've ever even heard the fan start up. Gerhard, which version of Ubuntu are you using?

---

### Post by imdano on 2012-02-04
> **stuartlangridge said:**
> Interesting; I don't have that problem at all. I don't think I've ever even heard the fan start up. Gerhard, which version of Ubuntu are you using?I'm with you on this.  Every now and then I hear it fire up, but it mostly runs quiet.

edit: Here's my sensors output (after running sensors-detect):

```
dan@dantop:~$ sudo sensors
acpitz-virtual-0
Adapter: Virtual device
temp1:        +40.0°C  (crit = +99.0°C)

coretemp-isa-0000
Adapter: ISA adapter
Physical id 0:  +42.0°C  (high = +86.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)
Core 0:         +42.0°C  (high = +86.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)
Core 1:         +40.0°C  (high = +86.0°C, crit = +100.0°C)

```

Also, this is with Jupiter applet running on power save mode, and with the kernel parameters suggested above by stfields.

---

### Post by imdano on 2012-02-06
> **stfields said:**
> As for hdmi out, video seems to be working, but I still can't get audio out.  Any ideas?
I got it working by going to Sound Settings -> Hardware, then choosing "Digital Stereo (HDMI) Output + Analog Stereo Input" as the profile.  That switched the output device from the internal speaker to the HDMI cable.  You have to switch it back once you unplug, though.  I found a script that speeds this up and adapted it to work for my system:
```
#!/bin/bash

hdmi_on=`xrandr | grep -c "HDMI1 connected"`
if [ $hdmi_on -eq 1 ]
then
    notify-send -u normal -t 500 -i gnome-sound-properties "HDMI On" "Sound to HDMI"
    pacmd "set-card-profile 0 output:hdmi-stereo+input:analog-stereo" > /dev/null
else
    notify-send -u normal -t 500 -i gnome-sound-properties "HDMI Off" "Sound to Internal"
    pacmd "set-card-profile 0 output:analog-stereo+input:analog-stereo" > /dev/null
fi

```I then created a keyboard shortcut to execute that script.  Ideally it would run automatically when the HDMI cable was plugged/unplugged, but I'm not sure how I can monitor for that.

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2012-02-06
> **imdano said:**
> I got it working by going to Sound Settings -> Hardware, then choosing "Digital Stereo (HDMI) Output + Analog Stereo Input" as the profile.  That switched the output device from the internal speaker to the HDMI cable.  You have to switch it back once you unplug, though. 
There has been work on "jack detection" in Ubuntu recently, which is designed to do this switch-over automatically. It would be worth filing a bug saying that this switch does not happen automatically, and also talking to diwic on IRC about what should happen in this situation.

On a different subject, does anyone know where I can buy an adaptor to plug my U300s into a VGA monitor/projector so I can do presentations? Lenovo haven't released the official one yet.

---

### Post by stfields on 2012-02-07
> **stuartlangridge said:**
> On a different subject, does anyone know where I can buy an adaptor to plug my U300s into a VGA monitor/projector so I can do presentations? Lenovo haven't released the official one yet.

I had a lot of trouble finding such a converter.  I ended up buying this one [http://www.amazon.com/Asus-TF101-EP121-Adapter-Tablet/dp/B005ORQ1QQ/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1328645396&sr=8-1]("http://www.amazon.com/Asus-TF101-EP121-Adapter-Tablet/dp/B005ORQ1QQ/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1328645396&sr=8-1"), which annoyingly requires a (cheap) hdmi -> mini HDMI adapter.

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2012-02-07
> **stfields said:**
> I had a lot of trouble finding such a converter.  I ended up buying this one [http://www.amazon.com/Asus-TF101-EP121-Adapter-Tablet/dp/B005ORQ1QQ/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1328645396&sr=8-1](http://www.amazon.com/Asus-TF101-EP121-Adapter-Tablet/dp/B005ORQ1QQ/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1328645396&sr=8-1), which annoyingly requires a (cheap) hdmi -> mini HDMI adapter.

HP sell an HDMI-to-VGA adaptor, code NP031AA, which I am assured will work. I've just ordered it from Amazon UK, and I'll report back on whether it works fine with the U300s. It was about £45 (GBP).

Note: there are cheap HDMI-to-VGA adaptors available which require that the laptop provides an analogue VGA signal through its HDMI port. The U300s doesn't do this. If you see what looks like an HDMI-to-VGA adaptor and it's very cheap, beware that it might be one of these.

Note also: it's pretty easy to find VGA-to-HDMI adaptors -- that is, things that let you connect the VGA output on your laptop to an HDMI input on a monitor/television. This is not what you want for the U300s :)

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2012-02-09
> **stuartlangridge said:**
> HP sell an HDMI-to-VGA adaptor, code NP031AA, which I am assured will work. I've just ordered it from Amazon UK, and I'll report back on whether it works fine with the U300s. It was about £45 (GBP).

Note: there are cheap HDMI-to-VGA adaptors available which require that the laptop provides an analogue VGA signal through its HDMI port. The U300s doesn't do this. If you see what looks like an HDMI-to-VGA adaptor and it's very cheap, beware that it might be one of these.

Note also: it's pretty easy to find VGA-to-HDMI adaptors -- that is, things that let you connect the VGA output on your laptop to an HDMI input on a monitor/television. This is not what you want for the U300s :)

To follow up: this adaptor, the HP NP031AA, works perfectly with the U300s and Ubuntu 12.04. I didn't have to touch a thing; just plugged the adaptor into the VGA cable from my monitor and into the HDMI port on my U300s and the monitor came up as the second screen. No configuration required. Yay!

---

### Post by nauni1977 on 2012-02-10
Hello,
for some reason I didn't get a notification mail for this thread. Thats the reason why I answer so late.

**1.) Spinning fan**
Thanks @GerhardK90 and @StuartLangridge. With Windows 7 the fan was from the beginning (also without installing ubuntu) always spinning. And if @stuartlangridge it's not always spinning (nearly never making noise) I'm very sure there must something wrong with the fan or temperature management. Thats the reason why I sent the laptop to lenovo to repair this things. This spinning fan made me mad. :-(

**2.) Touchpad**
@imano thanks for your information. At the moment I have no laptop with multi touch and linux. But I think this is the same behavior like Mac OS X do??? First I did't like it at the MacBook (Laptop from my wife), but because of the lack of 'left click drag and drop' I'm sure it's a great thing! I will try it at once if the Laptop is back. :-)

**3.) Battery life**
Thanks for information @stfields ... I will try that as soon as the laptop comes back. It's a quite long time ago that I compiled a own kernel ... but now I think I should do. ;-) I hope its still working with ```
make cloneconfig
```. Did you switch some special features/ modules on or off?

**4.) Mic is still not working** :-(
@stuartlangridge: I tried the "solution", but for me its not working. :-( As soon as I tried to talk via Skype the Mic-Volume goes very fast down to nearly zero.

**5.) Sleep function vs. hibernate**
Yes - the hibernate option is at 11.10 displayed. But for me it's much worse than "sleep", because it takes quite long to hibernate and it takes longer to come back from hibernate than starting regular. But one thing is also very nice with hibernate ... the programs are still started and the files are opened ... :-) ... but I hope there will be a solution to that "sleep problem" ...

**6.) VGA-Adapter**
@stuartlangridge: Thanks for information about the working VGA adapter. Sometimes I need that to connect with a older Beamer without digital input ... so I will buy also. :-)

Have a good day and best regards from germany

nauni

---

### Post by sirajrazick on 2012-02-12
@nauni1977, I got the mic to work by running alsamixer -> press f4 for capture settings, then change the
gain to 40db, the default is 0, once you change  this you will see the mic starts to work.

@everyone else

I see some of your systems have detected your touchpad as a touchpad.. but in my case it's detected as a mouse.
so My GUI options for palm detection (disable touchpad while typing) do not show up for me, How did you guys  
get it to detect your touchpad as a mouse. and it would be nice if you can share your input related config's so I can compare with my system

---

### Post by sirajrazick on 2012-02-12
> **ptoche said:**
> 
In my experience the touchpad doesn't work properly.  The right-click button acts like the left-click button. I have the same problem with my HP-DV6. There is a kernel patch you can find that's supposed to fix it, but I haven't tried yet. Anyone here familiar with these patches and can vouch for one (there are so many versions of them, scary)?

The good news is that I was able to get synaptiks to take control of the touchpad and have configured the "suspend touchpad while typing" 



<< 

How did you get this option to show up in synaptiks ? when I run, it says "no touchpad detected".
Can you please share your input details ? like /var/log/Xorg.0.log and cat /proc/bus/input/devices ..etc ?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by stuartlangridge on 2012-02-13
> **sirajrazick said:**
> @nauni1977, I got the mic to work by running alsamixer -> press f4 for capture settings, then change the
gain to 40db, the default is 0, once you change  this you will see the mic starts to work.


OK. The problem with the mic is that there are two channels (left and right) and they're exactly opposite one another, so they (almost totally) cancel one another out. Turning up the gain will take the almost-cancelled-out low-volume sound and artificially boost it, which will sort of work but the quality isn't great. For now, the best workaround is to turn *one* of the mic channels down to zero volume while leaving the other one alone, as described in [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/903853/comments/8](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/903853/comments/8) - the Ubuntu audio team have an idea how to fix this in the kernel so that it doesn't actually happen, but it's apparently a lot of work, so this workaround comes recommended by them until then.

---

### Post by sirajrazick on 2012-02-14
I filed a bug report for the touchpad problem.. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/932399](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/932399) I really can't find anything on google on how to fix this issue :(

---

### Post by imdano on 2012-02-21
Someone posted a fix for the suspend problem in the launchpad bug comments.  Here's the link to the fix: [http://thecodecentral.com/2011/01/18/fix-ubuntu-10-10-suspendhibernate-not-working-bug](http://thecodecentral.com/2011/01/18/fix-ubuntu-10-10-suspendhibernate-not-working-bug)

Note that this only worked for me when I wasn't connected to an external display.  If I was connected to an external monitor via the HDMI port, resuming would hang.

edit: After a little more testing I realized that resume actually was working, but the neither the laptop display nor the HDMI display were being enabled properly.  I added a script to /etc/pm.d/ to work around this.

Here's the script (/etc/pm.d/99_enable_hdmi)
```
#!/bin/sh

# Call a script to enable the HDMI display if it's connected.

case "$1" in
	resume)
        /home/dan/scripts/enable_hdmi_disable_lvds.sh
		;;
esac

```

The enable_hdmi_disable_lvds.sh script looks like this:
```
#!/bin/bash

hdmi_on=`xrandr | grep -c "HDMI1 connected"`
if [ $hdmi_on -eq 1 ]
then
    xrandr --output LVDS1 --off  # Disable the laptop display
    xrandr --output HDMI1 --auto # enable the HDMI display.
fi

exit 0

```
Note that I just hacked this together, there's probably a much nicer way of doing this...

---

### Post by DrZaeus on 2012-02-24
Just wanted to give a heads up.  My U300s just came in the mail and I tried a couple different distros on it (Ubuntu 11.10, Kubuntu 11.10, Fedora 16, and Ubuntu 12.04), I had the best luck with Ubuntu 12.04.  After a full drain of the battery watching videos and running a simple python script to max the CPU (~3 hours battery life) I booted up after a fresh charge and have an estimated 6-8 hours on the battery.

I downloaded the synaptiks package from the Ubuntu Software Center (not sure of the package name for apt-get) and the touchpad is working flawlessly.

Seems like Ubuntu 12.04's the way to go.

Best wishes fellow U300s owners.
-DrZ

---

### Post by psyhozz on 2012-03-03
Hey. I had a few problems with ubuntu 11.10, but I have fix it.
1) mic
enough to disable noise reduction with
```
 pavucontrol
```
2) fix for key
del
```
xmodmap -e 'keycode 75 = Delete'
```
touchpad
```
 
#!/bin/bash
#touchpad off

check_id=`xinput list | grep  "SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad" | awk  '{print $6}' |  awk -F"=" '{print $2}'`
on_or_off=`xinput --list-props ${check_id} | grep "Device Enabled" | awk '{print $4}'`

if [ "$on_or_off" = "1" ]; then

xinput set-prop $check_id "Device Enabled" 0 ; 
notify-send  --expire-time=1 "Touchpad disable"

else 

xinput set-prop $check_id "Device Enabled" 1 ;
notify-send  --expire-time=1 "Touchpad enable"

fi

```
screen off
```
xset dpms force off
```

3) battery life (work 4-5 hours)
i use grub customizer. Set kernel param
```
quiet splash  i915.i915_enable_rc6=1 i915.semaphores=1 pcie_aspm=force acpi_enforce_resources=lax

```

---

### Post by imdano on 2012-03-03
Saw something interesting in the Precise Pangolin Beta 1 release notes:
> ClickPad support

ClickPad devices are trackpads where the physical button is integrated into the trackpad surface. Ubuntu Precise now has enhanced support for these devices. **When the button is pressed on a ClickPad device, a second finger may be used to drag the cursor.**

ClickPad support requires extra handling that conflicts with "Click Action" support. Click Actions allow for separate actions when multiple fingers are active on a trackpad. The default Ubuntu settings enable right button behavior when two fingers are in contact with the trackpad surface and the physical trackpad button is pressed. Because of conflicting behavior, ClickPad devices do not support Click Actions in this release.
Most Synaptics brand ClickPads are recognized out of the box. Apple MacBook trackpads are recognized as well. Support for Apple Magic Trackpads and more Synaptics brand ClickPads will follow in the next release.Has anyone tried this out yet?  If so, how does the touchpad behave?

---

### Post by stfields on 2012-03-06
> **imdano said:**
> Saw something interesting in the Precise Pangolin Beta 1 release notes:
Has anyone tried this out yet?  If so, how does the touchpad behave?

Yeah, this is great.  I didn't even notice the change, but now that you point it out, I really like it.  It behaves like I would intuitively expect it to -- click the pad with one finger, drag with another, and I can highlight text or move around windows.  Cool!

On the downside, three finger tap seems to have disappeared.  Annoying...

---

### Post by imdano on 2012-03-11
> **stfields said:**
> On the downside, three finger tap seems to have disappeared.  Annoying...You can bring it back, though!  Just run this:
```
synclient TapButton3=2
```And it will work again.  If you want to make the change permanent, make your /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/50_synaptics.conf file look like this:
```
# Example xorg.conf.d snippet that assigns the touchpad driver
# to all touchpads. See xorg.conf.d(5) for more information on
# InputClass.
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE, your distribution will likely overwrite
# it when updating. Copy (and rename) this file into
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d first.
# Additional options may be added in the form of
#   Option "OptionName" "value"
#
Section "InputClass"
        Identifier "touchpad catchall"
        Driver "synaptics"
        MatchIsTouchpad "on"
        Option "ClickPad" "1"
        Option "TapButton3" "2"
# This option is recommend on all Linux systems using evdev, but cannot be
# enabled by default. See the following link for details:
# http://who-t.blogspot.com/2010/11/how-to-ignore-configuration-errors.html
      MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"
EndSection

Section "InputClass"
        Identifier "touchpad ignore duplicates"
        MatchIsTouchpad "on"
        MatchOS "Linux"
        MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/mouse*"
        Option "Ignore" "on"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by nauni1977 on 2012-04-16
**Fan again :-(**

Some people wrote, that they never noticed the fan. Other had the same experience like me and are annoyed by the constantly spinning fan. Is it possible that this is caused by the model? _*I mean i5 vs. i7 model ...*_

_*Can you please send me your experience?*_ Please just reply or send me a private message - I will accumulate and pot it in two weeks here ... because if this is not the reason I will send the laptop again to Lenovo support and hope this time the problem will be solved ... :-(

Thanks in advance! For now my experience ... I have a i7-Version and the fan makes me mad! Temprature is most times around 42°C.

Greetings, nauni

---

### Post by imdano on 2012-04-28
I've got the clementine orange i7 model and haven't had any issues with the fan.  I did have the SSD die on me about a week ago, though.  Had to have it replaced...

---

### Post by deckoff on 2012-05-05
> **sirajrazick said:**
> @nauni1977, 
@everyone else

I see some of your systems have detected your touchpad as a touchpad.. but in my case it's detected as a mouse.
so My GUI options for palm detection (disable touchpad while typing) do not show up for me, How did you guys  
get it to detect your touchpad as a mouse. and it would be nice if you can share your input related config's so I can compare with my system

Same issue here touchpad is recognized as a mouse. F6 will not disable it at all, by the way (it is mouse, to the system :)
My up arrow key results in ~ , had to re-assign it. Works this way in grub, too. Probably kernel issue???

Thanks for all the tips for fixing the other problems, will be happy if someone finds a fix for the touchpad issue

---

### Post by deckoff on 2012-05-06
It seems to me that my arrow up problem is a hardware problem - I have this problem in BIOS too!!!! This simply cannot be a BIOS issue.... 
I cannot assign a keyboard combo to change layout keyboard or kill X server - combo is not working and gets lost after a reboot...
EDIT: I WILL BE HAPPY IF SOMEONE PROVIDES the DVD backups as a torrent file, I think I will be taking the machine to the store for replacement/repair, so the fewer cases for not accepting my warranty, the better :)

---

### Post by sander.lindeman on 2012-06-24
I'm also facing the weird keyboard problem. It started with the 't' that was changed to the F9 key. A simple xmodmap fixed that issue (only in X though). What is really strange is that indeed the BIOS and my dualboot Windows 7 also show this behavior.

This morning things really got messed up: suddenly the arrow-up key was changed into the F9 key too (it results in the letter T because of the xmodmap) and a few minutes later also the delete-key has been changed to the same F9 key! 

The big problem here is that all four keys (F9, t, arrow-up, delete) have the same keycodes so I'm unable to remap them all to their original behavior:

```
KeyPress event, serial 35, synthetic NO, window 0x6600001,
    root 0xaf, subw 0x0, time 2395970, (-643,212), root:(137,258),
    state 0x0, keycode 75 (keysym 0x74, t), same_screen YES,
    XKeysymToKeycode returns keycode: 28
    XLookupString gives 1 bytes: (74) "t"
    XmbLookupString gives 1 bytes: (74) "t"
    XFilterEvent returns: False
```Note that keycode 75 stands for F9. Also using showkey and showkey -s all four keys are the same. There's nothing weird in /usr/share/acpi-support/key-constants, and xmodmap -pke looks normal.

Any ideas how to fix this, or is this a hardware issue? Maybe I'll restore the laptop to it's original Windows 7 to see what happens.

btw, quite a few people faced this issue: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/974455](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/974455)

edit: also the F5 key joined the other remapped keys, so now I have 5 keys that act as the F9 key... Factory default rescue in progress...

---

