---
title: "12.04 w/ canon IP1700 printer HELP"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by GeorgeBerz on 2012-05-13
I have a friend in her 60's who keeps messing up windows installing crap... so last week I decided to install 12.04 lts desktop on her machine and wipe windows... On older eMachine.. previously ran XP

PROBLEM her printer is not working now, a canon IP1700 USB.

Can someone give some step by step instructions on how to make this work? perhaps a different driver that can be manually loaded?

Pulling hair out...

Thanks

George

---

### Post by deltaRedge on 2012-09-26
Hi George, I know it's kinda late, but I hope this will help you.

First, you'll need to add repository for Canon Printer

```

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:michael-gruz/canon-trunk

```then update your package

```

sudo apt-get update

```after that, you can install the package by typing
```

sudo apt-get install cnijfilter-ip1800series

```then you're good to go. At this point you can configure your printer. I suggest using Cups. First, access Cups via Web Browser (e.g Firefox)
```
http://localhost:631
```select **Administration** then **Add Printer**. You should see your printer (connect first) with the USB label. 
Pick your printer (IP1700) then **Continue**. Fill necessary Names, then continue. 

When you're about to pick the Printer model, choose provide PPD files. look in
 ```
/usr/share/ppd/
```and you'll see canonip1800.ppd. Continue, then check whether your printer working or not by printing test page.


Note, that this maybe only works in 12.04 Precise. Because of different repository for Precise.

Please refer to the following links for further info.
[https://launchpad.net/~michael-gruz/+archive/canon-trunk](https://launchpad.net/~michael-gruz/+archive/canon-trunk)

Cheers! :p

---

