---
title: "Hardy, Screen Resolution 640*480 instead of 1600*1050"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by irifan on 2008-04-25
Hi everyone,

I would like to run my Acer AL2216W @ 1600*1050. Before installing the nvidia restricted driver I could run the system with 800*600, now its just 640*480. It has been working with gutsy and win xp.

Thanks for any advice,

My Xorg.conf is way to short :)

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"de"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by irifan on 2008-04-26
sudo displayconfig-gtk

I have found that in another thread.

the AL22216W ist not in the list. After checking on the Acer Homepage the Frequency range is 30-82 and 56-76, the same as the  AL2216WC, so i chose that model.

Now I am a very happy ubuntu user again :)

---

