---
title: "Laptop running hot, especially while plugged in"
date: 2014-04-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by LMollins917 on 2014-04-24
I'm dual booting Windows 8 and Ubuntu 14.04 on a new laptop (MSI GE40). 

So, my laptop is really hot when running ubuntu, specifically around the trackpad and the area immediately surrounding it, even when I'm not running anything remotely intensive. In Windows I don't have the same problem at all, with the laptop running incredibly cool, nor is the laptop 'as' hot when running without AC power, although it never quite reaches the same level as windows. 

I have already installed laptop mode tools, and made the changes in the configuration file mentioned here: 

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/141343/hard-drive-overheats-when-laptop-running-on-ac-power](http://askubuntu.com/questions/141343/hard-drive-overheats-when-laptop-running-on-ac-power) 

I first changed  
NOLM_HD_IDLE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=7200 
to 600, then later down to 60 in some vain hope it might change something 

I have an nvidia graphics card, but I installed bumblebee and now it should only be in use when I specifically call for it, and should otherwise just be using Intel graphics. 

The other thing, is I have installed lm-sensors, as well as hddtemp. I've also checked the gpu heat from the nvidia card using: 
optirun nvidia-smi 
optirun is required by bumblebee to call the card into action, so I'm not really sure how to check for the temperature that is being generated by the use of Intel graphics. 
The readouts from all the different sensors, for the processor cores, for the hard disk, and for the gpu, all seem to be in an acceptable range, ranging from low 40's to high 40's. 

The gpu temperature does seem to be lower when not plugged into AC power, at around 38 C (or 36C when it's sitting idle), while averaging around 42/43 with AC power, sometimes higher.
The same with the hard disk temperature, and the CPU temperature, all dropping by a couple of points when not plugged into AC. 
So to reiterate, while it's still not ideal, there is a definite change (at least in the heat I can 'feel' around the trackpad) when the laptop is not plugged in. 

That said, none of that seems that high to me anyway, and I can't figure out what could be causing the kind of heat there is, or even why there is still a big difference when plugged in and when running on battery. 

I'm really at a loss, so many thanks in advance if anyone can help.

---

