---
title: "12.04 freezes when docking with dual monitors"
date: 2012-06-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by scotchie on 2012-06-14
After upgrade from 11.10 to 12.04, my laptop freezes whenever I plug it into the docking station. When I boot it from inside the docking station, the login screen works fine, but it freezes after logon. This all worked fine with 11.10.

I have a Lenovo T420 (Intel integrated graphics) with 2 external Acer V233H monitors connected to the docking station, one connected via a DVI cable and the other via a VGA cable. 

When it freezes, I either get a purple Ubuntu 12.04 LTS splash screen with no mouse pointer, or else I get a black screen with a mouse pointer near the left side of the VGA monitor. In either case, none of the keyboard/mouse inputs works - neither the external ones connected to the dock nor the built-in input devices. Only hard-shutdown via the laptop's power button seems to do anything.

I've found a strange workaround.

[LIST=1]
[*]Boot it outside of the docking station,
[*]Remove ~/.config/monitors.xml
[*]Plug it into the docking station. Neither of the monitors automatically comes on.
[*]Open the "Displays" dialog. Automatically, the DVI monitor is detected, but not the VGA monitor. Pressing "Detect Displays" does not detect the VGA monitor.
[*]Enable the DVI monitor at the default (maximum - 1920x1080) resolution and click "Apply". Instantly, the VGA monitor is automatically detected as soon as the DVI monitor is enabled.
[*]Change the VGA monitor to the 2nd-step-down resolution (1680x1050), disable the laptop display, enable the VGA monitor, and click "Apply". After this point, I get both monitors enabled and working. 
Note that if I enable both monitors at the default/maximum 1920x1080 resolution, then the screen  freezes as described above.
[/LIST]
Although I have a workaround, I would prefer something that "just plain works". Does anyone have any ideas on how I can troubleshoot this?

I do believe it has something to do with enabling both monitors at the maximum 1920x1080 resolution, as the login screen works and that seems to be at a lower resolution. However, monitors.xml is remembering my choice of resolutions,  yet I have to remove it to prevent the problem.

Any help greatly appreciated!!!

Thanks,
Scott

---

### Post by scotchie on 2012-07-09
The solution to bug 992778 has solved my problem.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/992778](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/992778)

Only problem is that this bug fix has not been included in the Ubuntu standard distribution. Now every time upgrade manager runs, it suggests that I "upgrade" back to the broken version.

Does anyone know how to get this fix included in the standard Ubuntu packages so that other users can benefit without any workarounds?

---

