---
title: "10.04 - Long Delay Before Document Prints"
date: 2010-06-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lightnb on 2010-06-23
I have several network printers, among them an HP CP2025, and an Eltron EPL 2844. On Ubuntu 8.04 and on Windows, there's a 1 second delay between selecting "print" and the document actually printing.

On my machines which I've upgraded to 10.04, there's a good 15 - 20 second delay before printing starts. The light starts blinking immediately, but you have to wait forever for the document to begin printing.

Is this a known issue? Is there a work around? How do I find the source of the problem?

Thanks,
Nick

---

### Post by lightnb on 2010-07-30
bump.

---

### Post by j0eb0b on 2010-07-30
You are not alone.  I am using a Brother 2170W which can take up to 20 minutes to print once the light starts blinking.  The printer is connected wireless to a router and the other devices including the Ubuntu system are connected via RJ 45 to the router.  This is a problem (from a number) that seem unique to 10.04.  The problem appears to me to be that the Ubuntu print spooler buffers graphics oriented output in very small chunks.  Plain text prints much more rapidly.  Last night I printed an on line receipt that exhibited this behavior and the problem seemed to be related to all the pictures the on line site embedded in their receipt image.  If anyone can advise where a bug report on this should be filled please advise.

---

### Post by stonebit on 2010-08-09
Same issue here with a Brother 2170w. I've tried all 3 or 4 of the transport protocols. Same delay with each. Ubuntu test page zips out in less than a second. Everything else is about 5-20 minutes. I'm just about ready to install cups from source. If i try, i'll post results.

---

