---
title: "8.04 64bit - Does not see Network Printer HP 4050TN"
date: 2009-10-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kilroy0097 on 2009-10-06
I have an issue setting up a network printer that formerly worked and for some reason no longer works. It could be from a recent update or a conflict I'm not sure. I would appreciate some insight from the community on this issue.

First off the printer in question is full operational. Test prints from other window's machines are successful. Test print from a Mac OSX also was successful.

My original settings for the network printer were setup through default Printer configuration - localhost. I had to set up the printer under the "Other" option and put in a 
Device URI: hp:/net/HP_LaserJet_4050_Series?ip=128.194.169.134
Make and Model: HP Laserjet 4050 Series Postscript (recommended)

I have attempted to delete the printer and after a full restart add the printer again. That doesn't seem to work.

After some investigation I went to the hplib site: 
[http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/models/laserjet/hp_laserjet_4050_series.html#note1](http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/models/laserjet/hp_laserjet_4050_series.html#note1)

Downloaded the installer file and installed it. When attempting to setup the printer through the HP GUI Device Manager it throws the error: "Device not found. Please check connection and power-on device" even when attempting to connect through the advance manual option. The printer's IP and Domain name both communicate through ping from this computer so obviously I can see them network wise.

I attempted to run the hp-check -t command to see if gave some insight on the error:

> 
HP Linux Imaging and Printing System (ver. 3.9.8)
Dependency/Version Check Utility ver. 13.0

Copyright (c) 2001-7 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, LP
This software comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
This is free software, and you are welcome to distribute it
under certain conditions. See COPYING file for more details.

Note: hp-check can be run in three modes:
1. Compile-time check mode (-c or --compile): Use this mode before compiling the
HPLIP supplied tarball (.tar.gz or .run) to determine if the proper dependencies
are installed to successfully compile HPLIP.                                    
2. Run-time check mode (-r or --run): Use this mode to determine if a distro    
supplied package (.deb, .rpm, etc) or an already built HPLIP supplied tarball   
has the proper dependencies installed to successfully run.                      
3. Both compile- and run-time check mode (-b or --both) (Default): This mode    
will check both of the above cases (both compile- and run-time dependencies).   

Saving output in log file: hp-check.log

Initializing. Please wait...
warning: Invalid ppd_dir value: /usr/share/ppd/hpijs/HP
warning: Invalid drv_dir value: /usr/share/cups/drv/hp/

---------------
| SYSTEM INFO |
---------------

Basic system information:
Linux kilroy.tamu.edu 2.6.24-24-generic #1 SMP Fri Sep 18 16:16:18 UTC 2009 x86_64 GNU/Linux

Distribution:
ubuntu 8.04

HPOJ running?
No, HPOJ is not running (OK).

Checking Python version...
OK, version 2.5.2 installed

Checking PyQt version...
OK, version 3.17 installed.

Checking SIP version...
error: SIP not installed or version not found.

Checking for CUPS...
Status: scheduler is running
Version: 1.3.7


------------------------------------
| COMPILE AND RUNTIME DEPENDENCIES |
------------------------------------

note: To check for compile-time only dependencies, re-run hp-check with the -c parameter (ie, hp-check -c).
note: To check for run-time only dependencies, re-run hp-check with the -r parameter (ie, hp-check -r).

Checking for dependency: cups - Common Unix Printing System...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: cups-ddk - CUPS driver development kit...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: cups-devel- Common Unix Printing System development files...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: gcc - GNU Project C and C++ Compiler...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: GhostScript - PostScript and PDF language interpreter and previewer...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: libcrypto - OpenSSL cryptographic library...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: libjpeg - JPEG library...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: libnetsnmp-devel - SNMP networking library development files...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: libpthread - POSIX threads library...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: libtool - Library building support services...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: libusb - USB library...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: make - GNU make utility to maintain groups of programs...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: PIL - Python Imaging Library (required for commandline scanning with hp-scan)...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: ppdev - Parallel port support kernel module....
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: PyQt - Qt interface for Python...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: python-devel - Python development files...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: Python 2.3 or greater - Required for fax functionality...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: Python 2.2 or greater - Python programming language...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: Reportlab - PDF library for Python...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: SANE - Scanning library...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: SANE - Scanning library development files...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: scanimage - Shell scanning program...
OK, found.

Checking for dependency: xsane - Graphical scanner frontend for SANE...
OK, found.


----------------------
| HPLIP INSTALLATION |
----------------------


Currently installed HPLIP version...
HPLIP 3.9.8 currently installed in '/usr/share/hplip'.

Current contents of '/etc/hp/hplip.conf' file:
# hplip.conf.  Generated from hplip.conf.in by configure.

[hplip]
version=3.9.8

[dirs]
home=/usr/share/hplip
run=/var/run
ppd=/usr/share/ppd/hpijs/HP
ppdbase=/usr/share/ppd/hpijs
doc=/usr/share/doc/hplip-3.9.8
icon=/usr/share/applications
cupsbackend=/usr/lib/cups/backend
cupsfilter=/usr/lib/cups/filter
drv=/usr/share/cups/drv/hp

# Following values are determined at configure time and cannot be changed.
[configure]
network-build=yes
pp-build=no
gui-build=yes
scanner-build=yes
fax-build=yes
dbus-build=yes
cups11-build=no
doc-build=yes
shadow-build=no
hpijs-install=no
foomatic-drv-install=no
foomatic-ppd-install=no
foomatic-rip-hplip-install=no
hpcups-install=yes
cups-drv-install=no
cups-ppd-install=yes
internal-tag=3.9.8.36
restricted-build=no
ui-toolkit=qt4
qt3=no
qt4=yes
policy-kit=yes
hpijs-only-build=no
lite-build=no
udev-acl-rules=no


--------------------------
| DISCOVERED USB DEVICES |
--------------------------

No devices found.

---------------------------------
| INSTALLED CUPS PRINTER QUEUES |
---------------------------------

 
hdcprt1
-------
Type: Printer
Installed in HPLIP?: Yes, using the hp: CUPS backend.
Device URI: hp:/net/HP_LaserJet_4050_Series?ip=128.194.169.134
PPD: /etc/cups/ppd/hdcprt1.ppd
PPD Description: HP LaserJet 4050 Series Postscript (recommended)
Printer status: printer hdcprt1 is idle.  enabled since Tue 06 Oct 2009 03:18:23 AM CDT
error: Unable to communicate with device (code=12): hp:/net/HP_LaserJet_4050_Series?ip=128.194.169.134

PDF
---
Type: Unknown
Installed in HPLIP?: No, not using the hp: or hpfax: CUPS backend.
Device URI: cups-pdf:/
PPD: /etc/cups/ppd/PDF.ppd
PPD Description: Generic PDF file generator
Printer status: printer PDF is idle.  enabled since Wed 02 Jul 2008 04:57:28 AM CDT
warning: Printer is not HPLIP installed. Printers must use the hp: or hpfax: CUPS backend to function in HPLIP.

----------------------
| SANE CONFIGURATION |
----------------------

'hpaio' in '/etc/sane.d/dll.conf'...
OK, found. SANE backend 'hpaio' is properly set up.

Checking output of 'scanimage -L'...
 
No scanners were identified. If you were expecting something different, check that the scanner is plugged in, turned on and detected by the sane-find-scanner tool (if appropriate). Please read the documentation which came with this software (README, FAQ, manpages).


---------------------
| PYTHON EXTENSIONS |
---------------------

Checking 'cupsext' CUPS extension...
OK, found.

Checking 'pcardext' Photocard extension...
OK, found.

Checking 'hpmudext' I/O extension...
OK, found.

Checking 'scanext' SANE scanning extension...
OK, found.


-----------------
| USB I/O SETUP |
-----------------


Checking for permissions of USB attached printers...
 
-----------
| SUMMARY |
-----------

error: 3 errors and/or warnings.

Please refer to the installation instructions at:
[http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/index.html](http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/index.html)


It doesn't look like it gave any insight. 

I haven't printed anything from the computer in a few weeks so whatever messed up my ability to print could have happened with any number of package updates or something else. 

I tried reinstalling packages through Synaptic including CUPS and HPLIP related packages.

Any ideas on a direction I could take?

Thanks!

---

### Post by kilroy0097 on 2009-10-06
Well this is an odd thing that has happened. Apparently with one of the updates it decided to switch the device names of my NICs. I have two NICs, one on the motherboard that doesn't work and one on a card that is the one that works. My card was assigned to eth0 and my onboard to eth1. Well it seems as if they switched device names for no apparent reason. So I had to change my /etc/network/interfaces file to assign my static IP to eth1 instead of eth0. Suddenly everything works fine again. Figured it out after 5 hours of messing with it. Man what a headache!

BTW these commands are very useful.

$ifconfig -a

$netstat -rn

---

