---
title: "Hp 2133"
date: 2008-07-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jeffgdowns25 on 2008-07-26
I just recently purchased one of those hp 2133 love it, but have some issues I have model number KX869AT. It came with SLED. did not like it, so tried Opensuse, could not get things to work correctly and trying now to get Ubunto running 8.04.1 Followed the nice instructions on this site [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133) which really are good. but I have an issue. the laptop loads but the VGA port does not clone the LCD screen. I load the VIA drivers per the website but what happens is the VGA port clones the display but on the logon screen on the LCD screen of the PC it starts to scroll. Once I log on the LCD screen does show the desktop but looks like crap. I have tried multipule different xorg.conf and redone the box about 6 times and everytime I get the same result. What am I doing wrong? has anyone else seen this issue.

I really do not care of 3d acceleration, I just want the VGA port to clone the display and be able to use the box. would openchrome fix my isssue. If so any good instructions on how to do this?

Thanks in advance to a rookie Linux guy

---

### Post by dave_t_uk on 2008-08-09
Hi, I'd just like to say thanks for the excellent guide at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HP2133).  This has literaly saved me hours, and enabled me to get even more hardware working on my HP2133 than before I broke the SLED10 installation by installing SP2.

One comment to the wiki editor(s), for the alsa driver compilation fails with the current downloadable version (alsa-driver-1.0.17), but it works with alsa-driver-1.0.17rc3.  You can get this slightly older version by clicking in the 'package' column on the alsa download page, and manually selecting alsa-driver-1.0.17rc3.

Thanks again!

Dave

---

### Post by catdriver97 on 2008-08-09
> **dave_t_uk said:**
> 

One comment to the wiki editor(s), for the alsa driver compilation fails with the current downloadable version (alsa-driver-1.0.17), but it works with alsa-driver-1.0.17rc3.  You can get this slightly older version by clicking in the 'package' column on the alsa download page, and manually selecting alsa-driver-1.0.17rc3.


Thanks for the update Dave.  I haven't tried the release version of alsa-driver-1.0.17 yet, but the recommendation I've seen is to substitute:
```

./configure --with-cards=hda-intel

```
for the line that used to say:
```
./configure
```
As soon as I try it I'll let you know how it works.

Erik

---

### Post by marazoom on 2008-08-10
Forgive another fellow noob here, but I'm also having problems with the video driver on the KX869AT with the 2.6.24-19-generic kernel. I downloaded the chrome9.83-242-u804 driver from the VIA linux site, vinstall completed successfully, but I can't load the via_chrome9 driver through xorg or manually.

$ sudo modprobe via_chrome9
FATAL: Error inserting via_chrome9 (/lib/modules/2.6.24-19-generic/kernel/drivers/char/drm/via_chrome9.ko): Invalid module format

The via and drm drivers load without errors (manually), it's only via_chrome9 that won't load. X seems to be defaulting to the ACPI video driver, at least if I read lsmod correctly. It works OK, but I get random red/blue artifacts in images, and the refresh rate on videos is pretty slow.

I tried changing my xorg.conf to use openchrome, as was suggested on another thread here, but I just get the gray sparkly screen of death. :/

---

### Post by jtappin on 2008-08-12
> **marazoom said:**
> 
$ sudo modprobe via_chrome9
FATAL: Error inserting via_chrome9 (/lib/modules/2.6.24-19-generic/kernel/drivers/char/drm/via_chrome9.ko): Invalid module format

The via and drm drivers load without errors (manually), it's only via_chrome9 that won't load. X seems to be defaulting to the ACPI video driver, at least if I read lsmod correctly. It works OK, but I get random red/blorgive another fellow noob here, but I'm also having problems with the video driver on the KX869AT with the 2.6.24-19-generic kernel. I downloaded the chrome9.83-242-u804 driver from the VIA linux site, vinstall completed successfully, but I can't load the via_chrome9 driver through xorg or manually.


The problem is that the modules that come with the binary driver are for 2.6.24-16 (the original Hardy kernel) the current version is -19 or -20. There are two possible fixes:
1) Downgrade to the -16 kernel.
2) Rebuild the modules using VIA's patches. 
On the VIA download page [http://linux.via.com.tw/support/downloadFiles.action]("http://http://linux.via.com.tw/support/downloadFiles.action") you will see 3 columns of downloads the right-hand one is the sources and for Ubuntu/Hardy there is one that is labelled "Stable: chrome9-patch"--grab that and follow the instructions in the two included pdf files. (Of course you can merge the two parts where the configurations are concerned -- e.g. you'll only need to do "make oldconfig" once).

For me that improved the glxgears rate from about 135 to about 350fps.

---

### Post by marazoom on 2008-08-14
thanks jtappin, that did the trick! I compiled the drivers into the kernel yesterday morning and it loads like a charm. I haven't tried enabling compiz yet, though.

---

