---
title: "10.10 mouse pointer missing with intel video drivers"
date: 2010-10-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by alfaqq on 2010-10-14
Hey

I have a problem with invisible mouse pointer
just upgraded my laptop to ubuntu 10.10 and manually installed intel video drivers like this -[ link ]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Mavericki8xxStatus#Manually%20enabling%20the%20Intel%20driver")
but after reboot there is no mouse pointer
I know there are some threads concerning this problem but people seemd to be happy with revert to fbdev and thus there is no video or 3d acceleration

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2010-10-14
I upgraded my Dell Inspiron 500 from 10.04 to 10.10 last night and I also have this problem when I boot up.

What fun! trying to guest where the pointer is! I've enabled the "Locate Pointer" feature so I can pin-point its position with the <ctrl> key. Its better entertainment than any of the installed games.

I had this problem a few months ago with a Compaq, and the work-around was to use a different kernel (I think I used RT). Eventually a routine kernel update seemed to fix it and the problem went away.

On the Dell I've found that closing the lid, waiting for the leds to settle, then lifting it again brings the pointer back...the good news is that at least the laptop will sleep and then wake without crashing to a blank screen at it did in 10.04...that's progress.

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2010-10-14
...I've settled on the fbdev driver as a temporary workaround to this problem.

To do this I just deleted my \etc\X11\xorg.conf file (which had specified the Intel driver).

---

### Post by alfaqq on 2010-10-18
problem solved thanks to Stefan Glasenhardt [link]("http://glasen-hardt.de/")
with his kernel patch the mouse pointer is visible and video acceleration works ok
still no 3d acceleration, at least in my case

---

### Post by jahLux on 2010-10-23
> **alfaqq said:**
> problem solved thanks to Stefan Glasenhardt [link]("http://glasen-hardt.de/")
with his kernel patch the mouse pointer is visible and video acceleration works ok
still no 3d acceleration, at least in my case

This worked for me also - don't forget to do a 'sudo apt-get update' - between the two commands issued by Stefan.
Thanks guys!

---

