---
title: "14.04 system hanging when attempting to attach a Drobo S"
date: 2015-07-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by redvenomweb on 2015-07-27
I have a Drobo S (USB 3.0, eSATA) that I've been using for a while; it is successfully recognized by Win7 when connecting via USB 3.0.

When I attempt to connect it to my 14.04 laptop (Thinkpad T420 with ExpressCard USB 3.0 card), the system does not recognize the Drobo.  When I attempt to run sudo lshw, it gets to SCSI and then hangs; if I try to shut down the computer, it hangs; if I try to boot up the computer with the Drobo connected, it hangs.  For what it's worth, this laptop also has an eSATA port, and the symptoms are all the same if I attempt to connect the Drobo via eSATA.

As I mentioned, the Drobo connects via USB 3.0 in Windows 7 (to another computer).  I can also successfully connect other USB 3.0 drives to the 14.04 PC via the aforementioned USB 3.0 card.

What logs should I be pulling to start to troubleshoot this problem?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-27
You don't give any indication you have researched this so try [this]("https://duckduckgo.com/?q=drobo+ubuntu"). Looks like it is possible and you might find some clues there. Let us know what you try and if it works or not. Provide links to anything you try. Good luck.

---

### Post by redvenomweb on 2015-07-27
Let me give a little more background:

I have used this Drobo (connecting via eSATA) on a 10.04 PC for the last 4 years.  I had specifically looked for problems with Ubuntu 14.04 hanging/freezing when trying to connect a Drobo and I found this:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/530301/hang-in-14-04-when-mounting-ntfs-drobo-via-firewire](http://askubuntu.com/questions/530301/hang-in-14-04-when-mounting-ntfs-drobo-via-firewire)

It's a Firewire Drobo (not USB) but it's a start.  However, I don't know which log was being opened in the cited article.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-27
Perhaps this might help:

> We recommend use of the lsscsi command which lists all SCSI devices rather straightforwardly (you might need to install it with apt-get lsscsi or yum install lsscsi).

From [here]("http://support.drobo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/165/~/how-do-i-use-my-drobo-with-a-linux-machine%3F"). Perhaps that will give a different result to lsusb. Check out the link for other clues. It appears Drobo is not compatible with EXT4, the file system used by modern Ubuntu installs, not that that would be the issue here unless you've dropped in a drive formatted with EXT4.

The odd thing is that you should be able to plug in and there it is. Treat it like any other. There is nothing exotic or unusual about this device from what I've read online. Have you tried another USB cable???

---

### Post by redvenomweb on 2015-09-24
Just as an update:  The problem here appears to have been that I was using 32-bit Ubuntu.  As some additional background info, I had one of the drives in the Drobo fail, and when I replaced it I did a firmware update on the Drobo; apparently, that firmware update made it impossible for 32-bit versions of Ubuntu to access the 16TB volume (which, as mentioned, I had been doing for years).  Upgrading to 64-bit Ubuntu solved my problem.

---

