---
title: "8.04 on dell vostro 1400"
date: 2008-07-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by cpatton90 on 2008-07-05
I know this has been a long discussed topic, but I am still unable to find the answers to my question. Ubuntu 7.10 worked like a charm with a little configuration. With 8.04, everything worked right out of the box (from update OR a fresh install). However, my sound doesn't function correctly. 

I don't know exactly what's going on, but if I'm running rhythmbox then adobe flash can't make sound, or if I'm running a flash program, rhythmbox won't make sound. The strange thing is that as long as I'm not running rhythmbox (or for that matter any other multimedia program), I can run multiple flash programs simultaneously and they'll all make sound. 

It's probably a real newb  thing to say, but it's as if the sound device isn't threading? My device is the standard HDA intel audio device that comes on the vostros.

Thanks for any help!
Chris


Oh, my mic isn't working either, but I hear there isn't any way to get it running on a vostro at all. If anybody did, please let me know!

---

### Post by empty_tank on 2008-07-06
try Comprehensive Sound Problem Solutions Guide v0.5e at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449)

It helped me a lot using a similar laptop

---

### Post by empty_tank on 2008-07-06
your pulseaudio seems to be the problem.  Try HOWTO: PulseAudio Fixes & System-Wide Equalizer Support (Hardy Heron) at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)

---

### Post by cpatton90 on 2008-07-06
That did the trick! I did steps A & B, but I'm not sure whether or not step A helped. Updating flash to version 10 seemed to be what fixed the problem. 

Thanks so much!

---

