---
title: "20.04 LTS keyboard not working"
date: 2020-09-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by qviiintn on 2020-09-03
Hello,

I've ben using Ubuntu 20.04 LTS for a month without any issue. Yesterday, I tried to log in with my keyboard but it didn't respond. My mouse is working and I managed to enter and launch the terminal. As suggested in some pages, I typed "sudo apt-get install-xserver-xorg-input-all", pressed enter and rebooted but it made no difference.
I also tried getting to the Gurb and I was able to type in it, so I assume the issue is not due to the keyboard itself.
My laptop is an Acer E5-511, if it helps.

Does anyone have an idea how I could resolve this?

---

### Post by crip720 on 2020-09-03
Guessing that you have updated to kernel 5.4.0-44.  Would use kernel 5.4.0-42 or earlier, for now, or an external keyboard(wireless works for me)

---

### Post by tapasray on 2020-09-03
> **crip720 said:**
> Guessing that you have updated to kernel 5.4.0-44.  Would use kernel 5.4.0-42 or earlier, for now, or an external keyboard(wireless works for me)

Will use an external if regressing doe not work. My current kernel is 5.4.0-45-generic. 

Thank you. I appreciate your help.

---

### Post by tapasray on 2020-09-03
Very sorry, posted in the wrong thread.

---

### Post by qviiintn on 2020-09-03
Thank you! I've just switched to a previous kernel and it does work. I'll try with an external keyboard when I can.

---

### Post by crip720 on 2020-09-03
There was a post askubuntu about using the [discover] command, have not tried it yet(using another laptop)

---

