---
title: "1024x768 on Intel 945GM"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Vermind on 2008-12-29
Hi,
I have an Asus EEE PC 901 Linux, which I installed eeebuntu Standard 2.0 (Intrepid 8.10 based) on. The default Xandros on the machine allows a compressed resolution of 1024x768, and other choices such as 800x600. The eeebuntu system seems to allow 1024x600 and 640x480 only. I would like to achieve 1024x768, but the ubuntu resolution switch app does not show it. xrandr does not show the mode either. Putting modelines or Modes in Display subsections in xorg.conf has no effect. There's a note in the xorg.conf file saying that stuff is done automatically now. I also read that in the new Xorg, the 915resolution app is no longer needed for video mode switching on the intel cards, since the new Xorg has a "more automatic" way for switching them. So, how do I switch video modes? How do I enable 1024x768? The intel video driver man page is surprisingly little help. xvidtune does not show other resolutions than 1024x600. Any ideas?

here is my xorg.conf:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"intel"
	Driver		"intel"
	Option "AccelMethod" "EXA"
	Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
	Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
	Option "ExaNoComposite" "false"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"intel"
	DefaultDepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes "1024x768" "1024x600" "800x600" "640x480"
		Depth 8
		Virtual 1024 800
	EndSubSection	
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes "1024x768" "1024x600" "800x600" "640x480"
		Depth 16
		Virtual 1024 800
	EndSubSection	
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes "1024x768" "1024x600" "800x600" "640x480"
		Depth 24
		Virtual 1024 800
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Xtnd on 2009-01-04
Hi! Nice to see I'm not alone in trying to figure this out...
Also on a 901, though i have a vanilla 8.10 + Adams kernel (array.org)
From all I've read so far, one possible answer would be to add:

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "AutoAddDevices" "False"

in xorg.conf. 
If I understand this correctly, what is entered manually then "is used" 
somehow...
I haven't tried this myself yet, as I'm not confident this is the answer...
I've also tried to figure out some entries regarding bugs reported on intels drivers in Launchpad... Didn't really help since, well, I'm not
that skilled and it seemed to apply to mostly pre-8.10 ?

One question; my xorg.conf is almost empty, have you edited yours manually?

---

### Post by Vermind on 2009-01-06
Thanks for the reply. AutoAddDevices does not help, it seems to be for input devices only.

Yes, I edited my xorg.conf, to include 
```
	Driver		"intel"
	Option "AccelMethod" "EXA"
	Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
	Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
	Option "ExaNoComposite" "false"

```
in the Device section, which was supposed to improve performance. This is from a gentoo intel driver guide.

I also inserted
```
	DefaultDepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes "1024x768" "1024x600" "800x600" "640x480"
		Depth 8
		Virtual 1024 800
	EndSubSection	
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes "1024x768" "1024x600" "800x600" "640x480"
		Depth 16
		Virtual 1024 800
	EndSubSection	
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes "1024x768" "1024x600" "800x600" "640x480"
		Depth 24
		Virtual 1024 800
	EndSubSection
```
in the screen section, in the hope that my monitor would reach a higher resolution, or that the Virtual panning option would work.

---

### Post by Xtnd on 2009-01-06
Hmm, I kind of suspected that... 
So, the question is, as it seems that manually editing xorg.conf doesn't affect anything, why is this?
I think I've read some forumposts somewhere that discussed HAL and Ubuntus new "bulletproofX" or something along that...
Sadly the computer I used then I've formatted/reinstalled...
I'll try to find this again...

---

### Post by Xtnd on 2009-01-08
Well, no real luck in finding what I wanted to find...
While searching I came across something that might not be too far off...
Though the posts I read mainly concerned people with Nvidia and pre-8.10,
what had helped some of them were to add ( in Screen section of xorg.conf)

Option "UseEdid" "False"

or different variations of this...(depending on which GPU, OS version etc.)

One problem is, it seems that it somehow works differently whether you have Intel, ATI or Nvidia...
Not sure this is any help either, just some thoughts...
I'll continue searching/scratching my head...

---

### Post by Vermind on 2009-01-18
Hello,
the UseEDID option seems to have no effect on Intel in Intrepid. I looked at some variants of it, did not try yet. The screen is not actually capable of 1024x768; that resolution is a "compressed resolution", a driver hack on the XP version and the xandros of the device. I wonder if the hack exists in the driver to begin with, so it could be enabled somehow, or not... I heard about an option called FrameBufferCompression for the intel card, but I don't think thats it.

---

### Post by densou on 2009-01-20
Intrepid surprised me when I got my display well-detected, so I deleted all virtual screen stuff .... I think it's worth a try, right ? ;) 

e.g.
```
Section "Screen"
        Identifier 	"Default Screen"
	Device 		"intel"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Vermind on 2009-01-27
Hi,
yes, my display has been well detected. However, the problem is that it does not yield the 1024x768 resolution, since the hardware cannot manage it. It also does not yield a scrollable desktop like one can get with nvidia drivers. And the Intel driver hack for the windows and linux preinstalled versions of this eee pc allow 1024x768 by artificially scaling it (it was called compressed resolution). I am looking for a solution like scrollable screen or scaled height, to get the 768 (scaled)pixels of height required by some apps.

---

### Post by toddedw on 2009-04-26
I just installed Jaunty on my 1000h and I have been looking for a solution for this all day. Has anyone had any luck? </wordy bump>

---

