---
title: "16.04 - NVIDIA CUDA hard crashes ubuntu"
date: 2017-06-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jamminpower on 2017-06-29
Hello. I have a small server farm of 8 machines (Dell T5500 to be exact), all equipped with NVIDIA Titan Black GPU cards. 4 of them run Windows 7 and 4 run ubuntu. I am using nvidia-381 drivers on the ubuntu machines, downloaded through apt-get.

I have a short CUDA program (free download gpu_burn) that reliably crashes 3 of the 4 ubuntu machines. The windows machines do NOT crash on the same program. All the machines have identical hardware. I thought the ubuntu machines had exactly the same software load, but I guess one of them is different.

It is NOT hardware - I can swap the hard drives of an ubuntu and a windows machine, and the problem follows the ubuntu HD.

I am guessing it is some interaction with the driver. I would ask that you folks try gpu_burn yourselves with either driver 375 or 381 (both crash) and see if you can duplicate the problem. Else, give me some hints of where to sniff to figure out what is different.

P.S. - I did do the following to make sure the driver was consistent:
Any thoughts?

sudo apt-get purge nvidia*
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:graphics-drivers/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-381

---

### Post by jamminpower on 2017-07-25
OK - I fixed it. It turns out that it was the power supply. Technically, the 850W supply that Dell installs in the T5500 should have been powerful enough, but it wasn't. I put in a Cooler Master V1000 and everything works fine. I think it is not an issue of total power, but more about transient response. The NVidia GPU can go from 0 to 42 amps in microseconds and I don't think the regulation Dell supply can do that. The V1000 is probably total overkill, but it got the job done.

---

