---
title: "10.10 and Creative X Fi Extreme Music"
date: 2010-10-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jinliew on 2010-10-24
Hi All,

I'm having difficulty getting my X Fi Extreme Music working with Ubuntu 10.10 (whilst my motherboard's Intel HDA built in sound card works fine).

My X Fi worked with 9.04

I know a number of people have experienced general sound issues with 10.10, and I've tried the following suggestions in those threads to no avail:
1) Reinstalling ALSA and pulseaudio (removing and then reinstalling)
2) Removing Pulse audio settings (.pulse, .pulse-cookie etc)
3) Removing the sound card, booting up, replacing the sound card

I've run the alsa-info script and the output is at this location:
[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=becf47fa2c1bdbf3a479d81145ee71ba639777c3](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=becf47fa2c1bdbf3a479d81145ee71ba639777c3)

Any help would be greatly appreciated! =)

Jin

---

### Post by jinliew on 2010-10-25
Reinstalled pulseaudio and it looks like I've made things worse :(

When I log in as a normal user now, pulseaudio takes up 100% CPU and I'm unable to do anything much with the machine.  I cannot kill pulseaudio and eventually my machine just locks up and I have to hard reboot :(

However, if I log in as root to my GUI then sound works fine as pulseaudio does not run.

I'm at the end of my tether with pulseaudio - is there a guide to removing it and simply using ALSA for sound?  (uninstalling it also uninstalls ubuntu-desktop, so I can't simply do that) 

Sound seems to work fine when I log in as root without pulseaudio, so I'm happy to do without it.  I don't need any of the fancy stuff that it can do...  I just want sound!

---

### Post by grege on 2010-10-25
You can just go into System->Preferences->Startup Applications and unselect pulseaudio, then restart and see what happens.

ubuntu-desktop is a meta package that functions to install all the bits as dependencies. It is not the desktop itself. You should be able to remove it without grief. Just make sure that there are not dozens of other packages that would be removed before proceeding.

Install gnome-alsamixer to use as a mixer as the one on the tool bar will disappear when you remove pulseaudio.

Just a few things to try.

---

### Post by jinliew on 2010-10-25
Thanks for the tips!

I removed pulseaudio, but then lost sound - fixed it by reinstalling the following package: linux-backports-modules-alsa-maverick-generic

I had it updated by a PPA, but removed the PPA and then reinstalled it from the Ubuntu source and now at least I have sound!  Haven't tried the creative card, but at least the on board sound works.

Tried reinstalling pulseaudio after that, but it still had the race condition, so had to remove it.

Will try the X Fi again soon...

Thanks again.

---

### Post by jjpdijkstra on 2010-11-05
> **jinliew said:**
> Thanks for the tips!

linux-backports-modules-alsa-maverick-generic

I had it updated by a PPA, but removed the PPA and then reinstalled it from the Ubuntu source

Will try the X Fi again soon...

Thanks again.


so well have you tried it? Any hopes on full 5.1 support on the x-fi?

---

### Post by jjpdijkstra on 2010-11-09
So I've tried about every trick in the book. Besides the 2.6.35.23 kernels not being supported by alsa backports and reverting back to 2.6.35.22 I doesn't work. This thread is not solved, some community reactie would be much apreciated.

- you can get SB X-fi working out of the box. 
- you can't get it without the static noise or it will just stop working after 10. minutes or so.

-- reinstalling and removing .pulse is improving the sound some times when I tweak it. But as of now I'm almost considering going back to windows 7 to enjoy some 5.1 surround. Absolute creative as$ho&es and. 

The "stop working" is not resolved by the jack or pulse deamon. I thought it would be better than before. I might return to 10.04 for now. Even there I know it works better. 

People, we just want to :guitar:

---

### Post by jjpdijkstra on 2011-01-16
Hey, still no update about the true 5.1 or are lurkers not sharing?

---

### Post by jaktar on 2011-07-14
My X-fi works from a standard 10.10 x64 install without static.  Like everyone else I am missing center and sub.

---

