---
title: "1440x900 Issues"
date: 2009-02-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by NIT_L on 2009-02-18
Hi, I just installed Ubuntu and cannot select my monitor res (1440x900) but it is not available on the list. I am using the 177 Nvidia drivers, the resolution isnt available in the x server settings either. The only two resolutions I can get at the moment are 2 really small ones. Anybody have a solution to get 1440x900?

---

### Post by NIT_L on 2009-02-18
Anyone? I have tried both the latest 180.29 from nvidia and the 177 drivers but I can only get low resolutions :(

---

### Post by infoseeker on 2009-02-22
I am using a Nvidia 9600GT with 180.29 driver (proprietary) and my LCD (LG L192WS) was found automatically (running at 1440x900) without intervention.

Downloaded driver from here----->
[http://www.nvidia.com/Download/Find.aspx?lang=en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/Find.aspx?lang=en-us)

---

### Post by Ptolmy on 2009-02-22
I'm having the same issue. I have the latest drivers, an XFX 9600GT and a LG l192WS monitor and when ever I install the drivers and try to restart the xserver, it flickers for a few seconds then loads up with the "lowres" warning.

I've been try for over 2 months now to get it too work. If any one has any solutions, please help.

Incidently, it may be related but when I tried to install the driver the first time, it warned me that I was missing "libc" and it couldn't compile the kernal, which I went and downloaded. However on the previous batch of nvidia drivers -180.22- it informed me that there was an error in the driver version and library files but everytime I try check for updates it tells me its the same.

---

