---
title: "10.04 - CUPS printing problem with LJ 4250 dtn"
date: 2010-11-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lptr on 2010-11-14
Currently I am lost. For now I cannot print to our HP LJ 4250 from Ubuntu 10.04 current patch state to the embedded print server via network. Strangely this does not apply to Windows. Printer works fine from Windows XP that runs inside a virtual machine on exactly same box. I am using VMware for running XP vm.

CUPS has some sort of feature that darkens the screen before being able to ok a device print job in print dialog. Sometimes the last days when printing from any Linux apps this lasted very! long. Partly up to 15 s. Then some print jobs got printed after up to 10 minutes! Now any printing job is delayed for ever. When printing the well known test page from Windows XP from same machine the printout starts at the moment I press OK.

Inbetween I renewed the devices firmware to current version (Modellnummer:                                                                                                                    J7949E, Firmwareversion:                                                                                                                    V.33.21) because I thought it could maybe help solving the problem.

At the back side of device and embedded print server  there is a LED flashing two times short and a longer pause (no this is not network LED lamp - and: yes I searched for the meaning what this flash does mean - could not find any tech infos about that). Right above there is a heart sign. Could be that this is normal and a lifebeat signal. I admit I never gave attention to this. I detected this during my recent research.

I am attaching /var/log/cups/error_log to having a better spot to the issue.

Maybe anyone is not standing that close to the problem than me.

Thanks in advance for your help

---

