---
title: "11.10 Cannot recognize flash drives?"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by chaz03 on 2012-05-13
[IMG]https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-IFVjdp3TREo/T6_B2Blz5vI/AAAAAAAABFk/w51_hUIZrMs/s645/Screenshot+at+2012-05-13+10%3A07%3A01.png[/IMG]
[IMG]https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-DHuUJxqKnfo/T6_B2rAOqaI/AAAAAAAABFs/-NlHAhFBXtw/s645/Screenshot+at+2012-05-13+10%3A08%3A13.png[/IMG][IMG]https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-MsZPbIJfYEo/T6_B2sccoOI/AAAAAAAABF0/BYuv5Gkgp1c/s645/Screenshot+at+2012-05-13+10%3A08%3A41.png[/IMG][IMG]https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-w47fkw9ZDtg/T6_B275SCiI/AAAAAAAABF8/JgUu6k2JGdE/s645/Screenshot+at+2012-05-13+10%3A09%3A39.png[/IMG]
My Netbook: Acer Aspire One 250G Intel Atom N455 (1.66GHz, 1gb DDR3)

Hey everyone! So i recently did a reinstall of 11.04 due to a missing grub menu after trying to reinstall windows 7. I Then decided to install windows XP from a live USB and deleted a few little partitions. Ih ad like 12 and I deleted like 3 that were all under 200 mb. SO,  Xp install wasnt working, then i finally loaded Ubuntu 11.04,updated to 11.10, and all went well. Except in the beginngig of boot after selecting the Ubuntu from grub, i will get a dialog in the purple under ubunbtu stating that it the system is waiting to recognize sda5. Then after a few minutes, sometimes really fast, it boots great.
The issues that i am having now is with USB FLASH DRIVES. Ubuntu appears to recognize the My flash drive but will not pick it up in the Home folder. I took some pictures of the devices shown.
The pc will boot fine from a usb if i need to , again its almost as if i might of deleted something that inhibits me from accessing the flash drive?? Please excuse me for my lack of knowledge about the current condition. I will gratefully appreciate any help and advice! God bless

---

### Post by chaz03 on 2012-05-14
I apologize if this may appear confusing. Please let me know if there is anything else I can post. Thanks

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-14
Can it be reformatted in gparted; you have to install gparted, you don't mount to format.

---

### Post by whiskers751 on 2012-05-14
Why is it mounting /dev/sda1? That isn't your flash drive....

---

