---
title: "Hard Disc Shown As SCSI drive ?"
date: 2009-04-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ravi_buz on 2009-04-07
Hai i am new to ubuntu and starting to love it , i Installed ubuntu 8.10 and had some problem with my graphic card driver to i removed it and installed 8.04 but in this version one of my Hard disc(ide and not sata) is shown as SCSI drive , i tried to mount it but cant so can any one help me out

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-08
The old notation of /dev/hdX has mostly gone and /dev/sdX is common for IDE in some distros. Can you post the output of:```
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by ravi_buz on 2009-04-08
ravi@Ravi-desktop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc                                       /proc           proc         defaults                    0  0  
# Entry for /dev/sdb3 :
UUID=225820f5-7867-4e4e-aeaf-c1e40ae818a2  /               ext3         relatime,errors=remount-ro  0  1  
# Entry for /dev/sdb4 :
UUID=11aab801-ef3f-4ffb-95c6-db987c049044  none            swap         sw                          0  0  
/dev/scd1                                  /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8       0  0  
/dev/scd0                                  /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8       0  0  
/dev/fd0                                   /media/floppy0  auto         rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8    0  0  
/dev/sdb7                                  /media/media4   ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_IN       0  0  
/dev/sdb6                                  /media/media3   ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_IN       0  0  
/dev/sdb5                                  /media/media2   ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_IN       0  0  
/dev/sdb1                                  /media/C Drive  ntfs-3g      defaults,locale=en_IN       0  0  
/dev/sdb4                                  /media/sdb4     swap         defaults                    0  0  
/dev/sdb3                                  /               ext3         defaults                    0  0  
/dev/sdb1                                  /media/media1   ntfs         defaults                    0  0

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-08
OK which drive are you trying to mount?

---

### Post by ravi_buz on 2009-04-08
my HDD which is shown as SCSI is in sda

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-08
When you manually mount it what error do you get? Is there anything relevant from dmesg?

---

### Post by ravi_buz on 2009-04-08
i see it as only SCSI and when i tried to open or mount it it says unable to mount

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-08
Is this an internally connected device? What format is it and the fact that its sda doesn't mean the system thinks its SCSI. If its internal then are there any error messages in your logs and if its external run dmesg after connecting it to see if there are any relevant errors. Does the drive work on other systems and if you go into BIOS and autdetect hard disks does it still find it?

---

### Post by ravi_buz on 2009-04-08
It is a internal HDD, it works perfectly in other os (windows) it even worked in the live cd , it is in ntfs format i formatted it to ext3 also but no use

---

### Post by ravi_buz on 2009-04-09
Problem solved thanks to all for replying , I just removed ll the HDD and CD drives and connected one by one and restarted the system and the problem was solved

---

