---
title: "8.04 Broadcom wireless driver regression"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Method9455 on 2008-04-27
Hi,

I did a clean install of Ubuntu Hardy Heron and it went very smoothly, except that my wireless card is not working. It worked fine under 7.10. After the install on Gutsy I would have to go to the Restricted Driver manager and then click the firmware and then the driver and it worked every time. Now I go to the Hardware Drivers and there are no options. I have no wireless signals listed on the network connection applet. When I run ifconfig it only shows my wired driver.

This is the lspci -v output 


02:03.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
	Subsystem: Dell TrueMobile 1300 WLAN Mini-PCI Card
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 32, IRQ 5
	Memory at fafee000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=8K]
	Capabilities: [40] Power Management version 2

The laptop is a Dell Latitude D600

I could go and do the nwdiswraper method but I'm thinking that this is either a regression or the option I'm looking for moved somewhere. 

Thanks,
Kevin

---

### Post by Witchlight on 2008-05-20
I have the exact same problem here. Diff model laptop but same Broadcom wireless.

Oddly the hardware detection tool seems to have no trouble detecting it.
I'm thinking I'll just re-install GG then get the wirelesss up with the working restricted driver tool then follow the upgrade to HH.

---

### Post by Brian96 on 2008-06-04
> **Witchlight said:**
> I have the exact same problem here. Diff model laptop but same Broadcom wireless.

Oddly the hardware detection tool seems to have no trouble detecting it.
I'm thinking I'll just re-install GG then get the wirelesss up with the working restricted driver tool then follow the upgrade to HH.

Just wondering if your method worked. I hate it when this kind of stuff breaks after it worked so well in a previous version (in this case Gusty).

---

### Post by yipperzz on 2008-06-04
I have a Dell D600 and had to do some work to get it to work on Hardy.  I read a lot of people had it working on GG and when they upgraded it didn't work.  So I don't know if I would waste my time reinstalling and then upgrading.  

My brcm card doesn't showup on the restricted drivers either.  But I was getting errors in the system log about the firmware.  So I installed the bcm fwcutter.  After that, I set up ndiswrapper and all is working fine now.

---

### Post by uberlube on 2008-06-04
Give the howto in my sig a try and let me know if it works for hardy.

---

### Post by Brian96 on 2008-06-04
> **yipperzz said:**
> I have a Dell D600 and had to do some work to get it to work on Hardy.  I read a lot of people had it working on GG and when they upgraded it didn't work.  So I don't know if I would waste my time reinstalling and then upgrading.  

My brcm card doesn't showup on the restricted drivers either.  But I was getting errors in the system log about the firmware.  So I installed the bcm fwcutter.  After that, I set up ndiswrapper and all is working fine now.

I may have posted too soon. I think I may have manually installed the bcm fwcutter a few weeks ago and got distracted by other issues. In any event, the device showed up in my restricted manager today, so I enabled it and now all is well. No real work-arounds required.

---

### Post by yipperzz on 2008-06-04
> **Brian96 said:**
> I may have posted too soon. I think I may have manually installed the bcm fwcutter a few weeks ago and got distracted by other issues. In any event, the device showed up in my restricted manager today, so I enabled it and now all is well. No real work-arounds required.
That's good.  I don't know why mine don't show up.  But since it's working, I don't want to mess with it...lol.  But glad it's working now.

---

