---
title: "Brother Scanner Not Working"
date: 2022-12-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by wbee on 2022-12-13
Hello,

I updated the previous long term support operating system to Jellyfish and the Brother printer still works fine---but the associated  scanner won't work. Both worked perfectly with the previous os.

It is Brother MFC-J450DW.

Help! :-)

----

Thank you.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2022-12-15
Oh Brother.

Sorry, please forgive that. I couldn't help myself. :lol:

I've wrestled with Brother MFPs before and they are no fun. I never had much luck with getting them to run out of the box, but with some sweat, patience and cussing, I always managed to get there eventually.

In all likelihood, you will have to download and install your machine's Linux driver again. Brother's download site for your model is [here]("https://support.brother.com/g/b/downloadtop.aspx?c=us&lang=en&prod=mfcj450dw_us").

After you download the driver you will need to follow the instructions in the user guide to install.

I'm afraid that I can't give you anything more than such general advice. The last Brother printer I used was more than half a decade ago. I stick to HPs because of the excellent driver support provided by hplip, which is in the Ubuntu repos and is almost native to Linux.

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2022-12-15
> **wbee said:**
> Hello,

I updated the previous long term support operating system to Jellyfish  and the Brother printer still works fine---but the associated  scanner  won't work. Both worked perfectly with the previous os.

It is Brother MFC-J450DW.

Help! :smile:

----

Thank you.
Please run the command below in your terminal and paste the result here in  thread wrap with code. Regards and cheers
```
sudo cat /etc/cups/printers.conf
```

---

### Post by wbee on 2022-12-17
```
wbee@wbee-A780L3C:~$ Code:
sudo cat /etc/cups/printers.conf
Code:: command not found
[sudo] password for wbee: 
# Printer configuration file for CUPS v2.4.1
# Written by cupsd
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE WHEN CUPSD IS RUNNING
NextPrinterId 2
<Printer MFCJ450DW>
PrinterId 1
UUID urn:uuid:989c89a2-2e45-3fbd-76ff-003da2620aa4
Info MFCJ450DW
MakeModel Brother MFC-J450DW CUPS
DeviceURI usb://Brother/MFC-J450DW?serial=BROC4F146000
State Idle
StateTime 1670954503
ConfigTime 1554300894
Type 8392716
Accepting Yes
Shared Yes
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
```


Thank you. Sorry it took me this long to get back.

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2022-12-18
DuckHook just provided you the link for your printer scanner driver. Just follow the instructions during the installation for your printer scanner driver. I just want you to know that I do have a Brother printer/scanner that works smoothly in Ubuntu Operating System. Regards and cheers.

---

