---
title: "18.04 Bluetooth KB (Logitech K480) disconnections"
date: 2018-09-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by shochatd on 2018-09-29
I was going to post in Wireless, but the only existing thread on the K480 was here. The existing thread was about pairing but that's not my problem. The KB works fine unless I'm away for a while. Often, I have to hit a key a few times before it seems to "wake up" but sometimes that doesn't work. So I go into Bluetooth Settings and see that the K480 is "disconnected" (the blue light on the KB is blinking at this point which makes me think it's trying to connect). I click the "switch" to go from "Off" to "On", but then it jumps right back to "Off". I have a workaround, which is to turn off the physical switch on the back of the KB and then back on again. When I do that, it reconnects by itself with no intervention on my part. Is there a fix?

---

### Post by shochatd on 2018-10-21
This problem persists in 18.10.

---

### Post by him610 on 2018-10-21
> My keyboard doesn’t work after the connected PC wakes from sleep mode.
On the PC, change the Bluetooth wireless adapter power settings:
Go to Control Panel > System and Security > System > Device Manager. 

In Bluetooth Radios, right-click on the Bluetooth wireless adapter (for example, Dell Wireless 370 adapter) and click Properties.

In the Properties window, click the Power Management tab and uncheck Allow the computer to turn off this device to save power. 

Click OK to save the settings and restart the PC.

RE: [https://www.logitech.com/en-us/manuals/k480-immersion-guide#section8]("https://www.logitech.com/en-us/manuals/k480-immersion-guide#section8")

---

### Post by shochatd on 2018-10-21
> **him610 said:**
> RE: [https://www.logitech.com/en-us/manuals/k480-immersion-guide#section8]("https://www.logitech.com/en-us/manuals/k480-immersion-guide#section8")
Thanks for the reply. This sounds encouraging, except for one thing: These instructions appear to be for Windows. What can I do on Ubuntu that would correspond to this?

---

### Post by him610 on 2018-10-22
> These instructions appear to be for Windows 
Sometimes, one needs to use the windows procedures to figure out the Ubuntu procedures. 

Consider:
Ubuntu Settings > [ Bluetooth Adapters | Bluetooth Manager ]

Bluetooth Adapter is the equivalent of Bluetooth Radio (Windows)
Bluetooth Manager is where you can pair your Bluetooth devices with your Bluetooth Adapter

Someone once said *The Lord helps those who help themselves.*

---

### Post by shochatd on 2018-10-22
> **him610 said:**
> Sometimes, one needs to use the windows procedures to figure out the Ubuntu procedures. 

Consider:
Ubuntu Settings > [ Bluetooth Adapters | Bluetooth Manager ]

Bluetooth Adapter is the equivalent of Bluetooth Radio (Windows)
Bluetooth Manager is where you can pair your Bluetooth devices with your Bluetooth Adapter

Someone once said *The Lord helps those who help themselves.*

So how do I access this? The only "Settings" area I can find in Ubuntu 18.10 is what you get when you click the upper-right corner of the screen and then the wrench icon. There is an item there called "Bluetooth", but no "Bluetooth Adapters" or "Bluetooth Manager".
If I select "Bluetooth", I can see a few paired devices (including my keyboard), but that has only a single "connect" switch. No configuration options at all. I've installed bluez-tools which includes the command-line tools bt-adapter and bt-device. I tried both with the results below:
$ bt-adapter -i 'Keyboard K480'
[hci0]
  Name: ratel #1
  Address: A4:34:D9:08:D4:86
  Alias: ratel #1 [rw]
  Class: 0x1c0104
  Discoverable: 1 [rw]
  DiscoverableTimeout: 0 [rw]
  Discovering: 0
  Pairable: 1 [rw]
  PairableTimeout: 0 [rw]
  Powered: 1 [rw]
  UUIDs: [HeadsetAudioGateway, 00001801-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb, AVRemoteControl, OBEXFileTransfer, 00001800-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb, OBEXObjectPush, PnPInformation, AVRemoteControlTarget, IrMCSync, AudioSource, AudioSink, 00005005-0000-1000-8000-0002ee000001, 00001133-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb, PhoneBookAccess, 00001132-0000-1000-8000-00805f9b34fb, Headset]

$ bt-device -i 'Keyboard K480'
[34:88:5D:71:42:D6]
  Name: Keyboard K480
  Alias: Keyboard K480 [rw]
  Address: 34:88:5D:71:42:D6
  Icon: input-keyboard
  Class: 0x540
  Paired: 1
  Trusted: 1 [rw]
  Blocked: 0 [rw]
  Connected: 0
  UUIDs: [ServiceDiscoveryServer, HumanInterfaceDevice, PnPInformation]

None of this seems to shed any light on my problem. It also does not seem to uncover any configuration options like the ones in the Windows documentation.

---

### Post by him610 on 2018-10-22
You should be able to run Bluetooth Manager from the command line...
```
blueman-manager
```

---

### Post by shochatd on 2018-10-22
Okay, when I run that, I see my keyboard (Keyboard K480)
I click Setup.
Connect is highlighted on the left. On the right, Connect to and the radio button "Human Interface Device Service (HID)" is selected.
I click Next.
Now Finished is highlighted on the left. On the right, "Device added and connected successfully".

So where are the configuration options?

---

### Post by monosyllabicbabbling on 2018-10-22
I had a very similar problem with a bluetooth mouse, turned out to be a trust issue. I was able to fix it following these instructions: [br]1[/br]   [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2390542](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2390542)

---

### Post by shochatd on 2018-10-22
> **monosyllabicbabbling said:**
> I had a very similar problem with a bluetooth mouse, turned out to be a trust issue. I was able to fix it following these instructions: [br]1[/br]   [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2390542](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2390542)

Thanks, but your problem seems to be a pairing issue. My keyboard has remained paired throughout. Also, restarting the computer does not cause any problems. And notice that the output of bt-device showed Trusted: 1 (which I assume means true). Nevertheless, bluetoothctl is a command I have not yet explored. I'll see if it leads to anything relevant to my problem.

---

### Post by him610 on 2018-10-23
From the Bluetooth Devices window, left click View > Plugins. Plugins window opens, locate PowerManager, highlight it, make sure it is check-marked.

---

### Post by shochatd on 2018-10-23
Thanks. Sounds like we're getting warmer. Yes, it is checked. Perhaps it should be unchecked? In other words, might "power management" be the problem?

---

### Post by shochatd on 2018-10-31
I discovered that having installed blueman, I now have access to it via a nifty new control at the top-right of the screen (to the left of the menu of keyboard layouts). It has the Bluetooth logo and is green when I'm connected. I can usually re-connect using the "Recent Connections" option there, but it usually takes at least two tries, and I need to push the "pc" button on the keyboard. I was able through this interface to uncheck Pluins -> Power Manager -> Configuration -> Auto power-on, but that has not caused any change in the behavior that is the subject of this thread.

---

