---
title: "9.10 ATI 48xx 2D Choppy"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Zizzech on 2009-10-31
I have an ATI Radeon HD 4850 graphics card,
using FGLRX drivers 9.10
using Ubuntu 9.10, installed from disc

Compiz is disabled/uninstalled
Pulseaudio is disabled
default output for sound: Alsa
default output for display: X11; pipeline is xvimagesink
monitor resolution is 1440x900x24@60Hz

#glxinfo | grep -i direct
 direct rendering: Yes

3D is fine
2D is choppy
  eg
  shockwave flash*, videos**, moving/resizing windows, scrolling

* gnash, firefox

** mplayer
when vo is set to x11, it's choppy
when vo is set to xv, it's fine

---

### Post by Zizzech on 2009-10-31
bump

---

### Post by Zizzech on 2009-10-31
bump :/

---

### Post by Zizzech on 2009-10-31
bump :/

---

### Post by Zizzech on 2009-11-01
bump :/

---

### Post by GSF on 2009-11-04
same problem here, on a 4890... using restricted drivers from ubuntu 9.10 release ...

although i have compiz installed, and video playback is fine... i can't scroll or move windows without seeing some choppy graphics..

---

### Post by Zizzech on 2009-11-07
Bump again :/

---

### Post by GSF on 2009-11-07
btw, ive just tried with x11 on mplayer and it looks fine and smooth, and using adobe flash player with firefox looks fine also... on a HD 4890.

---

### Post by vexule on 2009-11-07
I was having the same issue with my HD 3850 card.  The thing that fixed it for me was installing the distribution specific packages, which is an option in the installer.  Hope that helps y'all solve the issue.  I'm new to Linux so I'm afraid that's all the help I will be able to offer.

~Vex

---

### Post by vexule on 2009-11-08
Ok -- well -- I had it working last night.  But then I rebooted and back to choppy again.  I uninstalled and reinstalled the distribution specific packages but it did not correct the problem.  That's frustrating... I don't know why it would work one day and then just magically break after a reboot.  Scrolling down webpages is such a hassel now.  

~Vex

---

### Post by Kane Hart on 2009-12-14
Same issue here 9.4 and 9.10 several drivers even kubuntu

---

### Post by Zizzech on 2010-02-27
Bump.

---

### Post by Zizzech on 2010-03-06
Is there information I'm not supplying? What else can I provide to get this fixed :/

---

