---
title: "LCD Flickering Display"
date: 2008-09-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Xyem on 2008-09-13
Short backstory, brought a 22" Wide-screen ( Belinea ) to replace a 17" CRT that was dying ( worsening intermittent flickering ) and it has shown to be a great monitor ( for £100 ) except one issue which I am hoping can be resolved.

On a Gutsy upgraded to Hardy installation ( going to test with Hardy LiveCD shortly ) some usage causes the monitor to flicker in certain areas.

Initially this problem showed up playing Sacred ( LGP beta ) where any movement resulted in the entire screen flickering. Thought it was to do with scaling ( 1024x768 stretched to fit ) until we went onto the "Yahoo Answers" site. For any who haven't seen, the background is white with diagonal light gray lines on it. When the site is scrolled, the background flickers while any part with "solid colour" does not. So it seems that any pixel with neighboring pixels of a different colour will flicker when they are changed.

Have I gotten too cheap of a monitor or is this something that can be rectified? The problem doesn't seem to be evident in Windows ( Sims 2 ).

xorg.conf below in case it is useful:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"	"true"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"DynamicTwinView"	"False"
	Option		"FlatPanelProperties"	"Scaling = Centered"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by in-dust-rial on 2008-09-13
believe it or not, but thats maybe no software issue, even if on windows everything is fine.

had a simular or maybe the same problem ...
for me the trick was to get a own energy plug the Monitor, because the monitor did not get enough power from the plug!

so try to supply more or sufficient energy for ur 22", which is still a lot of monitor ;D
i got a 22" samsung... and as there are not many 22" panels, i could be that the most panels have the same problem.
just try it
- in a nother room, or without anything else on the plug (laptop))

GOOD luck

---

### Post by Xyem on 2008-09-14
Tested in Windows XP on Yahoo's answer site and the same flickering occurs so it isn't Ubuntu specific.

In regards to your suggestion, I moved the plug from the extension lead ( where it was furthest away from the 'input' and with tower & speaker plugs in front of it ) and plugged the monitor power directly into a wall socket. However, the problem still remains.

Thanks for your suggestion but unfortunately, no luck here. Will try it on my other machine in case it is a graphics card thing ( running off 8600GT currently, 6600GT in other machine ) but my hopes aren't high -.-

---

### Post by Casper Hansen on 2008-09-14
Seems to be a bad monitor.

---

### Post by Xyem on 2008-09-14
Just out of curiosity, could this be a symptom of a bad response time? The monitor is specified at 5ms but this issue does seem to be a 'redraw' issue. It is a completely solid picture when stationary..

---

### Post by Xyem on 2008-10-17
I brought a Samsung SyncMaster 2253BW and the same flickering occurs, even using the DVI connection. I rang up Samsung and he said "It is a limitation of the technology". I don't buy that. If the monitor flickers when playing games, no gamer would buy it. If no gamers are buying them, why get the response time down? Hmm..

My opinion of LCD monitors so far? They aren't worth it if you have anything that might move on the screen -.- I want my CRT back :(

---

### Post by Riverside on 2008-11-10
> **Xyem said:**
> My opinion of LCD monitors so far? They aren't worth it if you have anything that might move on the screen -.- I want my CRT back :(Some CRT monitors are still available, at surprisingly affordable prices too.

For example:

[http://www.memory-express.co.uk/product_detail.aspx?pageid=17&r=y&id=577406](http://www.memory-express.co.uk/product_detail.aspx?pageid=17&r=y&id=577406)

---

