---
title: "[SOLVED] /proc/acpi only has &amp;quot;0 byte&amp;quot; files"
date: 2008-07-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by vandorjw on 2008-07-29
My CPU and GPU temperature are always around 50-55 when idle and 68-70 on full load (Celsius).

So I looked for a way to manually have the fans running at full throttle all the time.

When I browsed through my system files, I discovered that "/proc/acpi/fan" is empty, and "/proc/acpi" only contains some folders, just like "fan" that have only "0 byte" files.

Is this normal?

- I believe it is not and I suspect that the "0 byte" files and empty folders are the reason why my laptop runs so hot. Using Windows XP Coretemp, my temperature is only around 30 iddle and 50 full load.

PS: I am using Ubuntu 8.04.1, fully up to date, on a Dell Inspiron 1520.
GPU = Nvidia GeForce 8600 GT

(GPU and CPU are both around the same temp always.)

----------------------

So, my question, can other people check if their "/proc/acpi" is basically empty, just like mine is?


Thanks cc7


**UPDATE**

Read on the forums about a simple command = "fan control" (I figured it might be useful, but this is that happend when I tried it.

*****@inspiron1520:/proc/acpi/fan$ **fan control**
The program 'fan' is currently not installed.  You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install toshutils
bash: fan: command not found

*******@inspiron1520:/proc/acpi/fan$ sudo apt-get install toshutils

.... Installing ...

************************************************************************
*
* The update-modules command is deprecated and should not be used!
*
************************************************************************

udev active, devices will be created in /dev/.static/dev/

******@inspiron1520:/proc/acpi/fan$ fan control
**fan: laptop does not have cooling fan or kernel module not installed.**


No cooling fan installed?? whats this about??

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2008-07-30
*********@inspiron1520:~$ cat /proc/acpi/thermal_zone/TZ*/temperature
cat: /proc/acpi/thermal_zone/TZ*/temperature: [B]No such file or directory
[/B]

Should I re-install Ubuntu, (it seems like there is no temperature control)
I doubt this machine would shut off until it fries, (although lucky for me, max temp never reaches above 70 degrees Celsius)

When-ever I run a program that I know is CPU intensive, I force my CPU to run at 1.2 Ghz instead of 2.2 to keep the temperature down.

I have Intel Core 2 Duo T7500:)

---

### Post by evets25 on 2008-07-30
Don't edit any files in the entire /proc directory. This directory is part of the linux filesystem hierarchy, and is generated by system. The files in it represent physical devices. You see, in the unix world, everything is a file, even physical devices. So for each device in your system, a file is created in /proc to represent it. When something want to access a particular device, it looks in /proc, finds the file that corresponds to that device, and uses that. So /proc/acpi/fan is the file that represents your fan. Programs that want to interact with your fan use that file to access the physical hardware. The size of the file is irrelevant, since it is not meant to contain data, it merely exists as a way of pointing to the physical piece of hardware. I hope that makes sense.

Now, as for your problem, you're probably headed in the wrong direction altogether. Ignore the "fan control" thing. There is a gnome applet that you can add to your panel that will tell you the temperature of your system. You can install it using this: 
```
sudo apt-get install computertemp
```
After that, right click on the panel, and add a new applet. It should show up in the list as the "computer temperature monitor". Looking through my list of applets, I also see a "hardware sensors monitor" that does the same thing, which may be installed by default. 

Also, you can also run this command in terminal to get the same temperature readouts:
```
acpi -V
```

Type this to learn more about the "acpi" command:
```
man acpi
```

Anywho, your problem is probably more basic: Check to see if your fans are blocked on your laptop, and make sure heat is getting pumped out and cool air is getting sucked in. You could try getting some compressed air and blowing it in the fan vents to clean them out. 

Or, you could investigate whether or not your CPU is properly throttling back. There's another gnome panel applet to moniter CPU speed as well. Other than that, I don't have any ideas. Look around on the forums a bit, heat issues with laptops are fairly common, so chances are someone's already had a similar problem.

I hope some of that is useful. :)

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2008-07-30
Thanks for your post, it helped me alot.

Could you tell me how to Force my fans to always be running at 100%.
I don't care for battery life, and neither do I care about the noise either.

Also, please don't tell me I don't need this.

Thanks CC7

---

### Post by kdorf on 2008-07-31
> **evets25 said:**
> Don't edit any files in the entire /proc directory. This directory is part of the linux filesystem hierarchy, and is generated by system. The files in it represent physical devices.

Actually, that would be the /dev directory. As far as I know, there are no files in /proc that point to real, physical devices. /proc contains information on the state of your system (which can't be changed by editing the files, if I am not mistaken.)

If anything, you'd probably be able to make it run at full speed by echoing some string to a file in /dev, though what file you'd echo to and what string you would use are beyond me.

There is likely a program for this sort of thing.

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2008-07-31
Thank you for your post. At least now I have an idea what I need to search for now.

Thanks - CC7

---

### Post by evets25 on 2008-07-31
> **kdorf said:**
> Actually, that would be the /dev directory. As far as I know, there are no files in /proc that point to real, physical devices. /proc contains information on the state of your system (which can't be changed by editing the files, if I am not mistaken.)



D'oh. Silly me. Yes, you're right of course, /dev is where the physical devices exists, and /proc contains what is currently running in your system's memory. It is a dynamically generated pseudo-filesystem that keeps track of what's currently running. The point is, both are generated by the system, and shouldn't ever be touched. >.> 

I can't believe I got those mixed up.

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2008-07-31
So, all in all, it does not matter that those are 0 byte files?
As I understand it, those files are reference for the system, to tell it that the physicall components exit. 

(A bit like a map, the building is represented on a Map, but the actual "building" is somewhere else, and the "blue prints" are also in a different place)

---

### Post by evets25 on 2008-07-31
No it doesn't matter that they are 0 bytes. However, I was slightly wrong the first time I explained it. It's the /dev folder that points to physical devices. /proc points to things that are currently in the memory. 

Here's a link to the "official" documentation for it, which will probably explain it a bit more clearly than I did. :) 

[http://tldp.org/LDP/Linux-Filesystem-Hierarchy/html/](http://tldp.org/LDP/Linux-Filesystem-Hierarchy/html/)

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2008-07-31
Sweet, Thanks

---

