---
title: "Intel 915GM/GMS/910GML Graphics Chip"
date: 2009-08-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2009-08-28
I have a Dell Latitude D610 that I just installed Ubuntu 9.04 on, and I am having problems with the graphics drivers for the Intel graphics chip.

I have searched through the forums and most of the suggestions I have used, and it either resulted in not getting GUI up and running, or warnings about running in low graphics mode.

I ran compiz-check to see what it could do for me.  This is the output

Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 9.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 03)
 Driver in use:         vesa
 Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...  [SKIP]

 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
 Error: vesa driver in use 

Would you like to know more? (Y/n) Y

 The vesa driver is not capable of running Compiz, you need to install
 the proper driver for your graphics card. 

It shows vesa driver in use; but when I try to change to the i810 driver in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf I get errors about Ubuntu needing to use "Low graphics mode".  Any ideas on how to get this fixed.

---

### Post by dumblebee100 on 2009-08-28
I think u shud use "intel" in your driver area ...

I have a intel MB and I use "intel" as my driver and I could get 1400x1050 resolution and compiz was cool enough

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2009-08-28
I was able to change the driver to "intel" in xorg.conf and rebooted.  Ubuntu came up with the GUI active.  So that seemed to help.  But I am not able to change my display any higher than 1024 x 768.

Thanks for the help, at least now the display preferences is showing as a laptop.

Maybe there is something else that needs to be changed.  Not really sure; but I will keep looking as well.  If you have any other ideas, I'd appreciate it.  Thanks for the help.

I ran compiz-check again, and it is showing that it is oK to run compiz on my system now.

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2009-08-31
I spent most of the weekend working on my mother-in-laws laptop trying to get Wireless working on Windoze 7.  Anyway, I did get a chance to do a little more research and could not find anything else that would allow me to change my resolution to anymore than 1024 x 768.  Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by dumblebee100 on 2009-09-09
adding intel alone will not solve your problems in all cases ..myself I have to add modelines and modes to get my required resolution 

just follow my configuration 
```
# xorg.conf.failsafe (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-71
	VertRefresh	50-160
Modeline "1400x1050_60.00"  121.75  1400 1488 1632 1864  1050 1053 1057 1089 -hsync +vsync
Modeline "1280x1024_60.00"  109.00  1280 1368 1496 1712  1024 1027 1034 1063 -hsync +vsync
Modeline "1152x864_60.00"   81.75  1152 1216 1336 1520  864 867 871 897 -hsync +vsync

EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
	Depth 24
	Modes "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

ask me if you got any doubt ..I will try to help you ...but Im a noob too

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2009-10-15
Looked at Dell's website and found out that 1024 x 768 is the best resolution that the native display will do on the laptop.  If I attach another monitor, I can get to the resolution I want.  

Not worth doing it when I'm not at a desk, so I guess 1024 x 768 is what I have to work with.

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by anashlali on 2012-08-17
Hi 
I'm new to ubuntu, I have problem with 915gm driver, copmiz don't work any more, after tow months googling this issue I can't fix it, can you help pls?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-08-28
Closed for necromancy.

---

