---
title: "9.04 - Only sound via subwoofer"
date: 2009-08-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Nosfer1988 on 2009-08-05
Hellow,

This is my first post ever, i can't find anything to help me online so i hope that you guys can help me here.

Ive got a new laptop, a msi gx720x with a dolby surround realtek ALC1200.

uname -r
2.6.28-14-generic

just updated my alsa to 1.0.20

tried everything that i could find online but still, no sound via speakers, only subwoofer plays (the full signal).

if i try a speaker-test  -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -t wav
i only hear sound via subwoofer if front left and front right speaker are tested.

plz help me :)

greets

---

### Post by fantasticlinux on 2009-09-30
Hi,

Try to put this in the alsa-base.conf

# Keep snd-pcsp from beeing loaded as first soundcard
options snd-pcsp index=-2
alias snd-card-0 snd-hda-intel
alias sound-slot-0 snd-hda-intel
options snd-hda-intel model=dell-m4-1
options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=1


and reboot?


If not working you need to install update your alsa-driver to version 1.0.21 that got
my hp working, also had the only subwoffer issue.

---

### Post by defensorfedei on 2009-10-15
Wow,  I must say I am in a strange way glad to see someone else with the same problem I am having here in the forum.  I have an msi gx730 with Realtek ALC1200 soundcard, and I am suffering the same problem.  I have tried to manually configure my system to use surround sound, as well as every other "fix" that has been posted.  I will try the latest alsa update and see what happens.  

Please post back here if you find anything new.

Thanks

---

