---
title: "13.04 laptop overheating / suspending"
date: 2013-09-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by eezstreet on 2013-09-25
Hello, I've got a bit of an issue here. I've got a new Toshiba Sattelite (amd64) laptop, and decided to dual-boot Ubuntu, since I don't like W8 much. However, I'm having a problem with it. Whenever my computer is on Ubuntu, shutting the lid doesn't shut it down, despite what I set the settings to in Tweak Tool. In addition, the computer gets VERY hot, and when I open it, it prompts me for a password. When I get past the gate, there's like 20+ windows telling me that it's going to suspend due to inactivity.
I checked the BIOs and there's no booting from USB, keyboard or mouse, literally everything is on minimal.
(If anyone has any tips for reducing laptop power consumption that would be great, since Ubuntu seems to eat power hardcore compared to Win8)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-09-25
Welcome. 

Don't know anything about Tweak Tools (I don't use Unity and maybe that's part of that). Try the default app first, which is Power Manager>Monitor>When laptop lid shut *suspend*. When you close the lid you should be able to hear the machine winding down then going to suspend. Do you and it is only the screen staying on that's the problem?

Try this: Close the lid for about twenty seconds (so it doesn't get too hot) then open it, open a terminal and type or paste this in:

dmesg

... and hit return. You should see some error or other messages at the very end of the output. Post them here because something is stopping suspend by the looks and that might give a clue as to what. 

 Good luck. ;)

PS: AVOID closing the lid EXCEPT to see if one of your fixes has worked, and then not for long. Continued severe overheating can seriously damage the machine.

PPS: Your energy consumption issue could be related to the suspend issue. Once that's fixed check again and see if things are back to normal.

---

### Post by eezstreet on 2013-09-25
Did that, no error. The screen correctly turns off now when the lid is closed and it wakes from suspend when I open it.
Thanks for the assist, I can't believe I completely missed those settings.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-09-25
Great! Glad I could help. Please mark the thread as 'solved' from thread tools, if you're satisfied it is, to help others. Enjoy! ;)

---

