---
title: "11.10 on HP Pavilion G6"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by NessRobert on 2012-05-03
Hi all, i have an HP pavilion G6 that I'm trying to install Ubuntu on, I've read a lot of documentation about how awful it behaves with the hardware however in all of these they do eventually get it working.

I have installed the system from a CD, i did the workaround by selecting nomodeset on the F6 screen before that booted and I installed Ubuntu with no problems after that, it connected to the network during installation fine despite many of the guides saying that would need extra work

So booting the software from its install contains the same problem with the graphics card offering a blank screen, [a guide]("http://admaris.com/wp/blog/2011/07/03/ubuntu-on-hp-g6-laptop-tales-from-the-grave/") suggested pressing e on GRUB and deleting quiet and splash and inserting nomodeset

This works partially, the screen works however the boot is never able to complete and gets stuck on sections such as 'checking battery state' and 'stopping userspace bootsplash' amount others upon each restart with nomodeset inserted.

'stopping automatic crash support generation' always fails too.

Does anyone know whats going on? Thanks in advance

Addition - sometimes after it gets stuck, pressing F1 brings it to some sort of command line login, i can input the username into its field but it won't accept any input for the password

this particular G6's product number is product B2Y47EA#ABU and the model number is g6-1334sa. Its processor is an AMD, as are the graphics (Radeon).

---

### Post by NessRobert on 2012-05-03
Right, never mind. Decided rather than installing 11 and downloading 12 on it i would just make a CD of 12 and try that. Now its working flawlessly

---

