---
title: "12.04: Fujitsu Lifebook T730: Alps touchpad fail on upgrade"
date: 2013-05-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by forced-rhythm on 2013-05-10
Hitting up the update manager, I was told that I would no longer get automatic software updates unless I upgraded, which I did. At the end, I did not "delete obsolete packages" because it wanted to get rid of my majestic collection of legacy kernels.

I start it up, and my laptop touchpad is entirely unresponsive (the pad, and both buttons).

When I go to settings>mouse and touchpad, these are the options:
PS/2 mouse (enabled by default. does nothing.)
Serial Wacom Tablet stylus, eraser, and touch (enabled by default, touch set to "relative" by default for some reason. perfectly functional.)
AlpsPS/2 ALPS GlidePoint (disabled by default. if enabled, will be unresponsive, and if you close and re-open the settings window it will be disabled again. Choosing other options before closing the window doesn't help.)

Googling, I found a lot of ALPS glidepoint driver bug complaints, but all fixes old (I don't feel confident trying them in case I bust my only remaining means of mouse control) or dead (the mythical [psmouse-alps-dkms_0.10_all.deb]("http://people.canonical.com/%7Esforshee/alps-touchpad/psmouse-alps-0.10/psmouse-alps-dkms_0.10_all.deb") rears its head!). Nothing in the software repository that helped. Fujitsu's actual site didn't help, as their drivers 1. only tested on Fedora 2. not actually available on their site for some reason. (That's almost as great a customer service move as blackmailing people into upgrading their software, without warning them of what has been a known problem for several versions! =)

I don't care about multi-touch, finger-scrolling, or any bells and whistles like that. All I'd like is the touchpad with its left button and right button...

I guess all of my practice with keyboard shortcuts is gonna come in handy now! ):P This emoticon is appropriate, as it is doing carpal tunnel exercises.

EDIT: Setting the touchscreen to "absolute" worked until the computer went to sleep. Now it changes itself back to "relative" no matter how many times I change it back - even if I leave the options window open...

---

### Post by forced-rhythm on 2013-05-11
Upon investigation, it's not the driver that's the problem - the mouse works fine on the login screen. The problem happens when I log in, that is, the X input server recognizes my mouse, and then rejects it when the window manager starts, I guess? XFCE, why??

Also, I guess this should me moved to Desktop Environments (since it's not a problem with hardware, or drivers for hardware)

EDIT: I had set GNOME services to start on log-in, and GNOME wasn't playing  nice with XFWM4. Somehow. Turning off GNOME services and re-logging in restores my mouse. I had to actually switch to the (remarkably less usable than xfce) Lubuntu window manager for hours to figure this out. Somewhere in this process, my extremely large and important Firefox session was eaten. However, I did somehow (?) activate two-finger scrolling on the touchpad in question, which is okay in my book.

---

