---
title: "2.5Tb external not seen under Linux"
date: 2011-08-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ghost005 on 2011-08-28
Hello, I have looked over Google and in the forums but it seems that nobody really had my Problem yet!
I m running Ubuntu 11.04 with even the newest kernel update (...38-11( today) (i know there is 39-1 but i think it is still experimental) with dual boot to win 7 x64! on a MSI GX720
However my Problem is a bit weird! i bough a new Sata 300HD with 2,5Tb for an external USB2,0 controller which unfortunately runs on low LBA (i couldn t get it formated under windows 7 x64 over the USB) went to a friend and connected it to his win7 desk-pc over the Sata PCI controller and got it formated as a GPT Drive (coz it is over 2 TB and MBR would only allow 2 Tb) then i unplugged it and can under windows 7 now even use it as an external over my USb controller coz Data transfer and the formation is normally shown after the first formating! But under Linux the External is still not mounted and under disk utility only shown as a 300Gb HD.:confused: That is the problem which occours due to the low LBA of my USB controller ( was the problem before the first formating under Win7 and Linux)
The thing i don t understand is why win7 is now able to see the Fomatted drive and acces it fully while Linux can t even see the full Size nor mount it!:confused:
Any idea what to do to get a 2,5TB External GPT HD running on Linux 11.04?

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-08-28
Your description is a bit hard to follow, but I *think* you're saying the following:


[list]
[*]You bought a 2.5 TB hard disk.
[*]You put it in an external USB enclosure.
[*]You tried to partition it under Windows 7 and failed.
[*]You removed the disk from its USB enclosure, connected it to an ATA port on a computer, and partitioned it under Windows 7.
[*]You put the disk back into its USB enclosure.
[*]You can now use the disk under Windows but not under Linux, which sees the disk as 300 GB in size.
[/list]


If so, my suspicion is that your USB enclosure has a 32-bit limit on its sector addresses. Given a 512-byte sector size, this works out to a 2 TiB (2 x 2^40 byte, or about 2200 GB) limit. Given a 2.5 TB (2500 GB) disk, this makes for a difference of about 300 GB, which is the size of the disk you're seeing reported. This is one possible result of going over such a limit -- the system reaches its limit and starts counting again from 0, like driving a car for more miles than its odometer was designed to measure.

If I'm right, the chances are the disk's working in Windows is a dangerous half-truth; Windows may be reading the start of the partition table and filesystem data structures, and giving you access to the first 2 TiB of the disk, but not the final ~300 GB of the disk. Sooner or later, it'll want to store data there, which will result in data being written elsewhere on the disk, possibly overwriting other data or filesystem data structures. That will get nasty to fix, and you may lose data irrevocably.

My advice is to shop for a new USB enclosure, but be sure you get one that supports disks over 2 TiB in size. Alternatively, you could use an eSATA enclosure, if your computer supports eSATA. Before you buy a new enclosure, though, you might want to try to test my hypothesis about what's happened by talking to the manufacturer of your current enclosure or by running tools that return information on the size of the disk. Linux partitioning tools, such as parted, GParted, and gdisk, generally provide such information. If they report the disk size as ~300 GB (or 2 TiB), then that supports my hypothesis. You can check this in Windows, too, but I'm less familiar with Windows tools (except for my gdisk, which is available for both Linux and Windows).

One final note: Units can get confusing when describing disk sizes. Technically, [SI units](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Si_prefix) (kB, MB, GB, TB, etc.) refer to power-of-10 values (10^3, 10^6, 10^9 10^12, etc.), whereas [ur=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_1541-2002]IEEE-1541[/url] units (KiB, MiB, GiB, TiB, etc.) refer to power-of-2 values (2^10, 2^20, 2^30, 2^40, etc.). Also, "b" means "bit" whereas "B" means "byte" (8 bits). Disk manufacturers generally use SI units to measure disk sizes, but IEEE-1541 units are a more natural fit for many computer measurements. The 32-bit disk size limit of 2 TiB is an example, which is why your 2.5 TB disk has 300 GB above the 2 TiB mark -- 2.5 TB is about 2.27 TiB, and 0.27 TiB is 0.30 TB, or 300 GB.

---

### Post by ghost005 on 2011-08-28
First of all your short discription ist right! 
I already read that it was only shown 2 TiB which i wanted to say that my controller is on low LBA ;-)
I was a bit scared with your Hypothesis that it might write data only on the first 2TiB and will eventually overwrite my data :shock: need to check that for now!
I used Gdisk now : thats pretty much everything that came out after i said /dev/sdc and the command: i 

"Caution: invalid backup GPT header, but valid main header; regenerating
backup header from main header.

Warning! One or more CRCs don't match. You should repair the disk!

Partition table scan:
  MBR: protective
  BSD: not present
  APM: not present
  GPT: damaged

****************************************************************************
Caution: Found protective or hybrid MBR and corrupt GPT. Using GPT, but disk
verification and recovery are STRONGLY recommended.
****************************************************************************

Warning! Secondary partition table overlaps the last partition by
4294965745 blocks!
You will need to delete this partition or resize it in another utility.

Partition number (1-2): 1
Partition GUID code: E3C9E316-0B5C-4DB8-817D-F92DF00215AE (Microsoft reserved)
Partition unique GUID: 8E7C14C6-0262-496B-91B9-8EC2E36BFF09
First sector: 34 (at 17.0 KiB)
Last sector: 262177 (at 128.0 MiB)
Partition size: 262144 sectors (128.0 MiB)
Attribute flags: 0000000000000000
Partition name: Microsoft reserved partition


Partition number (1-2): 2
Partition GUID code: EBD0A0A2-B9E5-4433-87C0-68B6B72699C7 (Linux/Windows data)
Partition unique GUID: C209F0C5-E028-4A70-A00F-EC5FBB642FFB
First sector: 264192 (at 129.0 MiB)
Last sector: 4883779583 (at 2.3 TiB)
Partition size: 4883515392 sectors (2.3 TiB)
Attribute flags: 0000000000000000
Partition name: Basic data partition"

But here it says 2,3 TiB? which would be the size of the 2,27 which the HD rly is 
:-/
I m confuesed any ideas? for now i will stop puting data on it and will check if data on there is all still accessible hopefully not all my series are gone which were on there first which are the only things i don t have a backup from! XD
Thanks for helping

EDIT: I had a good look checking probably 30 different episodes and like 20 different random films which i put on on different times and! and windows diskmanager and CHKDSK both show the HD as 234528MB which would be ~2.5TB or 2.27TiB and there is already 550Gb in Data on there
So the problem doesn t yet occour or it is fine any idea how i can find it out? 
Anybody got Knowledge of Win7 and Ubuntu?
And does a eSata always supports 2,27TiB?

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-08-29
My hunch at this point is that the OS is detecting the disk's size correctly (at least, when using certain methods) but that attempts to access from beyond the 2TiB mark are in fact "wrapping around" as I described. This would explain the "GPT: damaged" diagnosis from gdisk -- it will report this if the backup GPT data (stored at the very end of the disk) are missing or damaged. (gdisk will give the same diagnosis under other circumstances, though, so this observation doesn't completely confirm my hypothesis; it's just consistent with it.) If I'm right, the solution I offered earlier -- to replace the USB enclosure -- remains the best (and perhaps the only) option to fix the problem.

---

### Post by ghost005 on 2011-08-30
And eSata enclousures always are compatible with 64bit LBA?

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-08-30
> **ghost005 said:**
> And eSata enclousures always are compatible with 64bit LBA?

I'm afraid I don't know for sure, although my guess would be that they are.

One more idea: It could be that the incompatibility is somewhere in the driver stack for either Linux or Windows. If so, upgrading drivers might fix the problem. You'd need to figure out which OS has the problem, though. Perhaps you could run the Windows version of gdisk and see what is reports the drive size to be, and whether it shows the "GPT: damaged" report. If gdisk on one platform reports a problem and on the other it doesn't, then that strongly suggests a driver issue, since aside from platform-specific system calls, the Linux and Windows versions of gdisk are identical at the source code level, and of course they're using the same hardware.

---

### Post by ghost005 on 2011-08-30
Couldn t find gdsik but used another Disk Partition manager and that showed the HD as only 280 Gb :-( **** so i really have to get a new Enclousure! already found one which supports 48 bit LBA over Usb 2.0 and esata at least i ll have more speed now while moving files!

---

