---
title: "8.10 on HP dv6810us HELP!!!"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by maxovride on 2008-11-07
HP dv6810us
AMD turion64 X2 2.0 ghz
3 gigs ddr2 ram
250 gig samsung sata
nvidia 7150m
atheros 5007eg wireless
blutooth

i have an hp dv6810us and a gateway laptop (not sure of model and its at my office).  8.10 works just fine on the gateway, everything worked "right out of the box" but i can not get it to work on my HP.
n
First i tried to install from live cd and it would freeze.  so i tried from a update from 8.04 through the update manager everything installed and i rebooted and it wouldnt boot. it would just sit at the ubuntu screen with teh scroller bar going back and forth. i tried hitting the esc button to see if it would let me see what was going on in the backround but nothing hapened after a few more times it it went to a black screen and then i started getting read only errors.  i tried rebooting a few times but with now luck.  i redownloaded 8.10 again this time both live and alternative in both 32bit and 64bit.

after reburning i tested each disk for errors and nothing was detected. non of the disks would boot to the installer. i either get a usb error or i get a io error on dev/sg0.  ive tried passing nousb, acpi=off, noapic. after that i got something about pnp bios and it told me to pass pnpbios=off i beileve something like that so i tried that and still would not load into the installer. i have also tried turning off the wireless/bluetooth with the hardware switch of the front. no luck

i have had 8.04 running on this for a long time, right now i am using the 64bit version of 8.04 on my HP.  the only issue i have had with this is the wireless (atheros 5007eg) didnt work untill either using madwifi patched drivers or using the ndiswrapper driver.  other then that everthing works great


any help would be great :)

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-11-07
Have you tried booting in safe graphics mode? I'm using a very similarly equioed hp laptop right now. I've have 8.04 on it but 7.10 ran the best. installing the widows dirvers for the ar5007eg card is pretty easy through ndiswrapper-there are guides here at the forums. The 64 bit version of 8.10 will boot on my machine but it does behave strangely-I just have booted it from the live cd. 
For what it's worth (lots of flames I suspect) Mepis does boot and install fairly with that hardware.

---

### Post by WKnew on 2008-11-09
Not a solution, but a work around perhaps. I have the same laptop maxovride, I find that holding down the ctrl key when boot hangs gets it through the boot.

---

### Post by walkerk on 2008-11-10
Hmm. I did a clean install today an I have the same issue. HP dv6815nr. I'm exploring solutions.. so far i am unsuccessful.

---

### Post by gkrules on 2008-11-12
This problem seems to be only with HP. [notebooks?]
Does anyone else have it that is not with an HP computer?
Is it occuring on any HP desktops?

---

### Post by dinglebat on 2008-11-13
I'm having the same issue on a Dell.

---

### Post by superhack123 on 2008-11-16
I've got the problem too, and only after updating to 8.10 (AMD 64). I am running a compaq 6715b with an AMD Turion 64 x2 mobile processor. The only reason I am concerned about this is because it is slowing down my system (even simple things like typing this).

---

