---
title: "10.04 64bit problem with usb 3.0"
date: 2012-04-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by yardbird2012 on 2012-04-04
i just bought a i5 2500k+AsRock extreme 3 gen 3 motherboard+patriot ddr3 1333 8gb, and my system is 10.04 64bit. when i am trying to plug a usb 2.0 flash drive in usb 3.0 port, the system is dead, i have to reset. my kernel is 2.6.32-40-generic-pae.

since i don't have windows system, i can not test the port in windows. and the motherboard is brand new, little bit worry it is defect one on usb 3.0. so any suggestion? thanks a lot.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2012-04-04
I suggest that you download (maybe using another computer) the iso files of Ubuntu 11.10 and 12.04 beta. I think these new versions have a better chance to co-operate with your new hardware. Make boot CD or USB drives and test running live sessions without installing.

---

### Post by yardbird2012 on 2012-04-04
thanks, but i don't like ubuntu unity this kind of stuff. my computer is mainly used for scientific computation, just want to keep most simple interface, and as stable as it can.


> **sudodus said:**
> I suggest that you download (maybe using another computer) the iso files of Ubuntu 11.10 and 12.04 beta. I think these new versions have a better chance to co-operate with your new hardware. Make boot CD or USB drives and test running live sessions without installing.

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2012-04-04
> **yardbird2012 said:**
> thanks, but i don't like ubuntu unity this kind of stuff. my computer is mainly used for scientific computation, just want to keep most simple interface, and as stable as it can.
You could try Xubuntu or Lubuntu, which are both lightweight and simple.

---

### Post by yardbird2012 on 2012-04-04
thanks, i will try it next time when i reinstall system.

> **LinuxFan999 said:**
> You could try Xubuntu or Lubuntu, which are both lightweight and simple.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2012-04-04
It doesn't make sense that a 64-bit system would have 2.6.32-40-generic-pae as the kernel.

Google says that kernel should have USB 3.0 support, but new hardware with old software is not a healthy combination. Go with Ubutnu 12.04, then install gnome-panel, and select it (just once) at logon. That eliminates Unity.

---

