---
title: "8.04 Installation on Dell Inspiron 9100"
date: 2008-12-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by masinger53 on 2008-12-12
Kudos to Ubuntu devs!  Just a note that I completed the Xubuntu 8.04 LiveCD install to a Dell Inspiron 9100 and so far most hardware "just works" -- touchpad, touchstick, wireless, etc., even the suspend/hibernate -- although I won't be using the modem so I can't confirm that bit. 

I chose LTS as it's for my mom. =)  The Xubuntu flavor was to maximize resources and to keep it simple, as she complained of "too much technology for me" when my son showed her his Vista lappy.

The multimedia required some tweaking, but I used this quide -- [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683) -- and was able to get "automagic" playback upon insertion of music and video disks.  Also, I had to futz with connecting to my home wifi as the netmanager app resisted enabling at first, but after a few tries and a reboot, it fixed itself and now works fine.

I'm waiting for a separate web cam to arrive, so I'll see how that goes.  The only other issue so far is that I get bogus mount/umount error boxes, even though the mount/umount is successful, i.e., the disk plays or ejects properly.

As the designated family tech support person, Ubuntu wins my vote hands-down for lowest number of calls for help! :D (My brother's Ubuntu desktop has been going for over a year with no calls; however, my sister calls frequently for help with her XP system now that her Dell support has run out.)

Mom's Laptop:  Intel 3.0Ghz P4/HT, 1Gb RAM, 60Gb HDD, CD/DVD RW combo, Dell 1350 wireless (Broadcom), ATI Mobility Radeon 9700 64Mb

---

