---
title: "9.04 laptop brightness shortcut on Toughbook"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jeebustrain on 2009-04-28
My Panasonic Toughbook CF-74 has been quite a project since I made the full time switch to Linux. I'm primarily a desktop guy (running OpenSUSE 11.1 x64), so I've been testing out various Distros on my laptop, just trying to see what makes all the hardware work well with relatively little effort. Ubuntu 8.10 was pretty good, though I had wireless issues, along with not being able to properly calibrate the touchscreen. I've gone through about 8 other Distros as well, just experimenting to see what worked and what didn't.

Well that all changed with Jaunty Jackelope. I installed it last week and have been absolutely in love with it. EVERYTHING worked perfectly out of the box, audio, wireless, touchscreen (the calibration app fixed that), and even my screen brightness. I guess there's finally an ACPI module that works with my hardware included out of the box. The brightness slider applet works perfectly.

Now, I'm in the process of setting up my keyboard shortcuts using the applet. My Fn key does not work, so I've just been using the Win key instead. The only problem I'm having now is that there is no listing for brightness shortcuts in the list of defaults. Is there a dimmer applet that I can call via CLI to step through the brightness? I did some searching and found SmartDimmer, but that appears to be Nvidia only (this has Intel graphics). I also know there's another command I can use to set the brightness via a numeric value, but I'd like something that I can just go up/down when I want.

It's a small thing, but it's really the final piece to giving this laptop 100% of the functionality (short of the winmodem, but who uses that?) that I had under XP.

---

### Post by acidd_uk on 2009-05-26
Where did you find/get the calibration app? I have a CF19 Mk3 and touchscreen calibration is causing me a headache...

---

### Post by PatrickVogeli on 2009-05-26
yeah, I think you could use xbacklight together with xbindconfig to adjust like you want!

---

### Post by emacspy on 2009-05-27
Im in the same boat with the same laptop here acidd let me know if anything turns up please.

---

