---
title: "9.10 is confused by my e-sata or other third device"
date: 2009-11-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by drbin on 2009-11-23
Hope somebody knows; was working great till the upgrade.
Toshiba Satellite A300-20C with 4G mem (for my virtualboxes)

a. the disk inside (sda) the laptop is a &#931;vista that I kept for prof. reasons used as data storage
b. always boot from usb (sdc) with any current official ubuntu release (no patches allowed)
c. third external disk (sdb) with e-sata connector for really extra storage (multimedia + vdi)

all my entries are with UUIDs so there is no conflict at fstab or someplace else ?!

never had trouble, sda sdb sdc were always in place. after the upgrade to 9.10 the disk boots and freezes. after a while it loses the splash printing error about ext3-fs not beeing able to read from device - which device is not clear. even if esata is turned off the message persists. Only if it is physically disconnected -even Live- the boot proceeds and the system runs normal. Using the external drive as usb (not esata) and turning it on after boot, there is no problem. Just now, daring me, I plugged the esata on the system, turned on the disk and is loaded fine (as sdc though, not a problem with that).

is there something missing at the depths of the new kernel? is something that 9.10 is responsible. It destroyed my compiz (that worked great on 9.04). Thats not important. Having my esata disk connected is important.

Please respond if you have an idea or a solution.

--update a few months later: having a production machine boot from usb, still gets stuck. creating a usb disk for installing ubuntu works fine. Up to 9.04 I was booting perfectly my pc from usb. Tried it with 10.04, same thing. Sometimes it boots, sometime it gets stuck. Cannot add ¨profile¨ to kernel options when booting from usb, gets stuck anyway. Only when the disk is internal the system boots.

---

