---
title: "nVidia Screen Shifting Problem"
date: 2010-08-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Treth on 2010-08-10
Ok, so, here's an interesting problem.

I have a 64-bit machine set up with an nVidia graphics card, set to dual-head with a secondary output to my TV for multimedia.

Now, the correct resolution for the display is 1680x1050.  This is listed as one of the available resolutions in the nVidia control panel.  However, when I set this resolution for the display, the whole display is shifted about 400px to the left.

This means that the Ubuntu Menu is just out of sight on the side of the display, and there's a wide black bar down the right-hand side.  A handful of other resolutions do this as well.  1680x1050 worked properly for a brief period of time, but now I can't seem to coerce it into behaving for the life of me!

I've tried manually setting the modeline in the xorg.conf file in order to specify the display properties, after disabling automatic resolution selection via EDID, but in that case I can only get 'unsupported output' from the monitor.  I've tried both versions of the driver listed in the hardware manager, but to no avail.

Anybody have any ideas?

Here's some info about the machine:

Card ID:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G94 [GeForce 9600 GT] (rev a1)

nVidia Driver Version:  173

xorg.conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Fri Apr  9 11:51:21 UTC 2010

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Wed Nov 11 06:45:14 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
        # Removed Option "Xinerama" "1"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Disable        "XVideo"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

        # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option      "XkbLayout" "dvorak"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DFP-0"
    HorizSync       26.0 - 68.0
    VertRefresh     23.0 - 61.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoRenderExtension" "False"
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"
    Option         "NoFlip" "False"
    Option         "AllowDDCCI" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "DisableGLXRootClipping" "False"
    Option         "DamageEvents" "True"
    Option         "DynamicTwinView" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1600x1200 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection




Lastly, though less importantly, the XVideo extension is broken for the machine.  I've reset my media players, so it's not a big deal.  But Skype uses Xv if available, and cannot be configured not to.  I've tried a few of the workarounds I've seen online but none of them can make it work properly.  I've tried disabling XVideo in my xorg.conf, but it gets loaded anyway.  I'm assuming this is due to a module dependency, but I don't know how I would go about fixing this.  If anybody has any info on that issue as well, it'd be very helpful.

---

