---
title: "(8.10) No sound after idle?"
date: 2009-04-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ashlayne on 2009-04-12
Man, I'm completely confused! When I first boot up my computer, the ALSA drivers work just fine. But if I leave it idle, say, overnight while I'm uploading or downloading something, I usually mute the speakers so that my IRC client doesn't drive me or my fiance nuts while we're trying to sleep. But when I unmute the speakers in the morning, I have no sound!

I opened the Sound tool in Preferences, and when I tried to test through there, I got this:

> audiotestsrc wave=sine freq=512 ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink: Could not open audio device for playback. Device is being used by another application.

I consider myself still somewhat new to Ubuntu (have been on it since June/July '08 or so), but when I was on Hardy still I never had this problem. (I just had an initial problem getting sound to work at all, but that got fixed by the wonderful help here inside a week! ^_^) I just upgraded to Intrepid last week, and this problem has been occurring since I upgraded.

[http://shopper.cnet.com/computer-systems/compaq-presario-f767nr-turion/4014-3121_9-32991509.html](http://shopper.cnet.com/computer-systems/compaq-presario-f767nr-turion/4014-3121_9-32991509.html) -- My computer's hardware profile

---

### Post by ashlayne on 2009-04-18
Hate to bump this thread when there's been no replies, but I just saw the problem happen... while I was using my computer, this time. >.< I had sound, because I was watching stuff on YouTube, and then I went to another video and *poof* no sound. I checked several videos, including one that had sound on my fiance's computer... nothing. Checked Prefs > Sound, same error as above.

Anyone have any clues?

---

### Post by jmorthland on 2009-04-18
Bump,
Have the same issue with my Laptop Acer Aspire with the Alsa drivers and no other issues. Intel dual core.

---

### Post by fleton on 2009-04-18
Do you currently have pulseaudio enabled? It is known to be buggy so you might just want to ```
killall pulseaudio
``` in the terminal, then change your audio settings with ```
alsamixer
```

I might be wrong but it would not hurt to try.

---

### Post by ashlayne on 2009-04-19
Only thing that did was (duh) kill pulseaudio, which I don't think any of my runs through anyway.

Now it gets stranger. I used to have sound in Firefox 3.0.8, and now I don't. Links for Youtube videos have been tested on my fiance's computer (which is running Hardy) for sound, then sent to me via IM and tested. Sound on his, not on mine. To make sure it isn't just Youtube,. I went to another site and tested for sound... nada. And I'm still occasionally having the problems mentioned above.

Someone in a chat I frequent who is actually beta-ing Jaunty suggested downloading drivers for my sound card, but from what I can tell I already have them. Otherwise, wouldn't I have no sound at all? o.O

~~Ashe

---

