---
title: "[21.04]  does the Nvidia GeForce 6200 still work with the Proprietary driver ?"
date: 2021-07-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by troutrou on 2021-07-25
Hi there,


Just upgraded from (X)Ubuntu 16.04 to (X)Ubuntu 21.04 last week, so a 5 year jump.

Computer is old, I built it in 2006 or 2008 can never remember. 
Graphics card is an Nvidia Geforce 6200 (but the kernel / lspci command detects it as a " 7200 GS / 7300 SE ", PCI bus.
Always used the proprietary Nvidia driver since day one because the "nouveau" free driver never cut the mustard.

Well upon upgrading bingo, it installed the Nouveau  driver again, and  the PC runs like shite now, unusable, needs to be addressed urgently... so I went to the utility that handles proprietary drivers, to select the Nvidia driver and... it's NOT listed ?!
Ubuntu does not give me the option to install the Nvidia driver ?!  

Searched a bit, seems like the current Nvidia driver "may" not support the 6200 anymore, or may pretend it does but does not really in practice, or poorly...because the 6200 is too old.

So since I don't want to take the risk of bricking my system (don't have a backup PC in case things go wrong), I thought I would ask you all :


- [SIZE=3]Does anyone have a 6200/7200GS/7300SE  running on 21.04 , with the proprietary Nvidia driver, with perfectly normal/good 2D and 3D performance ?[/SIZE]


If so I would give the Nvidia driver a try,  if not I will run away and buy a used card that's newer enough to be still supported, yet old enough to still be compatible with my computer (PCI bus)


Thanks in advance for your feedback ! :o

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-07-26
> **troutrou said:**
>  I went to the utility that handles proprietary drivers, to select the Nvidia driver and... it's NOT listed ?!
Ubuntu does not give me the option to install the Nvidia driver ?!  
The last branch that supported that GPU was 304, which rolled up other older Legacy branches. It was last updated in 2017. That branch got dropped from the Ubuntu repositories for the 18.04 release, I think. The card is nearly two decades old (released in 2004). Time to put it out of its misery.

Also, a Raspberry Pi will be faster and use way less electricity than the rest of your 15 year old machine.

---

### Post by troutrou on 2021-07-26
Are you for real ?!  Nope, most likely some kind of bot programmed to troll...

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2021-07-26
+1
The reality is, that card is too old. GeForce 9xxx should be supported by the 340 driver in 20.04, but has also been dropped from later releases.

---

