---
title: "10.04 - Compaq Presario 2500 series disk limit?"
date: 2011-02-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by wep940 on 2011-02-16
I just put a 160gb Samsung ATA100 drive in my Compaq Presario 2586US notebook.   I built the laptop up from parts from 2 cheap non-working laptops.  I installed Windows XP first, which outside of seeming like everything is slow, worked ok and Windows showed the drive as the 160gb.  Then I installed Ubuntu for dual-boot and ran into "error: out of disk" followed by "grub rescue>".  Whenever I tried to list the contents of one of the folders on the Ubuntu data partition it came up with the same error.  
 
After hunting around for quite a while I found out that the largest disk the notebook can support is 137gb.  There is no newer BIOS for the laptop either.
 
So, I tried creating a partition at the end of the disk of 30gb just to basically take up the non-addressable space, then shrunk Windows again reinstalled Ubuntu for dual-boot.  This time it worked, but everything seems really slow.  Checking the hard disk in the BIOS again, I noticed that it says DMA5 for the drive, but says the transfer rate is only DMA2 and it won't let me tab to that field to change it.  Looking around some more, I found mention that some BIOS will force the drive to low rates when it thinks there is an error.
 
So, I'm hoping somebody can help me with the following, so I don't waste any more money:
 
(1)  Exactly what is the limit for disk size in the Compaq Presario 2500 series?
 
(2)  If I get a drive within those limits, will it run at full speed or will I still be stuck at
      DMA2?
 
It's kinda sad when you can run ubuntu faster off the LiveCD than off the hard disk.  I know it's not ubuntu's fault - it's my hardware.
 
Thank you in advance!

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2011-02-18
do laptop hdd's mount the same ?  i have a 120G hdd out of a hp6000, don't have any use for it.  got anything to trade ?

---

