---
title: "10.10 - Nothing restored after hibernation / Suspension freezes"
date: 2010-11-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dentex on 2010-11-04
Hi to everyone.
I'm back on Ubuntu with this 10.10 release (that I LOVE), but I have a problem regarding **hibernation** and **suspension**.

**(1)** I restored the availability of the hibernation editing /etc/fstab and adding the proper string using the UUID to identify the SWAP partition. 
Then I used **mkswap **and **swapon **commands to enable it.
I also edited /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume to have the right UUID for the swap partition.
But when a hit "hibernation" after some seconds appears the error: ```
Failed to find memory space for buffer <some_string> eviction
``` plus some other info I'm not able to report (they are on screen for a few seconds); After power-on the system is actually rebooted, so it doesn't restore anything;

**(2)** When I hit "suspension", the system seems to be actually suspended but, when I try to restore it, it freezes into a black screen where it's not possible to do anything (neither going to another console).

Any idea?

---------------------

PS: INFO

Ubuntu 10.10 is installed on a Laptop machine:
ASUS L5850C
P-IV 2.8 MHz processor
2 GB RAM
Dual boot (burg bootloader) with WinXP on a 100 GB HD with 6 partitions:
```
Dispositivo Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1        2089    16779232+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2   *        2089        3680    12777472   83  Linux
/dev/sda3            3680       12162    68127762+   f  W95 Esteso (LBA)
/dev/sda5            3680        4202     4194296   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6            4202        4724     4193280    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda7            4725       12162    59739942+   c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
```kernel: 2.6.35-22-generic

---------------------

Please let me know if some more information is needed.

thanks,
Samuele.

---

### Post by dentex on 2010-11-05
[wrong forum section?]

---

### Post by dr_duck on 2010-11-05
When my lappy resumes from suspend, I get that same line (unable to find space... eviction) in the terminal just before the gui comes back up with the unlock screen password.  It does work fine though, so perhaps it is something else other than that message?

In my experience, its usually graphics drivers.  fglrx was bad for this.  What card/driver do you have?  Oh, and how big is your swap?

---

### Post by dentex on 2010-11-05
hey, really thanks. So now could be something else.

the GPU is an ATI mobility radeon 9000; 
the driver should be the xf86-video-ati driver (fglrx it's not installed);
swap partition is 4 GB.

---

### Post by grapedaddy on 2010-11-05
This is a longshot but this bug on 10.04 may be related to yours because you have the same GPU.

 Dell Latitude D600 hangs on wakeup from suspend
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/559163](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/559163)


Someone on launchpad suggested setting a BIOS boot password to allow time 
for the display to initialize before the resume started. That worked for me.

---

### Post by dentex on 2010-11-06
Thanks!
I Tried, but after suspension it doesn't request the password... Again it freezes.

---

