---
title: "9.04 ati xpress 200m"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ram4nd on 2009-04-28
My video card is really slow since moving to 9.04. I have tried many possible solutions available around net. Just made me reinstall ubuntu 3 times. So I thought that maybe I can fix that problem with your help. So where should I start, and what you need to know about my laptop.

---

### Post by Bobber76 on 2009-04-28
I have the same chipset, and believe me, there's no solution. We must use the opensource driver, what is a crap for this chipset at the moment... AMD has dropped support for this chipset, so maybe we'll get a legacy driver in some months... or not... I hope, the opensource driver will be better.

---

### Post by sergks on 2009-04-28
There is a regression for your card in Mesa 7.4:
[http://www.phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?t=16554]("http://www.phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?t=16554")

Hope that the developers will solve this problem soon.

---

### Post by ram4nd on 2009-04-28
I have tried that but it didn't change anything at all.

---

### Post by sergks on 2009-04-29
To compile Mesa, you have to install additional packages in Synaptic. If you need xt, search for 'xt' and install libxt-dev and so on.

I tried Mesa from the radeon-rewrite branch. It works fine with my 200M, but the performance is still not great.

---

### Post by ram4nd on 2009-04-29
I hope someone will find a solution for this thing, cause otherwise I have to go back on windows. 1 good thing about windows is that all your hardware works as is should.

---

### Post by Bobber76 on 2009-04-29
It would be cool a steep-by-step guide for this... I don't know, how to do that patch...

---

### Post by ram4nd on 2009-04-30
> **Bobber76 said:**
> It would be cool a steep-by-step guide for this... I don't know, how to do that patch...

[http://ohioloco.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7113949&postcount=19](http://ohioloco.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7113949&postcount=19)

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2009-04-30
I'm just curious, what are you noticing? I also have an Xpress 200m, but I really haven't noticed anything. Maybe I just haven't been paying close attention or I'm not doing anything that really requires it.

---

### Post by Bobber76 on 2009-04-30
Ok, i did the patch manually, and rebuild mesa. Now i have good fps, close to fglrx in 8.10, but have some lockups in opengl...

---

### Post by ram4nd on 2009-04-30
What do I have to do after, replacing the file and how?

---

### Post by ram4nd on 2009-05-02
Bumb, i really need answer for this one.

---

### Post by ram4nd on 2009-05-05
Does editing help or I have to bump it?

---

### Post by chrcoe on 2009-05-05
I really wanted to upgrade to kubuntu 9.04 but then I went to do it and it actually warned me that fglrx was not available for 9.04

That made me think twice, my current kubuntu is running flawlessly, so I decided not to upgrade, I will be checking back on this post to try and see if any drivers have been updated for 9.04

"If it ain't broke, don't fix it" I guess, really bummed me out :(

---

