---
title: "References Used To - Install two nVidia GT 9800 cards with SLI bridge on ubuntu-9.04"
date: 2009-09-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by blogmaniak on 2009-09-13
Hope this helps everyone who is trying to install this variant of GC configuration, but I am pretty certain that this setup will work for most dual nVidia card configurations. :)

Especially, if you installed fresh copy of ubuntu, then activated nvidia recommended driver and then after reboot the system keeps going to command prompt instead of graphical desktop.
[B]
First Install Step:
Goto [/B]Hardware Drivers under Administration, and activate the recommended nVidia driver
This will go through multiple steps, to download/install all required/dependent libraries
Some instances might have issues locating all the files, but please monitor for errors during install.

**Secondly, Modify your xorg.conf file: (Required)**
I executed all steps, to the tee as mentioned in **[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1130157.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1130157.html)**
This step will help ubuntu to recognize the two cards and boot.
This is also the resolution to your booting directly to command prompt, instead of graphical interface after install/activating nVidia recommended driver.

**My Working xorg.conf file:**
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device            "nVidia GT 9800 1"    
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option "SLI" "SFR"
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth 24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "nvidia GT 9800 1"
    Boardname "nv"
    Busid "PCI:3:0:0"    
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Screen 0              
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "nvidia GT 9800 2"
    Boardname "nv"
    Busid "PCI:4:0:0"
    Driver "nvidia"
    Screen 0
EndSection

---

