---
title: "10.04 aspire one touchpad scrolling doesn't work"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by JavaNut13 on 2010-05-04
I have recently upgraded to Ubuntu 10.04, on my Acer Aspire One (1.6Ghz, 1GB, 250GB, 10.1", blue) not the netbook edition, but the full edition.

It all works fine, apart from the touchpads 'edge-scroll' - which simply doesn't work. If I can get this or the two-finger scroll working, I'll be happy. I just don't like having to use the scrollbars all the time.

PS. I had 9.10 (netbook edition) installed, and it worked fine....

Cheers,
Will

---

### Post by Jotomicron on 2010-05-04
I have a similar problem. Two finger scrolling worked on 9.10, but now it is disabled in the Mouse properties dialog (grayed out, unselectable). On the other hand, edge-scrolling does work.

I have an Acer too, but model is Timeline 4810.

---

### Post by DomesDKG on 2010-05-04
You might try getting the newer version of gpoiting.  For some reason Lucid only has 1.3.2, but you can install the debian version of 1.5.1 and it works magic.  Fixed my touch pad problems on my Thinkpad.

You can get the download files for 1.5.1 from here:
[http://packages.debian.org/sid/libgpds0](http://packages.debian.org/sid/libgpds0)
[http://packages.debian.org/sid/gpoin...evice-settings](http://packages.debian.org/sid/gpoin...evice-settings)
I'm not sure if you need this third one, but I installed it.
[http://packages.debian.org/sid/libgpds-dbg](http://packages.debian.org/sid/libgpds-dbg)
Afterwards you can configure it in system>preferences>pointing devices.

---

### Post by JavaNut13 on 2010-05-05
I have installed the packages you recommended.. the 2nd one could not be found on the Debian website.. So I found a different one: gpointing-device-settings_1.5.1-2_i386.deb.

But still no joy.

I tried disabling tapping etc.. But they do not disable - It obviously has no control over the settings :(

---

### Post by JavaNut13 on 2010-05-11
Its still not working....

Guys..?

And ideas??

---

### Post by farbird on 2010-05-11
go to terminal
```

sudo rmmod psmouse
sudo modprobe psmouse proto=imps

```

if proto=imps doesnt work, try proto=exps

try the touchpad again for scrolling..

if it works, u need to make it permanent.
```

sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/options

```

enter these lines in the nano editor

```

options psmouse proto=imps

```

then press CTRL-X and press Y.

[credits here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9207727&postcount=2)

reboot PC.

---

### Post by JavaNut13 on 2010-05-11
Cool! :)

Its is working now, but I haven't used it in so long, I'll have to get back into the habit!

Cheers,
Will

---

### Post by almikul on 2010-05-22
Thanks, farbird! It works perfect now :)

---

### Post by russ2001 on 2010-06-03
Fixed my HP, thanks

---

### Post by prasanth.sugathan on 2010-07-28
Thanks farbird.
Fixed the issue I had with my Acer AspireOne Netbook.

---

### Post by jackan on 2010-07-29
Nice!
Fixed my HP dm3

Thank you!

---

### Post by tibbyyo on 2010-08-24
Fix did not work for my Inspiron 17R. The touchpad works, but the scrolling does not work. (using Ubuntu 10.04 32-bit)

Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by ario on 2010-10-15
Thanks a lot and god bless you man!
It works like a charm with Acer ASPIRE 5536.
Since I don't want to use windows, I totally forgot the use of my scroll-pad since I bought this laptop!

---

### Post by santiagorf on 2010-10-31
thanks. the touchpad is working better in my acer aspire one!!!

---

### Post by luckylucky on 2010-11-07
> **farbird said:**
> go to terminal
```

sudo rmmod psmouse
sudo modprobe psmouse proto=imps

```

if proto=imps doesnt work, try proto=exps

try the touchpad again for scrolling..

if it works, u need to make it permanent.
```

sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/options

```

enter these lines in the nano editor

```

options psmouse proto=imps

```

then press CTRL-X and press Y.

[credits here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9207727&postcount=2)

reboot PC.



Thank you farbird, your tip worked for my samsung n145 netbook using ubuntu 10.10 (desktop edition)

---

### Post by onaridge on 2010-11-21
anyone got this working in 10.10 for HP DM3?  I tried the terminal commands but no dice in 10.10.

---

### Post by ironfroggy on 2010-12-10
I can confirm this issue is still present in 10.10
Also that the fix works on an Acer Aspire 7551, not just the Aspire One

---

### Post by clauguia on 2011-03-05
10.04 sony vaio y

first had to follow this one, for the touchpad to work at all:
> 
1. Edit /etc/default/grub to include GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=”i8042.nopnp”
2. Run: sudo update-grub
3. Reboot.


But the scroll still didn't work properly.

Than I followed farbird's and it's working like a charm.

thanks

---

### Post by gianLuca_leMort on 2011-07-19
This fix is still going strong in 2011! Thanks so much.:popcorn:

---

### Post by cy bais on 2011-07-20
Thanks worked on my Acer Aspire w/ Ubuntu 10.04

---

### Post by badook on 2011-10-29
> **farbird said:**
> go to terminal
```

sudo rmmod psmouse
sudo modprobe psmouse proto=imps

```

if proto=imps doesnt work, try proto=exps

try the touchpad again for scrolling..

if it works, u need to make it permanent.
```

sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/options

```

enter these lines in the nano editor

```

options psmouse proto=imps

```

then press CTRL-X and press Y.

[credits here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9207727&postcount=2)

reboot PC.

It solved my touchpad problem on a samsung n145! thanks!

---

### Post by imacedo on 2012-04-28
Ok, Try this
1. Open Terminal
2. cd /etc/modprobe.d/ 
3. sudo gedit options.conf 
4. In the text editor, type: options psmouse proto=imps 
5. Save the file and close it. 
6. sudo modprobe -r psmouse 
7. sudo modprobe psmouse

---

