---
title: "9.10 - Wifi - RTL8187SE - Causing Kernel Panic"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-05
I'm currently trying to install 9.10 on my Toshiba Satellite T115-S110.  Specs are as follows:

```

Video: Intel GMA 4500M

Wireless: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8187SE Wireless Lan Controller (rev 22)

Ethernet: Attansic Technology Corp. Atheros AR8132 / L1c Gigabit Ethernet Adapter (rev c0)

PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 93)

ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M-E LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
SATA controller: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E SATA AHCI Controller (rev 03)
SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)

```

Originally I was having trouble just running the Live Cd as it would always Kernel Panic before ever getting to the Desktop environment.

I discovered that by disabling the wireless card in the BIOS the Live CD works just fine.  It has no trouble proceeding with the installation in this state as well.

However, as soon as I re-enable the wireless card, it just Kernel Panic's on me again.  

My best guess is that there's some kind of conflict with the wireless driver and some other unknown process.

Anyone have any ideas as to what might be causing this?  Or better yet, something that might fix this?

Any help is greatly appreciated.

edit: Here's what the Kernel Panic says -
```

[17.529523] Kernel panic - not syncing: HwThreeWire(): CmdReg: 0XFF RE|WE bits are not clear!!
[17.529525]
[17.544365][drm:intelfb_panic] *ERROR* panic occurred, switching back to text console

```

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-08
Ok making some progress:

Blacklisting rtl8187se enables Ubuntu to boot without a problem.

I'm convinced it's a problem with the driver.  Gonna try ndiswrapper and see if it still freaks out.

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-08
Ok, seems using ndiswrapper and [the MSI version of the Windows Driver]("http://global.msi.eu/index.php?func=driverfile&dno=6922&i=1") for the rtl8187se gets it working perfectly.

I'm still pretty curious as to why the native Linux version performs so poorly?

Anyway, this should help anyone else who picks up the Toshiba Satellite T115-S1100 and wants to run Linux.

---

### Post by phillpot on 2009-11-09
I have a t115 as well and am trying to get the wireless going.  Which driver did you use in the msi driver zip? the one for xp?  I have tried all of the drivers - my wireless is on but only sees but does not connect to my home wireless network.  At least windows 7 garbage is off and ubuntu no longer kernel panics.

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-09
I should have been more clear, sorry about that.

Yeah, I used ndisgtk (in the repos) to install the .inf in the "WINXP2K" folder.

It should bear reminding that once you blacklist rtl8187se, you should re-enable the Wireless card in the BIOS.

I made that mistake when I was first figuring it out. :D

Also, I haven't tried it with a WPA connection, but WEP works just fine.

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-09
Also, I'm pretty sure we have the same model, but the wireless card in this particular unit has the following device id:

output from "lspci -n":

08:00.0 0280: **10ec:8199** (rev 22)

---

### Post by phillpot on 2009-11-09
yeah I was sure to enable the wireless in the bios, and did use the winxp driver...However I am having trouble connecting to WPA; I am going to try WEP to see if it works.


Thanks for the guide real help -  this little toshiba with 9.10 really flies compared to 7.

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-09
No problem.

I just tried connecting to a WPA connection.  No go...

I'd really like to figure out what's causing the native driver to freak out.  Not being able to connect to WPA connections is a real handicap.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-11-10
i've got this wireless card in my advent 4213 (rebadged msi wind) and the native driver works almost perfectly for me.

no kernel panics, it all works wpa and all.  it just times out every now and then.

i dont know why yet but for no apparent reason my connection drops off - everything appears to still be connected but no packets go in or out of the interface. I have to disconnect from the wlan and then reconnect and then it will be fine again.

sometimes i can go for days without a dropout, sometimes it only last a few minutes at a time.  it can be very frustrating when trying to download something.

I have been able to find very little info in this driver and only threads started by other but never answered.

I suppose none of the helps you but i justed wanted you to know that the native driver does actually work and you should not need ndiswrapper.

edit: this may help answer any questions you may have.  straight from the horses mouth

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/246141](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/246141)

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-10
Thanks for the info confused user!

Tried to compile the linked driver, but it simply wont build on Karmic Koala.

Anyways guys, I think I figured out what was causing the problem.  I think there may be a problem with **when** Ubuntu brings up the wireless module for the rtl8187se during boot.

I tried disabling ndiswrapper, and reloading the original rtl8187se module after getting to the desktop.  Doing that brings up the wireless connection, no kernel panic's or crashing.

Even works on WPA networks too! :)

Let me know if this works for you guys too.

Now to figure out how to fix the loading issue...

edit: spoke too soon, this does not work on a freshly installed system

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-10
Ok, this makes no sense to me, but I can get the default rtl818se driver to load only **AFTER** ndiswrapper has loaded.

So essentially:

1) Have ndiswrapper load up the windows driver.
2) sudo rmmod ndiswrapper
3) sudo modprobe rtl8187se

This will allow loading of the rtl8187se driver without causing a kernel panic.  Don't ask me why this works, it just does.:confused:

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-11-11
i'm using the stock driver that comes with the kernel, works on the live cd too.

i dont understand why your having so much trouble with this :hmmm:

long shot but have you tried to copy the kernel module from the cd and just modprobe -i it? 

if that does not work then i would start looking further afield,  something else if interfering...

edit: also, having ndsiwrapper + windows driver and the native driver loaded at the same time is just going to cause confusion, disable ndiswrapper while your working with the native driver.

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-11
Live CD kernel module kernel panic's too.

What I've done is tried loading the default rtl8187se kernel module  on its own (no ndiswrapper installed).  That causes a system freeze.

Letting Ubuntu load it on its own = Kernel Panic

The only way I can get the default rtl8187se kernel module to load at all is to first load ndiswrapper (with driver).

Then, completely disabling all instances of ndiswrapper (that is to say rmmmod it).  This of course kills my wireless.

Then, modprobing the default driver (stock rtl8187se).  By doing this, it'll load the module without causing a system panic.

---

### Post by phillpot on 2009-11-11
How do you go about recompiling the original driver that ships with ubuntu?  I would also like to give this a try.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-11-12
ok so what is ndiswrapper loading?  the windows driver?

since the stock driver works for me i'm thinking that it's a combination of that driver with something else in your kernel that might be causing this.  also, i have found that different wireless encryption standards can upset my driver, wep for example crashes my entire system - the whole thing locks up and i have to take my battery out.  wpa2 on the other hand work fine but times out a bit.

so if you unload the kernel module - sudo modprobe -r rtl8187se.ko and then start up ndiswrapper (with the windows driver?),p what happens?

it sounds like it will work

---

### Post by phillpot on 2009-11-12
I tried the fix Anchor posted above worked like a charm.  thanks big help

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-13
Glad it worked for you phillpot.  It's a very bad fix, but at least you can use WPA.

[quote=""]
ok so what is ndiswrapper loading? the windows driver?[/quote]

Yep, I have ndiswrapper load up the Windows driver, then I disable ndiswrapper entirely (disabling the windows driver along with it).  Doing this allows me to just load the rtl8187se.ko module without a problem.

If I don't first have ndiswrapper load up the Windows driver, loading the rtl8187se.ko will almost certainly crash the system.

[quote=""]
since the stock driver works for me i'm thinking that it's a combination of that driver with something else in your kernel that might be causing this.[/quote]

I'm thinking the same thing.  I have no idea how to even try to troubleshoot that though.  I have noticed that my laptop speakers cannot be disabled.  That is to say, when I plug in my headphones the laptop speakers continue outputting sound.

From my preliminary readings, it seems to be problem associated with Intel chipsets.

[quote=""]
also, i have found that different wireless encryption standards can upset my driver, wep for example crashes my entire system - the whole thing locks up and i have to take my battery out. wpa2 on the other hand work fine but times out a bit.[/quote]

That's odd.  Once I perform that kludgy fix, the wireless card can pretty much hop back and forth between WEP and WPA without a problem.

[quote=""]
so if you unload the kernel module - sudo modprobe -r rtl8187se.ko and then start up ndiswrapper (with the windows driver?),p what happens?[/quote]

Haven't tried that, but wouldn't that just load ndiswrapper?

rtl8187se is already blacklisted so it wont load the module to begin with.  Thus there's nothing to unload.

"modprobe -r" would unload rtl8187se, but the problem is that it's already been prevented from loading.  

Starting ndiswrapper should load the windows driver, but it can only connect to WEP encrypted wireless signals. 


It's a problem that seems to persist across distros seeing as Linux Mint suffers from the same issue.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-11-13
ok i think i'm with you now.

with ndiswrapper it all works lovely except for WPA so might as well not work at all

to be able to boot into a working system you have to load the native driver (because that crashes your system [btw kernel panic is not really an issue, it just means it's 3rd party or something, a kernel panic should not in my experience cause a system to crash like this - correct me if i'm wrong though]) so you start up ndiswrapper, once that works you can then load the native driver which without a system crash. 

then you stop ndiswrapper and it's all good until you restart?

for trouble shooting the kernel have you tried tailing /var/log/kern.log while all this is going on?

another option is to build your own kernel from scratch - which is not as bad as it sounds but will take a bit of time.

my favorite option would be to work out how much your free time is worth to you, compare that to how much time your spending on this and think about buying better wifi card :)

sorry i know it's a cop out but **** it, lifes too short.

On the bugtrack thread people say they just bought this one for £10 off ebay **Intel 4965AGN**  it supports 802.11N as well.

Sorry i cant really help you man, i feel your pain but i'd need to sit in front of your laptop for a while to make any progress i think.

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-13
[quote=""]to be able to boot into a working system you have to load the native driver (because that crashes your system [btw kernel panic is not really an issue, it just means it's 3rd party or something, a kernel panic should not in my experience cause a system to crash like this - correct me if i'm wrong though]) so you start up ndiswrapper, once that works you can then load the native driver which without a system crash. 

then you stop ndiswrapper and it's all good until you restart?[/quote]

Pretty much, except i stop ndiswrapper before i load the native driver.  Everything is else is right.

Also, I think I remember reading that certain kernel panics can hard lock the system.  The "aiee" ones if i'm not mistaken.

[quote=""]
my favorite option would be to work out how much your free time is worth to you, compare that to how much time your spending on this and think about buying better wifi card 

sorry i know it's a cop out but **** it, lifes too short.

On the bugtrack thread people say they just bought this one for £10 off ebay Intel 4965AGN it supports 802.11N as well.[/quote]

Haha, I know.  My free time is pretty precious to me as I'm still in college.  School really just eats up most of my time.

I have a couple of wirless cards laying around that I could try, but I was more interested in trying to find a solution to the problem.  

That, plus I lack the required tools to get access to the laptops chasis. :D

---

### Post by Amenotep on 2009-11-13
'lo all, i'm using karmic and i must say i don't understand half of what's being debated here, but with ndiswrapper i managed to put it working correctly (better than in windows). Even in WPA is working just fine. My pc originally shiped out with linux so the company shipping it made some drivers available, i used those and it worked.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-11-14
OK  i'll go out and buy the Intel 4965AGN and see if i get better results from the intel driver - i'll post back the results.

what tools do you need anyway?  i've not come across a laptop yet that cant be opened up with a single screw driver.

---

### Post by anchor on 2009-11-14
Nothing major really, but it does use "star" screws on some parts of the laptop.

All my tools are back home, but I'm away at Uni. :(

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-11-16
> **anchor said:**
> Nothing major really, but it does use "star" screws on some parts of the laptop.

All my tools are back home, but I'm away at Uni. :(

oh you mean Torx, oh well, you could buy a torx set for under a tenner but...

good luck!

---

### Post by ihristov on 2010-06-12
After reading this thread I foolishly assumed replacing the WiFi card should be easy. Well, it's not.

I failed to replace the WiFi card in my Toshiba T115-S1100.

It's not like many other laptops or netbooks I have seen where the WiFi card is right under a cover, so it's just a couple of screws away.

It's quite difficult to open the case. I struggled for about an hour and still could not open it all the way. There is something holding the top part right where the HDD case is.

At any rate I was able to pry it open enough to see where the WiFi card is. It's right below the label "Satellite" on the front left. The hight of the PCB is about 20-25 mm, but the Intel 4965AGN I have is about twice that (50 mm). In other words it won't fit.

Just wanted to share this to avoid the hassle for others

---

### Post by errietta on 2010-08-23
Sorry to bump this old post, but I'm having the exact problem. I tried ndiswrapper.. Nothing. Tried loading the driver up in ndiswrapper, then unloading ndiswrapper and loading rtl8187se... nothing. Tried updating the system, nothing. Tried getting the driver from that other site you posted, all download mirrors have a broken link. I'm out of ideas. Has anyone else found a solution?

---

