---
title: "8.10 freezing on resume from Hibernate"
date: 2008-12-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mordoc on 2008-12-02
I have a IBM R51 with 512MB RAM, 30 GB Hard disk, ATI MobileRadeon, and an Intel 2200 wireless card that won't resume from hibernation.

Any one have some ideas on how to troubleshoot this?  I was hoping to be helpful to the community somehow on this...

---

### Post by mordoc on 2009-01-25
Folks,

Figured out my own answer to this problem:

1. Edit the acpi-support configuration file (/etc/default/acpi-support)
2. Change the following lines:

# Add modules to this list to have them removed before suspend and reloaded
# on resume. An example would be MODULES="em8300 yenta_socket"
#
# Note that network cards and USB controllers will automatically be unloaded
# unless they're listed in MODULES_WHITELIST
MODULES=""

to ->

# Add modules to this list to have them removed before suspend and reloaded
# on resume. An example would be MODULES="em8300 yenta_socket"
#
# Note that network cards and USB controllers will automatically be unloaded
# unless they're listed in MODULES_WHITELIST
MODULES="ipw2200 intel_agp agpart"

Hope this helps anyone else with the same problem...Thanks to the following site for ideas on solution: 

[http://www.amitsrivastava.net/2008-03-23-hibernate-suspend-resolved-ubuntu-gutsy-nvidia-dell-vostro/]("http://www.amitsrivastava.net/2008-03-23-hibernate-suspend-resolved-ubuntu-gutsy-nvidia-dell-vostro/")

One more update, I also had the problem again a day later, so far it seems to be working with SUSPEND_MODES="acpi-support"

---

### Post by mordoc on 2009-02-01
Well it stopped working again 3 days ago...I had given up but then yesterday when the kernel was updated it all works fine.  It could be that or the some of the things that I did in fooling around with the swap partition.

Regardless it works!  Thanks Ubuntu team for the updated kernel!:KS

---

### Post by msright1981 on 2009-02-01
Haha mordoc,

I agree a new kernel every now & then is a good thing :). Don't we love Linux for how fast they release us the next kernel which fix our problems. XOXO Ubuntu :)

---

### Post by mordoc on 2009-02-16
Gang,

I found this on the OpenSUSE forums:
[URL="https://bugzilla.novell.com/show_bug.cgi?id=450256"]
https://bugzilla.novell.com/show_bug.cgi?id=450256[/URL]

Anyone able to try this out?  I have installed OpenSUSE to see if this was a distribution thing or a kernel issue - if this works for someone else it will leave it at a kernel issue as identified by the OpenSUSE team...

PS: It's really a BIOS issue, but read the link for more information on that.

---

