---
title: "14.04 and openvpn connection not working in gui"
date: 2014-04-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Gustavo_Sanchez on 2014-04-17
Hi everyone,

Just installed 14.04 on a Dell 14 7000 and it is working great. Installation was a breezy even with UEFI secure boot. I am having a problem though when setting up my work openvpn connection through the GUI. These are the steps that I took after installing Ubuntu.

```
sudo apt-get install network-manager-openvpn network-manager-openvpn-gnome
```

I go to the vpn option to config connection and then import from file "client.ovpn"

After this nothing happens and the connection is nowhere to be found. I decide to do it the manual way by extracting ca.crt client.crt client.key ta.key from the .ovpn file and just create the connection manually. I finish setting up the connection but when trying to connect the vpn connection just times out and it does not ask me for my google authenticator code which we have enabled on our vpn server.

Now I thought that openvpn might be properly installed so I decided to test out the command line method of copying all the files to /etc/openvpn and then running the following:

```
sudo openvpn --config "client.ovpn"
```

This method works flawlessly over terminal and asks me for my google authenticator code. VPN connection works with no issues when doing it through command line. The "client.ovpn" is a user locked profile that I pulled straight from our openvpn web frontend which works flawlessly with viscosity which is what I use on my Windows machines.

I have removed the openvpn packages and reinstalled them and still no dice. Don't really know what to do at this point to get the GUI to work.

---

### Post by Gustavo_Sanchez on 2014-04-17
Don't know why this showed up here when I posted it in the networking section. If a mod could move it please if possible?

---

### Post by kj684258 on 2014-04-18
I am having the exact sam problem. I was able to connect using 13.10... soon after IJ upgraded I realized the vpn no longer works. I can also say that its is only with 14.04 becaause I have another laptop (personal) running 13.10 which can connect to the vpn just fine.

And how does it say first cup of Ubuntu?? giving that I have been a member of these here forums for a long time ... or is it because I am ussing the SSO??

---

### Post by arm-c on 2014-04-19
Exact same issue.  I should have searched this before; however, I just posted a similar post.  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217944]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217944")

---

### Post by equiman on 2014-12-03
Maybe this post can help:

[http://equimantux.blogspot.com/2014/11/conectar-open-vpn-y-tener-internet-al.html](http://equimantux.blogspot.com/2014/11/conectar-open-vpn-y-tener-internet-al.html)

It's on spanish , but pictures and links on bottom can help to solve it.

---

