---
title: "mice"
date: 2021-04-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-04-16
my logitec mice seem to given up the ghost. 1 is 2002 model, the other 2004. its been a good run. wireless optical marble mouse. Well i got another logitec. no marble. anyway the problem is acceleration. i turned it down all the way, the pointer still is too fast. maybe i should write this off, but if i give it to somebody, then they would have the problem.
so,, can i slow this down even more?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-04-16
There are two aspects to how the pointer moves on screen based on the input from the mouse:

[list]
[*]**sensitivity** - how far the pointer moves for each movement signal of the mouse
[*] ** acceleration ** - how much the distance travelled by the pointer is changed by how fast you're moving the mouse. When you're throwing the mouse across the screen you don't necessarily want as much precision as if you're doing pixel work. I hate this. Hate it, hate it, hate it. 
[/list]
You want to be sure that you're actually adjusting the right thing.

For configuring the sensitivity (and other things) it's hard to beat [Piper](https://itsfoss.com/piper-configure-gaming-mouse-linux/).

For configuring the acceleration curve, different desktop environments expose the settings differently. In KDE it's just a radio button to say that you don't want it messing with the input. Others aren't necessarily as user friendly. The underlying input systems have changed several times over the years, so there are several config file changes you can make should it turn out to be necessary.

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-04-17
the newer it gets, the harder the work; maybe its the older i get. anyway i'l look it up.. thanks

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-04-17
It's one of those compensating-for-historically-bad-hardware things.

So, classic example, a display with less than 100 pixels per inch is just terrible as a display, particularly for rendering text; unfortunately, it's all we had for decades, which led to all sorts of false assumptions about how things should be presented on a screen. As soon as decent displays, with resolution comparable to print, were economically viable, all of those assumptions were shown to be false and everything broke; everything was suddenly way too tiny, or the display was run non-natively and everything was blurry. Hacks were created to compensate for prior hacks, and the whole thing is a mess.

A similar thing happened with mice. Ball mice generated signals thousands of times a second, and the position signals were generated by the analogue movement of geared rollers, so they were both responsive and precise. But, fluff blocked the rollers and the high signal rate was possible because the port was electrically connected to the microcontroller - unplug your mouse when the computer is on and you could permanently damage the port. 

Optical/laser mice plugged into a USB port solved those hardware issues - they didn't pick up fluff and wrap it around a roller, and USB was designed to be hot-pluggable - but they were much worse as mice. USB signals need to be interpreted by the CPU rather than by dedicated hardware, and CPUs at the time were pretty crap, so the signal (polling) rate was at best 125 Hz to reduce the CPU load: they weren't responsive, and would get less responsive if your computer was working hard. The amount of computer vision that you could affordably fit into a palm-sized package was extremely limited: they weren't precise. 

They didn't fluff up, and they could be made lighter than ball mice because they didn't need a ball, and they could work on curved surfaces, and no one could steal the ball out of them. So the market switched. As a result of everyone using terrible input devices, assumptions were made, and hacks created - like "mouse acceleration" to compensate for their awful precision. 

Now computers and mice have advanced to the point that they're about as good as ball mice were 30 years ago. Faster CPUs and power-efficient USB controllers mean that having a polling rate of 1000 Hz is no problem, and advances in sensors mean that you can affordably put something that can represent the tiny movements of a surface into a small device.

However, those decades of terrible hardware have left their legacy on all the input handling and movement presentation systems. And the assumptions are false, and everything breaks. This means that, like the high-DPI monitor situation, you have extra complexity to deal with because you're undoing those legacy hacks.

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-04-19
Yep, on the above.. Sometime i dont see right in front of me, maybe always. i just noticed the mouse requires Bluetooth technology. OK, i overlooked that one.  ya think its in terminal. i'll check.  my memory aint what it never was...

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-04-19
> **oneleded said:**
> i just noticed the mouse requires Bluetooth technology. OK, i overlooked that one.  ya think its in terminal. i'll check.
[Bluetooth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bluetooth) is if you want to use it wirelessly. The terminal methods for controlling Bluetooth devices are way more complicated than the GUI ones; if you have a Bluetooth radio in your computer you'll likely have a means to control it on your panel.

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-04-19
Nope, i dont.., i guess., not unless its in the usb plug-in. i mighta got the wrong mouse. M720... only cost 25 or so. i didnt have my short-sighted glasses on when i bought it. it dont want x-tra radio waves, if ya can imagine..
got enough now. [just a pet  theory]. ;~}
i downloaded Piper, 0.4.. it cant find anything. i was going to remove it. might, anyway.. there are many versions of Piper at git hub..

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-04-20
The Logitech M720 is one of the [supported devices](https://github.com/libratbag/libratbag/tree/master/data/devices). There's a PPA for Piper and a PPA for ratbag; you need them both to be on the same version for it to work, I think.

Oh, Piper's made it into the standard repositories now, so you shouldn't need to add anything. I knew that it had been planned, but I didn't know that it had happened yet.

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-04-23
i switched out the receiver, my old mouse works. if i dont need bluetooth, ill skip it for now. thanks for you help

---

