---
title: "10.04 + Genius MousePen 8x6 = Stuck after 1 click"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by negora on 2010-05-04
Hiya!:

For all my years of experience with Ubuntu I've been dealing with lots of problems to use my Manhattan tablet (identified by Linux as "Genius MousePen 8x6 Tablet"). Fortunately I always found a driver or configuration which made it work fine.

However, I've moved to Ubuntu 10.04 and it seems that the method to configure tablets has changed again (I guess that now it uses a mixture of "udev" rules and X.org configuration files, according to what I've read in these forums).

OK, this is the problem: The pen seems to be recognized perfectly and I'm able to move the pointer with it. However, after doing only (and only) 1 click, I need to keep it pushed over the tablet in order to move the pointer again. It's like if pressing the pen tip made it get stuck.

I experienced something like that in the past, when testing other drivers. But it happened from the beginning, not after 1 click.

By the way, I'm using the drivers from the DoctorMo repository. I've "played" altering several parameters from the HAL, udev and X.org configuration files with no luck.

Any ideas? I need to use the tablet almost on a daily basis and it would be a shame to have to return to Ubuntu 9.10 only because of one simple problem. Specially after having dealt with another 2 big errors, one with the nVidia graphic card and another with the WiFi adapter.

Thank you a lot ;) .

---

### Post by negora on 2010-05-04
Oh, yes! Persistence is the key of success after all :) . Always with help from the great Ubuntu community documentation, of course ( [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TabletSetupWizardpen](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TabletSetupWizardpen) ).

Finally the "trick" has consisted in altering by hand the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf . It's weird because in the last versions of Ubuntu I hadn't needed to alter this file in order to make my tablet work, only in the oldest ones. On the most recent I only had to set the corresponding FDI file for HAL and it was done. I was trying to apply this theory to udev, now that HAL is supposed to be deprecated, but obviously it's not enough.

So... Are we going back to the roots then? Weren't we supposed to abandon (in part) the need of configuring the xorg.conf by hand and mess with HAL/udev rules instead?

By now the pen seems to move without getting stuck after the 1st click, but the buttons are acting goofy. Tomorrow when I get up I'll try to fix that issue and then, I'll post my solution here, in case that it's of help to others.

Salutes.

---

### Post by suomaf on 2010-05-05
would appreciate it if you could post your results.

---

### Post by negora on 2010-05-05
**suomaf:** Hello! Don't worry, as soon I get my conclusions I'll post them here. By now I'm facing a problem with the mapping of the pen buttons.

When I click on Firefox it takes me one page back, which means that the pen tip is being mapped as one of the thumb buttons of a mouse. I hope that a simple remap into the /etc/X11/xorg.cong file or using the xinput command fix it.

---

### Post by negora on 2010-05-06
To avoid duplications, since another user started a similar thread, I'm ending this one and continuing at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9247146#post9247146](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9247146#post9247146) .

---

### Post by negora on 2010-05-10
**SOLVED.** You can find the solution on the bug ticket which I opened on LaunchPad: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/wizardpen/+bug/576610](https://bugs.launchpad.net/wizardpen/+bug/576610) .

---

### Post by eamusic on 2010-08-04
Thanks negora.

At last (5 month looking for) my tablet is working 100% now ^^

greetings from Colombia.):P

---

