---
title: "10.04 -- eeePC 1000h wi-fi problem"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by joeinbend on 2010-05-06
Hi all,
I have an Asus eeePC 1000h, with an Atheros 802.11 built-in (see lspci output below). I have been using Ubuntu dual booting with Win7 for a long time with no issues with wi-fi. After installing either 10.04 desktop or netbook edition, i can no longer connect to my WPA2 wifi network. Oddly, I can connect through my Android phone via wi-fi tether with no encryption enabled. 

When I try to connect to my WPA2 network, it shows the "scrolling up and down" wifi network for a minute or two, and will eventually fail. Has anyone has this happen? I've tried disabling and re-enabling the wifi, no good. Wifi works normally in Win7, so i know it is not a hardware issue.

here is the line from my lspci:
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Atheros AR8121/AR8113/AR8114 PCI-E Ethernet Controller (rev b0)

---

### Post by joeinbend on 2010-05-07
Nobody with an eeePC, or Atheros wi-fi for that matter, having this problem?? lucky me!!

---

### Post by hndrcks on 2010-05-07
Hi Joe, there is in fact a 10.04 NBR bug with the eee-pc wireless. The problem is evident with WPA and WPA2 encryption. WEP and unsecured access won't show the problem.

If you search the bug lists you'll find it. There was some debate about fixing it before release but I think it turned out to be a bigger deal than just one patch.

(I am responding as a fellow EEE owner who did the Googling.)

---

### Post by joeinbend on 2010-05-07
Thanks for the reply Hndrcks, I wasnt able to find any leads on it myself. I will be patient and keep an eye on the bug reports. Maybe I'll just drop my encryption back to WEP until the issue is resolved

Thanks!

---

### Post by dougo on 2010-05-07
I have the same problem with EeePC 901. WPA2 won't connect.
With the same Atheros details as shown by joeinbend.

---

### Post by lambdacore on 2010-05-08
same here.
i have an eeepc 1000 ha and, when on WPA, the network disconnects every like 5 minutes and reconnects.

when i put WEP, it works no problem.

really annoying.

---

### Post by joeinbend on 2010-05-09
I am having difficulty finding the bug report for this. If anyone has found it, can you post the link to it, so affected users can track the issue? I'm unfortunately stuck using Win7 on my eeePC until there is an available fix for this.

---

### Post by hndrcks on 2010-05-15
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/545443](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/545443)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/496093](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/496093)

---

### Post by nurlip on 2010-05-19
I have the eeepc 1000 and have nearly the same problem.  my wpa2 network connection drops after about 5 minutes but it doesn't reconnect w/o a restart.  i haven't had any issues with Ubuntu on this pc until this release :(.  very sorry i eagerly updated.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2010-05-19
[QUOTE=joeinbend;9246329]Hi all,
I have an Asus eeePC 1000h, with an Atheros 802.11 built-in (see lspci output below). I have been using Ubuntu dual booting with Win7 for a long time with no issues with wi-fi. After installing either 10.04 desktop or netbook edition, i can no longer connect to my WPA2 wifi network. Oddly, I can connect through my Android phone via wi-fi tether with no encryption enabled. 

When I try to connect to my WPA2 network, it shows the "scrolling up and down" wifi network for a minute or two, and will eventually fail. Has anyone has this happen? I've tried disabling and re-enabling the wifi, no good. Wifi works normally in Win7, so i know it is not a hardware issue.

I don't know if this helps or not, but I use EEEBUNTU on my ASUS 900 and everything worked "right out of the box".  It was written specifically for the ASUS and is just great.  It does, however, run the 9.04 release.

---

### Post by frsu on 2010-05-23
Same problem here with Mint 9. Is based on Lucid.:(

---

### Post by dacrigon on 2010-05-23
have an eeepc 900ha and have the same problem. i tried easypeasy 1.6 and still the wifi does not work. I am currently using jolicloud which is also ubuntu based and everything works out of the box.
However i want to use ubuntu and not any of its clones, anyone has got an idea of how to be able to fix the wifi on a 900ha?

---

### Post by frsu on 2010-05-28
I have seen it is reported in lauchpad.net, so we have to wait untill the solution is given or that someone has a good idea.:)

---

### Post by keep you kimi on 2010-05-29
tired of waiting for bug fix i switched to intel 5100 based wifi adapter and it works much better.

---

### Post by frsu on 2010-05-29
How did you do that?

---

### Post by Txakurra on 2010-05-29
> **dougo said:**
> I have the same problem with EeePC 901. WPA2 won't connect.
With the same Atheros details as shown by joeinbend.

Hi Dougo,

Solved the problem on my 901 by following instructions:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1476007](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1476007)

Good luck.

---

### Post by Blümchen Blau on 2010-05-29
Easy to solve with [Mainline Kernel]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/")! I first took the 2.6.33.3 and upgraded later on to ...33.4. Works perfectly since weeks on my 1000H.

---

### Post by keep you kimi on 2010-05-29
> **frsu said:**
> How did you do that?

i bought an intel based adapter for ~10$ and put in inside instead of the azureware one. works perfect.

---

### Post by frsu on 2010-06-02
I think I will install PCLinuxOS 2010 Gnome, works fine with wireless.:)

---

### Post by hndrcks on 2010-06-05
A new kernel 2.6.32.22 was released earlier this week - once I installed it this morning the wireless has been solid. The buglists don't mention this kernel as being the fix, so maybe it's just good karma.

Would like to hear from other who have patched up to the latest kernel and if they are seeing better luck now -

Hmmm, bad karma. The minute I posted it broke again. off to find that mainline kernel!

---

### Post by frsu on 2010-06-25
Bump.):P

---

### Post by mrashley on 2010-06-28
I found that I couldn't connect at all until I put my network into WPA2 only mode. (Before it was WPA/WPA2 auto.)

Then for quite a while I could connect. After my Eee PC (1000H) was on standby for a while I noticed I couldn't connect again. I restarted the network manager service and connected again..

```
sudo service network-manager stop
sudo service network-manager start

```

Perhaps someone else wants to try one or the other of these steps out and report to this dialog?

---

### Post by avsu on 2010-07-14
Fix released time ago. Check out comments how to fix:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/496093?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/496093?comments=all)

---

