---
title: "13.04: HP Pavilion DV6 : Radeon HD drivers issue"
date: 2013-05-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by magowiz82 on 2013-05-01
Hi all,
I've got on my laptop these graphic cards :
```
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI RS880M [Mobility Radeon HD 4225/4250]
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Park [Mobility Radeon HD 5430/5450/5470]

```
The problem began when ATI/AMD decided to splut mine 2 graphic cards in 2 different drivers, the HD 4000 series is now only in legacy driver, not installable in current ubuntu because it needs an older kernel (3.4 series) and a older xorg server, the legacy driver anyway doesn't support mine HD 5000 series card, the only driver I can install from amd.com website is the current one that supports HD 5000 series but not HD 4000 series and for some strange problem I wasn't able to use my internal notebook display with mine HD 5000 series card. 
I tried even with ubuntu provided packages : fglrx and fglrx-updates, with both I have similar results as current amd.com driver. 

So I tried to use radeon open source driver removing all fglrx packages but I got screen corruption and overheating that brings to thermal shutdown, I searched online for a solution to this issue and I understood that a solution is to set the power method to low , using this instruction :
```
echo low > /sys/class/drm/card0/device/power_profile
```
but I cannot do this since there is not such file , did 3.8 series kernel have the same file in a different location or they changed the name ?
What should I try?
Obviously I can provide further information if you need it.

---

### Post by General_Faliure on 2013-05-05
I also have a HP DV6 with the same chipset.
i am afraid we will be stuck with using the older 12.04 which worked reasonably well, although not up to full speed.
I am playing around with different distributions now, but i believe the hybrid amd chipset will continue being a problem.
Next time i best keep away from hybrid chipsets.

---

### Post by magowiz82 on 2013-05-06
bump

---

### Post by spaceshipguy on 2013-05-14
I hace the same chips - and my computer runs hot and noisy. Is there any way to reduce the load on the poor laptop. Jupiter used to work a treat.

---

### Post by ephryn on 2013-05-29
Hi everyone, I have a HP Pavilion DV7-1245DX which comes with an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3200. As we have heard we are not able to install AMD's legacy drivers past 12.04, I've found that this is not true, xserver needs to be downgraded to 1.12 before you are able to install the legacy drivers, I found some directions on [dotTech]("http://dottech.org/105987/how-to-install-amd-13-1-legacy-drivers-on-ubuntu-13-04-guide/"), I had some issues with the directions but I think that has to with me. Also you may want to look into liquorix kernel also.I hope this helps some one.

---

### Post by General_Faliure on 2013-05-30
You only have a Radeon 3200, which works with the legacy drivers, i know about the xserver downgrading trick.
I have a Radeon 4200 and 5470 Hybrid.
The driver needs to switch between the two graphic chips, but in Linux, it doesn't.
Even in windows it only works with the driver provided by HP (wich is almost three years old now), upgrading to a new driver is not possible.
I now have Ubuntu 12.04 with the legacy driver installed, in the driver there is the option to switch to the faster graphics card, it should work after reboot, but it doesn't, it keeps using the 4200.
I even mailed to HP about it, but never got an answer.

---

### Post by Feathers McGraw on 2013-07-20
Hi all,

Glad to know I'm not the only one in this boat!

I also have a Pavilion DV6 (specifically, a DV6 3122-sa) with the same video cards.

I have a workaround that will allow you to use **Kubuntu 13.04** with fglrx, but it requires a fair bit of patience. Unfortunately, it doesn't work for Ubuntu but if you're willing to try a new desktop environment then it's worth a go.

I found that fglrx and Ubuntu 12.04 don't get on, and after installing & rebooting I was left with a blank screen. However, Kubuntu 12.04 and fglrx work just fine.

The solution is to install fglrx in Kubuntu 12.04, and then use the upgrade tool to move to 12.10 then 13.04 (unfortunately, I haven't found a way to make it work with a fresh installation of Kubuntu 13.04 as the "aticonfig --initial" command returns an error. Upgrading allows you to create the configuration files in 12.04 and keep them). Upgrading takes a long time but is easy (because it's automatic). I think it's worth the time because Kubuntu 13.04 is much improved over 12.04 - much smoother and no bugs.

Here's a guide, starting from a clean installation of Kubuntu 12.04:

**Step 1 - install proprietary fglrx drivers**

```

sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx*
sudo cp  /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.BAK
sudo apt-get install fglrx fglrx-amdcccle
sudo aticonfig --initial
sudo reboot

```

**Step 2 - enable hardware acceleration**

```

sudo apt-get install xvba-va-driver libva-glx1 libva-egl1 vainfo

```

[B]Step 3 - upgrade to 12.10
[/B]> open the muon software centre
> navigate to settings --> configure software sources
> click the updates tab
> under the release upgrade tab, select "normal releases" in the drop-down menu
> click "check for updates" and you should receive a prompt saying "a newer version of Kubuntu is available".
> let the wizard upgrade for you

**Step 4 - upgrade to 13.04**
> as you can't jump from 12.04 to 13.04 directly, you will now be using 12.10. Check for updates again and upgrade one more time to 13.04.

**Done. Enjoy Kubuntu 13.04**





Hopefully that will be useful to someone!

Feathers

---

