---
title: "8.04 Hardy and Monitor brightness hotkey"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lviggiani on 2008-04-28
Hi,
after upgrading to Hardy, the keyboard hotkeys (fn+up / fn+down) to adjust my laptop video brightness are working again (they were not on 7.10).
However they have a strange behavior:
When pressing fn+up it goes always 100% even if I was at 10% and I press and release it very quickly. And the same happens while pressing fn+down: it goes to about 20%.
In addition, in both cases, it displays several overlapped tooltip windows showing current brightness (I've attached an example).

My laptop is a Dell XPS M1330 with nVidia GeForce 8400M GS. The driver is the nVidia 169.12.

Does anybody has the same problem and, perhaps, the solution?
Thanks!

---

### Post by dagurb on 2008-04-30
I have the same problem on my Dell XPS M1330 with nVidia GeForce 8400M GS. It only has two steps, when going up from 0% it seems to g directly up to 60% and then 100% and when going down from 100% it seems to go to 40% and then 0%. The brightness controls are very "granular" compared to how they work on Windows.

---

### Post by cracker on 2008-05-02
I have this same problem with the same laptop, Dell XPS M1330 with nvidia 8400M GS. The brightness adjusts by about 60% with each keypress. I've been searching for a way to configure this behavior, but haven't found any. Using the gnome panel brightness applet, I can adjust the brightness to any level, so it's not a hardware/acpi/driver issue at all, just a matter of configuration of the keys. I'd really like to be able to use them. I'm using the open source driver at the moment, but from the original poster's info, I assume this problem is unrelated to which driver is in use, since he uses official nvidia drivers. I'm using regular Ubuntu, not Kubuntu.

Searching the forums, I found some related posts...right now, I'm working on adjusting these solutions to work for the Dell XPS M1330.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=767219](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=767219)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=673946](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=673946)

---

### Post by olavjunior on 2008-05-02
Try [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4178093#post4178093](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4178093#post4178093)

---

### Post by cracker on 2008-05-02
That's one of the posts I linked to, but that's alright.

I got a working script, meaning if I run the script manually, such as this, it works:
```

ryan@XPS:~$ sudo /bin/lcdbright.sh up
ryan@XPS:~$ sudo /bin/lcdbright.sh down

```
This script, which is only slightly modified from that post, adjusts the brightness by one measurement when I run the command manually. However, when I press the fn+ keys, it still behaves oddly. It adjusts by about 40% now, instead of 60%, and when I get to about 20% and turn the brightness down, it goes up, then down to the minimum. Something else is grabbing the keys and causing this not to work.

Update: I added a delay to the script, sleep 5, before it makes the adjustment, and found that the script is being executed, but my screen brightness is being adjusted erratically before the script causes any effect. Something else is hooking on, and I have no idea what it is. I also noticed that the script doesn't actually take any action for quite a while, meaning that whatever is hooking on prevents the script from being executed until it's done.

---

### Post by seicean on 2008-05-03
I'm kinda new in this area and I experienced the same problem. First of all, my brightness adjustment keys don't work at all. I use a FJC Amilo Pro V3515, celeron 1.8, 2 gb ram, chrome 256 mb video. 

i tried the "sudo /bin/lcdbright.sh up" in 8.04 and there is no change. I read all the forums and tried all the posibilities. The thing is, my screen brightness is at the lowest limit. Can anyone help ?

Thanks

---

### Post by cracker on 2008-05-03
seicean: That script doesn't just exist, you have to create it. See the threads linked to earlier up in the thread. When I boot up that machine a little later, I'll post my script.

---

### Post by dwasifar on 2008-08-21
Blacklisting the video worked for me without any side effects that I've seen so far.

If it matters, my machine has the Nvidia video, not the Intel.

---

### Post by lviggiani on 2008-11-03
Blacklisting video is the solution for Hardy, however DO NOT use for Intepid 8.10!

:)

---

