---
title: "Ubuntu as an OS on a tablet pc?"
date: 2009-04-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by planegenius on 2009-04-14
A while ago we bought my dad a toshiba tablet pc.  He loved it, but then it ran into some technical issues.  Then we made a big mistake.  We took it to Best Buy and their geek squad lost the windows os software.  Long story short, there is a perfectly good tablet pc in my closet that has no os.

So how about Ubuntu?

My question is will the touch screen still work with Ubuntu? We bought one with a flip screen, so it can still be used like a regular laptop, but it would be awesome if we could use the touch screen and pen! Is this possible with Ubuntu or any other Linux distribution?

Thanks

pg

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-14
Hi planegenius,

Sure its doable.  Question is what model toshiba?  Look to the LaptopTestingTeam wiki to see if anyone has a report on installing Ubuntu on it.

Also good idea to know what kind of digitizer it has.  Most likely Wacom.  Older models were usually serial, newer ones can have a usb connection to the digitizer.  In linuxwacom terms touch is when you can use the tablet with your finger in addition to the stylus.

---

### Post by planegenius on 2009-04-14
It is a Toshiba Portege.

I just installed Ubuntu on it now, and it works.  Luckily, like I said, you can flip it and use the mouse and keyboard, because the tablet touchscreen shows an image but doesn't respond to touch.

How do I find out what kind of digitizer it has?

Thanks

pg

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-14
Hi planegenius,

What model Toshiba Portege?  If you don't have a manual try the toshiba site.  Is there a model number on a plate on the bottom of the laptop?

---

### Post by planegenius on 2009-04-14
I'm sorry, its a Toshiba Portege M205-S810.

I did a Google and found these instructions-

[http://www.intilinux.com/howto/531/toshiba-portege-m200m205-tablets-on-ubuntu/](http://www.intilinux.com/howto/531/toshiba-portege-m200m205-tablets-on-ubuntu/)

I'm not very experienced.  Do these instructions look like they'll do the job? (and not damage anything?)

Right now, I'm installing updates, and will try these instructions and report back.

I appreciate your help.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-14
Hi planegenius,

That's one of the links I have.  It's been a while since I looked at it.  I don't really know how good it is.

What version of Ubuntu are you installing?  After you get everything updated we can proceed.

---

### Post by planegenius on 2009-04-14
Ubuntu 8.10 is installed and updated.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-15
OK, now go to:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom)

Under Ubuntu 8.10 you'll see i386 deb.s (you don't have AMD, right?).  Those are Debian packages of linuxwacom 0.8.1-6 (8.10 has 0.8.1-4).  Download both i386 deb.s onto your desktop and double click them to install.

Also check out the Wacom wiki.  Lot's of useful stuff there.

You have a stylus with an eraser right?  Are there buttons on your stylus?  How many?

After you install the drivers and wacom-tools (they have to be the same version) we'll work on your xorg.conf.  It is in /etc/X11.  So use Places (nautilus) to navigate there (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) and copy it.  Use the "#" on the top of the post box (if you don't see it Go Advance).  Two code brackets will appear.  Click in the middle and paste your xorg.conf.  This will box it.

---

### Post by planegenius on 2009-04-15
Ok, both of the wacom tools are installed.  

Looking at the stylus, it does have an eraser and one button on the side.

Here you go-

Thanks so much!

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-15
Hi planegenius,

To edit xorg.conf you need to be root in a terminal.  If you type "sudo" it asks for your password and then you're root.  Since you will want to use a graphical editor (gedit-gnome editer) you'll want to use the graphical version of sudo which is "gksudo".  Just copy and paste it in a terminal:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
You have to be careful with xorg.conf so first back it up.  You use the copy (cp) command:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/my_xorg.bak
```
or whatever you want to name it.  To restore it:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/my_xorg.bak /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Be sure to carefully compare the new xorg.conf to the old and note the changes.  Then you may need to reboot and restart X a few times.  To restart X use "ctrl-alt-back space".

After the Wacom is functioning to calibrate it go to Section 3 here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949)

Then to rotate your screen from laptop to tablet mode go to here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6274392#post6274392](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6274392#post6274392)  Method 1 or 3 should work for you.

---

### Post by planegenius on 2009-04-16
SOLVED!

It all works, and my dad was so happy to get his computer back.  He absolutely loves Ubuntu too.  Couldn't have done it w/o Favux, kudos to you sir and thanks again for your help!

Now, off to find more computers to install Ubuntu on... :cool:

pg

---

