---
title: "9.10 and floppy"
date: 2010-03-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mark bower on 2010-03-24
I cannot get 9.10 to access my internal floppy.  I believe 9.04 accessed O.K., but not sure. I have tried a lot of the suggestions, may have even mucked things up a bit.  

First, Places sees the floppy.  If I click on it, I get a lite, but nothing happens. I assume this is a good sign?

Second, i tried a number of the suggestion such as,
sudo mkdir /floppy
sudo mount /dev/fd0 /floppy -t vfat
cd /floppy
ls  -and i could see all the files.  but i tried it a second time, and it would not work.

The /etc/fstab file has the line:
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec, utf8 0  0

Suggestions?

mark

---

### Post by Tom.Gee on 2010-03-24
Are you sure your floppy drive works?  Try booting from a floppy to be sure.  A Memtest floppy or a bootdisk downloaded off of Bootdisk.com should be adequate to this task.  Of course, to make one, you need a working floppy...  ;)

---

### Post by mark bower on 2010-03-24
yes, drive is good.  no problem under windows, and please note my comment in 1st post that I had some success at terminal, just did not repeat.

---

### Post by Jeff Root on 2010-03-24
I have the exact same problem.
 
New self-built desktop, Karmic Koala (9.10).
 
Booting the computer to MS-DOS from a floppy works fine,
and I can copy files between floppies and a FAT hard disk
in DOS just fine.  But when I try to access a floppy from
Ubuntu, I get the message: "Unable to mount location
No media in the drive".
 
I tried a slight modification of what I found suggested
elsewhere:
 
sudo mount -t vfat /dev/fd0 /media
 
The command was accepted without error message, and the
floppy was mounted according to a plain "mount" command
(which returns the list of mounted filesystems), but
double clicking on the floppy under Places still gives
the error that there is no media.
 
I'm a Linux newbie.  After giving the command to mount
the floppy in a terminal window, how do I try to access
it from that same terminal window, rather than exiting
the terminal and using the GUI?
 
   -- Jeff, in Minneapolis

---

### Post by mark bower on 2010-03-24
I got it working with another post I found!

Try: 
mount /media/floppy0.  

It puts the floppy icon on the desk top and I can access my files via OpenOffice spreadsheet.  All works as it should.  Wow, feels good to have the floppy working.

I checked this out on another computer and it takes on the one terminal command line.

mark

---

### Post by mark bower on 2010-03-25
O.k.  I hope the one terminal line works for others to access the floppy.  But, I do not know how set the line up on boot.  So, how does one make a line which is read on boot and is the equivalent of:
               mount /media/floppy0

mark

---

### Post by mark bower on 2010-03-25
To repeat, the floppy does not mount during boot, but,

1) mount /media/floppy0  - mounts the floppy and all works as it should for the session.  

2) /etc/fstab has the following entry:
/dev/fd0  /media/floppy0  auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0  0

What files need to be changed and to what in order for the floppy to automatically mount in the boot process?

mark

---

### Post by Jeff Root on 2010-03-25
Mark,
 
Your solution worked for me, too.  I haven't played with
it yet to test its limits and variations.
 
I wanted to have the floppy mount at boot, also, but that
might be impossible.  A floppy needs to be in the drive in
order to mount it.  If the floppy is in the drive at boot,
and the BIOS is set to boot from floppy, then you might
have a problem.  But maybe not.  The BIOS might ignore the
floppy if it doesn't have an OS, and go on to boot from
the hard disk.  Or you may have set the BIOS to not boot
from floppy.
 
It looks like changing the floppy might mean unmounting
and remounting, every time.  Now I'll go experimenting...
 
   -- Jeff, in Minneapolis

---

### Post by norseman-has-a-laptop on 2010-03-25
wait you still use floppys?

---

### Post by mark bower on 2010-03-25
@ Jeff

It gets a little better.  You can create a floppy icon on the desktop to access the drive. Rt-click desktop, select launcher and this is what i entered:
Type:  App in terminal
Name:  floppy
Cmd:   mount /media/floppy
Comment:  blank

Now put a disk in and click on the icon - voila.

However, still not what we want.  Someone will eventually see this post and tell us how to automate "the mount" at boot time, like my internal iomega:  After boot, no iomega shows.  But I insert a disk in the drive, the disk is detected, an icon is placed on the desk top, nautilus opens showing the files on disk, and Places now shows the iomega.

I removed boot from floppy in the bios, and no help whether booting with a disk in the drive or not.

mark

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-03-25
@mark bower, nothing to add to mounting floppies in Karmic, but I have good news for you. It works out of the box in Lucid.

> **norseman-has-a-laptop said:**
> wait you still use floppys?

Is that a problem? :p I've just had a rummage through my collection of flopp[SIZE=4]ie[/SIZE]s to test in Lucid and I found a Windows 95 startup disc! I wonder if I could sell it to a museum. :)

---

### Post by mark bower on 2010-03-25
coffeecat, thanks.  grt, i may not move to lucid, but at least on my next upgrade the problem may not be there.  i'll probably still bump this a few times to try and get the solution(because I am curious), but my last post provides the work around that is practical enuf for me based on my limited use of floppies.

mark

---

### Post by and003 on 2010-08-21
If anyone here still has floppy mounting issues, try this:
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/util-linux/+question/120571](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/util-linux/+question/120571)

---

