---
title: "Screen Resolution Problem"
date: 2010-09-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mcuk2010 on 2010-09-17
Hi Folks
 
Just Installed the latest version of Ubuntu Netbook on my Toshiba Portege 7200 and the screen resolution is set to 800x600. The OS is not recognising the fact the laptop can do 1024x768.
 
I've been searching the net for a few hours to fix the problem and I'm not getting anywhere.
 
The fix to the problem is to add the info below to the Xorg.conf file.
 
This file does not seem to exsist on the latest version and if I create it manually it does not work.
 
Can someone please advice on how to fix the problem.
 
 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
 
Section "Device"
Identifier "Trident Microsystems Cyber 9540 (rev 52)"
Driver "trident"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
 
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Integtrated LCD"
HorizSync 28-90
VertRefresh 43-85
#Modeline "1024x768_60.00" 63.50 1024 1072 1176 1328 768 771 775 798 -hsync +vsync
#Option "PreferredMode" "1024x768_60.00"
EndSection
 
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "VGA-0" 
Option "Ignore" "true"
EndSection
 
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen 1"
Monitor "Integtrated LCD"
Device "Trident Microsystems Cyber 9540 (rev 52)"
EndSection

---

