---
title: "tx1000... nvidia overheat?"
date: 2008-06-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by beavermml on 2008-06-28
hi...

i just wanted to know...

do 105 celcius of nvidia 6150 is normal when playing movie??/

it is too hot for me..

is there are any solutions regarding this issue? or can i lower the gpu clock ( down clocking? )..

please help me..

im running hardy.. and everythings works fine except rotate button and fingerprint sensor.

---

### Post by enboig on 2008-06-29
I have the same problem as you (but I tested using glxgears, not a movie). I am asking at nvidia forums ([http://forums.nvidia.com/index.php?showtopic=71168&st=0&p=402156&#entry402156);](http://forums.nvidia.com/index.php?showtopic=71168&st=0&p=402156&#entry402156);) if I find something interesting, I will tell you; if you find something, please post here so I and other people can solve the problem also.

See you

---

### Post by tperea on 2009-08-13
I have the same problem (nVidia overheating a Pavillion tx1000, with either Vista or Ubuntu). What I am doing so far is running Ubuntu with the processor at the lowest speed (using CPU frequency scaling monitor). The nVidia temperature is about 71 Celsius with the lowest processor rate. Not sure if 71 Celsius is good enough.

I also updated the BIOS (from hp.com) and the nVidia driver (version 180).

I am wondering if other alternative options (deactivating nVidia, etc.) may be more convenient. Any advice about this issue?

---

### Post by Ranax on 2009-08-13
I'm not sure about integrated graphics like yours, but my nVidia card in my desktop will regularly push 90C unless I run the fan at 100% with [NVCLOCK](http://www.linuxhardware.org/nvclock/) which cools it to about 60C. I am not sure if you can do that with your laptop though! :(

---

