---
title: "Monitor Refresh Rate"
date: 2008-05-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dannyb37 on 2008-05-14
I'm using a AL1916W monitor with Ubuntu, Nvidia drivers installed but I cannot change the refresh rate to 60Hz it remains constantly on 50 and 51 in the screen resolution panel. Does anyone know what I can do?

This is using the latest ubuntu.

Thanks

- Daniel

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-05-14
What's the output from this?:
```
xrandr -q
```
I'm going to guess your screen is a 19" widescreen, so I'll use 1440x900 as an example.
```
sudo xrandr -r 60 -s 1440x900
```

---

### Post by dannyb37 on 2008-05-14
Hi;

It outputs this..

```
~$ xrandr -q
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 1440 x 900, maximum 1440 x 900
default connected 1440x900+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1440x900       50.0*    51.0  
   1280x800       52.0  
   1280x768       53.0  
   1152x864       54.0  
   1024x768       55.0     56.0     57.0  
   960x600        58.0  
   840x525        59.0  
   832x624        60.0  
   800x600        61.0     62.0     63.0     64.0     65.0     66.0  
   800x512        67.0  
   720x450        68.0  
   700x525        69.0     70.0     71.0  
   640x512        72.0     73.0  
   640x480        74.0     75.0     76.0     77.0  
   640x400        78.0  
   640x384        79.0  
   576x432        80.0  
   512x384        81.0     82.0     83.0  
   416x312        84.0  
   400x300        85.0     86.0     87.0     88.0  
   320x240        89.0     90.0     91.0  

```

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-05-14
Ok. We'll have to generate a mode line and put it in the Monitor section of your xorg.conf  Can you post what your current xorg.conf looks like *gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf*

We may have to do something like this:
```
cvt -v 1440 900 60.0Hz
```

---

### Post by dannyb37 on 2008-05-14
Thanks for your help so far! :) My xorg.conf looks like this

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
    Gamma           0.746
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer AL1916W"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Gamma           0.75
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "1440x900_60 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1440x900_60 +0+0; 1440x900_60_0 +0+0"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-05-14
Ok. Copy the output from the cvt command into your Monitor section, but change the '_' to a '@'
```
cvt -v 1440 900 60.0Hz
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

And modify your Screen section:
```
Section "Screen"
    [B]SubSection "Display"
		Modes    "1440x900@60"
    EndSubSection[/B]
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by darussian12 on 2008-05-14
finally got back to giving ubuntu a try after gutsy was a PITA getting going on my HP laptop but hardy has been smooth sailing so far but havent tried using wireless yet and some other stuff but my display is doing the same thing as the original poster...i cant change the refresh rate from 50 even though i know it was/should be 60 and my screen is also 1440x900. so ill just see what works for the poster but is it that big a deal having a wrong refresh rate? i havent noticed a major noticable issue with it just would be nice to get ubuntu running top notch. heres my info if needed but ill also see how the poster gets his working correct.

> darussian12@darussian12-laptop:~$ xrandr -q
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 1440 x 900, maximum 1440 x 900
default connected 1440x900+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1440x900       50.0* 
   1280x800       51.0  
   1280x768       52.0  
   1024x768       53.0  
   840x525        54.0  
   800x600        55.0     56.0  
   800x512        57.0  
   720x450        58.0  
   640x512        59.0  
   640x480        60.0     61.0  
   640x400        62.0  
   640x384        63.0  
   512x384        64.0  
   400x300        65.0  
   320x240        66.0  
darussian12@darussian12-laptop:~$ 

and the xorg looks like so, so do i just paste "cvt -v 1440 900 60.0Hz" anywhere in the monitor section which only has 1 line of data at the moment?...

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-05-14
darussian, you need to run the cvt command from a terminal and use the mode line, like so:
```
dan@harvest:/boot/grub$ cvt -v 1440 900 60.0Hz
# 1440x900 59.89 Hz (CVT 1.30MA) hsync: 55.93 kHz; pclk: 106.50 MHz
**Modeline "1440x900_60.00"  106.50  1440 1528 1672 1904  900 903 909 934 -hsync +vsync**
```

Remember to change the '_' ---> '@'

---

### Post by dannyb37 on 2008-05-14
I don't understand what you mean but "using the mode line"?

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-05-14
Is this an nvidia card?  If so, it doesn't usually report the correct refresh rates.  You could start a terminal and type:

```

nvidia-settings -q RefreshRate

```

Edit:
Oh, it's obviously an nvidia card after looking at the xorg conf.

---

### Post by dannyb37 on 2008-05-14
```
  Attribute 'RefreshRate' (daniel-desktop:0.0; display device: DFP-0): 59.89
  Hz.
    'RefreshRate' is an integer attribute.
    'RefreshRate' is a read-only attribute.
    'RefreshRate' is display device specific.
    'RefreshRate' can use the following target types: X Screen, GPU.


```
??

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-14
I've got the same monitor and have the same problem. I wouldnt use anything other than nvidia-settings to configure it.

Here's how to get the correct refresh rate:

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

Then in the configuration page, choose advanced and set the refresh rate to 60 (2). Apply and merge the settings into your xorg.conf and everything should be good. :D

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-05-14
That seems correct.  It doesn't report as exactly 60Hz on my machine either.  One last thing you'll have to do because of the improper detection is go to System->Preferences->Advanced Desktop Effects Settings->General Options->Display Settings and uncheck, "Detect Refresh Rate" and then manually move the Refresh Rate slider to 60.

Edit:
If you don't have those menu options first try:

```

sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager

```

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-05-14
daniel,
run the cvt command in a terminal and copy its mode line output into the monitor section.
```
dan@harvest:/boot/grub$ cvt -v 1440 900 60.0Hz
# 1440x900 59.89 Hz (CVT 1.30MA) hsync: 55.93 kHz; pclk: 106.50 MHz
**Modeline "1440x900_60.00"  106.50  1440 1528 1672 1904  900 903 909 934 -hsync +vsync**
```

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-14
I have found the the monitors actual refresh rate was 59.89 or something weird like that. I think i found that out through Windows if i remember right.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-05-14
> **EXCiD3 said:**
> I have found the the monitors actual refresh rate was 59.79 or something weird like that. I think i found that out through Windows if i remember right.
Yes, the cvt command outputs this information

---

### Post by darussian12 on 2008-05-15
"sudo nvidia-settings" 

i get..

> darussian12@darussian12-laptop:~$ sudo nvidia-settings
sudo: nvidia-settings: command not found

im using whatever driver is in the restricted drivers manager and no other mods. im going to try the copy/paste into xorg what Temüjin said and see what i end up breaking.

*edit holy crap i edited the xorg file with the terminal output and still didnt see option to go to 60hz so rebooted and after reboot i got bios/DOS equivelent errors and eventually booted into safe graphics mode and looking all jacked up...heres all i did to the xorg file for the ONLY section i changed if anyone can help...

> Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Modeline "1440x900@60.00"  106.50  1440 1528 1672 1904  900 903 909 934 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-15
try installing nvidia-settings since its apparently not installed

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by darussian12 on 2008-05-15
im pretty sure im getting myself into deeper ***** then i began with. i did the nvidia settings install and got sucessfull/no error in terminal but opening i got message couldnt be found so figured i might need to reboot. i rebooted and im still getting the bios/bootup errors and end up having to go into low graphics mode. and when i do the nvidia settings command i get the attached screenshot. what the heck am i doing wrong?


*edit...if it makes a diff when i did the sudo command for what the error message tells me to do i get this...

> darussian12@darussian12-laptop:~$ sudo nvidia-xconfig

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

darussian12@darussian12-laptop:~$ 

my head is about to explode :-)

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-15
Check to see if you have the drivers installed by going into System->Hardware Drivers. Then if its not enabled, try instaling it again and/or changing the driver in /etc/X11/xorg.conf to "nvidia".

You can use the nv driver temporarily for a good screen resolution while you work on things by using Driver "nv" in xorg.conf until you get the nvidia driver working correctly.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-05-15
darussian12, you want to put the mode line in the **MONITOR** section of your xorg.conf

---

### Post by darussian12 on 2008-05-15
i just rebooted after i got the message in the last screen shot since im used to doing it in windows world and after reboot and selecting ubuntu in grub i saw the nvidia logo and my resolution is now fine w/o goofy low graphics or boot up bios errors. but i was still stuck with 50hz in the Ubuntu resolution settings and could not change it but the nvidia command excid posted worked wonders cause i could change it there and after saving Ubuntu tells me im running at 67hz even though the nvidia panel says im at 60 :-)...ohhh Linux

---

### Post by darussian12 on 2008-05-15
> arussian12, you want to put the mode line in the MONITOR section of your xorg.conf 

after i have correct resolution now after doing those nvidia commands in terminal my xorg section is completely different i dont even have a "monitor" section anymore. i assume it has something to do with that backup message i got in the screenshot but the xorf has a lot more info now. my only prob now is after doing the last couple various commands in the last few posts i cant turn off the retarded trackpad tapping. it was off before hand and it used to be accessable under system-->prefrences-->mouse and there was a tapping section but now its not even there...i fix one thing and make another go wrong. is there a way to turn trackpad tapping since i dont have it accessable in the mouse menu anymore?

---

