---
title: "Ubuntu 11.04: CD-rom stopped working"
date: 2011-06-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by amalgamas on 2011-06-16
This has happened on two PC's in my home: 1) HP Probook 4720 (64bit ubuntu) and 2) Toshiba portege r500 (64bit ubuntu).  I have googled and checked but cannot find any solution.

Please help!

Data from the HP:
```
sudo lshw -C disk
..................
 *-cdrom
       description: DVD-RAM writer
       product: DVD RW AD-7586H
       vendor: hp
       physical id: 1
       bus info: scsi@1:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/cdrom
       logical name: /dev/cdrw
       logical name: /dev/dvd
       logical name: /dev/dvdrw
       logical name: /dev/scd0
       logical name: /dev/sr0
       version: KH04
       capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r dvd-ram
       configuration: ansiversion=5 status=ready
     *-medium
          physical id: 0
          logical name: /dev/cdrom

```70-persistent-cd.rules:
[HTML]# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_cd_rules
# program, run by the cd-aliases-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and set the $GENERATED variable.

# hp_DVD_RW_AD-7586H (pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-1:0:0:0)
SUBSYSTEM=="block", ENV{ID_CDROM}=="?*", ENV{ID_PATH}=="pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-1:0:0:0", SYMLINK+="cdrom", ENV{GENERATED}="1"
SUBSYSTEM=="block", ENV{ID_CDROM}=="?*", ENV{ID_PATH}=="pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-1:0:0:0", SYMLINK+="cdrw", ENV{GENERATED}="1"
SUBSYSTEM=="block", ENV{ID_CDROM}=="?*", ENV{ID_PATH}=="pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-1:0:0:0", SYMLINK+="dvd", ENV{GENERATED}="1"
SUBSYSTEM=="block", ENV{ID_CDROM}=="?*", ENV{ID_PATH}=="pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-1:0:0:0", SYMLINK+="dvdrw", ENV{GENERATED}="1"

# Digital_Camera (pci-0000:00:1d.0-usb-0:1.2:1.0-scsi-0:0:0:1)
SUBSYSTEM=="block", ENV{ID_CDROM}=="?*", ENV{ID_SERIAL}=="SAMSUNG_Digital_Camera_000000000001-0:1", SYMLINK+="cdrom1", ENV{GENERATED}="1"
[/HTML]

---

### Post by amalgamas on 2011-06-17
Nobody replying on this one? -disappointing...

I found a solution after more googling.  I followed [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=801771](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=801771) #4, but only did the delete symlink thing. This fixed the problem.

That raises the question of why this happened at all.  I think the problem started when I tried to rip a CD that was given to me from a friend.  It is a standard copy of a audio CD made on a windows PC.  In windows (my own PC, not the one the CD was made on) the CD plays without problems and I see the normal 1 kb .cda files.

In ubuntu it wont play, I may or may not see some .waw-files and then the CD drive stops working.

Now I need an explanation for this

(marked as SOLVED)

---

