---
title: "[SOLVED] HowTo change screen resolutions on old ATI card 8.10 Intrerip"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by grahams on 2008-11-02
If you have an old ATI controller such the Mobility M7 LW Radeon Mobility 7500] in my Compaq n610c this will allow you to change screen resolution to all those supported by the graphics cards.


sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
sudo vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf
add the following to xorg.conf in the device section

Option "NoDDC"

restart X (cntrl, alt, backspace)

xorg.conf should look like this

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
        Option "NoDDC"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"

---

### Post by buggsy2 on 2008-11-10
> **grahams said:**
> If you have an old ATI controller such the Mobility M7 LW Radeon Mobility 7500] in my Compaq n610c this will allow you to change screen resolution to all those supported by the graphics cards.


sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
sudo vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf
add the following to xorg.conf in the device section

Option "NoDDC"

restart X (cntrl, alt, backspace)


OK, I did that...but how do I now change screen resolution? (Noob to xubuntu 8.10; old compaq presario 1800)

---

### Post by grahams on 2008-11-11
Now you should be able to change the screen resolution to all available settings using:

System > Preferences > Screen Resolution 

This is how you can do it with ubuntu, not sure if its the same with xunbuntu.

---

### Post by buggsy2 on 2008-11-13
> **grahams said:**
> Now you should be able to change the screen resolution to all available settings using:

System > Preferences > Screen Resolution 

This is how you can do it with ubuntu, not sure if its the same with xunbuntu.

xunbuntu doesn't have "Preferences", and I can't figure out where the screen resolution might be set from the gui.  What command(s) and config files would do this?  I can follow up on my own with a hint:confused:
Edit: Finally found it in xubuntu: 
Applications->Settings->Settings Manager->Display
However, the two options are Default and 640x640; Default I think is 800x600.  I know the screen can do better under Windows so I think some config file needs better information. Can someone provide a hint as to where to start?

---

### Post by ephestione on 2009-07-04
In case you're still looking to enable XGA resolution in ubuntu for presario 1800, I just made this guide, [http://www.ephestione.it/nfopresario1800ubuntuxga.php](http://www.ephestione.it/nfopresario1800ubuntuxga.php)

---

