---
title: "miserable 1366x768 resolution when it should be 1920x1080"
date: 2011-01-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by giants_fan on 2011-01-05
Hi,

Hopefully somebody can help...

I have a Dell E6510 (which has a native resolution of 1920x1080), but for some reason, the maximum I can do is 1366x768.  I'm using the proprietary nvidia drivers (version 260.19.06) on Ubuntu 10.10--a brand new install.

Here is my xorg.conf file.  It's pretty basic, I think:


[HTML]# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 260.19.06  (buildmeister@builder101)  Mon Sep 13 04:59:45 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

[/HTML]



:confused:


Any ideas?

Thanks,
Thomas

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-01-05
Have you tried using nvidia-settings yo set a different resolution? Just open it with admin privileges, so it can write to the config file.

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by giants_fan on 2011-01-06
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Have you tried using nvidia-settings yo set a different resolution? Just open it with admin privileges, so it can write to the config file.

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

The highest resolution nvidia-settings gives me is the 1366x768.  Is there any way to add 1920x1080 to this list?

'Detect Displays' doesn't help any.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-01-06
Are you connected by VGA ?

What does the xorg log file say ?
Especially about EDID DDC mode validating etc...

---

### Post by giants_fan on 2011-01-06
Thanks all, but is longer an issue.  Apparently, you can get the E6510 with either a 1920x1080 or a 1366x768 display--and guess what--I have the latter.  :mad:

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-01-06
> **giants_fan said:**
> Thanks all, but is longer an issue.  Apparently, you can get the E6510 with either a 1920x1080 or a 1366x768 display--and guess what--I have the latter.  :mad:

Thanks for updating. I was just going to suggest messing with xorg.conf, but no need for that now.

---

