---
title: "9.10 bluetooth adapter doesn't"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by watchthestars on 2009-11-06
The adapter in question is a Broadcom BCM4312 and carries both the wifi and bluetooth chips. After the Karmic install the bluetooth adapter seemed to work, but only until I downloaded and installed the correct wifi drivers using the hardware drivers gui. Has anyone had any success getting both to function?

---

### Post by alidrus2000 on 2009-11-08
I'm using the same bluetooth adapter on an old Compaq laptop. It seemed to work for a while after I installed blueman on Xubuntu 9.10 but after rebooting, it failed saying that bluez daemon was not running. /etc/init.d/bluez-utils does not seem to exist although the bluez-utils package is installed.

---

### Post by madbbb on 2009-11-11
> **watchthestars said:**
> The adapter in question is a Broadcom BCM4312 and carries both the wifi and bluetooth chips. After the Karmic install the bluetooth adapter seemed to work, but only until I downloaded and installed the correct wifi drivers using the hardware drivers gui. Has anyone had any success getting both to function?

i had same problem with sta and b43 wireless driver. ndiswrapper driver works fine with bluetooth!

---

### Post by watchthestars on 2009-11-15
> **madbbb said:**
> i had same problem with sta and b43 wireless driver. ndiswrapper driver works fine with bluetooth!

I tried ndiswrapper a few evenings ago and didn't have any luck... I didn't spend much time on it, however.

Today is a different story. I performed a package update, changed my bluetooth manager from bluez back to gnome-bluetooth, rebooted and everything works as it should. Even the rf kill switch is stopping and starting bt and wifi as it should. :P:P

---

### Post by watchthestars on 2009-11-18
> **watchthestars said:**
> I tried ndiswrapper a few evenings ago and didn't have any luck... I didn't spend much time on it, however.

Today is a different story. I performed a package update, changed my bluetooth manager from bluez back to gnome-bluetooth, rebooted and everything works as it should. Even the rf kill switch is stopping and starting bt and wifi as it should. :P:P

Just a follow up. Ndiswrapper WAS totally responsible to fixing this issue. Today I removed it with Synapitc and lost my wifi. Re-installing got everything back to normal. Thanks madbbb!

---

### Post by jlindbergh on 2009-11-19
Hi!
I think I'm having the exact same problem here. An HP 311 Mini (great machine btw..) with a fresh Karmic install. I installed the Broadcom STA drivers from the Hardware Drivers menu. Wi-Fi works great except for some spamming of "TKIP: RX tkey->key_idx=2 frame keyidx=1 priv=..."-messages in the syslog when connected to some networks.

Anyway, I'm interested in getting bluetooth working too. Right now the bluetooth applet is showing in the top panel, but it doesn't seem to be active, and I can't turn it on. When I click on preferences I get a window with a big button saying Turn On Bluetooth. I click it and it greys out and nothing seems to happen.

I'm reading this thread trying to figure out exactly what you did, watchthestars, but I don't really follow you. Are you using the proprietary linux drivers or did you uninstall those and download windows drivers directly from Broadcom and install them using ndisgtk or something? 

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by watchthestars on 2009-11-19
I downloaded ndiswrapper (and all related packages) and enabled the Windows driver found on HP's website. After a reboot everything worked as intended. 
 
What is happening to you with the bluetooth applet is exactly what I experienced before switching the wifi driver up. Now bt, wifi and the rf kill switch work fine.
 
Curiously, and I hope this is not related, I've noticed that the mini now refuses to sleep when I close the lid. Manually putting it to sleep using the power menu or fn+f1 works just fine.

---

### Post by jlindbergh on 2009-11-20
Hi again!
Thanks for the clarification, it works flawlessly now! I'm not sure about the suspend function though, I usually want to do that manually anyway. 

...although now when I'm testing it, it only suspends for real when selecting suspend through the Shutdown Menu. It does not work when setting it to suspend on lid close, or when using the fn-F1/moon (XF86Sleep) button it blacks the screen but does not sleep/suspend for real.

I know that suspend through Shutdown Menu worked with the proprietary linux drivers, but I didn't test any of the other methods so I can't say if things have changed.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by jlindbergh on 2009-11-24
Unfortunately I have to take back that thing about it working flawlessly.
When I press the wifi-switch, the bluetooth icon goes away immediately and seems to deactivate as it should. But wifi behaves quite odd: 
1. It disconnects, but only to start searching new networks right away. 
2. When it finds the network I was connected to before pressing the wifi-switch, it asks for the password.
3. I type in the correct password, but it still fails to connect.
repeat from step 1.

As soon as I turn the switch on again it connects to the network, without me having to type the password. (as it should, since the password is saved in my keyring)

Is this just for me?

---

### Post by dev189 on 2009-12-02
Hi
I have the same problem!

As I installed the Broadcom STA driver (wifi is ok) the bluetooth adapter stops working.

I had no luck with ndiswrapper too, since it refuses to connect using the WPA.

The bluetooth adapter however sometimes resumes to work.
In this situation I noticed also that the log of bluetooth-applet changes:

when the bluetooth is not working the output is 

** Message: Reading of RFKILL events failed
** Message: killswitches state 3

while when the bluetooth is on this state is 1.

I think the problem is in the rfkill managment: it seems that the bluetooth adapter considers
the switch always off or that the driver prevents to read its state.

I don't know if it's possible to bypass rfkill....

---

### Post by LiquidSky on 2009-12-08
Hello everyone,

     I have the BCM4312 wireless card with the built in Bluetooth adapter.  I have a HP MINI 110 -1100CP with 2GB ram, Broadcom Crystal HD decoder, 160GB HDD, HD scrren,  and running the most recent version of Ubuntu 9.10.  I had one heck of a time getting my wireless card to work.  After many hours of reading I fixed it.  It now works fine.  I am now having trouble with my Bluetooth.  Once I installed the driver for the wireless card (using the broadcom STA driver), the bluetooth does not want to work.  The Bluetooth applet on the top menu bar appears shaded out.  When I right click on the applet the first option is to "turn on Bluetooth"  Which I click and nothing happens.  All other options are greyed out besides "local services" and "about".

     I am a total noob to Ubuntu and Linux in general.  I fixed my wireless card problems by copy and pasting a code in my terminal.  My question is, is there a code I can input into my terminal that will fix my Bluetooth?  I have read about the Ndiswrapper.  I installed the package and tried to download the driver for the wireless card from HP but it wasent an .inf file.  I have the BCM4312 Wireless card with built in Bluetooth adapter.  If anyone can help me out with this it would be greatly appreciated.  

     Since I am a noob a step by step walk through would be a plus.  Thanks in advance for all your help!

---

### Post by gfe on 2009-12-12
I'm having the same problem with the Dell 10v, which uses the same wireless/Bluetooth card after installing Karmic. The wireless worked fine after installing the driver using Synaptic.

---

### Post by primes2h on 2009-12-22
Hello,
I have openend a bug about this issue.
Please change status to "Confirmed" and then click on "I'm also affected by this bug".
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/499445](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/499445)

Thank you.

---

### Post by airtonix on 2010-02-05
> **watchthestars said:**
> I downloaded ndiswrapper (and all related packages) and enabled the Windows driver found on HP's website. After a reboot everything worked as intended. 
 
What is happening to you with the bluetooth applet is exactly what I experienced before switching the wifi driver up. Now bt, wifi and the rf kill switch work fine.
 
Curiously, and I hope this is not related, I've noticed that the mini now refuses to sleep when I close the lid. Manually putting it to sleep using the power menu or fn+f1 works just fine.

How exactly did you enable the windows drivers?

edit : i found out that the drivers are supplied in a non standard self extracting exe format, so imply having wine isntalled will let you run the exe which just extracts its contents to a place of your choice. No need to have windows installed somwhere.

---

### Post by airtonix on 2010-02-06
I've recently been playing with the hp mini 311 which uses the broadcom 4312 chip (intergrated with bluetooth).

What I've found is that bluetooth and wifi will work with the ndiswrapper setup using the windows xp drivers on the HP site.

Since my mini 311 is of the 1018tu variety, I pulled the broadcom drivers from that page on the HP site.

Since the HP drivers are supplied as an non standard self extracting archvie in .EXE format.

I had to install wine to run it. Upon running it, it simply extracts the contents of itself to a directory of your choice.

At this point I had in front of me various sys and dll files and the inf file that ndiswrapper wants.

Initial experiments are hazy, since I can't be sure of the exact steps i took, however I am currently using a process of : 

boot up > no wifi options in the nm-applet ? then run ndiswrapper and reboot. This makes the wifi and bluetooth available to me. 

At this point the laptop still suspends when the lid closes (i have not tested hibernating via manual selection in the power menuy options)

My last thing to knock over is implementing some sort of temporary on/off of the touchpad while typing...
Initial research has me investigating the use of the fdi hal files as described here : 
# [http://www.ubuntumini.com/2009/09/configure-synaptic-touchpad.html](http://www.ubuntumini.com/2009/09/configure-synaptic-touchpad.html)

---

### Post by airtonix on 2010-03-15
as a follow up : 

[B]reasons to use the b43 drivers : 
[/B]the 4312 card in the hp mini 311 will now do monitor mode and packet injection. but you won't have bluetooth.


[B]Reasons to use the ndiswrapper method : 
[/B]
You'll have working wifi and bluetooth but you won't be able to do monitor mode and packet injection.

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2010-04-27
airtonix - thanks for your diligent work on this. I am also experiencing a conflict between my wifi and my bluetooth dongle, and I am running your test suite to see whether it solves the problem. I have a Broadcom 4322 network card w/ a Cambridge Silicon Radio, Ltd Bluetooth Dongle (HCI mode).

I'll post back with my results.

Edit: Unfortunately, removing the Broadcom STA driver did not help the situation. Perhaps the ndiswrapper package may.

---

