---
title: "9.04 HDMI Audio"
date: 2009-05-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Locke on 2009-05-12
First off, let me just say that i have run the command ```
speaker-test -twav -c6 -Dplug:hdmi
``` and gotten audio to play through hdmi. My problem is now setting my system up to play audio out of the HDMI port, it is still set to play system sounds and such through the audio port on the back.

---

### Post by Dark_Stang on 2009-05-12
Under System > Preferences > Sound. Make sure your playbacks are set to use the HDMI port. I some cases (like mine) there will be several entries named the same thing for different ports, so you may have to try several and run a test.

---

### Post by drockhead on 2009-08-21
Mythbuntu 9.04.... There is no System > Preferences in the application menu.

And on another note, it would be nice if some one could point me in the the direction to how sound is configured.

I got MythTV to work with my HDMI audio by pointing Mythtv directly at the HDMI audio port. Unlike other chipsets, my HDMI audio does not appear as a seperate card. It is just a different port on the same card (output 0,3).
All one would think they needed to do was to change the default sound output in Mythbuntu to use that port. The problem is, there is little to no documentation on how this is done and since the whole "pulse audio" fiasco, there probably never will be.
Just one step closer to giving up on my 3+ year old myth setup and go with something that actually works with out putting days of effort to find one simple litle configuration file that could very well easily be documented.

Cheers,

---

### Post by Raptor Ramjet on 2009-09-25
Hello,

I'm pretty much in the same frustrated boat as you as I've eventually got HDMI audio working in Totem, VLC, mplayer from the command line etc. but *not* in mplayer from the MythTV menus, xine, Flash in Firefox etc. etc.

But you're correct as the "Gnome Audio Properties" dialogue is not on the MythTV menu so to get to it I opened a terminal and typed:

```

gnome-sound-properties

```

This then popped up a dialogue which allowed me to set the default audio output to be "NVidia HDMI" after which Totem now works (previously only VLC was sending sound through HDMI)

Sadly though mplayer still only works when I call it from the command line and and supply "-ao alsa hw=0,3" i.e.

```

mplayer some_file.avi -ao alsa:device=hw 0,3 

```

I should also mention that the first thing I did to get HDMI audio working at all was by first running "alsamixer" and unmuting the "HDMI" output (if it's got a green "00" you're good to go, if not press "m" to unmute it) after which I created "/etc/asound.rc" and wrote the following to it:

```

pcm.!default {
        type hw
        card 0
        device 3
}

```

n.b. use "aplay -l" to find which card & device is your HDMI.

I'll be trying to get it all working again tomorrow (given up again for today) so will update the this thread when (if ?) I manage to sort it out.  And apologies if any of this is wrong as the box is switched off and I'm "tryping" this from memory.

Hope this was of use !

---

### Post by Raptor Ramjet on 2009-09-26
The final part of the puzzle...

Finally what got audio working was for me to edit "/etc/asound.conf" again, comment out the previous entry and add a new line:

```

# 2009/09/22 Try to get HDMI output working.
#pcm.!default {
#	type hw
#	card 0
#	device 3
#}
# 2009/09/23 Try slightly different settings. 
defaults.pcm.device 3

```

After this I went into "gnome-volume-control" and "gnome-sound-properties" and amde sure everything was set to use alsa HDMI.  Sound now works for VLC, Totem and Mplayer.  Sadly still not for MP3 via Myths inbuilt music player but I'll look into that later.

---

### Post by bfrancom on 2011-04-04
This worked for me in Mythbuntu 10.10!!! Thanks.  Even though /etc/asound.rc didn't exist, I just created it as prescribed, and it works!!!

~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 0: ALC662 rev1 Analog [ALC662 rev1 Analog]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 1: ALC662 rev1 Digital [ALC662 rev1 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 3: NVIDIA HDMI [NVIDIA HDMI]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

---

