---
title: "9.10 screen shut down after 5 minutes idle"
date: 2009-11-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by szarywilq on 2009-11-26
Hi,

I have Toshiba Satellite A300. I had 8.10 and 9.04 on it before, and this problem occurs only since I installed 9.10.

In Gnome Power Manager there are options where you can set idle time after which screen will be tuned off. There are diffrent settings for battery and line power source. And these settings worked perfectly on both 8.10 and 9.04. Now, when I have 9.10 -  screen ALWAYS going off after 5minutes idle time, doesn't matter what setting are in GPM - 10 minutes, 30 minutes, Never... still screen is turned off after 5 minutes. Pretty annoying.

Can anybody help? Maybe somebody have same problem?

---

### Post by trevor_e on 2009-11-28
Hi I have a toshiba A215-s7416 and have exactly the same issue with karmic switcing off my screen whatever the settings

---

### Post by Manyette on 2009-11-28
This sounds like a reason for a bug report. My Acer laptop behaves perfectly with Karmic.

---

### Post by szarywilq on 2009-11-29
bump

---

### Post by szarywilq on 2009-12-01
changing setting in Gconf-editor do not work. Still - black screen after 5 minutes.

---

### Post by freddybob on 2009-12-27
Same problem on a Dell 1525 (fresh install).

Did you find a solution?

---

### Post by szarywilq on 2009-12-27
I didn't found anything so far

---

### Post by arubislander on 2009-12-27
Maybe there isn't any solution and you need to do as Manyette suggested and file a bug report.

---

### Post by dspa1972 on 2009-12-30
I had the same issue but solved it by changing the screensaver preferences - a blank screensaver was being automatically activated after 5 minutes idle

---

### Post by u0014 on 2010-01-17
I am having the same problem. Moreover, I don't recall having this issue after I installed lxde which installs xscreensaver, however I have uninstalled xscreensaver and lxde and all its dependencies as best as possibile, but unfortunately when removing this package from Synaptic does not remove dependencies. Would this be part of/or the problem?

I set my screen preferences through gnome-screensaver-preferences to 2 hours but the problem persists.

---

### Post by Itzamna36 on 2010-01-21
I was having the same problem.  Turning off the screensaver did the trick.

---

### Post by Manyette on 2010-01-21
Have you checked the screensaver timeout?

---

