---
title: "8.10 broke HP Deskjet 5440"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by echo314 on 2008-11-02
There was a previous thread that suggested using the newest HPLIP 2.8.9, which I installed. The test page printed correctly right after the installation, but now its back to the gibberish every time. I did try restarting.

---

### Post by echo314 on 2008-11-06
*bump*

I could really use my printer...

---

### Post by echo314 on 2008-11-08
Still here! :)

---

### Post by daverave999 on 2008-11-14
I've just tried to install an HP5440 in work and using the hplip from the HP website (2.8.10) it didn't work, printing out rubbish, one line to a page. Bear in mind this is the first time I have set up an HP printer in linux...

I uninstalled hplip and hpijs in synaptic then rebooted. Plugged in the printer again and it told me I needed hpijs. Unplugged and installed hpijs then plugged the printer back in again. Printed the test page and this time it worked!

Sounds a bit like a Windows-style fix but it appears to have worked for me.

HTH

---

### Post by echo314 on 2008-11-15
I still have the same issue, rebooted my comp, installed the driver, plugged the printer in. Same one line of gibberish.

---

### Post by echo314 on 2008-11-20
Justifiable-4-days-with-no-reply-BUMP

Thanks for your reply Daverave! Too bad it didn't work with me...I remember I tried that once, and I got the TEST page to print...but everything after that regressed to one-lines.

---

### Post by douham on 2008-11-21
I to have experienced all these probs with intrepid. My trusty 5440 has worked flawlessly since Feisty. The version of HPLIP  for Hardy is 2.82 and intrepid is 2.87. My guess is this is a bug with 2.87. w/o introducing all sorts of regressions I am going to try and get the hardy driver and use that for intrepid
Oh and report a BUG

---

### Post by douham on 2008-11-21
> **douham said:**
> I to have experienced all these probs with intrepid. My trusty 5440 has worked flawlessly since Feisty. The version of HPLIP  for Hardy is 2.82 and intrepid is 2.87. My guess is this is a bug with 2.87. w/o introducing all sorts of regressions I am going to try and get the hardy driver and use that for intrepid
Oh and report a BUG

Bug has already been reported and the bug No is;#292023

Some comments adout the bug were that HPLIP 2.8.9 works. Not avaiable directly from HP's site but a google search finds it.

---

### Post by jisaac on 2008-12-13
My Deskjet 5440 works well with HPLIP 2.8.10

Download it here: [http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/gethplip.html](http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/gethplip.html)

Then follow the instructions...

-> When asking you for "Restart or re-plug in your printer", choose "re-plug".

---

### Post by LeslieL on 2009-04-21
The installer keeps telling me I'm missing 6 dependencies but only tells me about gcc - and that's installed. What now?

---

