---
title: "16.04 freeze"
date: 2016-04-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by aykut3 on 2016-04-13
Hello,

I have a problem with my XUBUNTU, its freeze sometimes and i can't do nothing, expect press the power to restart it.
I use before i installed XUBUNTU Win 8.1, it worked without any problems and freeze.

Mostly if I watch streams or videos on Youtube it freeze, but sometimes if I don't use the browser it happened too (for example if I use XAMPP with DBeaver).

My Notebook:

Acer Aspire ES1-311-C82S
(More Infos about it: [http://www.notebookinfo.de/produkte/acer-aspire-es1-311-c82s/nx-mrtev-007/00025475/](http://www.notebookinfo.de/produkte/acer-aspire-es1-311-c82s/nx-mrtev-007/00025475/))

> Linux ACE 4.4.0-18-generic #34-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 6 14:01:02 UTC 2016 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux



Some guys from an other forum guess it coheres with Silvermont from the CPU.

(Im from Germany, sry for my english)

---

### Post by goofprog on 2016-04-13
From my experience, I would check for hardware failure.  The hint that I receive would be mostly on faulty RAM.  Why?  Faulty RAM causes random lock ups, crashes, and kernel panics.

---

### Post by aykut3 on 2016-04-13
How can i check that?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-04-13
By running memtest from the boot menu.

---

### Post by aykut3 on 2016-04-16
I download memtest ([here]("http://www.memtest86.com/downloads/memtest86-usb.tar.gz")) and install it to my usb and boot it later.
I change the CPU setting, to all CPU (4 CPU) from single and start after then the test.

The result of the test was 0 errors, but the freezes i get furthermore.

I don&#8217;t know what to do.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-04-18
Does it also freeze if you leave Xubuntu running for some time without open applications?

---

### Post by kolibri on 2016-06-15
(Second time typing this, lost when system froze- 1st was slightly more detailed)

I also have this problem.  My system will randomly freeze either before or after login

After login:

Under Unity- random freezes

Under Gnome flashback in 2D mode, with any one of the three available drivers, the two Nvidia propriety driver, and the Xorg driver.
Everything freezes, running processes, hard drive access, mouse and keyboard input, REISUB does nothing, short power button press does nothing, hard shutdown required.

Before login:
Mouse and keyboard input fail, although REISUB will work ~25% of the time, and part of the time a short power button press will bring up the shutdown option dialog, but mouse and keyboard input will not complete the dialog, so a hard shutdown is also required.

I get a unity setting daemon error message upon startup.

Dell system diagnostics indicate no hardware problems, specifically, no memory problems.

Any suggestions on how to start troubleshooting this?

Thanks!

---

### Post by kolibri on 2016-06-15
I am also having this problem in Ubuntu 16.04.  Clean install onto 32GB SSD.  Home on HDD.
(3rd time typing this, system froze on me twice).

System freezes either before (10% of the time ) login, or after login.

After login:
System freezes in Unity.
System freezes in Gnome flashback 2D.
Entire system freezes, Atl-PrtScn REISUB does not work, short power button press does not work, hard shutdown required.

Before login:
REISUB works sometimes, other times not.  Short power button press sometimes brings up shutdown dialog, but does not respond to mouse or keyboard input to finish dialog, and hard shutdown is required.

After login, system problem detected dialog opens about 50% of the time, with a unity settings daemon error.

Holding down the shift key during startup does not produce a grub menu to do Memtest.

Del startup diagnostics indicate that all hardware is working, specifically no memory problems.

32 GB memory, and 12GB swap on a HDD partition.  Freeze occurs with swap on and swap off.

Any suggestions for how to trouble shoot this issue?

Thanks!

---

### Post by xen3 on 2016-06-17
The most likely thing is either going to be one of two things:

- something to do with the kernel proper (drivers for your hardware)
- something to do with your graphics card / drivers.

I suspect it is going to be pretty hard to get answers. But the first thing you can try, is to see if there are different graphics drivers.

The second thing is, installing OpenSUSE and going on the OpenSUSE mailing list (opensuse@opensuse.org) because there is a guy there (Felix) who knows a lot about graphics drivers ;-). His name is Felix Miata, and you could potentially reach him at mrmazda at the domain called "earthlink.net" but I suspect he would prefer if you asked a question on that list (or potentially the Intel HD driver list) which would be [https://lists.freedesktop.org/mailman/listinfo/intel-gfx](https://lists.freedesktop.org/mailman/listinfo/intel-gfx). Note that the latter list is going to be very technical in nature.

Regardless, attempting different graphics drivers would probably be the first step. I have no information on different drivers though at this point; I am not using Intel currently and I would have to research that myself.

---

