---
title: "IBM X41 Tablet install?"
date: 2009-03-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Zabadda on 2009-03-26
Hi can anyone tell me if or how to get Ubuntu working on an IBM X41 Tablet? any help would be great.

Thanks

---

### Post by shel-hall on 2009-03-26
> **Zabadda said:**
> Hi can anyone tell me if or how to get Ubuntu working on an IBM X41 Tablet? any help would be great.

Have you tried an actual installation?  Are you having a particular problem?

-Shel

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-03-26
A good place to start is the thinkwiki.  This is a website devoted to getting IBM thinkpads working in Linux.  You'll find lots of threads and how-to's there.

You should also search this subforum using X41.

---

### Post by Zabadda on 2009-03-26
> **shel-hall said:**
> Have you tried an actual installation?  Are you having a particular problem?

-Shel


I have Ubuntu 8.10 installed i just cant seem to get it to register the tablet mode

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-26
Hi Zabadda,

Have you installed the linuxwacom drivers and linuxwacom-tools?  Have you edited your xorg.conf to include the wacom sections?

---

### Post by Zabadda on 2009-03-27
> **Favux said:**
> Hi Zabadda,

Have you installed the linuxwacom drivers and linuxwacom-tools?  Have you edited your xorg.conf to include the wacom sections?

yeh im sure ive got all the tools and drivers but no idea how to edit the xorg to include them

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-27
Hi Zabadda,

Could you post your xorg.conf?  You have a stylus with an eraser, correct?  Are there buttons on the stylus?  How many?  It is a serial (not usb) tablet, correct?

If the drivers and tools are installed it should hopefully only take a few minutes to get your xorg configured.  And then you're set.

Loic2's Wacom wiki has a lot of useful info.  In addition if the default 0.8.1-4 linuxwacom stuff doesn't cut it for you he has 0.8.1-6 deb.s there that you can install:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom")

---

### Post by Zabadda on 2009-03-30
> **Favux said:**
> Hi Zabadda,

Could you post your xorg.conf?  You have a stylus with an eraser, correct?  Are there buttons on the stylus?  How many?  It is a serial (not usb) tablet, correct?

If the drivers and tools are installed it should hopefully only take a few minutes to get your xorg configured.  And then you're set.

Loic2's Wacom wiki has a lot of useful info.  In addition if the default 0.8.1-4 linuxwacom stuff doesn't cut it for you he has 0.8.1-6 deb.s there that you can install:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom")

Hi there this is what tablet it is the pen pic is at the bottom 

[http://images.google.co.uk/imgres?imgurl=http://www.tabletpc2.com/Graphics/Reviews/Lenovo%2520X41/Lenovo%2520Thinkpad%2520X41Tablet%2520PC.jpg&imgrefurl=http://www.tabletpc2.com/Review-IBM%2520Lenovo%2520ThinkPad%2520X41%2520Tablet%2520PC.htm&usg=__OhIj-4DXPEQ8xD9ekeDK37t3Dbo=&h=367&w=375&sz=43&hl=en&start=5&sig2=yaocwLRGPd8U5UJlDdSq1w&um=1&tbnid=TBemXICXni_18M:&tbnh=119&tbnw=122&prev=/images%3Fq%3Dx41%2Btablet%26hl%3Den%26client%3Dfirefox-a%26rls%3Dcom.ubuntu:en-GB:unofficial%26sa%3DN%26um%3D1&ei=C6_QSfuFDsO0-AbK7rTOBg](http://images.google.co.uk/imgres?imgurl=http://www.tabletpc2.com/Graphics/Reviews/Lenovo%2520X41/Lenovo%2520Thinkpad%2520X41Tablet%2520PC.jpg&imgrefurl=http://www.tabletpc2.com/Review-IBM%2520Lenovo%2520ThinkPad%2520X41%2520Tablet%2520PC.htm&usg=__OhIj-4DXPEQ8xD9ekeDK37t3Dbo=&h=367&w=375&sz=43&hl=en&start=5&sig2=yaocwLRGPd8U5UJlDdSq1w&um=1&tbnid=TBemXICXni_18M:&tbnh=119&tbnw=122&prev=/images%3Fq%3Dx41%2Btablet%26hl%3Den%26client%3Dfirefox-a%26rls%3Dcom.ubuntu:en-GB:unofficial%26sa%3DN%26um%3D1&ei=C6_QSfuFDsO0-AbK7rTOBg)

Sorry im not sure how to post my xorg conf its all pretty new to me. i guess its a terminal command?

---

### Post by dlns on 2009-03-30
Hi.

Just post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to here (or better: attach it to a reply).

Mine looks like this:

```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option 	        "EmulateWheel" 		"true"
	Option          "EmulateWheelButton" 	"2"

EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
        #Nirea
	#Option "AccelMethod" "exa"
	#Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
	#Option "ExaNoComposite" "true"
        #Option "FramebufferCompression" "false"
	#Option "Tiling" "false"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor genérico"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	31.5-90
	VertRefresh	50-90
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Monitor genérico"
	DefaultDepth	24
        SubSection "Display"
          Depth 24
          Modes "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
       Option "AutoAddDevices" "false"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

#Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

```

I followed [this guide]("http://liken.otsoa.net/blog/index.php?entry=entry080617-120522") to install Hardy on my X41t. After upgrading to Intrepid these xorg settings (also from there) work for me. (Except automatic screen rotation by swiveling, but that's not xorg-related).

Maybe this guide can help you, too? Oh, and don't forget to create backups of your xorg.conf file before editing. ;)

@Favux:
Yes, the tablet (at least mine) is connected via serial bus. The stylus has two buttons (for middle and right click) that can be used for erasing. But that seems to be application-dependant.

Greetings, D.

---

### Post by Zabadda on 2009-03-30
ok i found the file hope this is the right one.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice" Driver "wacom" Identifier "stylus" Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # Change to /dev/input/event for USB Option "Type" "stylus" Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY # Option "KeepShape" "on" # Option "TPCButton" "off" EndSection Section "InputDevice" Driver "wacom" Identifier "eraser" Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # Change to /dev/input/eventfor USB Option "Type" "eraser" Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY # Option "KeepShape" "on" EndSection Section "InputDevice" Driver "wacom" Identifier "cursor" Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0" # Change to /dev/input/event for USB Option "Type" "cursor" Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY # Option "KeepShape" "on" EndSection Section "ServerLayout" Identifier "Default Layout" Screen "Default Screen" InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents" InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents" InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents" EndSection

---

### Post by dlns on 2009-03-30
Yes, that's the right file. Have you tried replacing it with the version from Liken's article? You need root privileges to do that and after replacing restart your X server by pressing ctrl+alt+bksp. It should work by then.

---

### Post by Zabadda on 2009-03-30
> **dlns said:**
> Yes, that's the right file. Have you tried replacing it with the version from Liken's article? You need root privileges to do that and after replacing restart your X server by pressing ctrl+alt+bksp. It should work by then.

It says i dont have necessary permissions to save the file. im the only user so i thought id have root permissions. any idea how i change that?

sorry for the endless questions lol and thanks for the help so far everyone :)

---

### Post by dlns on 2009-03-30
That's right, Ubuntu has no explicit root user you can login with. Instead you will have to gain root privileges to perform certain actions. You can start a program with administrative privileges by prepending "sudo " to the command.

In this case the command you want is
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

When prompted for password, just enter the password of your main user (which is the one of your logged in account as you only have one user on that machine).

---

### Post by Zabadda on 2009-03-30
> **dlns said:**
> That's right, Ubuntu has no explicit root user you can login with. Instead you will have to gain root privileges to perform certain actions. You can start a program with administrative privileges by prepending "sudo " to the command.

In this case the command you want is
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

When prompted for password, just enter the password of your main user (which is the one of your logged in account as you only have one user on that machine).

WOO HOO! right ok tat works now but the screen flip isnt working have i missed something? the pen works fine so far

---

### Post by dlns on 2009-03-30
Getting the rotation to work took me some time, too. On my X41 I still have to rotate manually with the rotation button below the LCD panel, but that's at least something.

Get the rotatetablet script from Likens article, copy it to /usr/local/bin/ and make it executable (as told). This file is the core of rotating operations. Try enabling the other files, Liken mentioned for ACPI-triggered rotating (in /etc/acpi).

For me, the ACPI way didn't work, so I created the .Xmodmap file in my home directory. This file is mentioned on Liken's article and worked for me with Hardy, but I had to change it a little after upgrading to Intrepid. (The rotation button's keycode seemed to have changed from 203 to 139, whysoever. Also I had some issues with the IBM volume buttons.)

Mine now looks like this:
```

! back and forward browser keys
keycode 234 = F19
keycode 233 = F20
	
!Thinkpad Tablet Rotate
keycode 139 = XF86RotateWindows
!Thinkpad Tablet Menu
keycode 193 = F21
!Thinkpad Access IBM
keycode 159 = F22
!Thinkpad Tablet Reset
keycode 146 = F23

!Volume keys
keycode 174 = XF86AudioLowerVolume
keycode 176 = XF86AudioRaiseVolume
keycode 160 = XF86AudioMute

```

Now open a terminal window and start gconf-editor. Find the path /apps/metacity/global_keybindings and edit the key "run_command_12" to "XF86RotateWindows". Next go to /apps/metacity/keybinding_commands and change "command_12" to "rotatetablet".

After restarting X you should be able to rotate the screen in 90 degree steps by pressing the button. I additionally have a custom application launcher in my gnome-panel to invoke rotatetablet with stylus/mouse.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-30
Hi Zabadda and dlns,

Great, looks like you've got things in hand.  I would suggest you can remove the "cursor" section and cursor in "ServerLayout".  That refers to the external Wacom hockey puck mouse which you don't have, so it's just cluttering up your xorg.conf.

The reason the key codes changed is that Intrepid has the newer Xorg Xserver 1.5 which has a new evdev input driver.  Just to confuse things.  That triggered a flurry of problems prompting Bryce Harrington to say:
> Non-functioning hotkeys - A large chunk of time this month went into investigating hotkey issues, particularly around the sleep/battery keys. That involved into digging through 'acpi-support', which I'm wondering if we need to just drop and go with straight HAL/pmutils. There are a ton of outstanding patches from Debian that we don't have, and even with them I think it may redundant. It's too late in Intrepid to do much more than duct tape, but for Jaunty this is going to need a lot of focus.
I don't know if that relates to your acpi problems.

Some more rotation stuff you may find useful:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6274392#post6274392]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6274392#post6274392")

Hope this is useful.

---

### Post by Zabadda on 2009-03-31
ok im now trying to follow the LIKEN guide but in mot sure what to do where it says download the script make it executable with chmod +x 

do i use the sudo gedit etc to create the file under admin? and how do i make it executable?

---

### Post by dlns on 2009-03-31
@Zabadda:
There are hyperlinks (bold font) to get the script files. Download them and move them to their destination that's mentioned in the guide. For example download the **rotatetablet** script to your Desktop and do
```

sudo mv Desktop/rotatetablet /usr/local/bin/
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/rotatetablet

```
to make it executable from all working directories. As not all scripts can be downloaded, you may also use gedit to copy, paste and save the files to your desktop. Use the paths according to the certain file you put into your system.

@Favux:
The funny thing about my ACPI issues is that acpi_listen reports the ibm/hotkey events with correct codes. But although having defined rules for the events, it just does not do it, neither in Hardy nor Intrepid. Plus, in Hardy dmesg told me that it's an unknown event.

---

### Post by Zabadda on 2009-03-31
ok ive got the file on my desktop but when i run that script its saying the directory doesn't exist

---

### Post by autumnraine on 2009-06-22
Hi, I just installed Xubuntu 9.04 onto my X41 tablet and I'm having a lot of trouble getting the tablet rotation to work. First, I've been trying for days to get Liken's script from [http://liken.otsoa.net/blog/index.php?entry=entry080617-120522](http://liken.otsoa.net/blog/index.php?entry=entry080617-120522) working but with no luck.. Also, when I do rotate the screen manually (by going to Settings => Display) the screen rotates but not the tablet, so that the cursor doesn't follow the pen properly anymore. I've been trying to implement the fix given here - [http://wordsarelies.blogspot.com/2009/05/ubuntu-904-jaunty-on-thinkpad-x41.html](http://wordsarelies.blogspot.com/2009/05/ubuntu-904-jaunty-on-thinkpad-x41.html) - but again with no luck, maybe because it assumes that you've followed Liken's instructions successfully. The same problems happened when I tried the same steps in Mint 7. So at the moment I have a working tablet but with no rotation. If I copy and paste you xorg.conf file in place of mine would that help any? Also, what would be the best (and/or most sensible) way to go about assigning functions to the tablet buttons? At the moment I've got the enter, escape and arrow keys working (following Ryan's method from the Words are Lies blog), but not the other keys, including the Rotate key. 

I'd really, really appreciate any help you can give me. Thanks!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-06-22
Hi autumnraine,

REc's script should translate the names correctly.  Maybe you are having trouble following the instructions.  Gali98 updated his HOW TO to on the post #104 that Ryan links to for the wacomtohal (rec's) script.  Gali98 removed the script because we found a way to get the wacom.fdi to parse HAL names to linuxwacom names correctly without rec's script for usb tablet pc's.

But it's available on post #93 on the same thread:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7068115#post7068115](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7068115#post7068115)  I kept it for you serial tablet pc users.  There are some more instructions there that may help you figure things out.  A little more info. about things is available in Jaunty Users near the top here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949)

Hopefully that's enough to get rotation working for you.

---

### Post by autumnraine on 2009-06-22
Thank you so much! I'll read that thread and report on whether I can get it working. :D

---

### Post by autumnraine on 2009-06-22
Hey, so I'm still reading over these threads, trying to figure out precisely what I need to apply. I've just done a fresh install, so I'm back to the beginning as of today's updates. What would help would be to know exactly where I should begin to get tablet rotation working. As far as I can tell the pen configuration itself works out of the box - the only problem is when I try to rotate it the screen and tablet get out of sync. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-06-22
Hi autumnraine,

The problem is the wacom.fdi is not parsing the names HAL is returning into names linuxwacom can understand.  So xsetwacom commands (rotation) and wacomcpl don't work.

To see this in a terminal enter;
```
xsetwacom list
```
That should return stylus and eraser.  At least I think that's what the X41 has.  If it is blank, that's why rotation isn't working.  To see the names HAL is returning enter in a terminal:
```
xintput --list
```
So as in 3) of Jaunty Users you can either rename stylus and eraser in your rotation script with what "xinput --list" returns or use rec's script (3a).

I know you have a rotation script already.  But some others are at:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6274392#post6274392](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6274392#post6274392)

---

### Post by autumnraine on 2009-06-24
Awesome! So I finally got it all working - I think it was probably working all along, I was just going about testing it the wrong way. Now I just have to figure out how to assign the tablet buttons to specific key combinations for use in xournal. Thanks for all your help with this, you rock!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-06-24
Hi autumnraine,

Great!  Glad you're set up.  You're welcome.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-19
> **autumnraine said:**
> Now I just have to figure out how to assign the tablet buttons to specific key combinations for use in xournal. 

has anyone figured this out?  I plan on using my tablet for a kitchen computer (attached to my mythtv backend).  I have several screenlets running and would like to use the arrow buttons to scroll between workspaces with out having to click on the workspace directly.

TIA!

---

### Post by autumnraine on 2009-08-19
I could never figure out a way to program the buttons. Eventually I gave up and switched to Windows 7. I really appreciated the help of people in this forum, but in the end it just wasn't worth the hassle (for me anyway). :confused:

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-19
Hi SnafuFlux and autumnraine,

Hope this helps:

[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_get_special_keys_to_work](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_get_special_keys_to_work)

[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Tablet_Hardware_Buttons](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Tablet_Hardware_Buttons)

[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Category:X41_Tablet](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Category:X41_Tablet)

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
I hate to do this.  but I'm just having a hell of a time getting rotation to work for this tablet.  I don't even really need rotation itself.  I just want to invert the tablet so that I can mount it upside down under my kitchen cabinets :P

I can get the screen to rotate and I'm trying my best to follow the instructions to get the stylus to rotate with, but I'm a failure...  

I'm using 9.04 on x41t.  If someone could give me a step by step process to get the rotation working, I'd be forever in your debt!

tia!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Hi SnafuFlux,

Not a problem.  See the Rotation HOW TO:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6274392#post6274392](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6274392#post6274392)  Methods 1 & 3 should work for you.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
I tried 3 (seemed the easiest).  didn't work.  it rotates but the pen doesn't match up

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Hi SnafuFlux,

OK, I should have realized.  The xsetwacom commands won't work unless HAL is returning the proper linuxwacom names.  To see what I mean enter in a terminal:
```
xsetwacom list
```
You should see stylus and eraser not nothing.  To see what HAL is calling them enter:
```
xinput --list
```
So to get a rotation script to work (method 1) you'd have to go and rename stylus with whatever HAL is calling stylus (include the quotes) and the same with eraser.  You should remove touch from the scripts anyway since you don't have it.

Or you could use rec's script so HAL returns the right names.  Then wacomrotate should work.  See 3) and 3a) in "Jaunty Users" near the top here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949)

That should fix it for you.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
yah I tried that (xsetwacom --list) and it says it's not installed.  so I try apt-get install wacom-tools, and it tells me that it has no installation candidate.  tells me that xserver-xorg-input-wacom replaces it...  any idea?

I've got like 3 different ways to rotate, but the damn pen doesn't match
edit: is there an alternative way to getting the tools?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Hi SnafuFlux,

Check in Synaptic Package Manager.  Search wacom.  You should have both 0.8.2-2 linuxwacom packages installed, xserver-xorg-input-wacom & wacom-tools.  You are in Jaunty (9.04), correct?  If not install them.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
god I must sound like a dumbass.  I am indeed 9.04.  when I quick search "wacom" I see two packages only.  wacomrotate (I just installed this as per item 1) of your suggestion) and xserver-xorg-input-wacom (1:0.8.2.2-0ubuntu2).  no where do I see wacom-tools - this is my frustration.  is there a deb that I can download?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Hi SnafuFlux,

I'm confused.  Are you sure wacom-tools isn't there?  It should be unless something is messed up with your Package Manager.  The package xserver-xorg-input-wacom is installed by default, but wacom-tools should be there.  You can get it from the Ubuntu repository:  [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/)  But you shouldn't have to.  Be very careful they are both the same version.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
I'm confused too!  hah.  I don't understand it.  I can see it on my mythbuntu box running 9.04.  but I can't see it here on this install.  I've reinstalled 3 times and I still don't see it.  I'm in the middle of an update right now.  I'll search for it again after the update.  But I can assure you I don't see it. 

I quickly looked at the repository and couldn't find the tools.  can you provide a direct link please?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Sure, here you go:  [http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/wacom-tools](http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/wacom-tools)

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
the problem is jaunty is only looking at jaunty repositories.  I had to make it look at intrepid too.  I now have found wacom-tools

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
No no no.  Has to be the same version.  Don't uses Intrepid's in Jaunty.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
yah I have version 0.8.2.2.  I ran xsetwacom list it but nothing is returned.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Did you miss my post 33 above?  Did you follow the link to Jaunty Users

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
I did miss that.  I'm on the trail now.  I get stylus and eraser when xsetwacom list :D  will report soon

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
worked!  I can rotate with proper pen!  thank you so much.  I'm going to try it again tomorrow (i've messed with a bunch of junk and I'd like a nice clean install)..  

have you had any autorotating on startup to inverted with method 1)?
edit: either method really?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Hi SnafuFlux,

Outstanding!  Nice job.

Well you can edit one of the scripts, say the 360 degree one, and remove what you don't need.  That's the idea of showing all of them, so you can see what you need to do.

If that's a problem I can help you.  You want it to go directly from landscape to inverted?  And you don't care which direction it gets there?

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
your idea would work, but I took the easier route (maybe?).  
create the script "invert script":
gedit /home/USER/invertscreen
add the code:  xrandr -q | grep -q '+\w* (' && xrandr -o inverted || xrandr -o normal

chmod +x said file.  
added it to the startup applications.  once the laptop boots it automatically rotates :D  this should be a good solution, right?

edit: yah, I don't care how it gets there, I just want it inverted.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Hi SnafuFlux,

Good work.  Sure, whatever works for you.  That's part of the point, lot's of ways to get it done.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
thanks again, eh!  I couldn't have done it with your your kind support!

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
alright, I'm really close!  I've got the rotation working great.  it work 95% of the time on start up.  I've successfully assigned the script to the rotation button (following these instructions: [http://wordsarelies.blogspot.com/2009/05/ubuntu-904-jaunty-on-thinkpad-x41.html](http://wordsarelies.blogspot.com/2009/05/ubuntu-904-jaunty-on-thinkpad-x41.html))

but I have a rather annoying problem.  I will get the rotation button working, and then reboot.  when I get back in, the button no longer works.  I'll then have to re-assign the button to another keycode and then set the keyboard shortcut to that key.  why would I be losing the shortcut on reboots?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Hi SnafuFlux,

It shouldn't unless the key labels you are assigning the key code to aren't free?

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
I'm using the ones the artical suggested - 130-132.  How do I know if they aren't free?  I've used sudo dumpkeys | less and I see that 130-132 = ""  does this mean they're free?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Hi SnafuFlux,

Well that looks like a decent tutorial.  That's how I would interpret it.

Why don't you take a look at:  [http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Tablet_Hardware_Buttons](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Tablet_Hardware_Buttons)  from:  [http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Category:X41_Tablet](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Category:X41_Tablet)  Maybe something there will help.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
nm, I got it working.  You must have been right.  I randomly chose 227, and it now works on boot up.  I still would like to know how to determine what keycodes are free.  Or is it just trial and error?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-23
Hi SnafuFlux,

Good!

I tried to figure that out.  If I remember right I used a script that dumped gconf key stuff.  But there turned out to be several locations and I couldn't be sure I had the script working right and that it was picking them all up.

---

### Post by SnafuFlux on 2009-08-23
so trial and error it is :)  not a big deal.  I'll find the codes eventually.  

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-08-25
Hi SnafuFlux,

Actually I think there is a way to do it without trial and error.  In a terminal enter:
```
sudo dumpkeycodes
```
And that should show you everything.  To find unassigned keys use:
```
sudo dumpkeycodes | egrep ' 0'
```
Let me know if that works.

---

### Post by 7digit on 2009-10-27
Hi,
 
I followed this very interesting thread after installing Karmic 9.10 on my X41 Tablet, where nearly everthing is working now (automatic screen rotation etc.).
 
I said "nearly" because I am not able to resolve the following problem: suspend / hibernate is not working (the X41 is hanging after chosing suspend; screen goes black but backlight is not deactived; no resume possible, only forced shutdown via O/I-button. I am not 100% sure if it worked before applying all the different methods and scripts (esp. the Liken tutorial) I tried to get correct screen rotation and stylus behavior, but I think it did.
 
May the problem be related to the ACPI swivel scripts from the Liken page? Does ACPI somehow harm the prower management in 9.10 on the X41? Is there a short answer (like no ACPI in X41) or should I just try to revert the applied changes? I should add that I tried gOS before and suspend + rotation worked, but I had other problems which drove me to install Karmic.
 
Would be great to have the full tablet functionality AND PM working - and I would appreciate any of your answers very much.
 
Thanks in advance, Stephan

---

### Post by 7digit on 2009-10-28
Hi,
just wanted to add that, after a complete re-install and re-applying of the different howto's, my Ubuntu 9.10 nmow runs on the X41 with automatic screen rtotation, buttons enbaled, and power management (sleep, hibernate). Don't know what I did different compared to the last try I described in the previous post, but I think it has something to do with the installing of out-dated power management tools.
 
However, I am still facing smaller issues with Kernel errors after resuming. Will do a system update today and see if this lasts.

---

### Post by Temetka on 2009-11-06
7Digit,

I have the same laptop as you (x41t) and am running 9.10

Since karmic does not use Xorg (from what I have read) how did you get your stylus to rotate with the screen?

I followed the configuration info from:

[]("http://liken.otsoa.net/blog/index.php?entry=entry080617-120522")[http://liken.otsoa.net/blog/index.php?entry=entry080617-120522](http://liken.otsoa.net/blog/index.php?entry=entry080617-120522)

However my mouse and stylus don't rotate.

My xorg.conf file is non-existent. 

I created on with only the stylus info as listed on the above site and rebooted -- to a black screen. X wouldn't start. So I hit ctrl+alt+f6, logged in, rm'd the xorg.conf file and rebooted and am back.

So my screen rotates and the stylus and mouse do not. 

Any help on getting this last bit functional under 9.10 would be great.

---

### Post by autumnraine on 2009-11-06
I eventually managed to get it working by following exactly the steps from the blog Liken refers to. If you do those steps before Liken's you should be able to get it working (unless something relevant has changed from 9.04 to 9.10). Personally I just gave up on getting the tablet features all working, but still use Ubuntu on it.

---

### Post by Temetka on 2009-11-07
The only change I can note that is stopping me is that I can't get the stylus to accept the rotation script.

The reason is that in 9.04 it is configured in the Xorg.conf file.

In 9.10 the Ubuntu Team no longer uses Xorg to configure graphics and input devices. Therefore I am not sure how to configure the stylus.

If I create an Xorg.conf file with only the stylus on it, the X server (or its equivalent in 9.10) fails to load completely.

What I need is to figure out how 9.10 configures it's input information for hardware such as mice, stylii and so on.

---

### Post by Temetka on 2009-11-07
Ok so I created the xorg.conf file and it's output is below.

```

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "X.org Configured"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    ModulePath   "/usr/lib/xorg/modules"
    FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
    FontPath     "built-ins"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load  "record"
    Load  "dri2"
    Load  "glx"
    Load  "dri"
    Load  "dbe"
    Load  "extmod"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier  "Keyboard0"
    Driver      "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier  "Mouse0"
    Driver      "mouse"
    Option        "Protocol" "auto"
    Option        "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "ZAxisMapping" "4 5 6 7"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "stylus"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "stylus"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "cursor"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "cursor"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "Monitor0"
    VendorName   "Lenovo"
    ModelName    "Thinkpad XGA Tablet LCD"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        ### Available Driver options are:-
        ### Values: <i>: integer, <f>: float, <bool>: "True"/"False",
        ### <string>: "String", <freq>: "<f> Hz/kHz/MHz"
        ### [arg]: arg optional
        #Option     "NoAccel"                # [<bool>]
        #Option     "SWcursor"               # [<bool>]
        #Option     "ColorKey"               # <i>
        #Option     "CacheLines"             # <i>
        #Option     "Dac6Bit"                # [<bool>]
        #Option     "DRI"                    # [<bool>]
        #Option     "NoDDC"                  # [<bool>]
        #Option     "ShowCache"              # [<bool>]
        #Option     "XvMCSurfaces"           # <i>
        #Option     "PageFlip"               # [<bool>]
    Identifier  "Card0"
    Driver      "intel"
    VendorName  "Intel Corporation"
    BoardName   "Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
    BusID       "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "Screen0"
    Device     "Card0"
    Monitor    "Monitor0"
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     1
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     4
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     8
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     15
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     16
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
    InputDevice     "stylus"    "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice     "cursor"    "SendCoreEvents"
    #InputDevice     "eraser"    "SendCoreEvents"
    #InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

```

So I need an entry in /dev/input for my wacom tablet so it should read /dev/input/wacom. The scripts send data to /dev/input/wacom and as such they will expect an input device at that location. Below is the output of an ls -al in the /dev/input folder:

```

drwxr-xr-x  3 root root    280 2009-11-07 02:38 .
drwxr-xr-x 16 root root   3760 2009-11-07 03:18 ..
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root    100 2009-11-07 02:38 by-path
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 64 2009-11-06 18:38 event0
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 65 2009-11-06 18:38 event1
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 66 2009-11-06 18:38 event2
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 67 2009-11-06 18:38 event3
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 68 2009-11-06 18:38 event4
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 69 2009-11-06 18:38 event5
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 70 2009-11-07 02:38 event6
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 71 2009-11-07 02:38 event7
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 63 2009-11-06 18:38 mice
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 32 2009-11-06 18:38 mouse0
crw-r-----  1 root root 13, 33 2009-11-07 02:38 mouse1

```

Note that it starts with a 'c' as opposed to 'd' or '-' if it were a directory or folder. The 'c' denotes that is a kernel input method.

The question then is how do I go about creating that type of entry in /dev/input?

---

### Post by Cabalist on 2009-11-08
I am also having problems getting my stylus to rotate.  When I run **xsetwacom list** I get nothing back. Everything else is working great!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-11-08
Hi,

The basic problem in Jaunty and Karmic is that the default 10-wacom.fdi (10-linuxwacom.fdi in Karmic) does not parse the names HAL/dBus is returning correctly.  The xsetwacom commands for rotation and wacomcpl are hardcoded to expect stylus, eraser, etc.  That's why "xsetwacom list" is empty.  To see what they are being called enter "xinput --list".

There are several ways to deal with this with serial tablet pc's.  See "Jaunty (9.04) & Karmic (9.10) Users" near the top of this [HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949").

We did figure out how to get a .fdi to parse it correctly for usb tablet pc's and I attached an attempt at a serial tablet pc .fdi that hopefully does the same thing to the bottom of the HOW TO.

---

### Post by 7digit on 2009-11-16
> **Temetka said:**
> 7Digit,

I have the same laptop as you (x41t) and am running 9.10

Since karmic does not use Xorg (from what I have read) how did you get your stylus to rotate with the screen?


Hi Temetka,
I played around with several instructions I found on the net and somehow I got it - it's a while ago now so I am not sure anymore which mix did it in the end. I also had the source you are refering to, but as this is about an older release, I had some troubles with it, too.

Just try the following:
[http://www.linux.com/community/blogs/installing-ubuntu-904-on-a-ibm-x41-tablet.html]("http://www.linux.com/community/blogs/installing-ubuntu-904-on-a-ibm-x41-tablet.html")

and have a look into the instructions on [www.thinkwiki.org]("http://www.thinkwiki.org"), also the sources on the X61T (think there was on about Karmic on the net).

I think you don't need a xorg.conf ...

By the way, opposite to my last post, power management is again NOT working correctly on my X41T, don't know why...

BR

---

### Post by Temetka on 2009-11-19
You know I think I am going to give up on Karmic and load up 9.04.

It should still run mostly as fast as 9.10 and I'll get all my tablet stuff working also.

---

### Post by Terad on 2009-11-20
Hi,

I've got another problem with Karmic on my X41:
as the xorg.conf is not supported anymore, I do not know how to configure the blue mouse scroll button :(

Maybe anyone can help?
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by cantormath on 2010-03-01
I installed ubuntu (Karmic) 9.10 on my X41 tablet.  Everything works out of the box, including suspend and hibernate, and the only thing I needed to configure was the finger print reader.

It seems that the pen is even more sensitive under Karmic then under Window$ tablet/Wjournal.  Still looking for a wjournal and/or OneNote replacement.  

Note: with Jarnel, I turned off the smooth stroke option and the pen seems to write better for my tastes.

---

