---
title: "10.04 - Backlight not adjustable on Acer Aspire One"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by a5an0 on 2010-04-29
I have a first-gen Acer Aspire One, and the backlight was adjustable under 9.10 and 9.04 with Fn+[Left Arrow]/[Right Arrow]. I upgraded to Lucid today, and the backlight is no longer adjustable.

Is there some way to bind brightness to a keybinding manually?

Thanks!

---

### Post by npattillo on 2010-05-20
I have an Acer Aspire 5740 and I am having the same issue with Lucid. Let me know if you find anything out.

---

### Post by jlaki on 2010-05-20
i have aspire one d150 and it works well on clean install.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-20
If you hold down the fn key and use the right or left keys, in the bottom right corner, it will adjust the screen brightness, the up an down keys control the volume.

---

### Post by Gaygerbil on 2010-08-04
It's not adjustable however meaning you either have the backlight off or on and you can't go in between which is lame. Any fix on this yet?

---

### Post by utilitytrack on 2010-08-04
It's adjustable. Try to make screen less bright

```
# echo 0 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
```

---

### Post by Gaygerbil on 2010-08-06
> **utilitytrack said:**
> It's adjustable. Try to make screen less bright

```
# echo 0 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
```

All that code did was not make my brightness  notification show up...thanks. <___<

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2010-08-06
On your top menu panel (The one with Applications) right-click, one of the sides, then select "Brightness Applet".

---

### Post by Gaygerbil on 2010-08-06
I'm assuming he's using 10.04 Netbook like I am for my netbook, which in case the brightness applet doesn't work for me. It'll show up when added to the panel but I can't adjust the settings on it, it's also like this for my Gf's laptop who runs 10.04 Netbook on another version of this laptop.

Also my brightness notification no longer works, halpz.

---

### Post by utilitytrack on 2010-08-06
to **Gaygerbil** and others

```
# echo 0 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
```

Did you run this command from *root*? Do you sure that *not from sudo* but from root, yes?

---

### Post by Gaygerbil on 2010-08-06
> **utilitytrack said:**
> to **Gaygerbil** and others

```
# echo 0 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
```

Did you run this command from *root*? Do you sure that *not from sudo* but from root, yes?

How would I run that command as root? 

<- Linux Newb.

---

### Post by utilitytrack on 2010-08-06
Ha! Did you wish become a root? Remember that **it dangerous**. How to: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo")

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2010-08-07
> **Gaygerbil said:**
> I'm assuming he's using 10.04 Netbook like I am for my netbook, which in case the brightness applet doesn't work for me. It'll show up when added to the panel but I can't adjust the settings on it, it's also like this for my Gf's laptop who runs 10.04 Netbook on another version of this laptop.

Also my brightness notification no longer works, halpz.
Yes, it doesn't work for me, either. I was hoping it would work for you. I'll go look for more.
> **utilitytrack said:**
> Ha! Did you wish become a root? Remember that **it dangerous**. How to: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)
What is funny about it? I don't think you would give him knowingly a dangerous command. Right click applications, then click edit menus. Go down to system tools and click the check next to root terminal. Close that window and go to **Applications>System Tools>Root Terminal. **Then copy and paste that code their. Am I right?

---

### Post by Gaygerbil on 2010-08-08
Well the brightness notification thing randomly showed up one time I was putting up my brightness and I got all excited but I just tried it now and it's still not showing.

Edit:

I think I figured out what's going on with my brightness notification, it also happens with power settings it's cuz I'm using the battery applet and having hte icon for power manager off. Is there a way to have the icon off but the notifications still appear?

---

### Post by SafetyScissors on 2010-08-18
I'm having a similar problem with my Acer Aspire 5732Z. The Fn left and right arrow keys bring up a notification that the brightness has been changed, and they also change the value in /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness, but the backlight brightness never actually changes, it just stays fully bright. Any ideas what might cause this?

---

### Post by tito_torrisi on 2010-08-31
> **SafetyScissors said:**
> I'm having a similar problem with my Acer Aspire 5732Z. The Fn left and right arrow keys bring up a notification that the brightness has been changed, and they also change the value in /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness, but the backlight brightness never actually changes, it just stays fully bright. Any ideas what might cause this?

I guess this will fix your problem as well:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ux/+bug/568611](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ux/+bug/568611)

Why does it take so long to push this it into the main kernel?

---

### Post by npattillo on 2010-09-10
I went to think link at Launch pad and it comes up as a bad link. I am still trying to fix this. I have the same issue as stated previously - the backlight notification says that I am adjusting it, but the screen brightness doesn't change. I have tried several suggestions with no success yet. I am just squinting at night time, my laptop is so bright. Thanks for everyone's help!!

---

### Post by tito_torrisi on 2010-09-12
> **npattillo said:**
> I went to think link at Launch pad and it comes up as a bad link. I am still trying to fix this. I have the same issue as stated previously - the backlight notification says that I am adjusting it, but the screen brightness doesn't change. I have tried several suggestions with no success yet. I am just squinting at night time, my laptop is so bright. Thanks for everyone's help!!

Search for kamal and i915 on launchpad, you will find a ppa with a new Kernel with patches...

---

### Post by npattillo on 2010-09-15
> **tito_torrisi said:**
> Search for kamal and i915 on launchpad, you will find a ppa with a new Kernel with patches...
Thanks! I will try it and re-post as to any success that I have.

---

### Post by tito_torrisi on 2010-09-27
> **npattillo said:**
> Thanks! I will try it and re-post as to any success that I have.

Fixed kernel available, check the launchpad bug report again!!

---

### Post by santiagorf on 2011-01-30
with kernel 2.6.32-27 doesn't work on ubuntu 10.04, but i can control the backlight with the keyboard when running with version 2.6.32-24

---

