---
title: "Scanning with Brother Multifunction Centre DCP-135C"
date: 2009-08-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by growingneeds on 2009-08-08
I require the scanning capabilities of my Brother DCP-135C on Jaunty (ubuntu 9.04). Hence after some probing, these are the steps to get things going:
[LIST=1]
[*]**Download the scanner driver.** The driver may be obtained from Brother at [http://solutions.brother.com/linux/en_us/download_scn.html](http://solutions.brother.com/linux/en_us/download_scn.html). My DCP-135C requires use of the brscan2 driver. Since I was using ubuntu 9.04, I downloaded the 32-bit debian file.
[*]**Install the scanner driver.** Just double-click the driver. From a geek's perspective, I prefer:```
sudo dpkg -i brscan2-0.2.4-4.i386.deb
```This allows me to ***view*** the install, and to review it as necessary.
[*]**Determine the USB identifer for device.** ```
lsusb
``` and locate for the pair of 4-digit alphanumericals XXXX:YYYY for the device. Mine was 04f9:01ce.
[*]**Add new rules under udev.** ```
gksudo gedit /lib/udev/rules.d/50-udev-default.rules
```At the end of the document, append these 2 lines of text:```
# Brother DCP-135C
SYSFS{idVendor}=="04f9", SYSFS{idProduct}=="01ce", MODE="0666", GROUP="scanner"
```Note that you will have to rename the description in the first line to describe your machine. ***idVendor*** refers to the 4-digit alphanumerals on the left of the colon; ***idProduct*** refers to the 4-digit on the right. 0666 indicates superuser mode. The read/write mode of 0664 does ***NOT*** work.
[*]**Restart udev.** ```
sudo /etc/init.d/udev restart
``` Or, restart ubuntu if you must.
[*]**Smile, & start scanning.** Launch the ***XSane Image scanning program*** and scan, scan, scan...
[/LIST]

Some unanswered queries. In the udev rules document, there was this comment at the start: > # do not edit this file, it will be overwritten on update I get the hunch that if my scanner breaks after an update, I will have append the 2 lines of codes to udev rules again.

---

### Post by mihai.ile on 2009-10-23
If lsusb command does not show your brother, try

```
sudo lsusb
```

---

### Post by mihai.ile on 2011-03-21
I can confirm that this solution works on Ubuntu 10.10 also.

---

### Post by Normand on 2011-04-30
I had just got this working in 10.10 .... thanks.

But now for some stupid reason I decided to upgrade to 11.04 and now cannot get my dcp-135c scanning.... it is printing ok.

All the steps above seem ok .... and I also tried all the stuff in [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompileSaneFromSource](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompileSaneFromSource)

But my scanning programmes will not recognise the scanner.

Permissions - in users and groups there is a group for sane but not a group called scanner ... not sure if this is a problem.

---

