---
title: "[11.10] Unknown Display Driver for Intel GM45"
date: 2011-11-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ilbb on 2011-11-20
Hi.

In System Info, under Display tab, the driver is set to "Unknown".
I believe this is causing problems with heating issues and fan issue. 

I have just tried booting with Fedora 16 liveCD, and under system info, display drivers, it's set to, "Intel® GM45 Express Chipset".

How can I make sure Ubuntu is using the correct drivers?
I'm fairly new to linux in general, meaning I have little terminal knowledge.

Also, how can I better optimize my laptops power management, and CPU throttling, Ubuntu documentation is surprisingly scarce, compared to Fedora and Arch.

Thank you for taking the time to help me out. :]
// ACER EXTENSA 4630z

---

### Post by Mortis8513 on 2011-12-07
Hi.
Same problem here on a HP 2730p with the GM45 graphic trying to run 11.10 64bit.

Any suggestions?

@ilbb: Are you also trying to run 64bit Ubuntu and was the Fedora live cd 32bit?

Thank You.

---

### Post by foresthill on 2011-12-07
If you're in your LCD monitor's correct native resolution, and Unity works, chances are that you're using the correct driver and everything is fine.

However, if you're feeling brave, the newest drivers can be installed from here:

[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

Here is how you add this to your software sources:

> Adding this PPA to your system

You can update your system with unsupported packages from this untrusted PPA by adding ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa to your system's Software Sources. 

Once you do this, run "Software up to Date" to install the drivers.

---

### Post by barnabas02 on 2011-12-13
I have the same problem with Fujitsu Siemens ESPRIMO mobile.
Or can I set the resolution manually?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-12-14
Hey folks ... the "problem" is that system info is unreliable.  I have the correct AMD drivers installed on my 11.10 desktop and system info says "unknown" for me too.  So, don't stress about bad info.

If you're getting a desktop, the correct drivers are already installed as part of the intial setup.  This is not Windows, where you start rummaging around for drivers after OS install; this is Linux, where the drivers get installed automatically.

---

### Post by jstndrn on 2011-12-16
So I have this problem with pretty much any integrated graphics from intel. This fix always seems to work. Enter the following into a terminal
```
sudo apt-get install mesa-utils
```

---

### Post by jstndrn on 2011-12-16
I must also mention that this fix doesn't install the drivers themselves. As Mark mentioned, the drivers are likely installed but simply allows the system info to collect the correct information.

---

