---
title: "11.04 on Asus Pro 36J Series (nvidia driver problem)"
date: 2011-06-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by psuter on 2011-06-22
so it seems i'm the first one here who is trying to get ubuntu to run on that notebook. it is a nice slim notebook with an intel core i5 cpu and nvidia 310m gpu inside. 

**List Updated**
what works out of the box: 
- sound
- function keys
- wifi
- touchpad 
- suspend (needs workaround from [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1569380&highlight=nvidia+310m](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1569380&highlight=nvidia+310m))
- Intel Video Card (embedded in CPU) works without Nvidia support (disable nvidia card to save power [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1569380&highlight=nvidia+310m](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1569380&highlight=nvidia+310m))

what does not work at all
- nvidia 310m card for better video performance
- USB 3.0 Port seems to be dead, it's only good as power soucre so far

that's what i know so far. 

my biggest concern really is the suspend. the problem is, that the notebook doesn't even go into suspend when i manually execute sudo pm-suspend or when i click suspend in a menu in the gui. instead it shows a black screen with a flashing cursor and stays that way. no chance to make it go entirely to sleep or to wake up at all.. just hold the power button for 10s and turn it back on after that. 

i suspect that this problem is probably connected to the incorrect video driver being used.. so i've tried both binary nvidia driver versions: the ubuntu packaged version and the latest version from nvidia's webpage. 
the outcome is always the same: the nvidia module is loaded but when xorg starts it doesn't find a device.. unlike with other notebooks where the xorg is not able to find the screen, this one here is unable to find the nvidia card allthough lspci shows the card just fine and the module is loaded too.. i've blacklisted and uninstalled nouveau but this doesn't resolve the problem either. 

i use nvidia in all my other pc's and it's working just fine but i can't get it to work ont hat asus notebook .. does anyone have any suggestions how i could get the driver to run on my notebook? .. 


lspci: 
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GT218 [GeForce 310M] (rev a2)
```

/var/log/Xorg.0.log: 
```
[    20.856] (II) Loading extension DRI2
[    20.856] (II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
[    20.856] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/extra-modules/nvidia_drv.so
[    20.856] (II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
[    20.856]    compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
[    20.856]    Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    20.856] (II) NVIDIA dlloader X Driver  270.41.06  Mon Apr 18 14:55:25 PDT 2011
[    20.856] (II) NVIDIA Unified Driver for all Supported NVIDIA GPUs
[    20.857] (--) using VT number 8

[    20.859] (EE) No devices detected.

```

---

### Post by psuter on 2011-06-22
and here's my first self-reply :) .. i just found this thread which helped fixing the suspend problem.. i'll try disabling the nvidia card later 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1569380&highlight=nvidia+310m](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1569380&highlight=nvidia+310m)

---

### Post by psuter on 2011-06-23
it seems the pro 36 has a lot in comon with the u35 as also the disabling of the nvidia card worked as described.. 

it would still be nice if the nvidia did work one day.. but for now i'm good with that.. what's also still missing is usb 3.0 .. the port has power but not even a mouse works when connected to it.

---

