---
title: "11.4 Natty eeePC HA1005 Touchpad issue"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pamzilla on 2011-04-29
Upgraded last night to 11.4 which at first seemed to have worked great, but then I noticed that as soon as I open a application / new window the touchpad becomes totally unresponsive and the cursor freezes where it was. Any solution to this?

---

### Post by pamzilla on 2011-04-29
Upon testing a external USB mouse works without problems. When trying to enable/disable the touchpad it says: ensure xorg.conf is properly configured.

---

### Post by jmtalarn on 2011-04-30
Same problem for me! 
I tried to remove the synaptics configuration from /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d and then it works like a mouse. This means without 'click on tap' or 'scroll on border move', the click only works with the buttons. I don't know if it gets freezed if is used severally but it worked opening and closing many windows and programs. 
To work like this I prefer to use an external mouse but is interesting to use the touchpad in the usual way.

---

### Post by moab on 2011-05-13
Having the same issue on mine. Did you find a fix for it?

---

### Post by pamzilla on 2011-05-18
Sorry, no news here. Usually end up restarting 3x for it to work, start gnome-do or a folder or browser too fast and it freezes up..sometimes goes well going via Applications and opening things from there but then sometimes the curser just vanishes..
Think I will go over setting it as a normal mouse instead for the time being to slip the reboots...

---

### Post by ozono on 2011-10-09
Hi there,

It happened the same to me on my EEEPC 1101HA.

After googling a bit, I installed 2 apps that brought my touchpad device back to live:

1- Pointing devices
```
sudo apt-get install gpointing-device-settings
```
That will install a new config tool (accessible via system/preferences menu) that allows you to configure all the settings available for your touchpad, even the multi-touch stuff.

2 - Touchpad indicator applet
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:atareao/atareao
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install touchpad-indicator
```
After installing this one, I was able to "enable" my touchpad and it became fully functional again.

I hope this helps someone else.

PS: you can find more useful indicator applets here: [http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/05/10-useful-application-indicators-for.html](http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/05/10-useful-application-indicators-for.html)

Cheers.

---

### Post by nandan079 on 2011-12-02
having same problem on my dell 14R machine.

i will try the above solution and all of u know if it works or not..

---

