---
title: "10.10 installs but hangs on boot -- Laptop: Compaq Presario R3000"
date: 2010-11-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dave247 on 2010-11-04
So I just downloaded Ubuntu 10.10 and booted up the CD on my Compaq Presario R3000 Laptop. It boots up fine and I can use the the OS through Live CD but when I go through and install it, then get to the point where I need to restart, I restart and Ubuntu comes up with the hazy purple background as well as the top menu bar -- which only has a few icons on the far right (arrow icon, sound and power) -- which do not register when I press them. It's like Ubuntu almost finished loading but then just hangs forever and never finishes.

I'm going to try to install the Netbook version but idk if that will work either. 

It really seems like I can never get Ubuntu working on this laptop. I have successfully installed Debian 5 and Linux Mint before and they run well with no problems. I would think Ubuntu should run just as well if not better.

Any input?

Laptop Specs: CPU: Athlon XP-M; RAM: 512mb; GPU: nvidia.

EDIT: Solution is a few posts down.

---

### Post by qamelian on 2010-11-04
Which version of the R3000? I'm running 10.10 on a Compaq Presario R3000T, which is a 2.4 Ghz P4 with a Mobility Radeon 9000 IGP. There are at least 2 other versions including one with an AMD64 Processor and Nvidia graphics (R3000Z, I think). I'm having no problems at all on the R3000T. Additional info on your specs will help diagnose the problem.

---

### Post by dave247 on 2010-11-04
> **qamelian said:**
> Which version of the R3000? I'm running 10.10 on a Compaq Presario R3000T, which is a 2.4 Ghz P4 with a Mobility Radeon 9000 IGP. There are at least 2 other versions including one with an AMD64 Processor and Nvidia graphics (R3000Z, I think). I'm having no problems at all on the R3000T. Additional info on your specs will help diagnose the problem.

oh...hmm... I just googled the part number and I guess its the R3410US

Here is the HP page for the laptop: [http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?docname=c00284474&cc=us&dlc=en&lc=en&jumpid=reg_R1002_USEN](http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?docname=c00284474&cc=us&dlc=en&lc=en&jumpid=reg_R1002_USEN)

---

### Post by qamelian on 2010-11-04
It's odd that you've been able to install Mint at have it work, but not Ubuntu, since Mint is actually based on Ubuntu. While I wouldn't stake my life on it, my best guess would be a driver issue relating to the older Nvidia GPU. At the GRUB menu, can yo boot into recovery mode?

---

### Post by dave247 on 2010-11-04
SOLUTION:

1. I had to go here: [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware) (this page tells you what I'm putting as the last two steps)
2. Verify that my wifi card was supported with this command: " lspci -vnn | grep 14e4 "
3. Then download and install them with this one command: " sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter " 

Then I rebooted and it runs fine now.

Of course read the entire page for your specific system.

---

### Post by qamelian on 2010-11-05
Cool! Glad you got it resolved. :)

---

