---
title: "11.10 graphics problem with Asus HD 6570"
date: 2011-12-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Mr.kus on 2011-12-04
Hi.
I have graphics problems with my new computer and latest ubuntu. I have graphics card from Asus with AMD Radeon HD 6570 chipset and 1 GB DDR3. When  I booted from Live Flash Drive (Ubuntu 11.10 64 bit) graphics were  fine, but after installing and booting from hd the screen is complete  mess and flickers. I let the installer to check and install updates from  net during the installation process.  Does anyone have any idea how to fix this? I'm not very good with terminal, but I know the basics and can follow instructions.

Other specs of my system:

Processor: Intel i7 2600k 
Motherboard: Gigabyte Z68XP-UD4 (which is able to use processors  integrated graphics. I just don't have hdmi cable at hand to try if that  works.) 
RAM 16 gigs Kingston HyperX 1600  

I also have Win7 64 bit installed on other hd.  

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by MoreOrLess on 2011-12-04
You need to disable the integrated graphics in the BIOS if you want to use the AMD card with the Catalyst driver.

---

### Post by Mr.kus on 2011-12-05
> **MoreOrLess said:**
> You need to disable the integrated graphics in the BIOS if you want to use the AMD card with the Catalyst driver.

Thanks.

There's actually not an option to fully disable onboard graphics, but I swithed the setting from auto to something like "enable if no PEG installed". I also realised there is a setting for first initiation of graphic card. I had it in default state which was PCI first. I changed that to PCIE x16. Unfortunately that didn't fix the problem. I'm trying reinstalliation now if there was some drivers missing from first installation because of those wrong settings in bios.

---

### Post by Mr.kus on 2011-12-05
No luck with 11.10 yet. Reinstalling with different bios settings didn't help. I tried to install 10.04 and there's no distorted graphics there. I think I'll try upgrading as far as I can and if graphics blowup at some version start to use the version before that.

I find it quite strange that there's no problems with live usb, only after installation.

---

### Post by Mr.kus on 2011-12-05
Same problem with 11.04. Seems like I'll be sticking to version 10 for awhile then. Unless someone has some suggestions for something else to try.

---

### Post by MoreOrLess on 2011-12-07
You have to remove the Catalyst drivers (or better yet, do not install them). You can use vgaswitcheroo and acpi_call to shut off the ATI card to save battery.

---

### Post by christophski on 2012-01-26
Hi, I just got this graphics card and am having the same problem, did you manage to fix it?

---

