---
title: "10.10 on Envy 14 Starts with minimum brightness"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by hypertext on 2010-10-11
Hi guys, put 10.10 on my HP Envy 14 the other day. Generally everything is working well. However, when the system starts up the brightness is always at 0, with the back light fully off. Luckily pressing the increase brightness key makes it fine for that session, until the next boot. I looked under preferences, power management but the brightness there is set to 100%. Not sure if this is a 10.10 issue as I've never put Ubuntu on this laptop before, I waited for 10.10. Any ideas?

---

### Post by cbanbury on 2010-10-11
I have a HP TM2 but my brightness controls do not work. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by rs87424 on 2010-10-19
I have an Acer Aspire with the same problem...one solution is to use [PHP]sudo setpci-s 00:02.0 F4.B= [/PHP] in the terminal which is really a temporary fix but it works... the brightness ranges from 00 to FF pitch black to full brightness.. I have mine set to "40" after the B=..so just put whatever looks best after the B= in the command line... although a permanent fix would be greatly appreciated

---

### Post by megamandos on 2010-10-19
This may sound crazy, but go into your BIOS settings and disable any "Fast boot" type options.

---

### Post by rs87424 on 2010-10-19
well the only thing in my BIOS that says boot is quiet boot and F12 boot... and I don't think I see anything that mentions fast boot

---

### Post by cbanbury on 2010-10-19
> **rs87424 said:**
> I have an Acer Aspire with the same problem...one solution is to use [PHP]sudo setpci-s 00:02.0 F4.B= [/PHP] in the terminal which is really a temporary fix but it works... the brightness ranges from 00 to FF pitch black to full brightness.. I have mine set to "40" after the B=..so just put whatever looks best after the B= in the command line... although a permanent fix would be greatly appreciated

Cheers! I'd completely forgotten about that. Had to do it to get brightness controls to work in lucid. Have you tried adding it to /etc/rc.local?...Would that still mean you need to login 'in the dark' though?

---

### Post by rs87424 on 2010-10-19
well I haven't tried to add it to /etc/rc.local mostly because I am hesitant to do so since I am not too sure how to do that properly without breaking something the temp fix I have seen for a long time and I have just used that without doing anything else... but tips would be much appreciated

---

### Post by cbanbury on 2010-10-19
Just edit /etc/rc.local to include that line. It should work no problem. You can always boot in recovery or from a live cd & change it back if it doesn't work. 

Let me know how you get on. When I have less work on I'll give maverick another go :)...I have the joys of hybrid graphics & tablet pc to deal with too :(

---

### Post by macstevejb on 2010-10-19
yes I have an Acer laptop and I simply added:

setpci-s 00:02.0 F4.B=40

to /etc/rc.local (which needs to be opened as root)

and brightness is automatically set at desired setting at each boot

regards
:)

---

### Post by rs87424 on 2010-10-19
so the keyword or command I needed to know was gedit... and then I put that command in the file and then its at the desired brightness everytime I log in.  My sound doesn't work properly now which I was afraid of because everytime I edit anything something always doesn't work properly afterwords.  when i plug up headphones or speaker to the computer I hear nothing but this crackling noise is there anyway to fix that?

---

### Post by cbanbury on 2010-10-20
Got chance to try this at last & works very nicely :) 
Gr8 to be back on linux at last!

---

### Post by afoglia on 2010-11-07
I too have an Envy 14, but the setpci command is not working for me.  My device is 00:02.0, as seen from lspci:

```

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)

```

And putting

```

setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=40

```

in my rc.local had no effect.  Nor is there any change when I try it from the command-line using sudo, no matter what number I put after the F4.B=.

I see nothing in /var/log/messages or in the output of dmesg.  Is there some other command to try, or some way to debug this one?

---

### Post by resolost on 2010-11-14
> **afoglia said:**
> I too have an Envy 14, but the setpci command is not working for me.  My device is 00:02.0, as seen from lspci:

```

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)

```

And putting

```

setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=40

```

in my rc.local had no effect.  Nor is there any change when I try it from the command-line using sudo, no matter what number I put after the F4.B=.

I see nothing in /var/log/messages or in the output of dmesg.  Is there some other command to try, or some way to debug this one?

I was also having this same problem. You can change your brightness level by editing the file /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness (putting in values of 0 - 10).

I have ubuntu do this at boot by adding the following line to the end of /etc/init.d/rc.local

```
echo 2 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
```

I hope this helps

---

### Post by hypertext on 2010-11-25
> **resolost said:**
> I was also having this same problem. You can change your brightness level by editing the file /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness (putting in values of 0 - 10).

I have ubuntu do this at boot by adding the following line to the end of /etc/init.d/rc.local

```
echo 2 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
```

I hope this helps

Thanks for posting this workaround, finally fixed the issue for me!

---

### Post by chreko on 2011-01-23
I am posting here, because I believe to have an issue which is closely related to the minimum brightness problem described here. 

I am using Ubuntu 10.10 (AMD64) on a HP ENVY 14 with an Intel i5 CPU (and integrated GPU).

Ubuntu in my case also did start with dark screen (minimum brightness set to 0) as described here. Adding "echo 2 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness" to /etc/init.d/rc.local as sugessted did help. Thanks!!!

However, I noticed that settings in gnome-power-manager related to the backlight had no real effects, except on notify-osd. For example, although brightness_dim_battery (LCD dimming amount when on battery) was set to 50, unplugging the notebook had no effects on the brightness, but notify-osd appeared to be reduced by a half.

Furthermore, the notify-osd is still completly out of sync; while it can only be increased and decreased in five steps, the brightness itself can be changed in ten steps. A similar bug was reported here ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd/+bug/351326](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd/+bug/351326)). Adding "acpi_backlight=vendor" as suggested as a solution did deactivate the fn keys (fn+f2 and f3) completely and /sys/class/backlight became empty. However, ubuntu did start with full-bright screen.

I am wondering now if anybody has experienced a similar bug? I have a comment on [https://bugs.launchpad.net/null/+bug/568611/comments/139](https://bugs.launchpad.net/null/+bug/568611/comments/139), but I am not sure if this was the right place to comment.

---

