---
title: "Lenovo T61 Thinkpad Intel GMA X3100 GM965 kubuntu 8.04 dual head [success]"
date: 2008-06-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by canoe529 on 2008-06-30
Hi guys,
A couple of weeks ago I bought a Lenovo T61 Thinkpad with the Intel GM965 graphics card. It came with S.L.E.D. 10, but I had my eye set on kubuntu. The one piece of functionality that was missing was dual-head capability After some investigation and trial-and-error, I came out with a workable solution. 

I have a samsung syncmaster 205BW as my external monitor and wanted the ability to display code on one screen and output on another. This was especially critical since the T61 is smaller than my Inspiron 9300. Using the external monitor would allow me to have as much screen real estate as I want, while having a more portable laptop.

I was disappointed that kubuntu's System Settings...Monitor and Display configuration tool only screwed up my xorg.conf file and left me with no monitors. I ended up editing the xorg.conf file by hand to get the desired results.

This website helped a lot:
[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2)

Hopefully this post will be helpful to anyone else trying to set up dual-head functionality. I am still trying to get the DRI working well enough to make compiz look snappy and run flightgear. 


The commands I use to switch around configurations are:
mirror the display:
xrandr --output LVDS --auto --output VGA --auto --same-as LVDS

dual head:
xrandr --output VGA --auto --left-of LVDS

turn off the external monitor feed: 
xrandr  --output VGA --off

My xorg.conf file is:
[PHP]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Option "DPMS"
        Identifier "Samsung205BW"
        Vendorname "Samsung"
        Modelname "SyncMaster 205BW"
        Horizsync 31.4 - 80.0
        Vertrefresh 56.000 - 75.000
        modeline "1680x1050" 146.25 1680 1784 1960 2240 1050 1053 1059 1089
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
       SubSection "Display"
           #Depth               24
           Modes                "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
           # ADD A VIRTUAL LINE TO PROVIDE FOR THE LARGEST SCREENS YOU WILL HOTPLUG
           Virtual              3360 1050
       EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
[/PHP]

---

### Post by tr45h on 2008-07-09
Have t60 with Radeon Mobility 9000 (RV250) 32MB video RAM

Except of the speed: do xou get compiz to work with 
xrandr --output VGA-0 --left-of LVDS

When I run this kind of dual head setup and start compiz I get strange behaviour:

- windows decrease in size to about 1/4
- can see only left 400 px width the rest of the screen shows background nad i can not move windows to this area

With one head I get it to work but dual head is more important to me than compiz so just a nice to have...

---

