---
title: "Wacom tablet - absolute positioning wanted"
date: 2008-10-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Ole Nielsby on 2008-10-05
Just installed Ubuntu 8 on my laptop with external 1920x1200 screen, using my old Wacom tablet (ET-0405A-U, me thinks it's a Graphire but the cardboard box was incinerated 10 years ago).

This sort of works out of the box but I'm having trouble with the positioning - it doesn't cover the whole screen and I need to perform a series of jerks to get to the "Programs - places - System..." at the top. Fiddling with the mouse settings doesn't help much.

When running same Ubuntu in Sun's VirtualBox on Windows XP, I had absolute positioning (VirtualBox has a guest addition that integrates the mouse pointer). Can I have that on the "real" installation too?

I'm not sure the drivers are installed and I don't know how to check, the [www.wacom.com](www.wacom.com) site repeatedly asks for a plugin I already installed when I try to get at services/drivers. Synaptec allowed me to install the wacom-tools package but I don't think drivers were installed.

My /ext/X11/xorg.conf is like this:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"dk"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by Arcticsoul on 2008-10-05
Click my sig.
From there you can check if your tablet will accept current drivers, and install them.

---

