---
title: "8.04 and 9800GTX Driver Woes"
date: 2008-05-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by BPinard on 2008-05-19
I installed 8.04 earlier today, and the resolution autoconfiguration worked fine.  My monitor is 1600x1200 and I have a 9800GTX hooked up to it.  After installing and running EnvyNG to install the driver I am now trapped in 800x600 with no way of changing the resolution.  I stayed away from editing xorg.conf because I don't really know what I'm doing in there.

After using envy to install the display driver (169.12), the Nvidia X Server Settings shows up in System>Administration.  Upon running it, an error box says "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server."

Well I did that, restarted the x server, and upon running the settings utility again, I get the same message.  I still cannot change the resolution.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-05-19
The problem here is that there isn't yet a released nVidia driver that supports your card.  You'll need the beta nvidia drivers available [here](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.08.html).  You'll then need to follow [this howto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual) to install these drivers manually.

EDIT: What you're actually seeing is the installed nvidia driver trying to load, failing (because it doesn't know how to drive your card), and then X falling back to the VESA driver, which has all sorts of restrictions - such as limited resolutions - but *should* work on all hardware.

---

