---
title: "nVidia GeForce 8800 GT x2 drivers"
date: 2008-11-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Gautam Kok on 2008-11-21
Solved

---

### Post by Franzs on 2008-11-22
Hi Gautam,

Some quick replies, and some questions:

- As u think u installed the drivers with envy, ignoring the warning, do u find them back in /etc/X11/xorg.conf? what configuration is set there?

- What does X tell u when starting up (/var/log/Xorg.0.log)

- What about dmesg? does the kernel see the videocard?

About starting Ubuntu in runlevel 3 without X; U have to disable the gdm, or kdm start up script in /etc/rc3.d/; just remove it and reboot; when u need it later again, u can easily recreate the link.


Just let us know, Good luck

Frans

---

### Post by Gautam Kok on 2008-11-22
Hi Frans,

Thanks for your reply.

My xorg.conf contains the following information:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection


lspci:
> 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 8800 GT (rev a2)
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 8800 GT (rev a2)


---

### Post by SteveNorman on 2008-12-22
you get any luck with the drivers??

---

