---
title: "9.04 not recognising Bluetooth mouse"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tron^qld on 2009-05-01
Ok, only issue that I have with my install is that it won't allow me to use the bluetooth mouse. I am able to find the device, connect to it (well it says that I am able to) and then all seems to be going well till I go to use the mouse. Seems as if it is not connected. I had this setup in 8.10 with no issues, I have the bluetooth setup as always on, did have it setup in 8.10 as temp visible with no issues.

The bluetooth mouse that I have is a Microsoft Bluetooth Notebook Mouse 5000.

Thanks in advance.

tron.

---

### Post by robbie d on 2009-05-01
I also had my bluetooth mouse working fine on 8.10, but I remembered I did have to change the configuration in the console. I had to do this again when I upgraded to 9.04.
I followed the instructions here:
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-setup-bluetooth-keyboard-and-mouse-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/howto-setup-bluetooth-keyboard-and-mouse-in-ubuntu.html)

---

### Post by animelov on 2009-05-01
Actually, I need some help as well.  I have a logitech MX1000 mouse and MX5000 Keyboard (bluetooth, obviously :)).  I have the keyboard working fine, but the mouse is a different story.  I can find the mouse (and i see it in the GUI bluetooth app), I know the MAC address of the mouse, however, I cannot pair with it.

I've tried editing /etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf file and restarting /etc/init.d/bluetooth (bluez-utils doesn't exist), but to no avail.  It was also be worthy to note, hcid.conf didn't exist before, so, other than mouse MAC and name, there is nothing else in the file.

Any ideas?  It's best to assume I'm a noob, I have little linux exposure and I just installed two days ago.  Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by robbie d on 2009-05-02
oh good on me for giving half the answer, I did have to install bluez to get the scan tool to work, and once it was paired, it works better than windows.:lolflag:

---

### Post by animelov on 2009-05-02
Ok, now I'm completely confused.  I installed bluez-utils, and, while it seemed to install, I didn't have anything for it under /etc/init.d.  So, out of my mass frustration, I go back to the gnome bluetooth util and start mashing buttons on my mouse to get it to appear (which it has done before.  But this time, the add button appears, so, I click it...wait about 5 minutes...consider it errored out (because it still says "adding" at this point), and close it out.  While I'm surfing around with my laptop mouse, I reach for the bluetooth mouse out of habit and now it works.

So...I guess bluez-utils did something after all??

---

### Post by GoodPanos on 2009-05-02
Same deal here.  I also have the same exact mouse, Microsoft Bluetooth Notebook Mouse 5000 and it was working like a charm under 8.10.  Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by tcman on 2009-05-03
> **robbie d said:**
> oh good on me for giving half the answer, I did have to install bluez to get the scan tool to work, and once it was paired, it works better than windows.:lolflag:

I'm having same problem with Remix and my MS bluetooth 5000 mouse.
Also I'm a bit new to linux.  Can you explain how to install bluez?

Thanks.

---

### Post by robbie d on 2009-05-03
Sorry people.
When I first opened the /etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf file it was blank also, I put the lines in as it said in the link, putting in the address as found in the scan (when you press the pairing button on the mouse) and after a reboot the mouse worked. My bluetooth transceiver is inside my notebook, i'm not sure if the process is the same for external bluetooth dongles.

---

### Post by robbie d on 2009-05-05
you can install the bluez app through the package manager. Once bluez is installed the information in the link I posted earlier should work.

---

### Post by GoodPanos on 2009-05-06
You should not have to do all that file editing.  It should just work like it did in previous versions.  Add a new device from the bluetooth utils and that's it.

Anyways, I noticed this latest update, Ubuntu put out, had updates to the bluetooth libraries.  I updated my system but did not get a chance to try again.  Has any one tried it out with the latest updates?

---

### Post by GoodPanos on 2009-05-06
Negative, no change.

How did, you get yours working robbie d?

The commands:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/bluez-utils restart
``` and ```
sudo hidd --search
``` don't work.

I have bluez-utils installed but those commands don't work.  To restart I had to use:```
sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth restart
```

I'm puzzled :confused:

---

### Post by robbie d on 2009-05-06
I tried it before the updates, and that's why I had to edit it. When I set the mouse to bind, the bluetooth app would pick it up, accept the pin, finish, but not connect. Clicking the connect button didn't do anything.

after pressing the 'bind' button on the mouse, use hcitool scan to get the MAC of the mouse to enter into the config.

---

### Post by Macr237 on 2009-06-07
> **GoodPanos said:**
> Negative, no change.

How did, you get yours working robbie d?

The commands:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/bluez-utils restart
``` and ```
sudo hidd --search
``` don't work.

I have bluez-utils installed but those commands don't work.  To restart I had to use:```
sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth restart
```

I'm puzzled :confused:

Yep, I have the exact same issue as you. I still can't get it to work.

---

### Post by animelov on 2009-06-07
All in all, my problem wasn't bluez-utils or anything like that.  Turns out, it was my mouse was REALLY touchy when came to being on long enough to accept a pin number (which was 0000, by the way).  Ever since, its been working perfectly, even after updating (my comp is up-to-date with everything as of yesterday).

Hope I can help more if you need it, but honestly, mashing the send pin button (with another/laptop mouse) for five minutes is sadly the best route to go.

---

### Post by acornblue on 2009-06-14
after much trial and error, the working solution for me is to install bluez-compat.  this includes "hidd"

since hidd is being phased out, what is the official alternative?

---

### Post by chavezgvg on 2009-10-15
Hi animelove, I just buy a Microsoft Wireless Notebook Presenter Mouse 8000 and I can't get it to work without the usb transceiver it comes with.  Obviously I want to use the mouse with the internal bluetooth transceiver of my laptop (a Compaq 6710b by the way) just because it's runing Ubuntu 9.04 (and its linux, and everybody else in my office uses Windows, and they use bluetooth mices, and they use the usb transceivers, and I want to claim that in linux I don't have to use it, get it?) anyways, I can't get the mouse to work with the gnome bluetooth utility, but I think you did someting to get yours to work.  I read your posts but still in blank.  Could you please explain again what did you do to get your bluetooth mouse usefull on Jaunty?  Thanks

---

### Post by GoodPanos on 2009-12-23
I would skip it and go to 9.10.  It is fixed in this version.  You can attach a bluetooth mouse from the GUI.

Just FYI, the issue I posted in this thread is no more in 9.10.

:)

---

