---
title: "ASUS N550JV laptop screen backlight adjustment (lubuntu 14.04 &amp; 13.10)"
date: 2013-11-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Remten on 2013-11-09
_Update May 2014: The following also works in Lubuntu 14.04_

I have seen a few threads discussing difficulties using function keys to adjust the screen backlight brightness on certain ASUS laptops.
I want to share what is working for me.

laptop:  ASUS N550JV
gpus:  integrated Intel gpu & NVIDIA GT 750M
Lubuntu 13.10,  3.11.0-13-generic
(I also have xfce4 and xfce4 metapackages installed, but the method described here was tested running in Lubuntu sessions)
Drivers:  Nvidia-319, Nvidia-prime

As indicated above, this is a hybrid-gpu laptop.
I am running nvidia-prime all the time (not worried about laptop power savings at the moment), so not trying to take advantage of Optimus technology power savings. Presumably, the video is generated by the Nvidia gpu, and the data the Nvidia gpu outputs is then transferred to the integrated Intel gpu, which displays it.

my relevant grub settings from /etc/default/grub:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_osi=\"!Windows 2012\""
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

(I have found that using "!Windows 2012" in GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX-DEFAULT, I gained the ability to use Fn+F2 to toggle the wireless radio* on/off, which I did not have when I was using acpi_os="")
* it is an Intel wireless card, substituted for the Atheros that came with the laptop

My /sys/class/backlight folder at default with the above setup contains 3 folders:
/acpi_video0/
/acpi_video1/
/intel_backlight/

The /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/ folder contains these 3 folders: /device/  /power/  /subsystem/
and these files:[INDENT]actual_brightness 
bl_power 
brightness
max_brightness
type
uevent
[/INDENT]

My default setting for brightness was 5100
and the max_brightness value seems to be 5273 (or so)

First, I confirmed that I could control the screen brightness by changing the value stored at /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness:

```
echo 1000 > /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness
```

When I issued this command as root, the screen dimmed. It then brightened back up after using echo to change the value back to 5100.

So here is what to do:

**(1)**[COLOR=#0000cd]** Create two scripts**[/COLOR], one to tell the Intel driver to dim the screen, and one to tell it to brighten the screen, acting in steps.

/home/yourname/.scripts/screen_dimmer.sh
/home/yourname/.scripts/screen_brighter.sh

I placed the scripts in my home folder, within a  /.scripts/ folder I have there.

Make sure the scripts have permissions to be executed.

```
sudo chmod +x /home/yourname/.scripts/screen_dimmer.sh
sudo chmod +x /home/yourname/.scripts/screen_brighter.sh
```

Here are the scripts:

screen_dimmer.sh script:
```
#!/bin/bash
screenbrightness=$(cat "/sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness")
makenow=$((screenbrightness-1000))

if [ "$screenbrightness" -gt 100 ]
then
echo $makenow >> /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness
fi
```

```
#!/bin/bash
screenbrightness=$(cat "/sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness")
makenow=$((screenbrightness+1000))

if [ "$screenbrightness" -lt 5100 ]
then
echo $makenow >> /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness
fi
```

(I chose the increments/decrements to be 1000, giving about 5 steps, but you could probably increase the number of steps by using smaller values than 1000. You may also be able to lower the lowest level of brightness even further by changing the decrement value and by changing the 100 in the "-gt 100" expression to a lower value. I haven't tested this.)

Add one line to the [COLOR=#0000cd]rc.local[/COLOR] file that on every boot will give all users permission to change the file.
the line is 
```
 chmod 666 /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness
```

the line goes right before the "exit 0" so that the file looks like this after the addition:

```
#By default this script does nothing

chmod 666 /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness
exit 0
```

**(2)** Next, it's necessary to **[COLOR=#0000cd]remap the keyboard[/COLOR]** so that you can call up one of the scripts with the press of a key. To do this, we need to install [COLOR=#0000cd]xbindkeys[/COLOR] and its configuration GUI, [COLOR=#0000cd]xbindkeys-config[/COLOR].

```
sudo apt-get install xbindkeys xbindkeys-config
```

create a configuration file for xbindkeys and put a few default settings in it:
```
xbindkeys -d > /home/yourname/.xbindkeysrc
```

Now launch the xbindkeys configuration GUI from a terminal:
```
xbindkeys-config
```

a window will open
click on "New" at the bottom

choose a name for your function, and type that name in the box on the upper right under "Edit" in the space next to "Name:"
This is just to remind you what this function does if you need to change things in the future.
(for example, I chose "screen_dimmer" - without the quotes - for the name for lowering the backlight brightness)

click on "Get Key" just slightly below where you typed the function name
a window will open on the desktop
press the key you want to assign the screen backlight lowering function to
(I chose F5 on the top row of the keyboard, without the Fn key)

next type the location of your script for lowering the screen   brightness in the box next to "Action:", in the space where it says   "Command"
[COLOR=#0000cd] /home/yourname/.scripts/screen_dimmer.sh[/COLOR]

If you now click on Run Action, the screen should dim slightly, assuming there were no errors up to this point.

click Apply, then click Save & Apply & Exit
(you probably can get away with just clicking Apply and then directly   going on to set the next key-binding instead of first clicking Save   & Apply & Exit (which forces you to have to relaunch the GUI),   but I haven't tried it that way)

relaunch the configuration GUI with xbindkeys-config in the terminal (if   necessary because you clicked Save & Apply & Exit in the last   step)

repeat the above steps for assigning a key to a function, this time   choosing a name for the raising-the-screen-backlight-brightness   function (I chose "screen_brighter"), and getting the key press   that you want to activate that function (I chose F6, without the Fn key)   and supplying the location of the script
[COLOR=#0000cd]/home/yourname/.scripts/screen_brighter.sh[/COLOR]

then Apply,
Save & Apply & Exit[/QUOTE]

I realize this may not be the most efficient way to achieve the desired results, but it is at least better than nothing.

edit: While testing this for 14.04, I found that I needed to change the permission on /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness for the scripts to be able to access (write to) the file. I must have also done that for 13.10, but forgot to include it in the instructions.

---

### Post by Remten on 2014-05-17
A quick test shows that sending a value of 0 to the backlight controller will shut the screen light off:
```
 sudo echo 0 >> /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness
```

That should be easy enough to implement in the screen backlight dimmer script.
Or maybe even a separate keystroke sequence dedicated to turning the screen to black.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2014-05-18
So what do you get if you enter in terminal cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep backlight

---

### Post by Remten on 2014-05-18
> **jeremy31 said:**
> So what do you get if you enter in terminal cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep backlight

```
Remten@linux:~$ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep backlight
Remten@linux:~$
```

Nothing.
Why do you ask?

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2014-05-18
I have 4 different laptops, all have intel video on them

Two of them return this from cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep backlight and I haven't changed any settings

found backlight control interface acpi_video0

On one laptop, I put a file in /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/ called 20-intel.conf and that file contains
> Section "Device"    Identifier  "Intel Graphics"
    Driver      "intel"
    Option      "Backlight"       "intel_backlight" # use your backlight that works here
    Driver      "intel"
    BusID       "PCI:0:2:0"
 EndSection

and the terminal command gives me > [    25.410] (**) intel(0): Option "Backlight" "intel_backlight"[    25.411] (**) intel(0): found backlight control interface intel_backlight (type 'user')


  This machine also needed "acpi_backlight=vendor" in grub to keep it from booting at 0 brightness with kernel 3.11, this also removed the acpi_video0 from /sys/class/backlight/ and replaced it with thinkpad_backlight or something

And with kernel 3.13 there is another option " video.use_native_backlight=1" that seems to work on some video cards.

I probably have messed around looking for options in case my next laptop has issues, even created scripts like yours and bound the scripts to CTRL+UP-ARROW and CTRL+DOWN-ARROW just for the sake of testing.

Do your attempts to use you original FN+ shortcuts registering anything in dmesg?

---

### Post by Remten on 2014-05-18
> **jeremy31 said:**
> Do your attempts to use you original FN+ shortcuts registering anything in dmesg?

I don't know how to use dmesg to check. (And am too worn out at this point to play around with the current configuration to see.) However, I can tell you what I got when I scanned keypresses with xev when I was initially trying to get the Fn keys working (back with lubuntu 13.10, kernel 3.11), according to my notes:

[TABLE="width: 800, align: left"]
[TR]
[TD][B]key
[/B][/TD]
[TD]**keycode**[/TD]
[TD]**keyscan**[/TD]
[TD]**state***[/TD]
[TD]**acpi_listen**[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]F5[/TD]
[TD]71[/TD]
[TD]0xffc2, F5[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[TD]^[[15~[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]Fn+F5[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]F6[/TD]
[TD]72[/TD]
[TD]0xffc3, F6[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[TD]^[[17~[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD]Fn+F6[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[TD]nothing[/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]
The <Fn> key pressed by itself didn't register anything.

*By comparison, pressing pressing Fn+F8 triggered a "state" of "XF86TouchpadToggle"

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2014-05-18
I would want to talk to sandman007 from this thread [http://rog.asus.com/forum/showthread.php?41681-G75VW-Fn-Keys-Not-Working-For-Screen-Brightness-In-Linux](http://rog.asus.com/forum/showthread.php?41681-G75VW-Fn-Keys-Not-Working-For-Screen-Brightness-In-Linux)

You might see something with dmesg | tail in terminal after trying a FN+ combo that isn't recognized

And you could check the hidden file .xsession-errors in your home directory

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2014-05-19
What do you get from xinput in terminal?  Actually you just need the ID of the virtual core keyboard, mine was 3 so I used xinput --test-xi2 3 to see the results of the FN+ keypresses

---

### Post by Remten on 2014-05-19
> **jeremy31 said:**
> What do you get from xinput in terminal?  Actually you just need the ID of the virtual core keyboard, mine was 3 so I used xinput --test-xi2 3 to see the results of the FN+ keypresses

With cursor moved to random place on the screen:

<F5> produces 
event type:  13  (RawKeyPress)
device:  3 (14)
detail:  71
valuators:

<Fn><F5> produces
nothing

.xsession-errors shows no relevant errors (and doesn't change with the key presses)

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2014-05-20
dmesg | grep unknown or dmesg | tail might show a report after an unknown keypress

---

### Post by Remten on 2014-05-20
dmesg  | grep unknown
and
dmesg | tail
produce nothing in response to <Fn><F5>

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2014-05-20
Any updated video drivers available?  If you see nothing in dmesg it has to mean the key press is acknowledged and ends up somewhere that doesn't know how to handle it.  I sent a message to sandman007 about his fixes to his laptop but he said his laptop FN+ buttons work perfectly with 14.04

---

### Post by fde-be on 2015-02-23
Hi guys,

Simply adding "acpi_osi=" at the end of the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT value in /etc/default/grub enabled the brightness keys for me. No need for all the scripts and xbindkeys thing.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2208852&p=12991582#post12991582](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2208852&p=12991582#post12991582)

Hope it helps!

---

