---
title: "10.10 Logitech headset not working... help!"
date: 2011-01-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by welwitschia on 2011-01-03
I am a week-old newbie to Ubuntu. 

Here's what I tried:
1. Put logitech USB headset in USB-port.
2. Opened sound preferences.
3. Headset was recognised in "Hardware", "Input" and "Output" so I selected it.
4. Closed sound preferences.
5. Opened sound preferences again and it had re-selected internal audio of my laptop.

Why? How can I save the headset settings? It works, but won't "stick".

Please help, there's probably a really simple answer that I just don't get.

---

### Post by ejwkamstra on 2011-02-10
**[PARTIALY SOLVED] Re: Logitech USB headset won't work in ubuntu 10.10... help?** 			
 			 			 		   		 		 		Ok. Here is what I did.

Open a terminal and type 'alsamixer' (without the quotes). Than press  'F6'. It will open a small windows. Go with the cursors to your headset  and 'ENTER'. Now you can use the cursor 'up' to get the volume up and  the headset working. When you also want the mic go up, than first cursor  'right' and than 'up'. 'esc' is getting you out of here and saves this  for this session.

Hope I helped someone with this :grin:

ejwkamstra

---

### Post by AliceKingsley on 2011-02-12
That fixed the same issue for me. Thanks a ton. :KS

---

### Post by AliceKingsley on 2011-02-12
Actually, alsamixer just made my system volume loud enough that until someone pointed it out I *thought* the sound was coming from my headset. So I'm still looking for a fix. 

The way I tried through the gui was System Settings -> Multimedia -> Phonon and moved all of the Logitech options to the top of my preferences. 

Any help would be great.

---

