---
title: "8.10 Sound Problems"
date: 2008-11-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Zifnab06 on 2008-11-11
Hi All, 

I'm having some problems with my laptop running Intrepid Ibex. The sound works (almost) perfectly, after doing some hacking for the HDA intel card. The guide on the wiki([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto)) got the speakers to work. The only problem I'm having now are headphones. I cannot get the headphone jack to work. When I plug my headphones in, the speakers shut off (as expected) and if I'm somewhere quiet, you can hear very silent sound coming of them. I know it is not the headphone jack, it worked under Vista while I had it installed. Also, the headphones aren't bad because they work with my mp3 player. 


Is there anyway to fix the headphone problem? 

Thanks, 

Tom

---

### Post by kostkon on 2008-11-11
> **Zifnab06 said:**
> Hi All, 

I'm having some problems with my laptop running Intrepid Ibex. The sound works (almost) perfectly, after doing some hacking for the HDA intel card. The guide on the wiki([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto)) got the speakers to work. The only problem I'm having now are headphones. I cannot get the headphone jack to work. When I plug my headphones in, the speakers shut off (as expected) and if I'm somewhere quiet, you can hear very silent sound coming of them. I know it is not the headphone jack, it worked under Vista while I had it installed. Also, the headphones aren't bad because they work with my mp3 player. 


Is there anyway to fix the headphone problem? 

Thanks, 

Tom
Have you checked your volume levels (i.e. the hardware ones, if there are any) by right clicking on the small speaker in your taskbar and selecting *Open Volume Control*.

In then *Volume Control*, select *Edit -> Preferences* and see if all the available volumes that you can edit are selected.

There may be exist a volume level that controls the volume of the headphone jack.

---

### Post by Zifnab06 on 2008-11-11
I went through and enabled everything in the sound control applet. 

What shows up:

Playback: Master PCM Front PC Beep

Recording: Master Capture 1 Digital MUX MUX 1

Switches: IEC958 "IEC958 Default PCM" Anologue Loopback

There is also an options tab, allowing me to switch playback from IEC958 Playback Source, then all the mic inputs. 

I've gone through and tried to change everythign in here. So I (think) its set up right. I'm still confused why it shouldn't be working :(

Thanks, 
Tom

---

### Post by james.wilde on 2008-11-12
Thank you, Kostkon, that fixed it for me!

//James

---

### Post by ullivilli on 2008-11-23
Opened the sound manager, opend preferences and started adding different volume controls. Then unmuted them one by one.
One that worked for me was the surround control.
No logic in there, because everything works as it should: when I insert headphones the speakers shut up and sound comes from headphones only\\:D/

---

