---
title: "8.10 upgrade - 2.6.27-7 won't boot.  2.6.24-21 will."
date: 2008-11-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by FunkeyMonk on 2008-11-21
I'm running a Toshiba Satellite M115 Laptop.

After I upgraded my Hardy Heron installation to Intrepid Ibex, my laptop won't boot the newest Linux Kernel.  (2.6.27-7-generic)   It boots partway and hangs on the progress bar.   I can select the older kernel (2.6.24-21-generic) with GRUB, and it boots just fine.

If I run 2.6.27-7-generic in recovery mode, it hangs on the following text:
```
[21.250837] cs: IO port probe 0x100-0x3af: clean.
[21.253559} cs: IO port probe 0x3e0-0x4ff:

```

And the cursor just blinks after the 0x4ff:

So I'm guessing there's some hardware in my laptop that the new kernel doesn't like and can't probe.   I have nothing plugged into my USB ports, ethernet, or PCMCIA slots. 

Is there some way I can try to boot the new kernel without it checking whatever is at IO port 0x3e0-0x4ff?

---

### Post by gridbug on 2008-11-28
I encountered the same when upgrading to Ibex (2.6.27-7-generic and now 2.6.27-10-generic) from Hardy (2.6.24-21-generic) on a Toshiba Satellite A105-S2141.  After a lot of digging (eg: upgrading drivers and kernels, tweaking configurations, disabling drivers), I still haven't been able to track down exactly what change is causing the hang.  But I do have a workaround for you.

Something appears to have changed in the way that PCMCIA IO port probes are done or the ranges are allocated.  In /etc/pcmcia/config.opts the range 0x3e0-0x4ff is clean/okay under 2.6.24-21-generic, clean but semi-stable (graphics corruption, loss of sound) under 2.6.25-2-generic, and causes hangs under 2.6.27-7-generic, 2.6.27-8-generic and 2.6.27-10-generic.  The workaround is to either a) comment out the line, or b) if you are stubborn like me :-) keep adjusting the range until you figure out which part(s) of it is causing the hang.

On my A105-S2141 there is something using the 0x400-0x40f range that doesn't react well to being probed by a recent kernel.  Until I've figured out what device that is, in /etc/pcmcia/config.opts I have replaced:
include port 0x3e0-0x4ff
with:
include port 0x3e0-0x3ff
# Causing hangs on boot: include port 0x400-0x40f
include port 0x410-0x4ff

---

### Post by FunkeyMonk on 2008-12-17
> **gridbug said:**
>  The workaround is to either a) comment out the line, or b) if you are stubborn like me :-) keep adjusting the range until you figure out which part(s) of it is causing the hang.

On my A105-S2141 there is something using the 0x400-0x40f range that doesn't react well to being probed by a recent kernel.  Until I've figured out what device that is, in /etc/pcmcia/config.opts I have replaced:
include port 0x3e0-0x4ff
with:
include port 0x3e0-0x3ff
# Causing hangs on boot: include port 0x400-0x40f
include port 0x410-0x4ff

Thanks very much for your help, gridbug! I got it to boot by commenting out the line... and since I've never used a PCMCIA card in my life, it doesn't bother me very much.

  FWIW, the kernel has been updated since this thread started, and 2.6.27-9 still has the same problem.  So this is obviously a bug in the kernel that the developers aren't addressing.   Forgive me for being a n00b, folks, but where would I submit this bug to be fixed?   It's definitely a serious problem, since it means the Toshiba 105s (and maybe some other similar laptops) can't boot Ibex, even from a live CD.

---

