---
title: "10.10 Maverick backlight brightness adjustment problem"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tiddlydum on 2010-10-12
The backlight's brightness will not change, with neither the fn keys, applet, automatically or with xbacklight. This was a problem I encountered with 10.04, but that was fixed using "nomodeset acpi_backlight=vendor". However, this does not work in 10.10, and actually leads to x server not starting, giving a screen not found error. I've seen a lot of unresolved posts about this, covering many laptops, but for clarification, I'm using an Acer Aspire 5738. Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Arla on 2010-10-12
I'm having the same problem on my Lenovo (Y450), I'm torn right now on whether to revert to 10.04 since that worked properly, but I lose all the program updates :(

There was a bug-report on launchpad about it, and the implication was this was unlikely to be fixed for a long time.

---

### Post by tiddlydum on 2010-10-12
Oh really? In that case I might revert. I'm not missing much, cos I install most of my stuff outside the package manager. I do hope they fix it, I have no idea why it's happening.

---

### Post by Arla on 2010-10-12
This was the [bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/631412"), no clue what any of it really means (it's WAY over my head) but the implication is that it may not be fixed for a while, although the last comments from Robert Hooker also imply that it's already been fixed upstream so erm, not sure.

I'm going to probably revert to 10.04 tonight, and then wait for a bit because I'm also having issues with Suspend in 10.10 (sometimes it just fails, but it seems to be very intermittent) 10.04 was solid as a rock, and while I'd like to have the latest Digikam updates, I'll live with the older version for now.

---

### Post by tiddlydum on 2010-10-12
Looks like there's a workaround. I'll post more soon.

---

### Post by Arla on 2010-10-12
> **tiddlydum said:**
> Looks like there's a workaround. I'll post more soon.

I'll be interested to see, I know I can manually call setpci to change the brightness, but it's a clunky fix at best, yes it does work, but I think for the price I'll go back to 10.04 and wait for 11.04 to see if that can resolve the issue.

Anyway, if you find a workaround other than the setpci command I'd definitely be interested in hearing.

---

### Post by tiddlydum on 2010-10-12
That was the workaround I was looking at :D well, I'm seeing if another fix works, and if it doesn't, I'm reverting too.

---

### Post by rs87424 on 2010-10-13
> **tiddlydum said:**
> The backlight's brightness will not change, with neither the fn keys, applet, automatically or with xbacklight. This was a problem I encountered with 10.04, but that was fixed using "nomodeset acpi_backlight=vendor". However, this does not work in 10.10, and actually leads to x server not starting, giving a screen not found error. I've seen a lot of unresolved posts about this, covering many laptops, but for clarification, I'm using an Acer Aspire 5738. Any help would be greatly appreciated.

yeah i am also using an Acer Aspire with the same problem.  I tried to use the brightness app but it didn't work either.  earlier versions of ubuntu had this problem as well and the fix was relatively simple but I haven't found anything to fix this one yet..keep looking

---

### Post by SilverDrake11 on 2010-10-15
Yea I'm running 64bit Maverick on an Ideapad Y450, and I have the exact same problem. In 10.04, I was able to fix it appending that line to the grub config file, but now that results in the xserver not starting.

---

### Post by ceefour on 2010-10-28
I also cannot control my LCD display brightness of Lenovo Ideapad Z360 in Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick.

**SOLUTION FOUND!!!!**

See: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/dell/+bug/568611/comments/77](https://bugs.launchpad.net/dell/+bug/568611/comments/77)

---

### Post by rs87424 on 2010-10-28
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1570218](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1570218)

I found a fix there... temporary fix.

---

### Post by nikhilsista on 2010-11-02
> **Arla said:**
> I'm having the same problem on my Lenovo (Y450), I'm torn right now on whether to revert to 10.04 since that worked properly, but I lose all the program updates :(

There was a bug-report on launchpad about it, and the implication was this was unlikely to be fixed for a long time.


Hello,

Can anyone let me know how can this issue be fixed in Ubuntu 10.04 version ???

I'm using Y450 Lenovo Ideapad !


Appreciate your time !!

---

### Post by escaflowne on 2010-11-03
> **nikhilsista said:**
> Hello,

Can anyone let me know how can this issue be fixed in Ubuntu 10.04 version ???

I'm using Y450 Lenovo Ideapad !


Appreciate your time !!

edit /etc/default/grub:

change:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=”quiet splash”

to

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=”quiet splash nomodeset acpi_backlight=vendor”

---

### Post by Kramer2010 on 2010-12-11
> **escaflowne said:**
> edit /etc/default/grub:

change:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=&#8221;quiet splash&#8221;

to

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=&#8221;quiet splash nomodeset acpi_backlight=vendor&#8221;

Try this, from a site called living in java

To those who have problem with brightness configuration after installing Ubuntu 10.10 and you are using Acer Aspire 4741, here's a solution for you:

sudo gedit /etc/default/grub

Change the line GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="" into
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi_osi=Linux"

sudo update-grub

Restart your linux

Note this fix also works with a packard bell easynote tj68

---

### Post by AcidWarp on 2010-12-19
I'm having a similar problem with my Aspire 5672WLMi with a few differences:

First, my Fn keys for brightness do, in fact, work.  However; I have no backlight brightness slider in gnome-power-manager, and the backlight does not auto-dim under any circumstances (ie, when idling, switching to battery), and none of the fixes here work for me (setpci does, but it's annoying as hell).  On the plus side, when I use "nomodeset acpi_backlight=vendor" xorg doesn't crash, I just get no result.  Oh, before I forget, I do not have any hardware backlight settings in the BIOS.

Any ideas would be appreciated.  I realize that since my fn keys work, I'm only looking for a convenience fix.

---

### Post by fishbulb1022 on 2011-03-11
> SOLUTION FOUND!!!!

See: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/dell/+bug/568611/comments/77](https://bugs.launchpad.net/dell/+bug/568611/comments/77)

This worked perfectly for me on an Acer Aspire 7740.

---

### Post by heian on 2011-03-31
Hi,

I got a Lenovo Y-450 with the GT-240M video card.

After installing ubuntu 10.1 the brightness function works out of the box.
However after installing the proprietary drivers, it doesn't.

The actual fix:

Open a terminal window and type:

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

On the &#8220;DEVICE&#8221; section append the following line:

Option "RegistryDwords" "EnableBrightnessControl=1"

Log back in and your done!


(This works for ubuntu 10.04 and 10.10)



off topic: can someone tell me if the GT-240M on the Y-450  is a
1Gb or 512Mb dedicated memory?
I thought it was 1Gb, but sysinfo gives 512Mb. just curious....

---

### Post by heian on 2011-06-18
hi,

After a clean install on ubuntu 11.04 on the same laptop,
Lenovo Y-450 with the GT-240M video card.
the brightness problem appears again, after installing the restricted video-driver.

The above solution didn't work now anymore.

Anyone who got a workaround for it?

---

