---
title: "[14.04] Can't scan with SCX-3200"
date: 2014-04-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by debsid on 2014-04-22
Hi everyone,

My multifunction Samsung SCX3200 printer is well detected, but I can't use the scanner on Trusty Tahr (native install, no VM). Print is fine.
> $ **lsusb**
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 0a5c:5800 Broadcom Corp. BCM5880 Secure Applications Processor
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0003 Linux Foundation 3.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 046d:c50e Logitech, Inc. Cordless Mouse Receiver
Bus 003 Device 007: **ID 04e8:3441 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd **
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub


The IDs are properly set in udev and sane.d configuration:
> $ cat /lib/udev/rules.d/40-libsane.rules | grep 3441
ATTRS{idVendor}=="04e8", ATTRS{idProduct}=="3441", ENV{libsane_matched}="yes"
$ cat /etc/sane.d/xerox_mfp.conf | grep 3441
usb 0x04e8 0x3441


Yet, sane-find-scanner can't find the scanner:
> $ sudo sane-find-scanner -q
$ *(no output)*
$ sudo scanimage -L

No scanners were identified. If you were expecting something different,
check that the scanner is plugged in, turned on and detected by the
sane-find-scanner tool (if appropriate). Please read the documentation
which came with this software (README, FAQ, manpages).
$


Simple scan will just show a "Unable to start scan" error.

Also tried:
- Adding myself to saned and scanner groups
- Power cyling the printer
- Switching USB port (USB2 <-> USB3)
- Restarting the udev service

The scanner is supposed to be working OOTB since 12.10. So far, no luck, I'm stuck.

Any idea ? Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by pdc on 2014-04-22
if we see if you are a member of the right groups

> [COLOR="#FF0000"]grep -e scanner /etc/group[/COLOR]

> [COLOR="#FF0000"]grep -e lp /etc/group[/COLOR]

and other searching commands

> [COLOR="#FF0000"]scanimage -L[/COLOR]

> [COLOR="#FF0000"]sudo sane-find-scanner[/COLOR]

> [COLOR="#FF0000"]sudo scanimage -L[/COLOR]

________________________--

I notice on this page [http://www.sane-project.org/man/sane-xerox_mfp.5.html](http://www.sane-project.org/man/sane-xerox_mfp.5.html) (which is page for the backend sane-xerox that is for your type of device)

that it refers to the file /etc/sane.d/xerox_mfp.conf  .............and all the references to Samsung-type devices should be in there: yours is not:

check by pasting > [COLOR="#FF0000"]gedit /etc/sane.d/xerox_mfp.conf[/COLOR]     into a terminal; it opens gedit as read-only;

it says things like

> 
#Samsung SCX-4623
usb 0x04e8 0x3434

#Samsung SCX-4623FW
usb 0x04e8 0x3440

I feel it should say

> 
[COLOR="#008000"]#Samsung SCX-3200
usb 0x04e8 0x3441[/COLOR]

now if you want to; you can add that entry to that file; first close gedit and then paste  > [COLOR="#FF0000"]gksu /etc/sane.d/xerox_mfp.conf[/COLOR] .into a terminal to now gedit with read/write powers......now make room in the file and copy and paste in what I say for your device; as that is its ID: SAVE: CLOSE; 

If that doesn't sit comfortably with you, email the maintainer of the file who is mentioned in the above link; and talk to him

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-04-23
how did you install the drivers for printer? which version do you use?

---

### Post by debsid on 2014-04-23
Thanks for your answers.

Mastablasta, there is no need to install a driver since 12.04, just need to make sure the scanner ID is set up in the conf files.
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/88700/how-do-i-get-a-samsung-scx3200-multifunction-printer-scanner-working](http://askubuntu.com/questions/88700/how-do-i-get-a-samsung-scx3200-multifunction-printer-scanner-working)

As shown above, the configuration appears to be correct.

pdc, as you may have seen in my first post, the IDs are already set up in the conf files, and I also added myself in the proper groups. I also gave the output of sane-find-scanner and scanimage -L, which is void.

---

### Post by debsid on 2014-04-23
[SIZE=1](double post)[/SIZE]

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-04-23
ah that is good to know. i've still added the latest stable drivers via PPA.

---

### Post by debsid on 2014-04-23
I don't want to install an external driver and potentially pollute my system with some cruft and dependancy mess when it's supposed to be working out of the box.

Any other insight? Should I fill a bug report?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-04-24
ha! ye,s probably it should work. however i just had piece of hardware that was working normally out of the box stop working. noone really seem to know why suddenly it stopped working or what caused it. 

with 13.10 upgrade i saw a another ubuntu certified, linux preloaded laptop not having all it's hardware working as was before. i too can not comprehend this, especially with hardware but a couple of years old. one even only a couple of months. and certified hardware, hardware that was and still is working nicely on 12.04.

PPA uses package manager to resolve dependencies. this PPA : [http://www.bchemnet.com/suldr/](http://www.bchemnet.com/suldr/)
was created because the default linux driver that came with printers on CD did not work and Samsung didn't patch it at the time. it is explained more in the link i provided. their current installer seems to also work, but i am not sure if 3200 is well supported. i installed *suld-driver-4.00.39* package. i use SCX-3205 and i have it connected to winXP and i am using it for print via samba.

all i am saying it might work and porbably won't hurt to try it. at least until you get the opensource solution, that should already work, working.

---

### Post by debsid on 2014-04-25
I've opened a bug report, if anyone is also affected by this, please add yourself to the affected users.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sane-backends/+bug/1312594](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sane-backends/+bug/1312594)

---

