---
title: "amd hd 4570"
date: 2013-04-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by adrian89 on 2013-04-16
Can someone tell me,the reason, why legacy drivers doesn't work in ubuntu?
I need only the reason,not help.I am using open source driver on my amd hd 4570 and I know the alternative in case I want for gaming,which I don't I prefer w7 for that.
Im curious why legacy drivers don't work on ubuntu and work on windows.(since they are designed for legacy cards)

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2013-04-16
If you take a look at the bottom of the legacy driver page [here]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/legacy/Pages/legacy-radeon_linux.aspx") you can see that states as its requirements an Xorg server up to version 1.12 and a kernel up to version 3.4.

The latest versions of Ubuntu (12.04.2 and 12.10) both have Xorg version 1.13 and a later kernel, so the legacy driver isn't compatible with them.
This isn't a Ubuntu issue, any modern Linux OS which uses the latest versions of Xorg and the kernel won't work with the legacy driver.

It would probably be trivial for AMD to rebuild the driver against the latest versions of Xorg and the kernel so that it would work, however, they have decided not to do this.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-04-16
> **adrian89 said:**
> ...Im curious why legacy drivers don't work on ubuntu and work on windows.(since they are designed for legacy cards)
Also ... 

Linux uses X-windows for desktop graphics, Windows does not.  So, changing the X-server version (as was done with Ubuntu 12.04.2 and 12.10) would have no effect on the Windows drivers at all.

And ...

AMD decided to update their legacy driver for Catalyst 13.1 for Windows (to work with Win8); they have not (and are not going to) update their Linux legacy driver to work with X-server versions 1.13 and newer.

---

### Post by adrian89 on 2013-04-16
Oh,thanks for your answers.

---

