---
title: "Nvidia driver problem loggin in"
date: 2009-07-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by drbee on 2009-07-19
Hi,

I have a problem with the nvidia driver ( tried all of them) that is driving me mad. 

I installed the driver no problem and i am currently running version 185.18. I tried all versions to see if it fixes my problem with no luck. i am on 9.04 64bit
Basically when i start the pc gdm flashes 3 times and enter the debug video mode, but if i log to terminal and run sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop, wait a few seconds ( i have to wait) and then sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start, everything works fine:confused:. 
Everytime i log out or restart i have to do the proccess again. 
Initially i thought it was the driver but i think is something in gdm configuration. 

Here are my logs and my xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Wed May 27 01:58:49 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Thanks!

---

### Post by drbee on 2009-07-20
just tried sudo nano -w /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common 
  
 change 
  
     DISABLED_MODULES=”" 
  
 in 
  
     DISABLED_MODULES=”nv nvidia_new”

but same result:(

Anyone pls ?

---

### Post by drbee on 2009-07-21
bump

---

### Post by drbee on 2009-07-24
I finally understood where the problem is. I reinstalled ubuntu 32bit and it worked straight away without issues but as soon as i changed the login option to automatically login it stopped working doing the same thing again. I then disable automatic login and it worked again.. Hope there is a fix for this...

---

### Post by drbee on 2009-07-25
Ok it wasn't the log in. I spent hours reviewing the logs but i can't find any error on them. 

Does anybody know where should i look? Can i run some kind of debug mode where i can see what is happening.

Also I started startx from the command line and with that there is no issue. Tried hundreds time with no faults so the problem is definately gdm!

Please help:(

---

