---
title: "Nvidia 180 - GeForce 7150M Help!!!"
date: 2009-09-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by wcGary83 on 2009-09-07
Hi!

I am installing a new jaunty installation in a Hp dv9910us, which has a GeForce 7150M video card.  At first, Ubuntu didn't detect the available Nvivia 180 driver and was set at 800x600, but after updating it showed up in hardware drivers.  When I installed version 180 and restarted, the resolution was kept at 800x600 instead of 1440x900 like it should be.  The screen is now cut off at the bottom, stopping me from making any changes to the resolution because I can't select apply or Ok!!! I have failed to find a way to adjust the resolution with the screen cut off like that... Is there another way???

Thanks!
Gary

---

### Post by bogdan.veringioiu on 2009-09-08
Hi.

After you set the resolution, try to hit tab, this will move the focus to the next element of the GUI. Then you can press enter.
Now, it depends on the position of the buttons on the window, you might have to try several tabs, until the focus arrives on the "apply" or "ok" button.

Cheers.

---

### Post by RabidWeezle on 2009-09-08
I suggest doing:

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

then
For ubuntu:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```
for kubuntu:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/kdm restart
```

If it went well you should be set.
___________________________________________________________________________
If you still are at 800x600 then

alt+f2

```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

and set the proper resolution and click apply, and save to xorg.conf
__________________________________________________________________________
Though, let me suggest getting your drivers right from nvidia.com then:

[LIST]
[*]ctrl+alt+f1
[*]login with your username and password
[*]cd /to/directory/you/downloaded/driver/to
[*]sudo sh <name of binary driver you downloaded>
[*]install it and let it edit your xorg.conf when it asks.
[*]reboot when it's complete
[/LIST]

The difference here though is, you will need to keep the driver installer handy for every time the kernel gets updated.

---

### Post by wcGary83 on 2009-09-08
Thanks so much for your help!

I managed to set the resolution to 1440x900 by setting up a desktop wall and sliding the window down... Now, I have a problem where it does not save this configuration upon reboot. I ran nvidia-settings from a root terminal, selected save to x configuration file, and tried both merging files and not... I also tried setting the resolution both manually, and selecting auto. When I select auto, it automatically sets itself to 1440x900. At any time, it lists 1440x900 as the best fit resolution.  Why is it being so stubborn?

p.s. I'm running gnome

Thanks!
Gary


also... I have downloaded the latest driver from nvidia, but am hesitant to install it as the computer is for a friend (soon to be converted from windows) and probably won't be able to handle the driver breaking upon updates... but if that is whats needed, then I certainly will!

---

### Post by RabidWeezle on 2009-09-08
I'm half-awake, so does this mean it's fixed now? If not, paste your /etc/X11/xorg.conf in here. And only try to change resolutions in nvidia-settings (as root) since the other app to change resolutions won't work on nvidia drivers. Also, when you start X, do you see the Nvidia logo (like a full splash screen when X starts)

---

### Post by wcGary83 on 2009-09-08
Thanks so much for the help!

Yes, it is still resetting to 800x600 upon restart.  I do see the nvidia splash on startup, and the driver is running.  It just won't start at 1440x900!  Here is a copy of my xorg.conf...


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CMO"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7150M / nForce 630M"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1440x900 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by wcGary83 on 2009-09-08
update: this could be associated, when shutting down X using  

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

the screen goes into a weird grey-scale with black horizontal lines, obviously some sort of error state... it does not go to a console...

it also does this for a few seconds on shutdown... could this be related?

---

### Post by wcGary83 on 2009-09-09
Please Help!!!

---

