---
title: "Asus T91 12.04 installation"
date: 2012-06-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by onebir on 2012-06-27
[38 pages](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1237709&page=38) of posts seemed a bit much so here's a brand new Asus T91 thread. Yeaaaayyyy. 

On initial login screen is distorted (desktop in top half only). It may be necessary to select "recovery mode" at the grub menu and then resume. It may also be necessary to go into terminal (ctrl+alt+f1) & restart X ```
sudo service lightdm restart
```

[Q: why does this restart X?]

1) To get boot into graphical environment working:

```
gksudo leafpad /etc/default/grub
```

edit line starting GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT to read:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet console=tty1"
```

save and exit, then update grub with

sudo update-grub

(Fixes adapted by trial and error from [Poulsbo driver wiki](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo))

(At some point during this process I was prompted to update the system - this didn't seem to be critical but what do I know.)

Now the T91 boots into the Xubuntu desktop, and:
- wifi works
- Youtube plays acceptably in window
- Volume keys work. Webcam works (tested in Cheese).
- Speakers work
- Headphones work

Problems so far:
- Brightness keys don't work FIXED
- Display broken after restarting from suspend FIXED
- Touchscreen calibration off slightly FIXED
- Microphone doesn't appear to work (tested in Audacity)
- Screen won't rotate (*lost cause with current GMA 500 driver?*)
- Youtube playback choppy fullscreen

---

### Post by onebir on 2012-06-27
**Brightness:**
1) FAILED: the rejigged gsd-backlight-helper from [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11968333&postcount=14) **without success**.

What I tried:
1) Following the post exactly, eg
```
sudo cp gsd-backlight-helper /usr/lib/gnome-settings-daemon
```
renamed the file to "gnome-settings-daemon".

2) FAILED: I noticed a folder called "gnome-settings-daemon-3.0"; I thought perhaps gsd-backlight-helper should be there. But after moving it in and rebooting no change.

3) FAILED: Following the [wiki](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo#Brightness_hotkeys) I added "acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor" to the line starting GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX in
*/etc/default/grub*.

Now the brightness keys bring up a little display, but the brightness doesn't change.

4) FAILED: Adding "acer_wmi.blacklist=yes" to the line mentioned in 3. So I deleted it again.

5) Finally... **SUCCESS**: using [Snow Dimon's method](http://snowdimon.blogspot.co.il/2012/04/pspgfx-brightness-settings-fix-ubuntu.html).

```

cd /
sudo leafpad .backlight
```

Paste in the script to handle the backlight keys:
```
#!/bin/sh

while [ "$1" != "exit" ] ; do
 a=$(cat /sys/class/backlight/eeepc/brightness)
 n=$((a*7))

echo $n > /sys/class/backlight/psb-bl/brightness

sleep 0.5

done
```
save, and make the script executable:
```
sudo chmod 755 /.backlight
```
This script needs to be able to write to the *brightness* it mentions. But this is a system file that's created afresh (?) each time we boot. So we need to enable writing to it each time we boot, by modifying rc.local, which runs each time we boot (pretty much?):
sudo leafpad /etc/rc.local
Above the *exit* line paste in this:
```
sudo chmod 666 /sys/class/backlight/psb-bl/brightness
```

Now set the .brightness script to run on startup. (I used Settings->Settings manager->Session and startup-> Application Autostart. Scroll down to see the "Add" button, click and give a name and more importantly the path to the backlight script, ```
/.backlight
```

When I restarted this worked for me. :)

---

### Post by onebir on 2012-06-27
**Suspend**:
Fix documented [here](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo#Fix_suspend) works fine. :)

---

### Post by onebir on 2012-06-27
Touchscreen calibration:

1) **Failed**: instructions using xinput-calibrator [here](http://www.thefanclub.co.za/how-to/how-ubuntu-1204-touchscreen-calibration).

(For reference, the output from the calibrator was:
Option "Calibration"   "1685 63721 2703 64807")

2) **SUCCESS**: following [these steps](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11030399&postcount=360).

But use *xinput set-int-prop 9 "Evdev Axis Calibration" 32 300 7900 400 **8000*** for (near?) perfect calibration.

---

### Post by onebir on 2012-06-28
**Screen rotation**
1) **Failed** *xrandr -o left* produces this error:
```
X Error of failed request: BadMatch (invalid parameter attributes)
Major opcode of failed request: 149 (RANDR)
Minor opcode of failed request: 2(RRSetScreenConfig)
Serial number of failed request: 14
Current serial number in output stream: 14
```
*/etc/acpi/rotatescreen.sh* uses *xrandr* so there's no point fiddling with it until this is fixed.

It seems *xrandr* needs a *--output* + argument. Tried:
```
$xrandr --output default -o left
xrandr: failed to get size of gamma for output default
$xrandr --output default --rotate left
xrandr: output default cannot use rotation "left" reflection "none"
$xrandr --output default --rotate left --reflect (normal|x|y|xy)
xrandr: output default cannot use rotation "left" reflection ("none"|"X axis"|"Y axis"|"X and Y axis")
```

---

