---
title: "9.04 dual monitors backwards now"
date: 2009-06-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by wputler on 2009-06-07
Just upgraded from 8.10 to 9.04. I have resolved most of the problems that caused, but there is one last thing that really bugs me. It has my dual monitors backwards.

I have my laptop on my desk to the left and my large screen to the right.

In 8.10, when I unchecked "Mirror Screens" in the Display Control, the large monitor on the right would be the primary monitor (the one with the menu panels) and the laptop would just show a blank desktop. In the Display Control I had the 14" laptop monitor on the left and the large, 22" monitor on the right.

Now in 9.04, in order for the large monitor to have the menu panels, it has to be on the left and the laptop has to be on the right. Which stinks because now I have to move my mouse to the right to get to the laptop on the left - I have to imagine the pointer circling around me to keep it straight.

If I switch the monitors to represent their actual physical position, then the laptop has the menu panels, which is really inconvenient because I use the large monitor for most of my work and the laptop screen is really just a holding space.

How can I get the monitors correct physically and keep the menu panel on the large monitor? I can't seem to find anywhere to specify the primary screen.

/Wendy

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-06-08
Hi and welcome, what is the model of the graphics card? You may use the command ```
lspci | grep VGA
``` in the terminal to identify.

---

### Post by wputler on 2009-06-08
Thanks for the command. Here's the output.

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)

I was thinking there must be some setting in the display panel that I wasn't seeing - setting the primary monitor seems to be a pretty obvious thing.

/Wendy

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-06-08
> **wputler said:**
> Thanks for the command. Here's the output.

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)

I was thinking there must be some setting in the display panel that I wasn't seeing - setting the primary monitor seems to be a pretty obvious thing.

/Wendy

Ok I am not using a intel graphics but you may look a the link in my signature about intel graphics on Jaunty for some help. Good luck.

---

### Post by wputler on 2009-06-10
I took a look and to tell the truth, it seemed like I might be making things worse in trying to fix this problem. The warnings sounded worse than the problem. ;-)

I don't know if I want to go there yet.

Thanks,
/Wendy

---

### Post by MaikoID on 2009-07-01
Hi I have the same problem.

My main screen is in the right of my extend worspace and I don't know how to change this issue.

bb

---

