---
title: "ATI r128 driver issue, can't get 1024x768 res."
date: 2008-07-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dodle on 2008-07-10
I've had this (or a similar) problem before and resolved it by editing the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.  

Just yesterday the pc started booting up in 800x600 and I've tried everything I can think of, but I can't get it to go back to 1024x768.  In the display preferences it only have four options:  800x600, 640x480, 400x300, and 320x240.

Using the command "sudo displayconfig-gtk" to configure the driver but still no luck.  

I just used xfix from the recovery console, so my xorg.conf file is back to default settings.

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
The fact that it goes back to these settings after doing xfix seems to signify that it's not recognizing my video card at all.

---

### Post by dodle on 2008-07-10
I thought that I should add that if, while in "Screens and Graphics Preferences", I change the default "Plug 'n Play" monitor to "Monitor 1024x768", I can get a 1024x768 resolution, but it doesn't show the whole screen.  It does what I heard referred to as "panning", where I can move the mouse around and the screen moves as well.

---

### Post by dodle on 2008-07-10
*bump*

---

