---
title: "14.04.3 LTS + Radeon 3650 = monitor dies after 20 minutes"
date: 2016-01-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by scrawny212 on 2016-01-23
Installed 14.04.3 LTS on Windows Vista with a Radeon 3650 graphics card. Installation when fine, start window appears and can choose O/S. After 20 minutes the monitor dies and the power light starts blinking. Monitor dies whether working on computer or not.

New to Linux/Ubuntu, but can read and, if you ask my ex-wife, can follow instruction.

Restarting monitor does nothing. (Monitor is a Benq with sleep, proximity and power management turned off)

Computer and Ubuntu still run with monitor off. Slightly disconcerting when downloading updates and monitor dies. Sort of like driving down a highway at night and suddenly your car headlights go off. Well, maybe not quite as bad.

Graphic card controlled by default Ubuntu software. 

Found some other posts referring to possible solutions involving 'grub' at  /etc/default/grub, but couldn't find 'grub' using Terminal program.

Some posts suggest using the Catalyst software - like the one already installed for my Vista O/S. But other posts imply problems using Catalyst. 

All of the problems/solutions I found centered around a blank screen after boot, or blank screen/dead monitor issue other than time related.

The Ubuntu default programs controlling display have no capability for controlling time frame for screen saver, sleep mode, or other abilities so I can't check to see what the settings are and adjust them.

My computer has ample power supply and two extra fans keeping everything cool, so I don't suspect card overheating. 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-01-23
> Installed 14.04.3 LTS on Windows Vista

Do you mean you used Wubi?  If so, Wubi is no longer actively developed and is not recommended for use.  Even though it will still work on Vista and Win 7, it is not likely that anyone will dredge up old experience to help with it when it is not supported.

The fglrx driver (Catalyst) will most certainly not work with your card, as AMD has discontinued Linux driver support for any adapters prior to the HD 5000 series.

---

### Post by scrawny212 on 2016-01-23
I don't remember seeing anything related to Wubi.

I went to the Ubuntu web site, downloaded the 32 bit version of 14.04.3 LTS, burned it to disk, shutdown Vista, inserted disk on restart and loaded Ubuntu to computer, then restarted computer when installation was done.

Vista not running when Ubuntu installed.

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-01-23
"On Vista" was the source of my question.  I asked for clarification.

---

### Post by scrawny212 on 2016-01-23
My mistake.  The standard dual boot screen appears with Ubuntu or Vista as O/S choices.

Problem is the monitor dies after 20 minutes when running Ubuntu. Any suggestions on curing this dead screen issue?

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2016-01-24
It doesn't happen in Vista, correct?

---

### Post by scrawny212 on 2016-01-24
Correct. When booting Vista everything works fine. It is only when booting to Ubuntu 14.04.3 LTS that display stops after 20 minutes. Monitor dies and power light starts flashing. Turning monitor off/on doesn't help.

---

### Post by Christopher_Stayne on 2016-01-24
To me this does sound like a driver issue.  I would suggest checking to see if there are any updated drivers for your card under the disto you are running.  If not that, maybe there is a bug within the power settings somewhere that has to do with when the monitor is to be turned off.

---

### Post by scrawny212 on 2016-01-24
I'm using the Radeon drivers which came with Ubuntu, which according to [this link]("http://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver") my Radeon 3650 card is fully supported by Ubuntu. That's what is confusing to me. Ubuntu says card is fully supported but then the monitor stops after 20 minutes.

The display screens just goes black at 20 minutes if I'm using Firefox, emailing or whatever.

---

### Post by Christopher_Stayne on 2016-01-25
Are there recent drivers for that card on ATI's website?  Maybe download the most recent drivers they have for it plus the catalyst software.  Im wondering if there isnt a setting on the card itself that  is doing this that you will need to access through the Catalyst.  Otherwise it seems like for some reason Ubuntu is determining that there is no user activity and timing the monitor out.

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-01-25
@Christopher_Stayne:  There are NOT more recent drivers on AMD's website that will work with this adapter and current Linux distros.  Please see my post above!

@scrawny212:  It is possible that you don't observe overheating while using Windows because AMD's legacy Windows driver still works with Windows' graphics stack.

Unfortunately, however good the open source Radeon driver has gotten, it still is less efficient in power management than the fglrx driver from AMD.  Wht you might do is a "manual" temjperature check:  run the machine until the monitor quits and carefully touch the heat sink to see how hot it has gotten.  Take care not to burn yourself!  It can get up to 100 degrees C - hot enough to boil water.

I'm assuming here that wiggling the mouse or touching a key does not wake the monitor...

---

### Post by scrawny212 on 2016-01-25
I downloaded GPU-Z and checked the temp while using the Vista O/S. At 0% load on GPU the temperature was 95C. Highest was 98.3C. That's far too hot according to several forums I checked.

Time for a new graphics card. I'll recheck the Ubuntu [RadeonDriver]("http://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver") page for supported cards and find one which will fit my old Acer Aspire M1200.

I'll mark this closed. Thanks folks.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-01-26
The page to which you linked talks about enabling dpm. Did you try this? 

Though it was introduced in kernel 3.10 it has improved a lot since then. 15.10 is worth trying.

---

### Post by syntaxerror74 on 2016-01-26
First thing *ever* I would have done with such issues would be applying **nomodeset** to kernel options and THEN booting the kernel.
The resolution might be a bit low, but if the 'going blank and not waking up' issue is resolved that way, you have at least a resolution to (temporarily) work with. Then you'd boot the kernel again *without* nomodeset (important!!) and maybe even try to go down one step in  resolution (open a terminal and type **arandr **, note that this tool has nearly zero effect when kernel was booted with the 'nomodeset' option, as there will only be one lone resolution available).

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-01-26
With that card, nomodeset is unnecessary as indicated by the fact that the OP was able to boot to a full desktop at startup.  Sudden misbehavior after some time is usually indicative of a thermal fault.  This is suggested all the more by the fact that in Windows the card is running only a few degrees from thermal shutdown.  It would generally run hotter with the open source Linux driver.

If that old card has been running at that temperature for any length of time, it is highly likely that the thermal compound has broken down and there has been heat damage in the gpu.

---

### Post by davidvandoren on 2016-01-29
I had exactly the same problem with an ACER laptop. 
I tried the baking the gpu in the oven method but my oven can't show its temperature, so I over cooked it. 

To the OP
You'll need a new card and the oven trick only lasts for a couple of month. 
Don't cook your card in the oven as I did since a repair shop can refurbish the card and new cards are difficult to get.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-01-29
> **scrawny212 said:**
> I downloaded GPU-Z and checked the temp while using the Vista O/S. At 0% load on GPU the temperature was 95C. Highest was 98.3C. That's far too hot according to several forums I checked.

Time for a new graphics card. I'll recheck the Ubuntu [RadeonDriver]("http://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver") page for supported cards and find one which will fit my old Acer Aspire M1200.

I'll mark this closed. Thanks folks.

this card is actually well supported. 

you should clean it first. make sure to clean the fan well and if the fan is still turning and all it should work ok.

also make sure BIOS is set correctly. i just had this situation where i had major overheating issues. turned out there was a setting in BIOS for card voltage and it was auto. settign it to high made the fan spin faster and now no more issue so far.

---

