---
title: "11.04 laptop network and touchscreen"
date: 2011-06-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jlparsons on 2011-06-30
Hi folks,

Have a samsung NB30 touchscreen netbook running 11.04.  My issue is the touchscreen and wifi work fine out of the box but then disable after suspend/resume.  Any ideas how to solve this?  Have tried the usual solutions on the "linux on my samsung" Voria forum to no avail.

Cheers,

James

---

### Post by jlparsons on 2011-07-27
Update - both solved.

Wireless issue was because ndiswrapper was using the wrong driver, I sourced the correct realtek driver online (windows xp version) and installed this with ndiswrapper.  The ndiswrapper gui you can install from the repo is very useful.

Touchscreen issue solved via the help of a user on the Voria Linux on My Samsung forum, quoted below:



I had this problem too, and fixed it.

I actually had the same  issue (working fine until sleep/wake) with my wireless. I just applied  the solution I found for that to the touchscreen and it worked.

Previously I'd been manually unloading and reloading the wifi module with these two commands after every resume from sleep:

**Code:**
sudo rmmod r8192e_pci; sudo modprobe r8192e_pci


Which  worked, but was a bit cumbersome. This forum post pointed to a website  that told me how to get the computer to do this automatically:

[http://www.voria.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=782&start=15#p5165](http://www.voria.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=782&start=15#p5165)

you  need to create a file called unloadmodules, in the directory  /etc/pm/config.d/ and put a line in it like      SUSPEND_MODULES=”r8192e_pci hid_egalax” with a space separated list of  all the modules you want given a kick on resume (you can use **lsmod** to list the ones active on your system).

The  original post tells you to use vi, which is what I used, but it can be a  bit scary so this line should create/overwrite (so check there's  nothing there first) the file with the single line in it:

**Code:**
sudo echo 'SUSPEND_MODULES="hid_egalax"' > /etc/pm/config.d/unloadmodules


Note  that there's a closing double quote and then a single closing quote  before the > character. A reboot and that should be you.

---

