---
title: "11.04 on Thinkpad w520 (with nvidia) randomly hangs on boot (or not!)"
date: 2011-08-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by GeorgeVM on 2011-08-05
Dear all,

that's my first post on this forum, but I want to thank everybody for all the help I already got just by reading the postings of others...

I just installed (or tried to) xubuntu 11.04 64bit on a Thinkpad w520 with nvidia optimus graphics (1000M). I did not touch the bios settings during the installation. It's only after the installation that I set the bios to discrete graphics and disabled the automatic graphics selection. Might that have caused the system to expect intel graphics during boot? Might it be disturbed when it finds nvidia graphics during the boot process?

aptitude upgrade replaced the 2.6.38-8-generic kernel with 2.6.38-10-generic. I also installed 2.6.38-11-generic from a ppa. As suggested by the update tool I installed the nvidia proprietary driver (270.41.06). Another info: the laptop has an SSD, therefore the corresponding fstab line has the ```
discard
``` option.

I observe a very weird behavior:

- Setting the integraded (Intel) graphics in the Bios will almost always cause the computer to boot without problems with any kernel. (This is not very useful for me, because I'm using a docking station with two external displays connected. AFAIK I won't be able to use this with Intel.)

The following applies to setting the bios to use discrete graphics (nvidia):

- Using acpi=off in the 2.6.38-10-generic kernel line (and removing the quiet splash options) allows a normal boot approximately every third time. The other times I will see a few lines of text displayed ending with ```
Running: /scripts/init-bottom ... done 
``` and then the screen will freeze and nothing will happen, no ctrl-alt-f2 or such will work. IMHO I do not change anything between two boots. It might boot one time, the next time it won't...

- Running the 2.6.38-10-generic kernel in recovery mode I will often (but not always) get a console and startx will give me a GUI. Sometimes, it will simply freeze after the second line of text ```
Loading initial ramdisk ...
``` or at some other (random?) point. Again: Power cycling seems the only possibility to escape.

- Simply booting 2.6.38-10-generic may or may not lead to a GUI. Often it does not and then again everything freezes.

- 2.6.38-11-generic (from the ppa) does not show any info and freezes.

- 2.6.38-11-generic (recovery mode) outputs quite a few line of texts until it freezes with ```
Begin: Running /scripts/init-bottom ... done.
``` (Similar to the above.)

- 2.6.38-8-generic does not show any info and freezes.

- 2.6.38-8-generic (recovery mode) outputs quite a few line of texts until it shortly freezes with ```
Begin: Running /scripts/init-bottom ... done.
``` Then it will output a few more lines and definitely freeze with
```
[81.983697] end_request: I/O error, dev sda, sector 395182136
```More such I/O errors will have occurred before this last one.

- Plugging in USB devices (keyboard, mouse) seems to cause more freezes. (Just a feeling)

I tried to ```
aptitude reinstall
``` the kernel and ```
nvidia-current
```. I couldn't notice any difference.

To summarize: only 2.6.38-10-generic sometimes works for me. acpi=off seems to help. There are some other threads here on the w520 and nvidia, but most people at least seem to have a config that reliably boots. What particularly irritates me here, is that the exact same grub entry will sometimes boot and sometimes not.

Any help would be greatly appreciated. Many thanks,
GeorgeVM

---

### Post by cprofitt on 2011-08-05
check out the bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/776999](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/776999)

there are some work arounds in the bug report.

---

### Post by GeorgeVM on 2011-08-06
OK, thanks for pointing out this bug report. I'm not sure, if I should post the following in the discussion to the bug report, but since I started the thread I think, I'll continue posting here until advised otherwise.

I forgot to mention that I upgraded to the latest bios version (1.26) before even starting the installation. This version does not seem to have an option to disable the wireless, as often suggested. However, I followed the suggestion to disable Intel AMT and memory protection. Not sure, if it helped that much but it did not hurt (to my knowledge).

For the 2.6.38.10-generic kernel I can now confirm that acpi=off always results in a successful boot. However, acpi=ht (or not doing anything to acpi at all) will often cause the boot process to hang. But not always. Once I even got the system to boot with acpi (all 8 cores shown in htop and obviously working), suspend to RAM and successfully resume. The irritating behavior remains: the exact same grub entry will sometimes boot, sometimes not. There seems to be a tendency that a warm start (that is issuing a sudo restart at the command line) will fail. A cold start (that is powering off, than powering on again) will likely be more successful. Is there any rational explication for this?

What I still did not try was to reinstall the 32bit version. For now, this seems to be the only (sure?) road to success. However, I'm still a bit reluctant to go this route, because all the other machines in the lab (no w520 among them!) are using 64bit and using similar systems helps in other ways. 

I have been using Ubuntu for the past five years. However, I'm just an enthusiastic user, occasionally a developer, but by no means an expert system administrator. So, if there is any other information I could provide to clarify the problem or other things I should try, please tell me.

---

### Post by GeorgeVM on 2011-08-06
Just an update: I've decided to take the way of least resistance (for now...) and installed 32bit xubuntu 11.04.

In the process I got some new insights that might be of interest for some people hunting bugs. That's why I'm posting some details here.

In order to prepare for the install I set up the w520 exactly like I would use it later. That means:

- BIOS: Boot display: VGA (not Thinkpad LCD), discrete graphics, automatic switch disabled. Intel AMT: disabled. Memory protection: off.
- Laptop in docking station (Mini dock: series 3). Lid closed.
- Two external Monitors connected to docking station. One to VGA, the other to the DVI port number 1.

I wanted to give 64bit xubuntu a last chance and tried to install it. This time I only got to the screen where I could choose to "Install Xubuntu". Then the screen would stay blank with only a blinking cursor. From this I draw the cautious conclusion that even just installing the 64bit version will only work with Intel graphics.

Anyway, I installed the 32bit version smoothly. This was uneventful. It booted repeatedly without problems (finally!). I performed all the suggested upgrades, especially the one to kernel 2.6.38.10-generic. The PAE kernel gave me access to the 8 GB of RAM, so everything was OK for me. However, resume from suspend (to RAM) was not working out of the box. It seemed to suspend alright (the little moon on the laptop lights up). But when trying to resume something seemed to happen, but the moon stayed on and the whole thing was frozen. Only power cycling helped.
I first followed the suggestions by beenmachine in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1757821") (post #5). These were not intended specifically for suspend problems, but I decided to follow the suggestions anyway. However: no resume. Then I tried a [suspend specific suggestion]("http://jr0cket.blogspot.com/2010/10/ubuntu-1010-hibernate-suspend-bug-fix.html") (but intended for 10.10). Still no resume. Finally I went to the bios and enabled Intel AMT and Memory Protection again. The result: resume works perfectly. As I have accumulated all the suggestions (that is: not tried them individually) I still cannot tell if it is a specific combination of them that makes suspend work. Who would have thought that either Intel AMT or Memory Protection disabled would freeze the machine on resume?

If you have specific questions on my config, please feel free to ask. I do not tag this thread as [SOLVED] because (like so many others already pointed out) the 64bit version does not work, or does not work reliably. There must be some magic combination, though, because, as I said, there were times where I could boot using the nvidia driver, have acpi enabled, and resume from suspend. Simply, these situations could not be reproduced reliably. As a scientist who often works on HPC code it would have been a dream to have this beautiful w520 working with 64bit ubuntu. I'm hoping for this dream to finally come true, hopefully not later than 11.10...

Again, thanks for all the wonderful info found in this forum.

---

