---
title: "8.04 Toshiba Satellite 1800"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Socratez on 2008-04-26
So I just upgraded from 7.10 to 8.04 and all of a sudden my video is not functioning propperly. I know I am using an older machine but it gets prgressively worse with each release as per getting things to work. This time I have only 800x600 resolution available and my screen has a 2" black boarder around it. I am going to post the lspci output of my display adaptor & my xorg.conf file ... Any help would be greatly appreciated ... Thanks in advance

LSPCI:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1 (rev 82) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
	Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Unknown device 0001
	Flags: bus master, 66MHz, medium devsel, latency 8, IRQ 11
	Memory at fc000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=32M]
	Memory at fbc00000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4M]
	Memory at f8000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=32M]
	Memory at f7ff8000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=32K]
	[virtual] Expansion ROM at 30000000 [disabled] [size=64K]
	Capabilities: [80] AGP version 2.0
	Capabilities: [90] Power Management version 2


xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by cheyrl on 2008-04-27
Just a note to say I'm having the exact same problem on a Toshiba Satellite 1805-s254 with the same Trident Video Accelerator Cyberblade XP Ai1.  Any advice sure would be appreciated!

---

### Post by Socratez on 2008-04-27
I have found nothing so far ... I am going to go back to 7.10 I think and then take my xorg.conf file and retry this install ... I might wait a week to see what I can come up with .. I am not completely new to Linux so maybe I can get it running ... Let me know if you get a fix

---

### Post by horkoser on 2008-04-28
Hi,

I have the same problemwith 8.04 (having to back to Linux Mint 4.0) . My machine (rather old) is a Toshiba Satellite A20 with Trident Cyberaladdin chipset (I think...). I post you a link with a solution to this problem. Only to say that it did not work to me :-(. The video server gets broken, having to switch to a terminal mode (CTRL-ALT-FN x) to halt the system properly.
The link is this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=763964&highlight=trident](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=763964&highlight=trident)

Good luck.

Horkoser

---

### Post by heri on 2008-05-06
Hello,
I tried Hardy on my old Toshiba Laptop (Tecra 8200) and I got similar problem.
As a temporary workaround I copied the /etc/X11/xorg.conf from Ubuntu 7.10 (which is working fine) to my usb flash.
When I boot to Hardy live CD, I plugged my usb flash and copied the xorg.conf file to Hardy, then log out.
Upon log in back, Hardy will show the display correctly.

The problem solved, but I don't know if it is safe or not :)

---

### Post by Dharmaboy on 2008-05-17
Hey Guys,
I am fairly new to Linux and Debian.

I have a Satellite 1800 (Canadian Version...not sure)

I have installed Kubuntu.
Everything works fine. Video is only displaying at 800x600 but I have the black 2 inch border around the video as well.

I used Micheal Minn's excellent guide ([http://michaelminn.com/linux/toshiba1800/](http://michaelminn.com/linux/toshiba1800/))
but still no luck. 

I am trying to find out what the Horizontal and Vertical sync rates are for my laptop but my unit looks very close to Minn's so I tried the refresh sync values and it seemed to work for a few reboots but alas it started doing the warping white effect when X tries to run.

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by martin15s on 2008-05-18
my old Toshiba 1400 S153 Satellite had Trident video  problems in 8.04  and the only way around for me was this link...[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=763964&highlight=trident](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=763964&highlight=trident) - if it works for you then please thank the author.....:)

---

### Post by want2bdifferent on 2008-07-18
I had exactly the same problem with my toshiba satellite pro 4600, i had the border with hardy heron, i just went back to 7.04, extremely frustrated.

---

### Post by roger_1960 on 2009-02-11
Hi

Have a look at this thread - solution is on third page!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=806835](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=806835)

---

