---
title: "11.04 After shutting down, I restart to a blank purple screen"
date: 2011-05-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by CrazyJesse on 2011-05-16
I using Ubuntu 11.04 (not Lubuntu, sorry) that is back-graded to Gnome GUI on a Toshiba satellite L505d-s5983. This never happened before, but starting yesterday, when I shutdown and restart I get a blank purple start-up screen(everytime). I then hold the power button to shut down, powering back up and I get to the grub(selection) screen. I choose recovery, select disk check, it reboots, finds errors, and takes me to a bash login prompt(in high res, which does look nice) at the bottom of screen, but it doesn't allow me to enter my password. I must then ctrl-alt-del, then finally I get a good startup. System check says my hard-disk is healthy.

What's happening?

---

### Post by fritz269 on 2011-05-16
I get that also but if I wait long enough I get the log in screen unless the capslock light keeps blinking then the only thing I can do is restart.

---

### Post by CrazyJesse on 2011-05-16
Did you start a thread on the subject? Any helpful replies? Could you leave a link? Thank you!! Will notify if I've gotten any help.

---

### Post by CrazyJesse on 2011-05-21
After the last set of updates, system is down. will not startup, wah. Can't figure out how to fix using live CD kubuntu 10.10. Kubuntu is wacky!!

---

### Post by CrazyJesse on 2011-05-21
Well, the partition seems unfixable. It can't be fixed using an Ubuntu 10.10 live system (by going under, system;admin;disk utility; [drive]; check/repair filesystem) It just tells me that it's "Not Clean" ("what happened to repairing", i wonder? gliched-out). And in this state I can't do a side-by-side install, nor will let me create a new partition at all so I can dump the files I want to keep, somewhere. (will call around to see if I can borrow and ext. hard-drive)

All-in-All I'm at a loss, unless I get help in the next 20mins on how to fix my super-corrupt partition, I SHALL RE-instaLL from scratch-o-munda. uhnnnnn.

---

### Post by CrazyJesse on 2011-05-21
):P bye-bye narwhal : edit no not yet

---

### Post by CrazyJesse on 2011-05-23
[solved (sort-of)]

---

