---
title: "[11.04] Apple BT Keyboard thinks its a numpad"
date: 2011-05-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by gu4rdi4n on 2011-05-07
hi,


i have a very strange Problem:

My Apple Wireless (Bluetooth) Keyboard thinks after the (fresh) installation of Ubuntu Natty (11.04) it is a numpad-only.
That means that it is correctly connected, but no keys works except "7", "8", "9", "U", "I", "O", "J", "K", "L".
(look at your keyboard how they are placed on the KB and you will notice that these keys are an exact 3x3 field in the middle of the KB, just like the numpad.)

When pressing one of these keys, ubuntu reacts as if one of the keys on the numpad was pressed. (J=1, K=2, L=3, U=4, I=5, ...)

Currently i work via a very old PS/2 keyboard, but that cant be THE solution, so it would be really nice if anybody here could help me with this problem, i would be very thankfully.


Thanks,
Gerrit Addiks

---

### Post by go_for_linux on 2011-05-21
same problem appearing here (in 10.10 the bt kb worked). would be grateful for any hints. br

---

### Post by hookdump on 2011-07-04
bump! Any news? I'm thinking of getting an Apple BT KB, but I'd like to know if anyone could get it to work on Ubuntu 11.04!

---

### Post by daanieo on 2011-07-04
It worked fine here, until I booted my machine this morning. As usual I had to type 'killall bluetoothd' and 'bluetoothd' in the Terminal, because for some reason Natty Narwhal doesn't like my BT adapter. 
Then, I connected my Apple wireless keyboard. I started typing but only numbers showed up. The same problem was showing up in 10.10 when I got this keyboard for Christmas, but now it does work when booting 10.10 from a live CD. 
How strange, I don't understand a thing about it! :(

---

### Post by hookdump on 2011-07-04
OH MY GOD. Regardless of this forum thread, I got one of these keyboards today, I JUST GOT IT.
And I had the same probloem, only 789 UIO JKL working, as numpad.

But I didn't worry: I *always* solve any problem I find in a computer.


I opened xev, and tried hitting other keys...... and xev didn't get any keys....
Then I started worrying...

Finally, I had this idea: On my regular keyboard, TURN "NUM LOCK" OFF. And my apple wireless keyboard works PERFECTLY now! lololol.

:)

---

### Post by hookdump on 2011-07-04
BTW: Now I'll always use my Apple Keyboard, so I added:
numlockx off

To the gdm init file.
I think my computer didn't turn NUMLOCK on on startup, but just in case :P


If anyone needs help about this, feel free to ping this thread :)

---

### Post by Wnutt on 2011-11-24
Hi,
thanks that was helpful.

I am running 11.10 Oneiric.

Fred

---

### Post by navidhm on 2011-12-16
**It worked for me:**

src:[SIZE=1]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AppleKeyboard[/SIZE]
 **Numlock on Apple Wireless Keyboard**

 If the  Apple Wirelesss Keyboard stops working after log-in where most keys do  not work and some keys on the right side produce numbers, it is because  numlock is enabled by default. Numlock can be switched off b[COLOR=Red]y pressing  fn-F6 twice.[/COLOR] The keyboard then works normally again. 
To  disable numlock by default, go to System -> Preferences ->  Keyboard -> Layout -> Layout Options -> Miscellaneous  compatibility options -> turn on "Default numeric keypad keys" 
This setting takes effect after logging in and does not affect the graphical login screen or local consoles.

---

