---
title: "SATA DVD drive not detected?"
date: 2009-11-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pjt33 on 2009-11-11
I have installed Kubuntu Karmic from CD, so I'm pretty sure that my DVD drive is installed. However, when I boot from the hard drive it doesn't seem to be detected.

I don't think it's a problem with SATA per se because the hard drive is also SATA.

**/etc/fstab** contains an autogenerated entry to mount **/dev/scd0** on **/media/cdrom0**. However,** /dev/scd0** doesn't exist. In fact
> ls /dev | grep -E "(c|dv)d"finds only **/dev/pktcdvd**, which is a directory containing only the file **control**.

The other plausible option is **/dev/sd?**. **sda** is the hard drive, and fdisk confirms it. **sdb** to **sde** give me "No medium found". There is no **sdf**, which is also odd. > lspci | grep SATA gives > 00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) 4 port SATA IDE Controller
00:1f.5 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) 2 port SATA IDE Controller
03:00.0 IDE interface: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88SE6121 SATA II Controller (rev b2)I think the last line corresponds to my hard drive. So I'd expect the DVD drive to show up in lspci, and also since it shows 6 SATA ports total I'd expect there to be a **/dev/sdf**.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-11-11
What about ```
ls /dev/sr*
```

---

### Post by pjt33 on 2009-11-11
> **SuperSonic4 said:**
> What about ```
ls /dev/sr*
```
No files found.

---

### Post by pjt33 on 2009-11-13
I have worked around this by moving the drive to a different SATA port, and it now comes up as /dev/sr0 with links /dev/cdrom1, /dev/cdrw1, /dev/dvd1, /dev/dvdrw1. If anyone has any suggestions for fixing the underlying problem I would still be grateful.

---

