---
title: "[SOLVED] Intermittent NTFS mount issue"
date: 2008-07-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ryangus on 2008-07-20
Using 8.04, I'm having issues with an NTFS internal HDD. Sometimes it mounts fine, other times after rebooting I get the message:


    Cannot mount volume.

    You are not privileged to mount the volume 'RangaStorage'.

It's been working ok for the last few days, but tonight I tried to use my USB flash disk. The flash disk worked fine when I inserted it.

I unsuccessfully tried copying a file from the NTFS internal HDD to the flash disk, and then suddenly couldn't access the internal drive anymore. I've rebooted with both the flash disk inserted and not inserted, and I can't access the internal drive.

My fstab file is below:

    # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
    #
    # -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
    #
    # <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>

    proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
    # Entry for /dev/sda1 :
    UUID=cb135800-f080-4726-97d1-3f20c6ddce7b / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
    # Entry for /dev/sda5 :
    UUID=1f15db2a-27fd-4625-84df-745fd75ba7b0 none swap sw 0 0
    /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
    /dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
    /dev/sdb1 /media/FileServer ntfs-3g defaults 0 0

Any ideas how to fix this troublesome internal HDD mount issue?

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-07-20
When mounting the drive manually through the terminal, what output or error message do you get(if any)?

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-07-20
Maybe the drive designation is changing depending on whether you have the usb drive plugged in or not.  

Try using the UUID for sdb1 in your fstab entry, like the others.  

Unplug the usb, and reboot. 

Get the UUID and add it to fstab:

sudo blkid

or 

ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid


gksudo gedit /etc/fstab

sudo umount /dev/sdb1

sudo mount /dev/sdb1

---

### Post by ryangus on 2008-07-20
hmmm... maybe the problem is the drive itself.

Check the following message:

[INDENT]ranga@ranga-server:~$ sudo mount /dev/sdb1
ntfs_attr_pread: ntfs_pread failed: Input/output error
Failed to read $UpCase, unexpected length (-1 != 131072).
Failed to mount '/dev/sdb1': Input/output error
NTFS is either inconsistent, or you have hardware faults, or you have a
SoftRAID/FakeRAID hardware. In the first case run chkdsk /f on Windows
then reboot into Windows TWICE. The usage of the /f parameter is very
important! If you have SoftRAID/FakeRAID then first you must activate
it and mount a different device under the /dev/mapper/ directory, (e.g.
/dev/mapper/nvidia_eahaabcc1). Please see the 'dmraid' documentation
for the details.[/INDENT]

I'll pull it out tonight and check it on a Windows box I have here and report back.

---

### Post by ryangus on 2008-07-21
I changed the fstab to use the UUID for the device, instead of /dev/sdb1, to no avail.

Thinking the problem may be the device, I removed it, and tried it on an XP PC. All was fine, so I shut down the XP PC and put the drive back in the Ubuntu PC, and all is good again. I think it somehow became sort of corrupted, but not sure why.

I managed to also plug in the flash drive, and copy files from the offending HDD to it no problems.

Go figure...

---

