---
title: "11.04 not detecting full memory"
date: 2012-07-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by daggfot on 2012-07-04
Hi!

My system running 11.04 is not detecting my full memory. I've got 4GB installed (2x2), but the system only reports about 2.8GB. BIOS reports 4GB. I'm running a kernel with pae. Any ideas?

uname -a
Linux core 2.6.38-15-generic-pae #59-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 27 16:22:25 UTC 2012 i686 i686 i386 GNU/Linux

free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2768       1223       1545          0        104        454
-/+ buffers/cache:        664       2104
Swap:         6234          0       6234

Memory-section from lshw
     *-memory
          description: System Memory
          physical id: 1d
          slot: System board or motherboard
          size: 4GiB
        *-bank:0
             description: DIMM DDR2 Synchronous
             product: None
             vendor: None
             physical id: 0
             serial: None
             slot: A0
             size: 2GiB
             width: 64 bits
        *-bank:1
             description: DIMM DDR2 Synchronous
             product: None
             vendor: None
             physical id: 1
             serial: None
             slot: A1
             size: 2GiB
             width: 64 bits

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2012-07-04
have you got onbard graphics set to 1GB..?

---

### Post by daggfot on 2012-07-04
Thanks for your reply.

Yeah, I've got onboard graphics, but I'm not sure how to check the memory size?

I should add that I'm running a separate graphics card now, so there should be no need to allocate system memory to the integrated graphics.

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2012-07-04
ok, if your on a card gfx then no it shouldn't need to alocate it's self any memory. But I'd check in BIOS anyway and just turn it right down

---

### Post by daggfot on 2012-07-04
UMA buffer was set to auto in BIOS. Tried changing it to 32MB which was the smallest value available. I'm afraid this had no effect. System still reports about 2.8GB.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2012-07-04
I've written a script to analyse all memory settings. On your Ubuntu, open a Terminal, and type:

```
wget http://www.appelboor.com/dump/check-my-hardware.py
sudo python check-my-hardware.py

```

HTH

---

### Post by daggfot on 2012-07-04
Thanks. The code looked harmless so I gave it a shot :)

"BIOS offers 2813 MB as usable" doesn't sound reassuring. However checking BIOS when booting shows 4GB.

The output also says I'm running an 64-bit CPU. I tried a live CD with x86_64 but it also only reported 2.8GB.

I'll try to follow the advice given.

Full output from the script:

check-my-hardware.py - version: SJ 2012-06-03
OK, you're root
ANALYSIS:
Total of physical memory modules found 4096 MB in 2 memory module(s)
BIOS offers 2813 MB as usable
Memory seen by OS 2768 MB
BIOS version 01/17/2007
CPU is PAE enabled
CPU is x86_64 64-bit enabled
OS is 32-bit with PAE

SUMMARY:
Memory difference between DIMM hardware and BIOS offering 1283 MB
Memory difference between BIOS offering and memory seen by OS 45 MB
Memory difference between DIMM hardware and memory seen by OS 1328 MB

ADVICE:
Your BIOS is not offering all of your physical memory. Try to update your BIOS, and/or enable 'memory hole rempapping / hoisting' in your BIOS to get more usable memory

Finally: show more detailed memory info from lshw. This can take up to 30 seconds ...
       description: System Memory
       size: 4GiB
          description: DIMM DDR2 Synchronous
          size: 2GiB
          description: DIMM DDR2 Synchronous
          size: 2GiB

Finished

---

### Post by sanderj on 2012-07-04
Your BIOS is quite old: January 2005. More than 5 years.

Maybe the advice 

> Your BIOS is not offering all of your physical memory. Try to update your BIOS, and/or enable 'memory hole rempapping / hoisting' in your BIOS to get more usable memory

should be rephrased as:

> in your BIOS, find 'memory hole re-mapping / hoisting' and enable it.
If not found, update your BIOS, and test again.
If still not more memory, find 'memory hole remapping / hoisting' in your new BIOS and enable it.

If that all does not work, look up your motherboard's specs: what is the max amount of memory? I would expect that a 64-bit hardware does support at least 4GB RAM, including 'memory hole remapping / hoisting'

HTH

---

### Post by daggfot on 2012-07-04
Well, it's an old HP Compaq dx2200. The spec says max is 2GB.

The release notes for new BIOS says nothing of extending this limit.

---

