---
title: "Graphics Driver Problem"
date: 2008-09-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kamranrulez on 2008-09-02
I donno if i m posting this problem in a right section or not.. but this is a big prblm for me!!.. so if i posted in wrong section then plz lemme knw where to ask for help for this one 

I a complete newbie to linux & when i read abt it i found the ubuntu version the most friendly of it.. so i decided to install it.. but after installation i hve a major prblm
Ma graphics r not displayin properly.. i mean i can change the screen resolution & the screen looks good without any faults.. but the whole screen size has reduced.i hve a dual boot system with windows xp. Windows runs smoothly but ubuntu doesnt as screen size is not coming proper.
i hve **Asus-k8v-mx** mobo.i read abt its graphics drivers for linux & tried to install it. But i think i screwed up somewhere coz dere was no change .So if anyone can plz provide any help for this then i"ll be really grateful coz i really wanna be a linux user but without proper graphics it"ll be hard for me.
So plz reply in an easy step guide on how to install ma drivers properly if ya can
Thanx !!

---

### Post by kamranrulez on 2008-09-02
plz guys... help me out here !!!

---

### Post by in-dust-rial on 2008-09-02
```
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=800925

```from this forum
```
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto
```
onother good place to look at
```
http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Hardy#Installation_of_ATI_and_nVidia_Graphics_drivers
```
```
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia
```

hi, i have got problems to understand your problem!
maybe you should try to put the correct parameters for your monitor into your xorg.conf?

maybe if you explain egain, someone may help you!
(maybe its okay with the forum rules even to open a second topic)
try to find out in the tutorials and howtos above, what can be necessary to post! 

stuff like, what kernel do you use!
what modules are loaded to the kernel!
how is the program configured, that tries to use these modules!

what is the output of the startup log,
the xorg log,
what exactly did you install? is the package version correct for your card? 

or just play around with some stuff:
does the error occur with other monitors, in liveCD ...


PS:
do backups on files you change!
and if you want specific help, try to use real english, that may help people to read your text! and try to find out how to give readers a PICTURE of what is going on.

i cant even figureout whats going wrong, so i can only help you by giving you a lot of guessings!

GOOD LUCK
and have fun

---

### Post by kamranrulez on 2008-09-07
Thnx so much for replyin industrial... i knw i gave none of the info tht could hve helped me .So I"ll restate the problem to ya .
I read a lot of posts but no posts were matching ma prblm.so here goes :

I hve an asus k8v-mx mobo with via s3 unichrome onboard graphics card.
the prblm is i thgink tht ubuntu is not able to detect my monitor as well as ma graphics.
i donno if i m using the vesa driver or via driver rite now coz i got no info from ma xorg.conf
i tried to install the via drivers using sudo apt-get but it didnt work out either
so plz lemme knw whts the prblm with this .I hope i m clear this time .I included a copy of my xorg.conf. Plz reply soon 


Xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
        
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by maniheer on 2008-09-07
Do you have xserver-xorg-video-unichrome installed?

```

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-unichrome

```

---

### Post by in-dust-rial on 2008-09-07
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

```
nooo idea!
try what others say...


but i would guess:

backup your xorg.conf
```
sudo cp /etx/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```
and try this
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
so your xorg.conf will be restored ... if it fails... you just have to delete and restore xorg.conf.

good luck

---

