---
title: "Loss of visual effects after shutdown Ubuntu 10,04"
date: 2010-09-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by isabelgobbo on 2010-09-06
Hello personal.   
 

 I don't know what happened but this week after turn on  Ubuntu 10.04 the cursor appears like a x and I had to reconfigure appearance every time I turn on the  computer and I enter in  Ubuntu.   
 

 I go in the administration and I reinstall  video driver to reactivate visual effects, generally I left in extra personalized therefore I abhor jellylike windows.  My VGA is bad but never gave those problems before (GeForce 7300 LE).   
 

 Now  I am using visual effects in the normal configuration and even so,  every time I turn on my desktop the Ubuntu 10.04 come back without effects and again  it's need to reinstall video driver.   
 

 In the file xorg.conf is like this:   
 

 Section "Screen" Identifier "Default Screen" DefaultDepth 24 EndSection
 

 Section "Modulate" Load "glx" EndSection
 

 Section "Device" Identifier "Default Device" Driver "nvidia" Option "NoLogo" "True" EndSection


 

 I use PC desktop. Monitor  CTR 17' SyncMaster 793v Sansung (old). Resolution 1152 x 864 - 75 Hz  and nvidia driver installed has the number: 195.35.24.  The video drivers available  in my system are numbers: 96, 173 and another  one which is the defaut .
 

 I saved the configurations of the monitor by the nvidia x server settings like this:   
 

 :# Nvidia settings:  X configuration cadges generated by nvidia-settings # nvidia-settings:  version 1,0
 (buildd@palmer) Fri Apr 9 10:35:18 UTC 2010
 

 Section "ServerLayout" Identifier “Layout0" Screen 0" Screen0" 0 0 InputDevice “Keyboard0"" CoreKeyboard"
 InputDevice “Mouse0"" CorePointer" Option "Xinerama" "0" EndSection
 

 Section "you Cadge" EndSection
 

 Section "InputDevice" # generated from default Identifier “Mouse0" Driver" mouse" Option "Protocol" "auto"
 Option "Device" “/dev/psaux" Option “Emulate3Buttons" "in the" Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5" EndSection
 

 Section "InputDevice" # generated from default Identifier “Keyboard0" Driver" kbd" EndSection
 

 Section "Monitor" # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid Identifier “Monitor0" VendorName"
 Unknown" ModelName "Samsung SyncMaster" HorizSync 30.0 - 71,0 VertRefresh 50.0 - 160,0 Option "DPMS" EndSection
 

 Section "Device" Identifier “Device0" Driver" nvidia" VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation" BoardName "GeForce 7300
 LE" EndSection
 

 Section "Screen" Identifier “Screen0" Device" Device0" Monitor “Monitor0" DefaultDepth 24 Option" TwinView"
 "0" Option" TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" “CRT-0" Option" metamodes" “1152x864 +0+0" SubSection" Display" Depth
 24 EndSubSection EndSection
 

 Someone could help me give me answer to my problem?   
 

 I searched in the Google but didn't find a good  answer.
Sorry the bad English but I am from Brazil.

---

### Post by AlexZaim on 2010-09-06
Try the following

You are on tty7(ctrl+alt+f1) , goto tty1 (that is ctrl+alt+f1). and type
```

<your user name>
<your password>
sudo service gdm stop
sudo nvidia-installer --update

```
hit ok and let it update to the latest one. And let it re-configure the x configuration file at the end. 
```

sudo service gdm start

```
Should work.


If Nvidia-installer is not installed in your sistem then go to nvidia's site , download and install the driver manually.

---

### Post by isabelgobbo on 2010-09-06
> **AlexZaim said:**
> Try the following

You are on tty7(ctrl+alt+f1) , goto tty1 (that is ctrl+alt+f1). and type
```

<your user name>
<your password>
sudo service gdm stop
sudo nvidia-installer --update

```
hit ok and let it update to the latest one. And let it re-configure the x configuration file at the end. 
```

sudo service gdm start

```
Should work.


If Nvidia-installer is not installed in your sistem then go to nvidia's site , download and install the driver manually.
How I install the driver manually?

---

