---
title: "15.10 System76 Oryx Pro...Bluetooth disabled..."
date: 2016-02-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jayforshort on 2016-02-13
Hi all.  I'm writing to ask for help.  I am enjoying the heck out of my new System76 Oryx Pro, wonderful computer,  but I brought a problem upon myself.  

My mission was to connect a PS3 controller to my laptop so I could use it to play on Steam.  I followed the tutorial to get the controller working via the USB cable, and it works beautifully.  The problem started when I tried to make the controller work using Bluetooth.  

I followed several different suggestions/tutorials on various forums, most of which involved entering terminal commands.  None of the methods that I followed seemed to work.  After a while, I noticed that the Bluetooth icon on the task bar was missing.  I mean the small icon neat the time/battery/wifi icons in the upper right.

I can open the Bluetooth settings from the System Settings window, the setting window only says "DISABLED".  Moving the button from Off to On does not do anything.  I've searched the forums and have not been able to come up with any solid answer yet. 

At the moment, I'm only trying to get Bluetooth working again.  I'm not even trying to get the PS3 controller working wirelessly.  I can deal with playing via USB for the time being.

 Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Neptune_Computer_S on 2016-02-14
Dear Sir
This is due to lack of built-in Intel Bluetooth Adapter driver.
Please find a proprietary Bluetooth adapter driver for your Bluetooth Adapter.
Best Regards
<snipped company name>

---

