---
title: "[10.10] Suspend Only Works Once"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by gdea73 on 2011-10-18
I've seen this problem posted before, on these forums, and on launchpad, but it's slightly different. Additionally, I have a board that has suspend problems with USB3.0 ports enabled, but this problem persists with USB3.0 & IEEE 1394 / FireWire OFF.

The problem: Suspend does work once after booting the computer. However, after waking up from that suspend, and unlocking the computer, suspend no longer works and the computer wakes up immediately.

I have tried a few fixes, editing files and adding to shut down the usb module, but that hasn't worked (I undid each fix after trying them).

Hardware:
GIGABYTE GA-880GA-UD3H MB
AMD Phenom II X4 955 3.2 GHz "Deneb" CPU
G.SKILL DDR3 1600 4GB (2 x 2GB) RAM
VisionTek ATi Radeon HD 5750 GPU - ATi fglrx drivers compiled and installed manually, following the guide on "wiki.cchtml.com". But I could not suspend *at all* (or at least, I don't remember using STR successfully) using the default ATi drivers.

I'm running Ubuntu Desktop Edition 10.10.

So what do I do now? Any suggestions would be great.

---

### Post by gdea73 on 2011-10-24
BUMP -

before an ACPI error flashed by after the first suspend but it was only there for like 1ms, so it was hard to see other than the fact that it said AHCI..

however I have no disk encryption and since that time I have disabled ahci, and my sata controller uses ide mode.

---

### Post by gdea73 on 2011-10-24
ah yes I've checked, and in my sys log it says that device 4:00.0 returned error -5 which was my ide controller (lspci).

So the disk controller is preventing the PC from entering suspend.

**what now?**

I don't think gigabyte offers drivers for the SATA controller.

---

### Post by gdea73 on 2012-01-22
I still have this problem. I asked on #ubuntu and the people there were very helpful but couldn't solve the problem. Does anyone know what to do in this case?

---

### Post by gdea73 on 2012-03-02
Bump, I still wish this were fixed. In the system log I get something about an ATA link not going down, status -5, FFFFFF, or something similar. Does anyone else have this problem?

---

### Post by gdea73 on 2012-03-13
I continue to have this problem... *bounce*
... and it's quite frustrating. At least it's not a laptop, but this particular desktop's fans are LOUD. It's basically my wind tunnel. And I'd rather not have them run all the time. I also don't want to have to do the boot cycle thing over again every time I want to wake it up.

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2012-03-13
Have you tried one of the newer versions of Ubuntu after 10.10?

---

