---
title: "8.04 clock stops and computer freezes"
date: 2009-05-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Yaks Hairbrush on 2009-05-26
So, here's the deal:

I've decided to backtrack and install Kubuntu 8.04 64-bit on my laptop computer.  My reasons boil down to the facts that 1) I like KDE, and 2) KDE 4 is not an option with my ATI x600 video card.  I did run 8.10 until a few weeks ago, but I'm sick of not playing my games.

Anyway, I'm having a very persistent and irritating problem: every so often, the computer basically freezes without any apparent trigger.  One moment everything is just fine, and the next moment I'll notice that the clock in the lower right corner has stopped.

But the computer isn't quite frozen at this stage.  Instead, when I move the mouse the clock will start ticking again, and stopping the mouse stops the clock.  I can often continue to use the computer in this state for some time, though the clock ceases to be accurate.  Eventually, though, some action I try to take causes the computer to give up the ghost and just freeze.  The only option is a restart.

This is perhaps a kernel level problem since when I Ctrl-Alt-F2 and login to a console, the system time matches with what the KDE clock was showing.  (Funnily enough, one of the times this problem occured the clock looped from 8:49:50 to 8:48:43 and back repeatedly).

This problem occurs in Ubuntu 8.04, Kubuntu 8.04, and Debian lenny (GNOME and KDE).  It does not seem to occur in Kubuntu 8.10 or 9.04.  I also ran Ubuntu 8.04 quite happily from last June until December, so perhaps my hardware is decaying or a post-December update broke things.

So, onto the questions:
1) Does anyone know what might fix this?
2) How can I get more information (like, catch it in the act and put it in a log) so that I can file a good bug report?

Thanks,

Trent

---

