---
title: "12.04 gray windows"
date: 2012-06-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by fattyz on 2012-06-30
Its not going that well.  After being all excited at finding a way around the black screen error on my Acer laptop, I'm finding 12.04 very buggy and seemingly unstable.

I first had to use a workaround to eliminate the "system has encountered a problem" dialogue that has plagued me from the beginning, which tried to send an error report that wouldn't send, that said....

My apps crash all the time meaning, they go grey and become unresponsive for a short to long period of time.  Worst case, (DVD Styler) the app just closes right in the middle of trying to use it.

Since I normally am browsing, the browser (firefox) does this all the time and also update manager almost never opens without graying out and hanging while the window is gray you get the picture.

In addition the whole system slows down after awhile something I never thought I'd say about ubuntu on my laptop.

I think all these are related and over all it just is not the same super fast stable OS I've been used to, not by a long shot.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2012-07-01
*Thread moved to Testimonials & Experiences.*

---

### Post by fattyz on 2012-08-09
I get grey screen randomly all the time. (Update manager, firefox, dvd styler, SUCH an epic FAIL)   AND, since I don't know what to do or where to post this my 12.04 experience is AWFUL.  The grey screen error is part of the whole very SLOW, very bugged out mess and I am getting really really frustrated.  I've been hanging around here a long time.  I do all my updates and things are very marginal.

I hope u get a fix.  Sorry to unload in your thread, my last 'grey screen' thread got moved and i have not been able to find it.

acer aspire 5334

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-08-09
Moved post from other thread ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2013368](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2013368)) here to original. I'm going to move this to a support area because I believe the poster is requesting assistance.

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2012-08-10
Obviously a video card/driver issue. Can you post the output of:
```
lspci
```

Thanks.

---

### Post by fattyz on 2012-08-17
Here is the output thanks.  I am thinking about re-format since the windows partition got trashed somehow, I can boot into it but it keeps freezing and so on.  I have no win disks and have to let the factory restore do it and that'll wipe the drive.

Then I guess I could go back to Ubuntu 10.04.  I was even thinking of running it off a usb but i'm afraid it'll be slow.  The best thing for me about Ubuntu was always the speed.  It's all about the speed.  :  )

mark@mark-laptop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub (rev 09)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)
00:1a.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.3 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 93)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801IBM/IEM (ICH9M/ICH9M-E) 4 port SATA Controller [AHCI mode] (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
04:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR928X Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)
05:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR8132 Fast Ethernet (rev c0)
mark@mark-laptop:~$

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2012-08-17
Give a try to 10.04 would not be a bad idea indeed, please report back, as you have a laptop that may be not enough for 12.04.

As per the output above, since video card is just Intel integrated one, no much tweaks can be done... The only driver available is the open source one.

---

### Post by fattyz on 2012-08-22
Yes I think u r right.  I found an old boot USB with 10.04 on it and I am running off that right now.  More than the laptop not having enough juice I think its a question of incompatibility.

So I guess I'll let the factory restore format the drive and re-install windows so I can have that working then I'll either keep running off the USB or make a partition for 10.04.

Thanks all, Its a drag I can't run that new distro but I think I can live with 10.04.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2012-08-22
> **fattyz said:**
> 

Thanks all, Its a drag I can't run that new distro but I think I can live with 10.04.

If you want updated software and other stuff (regrettably, it would appear, not the new desktop), you could try Lubuntu or Xubuntu 12.04, both of which need about the same as 10.04, probably less.

---

### Post by aberja on 2012-08-26
I have similar problems with 12.04

The windows are freezing frequently and become grey for this time. Mouse, keyboard and other windows are working fine.

I'm using a Thinkpad Edge with 8gb Ram and Intel Core i3 processor.

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2012-08-27
> **aberja said:**
> I have similar problems with 12.04

The windows are freezing frequently and become grey for this time. Mouse, keyboard and other windows are working fine.

I'm using a Thinkpad Edge with 8gb Ram and Intel Core i3 processor.

Can you post the output of:
```
lspci
```

Thanks.

---

### Post by aberja on 2012-08-28
lspci:
```
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family DRAM Controller (rev 09)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)
00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family MEI Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1a.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #2 (rev 04)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 04)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev b4)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 2 (rev b4)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 3 (rev b4)
00:1c.5 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 6 (rev b4)
00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation HM65 Express Chipset Family LPC Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family 6 port SATA AHCI Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family SMBus Controller (rev 04)
02:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8188CE 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter (rev 01)
03:00.0 Unassigned class [ff00]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTS5116 PCI Express Card Reader (rev 01)
03:00.1 SD Host controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTS5116 PCI Express Card Reader (rev 01)
08:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR8151 v2.0 Gigabit Ethernet (rev c0)

```

---

### Post by fattyz on 2012-08-28
Big update.  I'll have to mark this thread solved.  I quit using firefox and my problem is virtually gone.  I do not know what was going on but since I switched everything over to chrome I am fine.  I have no idea how firefox could have croaked the whole system so badly.

I got a boot USB all tweaked out with Ubuntu 10.04 because I was getting ready to reformat and go back to 10.04.  I really still do need to reformat to fix my windows partition on this laptop but now that everything is running OK i'll be hard pressed to do it.

Is there a way to clone my installation of 12.04 so I can format without having to set everything up all over again?  (I've done it quite a few times so I'm getting pretty good at it but it'd b nice to have everything all saved.)

Thanks all.

):P

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2012-08-28
> **fattyz said:**
> Big update.  I'll have to mark this thread solved.  I quit using firefox and my problem is virtually gone.  I do not know what was going on but since I switched everything over to chrome I am fine.  I have no idea how firefox could have croaked the whole system so badly.

I got a boot USB all tweaked out with Ubuntu 10.04 because I was getting ready to reformat and go back to 10.04.  I really still do need to reformat to fix my windows partition on this laptop but now that everything is running OK i'll be hard pressed to do it.

Is there a way to clone my installation of 12.04 so I can format without having to set everything up all over again?  (I've done it quite a few times so I'm getting pretty good at it but it'd b nice to have everything all saved.)

Thanks all.

):P

[http://www.remastersys.com/](http://www.remastersys.com/)

should do what you want to do. :)

---

### Post by fattyz on 2012-08-31
Ok so, problem solved.  I have really not seen this gray window stuff since I shut off firefox.  I just ran update manager which would gray out every time.  I don't know if it's coincidence and something got installed in an update or if it was one of the tabs I had open in firefox (i had lots of tabs open on startup and and always kept them open.) But, now everything seems stable.

Thanx

---

