---
title: "14.04: Mouse Pointer Size"
date: 2014-06-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by websquad on 2014-06-21
How can I increase the size of my mouse pointer in 14.04?  For what it is worth, I'm a Linux/Ubuntu beginner ...

---

### Post by nknwn on 2014-06-22
In the terminal type: dconf-editor
Hit return
Then in the dconf-editor 
spend at least an hour changing org/gnome/desktop/interface/cursor-size to 48 and wonder why the blue blinking blazes it doesn't change the cursor size
Sorry it doesn't work

Some things do work but cursor-size is stuck on 24
I've no idea why :/

Maybe someone will suggest a work around.

---

### Post by websquad on 2014-06-22
Thanks for the rant.  I second the motion.  Am amaized that in good old Windows XP (and Vista and Windows 7 and Windows 8.1 ... well, not as straight forward in 8.1 -- yikes) I could use the Graphics User Interface to find a control panel to let me change cursor size, color, etc., and could easily extend the desktop from one to two, then to three, and finally for four display devices (that's as much as I've ever thought necessary for my workflow, but I have friends who have gone way beyound that).  Ubuntu, at least 14.04, has a steep learning curve.

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2014-06-22
Try  entering "mouse" in dash and look for the settings menu for mouse. should be easily accessed. I have Cinnamon DE and it is in Settings under mouse and trackpad

---

### Post by nknwn on 2014-06-23
cursor-size change works in your Linux, unfortunately it doesn't work in Ubuntu 14.04 LTS

---

### Post by websquad on 2014-06-23
I installed XUBUNTU on an old NetBook, and was able to adjust the cursor size on it, so I naively thought I could do it on 14.04 LTS.  Yikes.

Now, if only I could figure out how to support a total of three monitors on 14.04 LTS.  Which graphics card to buy? What software mods I need to make.  This stuff ain't easy for the beginner who is accustomed to Windows 7.  I started a thread on this subject, but to the best of my knowledge it hasn't received any traction.  I'm a newbe to this forum, and have not quite figured out everything.

---

### Post by nknwn on 2014-06-23
You might find this interesting: [http://www.instructables.com/id/How-to-set-up-multiple-monitors-in-linux/?ALLSTEPS](http://www.instructables.com/id/How-to-set-up-multiple-monitors-in-linux/?ALLSTEPS)

---

### Post by websquad on 2014-06-23
I downloaded & installed the Unity Tweak tool.  Now have a nice big & fat red mouse pointer.

[SIZE=4][COLOR=#b22222][FONT=comic sans ms]***Problem Solved -- thanks for all the input!***[/FONT][/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

