---
title: "8.04, USB not working after suspend"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Medo42 on 2008-04-26
Hi. I'm using a Toshiba Satellite A100 (PSAA9E) and installed the Hardy final release now. Suspend to Ram and Disk finally works, so a big thanks here (in Gutsy it never woke up again), but after waking up my USB devices sometimes don't work anymore. It seems that power is present, (for example, my Palm Zire will charge when connected) but even reconnecting the devices (in this case, keyboard and mouse) does not make them work again. dmesg shows several USB disconnects a short time after wakeup (I only pulled out the devices later, so it's not that) and no new connects even when plugging into a different port.

Any ideas what I could try to get to the root of the problem? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by yorugua on 2008-04-26
I have the same problem,everything else works but the usb after suspend.
I don't know what in formation to post.
Thanks

---

### Post by yorugua on 2008-04-26
I found this bug report that might the same.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/211572](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/211572)

---

### Post by Medo42 on 2008-04-26
It's possible - I have tried unloading/reloading the USB modules after such a failed wakeup in order to make it work again, but unloading the ehci_hcd-module did not work (modprobe -r simply didn't return). I'm doing some more reading into the link you sent me. I won't know for sure when the problem is fixed, though, since it's not reliably reproducable.

---

