---
title: "5.1 Speakers not Working Properly on 11.10"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by subhanu.bhattacharya on 2011-10-19
My Intel original motherboard has a 6 channel (5.1) on-board Audio Subsystem [Realtek ALC883 audio codec on Intel 82801GB I/O Controller Hub (ICH7)]. I recently purchased a Logitech 5.1 which works perfectly on Windows xp. But, it fails to work on ubuntu 11.10 properly. Even after selecting 'Analog 5.1 Surround Output' under Settings > Sound > Hardware, only the F-R and F-L speakers are working. I tried installing GNOME ALSA Mixer, but it doesn't launch after installation.
Any help?

---

### Post by digitalslave on 2011-10-21
I have the same problem. All front speakers work and i get i faint rumble from the sub but nothing from the rear channels. I have upped the channels from 2 to 6 in the config and have made sure nothing is muted in the mixer. No matter what I have tried I cannot get the rear speakers to work.

             description: Audio device
             product: 82801JI (ICH10 Family) HD Audio Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1b
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0
             version: 00
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0
             resources: irq:70 memory:f7ff8000-f7ffbfff

---

### Post by dazer26 on 2011-10-29
Go to your package manager (you might have to install synaptic, I dunno I use Kubuntu) and search pulse. Install paman, pavucontrol and pavumeter. After they are installed go to PulseAudio Volume Control under Multimedia. On the last tab (configuration) select you speaker setup (I use Analog Surround 7.1 output). It should work without having to restart, and now you can adjust the levels of the speakers under the Output Devices tab. The sound settings in Ubuntu (or Gnome/KDE?) are ****, I've had to install that pulse volume control in the last 3 releases to get surround working properly.

---

### Post by digitalslave on 2011-10-29
that does give more control but i still have no sound from the rears and a very slight rumble from the sub. worked perfectly before the upgrade. i may have to wipe this or test with a live usb to see if it's any different.

---

### Post by kwbolte on 2012-01-01
Did you solve this? I'm having the same issue after upgrading to mythbuntu 11.10  (nVidia Corporation MCP51 High Definition Audio).

---

