---
title: "unable to set highest resolution (2560x1440) on Dell U2711 with nVidia driver"
date: 2010-10-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jjtv on 2010-10-26
Greetings.
I've got an Dell U2711 monitor which supports 2560x1440 screen resolution, for my sony VAIO VGN-SZ340P with nVidia GeForce Go 7400, running Ubuntu 10.10. The laptop is set on a dock, and the monitor is connected to the dock via a DVI cable (the laptop itself doesn't have a DVI socket).

The problem is that the highest resolution I can get is 1680x1050. There's no choice above 1680x1050 in nvidia-settings, and I couldn't get the resolution higher by changing xorg.conf.

I've installed the nVidia driver 260.19.06, latest available for GeForce Go 7400. Information in nvidia-settings confirms the successful installation.

I rewrote xorg.conf with the Hsync and Vrefresh from the monitor's documentation ([http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/MONITORS/U2711b/en/ug/about.htm]("http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/MONITORS/U2711b/en/ug/about.htm")), and below is my xorg.conf, with my failed attempts (force the screen resolution) commented:

>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.12  (buildmeister@builder101)  Fri Oct  8 13:53:51 PDT 2010

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 260.19.12  (buildmeister@builder101)  Fri Oct  8 13:54:10 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: unknown, VertRefresh source: unknown
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL U2711"
    HorizSync       31.5 - 88.79 
    VertRefresh     59.6 - 70.1
    ModeLine       "2560x1440@60" 241.500 2560 2608 2640 2720 1440 1443 1448 1481 +hsync -vsync
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce Go 7400"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
#    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: 2560x1440 +0+0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
#    	Modes "2560x1440@60" 241.500 2560 2608 2640 2720 1440 1443 1448 1481 
    EndSubSection
EndSection
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

When the two commented lines in the Screen section are uncommented, the computer dies, and the moniter gives a message "The current input timing is not supported by the monitor display". I don't understand the numbers following ...@60" in the mode line, so I don't know if it's the problem with these numbers. I also attach my Xorg.0.log, which I don't know how to read.

This has bothered me for a whole day, I'm very grateful for your help!

---

### Post by reini on 2010-11-11
i have the same problem, dell xps l501x and dell u2711 over HDMI.

can anyone help me? over the nvidia display settings i cant set the resolution to 2560x1440 :( only up to 1920x1080....

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2010-11-11
If you use HDMI you are limited to 1080p ([monitor's manual]( http://supportapj.dell.com/support/edocs/MONITORS/U2711b/en/ug/operate.htm#Setting%20the%20Optimal%20Resolution)). To run the full resolution you either need to use the DVI output with a dual link cable or the DisplayPort.

---

### Post by jjtv on 2010-11-12
Same thing happened to Windows XP. This seems to be due to the capability of the graphic adapter.

---

### Post by Mr Tunes on 2011-03-23
Check video card for Dual-link support, and also 
make sure your DVI cable has all the pins in the center portion of the connector. 

Some cables don't, and won't go higher than 1920x1200.

If your computer has Display Port, you can use that instead.

---

### Post by graabein on 2012-07-16
Awake! 

I just got my new U2711 monitor on an Intel Sandy Bridge desktop (integrated) card. I'm using the dual link DVI cable but the highest mode I can set from GNOME 3 system settings display is 1680x1050 pixels.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by jjtv on 2012-07-21
If it's the case under all operating systems, it's the problem with the hardware. My suggestion is getting back to VGA; at least it can give you 1920x1080.

> **graabein said:**
> Awake! 

I just got my new U2711 monitor on an Intel Sandy Bridge desktop (integrated) card. I'm using the dual link DVI cable but the highest mode I can set from GNOME 3 system settings display is 1680x1050 pixels.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-07-21
Hi, this is an old thread so it has been closed please start a new thread of your own with a descriptive title. 
Thanks

---

