---
title: "Can't boot from SSD Cache"
date: 2012-05-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Magic Walrus on 2012-05-26
I have a Samsung Series 5 Ultrabook with a 16GB SSD Cache in it. I installed Ubuntu on it, but my BIOS doesn't recognize the Cache as a bootable device. I know it's not an Ubuntu specific issue, but maybe someone has encountered the same problem. Would be grateful for any advice. (:

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2012-05-26
The cache isn't a separate disk.  It's used by the system to monitor the most recently accessed files on your hard drive and store them in the SSD, to speed up performance. This is done automatically by the system.

---

### Post by Magic Walrus on 2012-05-26
I read a review on Amazon which said that installing Linux on the Cache is easily possible, so I thought I give it a try. But, I think you missunderstood something. It's **not** a cache included in the SSD, but a separate component. 

> Look below the surface, though, and you'll soon notice the Samsung Series 5 Ultra 530U3B has a few tricks up its sleeve. Most notable is the option of including a 500GB HDD **alongside** a fast-booting 16GB SSD, giving you both space and speed.


E: It's called "SanDisk iSSD P4 16GB"

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-26
Click on the boot link in my sig, download it and extract it to the desktop, a live cd/usb is fine to use here.

Run the command and open a reply and click the # in the reply panel and paste all the text from the results.txt generated by the command run between the code tags.

```
sudo bash ~/Desktop/bootinfoscript
```

---

### Post by tristan@Ubuntu on 2012-06-15
wilee-nilee: Where is your link?

I am having the same problem, can't boot on the SSD. Should I put the bootloader on the HDD?

Thanks...

---

### Post by tristan@Ubuntu on 2012-06-16
Finally, by putting the bootloader on the HDD but / on the SSD, I was able to boot and run ubuntu.

It boots in about 8 seconds and suspends fine, but I am not too happy with the battery life, about 2hours. After following powertop recommendations I am around 18W... What do you think?

I read somewhere, that putting / on this type of SDD (iSSD) was not a good idea, and that it would be better to use the SSD for the swap (16G of swap???), mine is actually on the HDD.

[http://schibum.blogspot.fr/2011/11/ubuntu-oneiric-on-samsung-series-7.html](http://schibum.blogspot.fr/2011/11/ubuntu-oneiric-on-samsung-series-7.html)


Any idea very much welcome...

---

### Post by JanuaryJones on 2012-06-26
Hi!

I also had the same problem. I tried to install Ubuntu 12.04 with root (/) on the ssd and home and swap on the hdd, but it would not boot after the installation. Now I am trying to install again, but this time with all of it on the hdd - do you think that is a good idea? Should I just leave the ssd empty?

---

### Post by JanuaryJones on 2012-06-28
I finally made Ubuntu work with installing the bootloader and /home on the hdd and / on the ssd. It's quite fast, but I can't wake the computer up from suspend... does anyone know why?

Thanks!

---

### Post by RambJoe on 2012-08-29
Have you read this?

[https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=140000](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=140000)

Is everything else good on Linux btw? I'm getting this laptop in a few weeks. :D

---

### Post by iceman on 2012-08-30
I have a Sony Vaio T1311 and i easily installed Ubuntu on my SSD cache (32GB).
I installed everything there and in Windows7 i installed EasyBCD that is able to make me choose on boot if boot windows or linux. That was really easy to install and it have it's magician to find grub2 bootloader(MBR) on SSD cache

---

