---
title: "8.10 + ati: vga-out"
date: 2009-01-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by minimammut on 2009-01-09
Hi everyone,
I got a wuxga screen for christmas and would like to use it with my ubuntu 8.10 notebook. The graphics card is ati mobility radeon 9600.
I tried the normal way through screen resolution settings but it didn't work (didn't figure out right resolution, no picture even on other resolutions).
What I experience is that there is a picture for a really short time (a second or so) and than it says no signal again.
I think the monitor is all right because it works without problems with the vista notebook of my mum (also using vga).
I tried to install fglrx but was always finding me in low graphics mode.
The monitor is the hyundai w241d.
If you need any additional information please ask.
I hope anyone can help,
Oliver

---

### Post by foodude on 2009-02-02
Hi minimammut,

I have the *exact* same problem (same Monitor, same Mobility Radeon, no fglrx yet).

Did you manage to resolve the issue and get it working? What's your status?

---

### Post by minimammut on 2009-02-02
my current status is that I bought a macbook because I wasn't able to figure it out.
I'm running os x and it works, but on wakeup there is noise on the screen, which can be resolved by turning the monitor off and on again.
This might be the macbook's driver's fault but it's possible that the display behaves a bit odd.
Sorry for not being too helpful,
yours minimammut

---

### Post by foodude on 2009-02-02
I see... so do you think it was an ATI Mobility Radeon issue or an Ubuntu issue with the W241d? I'll buy a new laptop soon, but I'd return the W241d if there's no way to use it with Ubuntu. (no OS X for me, sorry)

---

### Post by minimammut on 2009-02-02
I think it is just a driver issue, not a general one of ubuntu + w241d. Of course you can not be sure that it works with the new notebook but any other monitor could fail, too...

---

