---
title: "15.04 No Bluetooth Serial Port"
date: 2015-04-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by DonA on 2015-04-24
I just upgraded from 14.10 to 15.04 (not a clean install).
In my ham radio shack, I use a RigBlaster Blue which provides a bluetooth-connected soundcard (headset protocol) and a serial port.
In 14.10, when the headset connection occurred, the bluetooth serial port (/dev/rfcomm0) would start up.  I had edited /etc/bluetooth/rfcomm.conf accordingly.
Now in 15.04, the headset still connects and the audio in/out is good, but there's no /dev/rfcomm0.
Any thoughts to how I can get the bluetooth serial port back?

Thanks:   ..DonA

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-04-25
What bluetooth chipset do you have? ```
lsusb; dmesg | grep -i firmware
```

---

### Post by DonA on 2015-04-25
Thanks Jeremy.  Here 'tis...

don@don-ThinkPad-T450:~$ lsusb; dmesg | grep -i firmware
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 8087:8001 Intel Corp. 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0003 Linux Foundation 3.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 005: ID 5986:0366 Acer, Inc 
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 8087:0a2a Intel Corp. 
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 138a:0017 Validity Sensors, Inc. 
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 04f3:040c Elan Microelectronics Corp. 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
[    0.141743] [Firmware Bug]: ACPI: BIOS _OSI(Linux) query ignored
[    5.607048] psmouse serio2: trackpoint: IBM TrackPoint firmware: 0x0e, buttons: 3/3
[    8.151254] Bluetooth: hci0: Intel Bluetooth firmware file: intel/ibt-hw-37.8.10-fw-1.10.2.27.d.bseq
[    8.188952] iwlwifi 0000:03:00.0: loaded firmware version 25.15.12.0 op_mode iwlmvm
[    8.310405] Bluetooth: hci0: Intel Bluetooth firmware patch completed and activated
don@don-ThinkPad-T450:~$

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-04-25
Is package bluez-utils installed as some of my search led to it being needed for serial port?  What software are you using with it

---

### Post by DonA on 2015-04-25
I'm running the "off the shelf" bluez 4.101 package. bluez-utils wasn't loaded so I installed it and restarted bluetooth; no change. I haven't tried blueman yet, as I didn't need it in 14.10.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-04-25
You could send an email to West Mountain Radio and see if they can help, it should be easier for them to load Ubuntu on a laptop than it is for me to get a rigblaster

---

### Post by DonA on 2015-04-25
Update: I installed blueman, which does bring up /dev/rfcomm0. However I noticed that the device is now group: root. I changed this to group: dialout, to which my user_id is a member. But alas, the port doesn't seem to talk.

---

### Post by DonA on 2015-04-25
Good thought regarding contacting West Mountain Radio.  Actually I have been corresponding with Sholto, one of their tech folks, for a while. He can't get 14.10 to work at all. I'm waiting to hear if he has better luck with 15.04. 

For me 14.10 had awful, broken audio from the headset connection, but the serial port worked. With 15.04 the audio is better, but the serial port doesn't work.

Bluetooth on Ubuntu these days seems to be "like a box of chocolates: you never know what you'll get."

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-04-25
> **DonA said:**
> Good thought regarding contacting West Mountain Radio.  Actually I have been corresponding with Sholto, one of their tech folks, for a while. He can't get 14.10 to work at all. I'm waiting to hear if he has better luck with 15.04. 

For me 14.10 had awful, broken audio from the headset connection, but the serial port worked. With 15.04 the audio is better, but the serial port doesn't work.

Bluetooth on Ubuntu these days seems to be "like a box of chocolates: you never know what you'll get."

Broken up audio from the bluetooth link?  That might be fixed with ```
echo "options iwlwifi bt_coex_active=0" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```

You must use this for more than the modern digi modes if you use headphones

---

### Post by DonA on 2015-04-25
No, I only use the Rigblaster Blue for "soundcard digital modes". My description was probably confusing. I believe the Ubuntu laptop connects via bluetooth to the soundcard in the Rigblaster Blue by means of the "headset" protocol (HSP).

I wish I had tried the above potential fix for the poor audio in 14.10 before upgrading to 15.04; it was my only reason for upgrading. (I did make a backup immediately before the upgrade. Maybe I should revert...)

---

### Post by DonA on 2015-04-28
Getting warmer.
In 15.04 the Bluetooth Serial Port, /dev/rfcomm0 is connected (or bound?). But my programs can't communicate with it. On a whim I started the program under sudo; it works! So it appears to be a familiar dialout group permission issue. I notice when /dev/rfcomm0 came online it was under owner=root and group=root. I changed it to group=dialout, to which my normal userid is a member, but no change. What am I missing?

---

### Post by DonA on 2015-04-28
OOPs, never mind. Whatever I did to make /dev/rfcomm0 work with a program opened under sudo has disappeared following a reboot. Now it's back to not working at all.  Sigh.

---

### Post by DonA on 2015-05-06
I'm going to mark this thread as [Solved] because I have a reasonable workaround. I suspect the problem I experienced was due to performing a simple 14.10 -> 15.04 upgrade rather than a fresh install.
Connecting to the RigBlaster soundcard via the headset protocol does not start the Bluetooth Serial Port as before. I work around this by:
-> sudo rfcomm bind /dev/rfcomm0 xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx 1   (where the xx's denote the RigBlaster address)

But at this point I could only access /dev/rfcomm0 as root. My normal user_id was a member of group: dialout in the 14.10 installation, but these seem to have gotten mucked up in the upgrade.  I downloaded the gnome-system-tools package to run "Users and Groups" from the dash. In "Users and Groups" I deleted the dialout group, then re-added it, and made my user_id a member. Now I (my ham radio programs: fldigi, wsjtx, cqrlog) can access /dev/rfcomm0 when invoked under my standard user_id.

---

