---
title: "8.04 -&gt; 8.10, now mouse doesn't work"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kllrnohj on 2008-11-02
I just upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10, and my the touchpad on my laptop no longer works. The laptop is a Lenovo Z61p. There weren't any issues with the mouse in 8.04.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by wgrant on 2008-11-02
Please attach /var/log/Xorg.0.log, /etc/X11/xorg.conf, the output of 'xinput list', and use more descriptive thread names in future (otherwise I'll miss things, as I don't particularly care about mice in general).

---

### Post by leonelson on 2008-11-02
wow the person just ask for a little help.
And you come back with complete sarcasm,
if you do not like your position please quit>>

---

### Post by kllrnohj on 2008-11-02
Nevermind, I got it to work by uncommenting the mouse section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf (which the update-manager commented out - claiming HAL would handle it, which apparently it didn't)

> **wgrant said:**
> use more descriptive thread names in future (otherwise I'll miss things, as I don't particularly care about mice in general).

How could the thread title be more descriptive? It contains the exact problem and the scenario which caused it :confused:

---

### Post by wgrant on 2008-11-02
> **kllrnohj said:**
> Nevermind, I got it to work by uncommenting the mouse section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf (which the update-manager commented out - claiming HAL would handle it, which apparently it didn't)


Comment that back out, and let's work out what went wrong. You shouldn't have InputDevice sections in xorg.conf any more - they're likely to break things.

> How could the thread title be more descriptive? It contains the exact problem and the scenario which caused it :confused:

Your problem was with a touchpad, not a mouse in general. The types of problems that can be encountered by each type of device are completely different.

---

### Post by kllrnohj on 2008-11-02
> **wgrant said:**
> Comment that back out, and let's work out what went wrong. You shouldn't have InputDevice sections in xorg.conf any more - they're likely to break things.

Not sure what went wrong, but upon commenting the sections back out the touchpad continues to work. No idea why it wasn't working early (I did reboot several times and restarted X server before uncommenting the sections). I have no clue what changed, but its working fine now (I did reboot after commenting out the sections).

---

