---
title: "S.M.A.R.T. Data Errors"
date: 2013-05-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by partloer on 2013-05-21
I took a look at my sister's laptop hard drive with S.M.A.R.T. from the disk utility from Ubuntu Live and got a bunch of errors.  I am wondering if I need to replace this ASAP or if this can work for awhile until she can purchase a new laptop.  
[B]
[TABLE="class: grid, width: 624"]
[TR]
[TD][CENTER][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]**ID**[/FONT][/COLOR][/CENTER]
[/TD]
[TD][CENTER][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]**Attribute**[/FONT][/COLOR][/CENTER]
[/TD]
[TD][CENTER][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]**Assessment**[/FONT][/COLOR][/CENTER]
[/TD]
[TD][CENTER][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]**Value**[/FONT][/COLOR][/CENTER]
[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]4[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Start/Stop Count[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Failing[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Normalized: 1, Worst, 1, Threshold: 20, Value: 110675[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]190[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Airflow Temperature[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Failed in the past[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Normalized: 60, Worst: 39, Threshold: 45, Value: 40C[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]197[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Current Pending Sector Count[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Warning[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[TD][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]Normalized: 100, Worst: 100, Threshold: 0, Value: 2 sectors[/FONT][/COLOR][/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]


Thanks in advance let me know what you think.

[/B]

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-05-21
How old is the drive?  Your start/stop count is unusually high.  If this is a Western Digital drive, then there is a utility to reduce the cycle count.  Two sectors are potentially failing.  I would keep an eye on that.  If they grow to over 100, then that could be a problem.  Back up important data.  Make it a habit to check the SMART parameters once a week and look for trends.  The temperature of the drive will fluctuate, so that is usually not a failure problem.  If the temperature is over 50C consistently, then that may indicate failing electronics or a bearing issue.

---

