---
title: "12.04 LTS hdmi not working"
date: 2013-08-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Chromezzzz on 2013-08-03
Hello!
Let me first explain that I'm not exactly using Ubuntu, I'm using Chrubuntu (an Ubuntu version for those of us who are stuck with a Chromebook). When I still used Chrome OS, the hdmi worked fine, I could connect to the t.v just fine. Ever since I installed Ubuntu (Chrubuntu)  12.04 lts I haven't been able to get it to work. I connect the cable, but no image, sound, or any type of sign that the connectiong might have been recongnized. Just in case you wonder, I've only used 12.04 lts, no version before or after.

If anyone knows about this issue and how to solve this, or can help me figure it out, I would appreaciate it!

Thank you in advance

P.S I don't know if I posted this in the wrong section, and if there's any spec that you want to know about my laptop, just ask :)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-08-03
Alsa or Pulse Audio?
What does **aplay -l** show?
Do you have the proprietary video drivers loaded? For HDMI, my systems need the proprietary video drivers.

Is the system completely patched?   update and dist-upgrade?

---

### Post by Chromezzzz on 2013-08-04
> **TheFu said:**
> Alsa or Pulse Audio?
What does **aplay -l** show?
Do you have the proprietary video drivers loaded? For HDMI, my systems need the proprietary video drivers.

Is the system completely patched?   update and dist-upgrade?

I'm sorry, but I don't understand what you are asking, if you could somehow lower it down to a more newbie level. And my system is up to date, I don't know if it's a compatibility issue, I mean, it did work fine before I installed ubuntu months ago

---

