---
title: "20.04 no scanning"
date: 2020-07-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by leo1232 on 2020-07-07
Hello,
I have an HP M277 multi-function connected via network. I can print. I cannot scan. HPLIP 3.20.3 seems to be installed. hp-info, hp-toolbox, hp-setup, hp-scan, all say: error: Unable to locate models.dat file. And: error: No device found that support this feature.
XSane find two scanners one via IPv4 an one via IPv6. Choosing either of them gives: Error opening device: opening device 'escl:[http://*.*.*.*:8080':]("http://200.0.0.162:8080':") Out of memory.

Can anyone point me in the correct direction how to solve this?

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2020-07-07
Thread moved to **Hardware** for a better fit

---

### Post by zebra2 on 2020-07-07
I suggest you download the Linux drivers for that printer.  Install the drivers and then install the printer with the legacy system-config-printer application.  20.04 and 20.10 are having problems setting up some printers with the new kernel drivers and installer. Also are you networking that printer with lan or wifi, may make a difference in the setup. I don't have HP but I am printing and scanning on both 20.04 and 20.10., so it can be done. You just need to get the correct drivers running (if available).

---

### Post by rbmorse on 2020-07-07
You might try removing/purging hplip and hplip-data and reinstalling.  That has worked for me in the past when faced with similar problems.  

In any case, the scanner on the M277 was problematic for me on Fedora 31, and I only got it working vua the third-party payware package Vuescan.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2020-07-07
If it works via USB, i have a project in the signature that will share it across your network (see signature for link)

---

### Post by leo1232 on 2020-07-08
Hi,
Thanks for your suggestions. Especially for the server solution. However, after a lot of reading I found that there is a bug in HPLIP. The version that you can download from HP (3.20.6) does not work under 20.04. Also the snap version (3.20.03) does not function. Only the version from the Ubuntu repository (3.20.3+dfsg0-2) can be made to function with a little help.
 See [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups/+bug/1879206](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups/+bug/1879206)

Waiting for an update from HP.....

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2020-07-08
IF that is the issue you could run a older version of ubuntu, debian, or raspberry pi OS on a box attached to the scanner and share it, if it shows up in [FONT=courier new]scanimage -L[/FONT] it should work

---

