---
title: "12.04 LTS NVidia optimus laptop screen black after login"
date: 2013-08-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by sbreble on 2013-08-24
Hi,

Short description:
1. ACER and NVIDIA Optimus 
2. Driver 319 + Bumblebee
3. Laptop display is fine at login screen
4. After login it goes off (black) but system still runs.
5. Turn off laptop.
6. Connect HDMI TV
7. Boot system
8. Both displays shows login screen.
9. After login laptop display turns off
10. Press Fn+F5 recovers turns on laptop screen (I could not turn it on using xrandr of nvidia-settings)
11. I can now unplug HDMI.
12. After reboot same issue happens even if I save xorg.conf.

 Long description:

I have a Acer with NVidia 730M Optimus and after installing 12.04 LTS the laptop screen goes black (off) after login. The system boots normally and I can  see the login screen but after it turns black (off).

I tried to blind CTRL+ALT+T and xrandr --auto but it does not work.

I have tried multiple configurations of drivers and always get the same behavior.
Currently I have Nvidia 319 + Bumblebee installed but it also did not work with 319 without bumblebee or 304.

The only way to make the laptop screen work is to boot with a HDMI TV plugged and then press Fn+F5 to toggle the screen modes on the Acer. At this point the laptop screen will turn on and I can remove the HDMI. 

Once the laptop screen is on I tried to do 
 
optirun nvidia-settings -c :8 

and saved the X config file but the laptop screen is still black after login.

I don't know what else to try. I found only one post with similar problem Fn+F5 to recover laptop but it did not have any resolution.

Thanks
Sbre

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2013-08-31
Have you updated to the Raring kernel for 12.04, in that case due to Optimus support with nvidia prime, bumblebee doesn't work.

---

