---
title: "11.10 - Resizing partitions (not 100% sure how to go about it)"
date: 2012-04-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by abtekk on 2012-04-03
I'm trying to fix my sisters laptop which has 10.04 installed. To keep her documents safe I went about doing this:

1. Download ubuntu 11.10 and install along-side 10.04
2. Transfer old files from 10.04 part. to 11.10 part.
3. Shrink the old 10.04 partition as much as possible 

and now I want to increase the 11.10 part. into the free space from the now shrunk 10.04. To do this I booted into the live-cd to attempt to increase the size. However I'm now stuck on the part where I want to make the 11.10 install partition larger, due to the partitions being in different "areas" on the hard drive. How do I go about moving it? Here's a screenshot of GParted:

[IMG]http://img651.imageshack.us/img651/360/screenshotat20120403101.png[/IMG]
/dev/sda1 is the OLD install
/dev/sda6 is the new 11.10 install.
I need to increase the /dev/sda6 install into the "Unallocated Space" showing in the scr.shot.




I'm happy to go about this using ANY method, providing I can keep both existing installs *SAFE* until I finish copying the data.

---

### Post by prshah on 2012-04-03
> **abtekk said:**
> 
[IMG]http://img651.imageshack.us/img651/360/screenshotat20120403101.png[/IMG]
/dev/sda1 is the OLD install
/dev/sda6 is the new 11.10 install.
I need to increase the /dev/sda6 install into the "Unallocated Space" showing in the scr.shot.

providing I can keep both existing installs *SAFE* until I finish copying the data.

Hi,

You are on the right track, using gparted. 

To move the unallocated space to /dev/sda6, you will need to first extend the "extended" partition (/dev/sda2). To do this, you NEED to unmount all partitions within /dev/sda2 (including your swap partition, which is activated automatically by the live session). Right click your swap partition (/dev/sda5) and select swapoff. If any other partitions are mounted (indicated by the "key" icon), right click and choose unmount. When all partitions within /dev/sda2 are unmounted, the "key" icon for /dev/sda2 will disappear as well.

At this point you can move and resize /dev/sda2 as any other partition.

Resize the /dev/sda2 to include the unallocated space, then resize/move the /dev/sda6 partition to occupy the unallocated space.

Note that no actions will be performed until you click "Apply".

Resizing/moving of data is an inherently risky procedure, so you MUST have a backup of data. This risk CANNOT be avoided, no matter what procedure or software you use. A BACKUP IS AN ABSOLUTE MUST. (That said, I have never had a failed resize, and never bother with backups- however, your mileage may vary).

Also note that since the swap partition is disabled, the resize operation will take a lot longer. It is VERY VERY IMPORTANT to realise that you cannot interrupt a resize operation. So please plan accordingly. If all goes well, it can usually be finished within 30-45 mins, but don't be surprised if it chooses to go on for much longer (sometimes overnight).

Since you are extending partitions to the "left", gparted will move the data, and  that will take time. Extending partitions to the "right" is performed much faster, since minimal data movement has to be done.

Post back if you have any questions or doubts. This is a delicate operation, better to clear up any doubts before attempting it.

Cheers,

---

### Post by Artif on 2012-04-03
> **abtekk said:**
> 
3. Shrink the old 10.04 partition as much as possible 
I'm happy to go about this using ANY method, providing I can keep both existing installs *SAFE* until I finish copying the data.

Keep in mind, operating system needs some free space for temporary files.

Compare listing of
```
ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid
```before and after resizing. If UUID codes are different before and after, then you'll need to fix your "/etc/fstab" file. May be on both installations. I do not remember exactly which kind of operation will change UUID. Some of them do it, some - not.

Keep in mind where your bootloader Grub will look for it's files. If while installation of 11.10 everything was done "by default", now the files are on /dev/sda6. To change this you'll need to do a separate action.

Resizing of partitions is delicate operation on any system. Without data loss you can't stop it until it is finished. Always backup your data on a separate data storage when you are trying to resize or anything else. Or, at least, backup your data on a partition which will not be touched while the operations.

---

