---
title: "Amd a-10 3.13 kernal not working"
date: 2014-09-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by olliemonster on 2014-09-09
For the last few weeks i have been trying to install Ubuntu 14.04 on my desktop with a quad-core amd a10 5700 processor and 8 gigs of ddr3 ram I can successfully install saucy, raring and precise but installing trusty fails.  I have tried installing raring and upgrading to trusty however when i boot the new kernel it restarts disabling my keyboard.   I got 14.04 to work once but after i wiped it i couldn't reinstall Please help i am not new to Linux and i want to use the new release and not be stuck with precise for at least 6 months.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-09-09
Have you used the same installation disk or usb each time or have you tried creating a new one ?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-09-10
I have had a similar problem with the 3.13 ubuntu kernels, but in my case it is an old celeron laptop with AMD graphic card. Other distros using the same kernel number series will boot and run fine but all of the *ubuntu family act similarly so my attempt to install Lubuntu trusty was a big problem.
I eventually managed to get trusty by upgrading a clean install of saucy to trusty, then removing the 3.13 kernel, otherwise I was back to the same non booting system.
I have no idea what stops just the ubuntu 3.13 kernels from booting, but it is annoying, to say the least. I tried every boot option, ie, nomodeset, etc etc, but nothing helped.

---

### Post by olliemonster on 2014-09-16
To Frogs hair 
I have tried the Usb multiple times, checked the md5 sum as well, and tried booting it on a intel core i3 laptop the first made no difference the sum was always correct and it booted fine on the core i3

---

### Post by olliemonster on 2014-09-20
Im going to mark this thread solved as 14.10 works so ill use that if i am using ubuntu.

---

