---
title: "Tablet Graphire serial mouse problem"
date: 2009-03-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jrrpnani on 2009-03-29
I have configured the tablet Wacom with documentation of the web Ubuntu Dcoumentation [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom/LatestDriver#Using%20the%20Pre-built%20binaries]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom/LatestDriver#Using%20the%20Pre-built%20binaries") , and is working. 
But I have two problems. 
 
The buttons on the mouse aren't well configured. The left mouse button it's configured properly. But the right button works like the double click, and the mouse wheel, works like right button and like mouse wheel. 
 
How can I change the button's configuration? I have tried making changes in the Xorg.cfg file, but I have not obtained any result.

I'm using Ubuntu 8.04

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-29
Hi jrrpnani,

Why not use the pre-packaged linuxwacom 0.8.1-6 deb.s here?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom")

It sounds like you have the Wacom "hockey puck" mouse.  We would need to see your xorg.conf to help.  On the link above Loic2's Wacom wiki links to his Wacom thread.  There may be instructions in there already.

Have you checked to see if Wacom ExpressKeys works for your tablet?  You didn't mention what kind of Graphire you have.

[http://freshmeat.net/projects/wacomexpresskeys/]("http://freshmeat.net/projects/wacomexpresskeys/")

---

### Post by jrrpnani on 2009-03-31
It's true. I didn't said anything about that. :( Sorry.
I have a serial Graphire Tablet, I think that it's the first model of Graphire that Wacom put on the market, it's a light blue model that I never see again. After that they bring the USB Graphire. :-o 

[IMG]http://www.itreviews.co.uk/graphics/normal/hardware/h102.jpg[/IMG]

I don't know what more can I said. 

I'm working with Ubuntu 8.04 and my xorg.cfg;
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
        Option        "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5" 
        Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
#	Option		"Buttons" "7"
#	Option		"ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"


EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
#Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom" # USB ONLY?
 Option        "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"      # SERIAL ONLY
 Option        "Type"          "stylus"
#Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"           # Tablet PC ONLY
#Option        "USB"           "on"               # USB ONLY
 Option        "PressCurve"    "0,5,95,100"         # Custom preference 50,0,100,50
 Option        "Threshold"     "5"                  # sensitivity to do a "click" 60
 Option		"HistorySize"	"64"		#Taille buffer
 Option        "Speed"         "1.0"
#Option 	"Touch" 	"off"

EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
#Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom" # USB ONLY?
 Option        "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"      # SERIAL ONLY
 Option        "Type"          "eraser"
#Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"           # Tablet PC ONLY
#Option        "USB"           "on"               # USB ONLY
 Option        "Threshold"     "5"                  # sensitivity to do a "click" 60
 Option        "Speed"         "1.0"
#Option 	"Touch" 	"off"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
#Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom" # USB ONLY?
 Option        "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"      # SERIAL ONLY
 Option        "Type"          "cursor"
#Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"           # Tablet PC ONLY
#Option        "USB"           "on"               # USB ONLY
 Option        "Threshold"     "5"                  # sensitivity to do a "click" 60
#Option		"Touch" 	"off"

EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "pad"
#Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"    # USB ONLY
 Option        "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"         # SERIAL ONLY
 Option        "Type"          "pad"
#Option        "USB"           "on"                  # USB ONLY
#Option 	"Touch" 	"off"

EndSection



Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
  Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
 InputDevice   "stylus"  "SendCoreEvents"
 InputDevice   "eraser"  "SendCoreEvents"
 InputDevice   "cursor"  "SendCoreEvents" # For non-LCD tablets only
 InputDevice   "pad"                      # For Intuos3/CintiqV5/Graphire4/Bamboo tablets
# InputDevice   "touch"   "SendCoreEvents" # Only a few TabletPCs support this type
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-31
Hi jrrpnani,

Is the mouse you are having trouble with connected through your Graphire serial tablet?  Or is it the seperate mouse for your computer?

Since it is a serial tablet I think you would want to remove the comment in front of:
```
#Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
```
like
```
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
```
In each section.

Have you calibrated your tablet with "wacomcpl"?  Your stylus has an eraser.  Does it have buttons on the stylus?  How many?

---

### Post by jrrpnani on 2009-04-02
It's about the mouse of the tablet. 
I have tried the part of ISDV4, but then stop working the tablet.
And finally, I have installed the wacom-tools, but I don't have the wacomcpl.:confused:

I want to try a "how to" that someone has post at another question that I've wrote about the pressure of the Stylus.

Then I hope to put more data here, or better, resolve the problem.

Thank you anyway.

---

### Post by jrrpnani on 2009-04-04
):P

At last!!! I have my Wacom mouse working like a mouse :)

I follow the post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949"). It doesn't work with the xorg.cfg. I use my previous version.
But I saw the line of salvation in this xorg.cfg;
Option          "Button2"        "3"  # make side-switch a right button
:p and it works. Also I have the wacomcpl tools to configure the tablet. Before, I didn't have it. And now I can try the other problems about pressure.

Thanks a lot to all.

---

