---
title: "10.10 Maverick 'Realtek High Definition Audio' Microphone Not Working"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by SkillenUK on 2010-10-12
Hi everyone,

I have clean installed 10.10 on my laptop which has a Realtek High Definition Audio sound card built in (full laptop spec is here [http://www.uktsupport.co.uk/advent/laptop/7201.htm](http://www.uktsupport.co.uk/advent/laptop/7201.htm)). The laptop just has two jacks on the front, one for a sound output (speakers, headphones, etc) and another to use for either microphone or line-in.

The problem I have is that I can't use my plug in microphone, the sound level does not light in the alsamixer and I can't use it in Skype etc. I have no options to select the microphone in the mixer input section (which I think I should have). Sound output works fine.

I have searched around the forums and found someone who suggested adding the following line to alsa-base.conf to solve a similar problem...

options snd-hda-intel model=3stack

Trying this added a drop down box in the alsamixer input options to select the microphone (3 options, line input, microphone 1, microphone 2). Selecting microphone 1 worked in that I could see the level move in the mixer when I speak. However this has stopped my sound output from working so I have removed the line again.

This suggests to me that this will work if I find the correct model setting, can anyone suggest which model setting I need to use (or can try) for this sound card. Thanks in advance for any help,

Chris :)

---

### Post by cankara46 on 2010-12-30
Ubuntu developers never fail to kill the enthusiasm of their fans! They did it again with 10.10. My microphone is not recognized at all! Sound recorder does not record from microphone. When I try System/Preferences/Sound, I get the message  "Waiting for sound system to respond"! How long can I wait, I am already 64! I can not talk to my grand daughter who is thousands of miles away.No Skype, No Google talk! I go through forums and try different suggestions without any result. Why is Volume control no more available? Someone explained that it is replaced by Panflute applet. But it is not the same thing. Help please!!!

---

### Post by ElPuma27 on 2010-12-30
I have a Toshiba laptop (A500-ST6622) and I was able to get the mic-in jack port to be detected and I'm able to record from it. I had to use PulseAudio Volume Control and had the program recognize all available connections, and then tell the program to choose to record or use that device.

---

### Post by Refresh100 on 2011-02-27
Bump, because I have the same problem

---

### Post by Angelontu22 on 2011-03-11
I have a Lenono Ideapad Y560 laptop with Realtek HD audio also. Integrated mic does not record sound. Have tried configuring System> Sound > Hardware with no results.

---

### Post by time52 on 2011-11-01
I have an HP tower, It work fine with 11.04 I regret very much to upgrade to 11.10 My skype does not work anymore, I use it for my phone.  I find the "modern" looks a disaster. What is going on guys, leave what works alone, and let's concentrate in what does not work, please.... Anybody can play, but as long as does not ruin the the beauty of the system

---

