---
title: "i82815 Kernel 2.6 vs 3.x.x Graphics Acceleration"
date: 2013-08-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Axxon95 on 2013-08-22
I have a few older machines here that are based on an older intel chipset, P3 processors and only have PCI slots.
To get hardware acceleration I have to install an older Linux, in this case Ubuntu 10.04. It gives me hardware 1.2 OpenGL and thats all good but at the cost of a heavier GUI and more RAM usage. 1 has 512MB RAM but the other only has 384MB.
I'm looking to install Lubuntu 13.04. By installing it a while back on other older machines I found out that to get hardware acceleration I have to add a not-to-old GPU to these older boards(like FX5200 and so forth). I'm looking to sell these machines so I don't plan on letting go of my only working PCI card.

I have plenty of AGP cards, but only 1 PCI card.

Can I get xorg to autoconfig to these older chipsets, or do I have to manually create an xorg config?

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-08-22
None of those computers have enough memory to install Lubuntu 13.04.

---

### Post by Axxon95 on 2013-08-22
> **gordintoronto said:**
> None of those computers have enough memory to install Lubuntu 13.04.

Yes they do [ [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu#System_Requirements](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu#System_Requirements) ], I have installed Lubuntu on a P3 667MHz with 384MB RAM. To get hardware graphics rendering I had to use my Radeon 9200 PCI card.
The P3 with 512MB is a 1GHz.
A while back I posted this screenshot to the Lubuntu Facebook page.

Dell L667R is one of those computers.

---

### Post by Axxon95 on 2013-08-23
Edit: I was recently enlighted that DRI2 is included instead of DRI1 so the chipset was dropped. I guess I'm going to have to install an older or different Linux.

---

