---
title: "11.10 no backlight"
date: 2011-11-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rdennings on 2011-11-14
eMachines E527

Processor:  Intel Celeron 900 @ 2.20  GHz
Ram:  2 GB
System: 64bit
Graphics Card:  Mobile Intel 4 Series Express Chipset Family



I had a bad experience with Ubuntu 11.04 because after installation I would start my laptop and there would be no backlight.. I would hold a flashlight up to the screen to see it.

I wanted to try 11.10 from a flashdrive to see if I had the same problem... Yes I do... Still no backlight.. Does anyone know a fix for this? Or should I just add my laptop to the incompatibility list?

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-14
You could see some details about your problem here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1451494](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1451494)

---

### Post by foresthill on 2011-11-14
There be some fixes in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741556&page=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741556&page=4)

Or "workarounds" at least. 

On my laptop, I had to connect an external monitor to install both 11.04 and 11.10, and then used the monitor to be able to see the terminal to apply the fixes.

I still get a blank screen upon hibernation that won't go away without a hard reset, and that's what kept me from switching over permanently to 11.04 or 11.10.

I won't go into any rants about how this problem should have been fixed months ago, as tempting as that might be. If anyone figures out how to get rid of the black screen on hibernation bug, post the fix here. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by rdennings on 2011-11-14
I will certainly try your method foresthill.... I will install first and hope this works.... 



And to your problem about hibernation.. I get the same problem with Win 8 Dev Preview occasionally but haven't been able to find out why yet but when I do I'll let you know 'cause it may be the same problem.

---

### Post by rdennings on 2011-11-17
Update: This worked great! Thank You very very much!!!  I love Ununtu and that disappointed me when my back light didn't work.

---

### Post by rband42 on 2011-12-20
I had the same issue during the installation...
Some days after the installation I accidental discovered that whenever I adjusted the back-light immediately after I switch on the laptop the backlight stays on!

This is how I have been using my laptop for about month now, I'm still looking for permanent solution.

I an using emachines e525

---

