---
title: "8.10 Intrepid and ATI Radeon HD 3200 problems - screen resolution"
date: 2009-03-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by teyesahr on 2009-03-03
I just installed Ubuntu 8.10 on my HP Pavilion dv5z. I'm new to Ubuntu, and in fact haven't used any distro of Linux since I last attempted to switch over to Red Hat back in 2002. So you can basically consider me to have *no idea what I'm doing*, although I am more computer-literate than the average person. Anyway, here's what happened:

(1) Wanting to check out the "desktop effects", I clicked System -> Preferences -> Appearance and changed the effects from "none" to "some" (or whatever: I'm typing this during my lunchbreak at work on my Windows laptop).

(2) It asked if I wanted to download and use the proprietary flgrx driver, and asked for my password; I clicked "yes" and gave it.

(3) It downloaded fine and seemed to install ok (on my 3rd try). I got some new, pretty effects.

(4) I changed my screen resolution (System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution) to something lower so that I wouldn't go blind at the ripe old age of 26. This is when I had my first hint of a problem: the graphical representation of my screen, which had previously said "15 in." in big letters, now said "unknown."

(5) I successfully lowered the screen resolution, but apparently to lower than I had intended. I was then unable to change it back or, indeed, to anything else.

(6) My (hopefully temporary) solution was to *deactivate* the proprietary drivers and go back to the default that was installed upon my installation of Intrepid. Everything works fine, but no 3D acceleration. I figure: if I pay for something, I should get full use of it.

Has anyone else had trouble getting their ATI Radeon HD 3200 to work? What's the fix? A brief sampling of the talk on this subject seems to indicate that one must be either (a) a masochist to want to install the proprietary drivers manually (after downloading from ATI's website) or (b) a linux kung fu master. I am neither. I am willing to put in a bit of work, however, because I hate Windows with a passion.... I've already spent over 2 hours working on my wireless card, and really just want things to work better out of the box.... Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by twoaday on 2009-05-12
I personally had some issues with the perfomance of the same video card (Radeon HD 3200) on a Dell Studio 1536, related to wierd flickering of the screen and horizontal lines that seemed to flash across the screen. However I did find some fixes for the issues after alot of searching. What I found was:
Upgrade the bios 
Enable the restricted drivers through Buntu 
For this Video card I found that you have to use the new version of the proprietary drivers from ATI, so download the ATI Catalyst Linux 9.4 driver that can be found here: ([http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/9.4](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/9.4))

Then go through the manual install described here: ([http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide))

Once I went through the install I went in and edited my xorg.conf file 
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

and followed the edit by markbuntu and made mine look as close as possible that post can be found here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=849422](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=849422)

After all of that I was still have a bit of an issue with the performance so I turned to my bios that I had just updated and checked the default settings for the brightness of the monitor, they were set to about 50%. After setting them to full 100% and rebooting the problem went away. Now I haven't tested this on any games (I don't usually play any video games) but my compiz is working great, and I am very happy with the performance. Give it a try.  

As for the wireless card, restricted drivers from Buntu worked awesone for me other that no Bluetooth. You may want ot look into ndiswrapper and try to configure the (once again here is that evil word) proprietary drivers for your wireless, can usually download the drivers from either HP or the manufacturer of the card itself.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Askar450 on 2009-07-19
I don't know if you have found a solution but I'm having the same problem on 9.04 Jaunty. I've tried the fglrx drivers but I can't manage to get 
"sudo insmod /lib/modules/`uname -r`/volatile/fglrx.ko"

to work either the file is missing or it already exist. The OpenSource 
drivers only support 2D acceleration. I don't think there is a fix ; ;
but if you still struggling with it or found a way to fix it send me a
message. >.<

---

