---
title: "13.10, radeon 4750, display problem"
date: 2014-01-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by sti.que.c.pas.faci on 2014-01-14
hi all, I've been using ubuntu for a few years now. I started to scratch learning my way into this. But now I'm in front a something I'm not able to fix.

My desktop's HDD failed so I've started with a fresh 13.10 install on my new HDD. 
here's the problem. I've always used fglx-legacy driver for my ATI radeon HD4750 graphic card, but since kernel 3.4 it isn't supported anymore by AMD.

I tried a few fix I saw here and there on this forum without success.

The open source driver works well with the VGA output but when on DVI output, I miss 1 inch all around the screen so I can't see the panel and the top windows bar and both sides too. 

With fglx-legacy I had to use (if I remember right) 1152x648 resoution to match my 46inch old Sony screen but this resolution isn't available with the open source driver.

so now I'm seeking for a solution.

either being able to install fglx-legacy or add the resolution I need to the open source driver ?

I've tried :
```
sudo cvt 1152 648 60
sudo xrandr  --newmode "1152x648_60.00"  59.91  1152 1200 1320 1488  648 649 652 671  -HSync +Vsync
sudo xrandr --addmode DVI-0 "1152X648_60.00"

```
 and when I choose the new mode I get a blank screen for 30sec then it comes back to my previous resolution

p.s. I tried the same thing for almost every 16:9 resolution possible without success

I also remember using an nvidia card w/ driver once and I was able to assign a display area (like in mythtv) (that would be awesome) would be a perfect fit
what's the easiest way ? 
How ?
& can someone point me in the right direction here ? plz!  

thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2014-01-15
> either being able to install fglx-legacy

Sorry, but AMD stopped updating their Linux drivers for their HD 2x/3x/4x-series cards last summer.  No Ubuntu versions newer than 12.04.1 will work with the fglrx drivers and one of those cards.

---

### Post by sti.que.c.pas.faci on 2014-01-15
And how about resizing my display area like nvidia is doing on their driver?

---

### Post by sti.que.c.pas.faci on 2014-01-20
I solved my problem.... bought a Nvidia

---

