---
title: "10.04 Wireless Networking on Compaq Presario CQ50"
date: 2010-05-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by naknak987 on 2010-05-25
I'm in need of a little help, My doctor said he couldn't help me...  so I figured I would ask here. LOL JK

I have a Compaq Presario CQ50 laptop, I currently has Windows 7 on it. I want to install Kubuntu on it, I made a live USB key with Kubuntu to install with and also to try out somethings and make sure they work. I can't even get it to connect to my router, witch is set up to NOT display the SSID, The laptop will pick up the neighbor's router tho, but won't connect either. Mind you I didn't install Kubuntu on my laptop its only running from a live USB. I'm not sure if installing Kubuntu fully would make a difference, but I don't want to unless I know for sure it's going to work, Wireless is a must and for some reason I have a lot of trouble with Ubuntu/Kubuntu on laptops in the past. I have searched google and this site with terms like "ubuntu 10.04 wireless network, ubuntu 10,04 wireless problems, ubuntu 10.04 wireless compaq presario cq50, Kubuntu 10.04...., ubuntu lucid lynx...."  the .... means repeated of an above term. Anyway another little kink I need to work out is getting logged in to my facebook account from that IM client That comes with ubuntu. I've tried the instructions on the facebook website with no luck and also some stuff I found here also with no luck. This is a problem on my desktop witch is running 10.04. Thanks for reading. I hope you can help.

UPDATE: I forgot to put this on here before and I just remembered, my wireless card is a, according to device manager in windows 7, Realtek RTL8102E/RTL8103E family PCI-E Fast ethernet NIC, or its this Atheros AR5007 802.11b/g wifi adapter, or microsoft virtual wifi miniport adapter. all three are in the device manager.

---

### Post by naknak987 on 2010-05-25
Update

---

### Post by pnorbee on 2010-08-25
Did you manage to find a solution? I'm in the same shoes... I'm brand new to Linux, and I put Kubuntu 10.04 on my compaq presario CQ50 US110, it installed very well, but wifi is not working. Further more, I do not have access to wired connection either, so I need a solution that can be downloaded and then copied / installed on my laptop. 

Thanks in advance!

---

