---
title: "... ist not a block device"
date: 2010-01-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by apaschou on 2010-01-30
Hi,

My goal is to mount some USB keys (I have two, both in vfat). I was expecting the key to automatically mount. This was not the case. Therefore, I tried to mount is manually. To get information where the key was, I used 'lsusb' command. The result is:

Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 009: ID 13fe:1a00 Kingston Technology Company Inc. 512MB/1GB Flash Drive
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

So obviously, my key is on bus 1, device 9. To mount the key, I tried the most logical command:

sudo mount -t vfat /dev/bus/usb/001/009 /media/usb1/

Good news: it doesn't say that the device doesn't exist. Bad news: it gaves next message (in french, but everybody will understand that mount considers my key not as a block device):

mount: /dev/bus/usb/001/009 n'est pas un périphérique de type bloc

I tried with auto filesystem detection, without more luck. Looking in the system logs, I can see:

Jan 30 21:20:18 Toshiba-ubuntu kernel: [ 3088.260045] usb 1-3: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 9
Jan 30 21:20:18 Toshiba-ubuntu kernel: [ 3088.399101] usb 1-3: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice

Well... does someone know that this log about configuration #1 mean ?

At that point, I am still stucked: no way to mount any usbkey on my ubuntu. Any help will be appreaciated. And if my miracle somebody finds a way to have it even automounted, I will be delighted :-). I had Ubuntu 9.4 in the past and if I remember well, they USB keys were auto-mounted at that time... but I am no 100% sure it was working witout some specific configuration I had to do in the past...

Regards.

System: Ubuntu 9.10 on Toshiba laptop.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2010-01-31
> **apaschou said:**
> 
[I]edit

[/I] I tried with auto filesystem detection, without more luck. Looking in the system logs, I can see:

Jan 30 21:20:18 Toshiba-ubuntu kernel: [ 3088.260045] usb 1-3: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 9
Jan 30 21:20:18 Toshiba-ubuntu kernel: [ 3088.399101] usb 1-3: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice

*edit*

Can you see any error message after the two lines from system log?

Plug in the USB drive, wait about 10 seconds, the run this command and post the output.
```
dmesg | tail -n 20
```

---

### Post by IcarusR on 2010-01-31
Use 

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

to find what the drives are designated as ie /dev/sda
Then mount with this command

```
sudo mount -t vfat /dev/sd? /media/usb1
```

---

### Post by apaschou on 2010-02-02
Hi everybody,

Thank you for all these answers. I started to do some tests based on your feed-back. I was going to the conclusion that the proposed solutions were not applicable for some reason. Arriving at this conclusion, I accepted a set of updates proposed automatically by ubuntu. I took some time to come to this forum (during this time, the update packages were downloaded and installed).

Then, starting to answer this post, I unplugged and plugged again to USB key to review the messages when... miracle... the USB key mounted automatically showing graphically the contained files !

Then, I can only assume that there was some bugs which have been corrected in the set of new packages I installed. I can now read and write to my USB key without any problems. I can only thank some developpers for this fix.

Best regards.

---

