---
title: "11.04: HP TouchSmart tm2-2150us Graphics"
date: 2011-09-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Cadeyrn on 2011-09-29
This laptop runs an Intel Core i3 1.33GHz and Intel HD Graphics and, unlike other tm2 models, there is no discreet ATI card added on. I went down a long rabbit hole to find I've had the current and correct video drivers installed this whole time, for 2D and 3D acceleration, but I'm not getting any. I don't know if acceleration is broken or if it's something else, but KDE won't let me enable desktop effects and Minecraft (and presumably all other games) crashes at launch because it can't load OpenGL. I might be getting 2D acceleration because videos and flash don't lag one bit, but definitely not 3D.

---

### Post by Cadeyrn on 2011-10-02
It was solved here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11301956&postcount=7](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11301956&postcount=7)
> Did you use the proprietary nvidia driver before? If so, remove that first. After that, try the following.

sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri xserver-xorg-video-intel xserver-xorg

Then reboot. If that does not solve the problem, boot Ubuntu off a live USB drive and see if it works there. If so, the nvidia driver likely replaced more than the fglrx driver does and someone else may know more on that topic and how to get things working again. Cheers.

Also, make sure you don't have fglrx installed. I did even though I've never run an ATI card on this installation or installed fglrx myself. If it is installed, you also have to remove it and reinstall those packages above.

---

