---
title: "11.10 problems with VGA compatible controller (Acer travelmate)"
date: 2011-10-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-10-26
Hello everyone,

I've been having problems with Xubuntu 11.10 since installation process. After I finally managed to install and run the system adding "nomodeset" to the grup entry, I am experiencing some graphic problems: the max resolution is 1024x768 and the max frequency is 61Hz.
It seems like drivers are not installed correctly

I have an **Intel corporation Mobile 4 series chipset integrated graphics controller **

Indeed I cannot change the brightness, not even the gamma using xgamma (when I try, nothing changes...)

any suggestions?
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-26
What model Travelmate is it?
What happens when you boot without nomodeset?
Can you post back the contents of /var/log/Xorg.0.log?

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-10-26
i don't know my travel mate model : ( might be 3550 as 5335...something like that. sorry!

Anyway without nomodeset it does not work: it boots to a black screen. nomodeset can also be replaced by i915.modeset=0 and it works just the same


here is my Xorg.0.log



[edit]too long[/edit]

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-26
The reason for your graphic problems is that your system is using the VESA driver and not the intel driver.

Can you run the following commands in a terminal window and post back the results:
```
sudo dmidecode -s system-product-name
```
```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-10-27
Ok, so my laptop model is TravelMate 5335, and this is the output of lspci | grep VGA :
```

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)

```

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-27
Okay. A few things to try. Make all kernel command line changes temporary by editing the kernel command line from the grub screen.

1. Boot with only the kernel parameter **i915.modeset=1**. Do this temporarily by editing the kernel command line from the grub screen. Also remove the **--verbose** parameter.

2. Boot with **nomodeset nosplash --verbose** (as you do now) and add this to **/etc/rc.local**:
```
setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=00
```
...just above the "exit 0" command. Then reboot in following ways:
[LIST=1]
[*]with no kernel command line parameters other than **quiet splash**
[*]with **i915.modeset=1 quiet splash**
[*]with **i915.modeset=1 quiet splash**
[/LIST]

3. If still not working, boot again as normal, comment out the "setpci" line in /etc.rc.local, then create **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** with the following content:
```
Section "Device"
    Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
    Driver     "intel"
    VendorName     "Intel Series 4"
    BusID       "PCI:0:2:0"
    #Option   "shadow"  "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier  "Configured Monitor"
    VendorName  "AUO"
    ModelName   "22ec"
    Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier  "Default Screen"
    Monitor     "Configured Monitor"
    Device      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection 
```
...and reboot:
[LIST=1]
[*]with only kernel parameters **quiet splash**
[*]with "setpci" command in **/etc/rc.local** enabled (uncommented) again.
[/LIST]

Post back which, if any, of those options work.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-10-28
Thanks for the suggestions! So far I just tried point 1 and 2 and none of them seem to work. As soon as I have some more free time I'll post the results of the other operations.

Here you suggested three things but two are actually the same:
[QUOTE=Toz;11401234]
Then reboot in following ways:
[LIST=1]
[*]with no kernel command line parameters other than **quiet splash**
[*]with **i915.modeset=1 quiet splash**
[*]with **i915.modeset=1 quiet splash**
[/LIST]

did you mean i915.modeset=0 ? and when you say to try with NO arguments , does it mean i need to delete also "ro vga=775" ?

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-28
I've read in a few places about i915.modeset=1. Can you try it to see if it makes a difference?

What is your current kernel command line (I was going by the information in your xorg log file)? I would suggest leaving **ro** there, but removing the **vga=775** command for now.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-10-28
Hello,

I asked if you meant i915.modeset=1 because in your list point 2 and 3 are exactly the same ;)

Here is what happens:

it boots either with the option nomodeset or the option i915.modeset=0
Without one of these two options the screen always goes black after the booting process.

If I add that line to /etc/rc.local nothing seems to change.

If I add those sections in xorg.conf (which I created) the boot process stops after *checking battery state... saying:

```
Ubuntu 11.10 computer_name tty
computer_name login: [ 18.204286] ieee80211 phy0: wl_ops_bss_info_changed: qos enabled:false (implement)
[ 18.204355] ieee80211 phy0: brcmsmac: wl_ops_bss_info_changed: enabled true, count 0 (implement)
[ 18.261947] ieee80211 phy0: wl_ops_bss_info_changed: arp filtering: enabled true, count 1 (implement)
```

what is very strange to me is that I never had problems with ubuntu, nor with versione 11.10 neither with previous ones...

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-28
I've come across a couple of instances in the past with the intel card where the system is booting fine, graphics using intel driver and all, but the brightness is turned down and nothing can be seen (plus the brightness keys doen't work). Some more things to try:

1. boot with the kernel parameters:
```
acpi_osi=
acpi-osi=linux
acpi_backlight=vendor
acpi-osi=linux acpi_backlight=vendor
```

2. If you have an external monitor you can plug into the laptop, try booting with it plugged in. This will bypass the brightness issue and you may get a visible screen. If it does work, it will verify that brightness is the issue.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-10-30
I'm home for the weekend so I finally had the chance to try using an external monitor (and then read that you also suggested that :) )
Here's what happens:

if i boot with my grub config (nomodeset nosplash verbose) the display behaves exactly like the laptop display: low resolution, no possible configuration (the laptop display doesn't turn on though).
I just booted without those options and now I finally have the option to configure the resolution and refresh rate of this screen (which is now 1280xH, 75Hz).
So, yes. everything works well with an external monitor, given that the laptop monitor is off.
The strange thing is that when I booted without my usual (nomodeset nosplash etc) options, the desktop background went back to the original one and the system asked me what kind of session I wanted to start.
Besides that everything works fine though.

You're suggesting the issue is brightness: I never was able to change it (not even on Ubuntu) so it's very probable. The fact is that when it's trying to boot, it's not like the laptop screen is just black: after a few seconds it turns off! Could it still be a brightness issue?

I also tried to boot with the parameters you suggested: no luck.
But now I have a lot of confusion and there's a lot of possible combinations of these parameters: when you suggest booting with acpi_backlight=vendor and so on, what other parameters should I keep and what should I remove from the previous configurations?

My default set of parameters is:

ro vga=775 nomodeset nosplash --verbose

Thank you again, as always : )

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-30
Progress.

I would suggest trying the following next. Boot into your system whatever way gets you there. Edit the file **/etc/rc.local** and add or edit the setpci command to read (make sure the command is above the "exit 0" command):
```
/usr/bin/setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=FF
```
(note the change to add the full path to the setpci command and changing of value 00 to FF).
Save the file.

Boot again without "vga=775 nomodeset nosplash --verbose" and with no external monitor connected. Do you get a visible screen on the laptop lcd?

If not, add the **acpi_backlight=vendor** kernel parameter to the mix. If you still get a blank screen on boot, try the brightness controls on the laptop, both up and down (I've seen bugs where they get reversed).

Its looking like an acpi issue. The setpci command, if it works, will set the brightness value to full and hopefully increase the display. The acpi_backlight=vendor parameter instructs acpi to leave the brightness interface alone so that it can managed manually.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-10-31
:(

both with and without acpi_backlight=vendor the screen turns to black and then off... nothing seem to change on the surface!

[ I'm also wondering.... my hardware configuration should be quite common, right? Why aren't there many posts about this problem out there? ]

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-31
Here is a related thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1866283&highlight=sys%2Fclass%2Fbacklight]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1866283&highlight=sys%2Fclass%2Fbacklight"). The solution there appears to be to prevent the video module from loading.

What are the contents of your /sys/class/backlight directory? If you have two directories, including and intel one, the fix appears to be to blacklist the video module and boot with acpi_backlight=vendor.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-11-01
My /sys/class/backlight folder contains only **acpi_video0**

As suggested in that thread i tried typing

```
sudo bash -c "echo 2 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness"
```

also with values different than 2 (1,8,9) but nothing happened at all!

as suggested in the other thread I typed
```
sudo modprobe -r video
FATAL: Module video is in use.

```

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-11-01
Try booting with the acpi_backlight=vendor kernel parameter and see if you get another entry there. Might be intel_backlight, but lets confirm. 

If it does exist (intel_backlight), try echoing values in there to see if you can affect brightness. 

If that works, then:
```
sudo bash -c "echo 'blacklist video' >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf"
```
...and reboot. This command will prevent it from loading.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-11-01
with **acpi_backlight=vendor** option in /sys/class/backlight i get a folder named **acer-wmi**

But if i try
```
sudo bash -c "echo 2 > /sys/class/backlight/acer-wmi/brightness"

```
nothing changes (again, with values from 1 thru 9)

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-11-02
What are the contents of /sys/class/backlight/acer-wmi/max_brightness?

With the acer_wmi interface, can you now try:
```
sudo setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=ff
sudo setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=7f
sudo setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=00
```
...to see if there is any change to the brightness.

Also try:
```
xbacklight -set 50
xbacklight -set 100

```
...you may need to install xbacklight from the repositories.

And finally, do you now have a /sys/devices/platform/acer-wmi/backlight/acer-wmi/? Are there brightness files there and can you force a brightness change.

If you have this working with the external monitor plugged in and the lcd off, the brightness controls might not work. Try adding:
```
echo 10 > /sys/class/backlight/acer-wmi/brightness
``` into your /etc/rc.local file (before the exit 0) and rebooting without the external monitor plugged in.

Another option might be to install openssh-server so that you can ssh from another machine and try adjusting the brightness controls remotely (instead of rebooting all the time)

EDIT: One more thing to try - try booting with the following kernel parameters:
```
acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor
```

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-11-02
Edit:I forgot to mention I do not have the chance to use an external monitor right now.

first thing i noticed is that booting with acpi_osi=linux and acpi_backlight=vendor made the "verbose" part of the booting process much better looking (smaller and correctly indented text)

> **Toz said:**
> What are the contents of /sys/class/backlight/acer-wmi/max_brightness?

9


the sudo setpci -s command works:
```
sudo setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=ff
```
makes it all black, while
```
sudo setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=0
```
makes it very bright.
But this works also without acpi_vendor and acpi_osi parameters, or, works also when in /sys/class/backlight there is onli acpi_video0


Installed xbacklight:
with both the booting configurations, I get a 
> No outputs have backlight property


I do have a /sys/devices/platform/acer-wmi/backlight/acer-wmi/

with files such as actual brightness (was containing "3"). Tried to edit with a sudo command but didn't work.

This is the content of my rc.local:

```
/usr/bin/setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=00
echo 10 > /sys/class/backlight/acer-wmi/brightness
exit 0
```

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-11-02
Ok. 
Change /etc/rc.local to read:
```

/usr/bin/setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=0
exit 0
```
Then boot with "acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor" (no external monitor).

Do you get a visible screen that you can change the resolution on?

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-11-03
ok so i tried 
acpi_osi=Linux (capital L) and acpi_backlight=vendor
after that I also tried leaving vga=775 and --verbose

Both times, same situation: it boots, than the screen turns off.
This time, though, it comes back after a while (i'd say 2 minutes) with a reasonably high-resolution screen that is smaller than my lcd screen (a square in the middle). If I try to do anything (press a button, move the mouse) the screen will shut back down.

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-11-03
if I try using acpi_osi=linux with small "l" the screen does not turn on

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-11-03
When the screen goes blank (shuts down), can you use your brightness keys to adjust brightness?

How about also trying:
```
acpi_osi= acpi_backlight=vendor
```
or
```
acpi_osi=\"Linux\" acpi_backlight=vendor
```

And here is an interesting link (using the setpci command for 11.04): [http://www.markuswalther.com/tech/backlight.html]("http://www.markuswalther.com/tech/backlight.html"). It mentions that if you dim the brightness manually as the computer is booting, it makes a difference. Does it work for you?

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-11-03
Link of interest: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11374680&postcount=44]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11374680&postcount=44")

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-11-03
Using acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor
Having installed setbrightness (found on the topic mentioned above)

Finally my screen still turns black, but I am able to control the brightness from my keyboard, which is something I had never accomplished with ubuntu so far!

Toz, thank you so much for your kindness. You've been a great help.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-11-03
Glad to hear. Can you now also change your resolution to the one you wanted?

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-11-03
I can only change it from 1024x768 to 1366x768, but the last one works fine with me.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-11-03
Can you mark this thread as solved then from the Thread Tools link above?

---

### Post by ginestre on 2011-12-12
I have exactly this same problem on the self same model Travelmate, but I'm very confused by all of the details above: it seems to my untrained eye that some attempts to solve the issue failed, and some were helpful- but I can't sort the one group from the other. Could someone who understands more than I do, post a synthesis, like a sort of HOW TO?

As always, TIA

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-12-12
Hi ginestre,

I solved the problem adding the options 
```
acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor
```
to the default grub entry, and then following the 'Simple solution' tutorial found here:
[http://www.markuswalther.com/tech/backlight.html](http://www.markuswalther.com/tech/backlight.html)
(you just have to download and extract the archive and follow the instrucions)

Hope this helps
__[]("http://www.markuswalther.com/tech/backlight_control.tar.gz")

---

### Post by ginestre on 2011-12-12
Thanks for that! I added the line you suggested to the boot, by pressing e during boot up and getting to the GRUB sceen. Then, after adding your option at the end of the vmlinux line, I pressed F10 and it booted perfectly! Did yours also work at this stage, or did you also need to do the second stage from the page you linked to?

Next question, if I may- how do I make these needed options a part of the automatic boot process? I looked for a menu.lst file (which was what I found by searching for HOW TO do this kind of stuff)  in /boot, but there isn't one and nothing else looks similarly named...

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-12-12
The file you want to edit is **/etc/default/grub**. Append the parameters to the end of the line starting:
> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=......
...so that is looks something like:
```

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor"

```
...Note: your line may look different.

Then, run the following command to make it permanent:
```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by ginestre on 2011-12-12
Thanks for that: I followed the instructions and the grub values are modified as you told me to.

However- and this is very strange - when I boot up the computer I can see nothing at all (screen is black) until after login, when the screen becomes visible if I press Fn and F6 twice [EDIT: It's three times I now find on repeating the prcedure several times.] If I have an external monitor plugged in, then I can follow the process on that. The exact sequence is

- power on. Screens blank. 
- grub menu appears, allowing me to choose o/s. Visible only on external monitor
- default is ubuntu: wait and it starts to boot automatically
- login screen appears on external monitor. Enter password.
- logs in. Visible on external monitor.
- after ubuntu sound plays, press Fn and F6 once. External monitor blacks out. 
- Press Fn + F6  a second time. Nothing.
- Press Fn + F6  a third time. Both monitor and screen light up. 

If I unplug the external monitor (hdmi) then it's just the same except I can see nothing at all until after I have heard the sound and done F6 twice.

Any ideas? And once again, as ever, TIA.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-12-12
Try this:

1. Open /etc/rc.local for editing:
```
sudo gedit /etc/rc.local
```

2. Just above the *exit 0* command, enter the following line:
```
/usr/bin/setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=0
```

3. Save the file and reboot.

This should set the brightness to full on boot.

---

### Post by ginestre on 2011-12-17
Thanks, Toz: that did the trick perfectly!:lolflag:

---

