---
title: "video driver for i810"
date: 2009-01-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-19
i've installed ubuntu 8.04 on an hp pavilion 520w with gnome.
i believe it's using the intel i810 chipset.

i can only get 800x600 resolution and everything is extremely slow and the desktop flaky. i've looked all over for a solution.

please???

tks.

lee

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-19
Please copy/paste this into terminal and post the output back:
```
lspci
```

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-19
thank you.

[lees@jack]:/home/lees/junk: lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 (GMCH) Graphics Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:01.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 (CGC) Chipset Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801AA PCI Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801AA ISA Bridge (LPC) (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801AA IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801AA USB Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801AA AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
01:0a.0 Communication controller: Agere Systems LT WinModem (rev 02)
01:0d.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
[lees@jack]:/home/lees/junk:

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-19
In terminal copy/paste the following one at a time:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Then post the results.

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-20
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-20
Do you have "linux-restricted-modules" installed ??  It should be in Synaptic.

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-20
well i don't use synaptic but i suppose apt-get would work.
i'm @ work so will have to wait until i get home to
see if i have it.

so after it's installed then what?

thanks for helping. this has really been a struggle.

lee

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-20
I have an Intel 810 graphics card just like you. Here's how I got mine to work:

1. Open up File Browser (Nautilus)

2. Go to */usr/share/applications/*

3. Look for a "Screens and Graphics" icon. It'll have a monitor with a yellow ruler over it. Double Click on it.

4. In the dialog that appears, configure your graphics card. Select "i810" for the driver. Then, for a monitor type, select "LCD Panel 1024x768". I'm assuming your screen resolution is 1024x768. If it's not, select the appropriate monitor with the correct resolution.

5. Press OK. Reboot

This is how I got my graphics card to work. Hope it helps! :)

PS. You're lucky that you chose 8.04 instead of 8.10. 8.10 comes with an autodetection feature that seriously doesn't work properly. I was stuck with the 800x600 resolution when I upgraded. :D

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-20
I haven't heard of issues with the i810 driver in quite a while.  The driver is called "xserver-xorg-video-intel" and it should have been installed by default.

Most of the troubleshooting information about your card is very old.  If any information you find mentions "i810 driver" or "915 resolution" it's outdated and should be disregarded.

Unfortunately, this is the only information I have for you.  I have an Intel 965 graphics card myself, and it worked fine with no configuration.  Perhaps you should look at [bug reports]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bugs") or file one yourself.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-20
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> PS. You're lucky that you chose 8.04 instead of 8.10. 8.10 comes with an autodetection feature that seriously doesn't work properly. I was stuck with the 800x600 resolution when I upgraded. :D

The "intel" driver is supposed to support your card (not "i810") I highly recommend you [file a bug report]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bugs").

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-20
This isn't a BUG at all! Let's see if my suggestion works first and then he can decide what to do. I'm not trying to harsh or selfish, but I seriously think my method will work. I've done it before and it worked for me! And i810 is the native driver for Intel graphics cards. The intel driver will work, but it's still in experimental.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-20
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> The intel driver will work, but it's still in experimental.
This hasn't been true since Gusty.

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-20
Oh, I see. My bad. I primarily use Fedora (dual boot Fedora and Ubuntu) and it's still in experimental for them...

anyways, lets see if the op fixes the problem... :)

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-20
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> anyways, lets see if the op fixes the problem... :)

Agreed, the i810 driver is still available in Ubuntu, but I believe it's no longer being developed. (in Intrepid it's been moved to the Universe repository, meaning it's not officially supported)

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-20
gettinoriginal:

root@jack:~# dpkg --get-selections | grep restricted
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-19-generic	install
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-22-generic	install
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-23-generic	install
linux-restricted-modules-common			install
linux-restricted-modules-generic		install
root@jack:~# 

but i don't understand how that helps video.


icanfly0307:

i followed directions and it looked good but i'd click OK
and nothing seemed to stick.  i think that's the problem.
like the video is a generic.

where are the relevant files i could edit?


Thelesko:

xserver-xorg-video-intel is installed.

////////////
thanks for all the sugs, but it still has low res, is slower 
than molasses and flaky.  hard to do anything.

the problem must be in the file that selects the devices for
the video driver.

lee

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-20
On my computer, I had to do it 3 times to get the option to stick. Try doing it a couple of times and trying again.

PS. You're using the "vesa" driver now, since you're in the 800x600 resolution. That's what's making your display flaky. Vesa is generic and is *REALLY HORRIBLY* slow.

---

### Post by densou on 2009-01-20
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> Oh, I see. My bad. I primarily use Fedora (dual boot Fedora and Ubuntu) and it's still in experimental for them..

when I tried latest Fedora Live-CD, I was shocked to found out developers included a *work-in-progress* mesa build (7.3 branch) and 3d didn't work out-of-the-box at all as almost major distros does (anyway, with an OUTDATED mesa build ^^ ) :(

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-20
OK. Hang on. I'm attaching my /etc/X11/xorg.conf. That's the file that configures your video card. Since we both have the same video card, my configuration should work for you...

Here's how to do it:

1. Download my attachment and save it.
2. Open a terminal and type: [FONT="Courier New"]sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup[/FONT]
3. Type: [FONT="Courier New"]cp ***<path to my attachment>*** /etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT]
4. Reboot and tell me if it works.

PS. If you can't get X to start at all, log in from tty1 and do this:

1. sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
2. sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf

(Basically what this does is replace the original backup file if anything goes wrong.)

Good Luck! :)

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-20
Never Mind. IGNORE MY PREVIOUS POST. I can't upload a .conf file. :(

Anyways try this:

1. Open a terminal and type: sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
2. Type: sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
3. Replace the entire file's contents with this:

# Xorg configuration created by system-config-display

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "single head configuration"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Keyboard0"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us+inet"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "yes"
	Option	    "LeftEdge" "120"
	Option	    "RightEdge" "830"
	Option	    "TopEdge" "120"
	Option	    "BottomEdge" "650"
	Option	    "FingerLow" "14"
	Option	    "FingerHigh" "15"
	Option	    "MaxTapMove" "110"
	Option	    "VertScrollDelta" "20"
	Option	    "HorizScrollDelta" "20"
	Option	    "MinSpeed" "0.3"
	Option	    "MaxSpeed" "0.75"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
	ModelName    "LCD Panel 1024x768"
	HorizSync    31.5 - 48.0
	VertRefresh  56.0 - 65.0
	Option	    "dpms"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Videocard0"
	Driver      "i810"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "Videocard0"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth     16
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes	 "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection


(Don't worry. If anything goes wrong, do this:

1. sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
2. sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Good Luck!

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-20
i used ur xorg.conf file and the screen looked better but the mouse
was dead.  so i've been screwing around with the keyboard and mouse
section, which usually hoses things and i have to bring back up
in repair mode.

sigh.....  makes a guy wanna go down and buy a mini mac.\

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-20
Awesome! We're one step ahead! :) By the way, when you say that the "screen was better", were you able to get the full resolution? And to fix your keyboard and mouse, do this:

1. In the terminal: sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
2. In the terminal: sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
3. You should get your old screen with the keyboard and mouse working now.
4. Open up a Terminal in GNOME: sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
5. Search for the following sections and replace with what I give you:

***_a)_*** **Section "Monitor":** Replace theentire section with:

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
ModelName "LCD Panel 1024x768"
HorizSync 31.5 - 48.0
VertRefresh 56.0 - 65.0
Option "dpms"
EndSection

***_b)_*** **Section "Device":** Replace the entire section with:

Section "Device"
Identifier "Videocard0"
Driver "i810"
EndSection

***_c)_*** **Section "Screen":** Replace the entire section with:

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Videocard0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 16
SubSection "Display"
Viewport 0 0
Depth 16
Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Viewport 0 0
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection
EndSection

I'm pretty sure that this will solve your problem. Basically, what happened before was that I gave you my mouse and keyboard drivers with my xorg.conf when you didn't have the same hardware as me...

Good Luck! :)

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-21
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> OK. Hang on. I'm attaching my /etc/X11/xorg.conf. That's the file that configures your video card. Since we both have the same video card, my configuration should work for you...

FYI xorg.conf is deprecated in Ubuntu.  That's why Lee Slaughter's xorg.conf file says "configured device" etc.  The video card is supposed to be automatically detected on boot.

Although, since Lee Slaughter's card isn't being configured properly at boot, editing the xorg.conf file is a valid solution.

After some searching I managed to find the [documentation]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution") for the new version of xserver.  Apparently you are supposed to use the command "xrandr"

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-21
[Here's some more useful information.]("http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#Using__.24_xrandr")
>    ```
xrandr: screen cannot be larger than 1600x1600 (desired size 2624x1200)
```

This can be fixed by editing xorg.conf and changing the virtual line (see example above) to something like:

  ```
 Virtual 2624 1200
```


---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-21
I agree. xorg.conf is deprecated but it still works. Unfortunately, it doesn't work in Ubuntu 8.10 which is why I said he was lucky selecting Ubuntu 8.04.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-21
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> Unfortunately, it doesn't work in Ubuntu 8.10 which is why I said he was lucky selecting Ubuntu 8.04.

I simply don't understand that decision.  How are we supposed to troubleshoot?

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-21
sorry for slow reply. sidetracked and now @ work.

icanfly0507,
ok, i'll try this when i get home, but my monitor is an old Viewsonic
G590 (i think is the number).  is the LCD designation you suggest
ok you think?


Thelasko, your documentation url to the new xserver is pretty good,
but it just seems to indicate that xorg.conf is mostly empty but
can sill be used to fix things.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-22
> **Lee Slaughter said:**
> Thelasko, your documentation url to the new xserver is pretty good,
but it just seems to indicate that xorg.conf is mostly empty but
can sill be used to fix things.

That's my conclusion as well, but I have believe it will go away completely sometime in the near future.  Xorg.conf basically exists only to override the settings Ubuntu uses automatically.

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-22
@ Thelasko: You're right, xorg.conf exists to override the automatic settings. However, this doesn't work in 8.10. Of course, I filed a bug report immediately so I hope that it gets fixed in Jaunty Jackalope.

@ Lee Slaughter: Yeah, that's fine. 1024x768 is a safe resolution for most computers that were made after 1997. If it stil doesn't work, post here and I'll try to help you out. :)

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-22
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> @ Thelasko: You're right, xorg.conf exists to override the automatic settings. However, this doesn't work in 8.10.

I played around with the xorg.conf file in a virtual machine I have running Xubuntu 8.10.  Xserver crashed when I restarted it, so I assume it does something.

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-22
icanfly307:

i tried your xorg.conf and machine came up with a really low res
terminal screen only.

so i went back to xfix again and we're back where we started.

i'm sure the driver is there and i'm sure it can be fixed with
the right xorg.conf.   i think.

i haven't tried xrandr yet, that way i could set the resolution.

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-22
Okay. I've just noticed. The section that says "ServerLayout" has variables that are specific to each different xorg.conf. So I'm guessing this is the hard way for us to go. Try my first suggestion again a couple of times. I've had to do it 3 times before I finally got it work...

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-22
Okay, I think I figured it out.

I played around on my virtual machine using some of the documentation and got it to display a higher resolution.

Use your stock Xorg.conf file and add to the "Screen" section:
```
       SubSection "Display"
           Depth		24
           Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
           # ADD A VIRTUAL LINE TO PROVIDE FOR THE LARGEST SCREENS YOU WILL HOTPLUG 
           Virtual              2048 2048 
       EndSubSection
```
You can enter whatever is appropriate for your monitor to the "Modes" line.  You may want to trim back the settings on the "Virtual" line to increase performance.  A more detailed example is [here]("http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#xorg.conf").  From what I can understand about this, we aren't playing with the auto-configured settings, we are simply specifying monitor modes that aren't automatically detected.  (if that makes any sense)

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-22
> **Thelasko said:**
> Okay, I think I figured it out.

I played around on my virtual machine using some of the documentation and got it to display a higher resolution.

Use your stock Xorg.conf file and add to the "Screen" section:
```
       SubSection "Display"
           Depth		24
           Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
           # ADD A VIRTUAL LINE TO PROVIDE FOR THE LARGEST SCREENS YOU WILL HOTPLUG 
           Virtual              2048 2048 
       EndSubSection
```
You can enter whatever is appropriate for your monitor to the "Modes" line.  You may want to trim back the settings on the "Virtual" line to increase performance.  A more detailed example is [here]("http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#xorg.conf").  From what I can understand about this, we aren't playing with the auto-configured settings, we are simply specifying monitor modes that aren't automatically detected.  (if that makes any sense)

Yeah that makes sense. That's what happened when I first installed Ubuntu. It didn't detect my laptop monitor's highest resolution and I had to manually set it to "LCD Panel 1024x768". But I don't see how your technique is going to work for Lee Slaughter... I mean, he's not running a Virtual Machine is he? Or can your xorg.conf work with anything?

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-23
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> But I don't see how your technique is going to work for Lee Slaughter... I mean, he's not running a Virtual Machine is he? Or can your xorg.conf work with anything?

It's not messing with any drivers directly, it's only specifying monitor resolutions.  I believe these i810 cards, or at least the drivers for them, aren't capable of automatically detecting the monitor's resolution.  The above code manually feeds the driver the resolution it should display. 

I think it will work with anything.  There's only one way to find out...

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-23
Yup. That's a big disadvantage with i810 cards. You have to specifically specify "Modes" line in the "Monitor" section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-23
@Lee Slaughter: Try this command: xrandr -s 1024x768. I think this is what Thelasko has been trying to get you to do so far...

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-23
that gives me:
Size 1024x768 not found in available modes

i also put in the display subsection under monitor and the machine came up
in console mode with the font way off, etc.

so back to xfix again.  sigh....

in addition to the low res, i mentioned at the beginning that
all the desktop/gui apps are extremely slow and jerky.

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-01-24
Going to /usr/share/applications/Screens and Graphics should work... I don't know why it won't work for your computer. And the reason why everything is flaky is because you're using the generic "vesa" driver which is extremely slow. 

PS. I know this might sound dumb but do you have destop effects enabled? My desktop used to be flaky because I had my desktop effects enabled in Fedora... Just a thought.

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-24
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> Going to /usr/share/applications/Screens and Graphics should work... I don't know why it won't work for your computer. And the reason why everything is flaky is because you're using the generic "vesa" driver which is extremely slow. 

PS. I know this might sound dumb but do you have destop effects enabled? My desktop used to be flaky because I had my desktop effects enabled in Fedora... Just a thought.

i'll try Screens and Graphics again.

"I had my desktop effects enabled in Fedora"  ??
so i should enable or disable and how do you do that?\\

---

### Post by Lee Slaughter on 2009-01-25
well, i guess you guys have given up.
dead thread.\

i'll go repost it with details over on desktop.


but many tks for trying.

we're getting close to buying a minimac!!!!

lee

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-01-26
> **Lee Slaughter said:**
> well, i guess you guys have given up.
dead thread.\

Sorry, I don't post much on the weekend.

Try what I mentioned [in this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6598938&postcount=32").  Remember to use your standard Xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by Gridpoet on 2009-02-05
i have an HP xt6050 laptop that i've been trying to get to display in a resolution above 640x480

i've literally scoured the forums and tried everything i've read...

half of it doesn't seem to work in 8.10

i'm so frustrated right now i could scream...

it has an Intel Chipset, but no mater what driver i specify in xorg.conf it will not find the hardware... i cant even seem to set the resolution manually..

i'm at the end of my rope... should i just revert to 8.04 and see if that works? Because as it stands the auto-detect in 8.10 is terrible and the manual config is nearly non-existent...

i'm sure i'm horribly naive, but shouldn't this be priority one? A user can forgive a lot if the operating system at least looks acceptable... as it stands, i cant get Ubuntu to look mildy decent on my laptop or my Desktop (ATI 4850) 

i'm going to go drink myself blind now...

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2009-02-05
Yes, switch to 8.04. If you want, you could file a bug report for 8.10 but there's no way you an get it to work in 8.10. I spent over a month trying but just gave up and switched to 8.04. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-02-05
> **icanfly0307 said:**
> If you want, you could file a bug report for 8.10 but there's no way you an get it to work in 8.10.

Please file a bug report.  Even if it doesn't get 8.10 fixed, it may prevent this from happening in 9.04.

I've heard [other reports]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1056251") that the intel driver for 8.10 is broken. I don't know what the developers did, but it's a big problem.

---

### Post by jsegel on 2009-03-22
is anyone getting anywhere with this i810 issue? i have installed UbuntuStudio 8.10 on my old sharp mv12 laptop and now have a choice of black screen (with vesa driver) or no screen. 
i've read all the forum answers about what lines/modes/drivers to edit into xorg.conf, none are working at all. very frustrating. 
i end up with 
(EE) intel(0) Unable to write to DVOI2C_E slave 236
etc.
works if i plug in an external monitor! of course, that's impractical for a laptop that i want to travel with...

WTF?

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-03-23
> **jsegel said:**
> is anyone getting anywhere with this i810 issue? i have installed UbuntuStudio 8.10 on my old sharp mv12 laptop and now have a choice of black screen (with vesa driver) or no screen. 
i've read all the forum answers about what lines/modes/drivers to edit into xorg.conf, none are working at all. very frustrating. 
i end up with 
(EE) intel(0) Unable to write to DVOI2C_E slave 236
etc.
works if i plug in an external monitor! of course, that's impractical for a laptop that i want to travel with...

WTF?

Your problem isn't the same as the one above, I suggest you start a new thread about it.

---

