---
title: "[10.10] Reseting to original wireless drivers, because I can't connect to the net now"
date: 2011-04-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by spupy on 2011-04-05
I was playing around with some wireless drivers and that resulted in a driver mess. The hardware is a Broadcom wireless chip in a HP/Compaq mini 311c. (I can't find the exact model of the broadcom.)

The program that recommends proprietary drivers in ubuntu offered to install the B43 driver when I started Ubuntu, and it worked very well at that time. Then I started messing with some STA driver, some "wl" kernel module, some other drivers, then B43 again.

Now I can't connect to most networks (if not all). The "Additional drivers" dialog still says that the B43 driver is installed and running, but I suspect that I was unable to completely remove the other drivers and that is messing up my wireless connectivity.

It is also possible that problem is not with the drivers, because I just noticed that the NetworkManager can't connect even with DHCP and an ethernet cable! Currently, the only way to connect my netbook to the internet is to plug in the cable and do "sudo dhclient eth0" in the console.
Is it worth it to try install some other network manager (wicd, connman,...), or maybe try to connect to a wireless AP with iwconfig. I think that a success with wicd/connman/iwconfig will pinpoint the problem to NetworkManager.

What I wanted to ask is, how to "reset" this driver situation to what it looked like first when I installed ubuntu and everything still worked before I borked it.

EDIT: Nope, connman and wicd weren't able to connect.

---

