---
title: "12.04 can't get graphics to work properly"
date: 2013-10-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Daniel_Emerick on 2013-10-17
Hi Everyone,

since about a week I am running Ubuntu 12.04.03.

At first I had the problem, that my screen froze randomly. So I updatet my graphics card. I downloaded the driver from the NVIDIA homepage and installed it. Then everything seemed to be ok. The next day i wanted to use my two external screens and didn't get them to work at all. So I tried a hole lot of different drivers. I can't even tell what I have installed because I tried so many things. 

Now my system doesn't start a GUI. Only if I use my external screens I can get a graphical interface. 

I will post some specifications later when I am loged in with Ubuntu.

Please, somebody help me...

---

### Post by jos-digiplace on 2013-10-19
sudo apt-get install linux-source[FONT=Georgia, Times New Roman, Times, serif][SIZE=1][COLOR=#111111]
[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]sudo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r)

The important thing is that you first blacklist the nouveau driver:

A simple way to prevent Nouveau from loading and performing a kernel modeset is to add configuration directives for the module loader to a file in /etc/modprobe.d/. These configuration directives can technically be added to any file in /etc/modprobe.d/, but many of the existing files in that directory are provided and maintained by your distributor, which may from time to time provide updated configuration files which could conflict with your changes. Therefore, it is recommended to create a new file, for example, /etc/modprobe.d/disable-nouveau.conf, rather than editing one of the existing files, such as the popular /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf. Note that some module loaders will only look for configuration directives in files whose names end with .conf, so if you are creating a new file, make sure its name ends with .conf.
Whether you choose to create a new file or edit an existing one, the following two lines will need to be added:


blacklist nouveau
options nouveau modeset=0

Then you install the nvidia driver.

---

