---
title: "pc4200 - pc24200 memory....is there a difference?"
date: 2008-12-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by fewjr on 2008-12-23
Hello All,
I have a motherboard that is supposed to support up to 2 GIGs of DDR2 533 RAM. I bought 2 gigs, ( G.SKILL 2GB (2 x 1GB) 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM DDR2 533 (PC2 4200) System Memory), but the board will only recognize 1 GiG. There isn't anything in the BIOS to select to change this. I can not find anything that tells me if PC2 4200 is different that PC 4200. If you have a board that supports 2 gigs and you install memory that is called a dual-channel kit, will that cause the problem. Is that why it is only seeing 1 gig? In other words, will a dual-channel pair of memory work in a board that doesn't support dual-channel as 2 sticks of 1 gig each? I haven't been able to find an answer anywhere yet.

Here is info on the board:
```
AMIBIOS Motherboard Identification Utility v 1.4
This file has recorded information useful in identifying the manufacturer of this motherboard. You must contact your motherboard manufacturer for support. For more information on upgrading your BIOS go to www.ami.com/bios.
Note: The BIOS manufacturer in most cases is not the manufacturer of your motherboard.

BIOS String info:
An AMIBIOS ID String Was Detected:

	63-0100-001131-00101111-072006-P4M800+
	 -        ----          ------ ------
	 |         |              |       |  
	 |         |              |       Chipset/BIOS Info
	 |         |              BIOS Build Date
	 |         Manufacturer ID
	 BIOS ROM Information
AMIBIOS ROM Size: 512 KB 

BIOS Build Date: Jul 20 2006 

Motherboard Manufacturer Code Detected: 1131 - ELITGROUP 

Please Consults ELITGROUP for support

AMIBIOS Build Tag: P23G

AMIBIOS Project ID: P23G Not listed in TAG.DAT file

For more information on upgrading your BIOS go to www.ami.com/bios.

SMBIOS info:
	Manufacturer :         PCCHIPS
	Product Name :         P23G
	Version      :         1.0
	Serial Number:         00000000

```

Thanks
fewjr

---

### Post by fewjr on 2008-12-25
Bump please.

---

### Post by fewjr on 2008-12-27
bump...this is an easy one I'm sure. Come on and make me feel silly. An update actually...I have an email out to the maker of the system board to find out why their board will not recognize the amount of memory listed in the specs. Maybe its not my RAM but the board.

---

### Post by DeusEx on 2008-12-29
Hello,

Dual channel operation means the motherboard has configured itself to access memory in a more efficient way. It requires two (sets of) RAM banks to be identical, which is the case with your set.

To enable dual channel see your manufacture's manual. I don't think Ubuntu needs to know about it.

The memory types are actually the same as with non-dual channel. So the problem is somewhere else - Maybe (re-)check your system compatibility with your new RAM modules?

---

### Post by fewjr on 2008-12-29
DeusEx,
Thats what I thought. I just thought I would put the question out there. The systemboard doesn't support dual-channel, but is supposed to support 2 gigs of memory. I have emailed the manufacturer for their thoughts on the problem. They are closed until January 4th for the holidays. There aren't ant settings in the BIOS that will help me that I see.

Thanks
fewjr

---

### Post by igknighted on 2008-12-29
Does the bios see 2gb ram?  Some (even fairly modern) linux distros ship with a kernel that won't see more than 1gb ram, so if the OS doesn't see it all, but the bios does, that could be the issue.

More likely, you simply got one bad stick of ram.  I'd return that one get a new one, if the problem persists, perhaps one of your ram slots is bad.

---

### Post by fewjr on 2008-12-30
I am sorry...I didn't mention that this computer is running Windows Vista. I'm thinking of using it for Ubuntu. To answer your question, the BIOS doesn't see 2 gigs. POST reports one.

---

