---
title: "Second Monitor isn't seen."
date: 2013-02-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by S Hartwell on 2013-02-05
I obtained a second monitor this morning and noticed this old Desktop had a second VGA port. Now I've ran "multiple screens" on Ubuntu before via My laptop(and an external screen.)

Only problem is I've never even touched Ubuntu on a Desktop. After getting the WifI adapter working I just simply can't get the second monitor working.

It's running a Nividia card and I just don't know what to do. Here are some screen shots(Link form as I don't have enough posts yet!) that might help.

[http://s17.postimage.org/vzb217vyn/Screenshot_from_2013_02_05_13_55_27.png](http://s17.postimage.org/vzb217vyn/Screenshot_from_2013_02_05_13_55_27.png)

[http://s17.postimage.org/b3orpyzrj/Screenshot_from_2013_02_05_13_54_58.png](http://s17.postimage.org/b3orpyzrj/Screenshot_from_2013_02_05_13_54_58.png)

Note: The second monitor is on a VGA port that is **serperate from the working monitor**. It's located just a **little more high on the tower and to the left**.

I got this as a result from a command I believe lists connected VGA devices,etc


```
Screen 0: minimum 8 x 8, current 1280 x 1024, maximum 4096 x 4096
VGA-0 connected 1280x1024+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 338mm x 270mm
   1280x1024      60.0*+   75.0  
   1280x960       75.0  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1024x768       75.0     70.1     60.0  
   800x600        75.0     72.2     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        75.0     72.8     59.9  
DVI-I-0 disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
TV-0 disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
DVI-I-1 disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)

```

I'm assuming the VGA-0 is the working monitor.

---

### Post by S Hartwell on 2013-02-05
Does anyone have a solution? I've tried a few different articles I've found using google but to no aval.

I'm looking at my config file now. Here's the contents.

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 304.43  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-13)  Sun Aug 19 21:19:28 PDT 2012

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by S Hartwell on 2013-02-05
After a few hours of looking around it doesn't even appear to see there is a second VGA port where I mentioned I've plugged in the non functional monitor.

I guess that's considered another video card which I'd need to install drivers for? I'm confused cause I saw a second VGA port and figured it would just work...

Here is a diagram of a computer.

[http://cdn.computerhope.com/connect.jpg](http://cdn.computerhope.com/connect.jpg)

I have the normal 'video card' where the functioning monitor is plugged and a VGA port between the ps/2 port and the USB's. I'm guessing this means it's seperate from the Nvidia card and won't work...?

EDIT: It seems the one I've got the non functional screen in is the default motherboard VGA port which I suppose would explain why it's not working. So, from what I gather, I just can't have 2 monitors?

---

