---
title: "9.04 crashes regularly for no apparent reason! ASUS Laptop"
date: 2010-03-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by casvoyager on 2010-03-05
People,

   Since I installed Ubuntu 9.04 on my ASUS laptop, I can't say I have had any clear incompatibility problem, because video and sound work properly, I have been able to connect to the Internet via WiFi and applications run fine and at good speed. I never got an error message from Ubuntu about incompatibility. Even the 3D effects work OK.
   Nevertheless, I have a problem that Ubuntu itself seems not to be aware of. From time to time, no matter what applications I have open, the entire system will freeze in less than one second. No popup, sound or warning comes up. The mouse cursor still can be controlled, but even its shape (hand, pointer or clock) remains still as you move it. No window respond, no keys, nothing. If there was music playing or a radio broadcast in the background, it continues to work most of the times. I have to reboot by turning the computer off and back on. When this happens, I usually can here the hard drive doing a "click", like parking the heads of something, but not always.
   On my laptop, I also have FreeDOS installed and the computer never freezes while running FreeDOS. When it does under Ubuntu, sometimes I have nothing open. There is some tendency for this to happen more often if I am using Firefox and another application at the same time, but it does not have to be like that. It is not the screen saver, because I can see it working many times. Sometimes this can happen after an hour of having the computer working, sometimes after a minute.
   If I am doing something stable for a long period of time... for example, watching a movie, this tends not to happen, so I normally can see the whole movie without an interruption.
   Any idea of what this can be and how I can fix it?  Any particular piece of information that could be useful?  Thanks in advance

                Cas

---

### Post by Amyako on 2010-03-05
I would reccomend you to check S.M.A.R.T data of your hdd. Looks like  there presents some bad sectors, which may be unreadable.

```
sudo aptitude install smartmontools --without-recommends
```then

```
sudo smartctl /dev/sdX -A
```Also, maybe you got some errors in syslog.

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2010-03-05
You might also fix the problem by running fsck from the live CD.

---

### Post by casvoyager on 2010-03-23
Thanks, guys, but I have verified that this is NOT A HARD DRIVE PROBLEM at all!
I don't know if to feel happy or sad about it.
I rebooted with the Ubuntu CD with the idea of running fsck. I was trying to run it, but I didn't know how to tell fsck where to find my file system. In the end, I gave up, opened Firefox and started surfing the web. Everything was working fast and fine, from the CD... nothing actually installed. I hadn't even mounted any partition and then, after some 10 minutes, it froze... just like it always does!

I think I remember Unbuntu haven frozen without Firefox being running, but I am suspicious about that application anyway. Can anybody think of any other thing that could be causing the problem?

---

