---
title: "3.9 GiB Intel® Core™2 Duo CPU P8600 @ 2.40GHz × 2 running 64 bit Ubuntu"
date: 2013-04-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by njprrogers on 2013-04-01
Hi

Release 12.10 (quantal) 64-bit
Kernel Linux 3.5.0-17-generic
GNOME 3.6.0

Memory: 3.9 GiB
Processor: Intel® Core™2 Duo CPU P8600 @ 2.40GHz × 2 

I'm just installed Ubuntu for the first time as a dual boot on what was my Vista machine.

It's running very slow and I don't seem to be able identify the problem. There is plenty of disc space (I allocated 18gb initially). Memory doesn't seem to be maxing out - it's running about 50% usage and the CPU's don't seem to be under too much pressure.

Even swapping between applications with Chrome / Firefox is causing it to grind, And if I am doing anything disc intensive like copying out files across my home network it's greying out all the time.

I'd appreciate any advice you might have! Should I move to 32 bit? Any other options?

Cheers

Nick

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-04-01
I have two systems a laptop with only 1.5GB RAM and desktop with 4GB of RAM.
 Laptop: Intel(R) Core(TM)2 CPU T5500 @ 1.66GHz
Desktop: Intel(R) Core(TM)2 CPU 6600

The laptop technically does not have enough RAM for 64bit but it works and with my normal use only occasionally uses swap.

So issue is not 64bit. But issue could be what video and are you running Unity which needs a high end video system to run well. I use gnome-panel or fallback which is just 2d and that needs less system but works very well with both my sytems. Laptop has old Intel chip and Desktop has nVidia 9600GT.

What video?
      
 sudo lshw -c display
    /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p

Run this, on my system it says Unity supported and I have run Unity for a short time trying to learn it, before converting back to menus with gnome-panel.

And 50% use is high. On my system that means one processor is maxed out.
from terminal run top to see what is running (q to exit)
top

My System Monitor:

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-04-01
I'm running 12.10 64bit on my laptop. 2x AMD Turion, 2Ghz, 4GB. applications are a bit slow to start up compared to say 10.10, but it is quite usable.
I read somewhere that 13.04 was a bit quicker so I'm going to wait until it is released and try that.
Sorry I cannot help you with your problem, it should work with your hardware.

---

