---
title: "[12.10] Wireless is disabled by hardware switch"
date: 2012-10-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by fueller72 on 2012-10-28
Hi all,
I've searched many threads but cannot get my wireless working.

I have a Lenovo x61t and for a while my wireles hasn't been working anymore, since "wireless is disabled by hardware switch" in network manager.
To sort this after various tries I bought a USB WLan stick but surprisingly it gave the same message first.
However, after a few times shutting down and on again it suddenly was recognised and could connect to a network, but it wouldn't keep the connection for long and then turn into 'wireless not available'.
So then, I thought, upgrading onto Ubuntu 12.10 might help, but now it just says 'wireless is disabled by hardware switch' again.
```
rfkill list all
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: yes
1: phy1: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: no
```

This is how it looks, *rfkill unblock all * won't change that.

The fn-wireless switch of the laptop doesn't change anything either, and neither does the little light which tells you that wireless is switched on or off glow at all.

Would be so thankful to come to an end with this issue!

---

### Post by Abhinav Kumar on 2012-10-28
Are you having ubuntu as your only OS or you are using it alongside some other OS such as Windows. May be you had disabled wireless in other OS.
If you are also having Windows, boot into WIndows and start wireless there and then again boot into Ubuntu and check:)

---

### Post by westie457 on 2012-10-28
Do you have a dual booting system with Windows? And does the wireless work w/out any issues in Windows?

---

### Post by fueller72 on 2012-10-28
I have only Ubuntu as OS. By the way, when I try the openSUSE live-CD it doesn't work either...

There is actually more to report that I forgot to mention:

When I opened the laptop to check the hardware I found that the green WLan light of the Lenovo Laptop glows when the WLan card is unscrewed but in the slot(meaning it sticks somehow skew in the slot), however, then Ubuntu doesn't find card at all. Of course there could be something like a defective contact messing the functioning of the card up, but that wouldn't explain why the same problem with the USB WLan occurs, does it?

Thanks for the quick responses though :-) I may actually try to put Windows on here and see what it says, it may tell me whether the hardware or software or BIOS is the problem.

Any further suggestions?

---

### Post by westie457 on 2012-10-28
> **fueller72 said:**
> I have only Ubuntu as OS. By the way, when I try the openSUSE live-CD it doesn't work either...

There is actually more to report that I forgot to mention:

When I opened the laptop to check the hardware I found that the green WLan light of the Lenovo Laptop glows when the WLan card is unscrewed but in the slot(meaning it sticks somehow skew in the slot), however, then Ubuntu doesn't find card at all. Of course there could be something like a defective contact messing the functioning of the card up, but that wouldn't explain why the same problem with the USB WLan occurs, does it?

Thanks for the quick responses though :-) I may actually try to put Windows on here and see what it says, it may tell me whether the hardware or software or BIOS is the problem.

Any further suggestions?

Actually on a laptop the on board chip must be switched on for a USB wifi dongle to work.

Have you tried to reset the BIOS to factory defaults or looked in the BIOS to see if there is an option to turn the wifi on?

---

### Post by fueller72 on 2012-10-28
> Actually on a laptop the on board chip must be switched on for a USB wifi dongle to work.
That's bad news because it means that the USB won't work if the PCI card is somewhat broken, doesn't it?

I will check what happens if I take out the PCI card and use the dongle only, but have no time for that now.

Yes I've set the BIOS settings back to default, no changes. I also can't find any relevant setting options in the BIOS menu.

EDIT: Do you mean onboard WLan chip, or the PCI-card? I have a removable PCI-card and that is not called onboard then, is it?

---

### Post by fueller72 on 2012-10-28
> **westie457 said:**
> Actually on a laptop the on board chip must be switched on for a USB wifi dongle to work.

Without the PCI card the system recognises the dongle and detects wireless networks, but connecting does not work. Key is correct but it just keeps trying and literally is 'connecting' but not 'connected'.
I will try another network tomorrow.
So the problem changed its topic, now it is about getting a Digitus dongle running under Ubuntu :-/

---

### Post by weskerfox on 2012-11-13
hey guys, whats up? :guitar: I'm in Rock mode :D
I'm having this problem too, I can't connect with wirless, so I had to connect with wired.
it says Wirless is disabled by hardware switch, however when I disable Airplane mode by make it (OFF), it goes back to (ON) again and again
I tried to turn the Wirless switch ON by FN+F8, I use to do it in Windows7, but it doesn't work here on Ubuntu 12.10
I use Toshiba Satelitte L755,
i'll appreciate any kind of Help :)
[IMG]http://i48.tinypic.com/1o6ql4.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by FemiVeys on 2012-11-20
I had the same problem all of a sudden.
I have tried to reboot into Windows. When booring with my HW switch on, my led was not on and so also not my wireless card. I had to switch off and then on again. Then it worked.
But back in Ubuntu no luck.

But I found a solution. This worked for me:
```
sudo rfkill unblock all
```

I assume something was set off internally in the wireless network card. Windows was able to unset it, while Ubuntu not. So brabably this is a bug that should be resolved.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-11-21
> **FemiVeys said:**
> I had the same problem all of a sudden.
Would be interesting and perhaps helpful too if you can post the following outputs -
```
uname -mr
lsb_release -d
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
lsmod
```
Plus laptop brand/model.

I know you have your problem solved, but this may help us identifying future problems of similar nature.

Thanks!

---

### Post by weskerfox on 2012-11-25
> **FemiVeys said:**
> I had the same problem all of a sudden.
I have tried to reboot into Windows. When booring with my HW switch on, my led was not on and so also not my wireless card. I had to switch off and then on again. Then it worked.


Indeed, it works, (go back to windows and make sure that the wireless switch is ON).
but it comes too late, I already installed Pinguy OS 12.4  :biggrin:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
guys any one have exp in pinguy OS 12.4 ?  cause I feel kind a lost in middle of pinguy OS
just PV me :?:

---

### Post by nerdcommander on 2012-12-18
I had this same problem, suddenly, on my Lenovo T420S (running Ubuntu 12.10). This thread was helpful. I had the same problem with the greyed out toggles in the network panel for both wireless and bluetooth.
here is what I did after reading this thread (and another that said [SOLVED] but didn't solve it for me.
I typed (with results below):
```

rfkill list all
0: tcpacpi_bluetooth_sw: Bluetooth
          Soft Blocked: yes
          Hard Blocked: yes
1: phy0: Wireless LAN
          Soft Blocked: yes
          Hard Blocked: yes

```

no matter how many times I typed:
```
rfkill unblock all
```

I got no change. So I went back to the original error message "Wireless is disabled by hardware switch"  and searched for "lenovo t420 wireless switch" on the interwebs and found a picture of the location of the switch (right next to DVD player drawer on T420s) and I flicked it back to the "ON" position and voile, all worked.

My suggestion is to search the internet for "my laptop model wireless switch" where you replace my laptop model with the ... Well, you get the idea. At least it worked for me. Thanks to the previous posters (this is my first forum post, so excuse me if I did something wrong).

---

### Post by thebluber on 2012-12-28
I encountered the same problem after updating from 11.4 to 11.10(network configuration bug). Updating to 12.10 didn't solve the problem.
But thanks the previous posts and the helpfull ```
rfkill list all
``` comand, I remembered, that my laptop has a specific keystroke combination for de/activating wifi(Fn + the key with bearly visible wifi symbol) :KS Don't understand why it was deactivated after updating...but it was the problem.:o
It sounds silly, but sometimes the solution of a problem is simpler than expected...

---

### Post by FemiVeys on 2013-02-07
I had the problem again today. It happened when I could not connect to a network, I "Disabled wireless networks". My led turned off and the option became greyed out, making it impossible to switch it on again.
The command as stated above resolved it.

Below the requested output.

```

femi@FemiVaio:~$ uname -mr
3.5.0-23-generic x86_64

```
```

femi@FemiVaio:~$ lsb_release -d
Description:	Ubuntu 12.10

```
```

femi@FemiVaio:~$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
02:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation Centrino Advanced-N 6205 [8086:0082] (rev 34)
	Subsystem: Intel Corporation Centrino Advanced-N 6205 AGN [8086:1301]
	Kernel driver in use: iwlwifi
--
05:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller [10ec:8168] (rev 06)
	Subsystem: Sony Corporation Device [104d:907b]
	Kernel driver in use: r8169

```
```

femi@FemiVaio:~$ lsmod
Module                  Size  Used by
radeon                895730  0 
ttm                    83596  1 radeon
pci_stub               12623  1 
vboxpci                23195  0 
vboxnetadp             25671  0 
vboxnetflt             23480  0 
vboxdrv               287190  3 vboxpci,vboxnetadp,vboxnetflt
rfcomm                 46620  12 
bnep                   18141  2 
parport_pc             32689  0 
ppdev                  17074  0 
binfmt_misc            17501  1 
snd_hda_codec_hdmi     32049  1 
snd_hda_codec_realtek    78048  1 
tpm_infineon           17537  0 
coretemp               13401  0 
arc4                   12530  2 
kvm                   414071  0 
ghash_clmulni_intel    13221  0 
aesni_intel            51038  0 
cryptd                 20404  2 ghash_clmulni_intel,aesni_intel
aes_x86_64             17256  1 aesni_intel
uvcvideo               76750  0 
videobuf2_core         32852  1 uvcvideo
videodev              120310  2 uvcvideo,videobuf2_core
videobuf2_vmalloc      12861  1 uvcvideo
videobuf2_memops       13405  1 videobuf2_vmalloc
btusb                  22475  0 
bluetooth             209249  22 rfcomm,bnep,btusb
snd_hda_intel          33492  3 
snd_hda_codec         134213  3 snd_hda_codec_hdmi,snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_intel
snd_hwdep              17699  1 snd_hda_codec
snd_pcm                96668  3 snd_hda_codec_hdmi,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec
microcode              22804  0 
snd_seq_midi           13325  0 
snd_rawmidi            30513  1 snd_seq_midi
snd_seq_midi_event     14900  1 snd_seq_midi
snd_seq                61555  2 snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
snd_timer              29426  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
snd_seq_device         14498  3 snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
iwlwifi               386874  0 
mac80211              539958  1 iwlwifi
snd                    78921  16 snd_hda_codec_hdmi,snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_hwdep,snd_pcm,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
cfg80211              206797  2 iwlwifi,mac80211
psmouse                95595  0 
serio_raw              13216  0 
rts_pstor             433850  0 
lpc_ich                17062  0 
sony_laptop            54040  0 
tpm_tis                18681  0 
soundcore              15048  1 snd
snd_page_alloc         18485  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm
mei                    40691  0 
mac_hid                13206  0 
i915                  520621  4 
drm_kms_helper         49113  2 radeon,i915
drm                   288721  7 radeon,ttm,i915,drm_kms_helper
i2c_algo_bit           13414  2 radeon,i915
video                  19336  1 i915
lp                     17760  0 
parport                46346  3 parport_pc,ppdev,lp
r8169                  61651  0 

```

---

