---
title: "16.04 mSATA to SATA adapter - blank BIOS splash, blank until gui login"
date: 2017-01-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-01-04
I have a Crucial M550 512 GB mSATA SSD card which previously had 64-bit 14.04 on it in a laptop that no longer even powers up. So I got a SYBA 2.5-Inch SATA to mSATA SSD Adapter (SD-ADA40077) [https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00G8772CS/ref=cm_cr_ryp_prd_ttl_sol_0](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00G8772CS/ref=cm_cr_ryp_prd_ttl_sol_0) intending to use it in my desktop PC. That booted and worked fine in a couple of different laptops including an old Toshiba from 2006 with Intel graphics. But it was not recognized at all in a SATA drive caddy connected by USB or eSATA (caddy was recognized, but nothing on it, works for hard drives). The adapter also has a mini-B USB 2.0 port on it, but that is not recognized at all (nothing in dmesg or lsusb) even using a cable with dual USB plugs. Maybe that is because the mSATA is 3.3v 1.7a. and the adapter does not convert 5v from USB or the drive caddy (its power supply has 12v and 5v).

Last night I used a laptop live/install to --security-erase it (cleared to like new) and installed 64-bit Ubuntu 16.04.1 on an msdos primary partition (no swap), it booted fine on the old laptop and I did all updates.

My desktop PC is a 7 year old Dell XPS 8100 (no UEFI) with 1 TB hd sda (Win7/14.04) & old Intel 80 GB SSD sdb (12.04 backup system/grub boot last saved). When I added the mSATA/SATA adapter as sdc it booted fine with nouveau driver, I did sudo update-grub, and used Additional Drivers to install nvidia-375 (for GTX 1060) and Intel microcode, rebooted and that all works fine.

However, the problem is that my computer no longer displayed the BIOS splash screen or grub menu or plymouth. Video appeared to be on, but totally blank from boot until 16.04 gui login screen (desktop works fine). I swapped the mSATA adapter to sdb to use its grub, leaving 80 GB SSD removed, and same thing, blank until 16.04 gui login. So somehow 16.04 or the mSATA adapter is leaving my graphics (or BIOS) in an unusual state that it does not work with standard graphics during boot. Thinking it might be some issue with the new GTX 1060, I reinstalled my GTX 750 Ti and same thing. It is not the nvidia-375 driver per se, because I also use that driver in 14.04 from my hard drive.

And if I remove the mSATA adapter, switching back to 1 TB sda, 80 GB SSD sdb (boot) and cold boot, there is no graphics at all period. After I hear the gui login sound I have to blindly type in my password, wait until I think desktop is up, Ctrl+Alt+T to terminal and blindly type: sudo shutdown -h now, at which point it shuts down. Then I can reboot normally with BIOS splash screen and grub menu showing. And I can put the mSATA drive back in the old laptop, purge nvidia*, sudo update-grub, its BIOS splash and grub menu work fine during warm or cold reboots.

Is it possible that 16.04 leaves any graphics or BIOS on my desktop in an unusual state, that persists such that default graphics from BIOS does not work even after totally powering down (unplugging) the computer and swapping graphics cards or removing the mSATA/SATA adapter?

---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-01-05
In further testing it appears that the BIOS on my Dell PC is somewhat incompatible with 64-bit Ubuntu 16.04.1. Booting after running 16.04.1 gives me a blank (totally black) screen until gui login prompt and desktop works fine. But without being able to see BIOS or grub menu I cannot switch boot drive or see how to select anything from grub menu. AMI BIOS on the Dell is A05 07/08/2010 (7 yrs old). Same drives with 16.04.1 have no issues on Toshiba laptop with Phoenix 6.0 BIOS from 2006 (11 yrs old).

Primary (sda) 1 TB WD hard drive Win7/14.04.1 (updated), std Windows mbr w/grub2 on sda4 (for emergencies by switching boot flag). Secondary (sdb) 80 GB Intel SSD was used for grub2 boot originally 11.10 upgraded to 12.04. I originally used the Toshiba laptop to initially install Ubuntu 11 something to the 80 GB SSD and for installing all systems below. I used hdparm's --security-erase to totally clear SSD's between installations.

With 16.04.1 installed on mSATA/SATA adapter as sdb, once 16.04.1 was booted, screen blank on startup until gui login. With 16.04.1 on 80 GB SSD as sdb, same thing, subsequent boots, blank until gui login. After removing either drive, I still got blank screen booting the 1 TB drive only until after Ubuntu or Win7 used graphics, then on next reboot I could see BIOS splash and grub menu.

Used Toshiba laptop again to erase 16.04.1 and install 64-bit 14.04.5 to mSATA/SATA. Other than a little fiddling to get nvidia-370 drivers installed when nouveau did not work with my new GTX 1060, that is working fine as sdb, whether I boot from grub on it or grub on sda4.

So while I have not figured out what the problem is between 16.04.1 and my PC (BIOS?), at least I can use my 512 GB mSATA SSD card in my PC for 14.04.5.

PS: I tried 16.10 and that works fine on either drive with my 7 year old Dell PC with legacy BIOS. So I don't know what causes 16.04.1 to blank out my BIOS splash screen and grub menu (until gui login), but my final solution is to bypass that, and I am up and running with 16.10 on the mSATA/SATA adapter as sdb.

---

