---
title: "Screen resolution won't go beyond 800x600 and I do NOT have an NVidia card!"
date: 2008-07-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by fredbird67 on 2008-07-21
I've searched high and low for an answer to this problem ever since Hardy came out.  I've tried EVERYTHING in my attempt to get a screen resolution higher than 800 x 600 (for the record, I like 1024 x 768 ).  I've seen quite a few solutions on here, but almost every one of them I have ever run across somehow involves that "NVidia Settings" program or whatever it's called.

I want to make one thing perfectly clear:  I DO NOT HAVE AN NVIDIA CARD!!!

Anytime I've seen that in someone's solution, I have, at times, found myself literally screaming, with maybe an occasional profanity thrown in, at the top of my lungs "I DO NOT HAVE AN NVIDIA CARD!!!!!!!"  THAT is how frustrating this stupid screen resolution issue has been for me, with no solution whatsoever in sight.

Also, someone correct me if I'm wrong, but it's my understanding that you have to have an NVidia card before the NVidia Settings program or whatever it's called will work, right?

As for an NVidia card, it's not for lack of trying on my part, either.  I bought a used GeForce 6200 here while back -- and then found when I tried to install it that my motherboard doesn't have the PCI-Express slot that the card requires, meaning I wasted $15 on that card.  GRRRRRRR!!!!!!!!!!

Anyways, as for my hardware, I have a Silicon Integrated Systems 630 board and I'm using the supplied on-board video, which neither Ubuntu or Linux Mint appear to not be properly recognizing.  Ubuntu's Gutsy Gibbon and Mint's Daryna releases recognized it just fine, albeit wanting to give me a 1280 x 1024 screen resolution, which I adjusted in the xorg.conf file, which I have tried before in Hardy and Elyssa -- and it screwed up the system EVEN FURTHER!!!

Now, if you can follow all that and know of a solution, I really want to hear from you in the worst possible way.  If nothing at all works, I will be forced to dump Ubuntu and anything based on it entirely, because I've had it up to HERE with this screen resolution nonsense, which there is NO EXCUSE FOR!!!

Pardon me if it sounds like I'm mad, because...well, I am, especially when you consider that the previous versions of Ubuntu and Mint gave me a 1280 x 1024 screen resolution, which is more than what I wanted, but at least I could work with that to make it 1024 x 768, and at least they were more cooperative than Hardy and Elyssa, which is NONSENSE!!!

Also, if it's any help, here's the contents of my xorg.conf file (this is the default xorg.conf file in Linux Mint Elyssa XFCE edition):

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"vesa"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

Please forgive me for my temper-tantrum above.  This is just simply frustrating as all get-out.  There.  Now, any ideas?

---

### Post by Dark_Stang on 2008-07-22
SiS graphics cards suck under Linux. Your system should have the sis driver installed by default. You may want to print out these directions as the first thing I'm going to have you do is kill your graphical interface.

Step 1. Press Ctrl+Alt+F1 to go to command line and login.
Step 2. Run the next command to shut down X
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```
Step 3. Run this next command to reconfigure X
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
Step 4. Follow through the menus, do not let it autodetect your monitor or graphics card. When it asks you for your driver, select "SiS" instead of vesa.
Step 5. Keep going through the menus until it asks about your screen. Choose the medium option. Select the closest description to your screen then select your desired resolution. When it asks about color depth choose 16 bit.
Step 6. After you're done run the next command to get X back up.
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```
Step 7. If, for whatever reason, it doesn't work for you. Go through these steps again and reset everything to the way it was before.

---

### Post by fredbird67 on 2008-07-22
Dark_Stang, thanks for your help.

Unfortunately, I've now run into another problem.  When I tried to print out your suggestions, they wouldn't print, even though Mint recognized my printer, but it kept spitting out a bunch of blank pages.  In light of this, I'm dumping Ubuntu and anything based on it completely, because I feel like Ubuntu has pulled a Vista on me.

My printer is one I bought used about a month ago, an HP K80.  It works just fine with Gutsy Gibbon -- why not Hardy Heron?  SHAME on Ubuntu for releasing such a piece of crap.  DOUBLE-SHAME on them for having such a piece of crap being declared as an LTS release.  Mark Shuttleworth should be TARRED and FEATHERED.

On my main hard drive, I've currently got Ubuntu Gutsy.  Even though it runs just fine, I'm ditching it because of how badly Hardy Heron SUCKS TO KINGDOM COME, and therefore, I absolutely CANNOT recommend it to anyone AT ALL.

Therefore, when I get home tonight, I'm gonna try Sabayon and see how it does.  If there's a show-stopper bug there too, I'm just gonna give up and go back to PCLinuxOS, which works perfectly with my hardware, as it prints properly AND gives me my preferred 1024 x 768 screen resolution.

My only problem with PCLinuxOS, though, is that it uses KDE for its desktop.  I used to be a KDE enthusiast until they came out with KDE4 last winter.  I tried a live CD of it once and found it a real pain to use, which made a GNOME and XFCE guy out of me real quick.

Speaking of, I tried PCLOS's GNOME edition, and everything worked on it OK except for printing.  It said it couldn't download CUPS, of all things!  I also tried SAM, which is based on PCLinuxOS and uses the XFCE desktop interface.  SAM worked perfectly on the live CD, but after installation, Firefox kept crashing anytime I visited a webpage with Flash, plus I had no sound at all.

Oh well, at least the most recent version of PCLinuxOS has KDE 3.5.9, which I liked -- it's just that I hate it that the KDE team didn't think that that basic design was worth keeping, because I liked it and then they ditched it.  Hopefully KDE will have gotten the bugs worked out of 4.0 if PCLOS's next release uses KDE4.

Overall, given how I feel BETRAYED by Ubuntu, I guess desktop environment preferences are the least of my worries right now, so if Sabayon doesn't work out for me (it comes with KDE, GNOME, XFCE, Enlightenment and Fluxbox), I guess it'll be hello PCLOS -- even if it has KDE.  Although, of course, I could experiment with it and try to make my own XFCE distro out of it...

In any event, good bye and good riddance, Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Dark_Stang on 2008-07-22
Uhm... dude. If you find something you like that works well with your hardware, why bother trying to hack something else into working. It just doesn't make sense to go through all the trouble. Use what you're comfortable with and what works best for you. 

I work in the tech industry (i probably will all my life) and I have never recommended linux to any of my customers who haven't heard of it first. Why? Because the general public wants Windows. Not just any version of windows, but the version of Windows that's just becomming outdated. They feel betrayed when a new OS comes out because they don't think it's stable, or they don't like the way it looks (even if it's nearly f*ck*ng identical), or it won't work with their 9,000 year old printer and photoshop 2.

In other words, just as I don't recommend people upgrading to Vista on an XP machine. I tend not to recommend upgrading to new releases of distrobutions unless you know it's all going to work well for you. There's nothing wrong with running Gusty. Hell, there are people that still run dapper and edgy. Why not? As long as your OS can support new hardware and software, keep going with it.

Oh... and stop complaining about things you get for free... it makes you look really bad...

---

### Post by fredbird67 on 2008-07-22
Dark_Stang, what I'm worried about is that the stuff that has worked really well for me will eventually cease to be available.  After all, Ubuntu only makes the most recent version available for download from their site, although I have also noticed that you can use Google to find up to the three most recent versions, but I know plenty of people who wouldn't have the slightest clue how to find them (no joke).

With the way Hardy won't give me my preferred screen resolution or work with my printer, I find it utterly NONSENSICAL in light of that just how Ubuntu seems to get all the attention in the Linux world -- because to me, Hardy Heron is a piece of...well, to avoid profanity, I'll just say you get the idea.

Needless to say, I'm not happy with the KDE team, either, for doing a radical redesign on KDE4, but at least PCLOS hasn't gone to using KDE4 yet (thankfully!), but I'm sure they will sooner or later.  I tried KDE4 once and found it frustrating to use, not to mention, I despise their attempt to copy the look of Vista because I do NOT want my desktop looking like the OS equivalent of the Edsel.

Basically, I'm a perfectionist and I'll admit it, because I want to be running something that's as up-to-date as possible and works without having to deal with a lot of B.S. that I can recommend to others.  You see, I want to be able to promote Linux to others and see to it that others have the smoothest experience possible with it, you know what I mean?

---

