---
title: "if badblocks doesn't report bad sectors is the drive physically ok?"
date: 2017-12-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by david503 on 2017-12-09
I was running ubuntu 16.04 and apparently the filesystem (ext4) went nuts and now it won't (fully) boot. It's also claiming that 250 gig are free but I know that's not true, it was much less. So I went back to the windows 10 drive.  

Anyway- I booted to a knoppix disc and ran badblocks.  It didn't report any bad sectors, so am I safe to assume the drive is physically ok, and that I can just reinstall ubuntu on it?  In other words, the filesystem went nuts but the drive is physically still ok?

(I asked here before about "journaling" the ext4 and trying to roll back... It don't do much, so I gave up. I figured screw it, I'll just reinstall.)

Thanks guys,

d

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2017-12-09
Modern hard disks all have some kind of defect management. If badblocks can see something, it's usually already very, very bad. A better indicator of what's going on with a hdd are the reports generated by smartctl from the package smartmontools which questions the hard disk's Self-Monitoring, Analysing and Reporting Technology for data. An Article describing the basics of the smartmontools can be found on the [linuxjournal website]("http://www.linuxjournal.com/magazine/monitoring-hard-disks-smart?page=0,2").

Holger

---

### Post by david503 on 2018-01-31
Thanks it was surprisingly easier than I though it'd be.

I did smartctl -t long /dev/sda

Also these two commands were involved but I can't remember how:

smartctl -a /dev/sda
smartctl -X /dev/sda

---

