---
title: "11.04 Resolution issue"
date: 2012-02-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by FLCL on 2012-02-13
Laptop: Sony Vaio VPCEB32FM
Max resolution: 1366x768

I recently installed 11.04 and ever since then the resolution has been messed up. I have it set to the max resolution of 1366x768, however, it looks as though it's at 640x480. Everything is up in my face and I can't even see complete windows. 

Ex. If I try to browser for a file in an "open file" box, I can only see about 60% and the other 40% is off the screen. Also the window fills nearly the entire screen even shrunk to the smallest size.

I've tried resetting it but no luck. I didnt have this issue with 10.10 though

Any suggestions on how to go about trying to fix this?

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2012-02-13
Do you have the proprietary video drivers installed?

---

### Post by FLCL on 2012-02-14
No proprietary drivers are installed
I tried to reconfigure a new xorg.conf based on the hardware but that didnt fix it either. Ill try generic as well

**Edit** I created a new user to test it out on that one and sure it enough it displays correctly. So the resolution issue is limited to this account. Any ideas as to why/how to resolve without just deleting the user?

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2012-02-18
i think the only thing you can do is delete the affected user account.

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2012-02-18
Try restarting the computer and choosing a "recovery mode" kernel  from the Grub boot menu.  This should give you an option to re-generate your video configuration.  If you don't get a Grub boot menu, try holding down the Shift key when you are restarting.

---

