---
title: "U820 and 10.10"
date: 2010-11-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by raygeeknyc on 2010-11-28
Hi all
 I've just recommissioned and hope to rehabilitate a Fujitsu U820 - I installed 10.10 from a live USB, did all of the updates and while most things are working out of the box, there are a couple of immediate show-stoppers that I'd appreciate any and all help with:

1) Sound loop - Every sound at startup - the Initial "bonk" at the login screen, key clicks from typing in my password and the subsequent welcome tune - all loop, endlessly.

2) Possibly related to #1 - Firefox crashes if I visit a flash site with sound.

3) While the touchscreen is working, calibration is off: the cursor doesn't make it to the top edge and it's off by an increasing amount as I approach the edges.

Any advice?  I've seen similar problems to #1 and 2 mentioned for earlier releases but any instructions I found were outdated for this release.

---Raymond

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2010-11-28
do you use 32-bit or 64-bit? flash is just bad on 64-bit.

---

### Post by raygeeknyc on 2010-11-28
[INDENT][/INDENT]Maybe so, but I think that the underlying problem is a bit lower level than a particular Flash version (as the startup sounds looping indicate)

Sadly the only way I know to determine the 32/64 bit question isn't being very useful - the Adobe page that shows this only reports:
Your Player Version: LNX
(as opposed to a multi-part ID ending in 32 or 64 as I have seen before)

---

### Post by raygeeknyc on 2010-11-30
after some research and tweaking I still have the initial at the login screen looping but once I enter my password and login all. sound stops (ie I never hear the welcome tune)

[B]What I've done
[/B]

I installed alsamixer:
```
sudo aptitude update; sudo aptitude install gnome-alsamixer

```

Heres some relevant module options that I added:
```
options snd-hda-intel model=ALC269 probe_mask=1

```

and here are seemingly relevant messages from dmesg - these were present before and remain in place after the module options above were added:
```
[   25.196019] hda-intel: azx_get_response timeout, switching to polling m
ode: last cmd=0x000f0001
[   25.235287] hda_codec: ALC269: SKU not ready 0x90970130
[   25.235434] hda_codec: ALC269: BIOS auto-probing.

```

anyone have any ideas?

TIA
---Raymond

---

### Post by raygeeknyc on 2010-11-30
> **raygeeknyc said:**
> after some research and tweaking I still have the initial at the login screen looping but once I enter my password and login all. sound stops (ie I never hear the welcome tune)


correction - I forgot that I had turned my sound theme to no sounds, when I switch the theme back to Ubuntu I hear the start of the welcome tune still looping  :(

---

### Post by raygeeknyc on 2010-12-04
Some more debugging and relevant info
 - The length of the sound loop is 2 seconds - the first two seconds of the welcome tune loop
 - It was thought that it could be a problem in the driver, but ```
killall pulseaudio
``` stops the loop so it's not likely to be the driver that's looping
  + So I uninstalled pulseaudio and rebooted
  + well - the loop is actually worse now, it's faster (sped up sound) and it's stuck on the initial "bonk" sound from the login window
 - So I reinstalled pulseaudio and rebooted
  +Now there's just a loop on the initial login bonk
  + Movie Player and the Flash plugin in my browser don't produce any sound
 - So I decided to try an alernative and installed esound, remove pulseaudio and rebooted
  + No good, back to the fast loop
 - OK time to take a break

---

### Post by raygeeknyc on 2010-12-19
SCORE!!!


Solved by the following post:

[http://katastrophos.net/andre/blog/2010/10/14/installing-ubuntu-10-10-maverick-meerkat-on-fujitsu-u820-u2010-u2020/](http://katastrophos.net/andre/blog/2010/10/14/installing-ubuntu-10-10-maverick-meerkat-on-fujitsu-u820-u2010-u2020/)

---

