---
title: "10.04 wireless drivers"
date: 2010-04-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by docjones2 on 2010-04-25
I hate 10.04 and all of its nonsense bullshit, let's not get into that right here.

I have 8.04, I'm happy as hell with it except for one problem, it doesn't have the wireless drivers I need.  Linux never ceases to impress, so I'm sure there's a way to pick and choose which packages from 10.04 I like.  If not, I'm sure there is another easy solution.

I've been through this wireless driver problem a million times.  I know the drivers exist, I know they exist in easy convenient packages.  I do not want to go through command line games or compile obscure source codes.  These packages exist and I want to use them.  Can anyone advise me?

Thank you.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-04-25
If you really want help, you will have to give a great deal more information about your computer, and your wireless adapter in particular, or there is nothing anyone can do.

If you don't know what wireless chipset is in the machine run ```
sudo lshw -C network
``` in terminal, and post the output back here.

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-04-25
> **docjones2 said:**
> I've been through this wireless driver problem a million times.

Slow learner. ;)

Have you tried Hardware Drivers ?

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2010-04-25
I am not for sure if I am understanding you correctly or not, but it sounds like you want to have the wireless drivers from 10.04 installed into 8.04.  Is that correct?

If that is the case, I am not for sure if it is possible to do it easily without the command line and compiling source.  The issue is that the "wireless drivers" are actually kernel modules.  It is possible to get updated wireless drivers to use in 8.04, but as far as I know, those updated wireless drivers are not pre-built for the 8.04 kernel.  You would not be able to grab them from the 10.04 and use them in 8.04 because the drivers would be rejected by the 8.04 kernel.

8.04 brought in newer wireless drivers for the Intel and Broadcom cards so there were a lot of things that had to be done to help make those cards work.  In 10.04 it works much better because of all the improvements made to those drivers along with the network software and the installer.  However, 10.04 also brings in a lot of changes that previous versions did not have (window decorations and a new X.org server that changes how some of our hardware is configured along with ATI video driver changes).

It might be easier to do as ajgreeny suggested and provide your lshw -C network results.  It will help us see if there is something different that we can try.  If you do have a Broadcom card, please also supply the results of:
```
lspci -nn
```There some 4312 cards that have the same revision number, but have a different chipset so lspci will help us see which one you have.

---

