---
title: "11.04: sound stops working after a while."
date: 2011-05-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by negora on 2011-05-17
Hi there:

I'm using a fresh install of Ubuntu 11.04. **Sound works fine** but it stops working after a while. For example, I boot my computer, work with it for hours, keep it running at night and, the next morning, there's no sound at all.

I've checked the alsamixer levels and everything seems to be right. Even closing the session, deleting the PulseAudio personal files (in ~/.pulse/ and ~/.pulse-cookie/) and entering again, doesn't work.

My audio chip is, according to the command "aplay -l" output:

> card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: AD198x Analog [AD198x Analog]
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: AD198x Digital [AD198x Digital]

Taking into account that (if I'm not mistaken) PulseAudio is run per user session and not as a service, I discard that it's a problem from it.

Can you help me? Thank you.

---

### Post by chilloutmo on 2011-05-21
I have the same problem. Sometimes the sound stops working for no apparent reason, it can happen after 30 min an hour or whenever. Logging off and logging on again most often solves the problem, but that can certainly not be a viable solution. Can anybody help?

---

### Post by negora on 2011-05-22
Yes, it happens randomly in my case too. Although login off and in doesn't help. That's why I discarded a problem with PulseAudio. At least as the main or direct cause. That makes me believe that the origin of all this is in a daemon or a general process... But that's only a supposition.

This weekend I've decided to leave my computer running only with basic applications (Mozilla Thunderbird basically). If the sounds works tomorrow, then I believe that maybe an specific application is causing it or interfering in some way.

I suspected Skype, because it has been acting weird lately and because, in its options panel, states that you may let it take control over sound parameters. Do you use Skype too?

---

### Post by kostkon on 2011-05-22
> **negora said:**
> I suspected Skype, because it has been acting weird lately and because, in its options panel, states that you may let it take control over sound parameters. Do you use Skype too?
Try disabling the option *Allow Skype to automatically adjust my mixer levels* in Skype's audio preferences.

---

### Post by spoon_ on 2011-05-22
I don't have Skype, and I have this problem too.

---

### Post by WBTMagnum on 2011-05-22
hi, 

similar problem here. after a while my sound gets "scrambled". when i restart the media player, everything is fine again. 

```
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: AD198x Analog [AD198x Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: AD198x Digital [AD198x Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
```

I have now disabled skype, but the problem still exists.

---

### Post by negora on 2011-05-23
**kostkon:** I got that option already unchecked, but thanks anyway ;) .

**About my test:** I've taken my computer this morning and sound was working fine. Now it's time to check if the origin is in a certain application or maybe in the own daily usage of my computer. Maybe it hasn't failed just because I've not been using it and haven't done what triggers the error...

By the way, which kind of connection do you use? Analogue with RCA cables or digital with Toshlink cable? In my case, I use the last one. I haven't tested if analogue sound works when the digital one is failing.

---

### Post by ram130 on 2011-05-23
Same here. Putting my laptop in stand by and turn on again usually fixes it for a few more hours.

---

### Post by chromerium on 2011-05-23
Killing pulseaudio fixes it temporarily for me.

---

### Post by negora on 2011-05-24
In my case, killing PulseAudio has no effect. Indeed, I've tried to log out and in again, even with another user (which means another PulseAudio instance), but no luck.

I've tried the tip from ram130 and it has worked. Putting the device in stand by seems to "fix" it temporally.

Since there are not a conclusion, maybe we should report a bug already. Do you agree?

---

### Post by chromerium on 2011-05-24
> **negora said:**
> Since there are not a conclusion, maybe we should report a bug already. Do you agree?

Yeah, probably should. It might all be a separate bug but it kinda sounds related.

---

### Post by joelorenzo on 2011-05-24
hey guys,
i've got the same problem. i think we should go ahead and report it as a bug.

---

### Post by spoon_ on 2011-05-28
I think this issue has to do with the 32-bit flash plugin that Ubuntu insists on installing on 64-bit systems. That goddamn thing has NEVER worked right and they keep putting it back in.

Removing it and reverting to Flash 64-bit (Square) has solved the problem for me.

Edit: I take this back, the issue has returned.

---

### Post by boron93 on 2011-06-11
I started with flash x64 square from a fresh install and the problem still exists.

---

### Post by negora on 2011-06-17
Are we all using the same or similar sound chip? I'm asking this to adjust the bug report better, since I've no idea where the problem comes from.

---

### Post by negora on 2011-06-17
Hi again:

I've been looking for existing bug reports at LaunchPad (to avoid duplicates) and have found one which seems to report an error very similar to mine. It's this one: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/783682](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/783682) . I'm going to join it and try to collaborate.

In your case, make sure that your problem has the same symptoms like this one. If so, join this one. Otherwise, look for another recent bug report which matches your conditions or open a new one.

I hope that we can find the origin of all this together.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-06-18
@negora
Can you post your mainboard/bios info:
```
sudo dmidecode -t bios
sudo dmidecode -t baseboard

```

---

### Post by negora on 2011-06-18
**lidex:** Hello. I'm attaching the results to this message, as text files.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-06-18
You may want to look at a bios update. In the meantime try this using a Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
```
echo "options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-dig" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
``` **Reboot**

---

### Post by negora on 2011-06-21
**lidex:** Thanks for the help. Unfortunately it hasn't worked :/ . Yesterday I left my computer running unattended with the file "alsa-base.conf" already modified (I restarted before), but today, when I've came to use it, sound was "missing" again.

It's weird, because sound has worked like a charm with older versions of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-06-21
> **negora said:**
> I haven't tested if analogue sound works when the digital one is failing.
 
switch to analogue sound. Digital HD intel in linux = FAIL. at least for now. 
 
analog stereo duplex is the choice.
 
even with analogue you might experience sometimes sound not being there. but much more less so. 
 
i don't think you need digital audio if you don't have more than 2 speakers. 
 
also when sound dissapears is the card still shown in preferences? before in 10.04 it simply dissapered like it's not even installed.

---

### Post by negora on 2011-06-21
**mastablasta:** Hello! First of all, thanks for your answer.

I haven't had issues with digital sound in Linux/Ubuntu since much time ago (if I ever had). At least with this sound chip (AD198x Digital). I'm not sure which version of Ubuntu was the first one which I tested using the S/PDIF output, but I switched from Windows XP to Ubuntu permanently on version 9.04 or 9.10 and it already worked fine. In other words, on Ubuntu 11.04 this has meant one step backwards really.

About the need of digital sound or not, I'm using a Yamaha YSP-800 (one of that sound bars or sound projectors) which is able to decode Dolby Digital and DTS. Maybe I'm wrong about these concepts, but I wanted to take advantage of these DSPs when watching films if possible (letting the DTS signal pass-through the S/PDIF output; with MPlayer). Although this is not a typical 5.1 system (but outputs 5 independent beams), I don't think that it's the same to input a real 5.1 signal which it can adapt/transform more conveniently that a stereo one. Am I right?

When the sound disappears, the card is shown in the sound preferences panel like always. Indeed, you still can choose among all the different combinations of digital and analogue inputs and outputs.

Today, I'll test the analogue output if the digital one fails again (it will do :P ). If so, I'll have to switch to analogue temporally. In the meanwhile, I'll continue checking the status of that bug report :( .

---

### Post by esep on 2011-07-18
I am suffering from the same problem with Compaq Presario V6500 laptop. I used the laptop for a few weeks without any problems, but I think after some updates this problem came up. I am not 100% sure that this is related to the updates, maybe I didn't use the computer enough before them to see this problem occur. Using sudo alsa force-restart helps in most of the cases. If not, then reboot, why not hibernate also.

This morning I was listening to music with Clementine and surfing the web. Right after I opened a web page with flash ad, the sound was lost. Coincidence? Also, yesterday I didn't do anything special with the laptop, only used terminal and Clementine and things worked well for many hours. I have a feeling that this is connected to flash but who knows :)

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-07-18
> **esep said:**
> I am suffering from the same problem with Compaq Presario V6500 laptop. I used the laptop for a few weeks without any problems, but I think after some updates this problem came up. I am not 100% sure that this is related to the updates, maybe I didn't use the computer enough before them to see this problem occur. Using sudo alsa force-restart helps in most of the cases. If not, then reboot, why not hibernate also.

This morning I was listening to music with Clementine and surfing the web. Right after I opened a web page with flash ad, the sound was lost. Coincidence? Also, yesterday I didn't do anything special with the laptop, only used terminal and Clementine and things worked well for many hours. I have a feeling that this is connected to flash but who knows :)

Yes, probably. Flash in many instances will access alsa directly causing pulse to be locked out from the sound card.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455816](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455816)

---

### Post by esep on 2011-07-19
I tried doing the things from your link, but after those I lost my audio device completely from the operating system :)

I got my sounds back by erasing the asound.conf file and doing

sudo apt-get --purge remove linux-sound-base alsa-base alsa-utils
sudo apt-get install linux-sound-base alsa-base alsa-utils

commands. Back to square one. I tried also versions 11 beta and 10.3 of flash, and also some beta version of chrome browser but with no luck. I am even thinking about reverting back to 10.04 but I really wouldn't want to (and I got major graphics problems at least with 10.04 live cd). There's gotta be a way to fix this :D

---

### Post by esep on 2011-07-20
Once again I created asoud.conf like in the 1st message of this link [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455816](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455816) and also copied the same file to ~/.asoundrc although I don't know if this is necessary or even does anything. Anyway, it doesn't hurt(?).

Again, I lost my sound device but when I gave command
pulseaudio -D
in terminal, everything went back to normal. I added that command to startup commands and now I get sounds normally.

So far (after a few hours) I haven't had problems with flash taking over the sound. Let's see if the same problem arises later.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-07-22
> **esep said:**
> Once again I created asoud.conf like in the 1st message of this link [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455816](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455816) and also copied the same file to ~/.asoundrc although I don't know if this is necessary or even does anything. Anyway, it doesn't hurt(?).

Again, I lost my sound device but when I gave command
pulseaudio -D
in terminal, everything went back to normal. I added that command to startup commands and now I get sounds normally.

So far (after a few hours) I haven't had problems with flash taking over the sound. Let's see if the same problem arises later.

Please keep me updated.

---

### Post by esep on 2011-07-25
Audio was working fine but when I booted my computer today, I cannot see any audio device anymore in Sound Preferences menu. Maybe it was some update again.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-08-17
> **esep said:**
> Audio was working fine but when I booted my computer today, I cannot see any audio device anymore in Sound Preferences menu. Maybe it was some update again.

Sorry for the lapse, but are you still experiencing the problem?

---

### Post by ram130 on 2011-08-17
I have no more issues. They must have fixed in the latest updates.

---

### Post by Gargon0 on 2011-12-30
Hi i thought i was the only one with the same problem since august. I have a HP Pavilion dv6000... has anyone found a fix?

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-12-31
> **Gargon0 said:**
> Hi i thought i was the only one with the same problem since august. I have a HP Pavilion dv6000... has anyone found a fix?

I would suggest starting a new thread with pertinent hardware/software info as well as "what were you doing when it happened?"

---

