---
title: "9.10 Server Install Overheats CPU"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Alaydriem on 2009-11-07
[FONT=Verdana][SIZE=2]Greetings,

I have a custom built Mini ITX Machine that I use as a backup ser[/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Verdana][SIZE=2]ver for my laptop through rsync.

Decided to update the machine from 9.04 to 9.10 Server Edition today and after installing and booting into the system, the syslog went nuts about the CPU temperature, outputting something along the lines of:

```
CPU0: Temperature, throttling down CPU
```The problem preventing me from even getting into single user mode.

I went looked around in the BIOS and the saw the CPU running at 67C, ([/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Verdana][SIZE=2]Intel Celeron 430 Conroe-L 1.8GHz[/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Verdana][SIZE=2]), which I thought was a little hot but appears to be average for this CPU. Went in, cleared out what little dust had collected in the machine, and made sure all the fans were working. (Three fans on the machine, one in the power supply, one fan+heatsink on the CPU, and another on the case). All of 'em seemed to be working just fine. Thermal paste on the CPU looks good as well.

After trying to boot it several more times, the machine shut down and went into an endless power on power off loop, not even booting to the motherboard logo.

I'm looking for any suggestions as to what may be the cause of this, as the machine itself is less than 6 months old. I'd been using the machine before updating to retrieve a older copy of a rather large file without any problem whatsoever.

Thank you


[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by thaikerman on 2009-11-08
This also happened to me. However I am running the Desktop version so it seems to be that Karmic over-throtles the CPU. I have a dual boot Windows 7/Ubuntu setup and the CPU overheats with ubuntu but does not with Windows 7 nor XP or Vista, or Jaunty (I tried them just to check if it was my mobo or thermal solution) so there must be something with the heat control. any suggestions?

---

### Post by LeChacal on 2009-11-10
There is a know bug to do with the hardware sensors in the 2.6.31 kernel, and that is what it sounds like is effect your server. The problem is more associated with false reading on lm_sensors and the like but it has been thought that what you are experiencing could happen. Read these threads but I would try setting the GRUB perimeter to lax.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=871001](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=871001)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1315183&highlight=cpu+fan](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1315183&highlight=cpu+fan)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/418246](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/418246)

I was having a problem with the fan on my CPU running faster than normal and reving when ever I did anything and setting GRUB to lax fixed that. I have an Asus motherboard that is know to have problems with bad readings. Yours might as well. I thought I would share since I found your thread while looking for the answer to my problem.

---

