---
title: "12.04 dell latitude xt"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by supafly on 2012-04-28
Dear community, I wish to thank you in advance for the support!
I have just started using this wonderful os and believe that it will be a great innovation :)
Unfortunately I am rather illiterate and have an issue.
My laptop is a dell latitude xt. An old, broken latitude xt...
It is actually working all fine, but the specific issue is that the touch hardware interface (this laptop is a convertible tablet, with a pen and also a finger input capability) is broken.
So, it works perfectly with the integrated trackpad, the pen, but the touch interface is so noisy that it keeps on moving the pointer at random and also clicks.
How did I solve this issue with Windows? Easy, I disabled the touch option in the control panel. I don't miss the function at all also because (unlike android for example) Windows is not designed for touch so the experience is rather poor anyway (the laptop is what, 6 years old in design now? the ipad didn't even exist back then...).
But, as I am illiterate, I don't know how to disable this function in Ubuntu, also because there is no specific control panel available for this particular input device...
Could you please help me and guide me into effectively disabling, uninstalling the touch interface? I am very willing to give up also the pen interface if needed because I do use this laptop as if it were just a conventional, no frills laptop. Screen, keyboard and trackpad, that's all.
I believe that the supplier for this dell product was Wacom.
Thank you very much for the understanding and support!
S

---

### Post by kc1di on 2012-04-28
Welcome to Ubuntu where we are all learning all the time. 

you can go to System Setting Menu >click on mouse and touchpad icon and make changes to the touch pad there.

---

### Post by Favux on 2012-04-28
Hi supafly,

Welcome to Ubuntu forums!

The Dell XT digitizer is by N-Trig not Wacom.  However the stylus is placed on the Wacom X driver and touch is placed on the evdev X driver.  That is accomplished in xorg.conf.d by the matching of the 10-evdev.conf and the 50-wacom.conf.

You may be able to fix the "noise" of your digitizer.  Rafi Rubin, who is one of the developers of the hid-ntrig.ko (the kernel module/driver) has written a calibration program for N-Trig's.  That's calibration as in noise elimination, not coordinates.  See calib.c near the top of the [N-Trig HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1252492") in "Miscellaneous Notes".  The HOW TO also contains a lot of other set up information.  It hasn't been updated for Precise because Precise just came out and I haven't gotten feedback on it.

---

### Post by supafly on 2012-08-16
> **Favux said:**
> Hi supafly,

Welcome to Ubuntu forums!

The Dell XT digitizer is by N-Trig not Wacom.  However the stylus is placed on the Wacom X driver and touch is placed on the evdev X driver.  That is accomplished in xorg.conf.d by the matching of the 10-evdev.conf and the 50-wacom.conf.

You may be able to fix the "noise" of your digitizer.  Rafi Rubin, who is one of the developers of the hid-ntrig.ko (the kernel module/driver) has written a calibration program for N-Trig's.  That's calibration as in noise elimination, not coordinates.  See calib.c near the top of the [N-Trig HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1252492") in "Miscellaneous Notes".  The HOW TO also contains a lot of other set up information.  It hasn't been updated for Precise because Precise just came out and I haven't gotten feedback on it.
Hello Favux, thank you so much for replying! Please excuse me but meanwhile I actually changed my job and relocated to a different city.
Your answer is very interesting, and trust me I tried my best so to be able to move further on my own. But, I am completely clueless on how to install, operate, manage Ubuntu.
Would you be available so to actively guide me on a step by step attempt? Literally I don't even know how to operate a console properly (just to give you a perspective: I started with the Mac in the '90s, then switched to Win in 2000 because the interface was good enough by that time...).
Thank you either way!
S

---

### Post by supafly on 2012-08-16
Oh yes, actually, if also anyone else is willing to guide me, please just shout, I would be most grateful :)

S

---

### Post by Favux on 2012-08-22
Hope your settling into your new city and job.

Here are some references you can consult while getting oriented to linux/Ubuntu:
the pocket guide pdf:  [http://www.ubuntupocketguide.com/download_main.html](http://www.ubuntupocketguide.com/download_main.html)
the Ubuntu manual (maybe a bit more up to date):  [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-manual/](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-manual/)
a bunch of links to command line refrences:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1909108](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1909108)


As far as the XT's N-Trig digitizer goes.  Have you looked at the HOW TO for the stuff on "degausing" or calibration so the noise in the digitizer for touch is cleared up?  Followed the links to what Rafi says and the instructions for it on the Ubuntu multi-touch wiki?  Any specific questions on that?

---

