---
title: "Dual screen with Radeon X850 and fglrx?"
date: 2008-05-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by m0u53m4t on 2008-05-21
I installed ubuntu on my desktop the other day, it has a radeon X850 series graphics card with hdmi and dvi output. 

I used to run vista on here and it handled dual screen no problem.

Initially after install it just cloned the screen onto both monitors (even when I unchecked "Clone Display").

I following the onscreen instructions in 8.04 and let it install the restricted drivers (fglrx) and then rebooted. Now in the "screen resolutions" window it just says "unknown" on the monitor and wont let me drag them apart.

Any ideas?



Few things to help:

owen@owen-desktop:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI RADEON X850 XT Platinum Edition
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7412 Release


My xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

