---
title: "12.10 x64 ati proprietary drivers hd 6 series"
date: 2012-11-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by paridoth on 2012-11-24
I am trying to get the proprietary drivers for my radeon hd6850 to work but am having some problems, when I use update manager to switch to either of the two proprietary drivers, after I reboot, my computer is slow to scroll windows in nautilus or even windows on the desktop. running fglrxinfo gives me errors. I was wondering if there a a special method I am supposed to use to get the proprietary drivers working?

```
paridoth@basement-ubuntu:~$ fglrxinfo
X Error of failed request:  BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  155 (ATIFGLEXTENSION)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  66 ()
  Serial number of failed request:  13
  Current serial number in output stream:  13

```

---

### Post by kubug on 2012-12-03
I am still on 12.04, since my last attempt on getting my 6850 working in 12.10 wasn't so great. 

That being said, did you check out the wiki? [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI")

The isntructions there are pretty much complete. Make sure you remove all old fglrx drivers before installing the new ones, especially if you installed from the AMD website.

---

### Post by kubug on 2012-12-05
Hi again,

I finished installing 12.10 finally, but I had to use the drivers included in the ubuntu repos. I could not use the latest driver on the AMD website.

What I did to make it work:

Uninstall any AMD driver I had installed up to now. 

Install the kernel headers.

```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic
```

Install the driver from the Software Sources app. (Search for 'soft' in the Unity Lens). Under the Additional Drivers tab, select the 'fglrx-updates' (last one) driver.

Reboot and everything was working for me.

For good measure I also installed the VAAPI for video acceleration.

```
sudo apt-get install xvba-va-driver libva-glx1 libva-egl1 vainfo
```

Hope this helps.

---

