---
title: "9.04 on an Intel i7 processor"
date: 2009-08-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by canadianwriterman on 2009-08-12
Just bought an HP Pavilion Elite e9180f with the Intel i7-920 quad core processor and Intel X58 chipset. Of course, it came with Vista, which is alarmingly slow despite the i7 core and 9 MB of RAM. Maybe all the "freeware" on it... I don't know.

Anyway, I want to install Ubuntu 9.04 64-bit on the machine. Read a Pheronix review that mentioned issues with installing Ubuntu on the X58 chipset. Also, this is my first experience with the 64-bit version of Ubuntu.

Can anyone share their experiences with:

[LIST]
[*]i7 core
[*]X58 chipset
[*]Ubuntu 64-bit version
[*]Installing to dual boot with Vista
[/LIST]

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Deiu on 2009-08-13
It should work just fine. I have an i7-920 myself and I'm running Ubuntu 9.04 64-bit without prblems. I'm triple booting Vista/Win7/Ubuntu.

P.S. Don't worry if you only see one "windows" entry in the grub menu. It will take you to the windows boot manager, so you can chose which windows version you want to boot.

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-08-13
> **canadianwriterman said:**
> 

Can anyone share their experiences with:

[LIST]
[*]i7 core
[*]X58 chipset
[*]Ubuntu 64-bit version
[*]Installing to dual boot with Vista
[/LIST]

Thanks for your help.

Runs sweet as a nut on that. Although mine is a Dell, not HP.

---

### Post by canadianwriterman on 2009-08-13
Thanks for your comments.

I've installed it on my HP i7, taking over the whole HD. After using Vista for a few days, I was frustrated by the overall slowness and unresponsiveness. No point at all in keeping it. With Jaunty on the machine, it flies like a bird!

---

### Post by mmdmurphy on 2009-09-13
I was VERY happy with 9.04 on my HP e9180f.... As everyone else here states... BUT the latest update killed my sound. Vista works great, but ubuntu ... now all I get is a very quite sort of buz (and you have to be in a quiet room to hear it). Tried turning up the volume control, tried reconfiguring. any ideas? oh, and I found a linux audio troublshooting guide online, tried that, and it didn't help.

---

### Post by Gliderfm on 2009-10-27
Howefield If you or anyone happen to come back here. I have that same Dell box and just upgraded to RTM Win 7. What bootloader to use? I want to put Unbuntu 9.10 on a
second hard drive.
 
Using my old x86 32 bit computer to familiarize with Buntu. Same thing on that box. I have two hard drives on it. Used a modified Grub command I found on another forum.
 
Don't know if that entry would work with Win 7 and the new i7 x58 platform since Grub
should overwrite BCD. Plus new distro comes with Grub 2.
 
Anyone want to play with this and post back here a link to the grub boot command.
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-software-2/how-do-i-add-windows-xp-to-grub-boot-loader-375198/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-software-2/how-do-i-add-windows-xp-to-grub-boot-loader-375198/)
This works perfect on my old box!:D

---

