---
title: "10.04 Netbook Edition on Latitude 2100 - touchscreen"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jpmoo on 2010-05-01
Ubuntu 10.04 Netbook Edition is working like a charm on my Dell Latitude 2100. The touchscreen even works!

One question ... how can I calibrate the touchscreen? There's no utility in the System or Accessories menus that I can find.

Thanks!

---

### Post by mybunche on 2010-05-02
Wow, that is great. I also have a Dell Latitude 2100 with Ubuntu 9.04 installed out-of-the-box and I am currently trying out the Ubuntu 10.04 desktop off the USB drive at the moment. I'll try the netbook edition on another USB thumb stick and compare. I don't know which one I should choose. Everything works with the desktop 10.04, s very nicely,suspend and hibernate even. Ubuntu 10.04 looks very nice on this netbook.

Unfortunately, I can't help you with the touch screen as I don't have one. There is a touch screen driver/utility somewhere, maybe off Dells website, or a package elsewhere.

---

### Post by mybunche on 2010-05-02
Just found some other info off this wiki:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks#Dell%20Latitude%202100]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks#Dell%20Latitude%202100")

Scroll down to Dell Lattitude 2100 and it says to install idc-touch package.
I think this site applies to Ubuntu 9.04 but maybe it's the same package for 10.04.

---

### Post by jpmoo on 2010-05-02
I'd had 9.04 on this machine, and used the instructions here to install the idc-touch driver:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8775475&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8775475&postcount=5)

That worked fine, but doesn't work on 10.04. The calibration tool runs under sudo, and even saves configuration data, but it doesn't seem to have any effect. Xorg.conf does list the device after going through those instructions, so I'm not sure what's happening.

Under 9.04, the touchscreen didn't work out of the box. It does on 10.04, so maybe it doesn't need the idc-touch driver? Still, though, the calibration is only true in the center of the screen, and goes way off as you move to the edges.

---

### Post by squish.the.bug on 2010-10-19
Has anyone tried the Dell touchscreen driver under 10.10? Does it work any better? Is there a way of calibrating under 10.10?

---

### Post by ergosteur on 2010-10-29
Can't find a calibration utility in 10.10. Seems to behave the same as in 10.04, can't touch the edges of the screen.

---

### Post by Warmooz on 2010-10-29
Same problem here (Ubuntu 10.10)..
The tool "calibration" can be invoked from command line but it does not recognize any input, same thing when sudoed...

I will try to file a bug in launchpad (or find one at least)

---

