---
title: "9.04 Still over heats."
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2009-04-23
I just installed 9.04 today and I still have issues where it overheats when the CPU frequency is on anything below its maximum. My fan barely turns on at the lower frequencies and is frying my laptop. I can change the frequency with the CPU frequency scaling monitor, but the settings never stay. Whenever I reboot it defaults back to the lowest settings and starts frying again. Could someone help out so I can either keep my frequency settings or turn on my fan at the low frequency?

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2009-04-25
I am bumping this up and adding some more information to help with getting this fixed.

When the computer is set to ondemand the temperature on the very left side of my laptop sky rockets to the point where it burns your finger if you touch any of the side ports, more so on the expansion port 2. I have added a picture of what I am talking about. I have a HP dv8000z (dv8240us) with an AMD Turion64 ML-40 processor. I have been unable to determine what the exact problem is. It may be due to too high of a voltage, the fan not coming on enough etc. Either way this has been present since my starting to use Linux in general. I even had this problem when trying different versions of Fedora out. I came up with a slight workaround to keep my fan running in turn cooling the laptop, but that wasn't a fix and now in Ubuntu 9.04 that option no longer exists. I really could use some help in trying to figure out what the problem is. Also, please don't comment on cleaning out my fan etc. because this is not the problem.

[IMG]http://i14.photobucket.com/albums/a340/TrashBin/HPIM0784.jpg?t=1240696580[/IMG]

---

### Post by janmartin on 2009-04-26
Hi Brandon,

It would be extremely helpful to have the output of 
sudo lshw

(list hardware)

You probably can find a few more commands to get the fan related data.

Good luck,
Jan

---

### Post by Jerky on 2009-04-26
Overheating isn't usually caused by an operating system. The way a laptop normally works is there is a temperature sensor withing the CPU area. When it hits a certain temperature, it will adjust the fan speed accordingly. If you think your having an issue with it, look on the laptop makers website for any BIOS updates. They will frequently correct fan issues. Also make sure there isn't any dust within the fan assembly and heatsink.

Good luck and let us know.

P.S. Sorry for the dust comment. =[

---

### Post by Sub101 on 2009-04-26
I have a similar laptop, a HP DV2699ea which was running very hot and eventually caused the screen to freeze when it got too hot. Fortunately it was under an extended warranty so sent it back and the company I bought from installed a brand new motherboard.

Now it runs far far cooler. This might, of course, be nothing related to your overheating issue, but it solved it for me.

---

### Post by Jerky on 2009-04-26
> **Sub101 said:**
> I have a similar laptop, a HP DV2699ea which was running very hot and eventually caused the screen to freeze when it got too hot. Fortunately it was under an extended warranty so sent it back and the company I bought from installed a brand new motherboard.

Now it runs far far cooler. This might, of course, be nothing related to your overheating issue, but it solved it for me.

Your Right

[http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?docname=c01087277&lc=en&cc=us](http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?docname=c01087277&lc=en&cc=us)

But the 8000 series is not part of the recall =[

It seems like the same issue, but its not covered.

---

### Post by expert464 on 2009-04-26
I've had overheating problems with every version of Ubuntu including 9.04 on my Gateway MX6453 laptop. The fan will never turn on and the CPU hits 60C-62C and hovers there indefinitely. The laptop doesn't crash or overheat but it is very hot to use and it can't be good for the cpu.

I installed lm-sensors and sensors-applet and added the hardware monitor thing to my panel. It says "CPU" is 50C, "temp1" is 50C, "Core0 Temp" and "Core1 temp" are both 61C. These later two seem like the actual CPU temperature. The interesting thing to me is that when going to the sensors-applet preferences menu under the "sensors" tab, under the sensor "acpi" it only lists the label "CPU" and not "core0 temp" or "core1 temp" which are under the sensor "libsensors". Maybe Ubuntu thinks the sensor labelled "CPU" is the real cpu temperature which says 50C and thinks everything is OK. Is there a way I can assign a different sensor label to the sensor "acpi" or have it use libsensors instead? Another strange thing is that I have nothing listed under /proc/acpi/fan/ and my /proc/acpi/thermal_zones/THRM/trip_points is lacking active" state information.

---

### Post by martinbures on 2009-04-26
I am having the exact same problem with a macbook pro santa rosa.  I installed x86-64 but then decided to switch to i386.  The machine gets boiling hot when unattended with nothing loaded.  It is NOT a hardware problem - works fine x86-64, 8.10, 8.04, mac osx 10.4, 10.5

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2009-04-26
Here is the print out of lshw, but I had to chop out stuff that wasn't really needed in order to fit it in the message. I got rid of things like network, usb etc. that wouldn't pertain to the problem.
```
description: Notebook
    product: Pavilion dv8000 (ET833UA#ABA)
    vendor: Hewlett-Packard
    version: F.54
    width: 64 bits
    capabilities: smbios-2.31 dmi-2.31 vsyscall64 vsyscall32
    configuration: administrator_password=enabled boot=oem-specific chassis=notebook frontpanel_password=unknown keyboard_password=unknown power-on_password=disabled
  *-core
       description: Motherboard
       product: 309B
       vendor: Hewlett-Packard
       physical id: 0
       version: 49.63
     *-firmware
          description: BIOS
          vendor: Hewlett-Packard
          physical id: 0
          version: F.54 (02/08/2007)
          size: 103KiB
          capacity: 448KiB
          capabilities: pci pcmcia pnp upgrade shadowing cdboot bootselect int5printscreen int9keyboard int17printer int10video acpi usb agp ls120boot smartbattery
     *-cpu
          description: CPU
          product: AMD Turion(tm) 64 Mobile Technology ML-40
          vendor: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD]
          physical id: 4
          bus info: cpu@0
          version: Turion 64
          slot: U23
          size: 2200MHz
          capacity: 2200MHz
          width: 64 bits
          capabilities: fpu fpu_exception wp vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt x86-64 3dnowext 3dnow up rep_good nopl pni lahf_lm cpufreq
        *-cache
             description: L2 cache
             physical id: 5
             slot: L2 Cache
             size: 1MiB
             capacity: 1MiB
             capabilities: synchronous internal write-back
     *-memory
          description: System Memory
          physical id: c
          slot: System board or motherboard
          size: 2GiB
        *-bank:0
             description: DIMM DRAM Synchronous
             physical id: 0
             slot: JP11
             size: 1GiB
             width: 64 bits
        *-bank:1
             description: DIMM DRAM Synchronous
             physical id: 1
             slot: JP30
             size: 1GiB
             width: 64 bits
     *-pci:0
          description: Host bridge
          product: RS480 Host Bridge
          vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
          physical id: 100
          bus info: pci@0000:00:00.0
          version: 01
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 66MHz
          configuration: latency=64
        *-pci:0
             description: PCI bridge
             product: RS480 PCI Bridge
             vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
             physical id: 1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:01.0
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 66MHz
             capabilities: pci ht bus_master cap_list
           *-display UNCLAIMED
                description: VGA compatible controller
                product: Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
                vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
                physical id: 5
                bus info: pci@0000:01:05.0
                version: 00
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 66MHz
                capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
                configuration: latency=66 mingnt=8
        *-pci:1
             description: PCI bridge
             product: RS480 PCI Bridge
             vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
             physical id: 4
             bus info: pci@0000:00:04.0
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pci pm pciexpress msi ht bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=pcieport-driver
        *-serial
             description: SMBus
             product: IXP SB400 SMBus Controller
             vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
             physical id: 14
             bus info: pci@0000:00:14.0
             version: 11
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 66MHz
             capabilities: ht cap_list
             configuration: driver=piix4_smbus latency=0 module=i2c_piix4
        *-ide
             description: IDE interface
             product: IXP SB400 IDE Controller
             vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
             physical id: 14.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:14.1
             logical name: scsi0
             logical name: scsi1
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 66MHz
             capabilities: ide msi bus_master cap_list emulated
             configuration: driver=pata_atiixp latency=64 module=pata_atiixp
          *-isa
             description: ISA bridge
             product: IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge
             vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
             physical id: 14.3
             bus info: pci@0000:00:14.3
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 66MHz
             capabilities: isa bus_master
             configuration: latency=0
        *-pci:2
             description: PCI bridge
             product: IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge
             vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
             physical id: 14.4
             bus info: pci@0000:00:14.4
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 66MHz
     *-pci:1
          description: Host bridge
          product: K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
          vendor: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD]
          physical id: 101
          bus info: pci@0000:00:18.0
          version: 00
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
     *-pci:2
          description: Host bridge
          product: K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
          vendor: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD]
          physical id: 102
          bus info: pci@0000:00:18.1
          version: 00
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
     *-pci:3
          description: Host bridge
          product: K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
          vendor: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD]
          physical id: 103
          bus info: pci@0000:00:18.2
          version: 00
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
     *-pci:4
          description: Host bridge
          product: K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
          vendor: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD]
          physical id: 104
          bus info: pci@0000:00:18.3
          version: 00
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
          configuration: driver=k8temp module=k8temp
  *-battery
       physical id: 1
       slot: Left Front
```

EDIT: Forgot to mention that I have checked the HP website and it does not seem to have any newer bios versions then what I already have.

---

### Post by goetzlisa on 2009-04-27
:rolleyes:Add me to the same problem. Just installed 9.04 on my old Dell D400. Ubuntu 8.10 (my first introduction to linux) ran great, although a little slow. Was really satisfied with how fast 9.04 runs, but the laptop heats up almost immediately. I'm using gkrell to run the fans at high speed, but that eats up the battery pretty fast. Wondering how I can cool things off. 
 
Alternatively, wondering how to revert back to 8.10 easily.......
 
Keep it simple, I am a complete nubie - but I am still fairly adventurous with the terminal.

---

### Post by jvijayv on 2009-04-28
I have a Compaq Presario C700 laptop.

It was working good with the older version of ubuntu - Hardy Heron. With the latest 9.04, it seems that the laptop works fine when the battery is discharging. But when I charge it it heats up a lot. Usually the laptop heats up on charging but today the difference was noticeable. Could not touch the base of the laptop for more than a few seconds. (The laptop's fan is free of dust and particles.)

The heat was probably 2-3 times more than usual. Again, only while charging... (I did an update using the update manager last night)

Thanks for any tips.

---

### Post by del_diablo on 2009-04-28
Add me on the list, my problem is that the fan makes my PC sound like a jet engine.
Can somebody just tell us how to actually manipilate the fans and similar outside BIOS with config files? I can't set it on my laptop, and from my experience you cannot do that on most laptops <.<

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2009-04-28
This is not a software problem , it is a hardware issue. Disassemble the cooling system and clean out the hair and lent from the copper parts , reapply thermal paste , re seat the heat sink and fan assembly. If your unsure about how to do this use google or take it to a PC repair shop and pay them to do it , We normally charge an hour for everything besides Toshiba's (because most of them are a pain to disassemble) and unless there's a fan failure (which would be addressed while the lap top is disassembled) it's always successful , you cannot fix this with software nor is it softwares fault.

---

### Post by expert464 on 2009-04-28
In my case, I can fix the problem of the fans never coming on by booting with acpi=off, but this causes other things to fail such as telling how much battery I have left and I can't remember if wireless also doesn't work. I'm dual booting with Windows XP and it has no problem controlling my fans when the CPU gets hot.

I'm guessing this might be more of a kernel issue than an Ubuntu issue?

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2009-04-28
> **sx66gns said:**
> This is not a software problem , it is a hardware issue. Disassemble the cooling system and clean out the hair and lent from the copper parts , reapply thermal paste , re seat the heat sink and fan assembly. If your unsure about how to do this use google or take it to a PC repair shop and pay them to do it , We normally charge an hour for everything besides Toshiba's (because most of them are a pain to disassemble) and unless there's a fan failure (which would be addressed while the lap top is disassembled) it's always successful , you cannot fix this with software nor is it softwares fault.

I highly doubt that it is always successful and that only applies in some cases. I would also like to think that even if it was a hardware issue that you could have to software compensate by keeping the fan(s) on or something.

---

### Post by martinbures on 2009-04-28
This is totally NOT a hardware issue.  I have two oses on the same machine.  In one, works fine.  9.04, not so fine.  The same machine, 2 hours earlier with 8.10 worked fine as well.

---

### Post by Nicolas19 on 2009-04-29
I second that, it's NOT a hardware issue. I have an ASUS laptop, just returned from the manufacturer, cleaned. I have an XP and a Ubuntu 9.04. The Ubuntu worked like a charm newly installed, but since I have upgraded it with some basic programs (with the inbuilt upgrader, wine, and dx9 with winetricks, nothing else), firefox (which claims to be up to date) freezes only after 5-10 minutes of browsing, fans go like crazy. I can't do any diagnostics as the notebook's not responding to mouse, keyboard, nothing, just the emergency shutdown. In XP, I can work for hours, play demanding games, anything, so it's definitely not hw.

---

### Post by jako on 2009-04-29
Had similar problem with a HP nc8430, ati graphics (X1600) with xserver radeon driver, i.e. open source. Put option "DynamicClocks" "on" in my xorg.conf, solved problem. With the propietary driver I'd always used aticonfig to throttle things, but of course that's not possible now.

---

### Post by seish on 2009-04-29
Similar ASUS laptop heat issues here. 
Intel Core 2 Duo 2.00 ghz + Intel 965


Temperature when just browsing is around 62 celsius. Never had that before(compiz disabled).

With Ibex I had 48 with and 53 without cpu undervolting. Processor load is around 3%. I had compiz on too. Even google earth didn't heat it up to over 60 degrees. Something's quite wrong


Can someone at leat point out if its a kernel issue? 

I'm using 2.6.30-020630rc2-generic amd_64

---

### Post by goetzlisa on 2009-04-29
Sorry sx66gns, but having just lived through a bad bios update on my other computer, I have learned that blaming fan issues on hardware is often little more than an inflated ego blowing hot air.  I've replaced fans after problems occuring after updating software before, and it was both an exercise in futility and many hours of wasted time.  

This is clearly a software problem.  

I'm not sure how I did it, but my D400 seems to be behaving.  I was running the fans at high speed using gkrelland barely keeping temperatures under 62C. One or two restarts later, and I am now comfortably browsing at 39-41.  I did download an update in the interim.  Could that have been the answer?

---

### Post by redfox7691 on 2009-05-02
> **jako said:**
> Had similar problem with a HP nc8430, ati graphics (X1600) with xserver radeon driver, i.e. open source. Put option "DynamicClocks" "on" in my xorg.conf, solved problem. With the propietary driver I'd always used aticonfig to throttle things, but of course that's not possible now.

I've same notebook: try with latest radeon driver from [https://launchpad.net/~tormodvolden/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~tormodvolden/+archive/ppa) and with theese options in xorg.conf

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"ClockGating"		"true"
	Option		"DynamicPM"			"true"
#	Option		"ForceLowPowerMode"	"true"
EndSection

---

### Post by jvijayv on 2009-05-02
Well, after the laptop started over heating with 9.04, I did clean use a cool air gun to clean the cpu and heat vents.

It did help. It seems to be working fine now. But, again, one question still remains unanswered - With 8.04 it was fine even though the laptop cooling vents may have been blocked...

Thanks!

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2009-05-03
Can everyone having ACPI troubles check out these links? I may have the answer.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1036051&highlight=dsdt](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1036051&highlight=dsdt)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1147474](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1147474)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/272247?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/272247?comments=all)

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2009-05-04
Umm isn't iasl for Intel? What if you have AMD?

---

### Post by estebandid0 on 2009-05-05
Hi there

I am having this trouble also, It just appeared a few days ago.

I decided first to give it a try to Ubuntu AMD 64 on a live disk, since that day the machine change it, it started to crash and then one day it was dead.

I took it to the hp service they checked and they said that the mainboard was death, so they replaced.

Today i was installing 9.04 and so far the machines has shutdown 4 times, because of the overheating, I have not having this trouble since 7.04 and 7.10.

I am also using a fan cooler but it is not working properly. For the moment I am going back to 8.10 I am writting my master thesis and I can not loose time, If some one finds the answer please let us know to see it, 9.04 looks beautiful.

My laptop is HP tx1420us AMD64x2

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2009-05-05
> **brandon88tube said:**
> Umm isn't iasl for Intel? What if you have AMD?

Don't let the name fool you. It is just developed by Intel. The iasl is only a tool to extract your DSDT from your BIOS so it can be edited. It has nothing to do with your CPU or hardware.

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2009-05-05
> **estebandid0 said:**
> Hi there

I am having this trouble also, It just appeared a few days ago.

I decided first to give it a try to Ubuntu AMD 64 on a live disk, since that day the machine change it, it started to crash and then one day it was dead.

I took it to the hp service they checked and they said that the mainboard was death, so they replaced.

Today i was installing 9.04 and so far the machines has shutdown 4 times, because of the overheating, I have not having this trouble since 7.04 and 7.10.

I am also using a fan cooler but it is not working properly. For the moment I am going back to 8.10 I am writting my master thesis and I can not loose time, If some one finds the answer please let us know to see it, 9.04 looks beautiful.

My laptop is HP tx1420us AMD64x2
 
Have a look at my DSDT how to in the links above. Send me a copy of your dsdt.dsl file, and I will look to see if there are any temp errors.

---

### Post by estebandid0 on 2009-05-05
> **67GTA said:**
> Have a look at my DSDT how to in the links above. Send me a copy of your dsdt.dsl file, and I will look to see if there are any temp errors.

Thanks, I am running now 8.10 again, or do I have to give u the DSDT from the 9.04??

If so, I will try to installed again over the weekend and see the info

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2009-05-05
You can generate it from 8.10. Your DSDT is hard coded in to your BIOS and never changes.

---

### Post by estebandid0 on 2009-05-06
> **67GTA said:**
> You can generate it from 8.10. Your DSDT is hard coded in to your BIOS and never changes.

Dear 67GTA thanks for your help here is the info

My best regards

Esteban

Here is the info error

/home/user/dsdt.dsl  3787:                 Method (_Q16, 0, NotSerialized)
Warning  1086 -         Not all control paths return a value ^  (_Q16)

/home/user/dsdt.dsl  5823:                             And (CTRL, 0x1E)
Warning  1104 -            Result is not used, operator has no effect ^ 

/home/user/dsdt.dsl  6080:                             And (CTRL, 0x1E)
Warning  1104 -            Result is not used, operator has no effect ^ 

/home/user/dsdt.dsl  6204:                             And (CTRL, 0x1E)
Warning  1104 -            Result is not used, operator has no effect ^ 

ASL Input:  /home/user/dsdt.dsl - 8198 lines, 284102 bytes, 4189 keywords
AML Output: dsdt.aml - 32602 bytes 851 named objects 3338 executable opcodes

Compilation complete. 0 Errors, 4 Warnings, 0 Remarks, 1193 Optimizations

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2009-05-06
estebandid0:

I think I have you fixed up. It now has zero errors. Follow my how to to finish up, and then send me a copy of ```
sudo dmesg
``` from a terminal so I can see if everything looks okay. Be sure to add the acpi_osi="Linux" line per the how to. 

[ATTACH]112723[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by estebandid0 on 2009-05-07
> **67GTA said:**
> estebandid0:

I think I have you fixed up. It now has zero errors. Follow my how to to finish up, and then send me a copy of ```
sudo dmesg
``` from a terminal so I can see if everything looks okay. Be sure to add the acpi_osi="Linux" line per the how to. 

[ATTACH]112723[/ATTACH]

Hi there

Ok I am attaching my dmesg. 

Please check the part hecking initramfs for custom DSDT in mine does not appear NVidia, in mine appears HP

Also I added to the grub the acpi_osi="Linux" permanently to the /boot/grub/menu.lst


I tried the commands 

cat /proc/acpi/thermal_zone/THRM/temperature
temperature 51 C

cat /proc/acpi/thermal_zone/THRM/trip_points
critical (S5):           95 C
passive:                 100 C: tc1=2 tc2=3 tsp=100 devices=CPU0 CPU1 

cat /proc/acpi/fan/FAN/state
cat: /proc/acpi/fan/FAN/state: No such file or directory

I am worried why the fan state does not show up

What would happend if I want to change to 9.04 and also when the kernel changes?? what do i have to do the

I am running 8.10 so far

Thanks for all your help and time

---

### Post by swinky on 2009-05-07
I am running a Toshiba laptop, so I am not sure how to solve this problem specifically for this laptop, but first let me say that for everybody saying that the fan not spinning up CAN'T be a software problem, that is not true. In 8.10 I had to install a module to get the fan to spin up at all, and as soon as I would load the module the fan would jump into action.

Have you tried installing the omnibook module? It is a module for working with acpi-related stuff on a number of HP, Toshiba, and some other laptops. Don't let the name fool you, it is not ONLY for omnibooks. It worked for me on my Toshiba Satellite L305 (though some people with my model [including me] report the laptop turning itself on after shutting down, so watch for that). I haven't heard of anybody using it on your specific model of laptop, but it might be worth a try: [http://packages.kirya.net/debian/pool/main/o/omnibook/]("http://packages.kirya.net/debian/pool/main/o/omnibook/")

If you are running 32 bit you can just install the module .deb file, otherwise grab the source and compile and install it. Hope it works for you!

---

### Post by estebandid0 on 2009-05-07
> **swinky said:**
> 
Have you tried installing the omnibook module? It is a module for working with acpi-related stuff on a number of HP, Toshiba, and some other laptops. Don't let the name fool you, it is not ONLY for omnibooks. It worked for me on my Toshiba Satellite L305 (though some people with my model [including me] report the laptop turning itself on after shutting down, so watch for that). I haven't heard of anybody using it on your specific model of laptop, but it might be worth a try: [http://packages.kirya.net/debian/pool/main/o/omnibook/]("http://packages.kirya.net/debian/pool/main/o/omnibook/")

If you are running 32 bit you can just install the module .deb file, otherwise grab the source and compile and install it. Hope it works for you!

After installing how do u know if it works??

---

### Post by swinky on 2009-05-07
> After installing how do u know if it works??

Once installed you have to load the module, which can be done from the console with:

```
sudo modprobe omnibook
```

If it works the fan should kick on pretty much immediately, at least in my experience. Unfortunately, some laptops require specific settings for the module. On my Toshiba, for example, I had to type "sudo modprobe omnibook ectype=11" Since I haven't been able to find any info on the omnibook module for this laptop specifically, it might require some trial and error, if it works at all. You can remove the module and try again by typing:
```
sudo rmmod omnibook
sudo modprobe omnibook ectype=1
```
etc... The only other ectype I've heard of (admittedly for another Toshiba laptop) is ectype=12.

Like I said, I unfortunately don't know if this module will work for you though.

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2009-05-07
estebandid0: Everything looks good. Your fan is controlled by your BIOS. The thermal trip_points tell the fan when to kick on/off. Devices in /proc/acpi will not be populated unless the OS has control over them. You might check your BIOS to see if there are any fan settings there. Also, have you installed lm-sensors? Install them and run ```
sudo sensors-detect
``` in a terminal. Just hit enter for each question. The last question needs to be answered "yes". This will make any extra modules load at boot.

---

### Post by seish on 2009-05-07
> **estebandid0 said:**
> Dear 67GTA thanks for your help here is the info

My best regards
......

/home/user/dsdt.dsl  6204:                             And (CTRL, 0x1E)
Warning  1104 -            Result is not used, operator has no effect ^ 



Oy there
 
How did you fix this warning man? I fixed the 1087s and the MUTE one, but I can't find a fix for this one. Thanx in advance!

```
/home/melon/dsdt.dsl  8876:                     And (CTRL, 0x1E)
Warning  1105 -                                         ^ Result is not used, operator has no effect

/home/melon/dsdt.dsl 13514:             Method (_DSM, 4, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                    ^ Not all control paths return a value (_DSM)

/home/melon/dsdt.dsl 13514:             Method (_DSM, 4, NotSerialized)
Warning  1080 -                                    ^ Reserved method must return a value (_DSM)

/home/melon/dsdt.dsl 13520:                         Name (_T_0, Zero)
Remark   5110 -                Use of compiler reserved name ^  (_T_0)

/home/melon/dsdt.dsl 13556:                         Name (_T_1, Zero)
Remark   5110 -                Use of compiler reserved name ^  (_T_1)

ASL Input:  /home/melon/dsdt.dsl - 13712 lines, 391762 bytes, 6577 keywords
AML Output: /home/melon/dsdt.aml - 48987 bytes, 1437 named objects, 5140 executable opcodes

Compilation complete. 0 Errors, 3 Warnings, 2 Remarks, 41 Optimizations

```

PS: I had a hard time making up a user name :)

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2009-05-07
Just delete the whole line. I'm not sure what it pertains to, but it is not needed or used in the string it is in. Carefully delete that line and the blank space it leaves behind so the lines before and after touch each other.

---

### Post by seish on 2009-05-07
Hey thanx a lot mate :KS:KS:KS

Especially if someone that bad at machine mambo jumbo like me fixed his dsdt file.

As for the rest of ze errors and remarks, if someone is stuck where I am and very noob at linux here's how i did it with gedit:


1087 error
Use the Highlight Brackets checkbox under Edit>Preferences, highligt the first { bracket after your line with 1087 error and look for the marked closing one that belongs to it. after that add
```
   ***programming language equasions and whatnot****
         **  Return(Package(0x02){0x00, 0x00})** <----this line
              }

```Before ze last bracket. AFAIK its just to get rid of the Warning but why not fix it :))


_T_0, _T_1 error
Just replace all _T_1 with something like yTy1 and ur all set.

*Sorry if I posted obvious stuff everyone knows, but it took me quite some time of searching to find the fixes so I figured repeating it once more wont hurt anyone. Cheerios*

---

### Post by CylnZ on 2009-05-07
Acer 5620 Extensa
9.04 64bit
clean install
lshw:
```
john-laptop2              
    description: Notebook
    product: Extensa 5620
    vendor: Acer
    version: 0100
    serial: LXE540X00773704B442000
    width: 64 bits
    capabilities: smbios-2.4 dmi-2.4 vsyscall64 vsyscall32
    configuration: boot=oem-specific chassis=notebook uuid=D8A80220-61D6-11DC-A552-BD414DDB682A
  *-core
       description: Motherboard
       product: Columbia
       vendor: Acer
       physical id: 0
       version: Rev
       serial: LXE540X00773704B442000
     *-firmware
          description: BIOS
          vendor: Phoenix Technologies LTD
          physical id: 0
          version: V1.35 (07/03/2008)
          size: 105KiB
          capacity: 960KiB
          capabilities: isa pci pcmcia pnp upgrade shadowing escd cdboot acpi usb agp biosbootspecification
     *-cpu
          description: CPU
          product: Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU     T5250  @ 1.50GHz
          vendor: Intel Corp.
          physical id: 4
          bus info: cpu@0
          version: CPU Version
          slot: U2E1
          size: 1GHz
          capacity: 1500MHz
          width: 64 bits
          clock: 166MHz
          capabilities: fpu fpu_exception wp vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe syscall nx x86-64 constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts rep_good pni dtes64 monitor ds_cpl est tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm lahf_lm cpufreq
        *-cache:0
             description: L1 cache
             physical id: 5
             slot: L1 Cache
             size: 64KiB
             capacity: 64KiB
             capabilities: asynchronous internal write-back
        *-cache:1
             description: L2 cache
             physical id: 6
             slot: L2 Cache
             size: 2MiB
             capacity: 4MiB
             capabilities: burst internal write-back
     *-memory
          description: System Memory
          physical id: 10
          slot: System board or motherboard
          size: 2GiB
        *-bank:0
             description: SODIMM Synchronous 667 MHz (1.5 ns)
             product: SODIMM000
             vendor: Mfg 0
             physical id: 0
             serial: 1234-B0
             slot: M1
             size: 1GiB
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 667MHz (1.5ns)
        *-bank:1
             description: SODIMM Synchronous 667 MHz (1.5 ns)
             product: SODIMM001
             vendor: Mfg 1
             physical id: 1
             serial: 1234-B1
             slot: M2
             size: 1GiB
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 667MHz (1.5ns)
     *-pci
          description: Host bridge
          product: Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub
          vendor: Intel Corporation
          physical id: 100
          bus info: pci@0000:00:00.0
          version: 03
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
          configuration: driver=agpgart-intel module=intel_agp
        *-display:0 UNCLAIMED
             description: VGA compatible controller
             product: Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
             version: 03
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: msi pm bus_master cap_list
             configuration: latency=0
        *-display:1 UNCLAIMED
             description: Display controller
             product: Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 2.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.1
             version: 03
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
             configuration: latency=0
        *-usb:0
             description: USB Controller
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1a
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1a.0
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master
             configuration: driver=uhci_hcd latency=0 module=uhci_hcd
        *-usb:1
             description: USB Controller
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1a.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1a.1
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master
             configuration: driver=uhci_hcd latency=0 module=uhci_hcd
        *-usb:2
             description: USB Controller
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1a.7
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1a.7
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm debug bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=ehci_hcd latency=0 module=ehci_hcd
        *-multimedia
             description: Audio device
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1b
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0
             version: 03
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0 module=snd_hda_intel
        *-pci:0
             description: PCI bridge
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1c
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1c.0
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pci pciexpress msi pm bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=pcieport-driver
           *-network
                description: Ethernet interface
                product: NetLink BCM5787M Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express
                vendor: Broadcom Corporation
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
                logical name: eth0
                version: 02
                serial: 00:16:d3:e9:d6:df
                capacity: 1GB/s
                width: 64 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pm vpd msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
                configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=tg3 driverversion=3.94 firmware=5787m-v3.23 latency=0 link=no module=tg3 multicast=yes port=twisted pair
        *-pci:1
             description: PCI bridge
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 2
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1c.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1c.1
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pci pciexpress msi pm bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=pcieport-driver
           *-network
                description: Wireless interface
                product: PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection
                vendor: Intel Corporation
                physical id: 0
                bus info: pci@0000:04:00.0
                logical name: wmaster0
                version: 02
                serial: 00:1b:77:9e:34:f5
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
                configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwl3945 ip=192.168.1.106 latency=0 module=iwl3945 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abg
        *-pci:2
             description: PCI bridge
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 3
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1c.2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1c.2
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pci pciexpress msi pm bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=pcieport-driver
        *-usb:3
             description: USB Controller
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1d
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1d.0
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master
             configuration: driver=uhci_hcd latency=0 module=uhci_hcd
        *-usb:4
             description: USB Controller
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1d.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1d.1
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master
             configuration: driver=uhci_hcd latency=0 module=uhci_hcd
        *-usb:5
             description: USB Controller
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1d.2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1d.2
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master
             configuration: driver=uhci_hcd latency=0 module=uhci_hcd
        *-usb:6
             description: USB Controller
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1d.7
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1d.7
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm debug bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=ehci_hcd latency=0 module=ehci_hcd
        *-pci:3
             description: PCI bridge
             product: 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1e
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1e.0
             version: f3
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pci bus_master cap_list
           *-pcmcia
                description: CardBus bridge
                product: PCIxx12 Cardbus Controller
                vendor: Texas Instruments
                physical id: 6
                bus info: pci@0000:0f:06.0
                version: 00
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pcmcia bus_master cap_list
                configuration: driver=yenta_cardbus latency=176 maxlatency=5 mingnt=192 module=yenta_socket
           *-firewire
                description: FireWire (IEEE 1394)
                product: PCIxx12 OHCI Compliant IEEE 1394 Host Controller
                vendor: Texas Instruments
                physical id: 6.1
                bus info: pci@0000:0f:06.1
                version: 00
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
                configuration: driver=ohci1394 latency=32 maxlatency=4 mingnt=2 module=ohci1394
           *-storage
                description: Mass storage controller
                product: 5-in-1 Multimedia Card Reader (SD/MMC/MS/MS PRO/xD)
                vendor: Texas Instruments
                physical id: 6.2
                bus info: pci@0000:0f:06.2
                version: 00
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: storage pm bus_master cap_list
                configuration: driver=tifm_7xx1 latency=57 maxlatency=4 mingnt=7 module=tifm_7xx1
           *-system
                description: SD Host controller
                product: PCIxx12 SDA Standard Compliant SD Host Controller
                vendor: Texas Instruments
                physical id: 6.3
                bus info: pci@0000:0f:06.3
                version: 00
                width: 32 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
                configuration: driver=sdhci-pci latency=57 maxlatency=4 mingnt=7 module=sdhci_pci
        *-isa
             description: ISA bridge
             product: 82801HEM (ICH8M) LPC Interface Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1f
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1f.0
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: isa bus_master cap_list
             configuration: latency=0
        *-ide
             description: IDE interface
             product: 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) IDE Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1f.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1f.1
             logical name: scsi3
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: ide bus_master emulated
             configuration: driver=ata_piix latency=0
           *-cdrom
                description: DVD-RAM writer
                product: DVD A  DS8A1P
                vendor: Slimtype
                physical id: 0.0.0
                bus info: scsi@3:0.0.0
                logical name: /dev/cdrom
                logical name: /dev/cdrw
                logical name: /dev/dvd
                logical name: /dev/dvdrw
                logical name: /dev/scd0
                logical name: /dev/sr0
                version: CA11
                capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r dvd-ram
                configuration: ansiversion=5 status=nodisc
        *-storage
             description: SATA controller
             product: 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) SATA AHCI Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1f.2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1f.2
             logical name: scsi0
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 66MHz
             capabilities: storage msi pm bus_master cap_list emulated
             configuration: driver=ahci latency=0 module=ahci
           *-disk
                description: ATA Disk
                product: TOSHIBA MK2035GS
                vendor: Toshiba
                physical id: 0.0.0
                bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0
                logical name: /dev/sda
                version: DK02
                serial: 975GT096T
                size: 186GiB (200GB)
                capabilities: partitioned partitioned:dos
                configuration: ansiversion=5 signature=140161c4
              *-volume:0
                   description: EXT3 volume
                   vendor: Linux
                   physical id: 1
                   bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0,1
                   logical name: /dev/sda1
                   logical name: /
                   version: 1.0
                   serial: 177115b9-70ff-468b-807d-e097350d58fc
                   size: 46GiB
                   capacity: 46GiB
                   capabilities: primary bootable journaled extended_attributes large_files ext3 ext2 initialized
                   configuration: created=2009-05-06 21:55:40 filesystem=ext3 modified=2009-05-07 16:29:06 mount.fstype=ext3 mount.options=rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro,data=ordered mounted=2009-05-07 15:59:27 state=mounted
              *-volume:1
                   description: Extended partition
                   physical id: 2
                   bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0,2
                   logical name: /dev/sda2
                   size: 139GiB
                   capacity: 139GiB
                   capabilities: primary extended partitioned partitioned:extended
                 *-logicalvolume:0
                      description: Linux swap / Solaris partition
                      physical id: 5
                      logical name: /dev/sda5
                      capacity: 3812MiB
                      capabilities: nofs
                 *-logicalvolume:1
                      description: Linux filesystem partition
                      physical id: 6
                      logical name: /dev/sda6
                      logical name: /home
                      capacity: 136GiB
                      configuration: mount.fstype=ext3 mount.options=rw,relatime,errors=continue,data=ordered state=mounted
        *-serial UNCLAIMED
             description: SMBus
             product: 82801H (ICH8 Family) SMBus Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1f.3
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1f.3
             version: 03
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             configuration: latency=0
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Ethernet interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: pan0
       serial: 6a:1a:19:f0:f4:77
       capabilities: ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bridge driverversion=2.3 firmware=N/A link=yes multicast=yes
```

first edit fixed error:
```

john@john-laptop2:~$ iasl -tc /home/john/dsdt.dsl

Intel ACPI Component Architecture
ASL Optimizing Compiler version 20081204 [Jan 10 2009]
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2008 Intel Corporation
Supports ACPI Specification Revision 3.0a

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1065:             Name (_HID, "*pnp0c14")
Error    4001 -        String must be entirely alphanumeric ^  (*pnp0c14)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1121:             Method (_WED, 1, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (_WED)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1121:             Method (_WED, 1, NotSerialized)
Warning  1080 -                                   ^ Reserved method must return a value (_WED)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1479:             Method (WMCA, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCA)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1614:             Method (WMCB, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCB)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1672:             Method (WMCD, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCD)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1866:             Method (WMCE, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCE)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  2306:             Method (WMCF, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCF)

ASL Input:  /home/john/dsdt.dsl - 8987 lines, 311134 bytes, 3819 keywords
Compilation complete. 1 Errors, 7 Warnings, 0 Remarks, 1015 Optimizations
```

now reads this on query:

```
Intel ACPI Component Architecture
ASL Optimizing Compiler version 20081204 [Jan 10 2009]
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2008 Intel Corporation
Supports ACPI Specification Revision 3.0a

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1121:             Method (_WED, 1, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (_WED)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1121:             Method (_WED, 1, NotSerialized)
Warning  1080 -                                   ^ Reserved method must return a value (_WED)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1479:             Method (WMCA, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCA)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1614:             Method (WMCB, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCB)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1672:             Method (WMCD, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCD)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  1866:             Method (WMCE, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCE)

/home/john/dsdt.dsl  2306:             Method (WMCF, 3, NotSerialized)
Warning  1087 -                                   ^ Not all control paths return a value (WMCF)

ASL Input:  /home/john/dsdt.dsl - 8987 lines, 311133 bytes, 3819 keywords
AML Output: /home/john/dsdt.aml - 34942 bytes, 803 named objects, 3016 executable opcodes

Compilation complete. 0 Errors, 7 Warnings, 0 Remarks, 1015 Optimizations

```

After several hours of googling to find the nfo to clear up the _WED and WMCA-F warnings I'm learning to hate oems as much as I've loathed m$ for 20 years.

I just know deep down that * on line 1065 error was intentional.

I think the :

 ```

Method (_WED, 1, NotSerialized)
            {
                Store (Arg0, P80H)
                If (LEqual (Arg0, 0xB0))
                {
                    Return (B0ED)
                }

                If (LEqual (Arg0, 0xB2))
                {
                    GACR ()
                    Return (B2ED)
                }

                If (LEqual (Arg0, 0xB4))
                {
                    Return (B4ED)
                }
            }

``` is what is supposed to allow the returns for all the other warnings but dogged if I can find out what its return should be. Any help would be appreciated.
Soon as I can get it 0,0,xx I'll upload a copy to the acpi project and here if you'd like.

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2009-05-08
Method (_WED, 1, NotSerialized)
            {
                Store (Arg0, P80H)
                If (LEqual (Arg0, 0xB0))
                {
                    Return (B0ED)
                }

                If (LEqual (Arg0, 0xB2))
                {
                    GACR ()
                    Return (B2ED)
                }

                If (LEqual (Arg0, 0xB4))
                {
                    Return (B4ED)
                }
                Return (0x00) <=== ADD THIS LINE
            }

---

### Post by CylnZ on 2009-05-08
OK, I added "Return (0x00)" where you indicated, recompiled, and voilà, only the 5 WMCA-F 1087 warnings left.

??, isn't "Return (0x00)" simply reporting a null to bypass the needed nfo so the syntax meets criteria?  That's what I've reading about for hours trying to avoid. I understand the desire to have a clean dsdt but if you report nulls to clean house aren't you kind of doing what the OEM and m$ started? Certainly I'm not carping @ you or the many others I'm reading and learning from on this, but I'm certain you see my point. If nulls are what I can accomplish right now, I can accept it, but to have hardware I'm not using correctly/at all will always leave a bad taste. (Possibly even worse than nortel static routing tables under Novell 3). The lack of white papers from phoenix would have been intolerable 10 years ago, and [www.acpi.info](www.acpi.info)... "[FONT=verdana, Arial, Helvetica][SIZE=2]ACPI (Advanced Configuration and Power Interface) is an open industry specification co-developed by **Hewlett-Packard**, **Inte****l**, **Microsoft**,  **Phoenix**, and **Toshiba**." Thats as big a laugh as unsigned driver restrictions.
I'll keep hacking away at it, ](*,)Thanks again for your help! Talk to you soon prolly, lol.
[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2009-05-08
In this case the entry already has 3 valid return values, but did not know what to do if no value was found. We just finished the equation. If the method had no valid return values, and you add Return (0x00), then you would just shut the error up without fixing anything.

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2009-05-08
This is not a Ubuntu problem , It's either hardware or censoring software within the CMOS settings which can be controlled by Most BIOS manufactured today which would be used to correct this issue similar to overclocking except in reverse in this case, but this certainly is not an OS problem any attempt to blame it on an OS is misinformation or malformed assumptions.

---

### Post by CylnZ on 2009-05-08
> **sx66gns said:**
> This is not a Ubuntu problem , It's either hardware or censoring software within the CMOS settings which can be controlled by Most BIOS manufactured today which would be used to correct this issue similar to overclocking except in reverse in this case, but this certainly is not an OS problem any attempt to blame it on an OS is misinformation or malformed assumptions.


Certainly, this whole discussion and issue isnt OS related at all, (except possibly for m$ throwing their weight around to try to remain a viable product by sabotaging other platforms). I fully realize this is a trend where m$ is influencing hardware vendors to use one set of hardware instructions for m$ systems and a different set of instruction traps for linux, (which is what I was on about in the post above) I did modify the linux trap to respond with the m$ trap for xpsp2 instead of the linux trap. My system fans are coming on now and system temps dropped 3-5C to 48-51C, under load, over the rest of this afternoon, even with the ambient @ 73F instead of 66F like it was last night.

I never meant to intimate it as a linux issue. In fact, if it wasnt for linux, I would never have learned about the issue at all. To be honest, I believe this has been an issue in many of the systems I built or dealt with for the last 10 years or so. I would dearly love to find an old asus sp97-v mmotherboard and disassemble its dsdt file. This whole issue reminds me of the early winmodem days. That was the same m$ overgrasping agenda that this appears to be(imo). Actually, it isnt even a windows issue, this is m$ wanting oems to use m$ tools to turn out poorly written dsdt tables with compiling errors.
Stock oob, my dsdt had 1 error-7 warnings-1015 optimizations. Wouldnt you call that poor ? I'm not a programmer by any means, and with GTA67s tiny tutorial I came up with this. And I dont know what Im doing. There isnt (imo) excuse to turn out code like this on a professional level that millions of consumers will be defrauded by. (Since my laptop box and manual says "This device complies with ACPI v 3.0 standard" I believe that selling me a product with errors that disable or cause poor performance or hardware damage due to poor dsdt design constitues fraud).

My thanks again to GTA for his help and turtorials.

---

### Post by CylnZ on 2009-05-08
> **67GTA said:**
> In this case the entry already has 3 valid return values, but did not know what to do if no value was found. We just finished the equation. If the method had no valid return values, and you add Return (0x00), then you would just shut the error up without fixing anything.

Ah. I see it now. This is a good bit to pick up all at once, heh. For once im having fun with computers again instead of just dredging along. Thanks

---

### Post by desmane on 2009-08-04
power management = OS related. 

windows runs stone cold and unfortunately in ubuntu it heats up! In windows, intel drivers even manage the temperatures, so that the fan stops ;-) 

I have a core 2 duo penryn, should I try undervolting it? Any suggestions?

---

