---
title: "touchpad doesn't work at all"
date: 2009-09-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by antonio_ing on 2009-09-29
hey guys

i have a toshiba satellite laptop with ubuntu 9.04. It worked perfectely up to 2 weeks ago when the touchpad stopped working at all. I don't remember if this followed after an update but maybe an odd update did this . My xorg.conf file is:

 # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

any suggestions?

thanks in advance

---

### Post by notiones on 2009-09-29
I am running Ubuntu 8.04 on a Lenovo T43 and my touchpad started acting flaky after the last kernel update (2.6.24-24). Sometimes the cursor would freeze for a few seconds or I would lose vertical scroll capability. I simply booted with the previous kernel, in my case 2.6.24-23, and I haven't had any problems. This morning they rolled out a new package for the kernel modules so I installed it and booted and am waiting to see if my problem has gone away. 

I am not saying your problem is related, but it is a simple matter to boot to an earlier kernel to find out. Just select the earlier kernel at the grub menu during boot.

By the way, that can't be your entire xorg.conf file. There is no section for your touchpad.

---

### Post by antonio_ing on 2009-09-29
could the missing of the touchpad part be the cause of my problem?

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2009-09-29
In 9.04, the touchpad is most likely configured in /usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/10osvendor or /usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/20thirdparty.  If it is a Synaptics touchpad, you should be able to find the configuration file under /usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/20thirdparty/11-x11-synaptics.fdi.

You might check:
```
dmesg|grep -i synaptics
```
and see if it brings up any information.  If it is not a synaptics touchpad but you know the name of it, you can try to search for it in dmesg.

---

### Post by antonio_ing on 2009-09-29
i got this:

[   12.713946] synaptics was reset on resume, see synaptics_resume_reset if you have trouble on resume

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2009-09-29
> **antonio_ing said:**
> i got this:

[   12.713946] synaptics was reset on resume, see synaptics_resume_reset if you have trouble on resume

It might be possible that it might not be starting either.  You can try adding synaptics_resume_reset in /boot/grub/menu.lst:
```
gksu gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

Look for a line like this:
```
title       Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-15-generic
root (hd0,5)
kernel      /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-15-generic root=UUID=dcceab25-4035-49ce-99d2-145d519f1bce ro splash
initrd      /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-15-generic
quiet

```
just add synaptics_resume_reset to the end of the kernel like so that it looks like this:
```
title       Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-15-generic
root (hd0,5)
kernel      /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-15-generic root=UUID=dcceab25-4035-49ce-99d2-145d519f1bce ro splash synaptics_resume_reset
initrd      /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-15-generic
quiet
```

It is an easy thing to test.  If it does not work, just remove it.

---

### Post by kruzztee on 2009-09-30
Monitoring this thread... I have the same problem as well.
The situation is the same, my touchpad is not working in my Jaunty installation. Windows detected my netbook's touchpad is ALPS.
I installed TPCONFIG, and it detected my touchpad to be Synaptics.
I also installed GSYNAPTICS and LIBSYNAPTICS but my touchpad still unresponsive.

---

### Post by yotam on 2009-10-17
You may consider trying my Alps driver in
   [http://www.medini.org/software/alps/alps.html]("www.medini.org/software/alps/alps.html")
-- yotam

---

