---
title: "64 vs 32 bit"
date: 2013-02-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rkonrad on 2013-02-27
I know this topic has been posted many time - but specifically, I have a dual core with only 1 g of memory.  I multi-task a lot, for instance, encoding videos, working with graphics, compiling source code etc.  Though many would recommend I stick with 32 bit because of the small amount of memory, would a 64 bit system improve my ability to multi-task - giving me a faster system overall?

Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-02-27
> **rkonrad said:**
> I know this topic has been posted many time - but specifically, I have a dual core with only 1 g of memory.  I multi-task a lot, for instance, encoding videos, working with graphics, compiling source code etc.  Though many would recommend I stick with 32 bit because of the small amount of memory, would a 64 bit system improve my ability to multi-task - giving me a faster system overall?

Thanks.
No.

Until you have more RAM, it will not help multi-tasking on a system that constrained.  In your situation, 64-bit will only more data around a little more efficiently, but you will end up with even less useable RAM since pointers are twice as large.

The best thing you can do is spend the $30 and get 4GB of RAM, assuming the machine supports it.

---

### Post by rkonrad on 2013-02-27
> **TheFu said:**
> No.

Until you have more RAM, it will not help multi-tasking on a system that constrained.  In your situation, 64-bit will only more data around a little more efficiently, but you will end up with even less useable RAM since pointers are twice as large.

The best thing you can do is spend the $30 and get 4GB of RAM, assuming the machine supports it.

My machine is probably 7 years old so I'm imagining my memory may be expensive.  With the minimalistic systems my memory usage is very manageable (Vector Standard, Puppy, etc).  I can do virtual box with windows, firefox, encoding video etc at the same time with memory to spare.  I'm going to try Lubuntu.  So the bottom line to your reply is that 64 Lubuntu will not be any advantage to me?  Thanks.

---

### Post by Mr. Shannon on 2013-02-27
You might want to have a look at [[COLOR="Blue"]32-bit and 64-bit[/COLOR]]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit") in the Ubuntu documentation which talks about this issue.

From a low level perspective, a 64 bit processor has twice the number of CPU registers and thus it can pass some function arguments in registers (fast) instead of on the stack (slow).  This can speed up execution of code that is compiled for a 64 bit machine.  Such as Ubuntu 64 bit.  NOTE: If this did not make any sense then just read it as, code compiled for and run on 64 bit machines will probably run faster than that compiled and run on 32 bit machines.
Source: "Computer Systems: A Programmers Perspective by R. Bryant and D. O'Hallaron"

However, as TheFu pointed out (good catch), you will have less usable ram.

Another thing to consider is that a computer that old may not be 64 bit capable, even though you have a dual core processor.  I have a 4 year old laptop that while dual core, some non processor hardware (I think the motherboard) is not capable of supporting 64 bit.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-02-27
> **rkonrad said:**
> My machine is probably 7 years old so I'm imagining my memory may be expensive.  With the minimalistic systems my memory usage is very manageable (Vector Standard, Puppy, etc).  I can do virtual box with windows, firefox, encoding video etc at the same time with memory to spare.  I'm going to try Lubuntu.  So the bottom line to your reply is that 64 Lubuntu will not be any advantage to me?  Thanks.

You never know the price until you look. Many people have old machines lying around too - and may give you their old RAM.  I'm staring at 10 sticks of 1GB RAM - DDR or DDR2 - right now that I have ZERO use for.

In my metro area, there are a few 2nd-hand computer stores. You might check these too.  RAM doesn't tend to wear out IME, though it can be picky. Having a matched set was important previously.  Any of the RAM vendor lookup tools works well to get the right model RAM.  Laptop RAM is almost always more expensive.

Using virtualbox with just 1G of total RAM is brave.  In my VirtualBox classes, I tell people 1G is the min for a happy experience and 4G or more is really best if you want to run Win Vista or later.

As always, just because you **CAN** do something, doesn't mean it is a good idea.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-02-27
If you open a terminal and run this command:
sudo lshw -html > Desktop/config.htm

It creates an html file with a lot of detail about your computer, including the motherboard identification and the speed of the RAM. You can probably find the motherboard manual online, which will tell you the type of memory (DDR or DDR2) then you can search for the appropriate type and speed of memory. As you say, it might be expensive, but you might find a bargain on eBay.

Oh, yes, config will also tell you if there are empty memory slots. If you have two 512 MB memory sticks and two empty slots, adding two more 512 MB sticks should work nicely.

---

