---
title: "Dual Monitors with Xubuntu on a Compaq Presario 2200 Laptop"
date: 2008-07-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by seiya42 on 2008-07-10
I have successfully installed Xubuntu on an old Presario 2200 laptop. I am trying to connect another monitor to the laptop. The laptop's built in screen is 15" with a max resolution of 1024x768. The other monitor is 17" with a max resolution of 1280x1024. I am trying to set up the larger monitor to be the main monitor on top of the laptop's monitor and use the laptop's monitor as a secondary screen on the bottom. The laptop has integrated Intel graphics. When I use both monitors now the top monitor works fine at its 1280x1024 resolution. The bottom monitor mirrors the top monitor but the image is cut off on the bottom and right side of the screen because it's max resolution is 1024x768. Here is my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by seiya42 on 2008-07-11
bump

---

