---
title: "How to setup printer Canon LBP 3000??"
date: 2010-05-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by toypest on 2010-05-19
i can't get my printer Canon LBP 3000 to work under Ubuntu 10.04 LTS!

As many instruction guides say, i've done the following:

1. cups is installed by default
2. i've installed:
    - cndrvcups-common_2.00-2_i386.deb
    - cndrvcups-capt_2.00-2_i386.deb
3. sudo /usr/sbin/lpadmin -p LBP3000 -m CNCUPSLBP3000CAPTK.ppd -v ccp:/var/ccpd/fifo0 -E
4. sudo /usr/sbin/ccpdadmin -p LBP3000 -o /dev/usb/lp0
5. sudo /etc/init.d/cups restart
6. sudo /etc/init.d/ccpd start

THE RESULTS:
1. printer is recognized by the system, no error messages appear
2. when i try to print anything, the print job appears in the print queue with "processing" status, but PRINTER DOESN'T RESPOND IN ANY WAY, NO PRINTING, NO ERROR MESSAGES.

SO WHAT AM I DOING WRONG? HOW TO MAKE Canon LBP 3000 WORK UNDER UBUNTU?

thanks.

---

### Post by VSilya on 2010-06-20
I have the same problem. LBP3000. The same symptom data... 
Please, help... I have to use my printer and all my family in our network but I compelled to restart mashine and start unfriendly Windows. It's very uncomfortable///
P.S. Sorry for bad english)

---

### Post by sachin241112 on 2012-06-20
**For Ubuntu 12.04 LTS**
 
First Install Linux_CAPT_PrinterDriver_V240_uk_EN Download it from Canon Site.
Both cndrvcups-common_2.40-1_i386.deb and cndrvcups-capt_2.40-1_i386.deb Install
Then reboot system
open terminal by Ctrl+Alt+T
/usr/sbin/lpadmin-p LBP3000 -m CNCUPSLBP3000CAPTK.ppd -v ccp:/var/ccpd/fifo0 -E
login to root in terminal
/usr/sbin/ccpdadmin -p LBP3000 -o /dev/usb/lp0
sudo /etc/init.d/ccpd restart
sudo service cups restart
sudo /etc/init.d/ccpd restart
sudo /etc/init.d/ccpd status
sudo /etc/init.d/ccpd restart
 
than restart your system
after restarting system you find an auto generated printer with diffrent name than our installed printer 
disable that autogenerated printer 
set default to our manually installed printer name LBP3000
 
Than test your print
Enjoy with unintrupted Printing

---

### Post by Sivella on 2012-06-20
Hello toypest,

Look at this thread :
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1982917](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1982917)

Follows my post#9 then #4 for install and #6 for ccpd auto-management .

Of course type LBP3000 instead of LBP3100 :p.

---

