---
title: "resolution probleme"
date: 2008-12-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by xirix404 on 2008-12-08
Hi Everybody

first of I am completely new to Linux.
I just installed Ubuntu 8.10 on my desktop PC

I run a Geforce 6800 GT with the 177.80 driver activated on a Epson
Beamer.

This is a dualboot installation with Vista.

On Vista, i set the Resolution to 1360 X 780 but if i try this in Ubuntu via x server (the nivida one) the Beamer doesent display the hole screen. And if i go on menu->info, on the Beamer its telling me, 
that the resolution displayed is 1024 X 780. ( the effective resolution is 1360 X 780 but the beamer only displays 1024 X 780)

Best Regards

---

### Post by xirix404 on 2008-12-08
nobody?
i am getting really frustraded having to use windows at the moment....

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2008-12-08
Hi. Could you post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf? That would help a lot. :p

---

### Post by xirix404 on 2008-12-08
sorry but how do i get to that data?
on the terminal it says;

bash: /etc/X11/xorg.conf: Permission denied

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2008-12-08
You have to type *sudo* in front of your command. That will give you root priveleges.

---

### Post by xirix404 on 2008-12-25
it doesnt work.
This is what i get:

xirix@xirix-desktop:~$ /etc/X11/xorg.conf
bash: /etc/X11/xorg.conf: Permission denied
xirix@xirix-desktop:~$ sudo /etc/X11/xorg.conf
[sudo] password for xirix: 
sudo: /etc/X11/xorg.conf: command not found
xirix@xirix-desktop:~$

---

### Post by icanfly0307 on 2008-12-25
*sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf* should do the trick. Gedit is the text editor that will open up the file. Post it's contents. :)

---

### Post by xirix404 on 2008-12-25
that worked:P

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by damis648 on 2008-12-25
I gather you are using nvidia-settings? In the display configuration section, select 1360x780 resolution, click Advanced, and in the panning field put
```
1360x780
``` and apply and see if that works.

EDIT: Also, sorry to ask, but what's a 'Beamer'?

---

### Post by AndrewThe greek on 2008-12-25
Well hi I tried to install ubuntu 7.10 on my pc but when it is checking for the system it says the the server restarted 9 times and there is an error bla bla bla...  I am having windows xp also and i have a HP MINI NOTE 2133 PC. When i bought it it had linux Suise enterprise 10 i think but i can understand why is this happening please HELP!!!!:

---

### Post by damis648 on 2008-12-25
> **AndrewThe greek said:**
> Well hi I tried to install ubuntu 7.10 on my pc but when it is checking for the system it says the the server restarted 9 times and there is an error bla bla bla...  I am having windows xp also and i have a HP MINI NOTE 2133 PC. When i bought it it had linux Suise enterprise 10 i think but i can understand why is this happening please HELP!!!!:

Please make your own thread.

---

### Post by xirix404 on 2008-12-26
thats the probleme
i set it to 1360X768 already but the Projector doenst display the hole thing.
In in other words its not filling up the hole screen (like it would be on 4:3 or something)

Its like the Projector is not getting it.
I set to 1360X768, but on my projector-menu, under the tab information it still shows:
display 1024X768

---

