---
title: "11.10 network printer - add printer by IP ?"
date: 2011-10-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kriss3d on 2011-10-27
Im having a problem with installing printers in gnome classic (ubuntu 11.10)
Ive currently set up a computer with everything. Removed the unity stuff and basicly it looks like the old gnome 2. Its also set for domain and everything works just fine.

When it comes to printers the add printing program will just let me search for printers but they all show up as whatever model it is. There is no indication such as bonjourname, hostname nor IP.

Now.. Im setting this up in an enviorment where we have perhaps 10 of the exact same type printers installed. The big question here is: How do i tell them apart ?
I cant get ANY info of the printers like that and i cant belive id have to install a printer.. print out a testpage then go around to every single printer to check where it went. Then come back and perhaps pick another printer and start all over untill ive installed the right printer.. Then doing this with every single install i make.. 

Isnt there a way to install a printer by IP ?

---

### Post by tors on 2011-10-27
Have you tried using the local CUPS web-page?

[http://localhost:631](http://localhost:631)

---

### Post by kriss3d on 2011-10-27
Sweet. That works. Just gotta find the right driver now i guess. But thanks.

---

### Post by hewbie2 on 2011-12-14
The add/remove buttons [+][-] were greyed out for me - so I ran the [system settings] from the cmd line w/ [sudo] - as follows: 

 sudo gnome-control-center --overview
[sudo] password for xxxxxxxxx: 

...and received this error:

[COLOR="DarkRed"](gnome-control-center:4921): printers-cc-panel-WARNING **: Your system does not have the cups-pk-helper's policy "org.opensuse.cupspkhelper.mechanism.all-edit" installed. Please check your installation
[/COLOR]

So I searched for [cups-pk-helper] using the Ubuntu SW Center, and installed.  Problem fixed.

You will need the IP address (or network path name).

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-12-15
> **hewbie2 said:**
> You will need the IP address (or network path name).

Or ... maybe not.

In prior Ubuntu versions, you were right -- you had to already have that info to install network printers.

But using CUPS in 11.10, I noticed that it had already discovered my network printers when I went to add them. All I had to do was scroll down the list and pick them.

---

