---
title: "How to get the xorg.conf file corresponding to a standard ubuntu install?"
date: 2014-07-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by fivebells on 2014-07-08
I've installed a GPU which I only want to use for scientific computation, but it's led to all kinds of confusion with my X configuration.  

I've been told I need an xorg.conf file to get this to work.  If I leave the GPU unpowered and boot without any xorg.conf file, I get a sane X configuration.  How can I get the xorg.conf file corresponding to this?  The basic xorg.conf file given [here]([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config)) sort of works, but it results in "xrandr -q" only reporting one head, when in fact I have two.  "X -configure" or "Xorg -configure" errors out with "Number of created screens does not match number of detected devices."

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-07-09
Hello!

What GPU are you using?  Which driver?

By default, none of the currently supported Ubuntu releases use an xorg.conf -- so getting to a "standard" installation would be having none.

However, installing a driver will usually create a rudimentary one.

If you are doing scientific calculations, ATi or nVIDIA, you will almost certainly need the proprietary driver from the OEM.  The BLOBs can be found in the Canonical repos, but they probably won't be the very most recent versions.

---

### Post by fivebells on 2014-07-09
Hi, Qlll.  It's an NVIDIA GTX 560.  I've installed the propietary driver for it as outlined [here]([http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2014/04/install-nvidia-driver-331-67-ubuntu1404/](http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2014/04/install-nvidia-driver-331-67-ubuntu1404/)).  If I use the xorg.conf generated by this installation procedure, I get a message "The system is running in low-graphics mode.  Your screen, graphics card, and input device settings could not be detected correctly.  You will need to configure these for yourself."  This could be because I've attached the monitors to the graphics jacks built in to the motherboard, but that is exactly how I want to arrange things.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-07-09
> [COLOR=#000000] attached the monitors to the graphics jacks built in to the motherboard,[/COLOR]

What is a graphic jack? You install a driver for an Nvidia GTX560 and then expect its configuration file to work with some other graphic adapters? You need to give a clearer explanation of your system.

---

### Post by fivebells on 2014-07-09
Hi, grahammechanical.  By "graphics jack" I meant the ports for the monitor cables.  My motherboard has two, an HDMI and a VGA port.  I would like to use these ports for my monitors, rather than the GPU.  I wasn't really expecting the NVIDIA xorg.conf to work with that configuration, just mentioned it because I'd tried it.  I was under the impression that I do need the NVIDIA graphics drivers installed to get CUDA working, but I could be wrong about that.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-07-10
The ports in your motherboard are for the integrated graphics chip. You can't use those and expect the add-on card to work. In order to use your nvidia card you need to
 a) select it in BIOS explicitly,
b) connect the monitors to the nvidia card's ports and no other ports (many boards default to the integrated graphics whenever they detect a cable there).

To get CUDA working you need the proprietary nvidia drivers -and- to actually USE that card. You can't use both at the same time.

---

