---
title: "9.04 not recognize Philips GoGear SA1115 USB pendrive"
date: 2009-06-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by emili01234 on 2009-06-15
Hello everybody!
I have a Philips SA1115 mp3 player. After upgrade from 8.10 to 9.04 is not recognized anymore.

When I run 'lsusb' the device is listed:
    Bus 005 Device 003: ID 0471:0164 Philips 

But not in 'fdisk -l' or '/proc/partitions'

So, I can't mount it manually.

I have to say that other ubs pendrives are recognized same as my usb keyboard and mouse.

And if I start Ubuntu with the kernel 2.6.27-11 the device is recognized and I can mount it manually,
but doesn't start gnome because the display driver is not recognized.

This is the content of /var/log/messages when I plug the device:
Jun 15 11:50:50 emi-desktop kernel: [   79.424030] usb 4-1: new full speed USB device using ohci_hcd and address 2
Jun 15 11:50:53 emi-desktop kernel: [   81.884773] usb 4-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
Jun 15 11:50:53 emi-desktop kernel: [   81.920580] Initializing USB Mass Storage driver...
Jun 15 11:50:53 emi-desktop kernel: [   81.924728] scsi6 : SCSI emulation for USB Mass Storage devices
Jun 15 11:50:53 emi-desktop kernel: [   81.925131] usbcore: registered new interface driver usb-storage
Jun 15 11:50:53 emi-desktop kernel: [   81.925135] USB Mass Storage support registered.

Appreciate any help or suggestion.

Thanx!

---

### Post by emili01234 on 2009-06-20
I think the problem is that the ehci_hcd module is now compiled directly into the kernel.
For this reason can't be unloaded. Am I wrong?
This module is responsible of usb 2.0 support.
I guess my pendrive is not recognized because only support usb 1.1.

Anyone have this problem with usb 1.1 devices?

---

### Post by MattressVon on 2011-03-16
Hey everyone. If you install Clementine (the multi desktop port of Amoarok 1.4) and set your Phillips Go Gear player to MTP mode, it will load all your tracks on our player with the correct tags. You need to have the latest firmware upgrade, but Clementine works well with Phillips GoGear players. It uses the sqylite database so it plays well with GoGear players.

1.) Upgrade firmware (I did this via windows 7 on my netbook dual boot, but there are instructions around for linux)

2.) Install Clementine:
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:me-davidsansome/clementine
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install clementine

3.) Install Easytag

sudo apt-get install easytag

4.) Back up your tracks to your computer and reformat your player via the reformat venue option on the player.

5.) Point Clementine at your library:

Tools>preferences>music library

6.) Open your music in easytag and remove all comments, composer, Orig artist, copyright, url, and encoded by tags (sqylite and the gogaer firmware do not like these tag options. I'm not sure why, but this is what I had to do.)

7.) Using the Scanner in Easytag rename all tracks to this format %n - %a - %t or %n - %t. (you can do others but the dash is the important part. No dots or parenthesis. 

8.) Now go into Clemementine and update your library.

9.) Set your GoGear player to MTP mode and plug it into your computer using the USB cable. 

10.) Go to Clmentine and click on devices. You should see your player. Double click on it to load it.

11.) Let your computer scan it.

12.) Go to your library and right click on an artist or album you want to add to your player. In the pop up menu select copy to device. 

13.) Under naming options make sure the tag format matches what you set in Easytag. For example, if you did %n - %t make sure it does {%track - }%title.%extension so if you have 01 - The Grape in your folder, you get 01- The Grape in the same folder on your player.

Also at the beginning of the string you need to add the destination folder. Your string by default looks like:

%artist/%album{ (Disc %disc)}/{%track - }%title.%extension

You want it to look like:

/music/%artist/%album{ (Disc %disc)}/{%track - }%title.%extension

Otherwise it will just load the music onto your players root directory and not put it in the music folder.

14.) Click ok and it will load the track. Notice it only does 10 tracks at a time. I still haven't figured out how to fix this. When I do I'll post it here.

Your music should now be on your player and in the right place. Unmount your player using clementine and unplug it from the USB cable. Let it update the database and go in and check out the working tags!

---

