---
title: "fix resolution external VGA monitor eeepc 900"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by magic-neophyte on 2008-11-23
How to get external display resolution working properly in Ubuntu 8.10 on eeepc

   1. I had some odd issues if both displays were connected at login prior to configuration. Login to your desktop without the external monitor connected. Connect the monitor after you’ve completely logged in.

   2. Connect the external monitor and generate a new default xorg.conf (sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg).

   3. Figure out the highest resolution you want between the two screens (1440×900+1024×600 = 2464×1500). Calculate based on what you have. In my case my external does 1440×900. I add that to the 1024×600 of the eeepc and get my total.

   4. Edit your xorg.conf file and add the line to the Section “Screen” > SubSection “Display” area. Add Virtual 2464 1500 (your resolution).

   5. Log out after saving the xorg.conf file (unplug the external monitor until after you’ve logged back in successfully)

   6. xrandr –output VGA –auto

   7. xrandr –output VGA –above LVDS

Adapted from some linux blog about Ubuntu on macbook that I cannot now find. Credit to that anonymous author.

---

### Post by kendase3 on 2009-04-12
Thanks for the helpful post!  If I could add a few simplifications, the only really necessary steps for most cases are to change the virtual display in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to the desired virtual display size, and then log out and log back in.  This'll restart X.  Also, for most cases you wouldn't want your virtual display to be twice as large as either screen in both height and width.  If you're going to have them side by side, just add the widths and use the larger of the two heights.  Conversely, if you're going to have them vertically set up, use the larger width and add the heights together.  Hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by chloraldo on 2009-06-04
> **magic-neophyte said:**
> 4. Edit your xorg.conf file and add the line to the Section “Screen” > SubSection “Display” area. Add Virtual 2464 1500 (your resolution).

How do I do this in Jaunty? I have this xorg.conf:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by chloraldo on 2009-06-04
It seems to work by just adding the subsection to the screen section.

But I think I have to unplug the monitor to reboot...

---

