---
title: "Intel graphics card HD 4600 not supported by Ubuntu 14.04"
date: 2014-10-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by marlar on 2014-10-14
I have just got a new PC with an Intel HD 4600 graphics card. However, the problem is that the latest Ubuntu (14.04) apparently does not support the graphics card - the screen resolution is only 1920 x 1200 where the monitor, a 27 "Samsung S27A850T, supports 2560 x 1440. And it looks terrible!

But if I boot up with Ubuntu 13.10 the graphics card is supported perfectly - it defaults to 2560 x 1440.

I have googled many hours to fix the problem, unfortunately without success. For instance, I tried to force the resolution with xrandr. 

I think that the solution must be to get the graphics driver from 13.10 installed in 14.04, but how to do I do that?

Why is the card not supported anymore, it is not an old card? It would make more sense if it was opposite, that is was only supported in a newer version.

I am very frustrated with this problem and I will be grateful for any help.

Thanks!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-10-14
Have you tried boot parameters on grub screen. You can test each of these when booting and if one works then make it permanent in /etc/default/grub.

       At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with one or more boot parameters.

    
 # Usually Intel works with one of these:
i915.modeset=0
i915.i915_enable_rc6=1
video=1280x1024-24@60  # but change to your monitor size  not 1280x1024
video=VGA-1:1280x1024-24@60  # but change to your monitor size
# Other settings in addition to above for other hardware related issues
acpi=0
acpi_osi=linux
acpi_backlight=vendor
noalpic

---

### Post by marlar on 2014-10-14
Thanks for the reply!

Are all these settings meant to be on the same line?

I mean, should quiet splash be replaced with eg. "i915.modeset=0 video=1280x1024-24@60 video=VGA-1:1280x1024-24@60" ?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-10-14
No, try each one separately. 

Although one user posted it tried many all at once and said it worked. But system must pick up first or last or something. I would think otherwise they would conflict.

---

### Post by Stormlord on 2014-10-16
Have you tried installing Intel's driver?  [https://01.org/linuxgraphics/downloads/2014/intelr-graphics-installer-1.0.6-linux](https://01.org/linuxgraphics/downloads/2014/intelr-graphics-installer-1.0.6-linux)
If you decide to give it a try, read the instructions, use the keys it says, and then install the installer.  Preferaby using gdebi because it asks for dependencies and gdebi will install them automatically.
Run the installer afterwards and it will update your system.

---

### Post by marlar on 2014-10-21
@Stormlord
Yes, I tried that to no avail

@oldfred:
I have now tried them all, still no luck :-(

If I use one of the i915 lines, X will not start up. The other options just don't make any visual change.

Should the word "vendor" be replaed with the actual vendor (Intel)? I just used the the word verdor.

I noticed this line in Xorg.0.log:
Modeline "2560x1440"x0.0  241.50  2560 2608 2640 2720  1440 1443 1448 1481 +hsync -vsync (88.8 kHz eP)

Don't know if means that it somehow recognizes the monitor's resolution?

You can see the complete log file her: [https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/4528748/Xorg.0.log](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/4528748/Xorg.0.log)

Does it give any clues?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-10-21
I think it is trying to find a correct setting. So it tests a variety of them.

That is why presetting the correct setting for video with one of the video= settings but using the exact size X by Y of your monitor is supposed to help.

How are you connecting to monitor? 
Some found different type of cable worked. Old VGA did not. Some had issues with second monitor and HDMI.

---

### Post by marlar on 2014-10-21
I finally solved it !!!

As noted in #0 I had already tried forcing the resoluton with xrandr, ie. adding the modes manually. I got the mode lines with **gtf** and **cvt**. They generated modelines such as:
```
"2560x1440_60.00"  311.83  2560 2744 3024 3488  1440 1441 1444 1490  -HSync +Vsync
```

Didn't work, tried a lot of combinations.

Then I got a thought after I posted my previous post. I mentioned the modeline found in Xorg.log: ```
[COLOR=#000000]"2560x1440"x0.0 241.50 2560 2608 2640 2720 1440 1443 1448 1481 +hsync -vsync[/COLOR]
```

That modeline differs from the ones generated by gtf and cvt. So I tried adding that specific mode with ```
xrandr --newmode  "2560x1440x0.0"  241.50  2560 2608 2640 2720  1440 1443 1448 1481 +hsync -vsync
``` --- and it worked! I could select the correct 2560 x 1440 resolution :p

Now I just need to make the change permanent by adding an Xorg.cnf.

Or, perhaps I could use the grub options if I edit the video line? Before, I tried with **[COLOR=#000000]video=2560x1440-24@60[/COLOR]**[COLOR=#000000]. How should it look like to reflect the new mode I succeded with?

Anyway, thanks for your help that afterall pointed me in the right direction.

EDIT: It's connected via HDMI. Only one monitor.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-10-21
If you want that as a permanent grub setting add after quiet splash:

 gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#A.2BAC8-etc.2BAC8-default.2BAC8-grub_.28file.29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#A.2BAC8-etc.2BAC8-default.2BAC8-grub_.28file.29)
GRUB_CMD_LINUX


[LIST]
[*]Entries on this  are added to the end of the 'linux' command  (GRUB legacy's "kernel" ) for both normal and recovery modes. It is used to pass options to the kernel.
[/LIST]
 GRUB_CMD_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

[LIST]
[*]This  imports any entries to the end of the 'linux'  (GRUB legacy's "kernel" ). The entries are appended to the end of the normal mode only.
[/LIST]
        o To view a black screen with boot processes displayed in text, remove "quiet splash". To see the grub splash image plus a condensed text output, use "splash". 

After any grub edit you need to run this to add it to menu.

sudo update-grub

---

