---
title: "82815 Chipset Graphics Controller issue (SRX99 Sony)"
date: 2009-01-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ulugeyik on 2009-01-15
I have an old SRX99 Sony Vaio laptop. I used to use various forms of linux on that and today I decided to install Ubuntu Intrepid - fluxbuntu was working fine. However, with the latest stuff about xorg.conf being so "empty" I can't get the display to fill the whole screen. I get a nice display but only at the center. I always had this problem which was resolved by installing i810 (now replaced by "intel") driver and doing minor edits to XF86Config or xorg.conf  but those edits do not work on intrepid. My xorg.conf is now the standard one with essentially no unusual entries (see below).

any suggestions?

here is output of "lshw -class display"

 *-display UNCLAIMED
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 82815 Chipset Graphics Controller (CGC)
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 11
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier      "Default Screen"
	Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
	Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by ulugeyik on 2009-01-25
Hi,

Any one has any ideas? I would appreciate it a lot.

---

### Post by ulugeyik on 2009-01-25
Hi,

Any one has any ideas? I would appreciate it a lot.

---

### Post by chrisolof on 2009-05-09
Wow someone else with an SRX-99!  I love mine - it's like a netbook from back before there were netbooks!  Anyway it's a great little machine and I've been using mine with Ubuntu for years now.

I just did a fresh install of Jaunty (9.04) and had the same issue where only a sub-section of the full screen displays and does so at a resolution of 800x600.  That issue has been around for quite a while now (not just this version of Ubuntu).  To fix it here's what I did:

[LIST=1]
[*]Open up your xorg.conf file by opening up a terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal) and typing this:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

[*]Replace what's inside your xorg.conf with the following:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync	31-60
	VertRefresh	60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection	"Display"
	Depth		16
	Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection	"Display"
	Depth		24
	Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Please note that I do not know the correct Horizontal Sync settings for the little LCD screen on this computer - so that range of 31-60 might be inaccurate - but 31 seems to be a common low-end value for LCDs and I don't think this screen can do anything over 60 so that's why I've got it topping out at 60.  If anyone has correct values for this setting please do post.  Long story short this works fine though.


[*]Save the file and log out.  When you're presented with the login screen it should now fill the whole screen.  Log in.


[*]Once you're at your desktop things may look a bit strange because Ubuntu is trying to use Desktop Effects (cool eh? except it doesn't really work well with this intel chip).  Make your way to System->Preferences->Appearance and select "None" under the Visual Effects tab.
[/LIST]

And that's it!  You should now be running at 1024x768 full-screen with direct rendering.  If you don't care about direct rendering (you don't use 3d-intensive applications) and want more colors then change DefaultDepth from 16 to 24.

---

### Post by ulugeyik on 2009-06-19
Hi Chris.

I did not see your message until this moment. It works very well. Indeed, this little computer works nicely and it was a netbook before the fashion came about. Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by craigchambers on 2009-06-25
Yay!  I'd also like to thank Chris for this.  I have been using one of these at work for many years as a test laptop, and have just installed Jaunty.  I was ready to give up on this after having spent about 6 hours failing, but now I have a fullscreen display.

Once again thanks, and thanks to the OP too!

/craig

---

