---
title: "11.04 Speakers Play With Headphones Plugged In"
date: 2011-06-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nine9nine on 2011-06-18
Hi everyone.  I have Ubuntu 11.04 installed on my Toshiba Satellite C655 laptop.  I am dualbooting with Windows 7.  In Windows, the headphones and speakers work normally.  In Ubuntu, however, when I plug the headphones in, the speakers play along with the headphones.  I've searched a lot on Google, and the only solutions I could find were for earlier versions, or specific to a certain model.  

Please help me.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-06-18
Just because the solutions were for earlier versions doesn't mean they are obsolete. Ubuntu releases are only six months separated.

Try this using a Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
```
echo "options snd-hda-intel model=ideapad" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
``` **Reboot**

---

### Post by nine9nine on 2011-06-19
OK.  I tried your code and got this:

```
colin@TheDarkSideOfTheMoon:~$ echo "options snd-hda-intel model=ideapad" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
[sudo] password for colin: 
options snd-hda-intel model=ideapad

```

I'll post what happens when I reboot my computer.

---

### Post by nine9nine on 2011-06-19
I rebooted and nothing happened.  What else should I try?

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-06-19
Try toggling the connector in sound preferences, on the output tab.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-06-19
Duplicate.

---

### Post by nine9nine on 2011-06-21
I don't have that option.  I'm going to try a fresh install so that I can use the new kernel, which I found something for.

---

### Post by nine9nine on 2011-06-22
I haven't done the reinstall yet.  Should I install 64-bit, or 32?  My processor (Intel Celeron) is 64, but the Ubuntu website ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/32bit_and_64bit)) says that my processor isn't supported for 64-bit. That shouldn't make a difference, should it?

---

### Post by nine9nine on 2011-06-24
I ended up installing Linux Mint 11.  The headphones worked right out of the box.  Thanks for everyone who offered suggestions, though!

---

