---
title: "8.10 and Radeon 9200 dual-head problem"
date: 2009-02-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by domiflichi on 2009-02-04
Hi,
I'm having problems getting my dual-head monitors to work (I'll explain what I mean after I give some more info)

I've just installed Ubuntu 8.10. When I run:
```
lspci -nn | grep VGA
```
I get:
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 SE] [1002:5964] (rev 01)
```
Going through the instructions [found here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver"), I think that I have the correct drivers installed (I didn't do anything special, I guess the Ubuntu installation did it automatically) correctly. Because I ran the following command: (which it says to in that document)
```
glxinfo | grep vendor
```
and I get:
```
server glx vendor string: SGI
client glx vendor string: SGI
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa Project
```
And when I run:
```
glxinfo | grep "direct rendering"
```
I get:
```
direct rendering: Yes
```

Contents of my xorg.conf file:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

No for my 'problem':
What's happening is that my monitors seem to be stuck in 'mirror mode'. I went into the 'Screen Resolution' program and unchecked the 'Mirror Screens' button, hit 'Apply', and rebooted, but they are still mirroring each other. I want to be able to drag windows from one monitor to the next like I was able to in Ubuntu 7.04. I remember having to edit my xorg.conf file (back when I installed ubuntu 7.04 a while back to get it to work), but I notice that in the comments of it now ( 8.10 ) it talks about settings being ignored in the file.

(I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 8.10, and my computer's hardware is exactly the same as it was when it had 7.04 except I have more memory, and a larger hard drive - the graphics card is the same as it was before)

What can I do to fix this?

Thanks.

---

### Post by domiflichi on 2009-02-07
Did I ask a dumb question? ^

---

