---
title: "10.04 wifi not working on eee pc 900"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by markp1989 on 2010-05-01
just been giving 10.04 a test on my desktop, and i love it so far, and want to install it on my laptop so i  can use ubuntu one.

i have been running from a live usb to test it out on the eee pc before i install it , and the wifi doesnt work.

it finds networks, but it just wont connect.

any work around? or any others with this problem?

as i dont wana install it on the eee pc without functioning wifi

---

### Post by hojjan on 2010-05-01
My Eee PC 900 (16GB version) works flawlessly with Ubuntu Netbook Remix 10.04.

I don't know exactly what packages make the difference, but perhaps you should check it out.

---

### Post by markp1989 on 2010-05-12
i have tried ubuntu 10.04 on 2 laptops now,

on my friends laptop, it connected to his home wifi ok, but would fail with mine, i think his access point is  using wep. 

mine is wpa personal, TKIP+AES. i tried changing wpa algorithm to AES on its own, and it worked, so it seems its a problem with TKIP

some wireless accesspoints that i cannot change  my self uses TKIP, which i currently cannot connect to to change.

any ideas how to sort this out? or other people with similar problems?

thanks, mark

---

### Post by xela74 on 2010-05-19
I have the same issue.
With ubuntu 9.04 wifi works fine but with 10.04 I can see my network but I can't connect to it.

After a search on google, it seems that a lot of people have the same issue.

---

### Post by rp3 on 2010-05-19
> **xela74 said:**
> I have the same issue.
With ubuntu 9.04 wifi works fine but with 10.04 I can see my network but I can't connect to it.

After a search on google, it seems that a lot of people have the same issue.

Same type of issue here, upgrade my Toshiba A305 to 10.04 and wireless works fine.  Upgraded an older Dell C400 to 10.04 and wireless (which worked fine in 9.XX) as I did the upgrade over wireless.

Now I can't get wireless to work on the Dell, setup exactly like the Toshiba, I keep getting the Key request????

Hmmmm

---

### Post by xela74 on 2010-05-19
:(

And I don't have wired connection, because I'm sharing the wifi with my neighbour and I don't want to spend all day long at his place. So without a connection it's difficult to download a patch or whatever.

I don't know if the issue if from the network manager or from the driver.
It seems that it's not the driver (I guess we don't have the same network interface - mine is a realtek rt2860).

I'll try to find if it's a known bug or not.

---

### Post by mbching on 2010-05-29
indeed it works on my eeepc 900, partially, with a trick.

first off, i am noob ubuntu user, i have just install the 
ubuntu 10.04 netbook remix version for my eeepc 900
the wireless was turned out fine in the fresh installation.

however, it doesn't work after i restart from the software update.

i've checked bios setting, tried fn+f2 key, the wireless blue led light is on, but i just cant' get back to my wireless connection

so, what i do is
logoff from ubuntu
turnoff the wireless by fn+f2
login again

da da

the wireless connection is working again.
i don't know.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-30
eee pc thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466205]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466205")

---

### Post by mbching on 2010-05-31
> **lidex said:**
> eee pc thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466205]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466205")

this thread is not relevant to eeepc 900

---

