---
title: "HP  Compaq nc8000 - severe graphics problems"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Skios on 2009-04-25
[[IMG]http://img212.imageshack.us/img212/8884/screenshot2m.th.png[/IMG]](http://img212.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshot2m.png)

This is what my screen looks like. I've been having this problem for several weeks now but never really bothered to do anything about it. However when I updated from 8.10 o 9.04, the problem suddenly got a lot more severe. This is what it looked like under 8.10:

[[IMG]http://img13.imageshack.us/img13/8882/screenshotkth.th.png[/IMG]](http://img13.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotkth.png)

The red stuff on the shutdown window was just something that happened when you dragged a window around. For some reason that doesn't happen anymore. The problem looks exactly the same when I plug in an external monitor.

[QUOTE="lspci | grep VGA"]01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV350 [Mobility Radeon 9600 M10][/QUOTE][QUOTE="xorg.conf"]
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/quote]

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-04-25
What driver is being used? You can find the driver with "lshw -C video" in a terminal.

---

### Post by Skios on 2009-04-25
Doing that in the terminal gives me:>   *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: RV350 [Mobility Radeon 9600 M10]
       vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 00
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: agp agp-2.0 pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=64 mingnt=8


---

### Post by luig1 on 2009-04-25
Unclaimed means that there is no driver installed for it and it is probably using a generic driver. Give me a few minutes and I try to find one for you and instructions on how to install it. Another question, is that computer currently running another OS like Vista or XP?

Edit: 

I did a little research and [here]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.2&product=2.4.2.3.1&lang=English") is the driver you need for that card.

---

### Post by Skios on 2009-04-25
Thanks, but I'm afraid I've run into another problem. After downloading the file and trying to install it through the instructions provided on that site, I get the following error:> jasper@jasper-laptop:~/Desktop$ sh ./ati-driver-installer-9-3-x86.x86_64.run
Created directory fglrx-install.uUiQhZ
Verifying archive integrity... All good.
Uncompressing ATI Proprietary Linux Driver-8.593...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
==================================================
 ATI Technologies Linux Driver Installer/Packager 
==================================================

Error: ./default_policy.sh does not support version
default:v2:i686:lib::none:2.6.28-11-generic; make sure that the version is being
correctly set by --iscurrentdistro

Removing temporary directory: fglrx-install.uUiQhZ

---

### Post by luig1 on 2009-04-25
Ok you should use sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-9-3-x86.x86_64.run. sudo is the equivelent to administrator rights on windows. Also make sure you have all the Pre requesties it asks for which are: XFree86-Mesa-libGL, libstdc++, libgcc, XFree86-libs, fontconfig, freetype, zlib, gcc. Also make sure you have your ubuntu up-to-date. Go to System -> Administration -> Update Manager. Tell me what comes up after you make sure of all that.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-04-26
You can't use that driver (Catalyst 9.3) in Ubuntu 9.04, it does not support X server 1.6 and will probably crash your display. You must use Catalyst 9.4 or - if your card isn't supported any longer - the older open source ati or radeon drivers.

---

