---
title: "10.04 not recognizing cd drives and second hard drive"
date: 2010-05-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Randy Schilling on 2010-05-22
Yesterday I upgraded from 8.04 and 10.04.
    My system has two hard drives and two cd/dvd drives.    
    Windows is installed on the master (sda) hard drive and Ubuntu on the other (sdb) drive.

    8.04 recognized all of them.  Not so with 10.04. Here's what I mean.
    I was able to access Windows files with the 8.04 os.  Not so with 10.04.
    I was able to mount and burn files for backup purposes using a terminal in 8.04.  Not so with 10.04.
    10.04's response to both commands "mount /media/cdrom0" and "mount /media/cdrom1" 
    is "no medium found on /dev/sr0" (or /dev/sr1 respectively).
    "Write to disk" was an  option under the menu obtained by rclicking the desktop icon of a .iso file;
    with this option you could burn the .iso file to a cd.  
    The option is not present, not even grayed out, with 10.04.

    I'm a novice at Linux so I'm not sure what you need to know to help me.  
    Here are a few points that seem to me to be possibly relevant to my problem.

    Disk Utility informs me that the file system on (sdb) is ext3.
    This surprised me (It came about by no choice that I made during installation or otherwise.)
    because, according to the release notes,
    the default file system for installations of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS is ext4.
    Secondly, Disk Utility reports "-" (a dash) for sda's file system; I expected to see Windows there.
    Lastly, Disk Utility reports "No Media Detected" for both cd/dvd drives.

    The installation of 10.04 did not go easy for me (due to my own mistake) and I lost some data.  
    Thankfully,    I had everything backed up to cds.   
    The cd drives being down, I'm unable to restore these cds and this is really about the only obstacle 
    keeping from running at full throttle under 10.04.  I do a lot of writing with TeX and I need to restore
    my old .tex files in order to be happy.

    Any help  you can give me will be most graciously appreciated. 
    Thanks and Regards - Randy (rchilling@comcast.net)

---

### Post by QuickFinder on 2010-06-16
Same problem here with Dell XPS 600. I have two CD/DVD drives and two hard drives and Ubuntu 10.04 isn't seeing what's in the CD drives.

---

