---
title: "MSI x320"
date: 2009-11-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by yoshiki2 on 2009-11-09
Any problems with this laptop?

---

### Post by impact on 2009-11-22
Anybody has one?

---

### Post by FuturDreamz on 2009-11-22
I do, But I haven't tried Linux on it yet (Just Win7 90-day trial which it runs fine)
Here's a link to somebody who's tried:
[http://wolfs-ubuntu.blogspot.com/2009/06/msi-x320-graphics-installation.html](http://wolfs-ubuntu.blogspot.com/2009/06/msi-x320-graphics-installation.html)
If my Upgrade Option for this computer does not go through, I'll try this but until then I'll wait until confirmation that somebody managed to get everything working.

---

### Post by FuturDreamz on 2009-11-27
[Here's](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1218679&highlight=msi+x320) a link to the MSI X340 install guide. 
they're not identical (see lower half of pic) but maybe similar enough.:
[img]http://www.blogcdn.com/www.engadget.com/media/2009/03/msi-wind-xslim-specs.jpg[/img]

---

### Post by aivazovsky on 2009-12-20
Hi, all... few days ago i bought a MSI X320 ultra slim netbook with installed Windows Vista, and i have a problem with watching movies in full screen, when i watch not in a full screen everything is ok, but when i put it on full screen it's running slow, and with interupted sound on some movies especially when i click on the right button for options, then it goes really slow. I downloaded also BS player, GOM player, used windows media player, downloaded vista codec packages, klite codecs (not in the same time), xvid codec, and that helped a little, but in the general the problem was still there, also tried to downloaded new graphic drivers (with no help because i have the newest drivers), tried to change resolution on BS player as well and still nothing?! I thought it's vista and i wanted to put XP on my x320, but before i decide to do that i wonder is there someone who has the same problem or who can help me! Plz

---

### Post by kelpers1483 on 2009-12-24
Hi, I have the x320 running karmic at the moment.  The only thing that works out of the box is the sound (but stops after 1.5 minutes), bluetooth, and ethernet.  I was able to get it running at the correct resolution and the wifi without much hassle at all.  Suspend does not work but hibernate does.  Going in hibernate takes about 2 minutes while waking up takes about 30-45 sec.  Moving windows like firefox looks kinda chopy and videos played on anything but youtube are more like slideshows.

---

### Post by impact on 2009-12-25
> **aivazovsky said:**
> Hi, all... few days ago i bought a MSI X320 ultra slim netbook with installed Windows Vista, and i have a problem with watching movies in full screen, when i watch not in a full screen everything is ok, but when i put it on full screen it's running slow, and with interupted sound on some movies especially when i click on the right button for options, then it goes really slow. I downloaded also BS player, GOM player, used windows media player, downloaded vista codec packages, klite codecs (not in the same time), xvid codec, and that helped a little, but in the general the problem was still there, also tried to downloaded new graphic drivers (with no help because i have the newest drivers), tried to change resolution on BS player as well and still nothing?! I thought it's vista and i wanted to put XP on my x320, but before i decide to do that i wonder is there someone who has the same problem or who can help me! Plz

I think that just because it's a slow netbook. You cannot really expect it to play fullscreen video smoothly, you'd need an ION equipped netbook for that.

---

### Post by giantgreengoat on 2011-05-21
I picked up the uber thin MSI x320 the other day and it is a really nice machine. However, it came with Vista, not good. So, I popped in Natty and attempted an install. Froze. Froze. Froze. I found that I had to add pci=nomsiAppend to the boot script. Worked, but only with Meerkat. Booted. Attempted to install: FAIL. Froze on creating partitions in the install process. I think all of this has to do with the SATA interface. All derivatives, Mint included, of Natty fail at boot regardless of script addition. Errors during boot and hangs. Right now I am getting an ISO of: PCLinuxOS and OpenSuse (Gnome and KDE). Not that the GUI makes a difference since it seems to be a kernel issue. 

Got PCLinuxOS to boot and loaded Gparted as root. Wiped the drive and attempted an install. Started, but froze as the files were copying over. I think my issue may lie in faulty equipment.


Maye it is has something to do with the drive being scsi 3. Maybe I have to do something different to load/set scsi parameters for successfully reading the drive?


This machine is a puzzle.

---

### Post by zamboozle on 2011-06-23
> **giantgreengoat said:**
> I picked up the uber thin MSI x320 the other day and it is a really nice machine. However, it came with Vista, not good. So, I popped in Natty and attempted an install. Froze. Froze. Froze. I found that I had to add pci=nomsiAppend to the boot script. Worked, but only with Meerkat. Booted. Attempted to install: FAIL. Froze on creating partitions in the install process. I think all of this has to do with the SATA interface. All derivatives, Mint included, of Natty fail at boot regardless of script addition. Errors during boot and hangs. Right now I am getting an ISO of: PCLinuxOS and OpenSuse (Gnome and KDE). Not that the GUI makes a difference since it seems to be a kernel issue. 

Got PCLinuxOS to boot and loaded Gparted as root. Wiped the drive and attempted an install. Started, but froze as the files were copying over. I think my issue may lie in faulty equipment.


Maye it is has something to do with the drive being scsi 3. Maybe I have to do something different to load/set scsi parameters for successfully reading the drive?


This machine is a puzzle.
Hi, I know its been a while since you posted about installing ubuntu on the x320. I'm having the same issues with it freezing and hanging and getting stuck. Did you end up finding any solutions?

---

