---
title: "14.04 LTS: USB 3.0 not working or low output"
date: 2014-12-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2014-12-04
I have a problem with my laptop. My two USB 3.0 suddenly stopped to work.


  Maybe you need to know:
  My Laptop has 2*USB 2.0 and 2*USB 3.0. One of the USB 2.0 is defect,  idk why, it doesn't work under Windows either. The two 3.0 Ports 
work  under Windows (they charge my Phone and I can connect my mouse & USB  stick to them). The 2.0 port works fine, too.  In Ubuntu, 
the 2.0 port works excellent, too. But the 3.0 Ports don't.  Whenever I plug in my Phone, it says that it's charging, but it doesn't  
detect that it's connect to a Laptop/PC (No USB Debugging icon and no  option to enable mass storage). When i plug my mouse in 
one of the 3.0  ports, the laser (or whatever it is) on the bottom of the mouse  flickers, but it doesn't work. When i plug in an USB, it 
doesn't  connect.

Output of ```
lsusb
``` with my ext HDD plugged in a 3.0 port:

```
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 8087:07da Intel Corp. 
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 04f2:b2bb Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd 
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
```

Output of ```
lsusb
``` with my ext HDD plugged in the working 2.0 port:

```
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 8087:07da Intel Corp. 
Bus 001 Device 007: ID 0480:a207 Toshiba America Info. Systems, Inc. 
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 04f2:b2bb Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd 
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
```

I'm totally lost. Please help.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-12-04
There are sometimes reports of USB ports not working in 14.04. How does it behave in a live boot of 14.10?

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2014-12-05
> **mörgæs said:**
> There are sometimes reports of USB ports not working in 14.04. How does it behave in a live boot of 14.10?

I only download the LTS releases and Software updates because my internet connection is very, very, slow. But I installed the latest kernel in 14.04 and did all system uppdates. But if you think it makes a difference, i will download 14.10.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-12-05
If the download size is a problem you could also try Lubuntu 14.10, which is much smaller than Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2014-12-05
> **mörgæs said:**
> If the download size is a problem you could also try Lubuntu 14.10, which is much smaller than Ubuntu.

Good idea. Will try it asap

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2014-12-05
Okay, tried it and it didn't work. Same as in 14.04.

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2014-12-06
> **mörgæs said:**
> If the download size is a problem you could also try Lubuntu 14.10, which is much smaller than Ubuntu.

Any other idea?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-12-06
Not from my side, sorry.

---

### Post by tarmac515 on 2015-01-09
Hi lorenz, did you find a solution to this?

My 14.04 build used to be find, then after an update I now longer have access to the USB 3 ports?


```
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 413c:2107 Dell Computer Corp. 
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 045e:00d1 Microsoft Corp. Optical Mouse with Tilt Wheel
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
```

Above is with a usb3 stick plugged in - there is power as the usb extension is illuminated and there is a static activity light on the usb stick. I happen to have two usb3 desktop extensions are both are now longer working...

any ideas?

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2015-01-10
Hey tarmac,
no I didn't. But I have to say that I switched to Windows 8 afterwards because all my data is on my external HDD and I want to use a mouse and the HDD at the same time. But it's kinda nice to see that I'm not the only one having troubles with it. My Linux partition still exists, so we can work together on a solution :)

To your post:
- How many USB 3.0/2.0 ports do you have?
- From what version did you update?
- Which Laptop do you use?

---

### Post by tarmac515 on 2015-01-10
Hi Lorenz,

thanks for your post, ah OK back to the dark side then.  TBH I haven't had many problems on this machine except printer setup hassle (now solved) and this USB3 stuff. However on an AMD build I had an absolute nightmare trying to get it set-up, luckily it isnt my main machine so it wasn't really an issue just an irritation. But now on the main machine without usb 3 is a getting annoying.

anyhow spec - self build B85 gigabyte m'board, pentium dual core 2.8 cpu (cheap but surprisingly OK), 2 rear USB3 ports - neither working but both getting power. What this forum really needs is a "wikipedia" of problems and solutions and there are loads of threads that never get any answers,

Anyhow, thanks again

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2015-01-10
Maybe the USB ports DO work, but they have just a very low output but enough to make the status LED light up. I experienced the same with my raspberry pi. When only my HDD was plugged into the pi, it's LED was blue (means it is mounted) but when the HDD and a WiFi adapter were plugged into the pi, the LED was white (means it has power but is not in use/mounted). So i think that the Pi doesn't have enough power to supply both devices. So I think it's kinda the same with our problem.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-01-10
If it's also a problem in 15.04 (development) you could open a bug report.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-01-10
Maybe this page (and links from it) can help you find what you need.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CommunityHelpWiki](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CommunityHelpWiki)

Otherwise we can hope that you will get direct help at this thread in the Ubuntu Forums.

There are ***sticky threads*** in the [subforums]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forum.php") and a [***tutorial forum***]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=100").

-o-

The particular problems with USB 3 is probably less known than many other problems, partly because the technology (hardware and firmware) is rather new and maybe not yet debugged enough to follow the standards. So it can be difficult to make it work without a direct input from the manufacturers (which are mainly interested in the commercial operating systems Windows and MacOS).

You may have better luck with the bleeding edge version of Ubuntu, in this case the version being developed right now, ***Vivid Vervet***, to be released in April as Ubuntu 15.04. You can become a (more or less temporary) tester. See this link

[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/](http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2015-01-11
Hey,
I've tried it today with Lubuntu 15.04 (Live USB) and it didn't work either.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-01-11
There seems to be no linux driver for that particular USB 3 system. Have you checked if there is some particular UEFI/BIOS software or firmware for USB or similar, that can be upgraded to a new version? Or have you tried different settings in the UEFI/BIOS menu system?

If you want fast external drives, an alternative is eSATA, which is straight-forward to install in desktop computers and workstations, but not easy if not already built into a laptop.

(In my family we have eSATA in middle-aged laptops and USB 3 in a newer Toshiba laptop, and all these connections work like they should with Ubuntu.)

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2015-01-11
It's weird because with Ubuntu 13.04 it worked everything. After Upgrade to 14.04 (or before, I didn't use the USB's for a long time) it stopped working. But when I now go back to 13.04 it doesn't work again. Weird. Also when I plug the bootable USB in 1 of my 3.0 ports, I can boot from it until it says "no bootbale medium found", then it opens a busybox console.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-01-11
I'm sorry, I have no other idea what to look for. Let us hope someone with more experience of USB 3 systems will see this thread and help you.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-01-11
If a bug report for 15.04 has been created please link to it.

---

### Post by tarmac515 on 2015-01-11
[COLOR=#000000]Lorenz_ - thanks for your message, i'm not sure what happened but now both of my usb3 sockets are working perfectly. I did install some standard ubuntu updates earlier today - not sure if that had any impact. Very strange as the PC is shut down nightly and the problem reappeared everyday for a week or so and nothing else has been done to the system except these updates.

[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]sudodus - thanks very much for the wiki link some useful info there[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]So I am now hoping that this is fixed permanently - never had this issue before and have been running ubuntu on since 12.04/10.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Thanks again,[/COLOR]

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-01-12
You are welcome [tarmac515]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1247142"), and congratulations that your USB 3 system is working again :KS

---

### Post by bcschmerker on 2015-01-12
Thanks for this example of troubleshooting USB 3.0.  I am currently considering a fresh rebuild of my own LinUX box around an ASRock® Z68 Pro-3M, Intel® Core Processor™ i5-2600 or i7-2700 Series (FCLGA 1155), a yet-to-be-determined 4x4GiB pack of DDR3-1600 UDIMMs (Intel documentation states that the 2nd-Gen Core *will* support unregistered ECC), and up to four Western Digital® WD7500BFCX SATA HDDs.  The Pro-3M's chipset packs planar USB 2.0, but I am also considering adding USB 3.0.  Anybody have success with a PCIe USB 3.0 card under Ubuntu® 12.04.6-LTS or 14.04.2-LTS; and if so, which make and model?  (I'm planning on re-using a Creative Laboratories® SB0350 PCI 2.2 audio card, which has a slot for it on the Z68 Pro-3M.)

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2015-01-16
Okay, I kinda figured something out. Because I only have one USB Plug in Linux, I use a USB hub (with 3 USB ports). In Linux i could easily plug my mouse, an USB stick and my smartphone into it and the Laptop detected all devices. But then I rebooted into Windows (the devices were still plugged into the hub) and suddenly none of the devices worked anymore. I needed to plug out USb and Phone to use the mouse. 

What I think it means:
Windows has the same output as Linux, but on all 3 USB ports. Linux has the same output as Windows but only at **one** USB port, so I am able to plug more than 1 device into it.

---

### Post by GailHard on 2015-08-16
Can you post what updates you have installed? Could help us.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2015-08-17
> **bcschmerker said:**
> The Pro-3M's chipset packs planar USB 2.0, but I am also considering adding USB 3.0.  Anybody have success with a PCIe USB 3.0 card under Ubuntu® 12.04.6-LTS or 14.04.2-LTS; and if so, which make and model?

Hiya.

I added a PCI-e USB 3.0 expansion card back in late December/early January. The model that I use under Xubuntu 14.04.2 LTS is this one:-

[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=0X6-004Z-00004](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=0X6-004Z-00004)

The Transcend TS-PDU3 2-port card. Works perfectly, and was very easy to fit; just push into a PCI-e x 1 slot, connect up an extension Molex 4-pin power connector lead, and that was that. I have a Seagate external portable HDD that is USB 3.0 standard, and wanted to be able to transfer data a wee bit faster than USB 2.0 would allow, as I regularly transfer some pretty large files, often in excess of 2 GB+. 

Hope that helps.


Regards,

Mike. ;)

---

### Post by Lorenz_ on 2015-08-18
For me, it was a hardware problem. I had to repair my laptop because the graphics card broke, but the whole Mainboard had to be replaced. Now everything works fine again. Thanks for your help!

---

