---
title: "12.04 won't load after restart"
date: 2012-06-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Fpetrick on 2012-06-24
I finally managed to install 12.04 on my laptop (packard bell easynote SB85) 4-5 days ago.
I restarted the system for some updates to take effect but Ubuntu doesn't load after that.

I've tried Boot Repair Disk, made no difference.

I've tried booting with "nomodeset" and "--verbose text", still received the same error.

I get a black/purple screen when I load ubuntu, but when I select recovery mode I get an error (shown in picture).

I am able to install 11.10 and run without any problems. 

I'm also not able to install and/run OpenSuse 12.1 and Fedora 17.

What could possibly be the problem and is there a way to fix this?

[IMG]http://i48.tinypic.com/28upbux.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-06-26
Hello
First install 12.04 without applying any update.
Then connect internet, update your packages:
sudo apt-get update

Then update your packages one-by-one until you detect which update causes the problem.

I recommend you start by updating you kernel:
sudo apt-get install linux

Then reboot and check if you can still access Ubuntu. 
- If not, that means that the last kernel is not compatible with your system, so at the GRUB menu you need to select an older kernel.
- If yes, continue updating your packages one-by-one and reboot each time to check (may be long).

---

### Post by gluppy on 2012-10-02
Hi, I get the same error (also with 12.04 on an EasyNote SB85).

Did you figure out what was causing the problem ?

---

