---
title: "9.10 won't boot without charger plugged in"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Hb_Kai on 2009-11-16
Hey,
ever since I upgraded Ubuntu to 9.10 my Toshiba Satellite L30-101 laptop won't boot properly. It gets to that black screen with the Ubuntu logo but the boot will do nothing but hang from there and I am made to switch the laptop off by the main power button then reboot with the charger plugged in.

Does anyone know what this is?
At first I thought it could be a hard drive or battery problem but this never happened with Jaunty Jackalope so I've got no idea.

Thanks

---

### Post by jack0w on 2009-12-06
My girlfriend has the same problem on her laptop.  Same laptop model too.  Interestingly though I have installed 9.04 without any such issue.  

So currently she's stuck on 9.04, does anyone have any ideas of what I could try to resolve this?

---

### Post by Rinzwind on 2009-12-06
Check the logfiles for errors.

menu: system/admin/log file viewer
of from cmd:
cd /var/log
grep {searchitem} boot.log

I hope there is something in there.

---

### Post by jack0w on 2009-12-06
Thanks Rinzwind I'll give that a try.

I've just found this on launchpad - [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/447104/](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/447104/)

Looks like its a known bug... does anyone know what the procedure is once its been acknowledged as a bug?

---

### Post by Rinzwind on 2009-12-06
Another tip: (I had to try it before i'd share it ;) )

When it crashes do a control-alt-F8.

Mine shows a lot of messages of files that are started. Might be worth a shot. Oh and control-alt-F7 gets you back to gnome ;)

edit: sorry launchpad errors handling are not my cup of tea :)

---

### Post by jack0w on 2009-12-09
I've tried your suggestions although without any success :(

The boot log is empty (despite following instructions to enable it)

The trick with the Ctrl+Alt+F8 doesn't seem to work for me.  When it has frozen and I try to do this nothing happens.

Does any have any other suggestions?

---

