---
title: "10.04 nvidia driver works, but breaks other things"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by derpderpderp on 2010-05-04
With a clean install of i386 10.04, everything works as expected and nouveau does nice things with my nvidia GTX 260.
After I enable the proprietary nvidia driver using the hardware drivers tool and reboot, several things change.

Good Things:

[LIST]
[*]3D acceleration works. :D
[/LIST]
Bad Things:

[LIST]
[*]No sound at the login screen.
[*]No sound once logged in (no devices listed in sound preferences).
[*]External USB drives don't automount. Attempting to mount in nautilus results in an error along the lines of "Unable to mount <name> NOT AUTHORIZED". Manually mounting is fine.
[*]Attempting to restart while logged in just kicks me out to the login screen.
[*]Attempting to restart after being kicked out to the login screen does nothing.
[*]Attempting to switch to a virtual terminal while at the login screen does nothing.
[*]Several actions which would normally ask for authentication do nothing (clicking Advanced Settings in the Users and Groups tool is one example), but *not all of them*.
[/LIST]
In addition, nvidia-detector always returns "none".

If I disable the nvidia driver and reboot, everything works again (but I'm stuck with nouveau). I can enable, reboot, disable, reboot and reproduce this problem repeatedly.

I had none of these problems in 9.10.

---

### Post by jpwirtz on 2010-05-07
I have an nvidia gtx 280 and I have the exact same problem.  When the nvidia driver is enabled I can't reboot or shutdown and my usb headphones aren't detected.  If i turn the nvidia driver off and reboot everything works fine.

---

### Post by Lurkos on 2010-05-07
I don't have the same issues 8600M GT, but I can confirm that the proprietary drivers break different things, including:
+ framebuffer full resolution (tty1-6 fell back to 640x480);
+ restore screen brighthness after suspend to ram to the previous value.
I'll write here if I find more issues.

---

### Post by fordern on 2010-06-15
I have the same issues with an Asus EN8500 GT when activating the current NVidia graphics driver, 174? in 10.04

I get the not authorized to eSata, USB, DVD Drive and 2nd disk in the box.
Also will not shut down from icon or command line.
Version 173 seems to work some of the time but removing the NVidia drivers altogether removes all the problem.

I don't remember the driver number when I ran 9.10 but never had any problems.

Hardware is a shuttle SN78SH7.

I hope NVidea can fix this

---

### Post by andyvy on 2010-08-29
Was there a fix found for any of this? Last post is couple months back and I'm not having much luck googling anything positive.

I've installed the (Current Version) nvidia driver and my TTY1 resolution dropped to 640x480 after reboot. That is THE only issue I'm having, any ideas how to set it back to 1680x1050? 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Mtl_Mike on 2010-09-10
Just to add I am also with same situation:

Clevo D900F, 10.04 64 bit. NVidia 280M.

Thanks

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-09-10
> **Mtl_Mike said:**
> Just to add I am also with same situation:

Clevo D900F, 10.04 64 bit. NVidia 280M.

Thanks

which nvidia driver version do you use?

...and welcome!

---

### Post by AlexZaim on 2010-09-10
Either install an older driver (Sys>admin>hardware drivers) or try the latest (xxx.53++) (nvidia-installer --update)

---

