---
title: "Thumbs.db: encryptable and goodbye to Ubuntu?"
date: 2009-01-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Pierpaolo Cellini on 2009-01-01
Some application, that I was not able to identify, insert images in folders with these files empty, in the name similar to those that contain thumbnails of images, but that, using the illegal character ":" make it impossible to windows normal operations files and folders that contain them.

Not talking about Thumbs.db, that are the usual hidden files, that contain the database anteprime "thumbs", but about other files generated by any of the graphics programs based on Ubuntu or perhaps by nautilus itself, when it generates the thumbnails.
Opening folders that contain images, and where there is also a legal file Thumbs.db it produce a file with the new twin exact name of the ads "alternate data streams" contained in all Thumbs.db and exactly  Thumbs.db: encryptable that does not contain appropriate data, so it's always just empty, but they had a colon ":" that it is notoriusly illegal for a file name in ntfs.

This problem occurs with tune2fs-o journal_data_writeback almost constantly
                     and tune2fs-o journal_data
                      or tune2fs-o journal_data_ordered   impredictable randomly
 
These files become visible only after the restart.
Anyone can make an honest proof of what I say.
Moreover, are not cancellable. It's not that they are not easily erased by widows are indelible.

This makes the coexistence of Ubuntu with windows ends. I had to choose to delete the partition containing Ubuntu on my laptop and those of the entire family, I believe first full of enthusiasm, with some regret, but we use photoshop, adina, MathLAB, autocad, excel, and other things, to we bought a license, we have learned to use and do not have substitutes minimally adequate.

Even in the past had different times and for various Linux distributions to install on the handset to work with Ubuntu and only the percentage of things that do not work at first was also acceptable.

On my HP dv7 1130el do not work the digital TV, the microphone with Skype for audio and I had to add to / etc / modprobe.d / alsa-base line: options snd-hda-intel model = laptop single_cmd = 1 enable_msi = 1, which is a poor piece.

I must say that there would be even more tested on linux, if I had not found these three free programs:

1 EasyBCD 1.7.2 to [http://neosmart.net/dl.php?id=1](http://neosmart.net/dl.php?id=1)
that allows you to use standard windows bootloader and add a module called neogrub that communicates with the mbr of Ubuntu installed and confined according to the caution in its own partition root.

2 driver which is [http://sourceforge.net/projects/ext2fsd](http://sourceforge.net/projects/ext2fsd)
that allows you to permanently mount ext3 partitions in reading and writing, copy and edit what you want in perfect safety.

3 SelfImage a [http://selfimage.excelcia.org/](http://selfimage.excelcia.org/)
3 minutes in which the copy 5GB of data in the Ubuntu partition of 20 GB on a file. img of 2.5 GB and in three minutes it back on the partition of origin completely overwritten sector by sector.

Without taking by two copies of all the partition of Ubuntu in its stages of progress, I would not be ever able to get on top of false hardware errors like this:
usb xx: device not accepting address xx, error -71
then disappear overnight with the restore operation.

Regards
Pierpaolo Cellini (i beg Your pardon for my english i am italian)
  [email]pierpaolo_cellini@libero.it[/email]

---

