---
title: "&quot;GSynaptics couldn't initialize&quot; lenovo g530"
date: 2009-03-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by snocutt on 2009-03-31
I've got a lenovo g530, with a dual install ubuntu 8.10.

The trackpad is a little eccentric. It taps, it scrolls and is very responsive. The issue is that vertical movements are way too fast and horizontal a bit slow. I got gsynaptics with the add/remove, I tried to update the xconfig file like it says but my xconfig file doesn't have the trackpad listed. Here are the contents 



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



Any advice?

---

