---
title: "9.04 - using only external monitor with desired resolution"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by novitiate on 2009-05-03
After several years on the Windows administration treadmill I thought I'd try something new. I downloaded the 64-bit ISO for Ubuntu 9.04 and installed it on my laptop, and my laptop now boots between Windows XP and Ubuntu.

Or, rather, it used to, until I started fiddling. I was having problems getting the external monitor to run at anything higher than 1024x768, and in a fit of cleverness (knowing enough to be dangerous) I installed ATI's Catalyst 9.3 package. Now the laptop hangs partway through booting Ubuntu, and won't respond to any keystrokes; the only option I have is to hold the power button until the laptop switches off. See the attached photograph for an illustration of what happens.

Hardware:
HP nc6400 laptop
1.66GHz T5500 Core 2 Duo CPU
2GB RAM
ATI Radeon Mobility X1300 GPU
On-board monitor: 1280x800 LCD
Docking station, with a mouse, keyboard and monitor connected to it
External monitor: Samsung SM2493HM, native resolution 1920x1200, on a DVI connection

I don't wish to use both monitors at the same time. When at home the laptop sits, closed, in its docking station and I only use the external monitor. When on the road I use the on-board monitor.

Under Windows my laptop happily switches between the on-board display and the external display, even when making liberal use of hibernation. Windows detects the active display and adjusts the resolution automatically. I would like to be able to do the same - or as close as possible - in Ubuntu. And here's where I came unstuck.

System -> Preferences -> Display showed me an option to turn display mirroring on and off. When on, the available resolutions were limited to 1024x768, 800x600 and 640x480. When off, I could choose more resolutions for the external monitor, up to and including 1920x1200.

I turned off display mirroring, chose 1920x1200 for the external monitor, and hit Apply. The screen blanked momentarily, then lit up again showing what appeared to be the normal background, but stretched somewhat. Nothing else was visible on the screen, not even the bars at the top and bottom which I'd seen only moments before. The mouse pointer was not visible, and no amount of moving the mouse would make it show up. I ended up having to remove the laptop from the docking station and opening it up, only to find that everything that had previously been on the external monitor was now visible on the on-board screen.

If display mirroring is what it sounds like - showing the same image on two separate screens - then that's not what I want to use. I want the laptop to use only one screen at any one time, with the chosen screen depending on whether the laptop is docked or undocked.

So, right now I have three problems I wish to solve:
1) How do I fix Ubuntu so that it boots to a GUI, even running at 1024x768?
2) Once I've done that, how do I get Ubuntu to use only the external monitor, without mirroring, at 1920x1200?
3) Then, how do I tell Ubuntu to use either the on-board monitor at 1280x800, or the external monitor at 1920x1200, but never both monitors at the same time?

I tried booting Ubuntu into the second GRUB option - the recovery one - but picking the option to fix graphics-related problems didn't fix anything.

Searching these forums has yielded no results, possibly because I don't know the terms for the concepts I'm trying to deal with. I found many Nvidia-related results, but my laptop has an ATI GPU and even if the concepts espoused are valid I don't know how to translate them from one manufacturer's product to another's.

Is this problem due to using the 64-bit version of Ubuntu? Would I be better off sticking with the 32-bit version instead? Is the problem due to something else altogether (user ineptitude aside)?

---

### Post by ajr225 on 2009-05-04
I am having a similar problem, that only started with Ubuntu 9.04. But it is the 32-bit version, so to answer your question above, I don't think that's the problem. It seems like it must be the drivers or configuration settings.

I have a Dell Latitude D630 that I use with a docking station at work. Attached is a Dell 20" monitor with a dvi connection to the docking station.

**Using 8.10**, it wasn't perfect, but I was able to use the external monitor at the same resolution as my laptop screen (1440x900). I had to set the aspect ratio on the monitor to 1:1, so actually part of the external monitor area was black - otherwise the display would be fuzzy or stretched.

**Using 9.04**, I cannot use the laptop screen resolution, and I'm only given choices of much lower screen resolution for the external monitor (max 1152x864). If I use that, all the icons on my panel get moved around and I have much less screen to work with, which is very frustrating!

It sounds to me like our two problems are related. Anyone know a fix for this?? Thanks!

---

### Post by erolsen on 2009-05-10
i do have a dell latitude d630 with the nvidia quadro video card. the laptop display works properly. however, as soon as i connect the computer to the dock (which has 2 19" monitors attached), i get nothing. monitors are completely blank.

i have ubuntu 8.10 that was immediately upgraded to 9.04

---

### Post by o3rat on 2009-05-28
Im having a simiilary problem. Im running 9.04 and a intel GM965. For some reason I can only put the max resolution of my notebook (1440x900) on the external monitor.

---

