---
title: "10.04 64-bit Unmount NTFS Partition Issue"
date: 2010-05-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by probev on 2010-05-12
I run dual boot Win/Ubuntu environment. I recently updated my Karmic to 10.04 64-bit.

What I started noticing is that some time when I try to unmount my NTFS partition I get a message that says:

"It is now safe to remove your D Drive"

??!!??!!

"D Drive" is the label of my NTFS partition and I believe this message makes no sense. I never got this message in 9.10.

Anybody else seen this message and what would be the best way to debug? Again this is my internal disk and no external disks are attached.

Thanks!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-12
not seen on my end, maybe use mountmanager to set your prefs as you need

sudo dpkg --configure -a

---

### Post by probev on 2010-05-12
> **dino99 said:**
> not seen on my end, maybe use mountmanager to set your prefs as you need

sudo dpkg --configure -a

Thanks a lot  for the adv. I checked out MountManager and everything seems to be in order. Yet, I still get this notification when I try to unmount either my ntfs C: or D: drive. I am attaching a screenshot.

I also noticed that this happens when I never provided sudo password for whatever reason. If I provided sudo password for any other application or tool, I never see the message. For example right after I boot my laptop, without running any other app or tool I got the message.

Anything else that might be causing this?

---

### Post by probev on 2010-05-13
bump

Why Ubuntu thinks that my internal drive is external???

---

### Post by probev on 2010-05-14
bump

WOW...I have not seen anything like it...I posted another thread and not a single response...

What would be the best way to debug or at least file a bug maybe...

---

