---
title: "9.10 and flat screen TV as monitor"
date: 2010-08-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by candtalan on 2010-08-15
Some friends are using Ubuntu 9.10 and have replaced the previous flat screen monitor with a flat screen TV, which is fairly modern and has a vga PC display input socket. This worked well for approximately 6 months, until recently when the login screen looked distorted and apparently did not work. At this stage when they contacted me I got them to use a virtual terminal (ctrl alt F1) and I found that login was functional ok, but apparently not the normal login screen, perhaps because of the visual distortion.

At a later restart it was possible for them to login using the distorted login screen, and a normal desktop was then available. A bunch of updates were seen to be due and were downloaded and installed ok.

The Ubuntu version I am fairly sure I left them with was 8.04 LTS fully updated at that time, and the version they were using now seemed like 9.10 although I am not sure this is relevant to the problem. Except that the default 9.10 orange desktop seemed alien to them. So, one thought is that with an (unwitting) online upgrade to 9.10, the display configuration was disturbed.

So, at this stage now with everything apparently working ok I asked them to look at the System>Administration>System Monitor, I wanted to see the version. To my surprise the system monitor window was so distorted, perhaps oversize, to be unreadable. This seemed to be the only window item which now gave this problem (login screen ok now). Many other apps were looked at and their respective windows were perfectly normal. The distorted windows could apparently be moved around using ALT and left mouse click and drag, so it was partially acting like a window.

I confirmed it was 9.10 by use of the terminal.

Compiz is off.

In System>Preferences>Display a couple of things were noticed. The Mirror screens box was checked, and the Monitor was identified as an incorrect larger size. The actual monitor (TV) is a Samsung flat screen TV 23 inch and the Display Preferences identified it wrongly as Samsung 40 inch.

The unchecking of the Mirror screens option did not cure the distorted display of the System Monitor window, clicking the Detect Monitors did apparently nothing.

I read that 9.10 uses HAL for some configuration including display (?) and I am not at all clear what can be done in configuration. Also I see in 9.10 that the Recovery (boot options) menu does not include graphics configuration either.

Because the system is working ok with the apparent unique exception of the System Monitor window, the urgency has reduced. However, I would appreciate comments, particularly towards being able to correctly configure the display preferences to the correct size screen (23 inch) which, maybe, will cure the display problems?

tia

---

