---
title: "9.04 or 8.10 for old Dell Inspron 1300 laptop?"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Duo Maxwell on 2009-04-26
It's one with a a pre GMA series Intel IGP graphics chip, I've heard that the Intel driver in the more recent versions has some bad glitches in it, which buntu do you recommend?

The specs are 1.5Ghz Celeron M, 512Mb DDR2 PC4200, 40Gb 5400RPM PATA HDD.

Also the wifi chip is some kind of boardcom chipset thats been modified by dell, will there be any issues with it?

I'm trying to talk the owned into 4Gb of ram since it's dirt cheap. Sucks theres no 7200RPM HDDs for PATA, but yet there are SSD drives for it...

[EDIT] networking is the Broadcom BCM4401-B0 and BCM4311, the ubuntu 8.10 prompted for the driver install of the driver, but as far as I can tell didn't install it since I can't see any of the open wireless network in the area. Where can I get the correct drivers installed?

---

### Post by homebrewalright on 2009-05-18
Ive been using the same laptop for the past couple years with ubuntu.  I just upgraded to 9.04 and everything is working fine except for screen resolution (found your post googling for a fix so I cant tell you how to fix that yet).  I know 8.10 works great.  for me, the wireless drivers are installed automatically now by fwcutter;  got a prompt after instillation.  Before that i used ndiswrapper and another one but they were both a pain involving a lot of blacklisting and things like that.

i think the board can only handle 2 gigs of ram.

---

