---
title: "[12.04] Unknown Display Driver for Intel GM45"
date: 2012-06-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Mortis8513 on 2012-06-12
Hi there,

once again I am trying to get ubuntu to work on my HP 2730p, but am having trouble with my graphics. 

current issue: The screen flickers in a way that makes proper use of the machine impossible 98% of the time.


As far as I know this machine uses the GM45 chipset, but ubuntu just states "Unknown Display". I have tried the 64bit and currently running a 32bit wubi install from within a win7 32bit system. The screen resolution appears to be correct.

What kind of information do you need from me to troubleshoot this?

Any help is greatly appreciated.

----------------------------------------
Update: 
----------------------------------------
Maybe I was to quick to report here. After some updates moste of the flickering just stopped and this: 
```
udo apt-get install mesa-utils
```
 made the correct graphic driver show up in the settings.  

For now there is just some minor flickering while on the loginscreen, but nothing close to the issues I had before.

Therefore, I hope this was a false alarm and will mark this as "solved" for now.

---

### Post by ame82 on 2012-08-20
hi
i am posting to show how much i suffered to do a simple task,
i wanted to install my gm45 intel display driver , i searched google, and here i got lost some says goto ppas and install , no one exeplain how, evantually i found in that page some codes i just copy and paste , i got a result that my display card changed from unknown to intel with no change on performance, and also i didnt know what of these codes does , 
now i have vbox with windows 7 , iam trying to install the driver on win7 with no succes its always seen as standerd 
dont know what to do ?
also i want to repartion and resize the home and swap file partion any one can help

---

