---
title: ".iso disks not recognized"
date: 2009-12-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by gbttun on 2009-12-29
Hi-
I've burnt a Linux boot disc onto a Memorex CD-RW, and my laptop (Presario C500) no longer recognizes the disc. Even though I have selected 'boot from CD' first in the BIOS, it proceeds to boot Ubuntu from the HD.
I've already checked the md5sum after the download. When running Ubuntu, the laptop doesn't recognize the disc and displays "Unable to mount location". Other blank CD-RW of the same brand appear on the desktop when I insert them into the CD drive. My laptop also recognizes audio discs and DVDs, so no problems there.
As a note, it also doesn't recognize a burnt game CD that worked on another laptop. Both the burnt game copy and the Linux boot disc were made by non-professionals; my laptop is able to boot the Canonical-made Koala and store-bought games.

Thanks in advance. :]

---

### Post by gbttun on 2010-01-02
bump.

---

### Post by IcarusR on 2010-01-02
I suggest you try burning iso again at a slower speed. 
I always write iso images at 9.4x, the slowest the drive will do.

---

### Post by Geistanon on 2010-01-02
Also, double check that when you're creating the CD that you're actually -extracting- the iso to the CD, and not simply putting the iso onto the cd.

---

### Post by gbttun on 2010-01-03
I burnt the image to the CD RW using both Brasero and K3B at a 10x burn speed (and the md5 matches), but the same results occurred. My hardware doesn't seem to recognize it as a boot disk; it spins in the drive, and eventually proceeds to booting my standard Ubuntu.

After I burn the image to the blank CD, it still registers as a blank CD on my Desktop. If I open the CD's properties, it does mention that 690 MB of stuff is sitting on the disc.

---

