---
title: "RTL8187b"
date: 2010-06-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Nate_the_Ace on 2010-06-18
I'm sorry if this is a double post but it is a little infuriating when something goes like this. I have a Gateway M-1626, with a  RTL8187b wireless card. This card has worked up until I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 10.04, it even worked during the beta and RC. I would like to solve this problem and ditch Windows, and this wireless problem is the only thing holding me back. Thanks in advance for any help. Also, I am no stranger to the command line. I would like to post the lsusb results, but I am stuck in Windows, you understand.

-Thanks,
Nate

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-06-18
Is this unrelated to the webcam? as in 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1439982](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1439982) and 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455904](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455904)

---

### Post by Nate_the_Ace on 2010-06-18
The wireless going out was only a symptom of the kernel panic resulting from the webcam error. Webcam causes kernel panic, then wireless dies.

In the "RTM" release of 10.04 the wireless just doesn't work. It shows up in lsusb output, but the option for "Wireless Networking" in the GNOME Network Manager is even grayed out. It's like it doesn't know that the NIC is even connected.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-06-18
You should see if a driver is loading and the interface is up. I realize you can't post the output of these commands, but they may give you a better idea of exactly what is failing.
```
sudo lshw -C network
sudo iwconfig
```

---

### Post by Nate_the_Ace on 2010-06-18
Are there other people having an issue with this chipset? I see no reason why this problem should be isolated.

---

### Post by Nate_the_Ace on 2010-06-19
Okay, this is something that I haven't tried yet, Kubuntu. I popped it in, and the wireless just worked! I can't believe I hadn't tried it until now. Maybe because I don't really like KDE, but if that's what it takes to rid myself of Windows, then so be it.

I don't know why it works, but it does. Thanks everyone for your suggestions and ideas.

-Thanks,
Nate

---

### Post by m3ld4r10n on 2011-02-14
> **Nate_the_Ace said:**
> Okay, this is something that I haven't tried yet, Kubuntu. I popped it in, and the wireless just worked! I can't believe I hadn't tried it until now. Maybe because I don't really like KDE, but if that's what it takes to rid myself of Windows, then so be it.

I don't know why it works, but it does. Thanks everyone for your suggestions and ideas.

-Thanks,
Nate


What a ridiculous workaround. ONe should never need to subject themself to a fresh install.

I have to compile my drivers just to get my card working. Same as you ( RTL8187B) but I'm still having the same issue :S

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-02-14
Another command that might help (make sure your wireless isn't blocked for some reason:
```
sudo rfkill list
```

---

