---
title: "S.M.A.R.T. error - which drive is bad?"
date: 2011-11-26
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by sjreg1 on 2011-11-26
I have a server that recently brought up a S.M.A.R.T. error upon startup.  The problem is I don't know which of the 6 drives has the bad sectors.  How do I determine which is the bad one without pulling out each one individually?  Thanks.

---

### Post by Paperypip on 2011-11-26
Open up a program called Disk Utility. It will give you detailed information about each of your drives, including their individual SMART statuses.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-11-26
Moved to Hardware and Laptops.

---

### Post by sjreg1 on 2011-12-04
Thanks for moving this to the right place.  I opened gparted and the only drive with a mention of anything bad is a 'boot' message on one of the drives in the error column.  Is this the bad drive?  It's still under warrenty so I can just return it to WD but I don't want to send the wrong drive.  Please help.  Thanks.

---

### Post by jtokarchuk on 2011-12-04
Please use Disk Utility instead of Gparted. It will tell you the failing drive with serial number so you can match it up.

---

### Post by sjreg1 on 2011-12-04
I didn't know it did that - thanks for the heads up.  Now, where do I find disk utility?  I'm running ubuntu 11.04 I think.  I searched for it initially both on the OS and tried to find it's location online but failed.

---

### Post by jtokarchuk on 2011-12-04
Is 11.04 still gnome? I think it is under administration if that is the case.

---

### Post by sjreg1 on 2011-12-05
Negative.  I think it uses unity.

---

### Post by sjreg1 on 2011-12-18
I made a mistake - the version I'm running is 10.04 and I still can't find 'disk utility', only gparted.

edit - Also, the S.M.A.R.T. error doesn't come up upon startup any more but in gparted I can still see a 'boot' flag.  Is this an error?  Does the S.M.A.R.T. error still exist?

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2011-12-18
What is the model of each of the 6 hard drives?

---

### Post by satanselbow on 2011-12-18
> **sjreg1 said:**
> 
edit - Also, the S.M.A.R.T. error doesn't come up upon startup any more but in gparted I can still see a 'boot' flag.  Is this an error?  Does the S.M.A.R.T. error still exist?

No the "boot flag" is not an error - it is a partitioning flag that tells some bootloaders (windows) which drive to um... boot ;)

SMART errors do not tend to "go away" and should not be ignored - they may, however, only be reported to you a certain number of times - you may have inadvertantly ticked a "do not report this error" type flag.

to run the Disk Utility from a terminal (bit of an obscure one)

```
 gksu palimpsest
```

---

### Post by sjreg1 on 2011-12-18
This is the hard drive that is running the OS - [http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16822136073](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16822136073)

These are all the other hard drives (there are 4 of them) - [http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16822152245](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16822152245)

gksu palimpsest command does nothing - neither does sudo gksu palimpsest

---

### Post by satanselbow on 2011-12-18
Looks like you do not currently have it installed :( Apologies I was under the impression it was a default :$

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-disk-utility
```

* My money is on the WD failing - the blue label drives have shockingly short lifespans in my experience.

---

### Post by sjreg1 on 2011-12-18
I figured I'd need additional software.  I'll install it and update here.

I've never had a problem with WD in the past?

Also - why are the prices so different?  I mean I expect prices to change and they were on sale when I bought them, but they're more than double what they were when I bought them.

---

### Post by satanselbow on 2011-12-18
The vast majority of HDD are manufactured in Thailand which has seen recent flooding thus wiping out the manufacturing capacity. Thus prices go through the roof. Basic laws of supply and demand.

Same rules apply to RAM and Japan earthquakes/tsunami :(

---

### Post by sudodus on 2011-12-18
```
palimpsest 
``` is the name of the disk utility program. Run it from a terminal window :-)

Install from the repos if necessary [s]with sudo apt-get install palimpsest[/s]

---

### Post by satanselbow on 2011-12-18
> **sudodus said:**
> ```
palimpsest 
``` is the name of the disk utility program. Run it from a terminal window :-)

Install from the repos if necessary with ```
sudo apt-get install palimpsest
```

There is no such package "palimpsest" although that is the command required to run the "Gnome Disk Utility" from a terminal. The correct install instructions are a couple of posts above.

Please read a thread before sharing FUD.

---

### Post by sjreg1 on 2011-12-18
Thanks for answering everything so quickly.  I'll update as soon as I can.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-12-18
> **satanselbow said:**
> 
Please read a thread before sharing FUD.

Though the advice was wrong it was certainly not FUD.

---

### Post by sjreg1 on 2011-12-19
O.k. - I installed disk utility and the only drive that SMART Status is not giving a 'disk is healthy' response is one that says 'disk was used outside of design parameters in the past'.  The drive is still responding normally, but I'm moving all the data off it now.  Is this a problem worth replacing the drive?  The drive is less than 6 months old and Samsung will replace a bad drive for free, but I'm not sure this constitutes a replacement.  Thanks again for help thus far, now I need to know should I send the drive in or keep using it?

edit - I checked the details of the potentially problematic drive and there was a spinup time error 'failed in the past'.  Every other parameter was good or n/a.

edit 2 - I did a little research on the error and found most counts of the 'disk was used outside of design parameters in the past' and the spinup time error to never cause future problems even after months of use.  Let me know if you guys think otherwise.

---

