---
title: "8.04 vs 7.10 - shorter battery lifetime, Compal FL90"
date: 2008-05-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by specwr on 2008-05-18
Hello there,

I used to have Ubuntu 7.10 on my Compal FL90 - the great advantage of it, was battery lifetime - 4,5 hours (with compiz etc. enabled).

After upgrading to Ubu 8.04, I've noticed few positive changes, but also negative ones. Actually, only one negative. My laptop can now run only 3,5 hours and I'm sure, that's not because the battery gets worn or smth - this issue appeared immediately after the upgrade. What can cause this problem? I've previouslyi nstalled beta, then I've changed to desktop version.

My Compal FL90 has this specifications:
Core2Duo 2,2ghz
NVidia 8600GT
2 GB of ram
120 GB Hard disk

---

### Post by brujoand on 2008-05-18
hm.. i had the same experience when upgrading to 7.10..
Anyway, a few tips are installing gpowertweak, which lets you tweak system settings to reduce power consumption.
However, there could be a bug in the power-manager.
Have you tried keeping your pc on untill it runs out of power, the estimate could just be wrong. Try comparing it to acpi by typing acpi in terminal.

---

### Post by specwr on 2008-05-18
Can u instruct me how to use gpowertweak, to make this efficient?

Yes, I've tried to run my pc as long as the battery allows - unfortunately, the estimated time seems to display proper value.

However, like 6 hours ago, for few seconds, it displayed (on 100% battery) 4,5 hours. Then it disappeared ;(.

@EDIT:

ACPI gives:
>   Battery 1: charging, 28%, charging at zero rate - will never fully charge.


I'm charging my laptop right now.

---

### Post by brujoand on 2008-05-18
To install type in terminal: (or you can use synaptic and serach for it)

sudo apt-get install powertweak-gtk

to launch type sudo gpowertweak

Go to Virtual Memory -- bdflush -- Set Dirty writeback to 1500
   This will make your disk less power aggressive (it will write more seldom)

Then press save & quit, now the powertweakdeamon will run in the background tweaking other settings aswell. This will help a little. 

You can also go start gconf-editor in terminal and choose:
  Apps -- Gnome power Manager -- cpufreq and set both policy_ac and policy_battery to conservative. This will keep your cpu from using more power then necessary. I've even set policy_battery to powersave and it works great. However, if you have a slow computer this will make it slower, if not, you will probably not notice.

the last tip, try powertop, i think it'll only work on intel motherboeards but you can get it by
   sudo apt-get install powertop
run it as root
   sudo powertop
and it will give you feedback on what is causing you to loose power, works great for me.

hope that helps

---

### Post by specwr on 2008-05-18
I've done what you've suggested, I will post results later. Thank you, hope this helps. However, I still don't know, why this issue appeared at all :/

---

### Post by Nepherte on 2008-05-18
Powertop is also a useful tool to see what keeps your laptop busy. It's in the repo.

---

### Post by brujoand on 2008-05-18
Just as a sidenote, if none of this works, try :
  cat /proc/acpi/battery/BAT1/info

It will give you, amongst other things, design capasity and current capasity of the battery. So if your battery is damaged, the numbers will tell you.

---

### Post by specwr on 2008-05-18
> 
present:                 yes
design capacity:         7200 mAh
last full capacity:      7200 mAh
battery technology:      rechargeable
design voltage:          11100 mV
design capacity warning: 420 mAh
design capacity low:     156 mAh
capacity granularity 1:  264 mAh
capacity granularity 2:  3780 mAh
model number:            PA3465U 
serial number:           3658Q
battery type:            Li-Ion
OEM info:                COMPAL  


Everything seems to be alright, am I right?

---

### Post by brujoand on 2008-05-18
Yeah that looks perfect, your battery is in great shape, this is definitely software related..

I guess powertop would be your best bet then.

---

### Post by specwr on 2008-05-18
Powertop gives me smth like this
> 
Top causes for wakeups:
  39.1% (290.9)      <kernel IPI> : Rescheduling interrupts 
  10.9% ( 80.9)           firefox : schedule_timeout (process_timeout) 
  10.4% ( 77.5)       <interrupt> : extra timer interrupt 
   8.3% ( 62.0)       <interrupt> : PS/2 keyboard/mouse/touchpad 
   8.1% ( 60.6)       <interrupt> : uhci_hcd:usb1, nvidia 
   6.3% ( 46.9)       <interrupt> : HDA Intel 
   5.6% ( 41.6)           firefox : futex_wait (hrtimer_wakeup) 
   2.1% ( 15.6)   gnome-volume-co : schedule_timeout (process_timeout) 
   1.5% ( 11.1)       <interrupt> : b43 
   1.4% ( 10.3)             skype : schedule_timeout (process_timeout) 
   1.3% ( 10.0)     <kernel core> : ehci_irq (ehci_watchdog) 
   1.3% ( 10.0)             skype : do_nanosleep (hrtimer_wakeup) 
   0.5% (  4.0)   <kernel module> : usb_hcd_poll_rh_status (rh_timer_func)
   0.4% (  2.8)    gnome-terminal : schedule_timeout (process_timeout)
   0.3% (  2.1)   multiload-apple : schedule_timeout (process_timeout)
   0.3% (  2.0)       gnome-panel : schedule_timeout (process_timeout)
   0.2% (  1.5)    wpa_supplicant : schedule_timeout (process_timeout)
   0.2% (  1.2)        pulseaudio : schedule_timeout (process_timeout)
   0.2% (  1.2)         nm-applet : schedule_timeout (process_timeout)
   0.1% (  1.1)    cpufreq-applet : schedule_timeout (process_timeout)
   0.1% (  1.0)    NetworkManager : tg3_open (tg3_timer)
   0.1% (  1.0)              Xorg : nv_start_rc_timer (nv_kern_rc_timer)


It also displayes this advices, I click proper button and the changes apply.
I don't think there is anything more I can do :( So I will have to stay with this shortened battery lifetime :/

One more thing - I had Ubu 7.1 + Win XP and I had installed SmartBattery on XP - it didn't allow battery to be charged then xx% (to keep it in better shape). Now, on Ubu 8.04, Linux seems to overwrite thix XP settings and it always charges until 100%. I know, that in future it will cause my battery to corrupt and I don't want that. Is there any equivalent of that kind of programme for Linux?

---

