---
title: "Having some lag issues with Nvidia Optimus on my laptop that I can't seem to resolve."
date: 2023-05-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by queenbiscuit311 on 2023-05-15
Hello everyone, this is my first post on the Ubuntu forums, so I'm not 100% sure if this is the right section for this question. I'm currently on Kubuntu running Ubuntu 23.04 and my laptop is acting very strangely whenever the iGPU on my laptop is enabled. My computer is a gaming laptop with Intel+Nvidia graphics. I've been using an Ubuntu-based Linux distribution almost weekly to some capacity for at least 2 years now and daily for a bit over one year, but this is my first time actually trying to switch to one on my main computer which ive always used Windows on. This means that unfortunately I have no idea how to navigate the disaster that is getting anything Nvidia related working properly, but I was hoping someone here would at least know whether my problem can be fixed. My computer has a mux switch, so I can have the integrated intel gpu on the computer either enabled or disabled. The most practical way for me to use it is having it enabled because I can use that iGPU to record or watch a video or something while I'm running something on the Nvidia graphics and also take my laptop with me and have the Nvidia GPU shut off so the battery actually lasts. Issue is that whenever I enable the iGPU, everything works fine until I try to open literally any app that needs to even slightly use the computer resources. The moment I do that, the entire computer will run at like 1 fps until the app is done loading or after some period of time, I'm really not sure which one it is. And I do mean the entire computer, even the mouse cursor. This happens with stuff like games, VMs, starting file compressions, etc. It doesn't help that while some programs will at least continue to output audio properly while this is happening, others straight up don't or just crash while the computer is like this. The only way to stop this behavior is to disable my iGPU, which disables optimus and stops this behavior entirely. Now sure this works, but now I can't use the laptop on battery for longer than 50 minutes, I can't use my thunderbolt dock for output, and I can't use my iGPU for some extra tasks which I like being able to do. When I first started this project/experiment of switching to Linux last week, I was using Linux Mint 20.3. The issue was so bad that it would literally last like 3 minutes. In hopes that Linux Mint was just borked or something, I switched to Kubuntu. I actually really like Kubuntu, so I'm glad I did, but the issue remains. Granted, it's nowhere near as bad as it only lasts like 30-60 seconds instead of several minutes but it's still bad. I also don't remember this always happening. Once before on this computer I ran the same version of Linux Mint off an external drive just to mess around, and I remember starting one of the programs that would cause problems on my computer now and I distinctly remember none of this happening, but my memory may just be foggy. I've tried seeing if old drivers work but unfortunately for some reason my OS won't boot the GUI with any drivers older than the Nvidia version 525 drivers and I really don't feel like installing an older Ubuntu version again to test it. I'm hoping at least one person here knows anything about this issue, because so far I've found nothing at all from searching the internet about this. I'd be happy to supply any more information from my system if needed.

---

