---
title: "14.04 fan working at full load after screen lock"
date: 2014-05-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by roberto19 on 2014-05-27
Hello, 

first of all, sorry for my english.

Since I have upgraded from 13.10 to 14.04 in my toshiba ultrabook I have noticed that, whenever the screen dims and finally locks when I'm not using the laptop, just seconds after that, the fan starts to blow at full load like if there was going on some big cpu load, but if I unlock the screen and check the cpu load, nothing is happening to consume so much cpu, in fact the cpu temp is about 50º which is a temperature that barely makes the fan starts to spin. After unlocking the screen the fan gradually slows down until it stops. 

I have to say that the wierdest thing is that this only occurs when a second display is plugged in, if I left the screen dim and lock when i don't have my second display attached, the fan stays quiet all the time. Also, this only happens in 14.04, if i make a clean install of 12.04 or 13.10 it doesn't happens. If I make a clean install of ubuntu 14.04LTS or if I upgrade from 13.10, it makes this bug with the fan when the screen is locked down.

Does anyone know if this is a known bug in ubuntu kernel or something like that?

My laptop is a Toshiba portege z930 by the way.

thanks

---

### Post by WinEunuchs2Unix on 2014-05-27
Please see the six replies under "what's the best way to reduce laptop temperature" just above this thread. *note to self learn how to link threads*

---

### Post by roberto19 on 2014-05-28
Thanks WinEunuchs2Unix but in that thread, nobody is talking about this anoying bug when the screen locks in ubuntu and the fans start to work full load, in fact, i haven't been able to find anything related all over the regular ubuntu forums, thats why I started this thread. 

in case you know anything about this bug, I would really apreciate you leave some information. Thanks

PD: I had to disable screen dim and lock to avoid the laptop fans to start blowing like hell.

---

### Post by WinEunuchs2Unix on 2014-05-28
Sorry I was focused on the "fan" part of the message.  Screen dimming and fan speed are both part of the ACPI ([FONT=arial]Advanced Configuration and Power Interface) I think so the root of both problems may lie within.  On my version the Toshiba hotkeys to dim or brighten the screen don't work unless I suspend and resume the laptop first.  On a clean reboot I have to go to the screen dim & lock screen to manually adjust brightness.  Many others have reported the same hotkeys bug.[/FONT]

---

### Post by rbnonato on 2014-09-02
I have the exact same problem with my Toshiba Z835 Ultrabook running Ubuntu 14.04. I always use it with an external HDMI monitor connected (and I haven't tested yet whether the issue still occurs without it). This problem didn't use to happen when I was using 12.04.

---

