---
title: "Touchpad tapping sensitivity issue."
date: 2009-04-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by havencruise on 2009-04-20
Bought a Toshiba L300 lately. Installed gsynaptics to configure the touchpad tapping sensitivity as its horribly,intolerably insensitive. Apparently it doesn't seem to make any difference whether I set the tapping sensitivity to high or low. 
Looked around a few posts which more or less seem to point to the xorg.conf file. My xorg.conf looks like this:
[COLOR="Red"]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/COLOR]

Yup, that's the entire file including comments, description and settings. I was expecting it to have a section on the touchpad, but apparently its not there. Any suggestions on what I should do? 
Maybe I'm looking at the wrong type of touchpad? Anyone know what type of touchpad it is that I have on my Toshiba L300 Satellite?

---

