---
title: "X3470"
date: 2010-09-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by McTwitch on 2010-09-13
I have a printer that doesn't come with drivers ready to install on the driver searching thing that pops up. I was wondering if I'd be able to install these drivers through Wine, and be able to use it to print from there? If not, are there any other possibilities that I haven't heard of yet?

---

### Post by McTwitch on 2010-09-15
Alright, I loaded the disk, browsed the bugger, until I found the setup.exe file. I ran this through Wine, and brought up the installation program just fine. I can follow all of the steps through, up until it asks me how I'm communicating with the printer. It asks me if I'm using a USB cable (which I am.), or a Peer to Peer computer. The problem is, though, It won't allow me to choose USB cable. So how do I make it recognize that my computer is connected to it?

---

### Post by ihoseba on 2010-12-15
[McTwitch]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1125471"), Im trying to setup one Lexmark X3470 in Ubuntu 10.04. as you did. Can you please describe deeper how did you got it? Many thanks.

---

### Post by McTwitch on 2010-12-19
It's been a bit, so I'll do my best. I never did get the bugger to work, but maybe you'll have better work. First I loaded the installation disk for the printer. I browsed the disk, until I found the "setup.exe" program. I ran it with wine, which allowed me to go through part of the installation process. I kept hitting a snag, though. The program would ask me whether I'm using USB or peer-to-peer. I was using USB, but it wouldn't let me choose it. 

Hope you have better luck!

---

