---
title: "Toshiba M200 Pen problems"
date: 2008-07-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by darkzeus85 on 2008-07-11
OK so I have looked around and other threads talk about uncommenting lines in the xorg.conf for a wacom whatever and I ran 

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

in the terminal and there is nothing in there about a wacom anything. 

Also If someone could help me here so it takes the pain and time out of searching for fixes for screen rotation it would be welcomed and thanked. 

FYI I installed using Wubi and I am running 8.04.1 on the older m200's anymore questions I would be happy to answer to get this working. And thanks in advance to anyone that helps me.

DarkZeus

---

### Post by darkzeus85 on 2008-07-11
bump

---

### Post by darkzeus85 on 2008-07-11
can anyone help me?

---

### Post by darkzeus85 on 2008-07-11
Bump

---

### Post by darkzeus85 on 2008-07-12
Id love to get this working and can not find anything that helps my particular situation

---

### Post by solar george on 2008-08-30
```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200 32M/64M]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"RandRRotation"	"True"
	Option		"NvAgp"			"1"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-70
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200 32M/64M]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

```
This assumes that you have the Nvidia non-free drivers and also contains a fix which should enable hibernation as per [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaLaptopBinaryDriverSuspend](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaLaptopBinaryDriverSuspend).

---

### Post by yoma819 on 2008-09-01
ok i have the following in my xorg.conf


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
Endsection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200 32M/64M]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

and yet i cannot get the pen to work!
what did you do to get it working?
and any idea on the screen rotation?
thanks
--yoma

---

### Post by solar george on 2008-09-01
Replace
```
Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```
with
```
Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
```

And remember to restart xorg

---

### Post by yoma819 on 2008-09-01
thank you
it works perfectly
do you have any idea on the screen rotation and the handwriting recognition?
thanks
yoma
:):)

---

### Post by solar george on 2008-09-01
Handwriting recognition:

[http://risujin.org/cellwriter/](http://risujin.org/cellwriter/)

Rotation:
```
#!/bin/zsh

# Check orientation (from Rotate Script on ubuntu forums)
if [ `xrandr --verbose | /bin/grep '(normal left inverted right)' |awk '{print $5}'` = "normal" ]; then
 xrandr -o left
 xrandr -o left
 xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate 2
elif
 xrandr -o normal
 xsetwacom set "stylus" Rotate 0
then fi

```

---

### Post by yoma819 on 2008-09-01
ok
i am sorry i am fairly new to linux
what do i do with that code?
thanks
--yoma

---

### Post by solar george on 2008-09-02
Paste it into a file.
Name it something like "rotate.sh"
Open a terminal and do:
```
chmod +x ./rotate.sh
```
Then add a launcher on the panel or associate that command with one of your screen buttons.

---

### Post by yoma819 on 2008-09-02
ok i recognise i am now being spoon fed and i do appreciate the effort but :



yoma@yoma-laptop:~/Desktop$ chmod +x ./rotate.sh
yoma@yoma-laptop:~/Desktop$ rotate.sh
bash: /usr/bin/rotate.sh: Permission denied
yoma@yoma-laptop:~/Desktop$ sudo rotate.sh
sudo: rotate.sh: command not found
yoma@yoma-laptop:~/Desktop$ ./rotate.sh
bash: ./rotate.sh: /bin/zsh: bad interpreter: No such file or directory
yoma@yoma-laptop:~/Desktop$ 


:confused::confused:
when i run it by just double clicking nothing happens

---

### Post by solar george on 2008-09-03
Whoops
[Install zsh]("apt://zsh")

The script is a bit bodged so requires zsh instead of bash (the ubuntu default)

---

### Post by yoma819 on 2008-09-03
ok i did 
sudo apt-get install zsh
it installed
then:
yoma@yoma-laptop:~$ cd Desktop
yoma@yoma-laptop:~/Desktop$ zsh rotate.sh
rotate.sh:4: parse error: condition expected: =
yoma@yoma-laptop:~/Desktop$ 

i am assuming i have to type zsh rotate.sh to run the script otherwise it tries to use bash!

thanks
--yoma

---

### Post by yoma819 on 2008-09-03
ok i have tried this method:
[http://ubuntuportal.blogspot.com/2007/02/how-to-setup-pivot-screen-rotation-with.html](http://ubuntuportal.blogspot.com/2007/02/how-to-setup-pivot-screen-rotation-with.html)
unfortunately i got the same result as i did before
that is, the laptop crawled to a dead stop and it cliped etc but it worked
i dont know why the rotation of my screen caused so much loss of system resources!
????
very confused

---

### Post by solar george on 2008-09-03
Right download the script from here.

In my experience rotation is unreliable and will use large amounts of system resources but I've not got time to look further into this.

btw, the part of my last post which said "install zsh" was a link which should auto install zsh if you click on it,

---

### Post by yoma819 on 2008-09-04
yes i have got zsh installed and the new script works
i wonder how xp tablet edition got the screen to rotate with no further drain on system resources!
oh well i will just have to wait until someone finds a way!
thanks for your help!
thanks
yoma
oh there was one wuestion i had
the pen buttons on the side of the monitor and the buttons on the bottom, how do you bind keys to them?
the pen buttons seem not to be active by the way!
thanks yoma

---

### Post by solar george on 2008-09-04
> oh there was one wuestion i had
the pen buttons on the side of the monitor and the buttons on the bottom, how do you bind keys to them?
the pen buttons seem not to be active by the way!
thanks yoma 
The buttons on the side of the monitor don't work and you will have to look in help.ubuntu.com for information on keybindings for the bottom buttons - iirc gnome cannot tell them apart and treats them all as the same button.> i wonder how xp tablet edition got the screen to rotate with no further drain on system resources!
This will be a problem in the nvidia binary drivers which cannot be fixed by ubuntu devs

---

### Post by mulen7 on 2008-10-23
> **solar george said:**
> Paste it into a file.
Name it something like "rotate.sh"
Open a terminal and do:
```
chmod +x ./rotate.sh
```
Then add a launcher on the panel or associate that command with one of your screen buttons.



 Hi,

 I'm new to Linux (Ubuntu 8.04 and Toshiba M200), I followed the steps and I still couldn't get the rotation working. can u please help me?
thank you,
mulen7

---

### Post by mulen7 on 2008-12-05
I finally managed to get the rotation working. However, a new problem emerged, Full-screen videos have stopped working. 

 Please Help!!!!!!! 

thanks

---

