---
title: "pwmconfig produces defective /etc/fancontrol on Thinkpad R61i"
date: 2013-09-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by halfbeing on 2013-09-20
When I run pwmconfig in Raring on my Thinkpad R61i I hear it working and going through the various fan speeds, but it produces a defective /etc/fancontrol with missing minima and maxima:
```
# Configuration file generated by pwmconfig, changes will be lost
INTERVAL=10
DEVPATH=hwmon2=devices/platform/thinkpad_hwmon
DEVNAME=hwmon2=thinkpad
FCTEMPS=
FCFANS= hwmon2/device/pwm1=hwmon2/device/fan1_input
MINTEMP=
MAXTEMP=
MINSTART=
MINSTOP=

```

Fancontrol therefore won't start.

Currently the fan runs much faster than it did under Windows when it wasn't quite fast enough to cool the hard disk . Ideally I want a moderate degree of cooling somewhere between the two OS defaults. How can I achieve this?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2013-09-20
If you're getting the numbers you want when running pwmconfig, you can always put them into that file manually. I've only ever used that as a starting point.

---

### Post by halfbeing on 2013-09-22
Thanks for replying.

Is there a guide somewhere which can tell me how to choose safe values?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2013-09-22
pwmconfig and a piece of paper will help you choose initial values for the fan speeds.

In my well-ventilated desktop all of my temps stay between 30 and 50°C. A laptop's likely to run significantly hotter in general usage. There will be a maximum operating temperature in the specifications for each of the components in there, but the balance between temperature and noise is a personal preference. Conky displays my temps and fan speeds and, when I was setting up fancontrol, I'd monitor those whilst doing a variety of tasks and tweak for less noise or lower temps till I got a setup I was happy with.

---

### Post by halfbeing on 2013-09-22
That's still a little vague ;) I don't want to fry my hard disk because I intuited the wrong settings.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2013-09-22
Yes.

50-60 is probably reasonable for a laptop, but I personally wouldn't want one to go above about 75. But it's not my laptop, and it's not my ears, and it's not my lap that'll be cooking.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-09-22
Also try *thinkfan*.  It will give finer control over fan speeds.  For instance you can set temperature ranges for several sensors and ramp the fan up and down depending on how quiet you want it versus how toasty you allow your motherboard to run.  The bottom line, most thinkpads are noisy and will always be noisy.  Any slowdown of the fan to make it quiet will cause the temperatures to rise significantly.  Over time, this will shorten motherboard life.

[http://zmalltalker.com/zlog/thinkfan.html](http://zmalltalker.com/zlog/thinkfan.html)

---

