---
title: "8.04.1, res / colour depth and dell c400"
date: 2008-09-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mikeymikec on 2008-09-13
I've got the situation finally sorted now, but I would like to know what I might have done wrong, or what went wrong, because the whole experience was a bit bizarre.

I installed Ubuntu 8.04.1 from the normal CD today on my laptop, and while the installation went fine, I noticed that some colour dithering was going on with the default desktop background, and so I wanted to make it run in 24-bit colour.  (Res was fine, 1024x768)

I googled for what to change in xorg.conf, though what I found suggested I would just have to alter an existing setting under the 'Screen' section (here's the URL I found:  [http://www.ubuntux.org/reset-xwindows-color-depth](http://www.ubuntux.org/reset-xwindows-color-depth)) but the 'DefaultDepth' line just wasn't there (the laptop has the intel 830m graphics chipset), so I added it, saved and restarted.

Upon restart, it was running in 640x480, and asked me to re-set-up the graphics and monitor settings using a GUI.  I did this, but it still was running below 1024x768.  I tried going into system preferences to change the resolution there but it didn't give me 1024x768 as an option.

I opened up xorg.conf again and altered (IIRC) a default resolution option (the file looked completely different this time, like it had been re-written from scratch) to 1024x768 and restarted, and then res and colour depth were fine.

---

### Post by RtVD on 2008-11-11
Can i get you to post the relevant bits of an xorg.conf file for 830M chipsets?
I'm having issues with mine, and it might help to see a valid healthy one.

-RtVD

---

### Post by mikeymikec on 2008-11-12
> **RtVD said:**
> Can i get you to post the relevant bits of an xorg.conf file for 830M chipsets?
I'm having issues with mine, and it might help to see a valid healthy one.

-RtVD

I don't know enough to definitely say what bits are relevant and what not (though I could manage an educated guess).  Might it be a better idea for me to pm you the whole file?

---

### Post by RtVD on 2008-11-12
> **mikeymikec said:**
> I don't know enough to definitely say what bits are relevant and what not (though I could manage an educated guess).  Might it be a better idea for me to pm you the whole file?

Sounds like a plan, go ahead, I'm running 8.10 and the reconfiguring of xorg doesn't do video anymore, so I'm hunting down a working 830M xorg file :)

-RtVD

---

### Post by piroko on 2009-02-21
I'm using the 830M chipset in a desktop Emachine T2245 model, installed fine to my hard disk, and I get to the login screen, but when I login it loads the background and just stops and all I can do is move the cursor.
Previously I thought this was something to do with the APIC settings, after tinkering a while, all I could manage was to run it with the 'APIC off' setting from the live CD and it wouldnt recognize my keyboard.
I'd like to use ubuntu as my desktop OS if I can get it to load, from what I've read the 830M chipset is compatible with ubnuntu, so what am I doing wrong?

---

