---
title: "I dont think my graphics card is configured/installed"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by kripz on 2008-04-30
How do i configure my onboard graphics? 

I dont think its configured:

> **xorg.conf]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
[/QUOTE]

I would also like to increase the ammount of reserved video (from what i understand said:**
> [   26.075409] Linux agpgart interface v0.102
[   41.807497] agpgart: Detected an Intel 945GM Chipset.
[   41.808537] agpgart: Detected 7932K stolen memory.
[   41.824338] agpgart: AGP aperture is 256M @ 0xc0000000

My laptop uses an Intel GMA 900 / 945GM Chipset.

---

### Post by kripz on 2008-04-30
bump

---

### Post by pistos on 2008-05-03
As I understand it, under 8.04, that is what your xorg.conf is supposed to look like. Others more knowledgeable would be able to elaborate. But, my file looks exactly like yours and it is configured "correctly" in regards to my graphics card.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-03
Post the output of the following entered in a terminal to see if you're running the intel driver.
```
$ lshw -C video
```

---

### Post by kripz on 2008-05-03
```
  *-display:0 UNCLAIMED
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 03
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
  *-display:1 UNCLAIMED
       description: Display controller
       product: Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2.1
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.1
       version: 03
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0

```

I guess it is using the intel driver, is it possible to configure the ammount of video memory it uses?

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-04
The "UNCLAIMED" bit shows that the device hasn't been assigned a driver. You're likely running the standard vanilla **vesa** driver.

Pop up a text editor with superuser permissions and open that /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. Such as by hitting Alt+F2 to get a run box and then entering '**gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf**'. Save the file first as another backup file (naming it something like **xorg.backup0805**), then proceed with modifying the original one.

Scroll down to the device section that looks like the following, and add the line in bold.
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
**Driver "intel"**
EndSection
```
Save the file, save your work, then hit Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to restart X.

---

### Post by kripz on 2008-05-04
I did the above and it still says unclaimed. I tried Driver "Intel" and Driver "intel", no difference.

---

### Post by starcannon on 2008-05-04
> The "UNCLAIMED" bit shows that the device hasn't been assigned a driver. You're likely running the standard vanilla vesa driver.

Thanks man I been wondering about that, doesn't fix my confusion on my issue, but it at least gets me thinking in the right direction I hope. Won't go into it here, don't want to hijack.

---

### Post by kripz on 2008-05-07
bump

---

### Post by kripz on 2008-05-10
Cant seem to set the driver?

---

