---
title: "S.M.A.R.T. Data Conundrum. Opinions Please."
date: 2019-12-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2019-12-09
I have a 7 Ubuntu 18.04 LTS machines with the same specs including 4 - 1TB hard drives in arrays.  A few of the drives kept dropping out, I suspected that the power connection to the drive was not good since I could not feel the drive spinning. I fiddled with the power connections and got the drives to run reliably. Those problems seem to have been bad patch cables. I also decided to monitor the situation and see if the drive was at fault. On two of the drives I had began getting indications that the drives were failing due "Spinup Retry Count". I even bought replacement drives, however before I could get around to replacing them the S.M.A.R.T. data returned to normal and the "Spinup Retry Count" is now at 0. I'm using Gnome-disks to read the S.M.A.R.T data.

I know the safe thing to do is replace the drives but it also seems to me that the drives are actually fine. It seem that the S.M.A.R.T. date is reset from time to time, which I wasn't aware of until now.

What's you Opinion?

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2019-12-09
Cables will fail before most hard drives. A cable which is never moved, and is in only one position, can *still* fail.

Always, **always, ALWAYS** suspect connectors FIRST!

---

### Post by Autodave on 2019-12-09
I would think that the drives are just fine.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-12-09
SMART data that doesn't  show the "raw" values isn't useful to me.  
Spinup retries could definitely be caused by bad power connections.
Without seeing all the smart data, raw values too, cannot say what I think about the drives.
Bad/loose data cables usually show up with CRC errors.

---

