---
title: "10.04 &amp; logitech diNovo Edge Keyboard"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by meredin on 2010-05-04
Under 9.10 I was able to use the keyboard without any configuration it just worked out of the box!

however since upgrading to 10.04 this is no longer the case I'd decided to do a clean install as I'd added a lot of various programs to try them out etc. anyway the keyboard worked fine at the bio's level but once the installer took over I had to plug in a wired keyboard.to continue.

once installed it seemed simple to set it up with gnome-bluetooth it was recognized correctly and asked me to enter a pin from the keyboard which worked all was ok until I restarted the computer to make sure that the setting where remembered. they weren't! so I had to plug in the wired keyboard again. heading into gnome-bluetooth protuberances, the keyboard still shows up but as disconnected. according to the help you double click on a disconnected device in the list to reconnect it. however this doesn't work the only way I was able to reconnect it was by removing the old instance then running the set up new device dialogue again. 

the same thing happens if the computer goes to sleep.

searching the forums this seems similar to a problem in older realises
which could be fixed by editing the file "etc/default/bluetooth"

from HID2HCI_ENABLED=1 to HID2HCI_ENABLED=0

however this file just isn't there on my pc.

would this still work if I could find the new configuration file/s ?
if not could anyone give me any ideas on how to proceed?   

I would rather keep the keyboard but don't want to have to plug in a wired keyboard then un-install / re-install it every time the computer is turned off or goes to sleep!

any help is much appreciated! 


Nigel

---

### Post by Per Olav on 2010-05-05
I am experiencing the same thing, I've used the diNovo Edge bluetooth keyboard with 9.10 with no problems at all.

After ugprading (not reinstalling) to 10.04, I manually have to remove and re-add the bluetooth device under "preferences - bluetooth" every day when I come to work. 
I've set my computer to never go to sleep

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-05
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KeyTouch](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KeyTouch)

[http://awesomelinux.blogspot.com/2010/05/ubuntu-1004-lucid-logitech-dinovo-edge.html](http://awesomelinux.blogspot.com/2010/05/ubuntu-1004-lucid-logitech-dinovo-edge.html)

note: key words are "dinovo+lucid" with google :)

---

### Post by Per Olav on 2010-05-05
dino99 delivers!!

Thank you, works perfect for me.

---

### Post by meredin on 2010-05-05
Thanks dino99 I'll go have a look now!

Nigel

---

### Post by meredin on 2010-05-05
Thanks dino99 that worked like a charm! & thanks for the extra bit about the keytouch app!

---

### Post by likerice on 2010-06-05
Thanks so much!

---

### Post by jt_04 on 2010-07-04
i held off as long as i could upgrading to 10.04 because I knew it would break things.  thankfully this was an easy fix!!  thanks!

---

