---
title: "10.04 (lucid) touchpad and scrolling configuration"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by hnrkg on 2010-05-02
Hello.

Since I upgraded to lucid there have been some annoying behaviour while scrolling.

1. When I move my finger from the left to right side and (accidentally) touching the scrolling area (on the right side), the cursor jumps to the far right of the screen. This only happens when I am moving my finger into the scrolling area, a single (or double) tap in the scrolling area doesn't do anything.

2. This concerns 'continuous scrolling' (I think it's called). First: in 9.10 I hadn't continuous scrolling activated (by default?), in 10.04 it is. But this isn't the issue. To do a continuous scrolling you do a long stroke up/down or vice versa, and it continuous to scroll up/down. The problem is that it seems to continue to scroll until a tap/click is made. This often results in a in or out zooming of webpages in chrome, e.g.

First I scroll down a page, then I scroll up. And everything is fine. But when I am about to enter a different web address, using CTRL+L, the page zooms in (CTRL+scroll) continuously.

Now, how do I fix these behaviours? The gsynaptics tool ("Touchpad", under Preferences) doesn't seem to have any options for neither of these. And I am not familiar with the new udev rules, so I cannot change them either.

Or are these behaviours to be considered as bugs?

---

### Post by monkeys on 2010-05-06
I have the same first issue. Would like to see if anyone has any good responses.

I would like to note that I altered my settings in /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-synaptics.conf to specify my edge area:

> Section "InputClass"
	Identifier "touchpad catchall"
	MatchIsTouchpad "on"
	MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"
	Driver "synaptics"
	Option "RightEdge" "5910"
EndSection

Section "InputClass"
	Identifier "Dell Inspiron embedded buttons quirks"
	MatchTag "inspiron_1011|inspiron_1012"
	MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"
	Driver "synaptics"
	Option "JumpyCursorThreshold" "90"
	Option "AreaBottomEdge" "4100"
EndSection

Section "InputClass"
	Identifier "Dell Inspiron quirks"
	MatchTag "inspiron_1120"
	MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"
	Driver "synaptics"
	Option "JumpyCursorThreshold" "250"
EndSection

Section "InputClass"
	Identifier "HP Mininote quirks"
	MatchTag "mininote_1000"
	MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"
	Driver "synaptics"
	Option "JumpyCursorThreshold" "20"
EndSection

---

### Post by abdusamed on 2010-05-11
how can swtich desktop with only using the scroll whell?

---

### Post by wally_west on 2010-05-12
Same problem here on my ASUS G1S. As soon as I cross the edge between the moving and scrolling areas the cursor jumps by several 100 px. It doesn't matter from what direction this edge is crossed.

---

### Post by wally_west on 2010-05-19
Bump

---

### Post by monkeys on 2010-06-08
Really? No one else has found this issue, or a fix for it?

---

### Post by hnrkg on 2010-06-09
I consider filing a bug(s) on Launchpad. Maybe during the day...

---

### Post by hnrkg on 2010-06-09
Bug is now filed: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/591656](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/591656)

---

### Post by monkeys on 2010-06-15
Thank you!

---

### Post by irv on 2010-06-15
Try this it works for me. I was going to disable my pad, until I tried this. Set the mouse scroll to two fingers. I love it.
[ATTACH]160532[/ATTACH]

---

