---
title: "5.1 Sound Issues in 10.04- HELP!"
date: 2010-12-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nickleboyblue on 2010-12-19
Hello there!

I need some help with the audio setup on my Ubuntu 10.04 box.

Hardware:
1: AC'97 ***patible motherboard.
2: Dell Altech Lansing ADA995 5.1 speaker system.

Problem #1: The audio clicks, pops, and rumbles often.  When I move my mouse, I hear audio feedback even when the speakers are muted.  The only way to keep the speakers silent during use is to turn them off.  The volume through Ubuntu works intermittently.  When it doesn't work, the speakers have a constant volume, and when volume is adjusted in Ubuntu, the speakers issue a high-pitched hiss.  The only settings I have ever gotten the speakers to work in are "5.1 analog audio output" with analog output with amplifier, but it only worked for one user session.

Problem #2: Using VLC, I have recorded several videos that have 5.1 (i.e. 6 channel) surround sound.  While watching these videos, I have a difficult time getting all the channels to work.  The center channel is the biggest problem because it plays at an extremely low volume.  I suspect that this is a problem with Pulse, Gstreamer, VLC, or lastly, the motherboard, though AC'97 audio IS enabled in the BIOS.

Questions:
-How do I get the speakers to work without humming when I move the mouse and without hissing when not placed at the ideal system volume?

-How do I get the front center speaker to play at the correct volume?

-How do I test to see if all the speakers are functioning correctly?

-How can I make the correct settings for audio work even after a restart of the ***puter?

Thanks a million for any and all help that you can give.
(I am new to writing in forums, so if this is in the wrong location and you are a moderator, please put it where it belongs).

EDIT:  I ran lspci and found out that the sound controller is a VIA audio controller and that it is using the VIA 82xx audio driver.

---

### Post by nickleboyblue on 2010-12-19
Just a funny question, why do the letters "c," "o," and "m" when typed in that order get replaced with *** every time they are found in a post right now?  Just a bit annoying...

---

### Post by daqron on 2010-12-19
> **nickleboyblue said:**
> -How do I get the speakers to work without humming when I move the mouse and without hissing when not placed at the ideal system volume?
Howdy. Not an expert on this stuff so I'll leave most of your questions to the professionals. For the humming, I would start by first muting all inputs (line-in, mic, CD-ROM devices, etc.). If that helps, unmute them one by one to see what the culprit is. Could be a bad ground somewhere in the wiring. You can do that through the sound preferences, or through alsamixer on the c[COLOR="Black"]o[/COLOR][COLOR="Black"]m[/COLOR]mand line.

The c-o-m issue is being discussed [over here]("http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1648562"). I have just been enclosing the "o" in [color=black] bbcode :)

---

### Post by nickleboyblue on 2010-12-20
*bump*

(Sorry, I don't often do that)

---

