---
title: "Hardware video acceleration with Mobile Intel 945GM Express (HP 530)"
date: 2008-08-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tnek on 2008-08-15
Hi,

I bought a HP 530 and installed a bare bones system using the mini.iso for the Hardy release.

Since then I've installed xorg, fluxbox, firefox, mesa-utils and their dependencies - nothing more. 

My graphics is working pretty well, except for hardware acceleration. My resolution is 1280x800 as it should be. I would like to get hardware acceleration working but I don't know how. It's not working at the moment, as I can tell from glxgears which is running very slow.

My graphics chipset is Mobile Intel 945GM Express. All help is appreciated.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-08-15
> **tnek said:**
> Hi,

I bought a HP 530 and installed a bare bones system using the mini.iso for the Hardy release.

Since then I've installed xorg, fluxbox, firefox, mesa-utils and their dependencies - nothing more. 

My graphics is working pretty well, except for hardware acceleration. My resolution is 1280x800 as it should be. I would like to get hardware acceleration working but I don't know how. It's not working at the moment, as I can tell from glxgears which is running very slow.

My graphics chipset is Mobile Intel 945GM Express. All help is appreciated.

Hi and what is the amount of memory on the system? You may look at the amount shared with the intel graphics in bios and increase if you can. This may help. I have only used Fluxbox once so I can not be of much help.

---

### Post by convert_mrta on 2008-08-15
Hi Tnek,

I have similar questions about accelleration.  I first discovered the problem when trying to run GL screensavers.  Helios runs real slow.  Not that screensavers are critical, but this indicates that perhaps I could get better video display if I used the best drivers (and acceleration) 

From the previous thread, I ran those two commands recommended and got

laptop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf | grep Driver
	Driver		"kbd"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Driver		"synaptics"

laptop:~$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: Yes

I couldn't help noticing that your results for "glxinfo | grep direct" dumped a screen full of details.  All I got was "Yes" :confused:   Seems apparent that I'm not getting accelleration either.  Ditto -- how to turn on accelleration?

My initial plan was to go to the vendor and download the latest driver for the card.  Device manager, I would have thought would tell me what version I now have.  Sadly no.  (Ubuntu's Dev Mgr is not up to Win32's in information and functionality).

So I'm going to putz around Intels site, hope I can find a better driver, maybe figure out how to turn on accelleration in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by convert_mrta on 2008-08-15
Just came from Intel....on the Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller  Their info is that Linux distro "typically" come with the driver installed (latest ??) 

And they provide a manual how to compile your own.  Way beyond my level.  So the question remains how to turn on accelleration.

---

### Post by tnek on 2008-08-15
My BIOS doesn't give my the amount of shared ram. I think I need to change my [FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2]xorg.conf[/SIZE][/FONT] to resolve this problem, but I don't know how. I have tried [FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2]sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg[/SIZE][/FONT] without any luck.

Here is my [FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2]xorg.conf[/SIZE][/FONT]:
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "se"
    Option        "XkbOptions"    "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by tnek on 2008-08-15
convert_mrta, in your case it glxinfo says you have hardware acceleration turned on, and yet you have problems. What's similar in your case and mine is that neither of us has any Intel driver for our graphics cards.

There isn't a problem with your command output, you wrote glxinfo | grep Driver and I only did glxinfo and posted the whole output. The grep part is just a way to display only the lines containing the word Driver.

---

### Post by convert_mrta on 2008-08-15
You're right glxinfo gave me much more info.  I did a search in my Synapic Package manager for "intel video"  I find I have drivers installed but none specifically match my card  They are all for ixxxx series of drivers.  Not ours.

X.Org X server -- i740 display driver 
This package provides the driver for the Intel i740 family of video chipsets.

X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display driver 
This package provides the driver for the Intel i8xx and i9xx family
of chipsets, including i810, i815, i830, i845, i855, i865, i915, and
i945 series chips.

X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display driver 
This package provides the driver for the Intel i8xx and i9xx family
of chipsets, including i810, i815, i830, i845, i855, i865, i915, i945
and i965 series chips.

During this research I found a tremendous video resource - Comprehensive Multimedia & Video How-to at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683&highlight=video+driver](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683&highlight=video+driver)

You might want to check it out.  I was stunned by all of the questions I have that he /she answered. 

I went through the whole thing but found nothing on our specific (or general accelleration) accelleration problem.  As ubuntu-freak seems to know a HECK of a lot about video, I'm thinking of posting an inquiry directly to him.

---

### Post by tnek on 2008-08-15
Hi again!

Still no progress for me. :-(

I think we have the driver we need inside the package xserver-xorg-video-intel and that we just need to enable it in xorg.conf. I would think i945 chipsets must include 945 GM Express, and that i simply stands for Intel.

I hope someone is able to help us.

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-08-15
Hi, thanks for the compliments and all, but I'm not sure I can help here.
 
Intel-based graphic chipsets ALL use open source drivers in GNU/Linux, so no point going to the Intel website. Also, I don't think you need a specific "xxxx" series driver for your chipset, as they've switched to just calling it "intel" for some time now.
 
Anyway, it should all be accelarated by default, so I'm not sure why you're having such issues. The only problem I ever had with an Intel chipset, was that I didn't have accelerated video (Xvideo) while desktop effects were enabled in System > Preferences > Appearance > Effects, but even that was fixed with subsequent updates.

---

### Post by tnek on 2008-08-17
For me, I installed a bare-bones system using the mini.iso, after which I installed xorg and fluxbox myself. Maybe there is some kind of hardware detection application which configures xorg.conf correct which I haven't run.

Which Ubuntu flavor and version have you installed convert_mrta?

I will download a normal Ubuntu hardy installation CD and boot into the live environment using it. Then I'll check if I have hardware acceleration using it. If not I'll install the normal Ubuntu hardy CD and see if I have hardware acelleration after that. If I have it I'll post my xorg.conf here and maybe we can get something working.

Some questions for someone who might know:

It seems that "all" video drives are installed when installing the xorg package. At least there are lots and lots of packages named xserver-xorg-video-<somebrand> where <somebrand> may be intel.

How do I know which video drivers I have installed? And what to write in xorg.conf to use them?

Is it important to detect the correct monitor? It says generic at the moment.

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-08-17
I think from Hardy onwards, xorg.conf doesn't say which driver it's using, it just says "Autodetect" now. There's a terminal command which tells you which driver you're using, but I can't remember what it is, sorry. Have you tried booting into Recovery Mode and using "xfix"?
 
"Generic" for the monitor/screen-type is fine.

---

### Post by convert_mrta on 2008-08-17
Tnek, I installed Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron.  Desktop is the default Gnome 2.22.3

---

### Post by tnek on 2008-08-17
Hi again,

Thank you for trying to help us out ubuntu-freak!

I've reinstalled now and I'm using the same version as you convert_mta, Ubuntu 8.04 - Desktop Edition. Hardware accelleration is working for me now.

Unfortunately after a short view my xorg.conf seems to look the same. I see no driver mentioned, nothing about Intel. Just like ubuntu-freak said.

This means I don't know how to fix it for me from a bare-bones installation yet. I think we need the same fix.

It's in the middle of the night at the moment and I can't research further today. I'll get on to ubuntu-freaks suggestions this week. Bye for now! :-)

---

### Post by Hibbelharry on 2008-08-18
Hi People,
just some short comments for convert_mrta: 
Everything seems alright at your Box. Video Acceleration is working for you ! 

In short words for your Explanation: 
glxinfo is a tool which outputs lots of information about the current State of the (Open) GL Extension for X11, short GLX. The | sign states that all the output of the command before the | should be used as Input for the next command. This is called a pipe. Grep is a filter which basically just outputs the Line with the term followed by grep. So you don't get all information, you just got this filtered result:

Direct Rendering: yes

Direct Rendering Presence tells us that Programs using the GL Extensions for X11 (short GLX, any 3D Program on Linux) are able to directly render to the Graphics Card. So this means Hardware Acceleration is working !

You mentioned Video Acceleration, but I believe it's any Graphics Acceleration done by Hardware you meant. If we talk about real Video Acceleration concerning Xv (X11 Video Extension) you should be alright if 3D is working properly like it's the case for you. Murdering Xv Acceleration when 3D works fine is a rather hard piece of work.

Hope that clears some of your questions.

A note: X11 (The Graphical Environment used in Linux) produces quite a lot of debugging Output everytime it is started. See the textfile /var/log/Xorg.0.log for your information. It's pretty verbosecKen
.

Another note: The driver for any Intel Graphics Hardware is the same. There are no chipset specific drivers, it's unified and comes preinstalled by default. Autoconfiguration works pretty well nowadays and changes are mostly unneeded.

I won't recommend doing a basic install and adding wanted tools. It's mostly a better idea to strip down a normal install because pimping up a basic install to any higher level often leaves pieces unconfigured. That's a more or less known problem but not really easy to change for developers, so no cure in sight here.

Greets
Hibbelharry

---

### Post by convert_mrta on 2008-08-19
It was actually tnek that posted the output of glxinfo. Here's to top of mine. I see the direct rendering = yes, too.

So I guess tnek and I are both getting the best out of our displays that we can.

greg@laptop:~$ glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group
client glx vendor string: SGI
client glx version string: 1.4
client glx extensions:

---

### Post by tnek on 2008-08-27
>  So I guess tnek and I are both getting the best out of our displays that we can.
Well I'm not when I'm using a bare bones install, as mine says no for direct rendering. :-) It does work when I install the "normal" Ubuntu.

It's not what I want though, I want to know why it doesn't work using a bare bones install and how I can get it to work. I see it as much as a learning exercise as I want to achieve what I set out to do. :-)

I am in need of some help. I can't understand why hardware accelleration works using a normal Ubuntu install, and yet my xorg.conf seems the same as for my bare bones system. As has been said, it must be configured somewhere else. But where? And how? I'll look into those question more when I get som free time. It's quite hectic at the moment.

---

