---
title: "Pulse audio temp files"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jefelex on 2011-10-16
I've been searching in vain for an explanation of why there are so many (10) pulse-shm-* files in /dev/shm totalling 896Mb and also 3 other pulse-* folders in /tmp?

I have lots (4gb) memory, so I don't think it affects the performance. but this has been bothering me for a long time and I have never had a plausible explanation for their existence! If I delete them, the sound still works fine - even while the application is playing audio and they are not regenerated again - so it is quite a puzzle

What is the reason for these files to exist, and are they generated by the pulse subsystem or the application that uses sound - in my case VLC?

John

---

### Post by jefelex on 2011-10-18
> **jefelex said:**
> I've been searching in vain for an explanation of why there are so many (10) pulse-shm-* files in /dev/shm totalling 896Mb and also 3 other pulse-* folders in /tmp?

I have lots (4gb) memory, so I don't think it affects the performance. but this has been bothering me for a long time and I have never had a plausible explanation for their existence! If I delete them, the sound still works fine - even while the application is playing audio and they are not regenerated again - so it is quite a puzzle

What is the reason for these files to exist, and are they generated by the pulse subsystem or the application that uses sound - in my case VLC?

John

No one has any ideas on this?

---

### Post by 1969mets on 2011-10-21
Can someone advise me on how to have all temp files removed at boot on my 11.05 ?

---

