---
title: "Is an Itronix ATI graphics card different?"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Nathan M on 2009-04-24
Got an Itronix laptop here that for some reason will
not run Ubuntu 8.10 . when starting the live CD, It'll
boot to the desktop, but I can't click on anything.
Also the curser moves in a very choppy fashion.

Supposedly Intrepid Ibex should detect my card and
use the open source driver. Instead when I installed
it using safe graphics mode, it used the vesa driver.

I've run Gutsy(7.10) with no problems, and from looking
around in all the posts here, it seems at least a few
people got their ATI 9000 cards running.

Running "lspci -nn | grep VGA" gives this:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies
Inc Radeon RV250 [Mobility FireGL 9000] [1002:4c66] (rev 02)

And here is my xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Tried changing the driver name above to ATI and rebooted
to a lovely hi-res login screen that froze when I moved
the mouse.

Also ran "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" but
it created the same xorg.conf file.

Any ideas? Thanks.

---

