---
title: "Ub 12.04 Problems Toshiba Satellite Pro 775D-S7135"
date: 2012-04-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by osmanb on 2012-04-30
Ubuntu 12.04 installed ok. At first I did not notice any problems except the "shutdown" would end up re-starting unless I pushed the turn-off button. But now sometimes after a boot-up, the keyboard is not recognized and I cannot type in my password. If I push the off button and wait for re-boot sometimes it seems to work.
Anybody has any ideas?  I tried quite a few of the ubuntu derivatives, end up with same result.
I don't think the older versions work at all.
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by osmanb on 2012-05-01
I found that similar problem (no keyboard/touchpad) in Arch linux forum with a fix:
to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst  and add 
i8042.numux=1 i8042.reset nomodeset quiet vga=0       options to the kernel line
But I cannot find menu.lst in that location. How can I do same thing for ubuntu 12.04???
Thanks

---

### Post by Greenborn on 2012-06-04
I am having the exact same problem you are on my Toshiba L775D-S7222 Satellite and Ubuntu 12.04.  I have not been able to find a fix for it either.  I have to keep rebooting until the keyboard gets power- usually 3 or 4 times.  

I have searched the Internet over and over but no answers.  Have you found a fix yet?

---

### Post by hummingway on 2012-08-03
Anyone getting anywhere with this? I'm wrestling with it myself.

---

### Post by hummingway on 2012-08-03
> **osmanb said:**
> I found that similar problem (no keyboard/touchpad) in Arch linux forum with a fix:
to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst  and add 
i8042.numux=1 i8042.reset nomodeset quiet vga=0       options to the kernel line
But I cannot find menu.lst in that location. How can I do same thing for ubuntu 12.04???
Thanks

menu.lst has been replaced by /boot/grub/grub.cfg. I wonder if the line should go in /etc/grub.d/40_custom ?

---

### Post by hummingway on 2012-08-03
I don't know if you folks gave up but so far it seems to have fixed my problem. I'll post back here if, after a suitable time, it seems a solution.

---

### Post by hummingway on 2012-08-16
It didn't solve it but I'm still working on it. I've PM functions off and most of the time boot with keyboard and mouse.

---

### Post by llanitedave on 2012-08-17
Same computer, but a different problem:  random hard freezes, where everything comes to a halt, including the screen cursor and the clock.  Only a reboot by holding down the power switch clears it up.  Seems to happen one or two times a day.

---

### Post by hummingway on 2012-08-17
Are you working on the computer when it happens or inactive? I ask because the PM tools have been problematic. I have mine turned off and am working on the boot issues.

---

### Post by hummingway on 2012-08-17
I've run fwts and see this. I can\t help but wonder if this is significant given the power problems people have faced.

00116 klog            Test 1 of 1: Kernel log error check.
00117 klog            FAILED [HIGH] KlogACPIWarningOptionalFieldhasZero: Test 1, HIGH Kernel message
00118 klog            : [ 0.000000] ACPI Warning: Optional field Pm2ControlBlock has zero address or
00119 klog            length: 0x0000000000000000/0x1 (20110623/tbfadt-560)
00120 klog            
00121 klog            ADVICE: An ACPI table contains Generic Address Structure that has an address
00122 klog            that is incorrectly set to zero, or a zero length. This needs to be fixed.

---

### Post by hummingway on 2012-08-19
**Re: Keyboard and Touchpad Problem** 			
 			 			 		   		 		 		I have solved my keyboard and touchpad problem which seems to have solved the shutdown and reboot problem as well. 

This page: [https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php...te_L775D_S7340]("https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Toshiba_Satellite_L775D_S7340")

contains the solution for grub. Applying it to grub2 you can add  "i8042.nomux=1 i8042.resetd" to the kernel boot line in  /boot/grub/grub.cfg

---

### Post by sslkalpesh on 2012-10-04
This solution of adding "i8042.nomux=1 i8042.reset" worked for me and I have grub2. Here are the steps to add it

[http://neopatel.blogspot.com/2012/10/ubuntu-1204-toshiba-satellite-l875d.html](http://neopatel.blogspot.com/2012/10/ubuntu-1204-toshiba-satellite-l875d.html)

---

### Post by JJonesM4L on 2012-10-05
> **llanitedave said:**
> Same computer, but a different problem:  random hard freezes, where everything comes to a halt, including the screen cursor and the clock.  Only a reboot by holding down the power switch clears it up.  Seems to happen one or two times a day.
Wow I am having the exact same problem, but for me it happens while I am on the web using wireless router. Complete hard freeze. Do you know if there is a fix? When I go to my college and connect to the wireless network there, it doesn't freeze up only when I am at home. I am using a Toshiba Satelite C855D-S5203

---

