---
title: "11.04 64bit + AMD-A6-3650 + fglrx = chaos"
date: 2011-08-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Astralix on 2011-08-15
Hi all,

I am out of ideas :mad:

Running ubunut 11.04 on an AMD A6-3650 is really fun, unless the point where you need 
some graphics.

I stumbled upon web pictures, showed with not really matching aspect ratio. So I tried using System-Settings / Monitor but the monitor data is not available.
Ok, I punched together a more or less working xorg.conf together but aspect ratio is still not perfect and the picture is not sharp as the resolution doesn't really match (1400x1050 instead of 1440x900)

The installation of the proprietary fglrx driver always ended in a desaster. I tried several instructions spread on the web but even it works sometimes it then gets more and more unstable, not to tell of the many times it ended with a black screen.

Now I need to use some VMs and tried virtualbox-ose from the packages. While the fglrx driver was working ( a bit) it looked good. Now, as I had to remove it, as the windows where behaving randomly and so on, vbox isn't even showing a startup/config window anymore.
I installed virtualbox-4.1 but it only claims about missing fglrx config.

Reading the kernel news I hope for 3.x.x and ( in 60 days ?) a new ubuntu version...

So simple question:
Has anyone get a working compbination of natty (+ custom kernel) + AMD A6 + fglrx and a descrption to follow to get that all working?

I can provide any log/dmesg whatever you need. 

And yes, I do not blame ubuntu for that mess, the chipset showed up right the time of releasing of 11.04. So it couldn't have been implemented.:P

Best regards
Astralix

---

### Post by 905jay on 2011-09-20
same issue bro...nobody seems able to help. 

AMD A6 3650
ASUS F1A75-M Pro MoBo
8 GB DDR3


install fglrx drivers...what a mess. Black screen only. Tried to install Linux 3.0...disaster..only get a black screen. I will also upload any logs necessary if anyone can help. Thanks!

---

### Post by Mikorist on 2011-10-24
> **Astralix said:**
> Hi all,

I am out of ideas :mad:

Running ubunut 11.04 on an AMD A6-3650 is really fun, unless the point where you need 
some graphics.


i have black screen now with  11.10 ...

unfortunately currently solution is to use other video card

---

### Post by jacknirons on 2011-10-31
hey guys, had anyone used this drivers after the upgrade to 11.10 and could say if it now works or not?
i really dont like to test it myself to run once again in the some nice black screen ;)

---

