---
title: "[11.10] Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 771/671 PCIE VGA Display Adapter"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Mario14125 on 2011-10-15
Welcome.
I have a problem. I have a FUJITSU SIEMENS ESPRIMO Mobile v5535 laptop, installed when you install everything very well, play music, videos play without a problem but I have a problem regarding the graphics. Now this I have integrated graphics **Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 771/671 PCIE VGA Display Adapter**, and here begins my problem because the Polish posted a helpful forum that there is no support for my graphics card and nothing can be done. With drivers for Windows I had a beautifully clear screen and now I have the impression that is blurred and huge. Can someone help me?

Greetings from Polish.

---

### Post by Neill_R on 2011-10-15
I too am having display problems and i have an motherboard integrated SIS VGA card.

neill@Charles-Ubuntu:~$ lspci | grep VGA
00:0b.0 VGA compatible controller: S3 Inc. 86c968 [Vision 968 VRAM] rev 0
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 661/741/760 PCI/AGP or 662/761Gx PCIE VGA Display Adapter
neill@Charles-Ubuntu:~$ 

I have a DELL 17 inch monitor attached and by going to Display I can adjust the resolution 1280x960 (4;3) so if you try the doing the same Look under system settings (displays) Equivalent to right click on desktop in windows Xp and choosing the settings tab) Hope that solves you problem

---

### Post by Mario14125 on 2011-10-15
But the point is that I have currently a very large screen blurry and I have no possibilities to reduce the smaller. My screen looks exactly 800x600 (as if only after installation), please help because it looks really tragic.

---

### Post by dether on 2011-10-27
Hi,

I've got the same Notebook with the same rubbish of a graphics chipset and of course I've got the same problems since my first installation of Ubuntu (I believe, it has been 7.10 or such). On Linux the SIS 671/771 chipset has never been properly supported by Silicon Graphics and there is still no suitable driver in Ubuntu's repositories. But thanks to the great community I was always able to find a 2D-accelerated driver that gives me the native resolution of 1280x800 pixels.

With my Notebook I'm currently on Ubuntu 10.10 but I'm considering an update to 11.10. In order to do so, I'm now looking for an updated solution to my graphics problem again.  :roll:

So far I've come across this one:
[https://launchpad.net/~acasagrande/+archive/xf86-video-sismedia?field.series_filter=]("https://launchpad.net/~acasagrande/+archive/xf86-video-sismedia?field.series_filter=")

I think, I'll give it a try. Perhaps this one will work for you too.

Greets
Detlef

---

### Post by Elzigzag on 2011-11-14
> **Mario14125 said:**
> Welcome.
I have a problem... **Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 771/671 PCIE VGA Display Adapter**... no support ... Can someone help me?

Greetings from Polish.
  
Guys this issue is being talked here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=958967&page=77](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=958967&page=77)

I guess you should go backwards in that thread to get to the solution (it's different for each version ...)

---

