---
title: "12.04 ubuntu screen brightness is reset after the screen is unlocked"
date: 2013-03-16
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by vigneshm247 on 2013-03-16
hi gurus, 

I've a Ubuntu 12.04 installed in my samsung laptop. 

The screen brightness is reset after the screen is unlocked or when the screen goes to sleep and wakes up again. 

The screen brightness once set is not saved and is reset to the maximum. Which is quite annoying at times. Because I have to change the brightness level to the specified value every time. 

Is there a way to fix this issue. 

Regards, 
V

---

### Post by damystica on 2013-03-19
Same here.  I think Ubuntu should really focus on user experience too.  These damn nuisance is what driving me back to Windows.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2013-03-19
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/151651/brightness-is-reset-to-maximum-on-every-restart](http://askubuntu.com/questions/151651/brightness-is-reset-to-maximum-on-every-restart)

---

### Post by vigneshm247 on 2013-06-12
hi people, 


This is  a simple thing. very basic infact. the objective is to make the backlight be set a limit every time the system is booted. or woken up after it goes to sleep. 


I mean how hard can it be. 


Why is this problem not yet solved in ubuntu 12.04. 


given that this one is a LTS.


The problem is not yet solved


Regards, 
vigneshm

---

### Post by vigneshm247 on 2013-06-12
Hi, 

Found a temporary and limited solution for the problem, 

Have to edit the file.


gksudo gedit /etc/rc.local

then add the line


echo 0 > /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness

exit 0
this would make the brightness to be set to 0, every time the laptop wakes up or booted up. 

Coming to the limitation part. 

--> you have to manually edit the file every time you want to change the default value. It is hardcoded.

--> if you open the "brightness and lock" then the brightness automatically sets it self to the max.


Kudos, 

Vignesh M

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2013-06-12
> **vigneshm247 said:**
> ...Coming to the limitation part. 
--> you have to manually edit the file every time you want to change the default value. It is hardcoded...

Please see this: [Setting brightness at Ubuntu startup]("http://suhothayan.blogspot.pt/2012/05/setting-brightness-at-ubuntu-startup.html")

---

