---
title: "problems running a .run file in root"
date: 2010-07-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
As my username suggests I am new at this.  I installed Ubuntu 10.04 on my Sony VAIO VPCL 113FX (all-in-one desktop with touchscreen) that runs a NVIDIA GeForce G210M graphics card.  After getting past the inital installation issue of having a blank screen (I inserted "nomodeset" in the grub(?) file I discovered that I cannot install the Ubuntu NVIDIA graphic driver (it breaks my screen in half).  After hours on the forums I find that I probably need to install the new graphic driver - NVIDIA-Linux-x86-256.35.run.  It has to run in root.  I tried to this this through terminal and through something like gdm-stop (CTL-ALT-F2) but it both cases (after moving to the appropriate directory and chmod +x filename) it does not seem that my run command makes anything run.  The command line has a ">" symbol.  I type in the command (sh nvidia-linux-x86-256.35.run), press enter and I just get immediately to the next line with another ">" symbol.  Can someone please help me to run this file so that it actually sticks?  Thanks.

Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
Copy and paste this in terminal
```

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install nvidia-current  nvidia-current-modaliases nvidia-settings

```
I installed the driver using this repo


Moreover for manual installation u should first kill the x-server

For that press ctrl+alt+f1 and then log in
After that copy this code 

```

cd Desktop
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

```

and then install the driver

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
Thanks for the quick reply.  It seemed to run without error messges but I am still not out of the woods.  Now I get a NVIDIA x server configuration window (??) saying I need to modify the nvidia-xconfig file.  Can you or anyone else tell me how I modify this file and what commands I need to add?  Thanks very much; it appears we are making some progress...
Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
run

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

mark this thread solve if everything goes correct

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
tried it from the Terminal but I got command not found.  Thanks for the quick reply.  Any suggestions?

Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
During driver installation what u chose automatic or manual configuration?
Try from System->admin..->nvidia xserver settings.I never encountered this problem maybe u chose to  manually edit the xconfig file.Here is my xconfig file,yours will have different settings

> 
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 256.35  (buildmeister@builder101)  Wed Jun 16 19:25:59 PDT 2010

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7050 / nForce 610i"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "1440x900 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1440x900 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
Again, thanks for the quick reply.  I chose to do it the way you explained in your first reply with the following two commands in Terminal

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install nvidia-current  nvidia-current-modaliases nvidia-settings
That's all I did.  

Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
So its now solved?

i forgot to tell if that command didn't worked u may try

```

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman][FONT=sans-serif]/usr/lib/nvidia-current/bin/nvidia-settings[/FONT][/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman][FONT=sans-serif]/usr/lib/nvidia-current/bin/nvidia-xconfig[/FONT][/FONT][/COLOR]

``` 

but if its already solved forget about this,i also don know if this two work.

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
No, it's not solved; I still have poor resolution on my monitor and the computer will not work with the accelerated Nvidia driver.  I will try the two commands but how do I run them.  Do I use Terminal?  Do I have to write "sudo" before each command?  Please remember that I am a total novice (did not even know what Ubuntu was last week!).  I appreciate your patience...

Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
After installing the driver from the 1st method i.e from repo  you should run

```

sudo nvidia-xconfig

```and then reboot your pc.
Post the results.

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
Not solved.  I did what you said in the last post but again I get "command not found" after I put sudo nvidia-config

Any suggestions?
Thanks

Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
Sorry i posted a wrong code

it should be


sudo nvidia-xconfig


 i forgot to put 'x'

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
I edited the post.

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
I tried that too and still get command not found

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
run 


[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman][FONT=sans-serif]sudo /usr/lib/nvidia-current/bin/nvidia-xconfig[/FONT][/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
This is what I get after putting in your very last post

WARNING: Unable to locate/open X configuration file.

New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

Suggestions?

Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
Congrats  thats done,now reboot your pc and post what is happenning.The warning is because ur nvidia installer did not generate a xconfig file and thats a normal thing.Ignore that.

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
Not solved.  On boot up I get the following:


Ubuntu is running in low graphics mode
You may need to update your configuration file to solve the problem

(EE) Failed to load module "nvidia" (module does not exist,0)
(E) No drivers available.


Any suggestions?  Thanks.

Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
Boot into the low graphics mode and uninstall the nvidia driver.
U must have not uninstalled the driver u installed manually before installing from repo.
This has messed up.It always recommended to install from repo.
Goto System->admin->Synaptic .Search for nvidia and uninstall it and then reinstall everything u uninstalled there. Again run the command

sudo nvidia-xconfig,if this again fails go for the other command.(i said above)

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
I understand everything you said except this:  When you say "re-install" everything you mean by using the two sudo commands you gave me originally run in Terminal?

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
no not the two command run only this


sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-current-modaliases nvidia-settings

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
Again one thing i forgot,after uninstalling the the driver u restart ur pc and than reinstall

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
I just uninstallesd, reinstalled, rebooted and I got the same "running in low graphics" error message.  Also, when I access System >Preferences >Monitors I get:
 
[SIZE=3]**It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool.  Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?**[/SIZE]

When I choose Yes I get an  **nvidia x -server configuration**  window and the following dialogue box
[SIZE=3][B]
You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.[/B][/SIZE]

This is the same window I got before I started this thread.  Any thoughts?  Again, thank you very much for your time and patience.

Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
After reinstalling did u ran the command sudo nvidia-xconfig and rebooted.

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
This is what I just did:

  	 	 	 	 	 	  1. Uninstall
 2. reboot
 3. run the following command:
  **sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-current-modaliases nvidia-settings**
  4. Then run:
 **[COLOR=#000000][FONT=sans-serif]sudo /usr/lib/nvidia-current/bin/nvidia-xconfig[/FONT][/COLOR]**
  [COLOR=#000000][FONT=sans-serif]5. reboot[/FONT][/COLOR]
 
Got the same "low graphics" message on boot up...  Any more suggestions?
Thanks.

Nu-ub

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
By the way the command

sudo nvidia-xconfig

always gives a command not found response.  That might have something to do with it, no?

Nu-ub

---

### Post by ankit singh on 2010-07-10
Edit the xconfig file i have given to you and edit it as per your settings and save it as xorg.conf  in /etc/X11 directory and try.

its no more easy now to track  where is the problem occuring....u can start a new thread in the forum and wait for few days,someone who has faced this will tell u.
However the easiest way to get out of this mess(u must  have asked me about how should have uninstall the driver before  installing from repo,this is where everything started) is to  reinstall ur system and follow either of the following 2 steps:
 
 (hardest way)
 1)[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978)
Follow everything here in very carefully as this is manual install and  again u might end up at the present situation even after succesful installation .This is because after every kernel upgrade u must reinstall ur driver.Recommended for people who are pro


(easiest way)
2)After reinstalling system,install all the updates first.For this  System->Admin->update manager.Click on check updates.After that  click on install and update ur system.This will also update the repo
Now go to system->admin->synaptic and search for nvidia .There select the 235.xx version of nvidia and install it.

---

### Post by nu-ub on 2010-07-10
OK.  Thanks very much for your time and patience.

Nu-ub

---

