---
title: "acer 5920g multimedia keys ubuntu 10.04 lucid lynx"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Gatemaze on 2010-05-09
Hello.

I've installed 10.04 (from scratch) successfully on an Acer 5920g. Everything works fine except from the multimedia keys of the laptop. I've noticed that the signals transmitted from the multimedia keys are the same ones transmitted from a set of scroll-buttons that the laptop has (this is for those knowing the 5920g the cross-buttons below the touchpad and between the left and right buttons. I've also noticed that there is no xorg.conf (previously I was running 8.04). The reason I am saying this is that I've solved this problem previously when I was running 8.04 in the following way (see AcerMediaKeys):

Roughly,
backup your xorg.conf
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.original

edit the xorg.conf
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

to the following

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
#	Driver		"synaptics"
#	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
#	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
#	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
#	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
#EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"TouchPad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Protocol"	"event"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/eventtouchpad"
	Option		"MaxTapTime"	"100"
	Option		"MaxTapMove"	"220"
	Option		"AccelFactor"	"0.05"
	Option		"SHMConfig"	"true"
EndSection

# THIS IS FOR THE MULTIMEDIA KEYS
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"AcerMediaKeys"
	Driver		"evdev"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/eventkeys"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
#	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Inputdevice	"TouchPad"
# THIS IS FOR THE MULTIMEDIA KEYS
	Inputdevice	"AcerMediaKeys"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


Now do the following:
sudo gedit /etc/udev/rules.d/10-acersynaptics.rules

and paste the following:
SUBSYSTEMS=="input", ATTRS{phys}=="isa0060/serio4/input0", KERNEL=="event*", NAME="input/eventtouchpad"
SUBSYSTEMS=="input", ATTRS{phys}=="isa0060/serio3/input0", KERNEL=="event*", NAME="input/eventkeys"


Save and exit. I think this should be enough for the scroll buttons.

For the multimedia keys now to work.
Install xbindkeys
sudo apt-get install xbindkeys

Make them run at startup. The simplest is go to System->Preferences->Session

On your home directory
gedit ~/.xbindkeysrc

and paste the following (this is for exaile).
"exaile -t"
b:17

"exaile -s"
b:18

"exaile -p"
b:19

"exaile -n"
b:20


Restart and it should now be working.
I think that's all. There is also a post in the ubuntuforums from which I got the info. 


I was reading that despite the new xorg missing a xorg.conf, there is the possibility of having one and it would take priority. However, consindering that everything works, except the multimedia keys, I would prefer to not mess up with the current configuration but rather have something if possible on top of it. The way I see it I need to specifu somewhere that the multimedia keys are not the same ones like the scroll buttons...

Any directions or thoughts would be most appreciated.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Gatemaze on 2010-05-16
up

---

### Post by Gatemaze on 2010-05-17
Solution [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9315862&postcount=14") and [here]("http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=997860")

---

