---
title: "10.10 64x Keyboard and mouse work inconsistently."
date: 2011-07-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by altometer on 2011-07-21
Hello,

I am attempting to run Ubuntu 10.10 64x on the following laptop.
[Toshiba Satellite L775D-S7222(link)]("http://us.toshiba.com/computers/laptops/satellite/L770/L775D-S7222/")

The first time I started the laptop up however, I found that the laptop's keyboard and mouse were not responding. An external device worked flawlessly(was not plugged in during start-up) The keyboard/mouse worked fine during the installation process.

I booted to my usb installer drive again to attempt a re-install, however the keyboard/mouse didn't work here either! Several hours later, I attempted turning it back on just for giggles and the laptop worked flawlessly(minus the webcam/wifi but I am working on that).

Does anyone have any ideas? Searching the forums yields answers like "Add this to your xorg.conf" but I am running 10.10, no xorg.conf file to be found.

edit:
So, I found one consistency. When I plug a usb mouse then use that mouse to reboot the computer, I can remove the mouse during shut-down. When coming back up the built-in keyboard and mouse function like normal.

I am relatively sure this is just a weird config file issue. Now if there was only some way to lock it into "working" mode.

---

### Post by altometer on 2011-07-22
bump

---

### Post by altometer on 2011-07-28
Mark as Closed, I returned the laptop. This problem only exists because of Toshiba's rootkit having anti-tamper "features" that mess with linux.

---

### Post by vldmrrr on 2011-07-30
> **altometer said:**
> Mark as Closed, I returned the laptop. This problem only exists because of Toshiba's rootkit having anti-tamper "features" that mess with linux.

Hey, how did you arrive to such conclusion? 

I found a couple of problems with this laptop with 11.04, one is that built-in keyboard and trackpad do not respond sometime after boot. Another is that it freezes with black screen and backlight on when entering suspend to memory - no trace of problem in pm-suspend, the last line being "performing suspend".

So to me it all looks like bios related problems. Do you mean that you found evidence that there is some rootkit like functions in toshiba bios?

---

### Post by altometer on 2011-08-02
I did indeed, I was googling around and found a couple articles talking about rootkits on new toshiba laptops.
Blackscreen is from proprietary drivers. You need to go to AMD and download the drivers.

---

### Post by vldmrrr on 2011-08-03
> **altometer said:**
> I did indeed, I was googling around and found a couple articles talking about rootkits on new toshiba laptops.
Blackscreen is from proprietary drivers. You need to go to AMD and download the drivers.

I wish you've told this in original post. I also googled and found it right away. There are indeed BIOS based rootkits that are used by laptop manufacturers (Samsung seems to be aanother one). It is windows only, so since kernel is able to boot, there might be workaround. But I certainly would avoid using windows on this laptop for now. Thanks for the lead

link for those too lazy to google:
[http://blog.jitbit.com/2011/04/rootkit-on-brand-new-toshiba-laptop.html](http://blog.jitbit.com/2011/04/rootkit-on-brand-new-toshiba-laptop.html)

---

### Post by bbrg548 on 2011-11-02
I'm going to bump this thread because I'm having the same issue on a Toshiba Satellite L775D-S7305 laptop (AMD A6-3400M processor) in Ubuntu 11.10 (32-bit). The same USB mouse trick fixes it.

Are we sure it's the rootkit? From the description, I'm not sure that would cause this issue in linux (though I could be mis-reading it, or I could just be wrong). From the way the USB mouse trick works, I would lean more towards the OP's first theory of a setting somewhere, or possibly an issue with the integrated graphics on the processor, especially since the problem appears to kick in when the boot sequence switches from VESA graphics to the more advanced graphics before the login screen.

---

### Post by as2000 on 2011-11-02
> **vldmrrr said:**
> I wish you've told this in original post. I also googled and found it right away. There are indeed BIOS based rootkits that are used by laptop manufacturers (Samsung seems to be aanother one). It is windows only, so since kernel is able to boot, there might be workaround. But I certainly would avoid using windows on this laptop for now. Thanks for the lead

Am I wrong but does Toshiba use a special partition on the hard drive to hold extra commands? I had the same issue until I swapped out the hard drive and was able to load Ubuntu perfectly.

---

### Post by bbrg548 on 2011-11-03
> **as2000 said:**
> Am I wrong but does Toshiba use a special partition on the hard drive to hold extra commands? I had the same issue until I swapped out the hard drive and was able to load Ubuntu perfectly.

That's *VERY* interesting. When I installed I created a separate partition for misc files, and I noticed a couple of partitions I wasn't sure about. I know one is the Winblows 7 recovery partition, and one was a swap partition, but I believe there were a couple of others. Windows + recovery + Ubuntu + my extra + the others = 8 partitions, if I remember correctly.

It may be worth it for someone more knowledgeable than me to take a closer look.

---

### Post by vldmrrr on 2011-11-03
To update, I am happily using my toshiba laptop. After updating bios and kernel from back-ports on 11.04 the problem became so rare I would not even report it. When it happened I recovered from it by shortly pressing power button, which is set to put laptop to sleep and always works, and after going to sleep and waking another time the keyboard and mouse are back to life. 

It is currently running 11.10 and I am not even sure the problem ever happened after update.

---

### Post by bbrg548 on 2011-11-03
> **vldmrrr said:**
> To update, I am happily using my toshiba laptop. After updating bios and kernel from back-ports on 11.04 the problem became so rare I would not even report it. When it happened I recovered from it by shortly pressing power button, which is set to put laptop to sleep and always works, and after going to sleep and waking another time the keyboard and mouse are back to life. 

It is currently running 11.10 and I am not even sure the problem ever happened after update.

What bios and kernel versions are you running?

---

### Post by vldmrrr on 2011-11-04
> **bbrg548 said:**
> What bios and kernel versions are you running?
BIOS: Version: 1.40 Release Date: 07/22/2011
Kernel: 3.0.0-12-generic #20-Ubuntu SMP Fri Oct 7 14:56:25 UTC 2011 x86_64

---

### Post by vldmrrr on 2011-11-04
> **vldmrrr said:**
> It is currently running 11.10 and I am not even sure the problem ever happened after update.
Happened today when restarted after updating firegl graphic drivers -- booted right to non-responsive keyboard and mouse. Pressed powerbottun to put it to sleep, and after waking up all is working. Same as before

---

