---
title: "18.04 monitor connected to laptop keeps going off &amp; goes fuzzy/distorted on boot"
date: 2018-07-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by davidboom on 2018-07-29
I have a minimal 18.04 installation on a ThinkPad X240 with an AOC monitor plugged in via Mini DV.

When turning the machine on the monitor looks like in the video below and keeps turning off and back on:

[http://sendvid.com/8gaxbjkm](http://sendvid.com/8gaxbjkm)

If I unplug the mini DV and then plug back in the monitor display is fine.

How to fix? Was fine in 16.04.

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2018-07-31
Try to check the vga cable or the power cable. If not of those two try to reduce your screen resolution.

---

### Post by davidboom on 2018-07-31
It's neither of those - it ran flawlessly on 16.04 for 2 years. Does it on every boot - anyone else have any ideas?

Also the spec sheet says my graphics card is Intel HD 4400 but "lshw -c video" says:

description: VGA compatible controller
product: Haswell-ULT Integrated Graphics Controller
vendor: Intel Corporation

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2018-07-31
For multiple displays [Click Here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/stable/ubuntu-help/look-display-fuzzy.html.en")
Have you try it to another extended display, or another monitor?

---

### Post by davidboom on 2018-08-01
All the settings are correct, the resolutions are correct for the laptop and for the external display - if I unplug and replug it's fine too.

It's really annoying.

Unfortunately have no other monitor to test.

Is there any other support I can get on this? Where else can I ask?

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-08-01
Hello!

That appears to be either a hardware fault or a driver issue.

What Intel driver is in use?  It would be very helpful if you could beg, borrow or steal (NOT) a monitor from someone and see if the issue persists.

---

### Post by davidboom on 2018-08-01
*-display                 
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Haswell-ULT Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 0b
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:44 memory:f0000000-f03fffff memory:e0000000-efffffff ioport:3000(size=64) memory:c0000-dffff

---

### Post by davidboom on 2018-08-09
Anyone else with same issue - any fixes?? Driving me crazy! Other monitor tested has same result.

---

### Post by davidboom on 2018-09-19
Bumping this as it's still happening after all the latest updates, issue is intermittent now. Hasn't occurred for a few days and now back. It is really annoying - thnaks in advance to anyone who can help with this.

---

