---
title: "16.10 Trying to get SD Card Slot working on NUC6i5SYH"
date: 2017-01-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jason.m.langley on 2017-01-22
I have been searching the web for the last few days trying to figure out how to get the SD card slot on my Intel NUC6i5SYH (skylake i5) working.  Unfortunately I yet to find anything to even get started.  Anyone have any ideas?  I have included the output of lspci and lsusb below if that is helpful.


lspci output:
```
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Skylake Host Bridge/DRAM Registers (rev 09)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Iris Graphics 540 (rev 0a)
00:14.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP USB 3.0 xHCI Controller (rev 21)
00:14.2 Signal processing controller: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP Thermal subsystem (rev 21)
00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP CSME HECI #1 (rev 21)
00:17.0 SATA controller: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP SATA Controller [AHCI mode] (rev 21)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP PCI Express Root Port #5 (rev f1)
00:1e.0 Signal processing controller: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP Serial IO UART Controller #0 (rev 21)
00:1e.6 SD Host controller: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP Secure Digital IO Controller (rev 21)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP LPC Controller (rev 21)
00:1f.2 Memory controller: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP PMC (rev 21)
00:1f.3 Audio device: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP HD Audio (rev 21)
00:1f.4 SMBus: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP SMBus (rev 21)
00:1f.6 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation Ethernet Connection I219-V (rev 21)
01:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Wireless 8260 (rev 3a)
```

---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-01-22
Have you tried inserting an SD card into it that has something on it (at least a fat32 partition) and see if anything shows up in **dmesg** or **sudo fdisk -l** or **sudo parted -l**?

Since it is not internally USB connected, it may not be a /dev/sdx, it may be some other block device that you might not be able to boot from. At least that is the case for many SD slots in laptops. The card slot on a fairly recent laptop I checked is internally USB connected, but following is example of a an MMC block device that uses a Ricoh device on PCI instead of USB:```
efflandt@ssd80-1610:~$ sudo parted -l
Model: ATA INTEL SSDSA2M080 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 80.0GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End     Size    Type     File system  Flags
 1      1049kB  76.0GB  76.0GB  primary  ext4         boot


Model: SD SR256 (sd/mmc)
Disk /dev/mmcblk0: 253MB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos
Disk Flags: 

Number  Start   End    Size   Type     File system  Flags
 1      16.4kB  253MB  253MB  primary  fat16        boot
```It is just a tiny old microSD in SD adapter in SD card slot of an old laptop, but just to show you that you may need to look for something other than sd devices. In this case the first partition on it is /dev/mmcblk0p1.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-01-22
Welcome. Do you mean it's simply not reading the card? The reader is showing up fine. Is it a larger SD, say 32-64Gb?

Install exfat-utils and exfat-fuse, stick the card in (you may need a reboot) and see if it works now.

PS: Please use [code] tags for terminal output. See the green link in the first line of my signature at bottom of this post.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2017-01-23
Welcome to the Ubuntu Forums :-)

I have that kind of computer, the same NUC model, and the card slot works unusually well. I can even boot from it, both in UEFI mode and BIOS mode. So either your card reader or its connection is damaged, or the card is bad, or the file system on the card is damaged, or the file system is not understood by linux.

I agree with the tips in the previous posts, and would add that you ***connect your SD card to another computer and check the partition(s) and file system(s)***. In linux you can use the following command lines,

```
df
sudo lsblk -f
sudo lsblk -m
sudo parted -ls
```

Please put the output of the commands within [noparse]```
tags
```[/noparse] to make it easier to read: Click on the red button **[COLOR="#FF0000"]Go Advanced[/COLOR]**, mark the text and click on the **#** icon above the editing window (or do it manually), like this:

[noparse]```

your output line 1
line 2
line 3
...

```[/noparse]

Notice that you can mark (press the left button while moving the cursor) and paste (press the middle button or wheel to paste) from a terminal window to the editing box of Ubuntu Forums.

If the other computer runs Windows, and you cannot boot it with your Ubuntu install drive, you can use the ***corresponding Windows tools*** to see the check the partition(s) and file system(s)

---

### Post by jason.m.langley on 2017-01-23
Thank you (and the replies above), I have updated the original post with the Code tags (and will keep that in mind going forward).

To answer a few questions, I have 2 SD cards that I am testing and both work on my win10 laptop.  Both are FAT (I believe), one is for a dash cam (32 GB MicroSDHC w/ adaptor) and the other for a DSLR (64 GB SDXC).  At the end of the day I am looking for a plug and play type solution, where I can pop in an SD card it will just auto open a file explorer window.  That being said I would also live with having to manually mount the card.  I am not tying to boot with the card.

Using the info from your posts it does appear that the cards are being recognized, but not happily (mmcblk0).  The output below is with the 32GB card inserted, but I see very similar output for the 64GB card as well.
```
ME@computer:~$ sudo parted -ls
Error: /dev/mmcblk0: unrecognised disk label
Model: SD USDU1 (sd/mmc)
Disk /dev/mmcblk0: 32.2GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: unknown
Disk Flags: 




```

```
ME@computer:~$ sudo lsblk -m
NAME      SIZE OWNER GROUP MODE
loop1   110.1M root  disk  brw-rw----
sdd     465.7G root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9492;&#9472;sdd1  465.7G root  disk  brw-rw----
sdb     232.9G root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9500;&#9472;sdb5   29.8G root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9492;&#9472;sdb1  203.1G root  disk  brw-rw----
loop2    76.1M root  disk  brw-rw----
loop0      75M root  disk  brw-rw----
sdc     465.8G root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9492;&#9472;sdc1  465.8G root  disk  brw-rw----
sda       1.8T root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9492;&#9472;sda1    1.8T root  disk  brw-rw----
mmcblk0    30G root  root  brw-------
loop3     115M root  disk  brw-rw----

```

```
ME@computer:~$ df
Filesystem      1K-blocks      Used  Available Use% Mounted on
udev              8138068         0    8138068   0% /dev
tmpfs             1631976     19304    1612672   2% /run
/dev/sdb1       208556068   8645720  189246604   5% /
tmpfs             8159864    347164    7812700   5% /dev/shm
tmpfs                5120         4       5116   1% /run/lock
tmpfs             8159864         0    8159864   0% /sys/fs/cgroup
/dev/loop0          76800     76800          0 100% /snap/ubuntu-core/423
/dev/loop1         112768    112768          0 100% /snap/vlc/1
/dev/loop2          77952     77952          0 100% /snap/ubuntu-core/1357
/dev/sda1      1922728752 623808664 1201228032  35% /mnt/InternalHD2TB
/dev/sdd1       488352764 224126768  264225996  46% /mnt/BackUp500GB
/dev/sdc1       488264736 383744416  104520320  79% /mnt/PHOTOBOX
tmpfs             1631972        28    1631944   1% /run/user/113
none              8159864      1936    8157928   1% /tmp/guest-ojjjua
tmpfs             1631972       112    1631860   1% /run/user/999
tmpfs             1631972       112    1631860   1% /run/user/1000
/dev/loop3         117888    117888          0 100% /snap/vlc/4

```

---

### Post by sudodus on 2017-01-23
Yes the card is recognized as it should as **/dev/mmcblk0**, but no partitions and no file systems. It is possible that at least one of the cards has an exfat file system. Install exfat-utils and exfat-fuse, 

```
sudo apt-get install exfat-utils exfat-fuse
```

and check if it works better.

But there might also be a problem with the partition table alias 'disk label', which is what parted is complaining about. Do you know what kind of partition table it is? If it is a Windows 'dynamic disk', linux cannot see it correctly.

Which version of Ubuntu are you running?

---

### Post by jason.m.langley on 2017-01-23
Currently running desktop Ubuntu 16.10.  I will take a closer look at the partition tables this evening.  That being said when I attempted to open gparted with either of the card inserted this morning I was getting a ton of timeout errors.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-01-23
> **sudodus said:**
> ```
sudo apt-get install exfat-utils exfat-fuse
```



I said it earlier and sudodus has reiterated. This is probably all you have/had to do. You seem to have missed it. ;)

---

### Post by jason.m.langley on 2017-01-23
I think I did miss it.  Only had a few minutes for experimenting this morning though.  Excited to get out of work and explore this.  Getting the SD card slot working is the last thing I need to check off to make the computer fully wife approved.

---

### Post by jason.m.langley on 2017-01-24
Ok, I was able to install exfat-utils exfat-fuse last night, unfortunately it does not appear to have made a huge difference.  I also took the two SD cards back to my windows machine and confirmed the exact file systems.  The 32 GB card is FAT32 and the 64 GB card is exFAT.  Bit of a garbled post this morning but just trying to document what I have done for myself the next time I get to work on this.

The only difference I am seeing in the output of the suggested commands is lsblk where now the card is brw-rw---- rather than brw-------.
```

ME@computer:~$ sudo lsblk -m
NAME      SIZE OWNER GROUP MODE
loop1     115M root  disk  brw-rw----
sdd     465.7G root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9492;&#9472;sdd1  465.7G root  disk  brw-rw----
sdb     232.9G root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9500;&#9472;sdb5   29.8G root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9492;&#9472;sdb1  203.1G root  disk  brw-rw----
loop2    76.1M root  disk  brw-rw----
loop0   110.1M root  disk  brw-rw----
sdc     465.8G root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9492;&#9472;sda1    1.8T root  disk  brw-rw----
mmcblk0  59.5G root  disk  brw-rw----
&#9492;&#9472;sdc1  465.8G root  disk  brw-rw----
sda       1.8T root  disk  brw-rw----
loop3      75M root  disk  brw-rw----

```

Also tried the output of ```
sudo fdisk -l
``` but the SD card is not included in the output.

When I insert the 64 GB card in and fire up gparted it recognizes the card (partitions and sizes looks the same as windows storage management consul), but gives me these warnings in the information window:
Unable to detect file system! Possible reasons are:
- The file system is damaged
- The file system is unknown to GParted
- There is no file system available (unformatted)
- The device entry /dev/mmcblk0p1 is missing
[ATTACH=CONFIG]273353[/ATTACH]

When I insert the 32 GB card and try to use gparted it hangs for a long time "Scanning all devices..." then at "Confirming /dev/mmcblk0" where the error message "Input/output error during read on /dev/mmcblk0"...
[ATTACH=CONFIG]273354[/ATTACH]
(I hit Ignore)
then "Searching /dev/mmcblk0"...
[ATTACH=CONFIG]273355[/ATTACH]
(error pops up a bunch of times and I keep hitting Ignore)
Eventually it finishes up and I get an unallocated block.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]273356[/ATTACH]
Unfortunately I get a ton of errors when trying to use gparted to make a new partition table.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2017-01-24
Please post also the output of this command line (with the option [SIZE=3]-f[/SIZE])

```
sudo lsblk -f
```

It will show different information from what you have been showing before.

-o-

Let us find out if the card reader in you NUC is bad or if the operating system in the NUC is bad or maybe the file systems on the cards are just not compatible with linux.

- Were the cards formatted in the devices, they are dedicated to?

- Would you be ready to format one of the cards in linux (with gparted) just to check if it makes it work with linux in your NUC?

- Can you try to ***read the cards with linux in another computer*** for example your Windows 10 laptop? You need not install linux, only boot from a USB pendrive (or SD card ;-) ). See this link

[Try Ubuntu (Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Xubuntu, ...) before installing it](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2230389)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-01-24
Just a thought. Are you correctly ejecting these cards from the Windows machine? May be a dumb one, but just a thought. ;)

And as above from sudodus.

---

### Post by jason.m.langley on 2017-01-25
I have no idea what I did, but I think I got the SD card reader working.  Put the card into the machine today and Ubuntu asked what I wanted to do with it.  Opened the file explorer and it seems to work perfectly.  Confusing to say the least.  Anyways, thanks everyone for the help!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-01-25
It may be because you did the first reboot since you install exfat-fuse and exfat-utils, perhaps?

---

