---
title: "9.10 install Only sees one HD"
date: 2010-03-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by djailer on 2010-03-03
I am waaaay noob so please have patience.  Just started on Ubuntu a week ago.  I have searched some and cannot find anything on point.  I have a W2K Pro SP4 install on the slave D: drive.  It is partitioned into to parts.  C used to have my primary W2k but I changed out MB and lost it.  Both are IDE.  Anyway, I got a 320GB SATA HD and stuck it in there.  I figured this would be a good place to get my feet wet with Ubuntu.  Installed 9.10 easily enough.  It did give me some weird memory error over and over - I think it had four sets of 4-5 chars,  i.e.  7E777-F8773-FFE45-45343 (not the actual error - just my representation of what I think I remember.)  It installed fine and dual boots just great.  So...to the point.
Ubuntu can see the C: drive but doesn't see anything on the D: drive.The Palimpsest Disk utility  tells me it is 41 GB not recognized - unknown or unused.  That is the D drive where the above referenced working and stable W2K is installed.   It thinks it is not partitioned and is labeled as /dev/sdc.  fdisk -l tells me:

Disk /dev/sdc: 41.2 GB, 41174138880 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 5005 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x7aac7aac

This doesn't look like a partition table
Probably you selected the wrong device.

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1               1        2502    20097283+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sdc2   ?        2503        5005    20105347+   7  HPFS/NTFS

Help???
Doug

---

### Post by djailer on 2010-03-04
OK so now it won't boot to Ubuntu at all.  I get stuck in grub, I guess.  Don't know why and how to get it back?  I tried the 'boot' command but it says I need to load the kernel first.  I don't know how to do that....yet.

I just restarted my machine - like I always have done - and bam.... stuck!

Doug

---

### Post by djailer on 2010-03-05
Self help update...I don't know if this is good or bad:o.
I found what purports to be the command line boot process.  If I am doing things right I seem to be missing a file....initrd.img.  When I look in the initrd file I think there were four files there, but not initrd.img.  
I assume I have wubi installed since ls shows one of the drives as LOOP0, which seems unique to the wubi steps.  Here is what I followed:
```

ls

```this showed me all the drives it saw.  (LOOP0)(hd1)(hd1,1)((hd2)(hd2,1)(fd1) - I think those were it
```
set root=(hdX,Y)
```I tried hd1, hd2,1, hd2,hd2,1,LOOP0 for the drives but got the same result
```

linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sdxY loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro
```Again I tried all the combinations for the drive.  sr1, sdc1, sda1, sdb1
```

initrd /initrd.img
boot
```This resulted in a lot of lines of code but ended up with a kernel panic message and telling me it couldn't find anything to boot.  The drives it saw are listed in the previous code explanation.

Any ideas?

Doug

---

