---
title: "HP DV6-3167ca"
date: 2011-11-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Jalc57 on 2011-11-27
Hello,

I am new around here and but I have been reading over the forums for a while, I currently have a old Compaq Presario that I installed Ubuntu on with great success. I am loving the operating system and all of the feature that come along with it. Everything worked 100% out of the box after I installed the operating system and I was also able to configure my printer and such with ease. 
My question is about my new laptop, I bought a HP DV6-3167ca a few weeks ago that was left over from last year and I got an excellent deal on the laptop. I want to install Ubuntu on this system but I am afraid of the conflict that I will receive with the graphics cards that are installed on the laptop. The laptop uses switchable graphics with a AMD P940 processor and a Radeon HD 5650s graphics card. I am wondering if I install Ubuntu on this laptop will I face any issues or is there a workaround with Hybrid graphics in Ubuntu? I want to be able to do a clean install and only run Ubuntu on my laptop.

Thanks

---

### Post by Jalc57 on 2011-11-27
Anyone?

I have searched everywhere and I have not been able to come up with a conclusion about discrete graphics and being able to control them through Ubuntu. Is there any support for controlling on board and discrete graphics through Ubuntu? I have seen a proprietary driver that ATI has released, is this driver currently working for any users? I really do not want to switch back to the world of Microsoft.....

Thanks

Jason

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-11-29
Sorry, don't have the link handy, but if you do a search on "switcheroo" you will find threads where folks have had some success with working around the switchable graphics problem.

---

### Post by vv211 on 2011-11-29
go to your bios and change the graphics mode from dynamic to fixed. then go to your catalyst control center and choose the performance card

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-12-01
> **vv211 said:**
> go to your bios and change the graphics mode from dynamic to fixed. then go to your catalyst control center and choose the performance card

Do you actually have one of these? Or are you guessing?

Asking because, according the user manual for this PC, the ONLY way that the graphics mode can be switched is from INSIDE MS Windows.  You right-click on the Windows desktop and select an option that allows you to change graphics modes. There is no entry in the BIOS for changing graphics modes.

---

