---
title: "9.04 - dust on right screen with ATI Mobility Radeon X1300"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dungpt on 2009-05-04
2 all. i'm using IBM T60 with ATI X1300 (mobility radeon)
and after update to 9.04, my PC got some stranger effect , that dust line blink on the right screen.

so how can i fix it, and get better VGA driver?

---

### Post by dungpt on 2009-05-04
no one help?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-05-04
Hi and please do not bump so quickly, once a 24 hr period is acceptable.
I do not understand when you say "that dust line blink on the right screen."
I have seen many Ati users with issue in 9.04 Jaunty. Could you post a screen shot?

---

### Post by dungpt on 2009-05-05
Sorry for my Impatience
here's my screen short. you can see the white solid line on the screen (scrollbar).
these lines is running up and down when i move my mouse OR scrollbar.
[img]http://img91.imageshack.us/img91/8803/mailgooglecompor.jpg

---

### Post by dungpt on 2009-05-05
can you see that ?

---

### Post by dungpt on 2009-05-06
these dust line make me crazy :(
anyone can help?

---

### Post by crom.osec on 2009-05-06
Have you tried the drivers from [http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx) ?

I've noticed that is one available for your card.

I was able to install driver from that site for my ati radeon hd2400, so it should work also for you.

---

### Post by b6of12 on 2009-05-06
I have had props right and left with ubuntu 9.04 with a crad close to your cause the drivers for that card and mine are now open source and ati driver 9.3 dont work on ubuntu 9.04 nore do the  9.4 work on are cards sorry man go back to ubuntu 8.10 like I did thats the golden version for me :D
 
this is a list of the older drivers thay sent to legacy support
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.3.3.1&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.3.3.1&lang=English)


ps I feal your pain

---

### Post by dungpt on 2009-05-06
> **b6of12 said:**
> I have had props right and left with ubuntu 9.04 with a crad close to your cause the drivers for that card and mine are now open source and ati driver 9.3 dont work on ubuntu 9.04 nore do the  9.4 work on are cards sorry man go back to ubuntu 8.10 like I did thats the golden version for me :D
 
this is a list of the older drivers thay sent to legacy support
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.3.3.1&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.3.3.1&lang=English)


ps I feal your pain

yeah. i tried to install ATI Catalyst Display Driver, but itsn't work on Ubuntu 9.04 :(

really sad about it.

---

### Post by ssri on 2009-05-07
Well, if you want to eliminate those lines, you have to turn off compiz/desktop effects.  Your ATI card, like my Mobility Radeon x2300, is now considered legacy by the powers that be (ATI/AMD ](*,)), and the last fglrx to support it was 9.3.  Unfortunately, Jaunty uses xserver 1.6, which is supported by Catalyst 9.4.  If you want to have fully working compiz, you have to regress back to intrepid.  I tested out Jaunty's opensource ATI drivers on its livecd and in intrepid (from ppa's), and no matter how I hack xorg.conf, those "dust lines" continued to show on kwin (compiz equivalent in kde).  Sure kwin "works," but not the level I can deal with for daily use.  I never upgraded to Jaunty for this reason and will play the wait-and-see game these next few months to see if the opensource drivers improve to the level I am happy with.


Good luck!

---

### Post by dungpt on 2009-05-07
> **ssri said:**
> Well, if you want to eliminate those lines, you have to turn off compiz/desktop effects.  Your ATI card, like my Mobility Radeon x2300, is now considered legacy by the powers that be (ATI/AMD ](*,)), and the last fglrx to support it was 9.3.  Unfortunately, Jaunty uses xorg 1.6, which is supported by Catalyst 9.4.  If you want fully working compiz, you have regress back to intrepid.  I tested out the Jaunty's opensource ATI drivers on its livecd and in intrepid (from ppa's), and no matter how I hack xorg.conf, those "dust lines" continued to show up with kwin (compiz equivalent in kde).  Sure kwin "works," but not the level I can deal with for day to day use.  I never upgraded to Jaunty for this reason and well play the wait-and-see game to see if the opensource drivers see some improvement in the next few months.


Good luck!
 so i must wait, that's all. many thanks.

---

### Post by dungpt on 2009-05-08
i have a question.
what's default VGA driver in Ubuntu 9.04?

---

### Post by ssri on 2009-05-17
This bugfix might apply to you.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/351291](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/351291)

---

