---
title: "Inspiron 8200 at 1600x1200?"
date: 2010-03-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mouton on 2010-03-13
Hello!

I updated my Inspiron 8200 from 8.04 to 8.10 last week, and it seemed kinda happy - with the slight snag that the screen was all black - the top menu bar was there, and the bottom strap too, but in between just velvety, cool, black. However, I noticed that by hovering over different areas of the black, the mouse pointer would change...
Ubuntu had correctly identified the ATI Mobility 9000 chips, and selected the correct 1600x1200 screen.
I changed the settings to 800x600, and everything works fine - but of course that's an awful resolution to work with. I have tried to do my homework and google around, but it seemes that all other users had issues with the nVidia chipsets which were available as an alternative on this model.
Any suggestions for using Ubuntu with the glorious 1600x1200 screen are gratefully received!

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-03-13
Is there a reason you upgraded to Intrepid when it goes EOL next month?

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-03-13
My boss gave an old Inspiron 8200 work laptop to his grandson, and I replaced the hard drive when he trashed it (must have bounced it around too much).  It had NVIDIA GeForce4 440 Go instead of ATI video, and I think 1400x1050 instead of 1600x1200, but did seem high resolution and worked reasonably well with 756 MB RAM and the faster replacement 160 GB hard drive.

Besides XP Pro, I initially installed "Qimo for kids" (based on Ubuntu 8.10) and then ugraded that to 9.04, and that all worked fine.  There was an error during the 9.04 upgrade, but fixing broken packages after rebooting seemed to resolve that.

I don't remember it needing any special modules or drivers (this one had no wireless).  The nVidia worked great in its native resolution without any issues.  But cannot answer for the ATI Mobility RADEON 9000 video.

---

### Post by mouton on 2010-03-14
Thank you for your comments!

Temüjin:
Apologies - I got my figures completely wrong - not 8.10, but 9.10 - "Karmic Koala" it's what the laptop is on! I am sorry for the confusion!

efflandt:
The Inspiron 8200 was available in many different configuraitons, with many different screens. One of the reasons that I bought my 8200 was the availability of the 1600x1200 screen, which was not only unrivalled then, but never repeated since. And it is a beauty!

Here's hoping for a fix!

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-03-14
I would try and use the xorg-edgers PPA to make sure this isn't a driver issue that's already been resolved: [https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

I guess the issue could be with the kernel as well, since mode-setting is now done in kernel space. You could try the latest stable kernel (2.6.33) and see if that helps. If it doesn't work out, boot back into your old kernel and remove the .deb's you installed:
```
cd ~/
mkdir kerneldebs
cd kerneldebs/
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33/linux-headers-2.6.33-020633-generic_2.6.33-020633_i386.deb http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33/linux-headers-2.6.33-020633_2.6.33-020633_all.deb http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33/linux-image-2.6.33-020633-generic_2.6.33-020633_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i linux*
```

Pastebinning you /var/log/Xorg.0.log might help too: [http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/](http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by le_jawa on 2010-03-14
mouton,

First off, I see you're new to the forums, so welcome!  Also, if you're new to Ubuntu and Linux and general, please don't let this one snag determine your whole opinion of Linux; I think once you get past this snag, you'll enjoy the experience.

In any case, here are some things you can check to see if they may be causing your issue:


[LIST]
[*]Refresh rate is set too high
[*]Incorrect ATI driver (I'm not an ATI fan, and haven't stayed up on ATI/Linux issues, but I know there used to be more than one ATI driver)
[*]Misconfiguration/bad installation of desktop manager, such as Compiz/Fusion or GNOME itself.  To troubleshoot  a possible configuration problem with your account config, just create a new account and see if you have the same issue.
[/LIST]
I don't know what your level of experience with Linux is, so this may be really easy for you, or it may not.  Feel free to post any questions you may have.

Good luck!
Jason

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-03-14
> **le_jawa said:**
> 
[LIST]
[*]Incorrect ATI driver (I'm not an ATI fan, and haven't stayed up on ATI/Linux issues, but I know there used to be more than one ATI driver)
[/LIST]


There's only one option for this card. ATI dropped support for it in fglrx/Catlayst a while ago.

---

### Post by mouton on 2010-03-14
Thank you all!
It's not my first brush with Linux, and it certainly won't put me off, don't worry!

I have added the xserver-xorg-video-ati part, but that has not fixed the problems - was that the correct one to load?

Here's a bit more about the symptoms: on 1600x1200, the desktop background goes to black (from the orange-y default) and Firefox is "black" too, but as I said, the mouse-over portions are there.
Other things display fine - the systems tools for example, or Nibbles.  That is really odd (to me).

I have pasted the Xorg.0.log here: [http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/395292/](http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/395292/)

P.S. now off to put in the latest kernel... *eeek*

P.P.S. New kernel looked good during boot-up but once logged in the screen just goes to grey mush - so I won't use that :0)
(Also complained about missing mounts etc, so this is clearly where I leave safe newbie-ground, and right away learn my lesson :-)

---

