---
title: "10.04 Detects Very Little."
date: 2011-11-23
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
Exactly what it says on the tin.

HP Compaq Presario CQ57

Lucid Lynx 64-bit

Lucid Lynx starts up with an error, "Cannot query synaptics hardware" or something like that.  The touchpad is a little screwy, mostly because any wayward touch will ruin everything I've typed out all at once, leading to an immediate crtl+z.
Things it doesn't detect: (Not limited to)
Wireless adapater,
AC charger,
Sound card,
Video card, (Works, but no ATI drivers or updates.  Cannot enable desktop effects at the least.)
Or really much of anything else!  No hardware drivers, or anything like that.

Meanwhile, 11.10 notices all of those things!  But it's UI makes me want to curl into a ball and die.  I think I'd rather have 10.04 without internet on a top of the line PC circa 1996, than 11.10 on a high-end PC circa 2021.

Anyway, enough ranting,

lspci output:
[http://pastebin.com/SeXu5NJF](http://pastebin.com/SeXu5NJF)

Any help would be lovely.

UPDATE: Headphones can produce audio.  What?
UPDATE: Microphone does not work.

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-11-23
Ok Unity is not so bad.

You could test Linux Mint 12 (still in RC though) which is Ubuntu derived and has an acceptable solution for the desktop. 

But you should give a try to Unity, after a while you will find that you cannot live without it. I helped a friend with a 10.04 installed and I freaked. Looks like working with a Win 95.

---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
I really don't like Unity.  It allows very little customization besides changing your background from what I've found.  I don't want Linux Mint, and I don't want Unity.  I quite enjoy Lucid Lynx, which is supported until April 2013.  This is what I want, and I want it to work, but haven't a clue how to go about it.

So I must apologize if I come off rude, but I won't be trying out Unity any more than what I've already done.  If you might have any input into this problem that may lead to a solution, I would be very grateful.  Thank you for your post.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-11-23
The problem Sanus is that your computer came on the market in 2011 (according to amazon.com) and 10.04 was released in April 2010. So until someone invents a time machine, it is unlikely that 10.04 will ever fully support your hardware.

You don't need to use Unity with 11.10. You'll find some good alternatives listed in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1884970](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1884970)

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-11-23
There is a way to use something like Gnome 2 from 11.10. You just logout and in the login screen you choose the option to start using Gnome Classic. 

I don't know if this is solving your problem.

---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
Very well.  However, I've gone through Enlightenment, Kubuntu, Xcde, Lcde, Awesome, and some others I can't even list right now.  Gnome 2.x is my very favorite.  It's the archetype by which I base Ubuntu off of.  Is there perhaps a way I could get driver updates from the later versions?  Or even perhaps a list of things I should manually update?  Alsa is currently updating to what will (hopefully) work, then to Mesa and ATI drivers, but I have no idea what to do about wifi (Which is the main problem... Wicd is the latest version)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-11-23
Gnome 2 is dead, dude... you're betting on a dead horse. :)

---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
> **BC59 said:**
> There is a way to use something like Gnome 2 from 11.10. You just logout and in the login screen you choose the option to start using Gnome Classic. 

I don't know if this is solving your problem.

It's not.  I've already tried Classic Gnome and it's... well it's horrible.  You can do next to nothing in comparison.

I do not want to upgrade to any distributions that cannot make use of Gnome 2.x, even though it's no longer supported.  I won't really need UI adjustments past this, just a working computer with a UI that doesn't get in my way and can look as pretty as I want it to.

With panels.  Many freaking panels.

And menus.  God menus are nice.

And the ability to define to an obsessive extent the appearance/contents of each of these without needing to know lua.

---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
> **snowpine said:**
> The problem Sanus is that your computer came on the market in 2011 (according to amazon.com) and 10.04 was released in April 2010. So until someone invents a time machine, it is unlikely that 10.04 will ever fully support your hardware.

Also---The computer came out in 2011, but every piece (That I researched) was from February 2010 or earlier.  And they still have support till 2013.

---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
So, Alsa upgrade didn't finish earlier, but it's still in working.
Will look for exactly how to update video when that's done.

Any ideas/help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
Alsa upgrade is finished.  Haven't restarted to find out if it works yet.

Using this to install what seems to be the correct wifi drivers:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1608908](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1608908)

Using this to install Alsa:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1681577](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1681577)

Posting all of this for posterity.

---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
Still trying to get Synaptics, ATI, and Empathy all to work.  Wifi card's working, sound is working, flash is working... etc.

---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
Okay, so Empathy works.

MSN: Remove telepathy-butterfly, either
```
sudo apt-get remove telepathy-butterfly
```
or from Synaptic.

Yahoo:  Don't append @yahoo.com.  I struggled with that for a while o.O.
Server: cn.scs.msg.yahoo.com
Port: 5050

---

### Post by Sanus Compleo on 2011-11-23
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1885810](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1885810)
Put this in for the VGA and ATI problems.  Hopefully someone will respond shortly, until then --- more research!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11484555](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11484555)
This is where I'm asking about the Touchpad.  Will be going back into the IRC to see if I can find any solutions.

---

