---
title: "9.10 audio problems"
date: 2009-12-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Crixler on 2009-12-28
Alright, so upon doing a fresh install of 9.10, I found my audio wasn't working. I looked in my sound preferences, and both my built in audio and my Audiophile 2496 were detected, but it didn't show any of the 2496's analog outputs, only the digital ones. (Note: In my previous Ubuntu installation, 9.04, audio worked fine.) I don't use the digital ones, or my onboard sound, so I did some searching for a solution and saw a suggestion of updating alsa. I followed this guide[U]:
[/U][http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2009/12/17/upgrade-alsa-1-0-22-on-ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10/](http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2009/12/17/upgrade-alsa-1-0-22-on-ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10/)
After doing that, I looked in my sound preferences again, hoping for everything to work, and found the hardware tab completely empty. All the tabs (besides Sound Effects) were empty, except for a "Dummy Output" in the output tab.
I then tried this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1316634](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1316634)
But after doing step 1, everything was still empty.
I've continued to do more searching, to no avail, and finally decided to actually ask for help. Help? :(

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2009-12-28
From searching Goggle with "Audiophile 2496 linux" (but not in quotes, in Google,) it appears that you should use Synaptic to install alsa-tools-gui, and use envy24control to set up your sound card.

I also suggest you go into the BIOS settings and disable the on-board sound controller.

---

### Post by Crixler on 2009-12-28
I already had that installed, it seems, but when I tried loading it from my applications menu, it doesn't do anything.
Also, the onboard audio is now disabled.

---

