---
title: "16.04 LTS - Switching to nvidia drivers causes X to terminate after login"
date: 2016-08-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by apatters on 2016-08-03
Hi,

I am using Ubuntu 16.04 LTS on an Acer Aspire V3-771G w/ Nvidia GT 640M (plus Intel onboard graphics/Optimus technology).

Nouveau works without issues. I also dual boot Windows 10 and use the Nvidia card via Optimus without problems there. 

When I use the Additional Drivers application to switch to Nvidia 361.42 (proprietary, tested), after a restart:
- The login screen appears
- Attempting to login causes the screen to flash, an error message on a text console is displayed for a few milliseconds, and I am returned to the login screen.

How would we go about troubleshooting this issue?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-08-03
apatters; Humm ...

Graphic's driver failed to build ?

We will see, 1st - one thing at a time. We need to get a terminal activated.
At the login screen key combo ctl+alt+F1 to gain a console interface.
Here login with your credentials - user name and password . ( there will be no response to the screen when pass word is entered, enter the password blindly and hit the enter key) .

If you can activate this terminal and log into the system we can then look at logs and such and find out the situation.

It is all a process
[INDENT][INDENT]we find where it fails.[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by apatters on 2016-08-05
Hi, yes I can ctrl+alt+F1 and log in at the terminal.

Seeing as LightDM comes up I imagine some kind of graphics driver must be running but I don't know what.

What's next? Thanks!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-08-05
apatters; Hey hey ...

Looking up .. yes - we have a terminal .. so the system is stable ! .. There is hope ! That the issue lies within that X layer.

OK, a small thing just to get it out of the way. Do "YOU" have the authority to access the GUI layer ?
What returns:
```

ls -al .Xauthority
ls -al .ICEauthority

```

And we want to know what X is doing about graphics, that info is in a log file. Would behoove us greatly to see this log file. There is a easy way to transfer this file so we can read it:
We can use out pastebin site.
Install the tool :
```

sudo apt install pastebinit

```
Now execute:
```

cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | pastebinit

```
where the result is a URL back in terminal.
Copy and paste that link from the last command into your next post such that we now can read that system file.

Once we know a bit more 
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]we do a bit more
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by apatters on 2016-08-05
Hi Bashing-om,

When I switched back to nvidia-361 today I was surprised to find that now it works!

After a restart I was able to log into an X session without problems.

Running nvidia-settings revealed that actually despite installing the nvidia driver the system was still using my Intel onboard graphics, so I changed that setting and restarted again.

Subsequently nvidia-settings started displaying configuration options for the GT 640M GPU instead of Intel and when I run glxgears I can see the GPU utilization max out.

So I think we are there and the issue is resolved! I wonder why I was having trouble before. I will post again if I encounter further issues.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-08-05
apatters; Well ..

'buntu in some instances is in fact self healing, given the opportunity .
Here I will surmise was a corrupted /etc/X11/xorg.conf that got rebuilt in the switching about .

As all is now good:
Please mark this thread solved;
aides others seeking the solution,
helps keep the forum clean and
precludes others miss-directing efforts to aid.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

[INDENT][INDENT]good thing too happen
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

