---
title: "10.04 updates 6.8.2010 or 6.9.2010 lost printer"
date: 2010-06-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by neogrammarian on 2010-06-08
10.04 on my Dell Vostro 1500 went from running smoothly and printing on my hp 3745 deskjet printer fine, to not recognizing the printer is there at all today. Nor will it recognize another hp 932 deskjet I swapped out just in case.

It does recognize usb sticks, so it's not a usb-issue.

Hp37-series drivers still there.

I assume one of the updates today or possibly yesterday broke something. 

Anyone know which specific update might've done the deed? 

Anyone have any fix ideas?

10.04 worked out of the box for me on a clean install, flawlessly, so this is more than usually irritating.

Thanks for any ideas.

Update: trial and error finally found the broken file and reinstalled it. So yay! The computer now sees the printer.

The downside is that I'm now missing a library. The printer status bar says that the backend is missing- usr/lib/cups/backend/hp does not exist. Anyone know which library this is, because I -think- by this point I've installed every cups library that's canonical-approved. (Perhaps another broken file?)

---

### Post by Domitella on 2010-07-21
I could do with an answer to this too - last week it was printing as normal, this week it's saying there's no printer/scanner there.  USB ports all working normally for other things.

It's pretty frustrating!

Please address answers as if to a child - I've not had to do anything too technical with Ubuntu thus far.

---

