---
title: "12.04 draining battery on ThinkPad T420"
date: 2012-05-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lads on 2012-05-10
Dear all,

I started using a ThinkPad T420 (sandy bridge processor) last September with Ubuntu 11.04; at that time the battery could last in excess of 5 hours. With 11.10 battery lifetime went down to 2h20 with the introduction of kernel 3; this kernel fixed freezing issues with sandy bridge processors but killed the battery. On the weeks ahead of the 12.04 release, several places in the web claimed it would solve this battery issue. In reality it is draining the battery even faster, it lasts at best 2h.

Is Ubuntu 12.04 really supposed to solve the issues with sandy bridge processors? If yes, is there something that might have gone wrong with my upgrade?

Thank you.

---

### Post by junkilo on 2012-05-15
I wasn't able to realize great battery life without tweaks to manage things like screen, fan, and processes. I'll try to post up my results of 12.04 (precise pangolin) on my t420s later.

---

### Post by lads on 2012-05-16
> **junkilo said:**
> I wasn't able to realize great battery life without tweaks to manage things like screen, fan, and processes. I'll try to post up my results of 12.04 (precise pangolin) on my t420s later.

Please do! Thanks.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-05-16
Think about using TLP, a set of scripts to enhance Linux power management:

[https://github.com/linrunner/TLP/wiki/TLP-Linux-Advanced-Power-Management](https://github.com/linrunner/TLP/wiki/TLP-Linux-Advanced-Power-Management)

It is intended to be used on ThinkPads.

---

### Post by lads on 2012-05-16
Thank you 2F4U. After installing TLP the battery is now lasting well over 4 hours (depending on the level activity). This isn't exactly how much it lasted with Ubuntu 11.04, but already close enough.

Regards.

---

### Post by junkilo on 2012-05-24
fresh install of 12.04 had poor battery usage sadly (12-16 watts according to powertop) so people wanting great battery life will have do the usual process to get battery consumption down.

after enabling rc6 features in i915, setting up fan control with thinkfan I was down around 8-9 watts of usage when on about 75% brightness. 

It can be improved though. majority of the usage according powertop is the trackpad, fingerprint reader, bluetooth, soundcard, compiz, the backlight and the i915 interrupt usage.

some of these modules might be already enabled in 3.2:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash pcie_aspm=force i915.modeset=1 i915.i915_enable_rc6=1 i915.i915_enable_fbc=1 i915.lvds_downclock=1"

my temp sensors are at:
sensor /sys/devices/platform/coretemp.0/temp1_input
sensor /sys/devices/platform/coretemp.0/temp2_input
sensor /sys/devices/platform/coretemp.0/temp3_input

---

### Post by junkilo on 2012-05-24
ah, rc6 enabled by default accoding to:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1822629&page=24](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1822629&page=24)

---

### Post by jjiggens on 2012-05-24
> **2F4U said:**
> Think about using TLP, a set of scripts to enhance Linux power management:

[https://github.com/linrunner/TLP/wiki/TLP-Linux-Advanced-Power-Management](https://github.com/linrunner/TLP/wiki/TLP-Linux-Advanced-Power-Management)

It is intended to be used on ThinkPads.
THanks for the post, I installed this on my Elietebook and it has bumped me from about 3.5h of battery to 5.5h estimate.

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2012-05-24
[Jupiter Applet]("http://www.jupiterapplet.org/") might help a little

[http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/jupiter-applet-officially-switches-to.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2012/03/jupiter-applet-officially-switches-to.html)

---

### Post by garzie2000 on 2012-05-24
> **jjiggens said:**
> THanks for the post, I installed this on my Elietebook and it has bumped me from about 3.5h of battery to 5.5h estimate.

Please I'm a bit of a newbie I want to use this script instead of laptop-mode-tools which I currently use can please help me out with a step by step guide?

---

### Post by lads on 2012-05-25
Ok, after week with long battery life it is now back to 2 hours. Conscientiously I haven't made any changes to the set up, although every day day dozens of new packages are being upgraded.

I checked the TLP config file and it remains enabled. Also confirmed that /etc/rc.local is void. Any clued on why TLP may have stopped functioning?

Thank you.

---

### Post by lads on 2012-06-04
I was away for a week. When I come back the upgrade installed 93 new packages and now the battery can last almost 6 hours. This is great, back to the levels of 11.04.

---

### Post by ultimatebuster on 2012-07-08
I don't know if it is my battery weakening or the days are hot.. but I'm barely getting 2 hours now (used to be about 4, I keep my max charge at 80%)

Currently using about 16.7 W of power. I only have chrome and a couple of terminal out. The air temperature is around 27C and CPU is at 62C, fans are at 3300RPM.

I know the days are hot, but I used to be able to run my system at around 45C with 0RPM (really something like 900, but reporting is weird) at around ~10W

Ideas?

---

### Post by lads on 2012-07-09
> **ultimatebuster said:**
> I only have chrome and a couple of terminal out.

Hi ultimatebuster, here's a bit of my experience. 

I spent the last week at a conference where I was able to use this laptop throughout the whole day without recharging. With both the graphical and wireless cards switch off the battery should last 8 hours doing simple things like reading or taking notes. Switching on the wireless card for some internet navigation reduces this time to about 6 hours, if you don't access pages with much flash. 

But whenever I started Chrome all of this changed, the fan with go close to max and after a few minutes I'd start feeling the warmth on my skin. Basically Chrome is a CPU hog and can't possibly be used if you want the battery to last. Throughout the conference I only used Firefox, thus keeping the impact on battery time limited.

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by ultimatebuster on 2012-07-09
> **lads said:**
> Hi ultimatebuster, here's a bit of my experience. 

I spent the last week at a conference where I was able to use this laptop throughout the whole day without recharging. With both the graphical and wireless cards switch off the battery should last 8 hours doing simple things like reading or taking notes. Switching on the wireless card for some internet navigation reduces this time to about 6 hours, if you don't access pages with much flash. 

But whenever I started Chrome all of this changed, the fan with go close to max and after a few minutes I'd start feeling the warmth on my skin. Basically Chrome is a CPU hog and can't possibly be used if you want the battery to last. Throughout the conference I only used Firefox, thus keeping the impact on battery time limited.

Hope it helps.

I've heard about this. I'm going to try to switch to fx for the day and see what happens then report back. 

I have graphics switched off as well though I do have bumblebee setup.

Edit: Here's powertop just with firefox open:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/NSYwc.png[/IMG] (at 72% battery)

Still looks pretty bad. I've checked the laptop's internals for dust and its fairly clean. The laptop is also a year old, so the battery has perhaps degraded a bit.

acpi -v output:

```

Battery 0: Discharging, 65%, 01:46:23 remaining
Battery 0: design capacity 5616 mAh, last full capacity 3297 mAh = 58%
Adapter 0: off-line
Thermal 0: ok, 56.0 degrees C
Thermal 0: trip point 0 switches to mode critical at temperature 98.0 degrees C
Cooling 0: LCD 3 of 15
Cooling 1: Processor 0 of 10
Cooling 2: Processor 0 of 10
Cooling 3: Processor 0 of 10
Cooling 4: Processor 0 of 10

```

Edit 2:
More tests later: 30 minutes drained about 30% of my battery. Just checking periodically I can see my power usage at around 15W or so. This really should be at like 11 or 12W even with just Firefox on.

However, I would say that the days are hotter, hence the fans are working harder.. (If the fans are at 1900 RPM the target power usage is reached). However, it's only 20C today compared to yesterday's 27C. So I'm not sure if this is an issue with the OS or just the room temperature at fault.

---

### Post by lads on 2012-07-10
Hi again ultimatebuster. The discharge times you are reporting are about the same I had with kernel 3.0. Are you using Ubuntu 12.04? And if yes, have you installed TLP?

Note that after installing TLP the battery usage didn't went immediately to its full potential. As I reported before, it was only after a package upgrade that it started working properly.

---

### Post by ultimatebuster on 2012-07-10
> **lads said:**
> Hi again ultimatebuster. The discharge times you are reporting are about the same I had with kernel 3.0. Are you using Ubuntu 12.04? And if yes, have you installed TLP?

Note that after installing TLP the battery usage didn't went immediately to its full potential. As I reported before, it was only after a package upgrade that it started working properly.

Yes for 12.04, Yes for TLP. Yes everything is fully up to date.

My battery is degrading, I know, as made evident from acpi. 

I'm currently under windows now (to test this power, I installed a bran new windows installation with all the proper drivers, including nvidia's optimus) and I'm drawing about 10 - 11W of power on average. The fans are much quieter, as well (though battery life is not good as my battery is dying, but still better than under Ubuntu)

If you want me to run any other tests to help diagnose the issue, I'll be happy to.

---

### Post by lads on 2012-07-11
Hi again ultimatebuster, I'm sorry but I can't help much more, I'm more of a user than a real Ubuntu geek.

Prior to kernel 3.2 I used the Xubuntu graphical interface whenever I needed the battery. It increased usage time by some 25%.

Best of luck.

---

### Post by ultimatebuster on 2012-07-11
> **lads said:**
> Hi again ultimatebuster, I'm sorry but I can't help much more, I'm more of a user than a real Ubuntu geek.

Prior to kernel 3.2 I used the Xubuntu graphical interface whenever I needed the battery. It increased usage time by some 25%.

Best of luck.

I'm on Xubuntu as well. I'll try to see for myself is there's any tests I should run and will report back if I find anything.

---

### Post by lkm32 on 2012-08-26
Hi ultimatebuster,

In my experience (ancient T400 user here ... upgrade next year), the main culprit is always the damn fan.  It is pretty strong and for good reason ... it is not designed to stay always on.  Install **thinkfan** and run it after a reboot with "sudo thinkfan".  That will save a lot of power that was previously going to keep your laptop unnecessarily cool.

For me, I had to install lm-sensors and run "sudo sensors detect" for thinkfan to be accurate.  However, after that I stuck with the defaults and it literally doubled my battery.

Also, thanks to this thread I will install TLP ... it sounds awesome. Currently with my aging 9-cell I get around 5 hours.  I'm planning to switch from chrome and use TLP to hopefully get a few more hours.

Anyhow, good luck with that :D

---

### Post by linrunner on 2012-08-28
@lkm32: I **highly** doubt that one can **double** battery life by shifting the fan profile to higher temperatures. Just for the fun of it I compared power consumption on my X220. The difference between level 0 (stopped) and 7 (max) is just 0.7 W. As in most situations the fan speed does not go beyond level 3, the saving potential is even less (~0.3 W).

EDITH: in my experience the T400 fan is on level 1 most of the time.

---

