---
title: "12.04.2 Is there a way to permanently disable Nvidia graphics card on optimus laptop"
date: 2013-03-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by hubmarc on 2013-03-03
I am running Ubuntu 12.04.2 64 Bit on a Lenovo ThinkPad edge e530. And yes I know, buying that thing wasn't the smartest choice I ever made.
Unfortunately this model comes with a GeForce GT 630M in addition to the integrated Intel graphics on the core i7 CPU and the whole thing is set up as an optimus system - which obviously doesn't work.

I have tried a lot of suggestions from multiple forums to get the Nvidia card running but I always end up with a completely unusable OS and had to reinstall Ubuntu many times already.
The additional drivers don't show up in system settings and manually installing either proprietary nvidia drivers or even bumblebee always renders the installation unusable, because it won't even boot up the GUI - not even in safe mode (Grub).
I also tried to Install the nvidia drivers via Ubuntu's software center, which didn't help either.
After a fresh install, the machine works just fine, except that Ubuntu only runs in 2D mode without any OpenGL support as far as I can see.

I know that this isn't a hardware failure because Windows 7, which I run as a dual-boot besides Ubuntu, doesn't have any trouble working with optimus and the nvidia card .

Of course I could disable the nvidia card in BIOS, but then I won't be able to use it in Windows either and switching it on and off depending on which OS I want to use seems rather annoying, to be honest.
Unfortunately I still need Windows because I do a lot of audio- and video editing that can't be done yet using open-source solutions on Linux.  

Now I wonder if the core i7's integrated graphics should'nt be able to at least provide some limited degree of 3D acceleration, at least enough to run Unity so I wouldn't be stuck with the very uncutomizable 2D Desktop environment?
So my question is: Is there any way to tell Ubuntu to just simply forget about the nvidia card and use the integrated Intel HD graphics instead?

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2013-03-03
Not sure if a blacklist would work
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

---

### Post by hubmarc on 2013-03-03
Problem solved!

I found a way to disable the Nvidia card.

I made another fresh Install of Precise Pangolin but disabled the dedicated card in BIOS before I installed Ubuntu.
Once Ubuntu had installed the graphics driver for the Intel integrated graphics, I reenabled the nvidia card in BIOS. Now everything runs smooth in Ubuntu without nvidia drivers and I can still use the dedicated GPU in Windows.

Propably not the most elegant solution but it seems to be working. :p

---

