---
title: "Drivers for Gateway mx3231 notebook"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bamirza on 2008-04-30
Recently tried installing HH onto a Gateway MX3231 and ran into a lot of missing drivers.  Video, sound and Wireless were all unrecognized, leaving me high and dry.  Had a LITTLE better luck with GG, at least that was able to recognize the wireless.  

Can anyone help this newbie find some drivers?

Thanks!

---

### Post by swordlashe0 on 2008-05-19
Argh, same issues. I dont quite remember all I did to get mine working, but May I add NONE of my wifi gear works out of the box in HH. I do know how to fix the sound.

(note this works in ubuntu 7.10 gusty gibson and 8.04 hardy heron.

1. Double click the speaker icon at the top right of your screen
2. In the new window, click edit and goto prefrences.
3. scroll down and put a check in the box next to external amplifier.
4 close the prefrences window
5 double click the speaker icon again. now there should be a switches tab.
6 click on the siwtches tab and uncheck external amplifer.
7 You gots sound now.

quite no idea how it works but it does :lolflag: 

AH! also I found the wifi drivers. To install them:
1. click on applications at the top left of your window.
2. in the dropdown menu, click add/remove...
3. wait for all the stuff to load, then in the top searchbar, type in ndis and wait.
4. You should see a program called ndiswrapper. check the box next to it and install it.
5. after ndiswrapper is installed, close add/remove applications and download
[http://rapidshare.com/files/116198267/wifidrivers-mx3231.tar.gz](http://rapidshare.com/files/116198267/wifidrivers-mx3231.tar.gz)
extract the two files to your desktop.
6. click on the system tab in the top left and go to Administration> Windows Wireless Drivers
7. in the new window,click Install new drivers
8. in the little popup window, click on the bar and go to /home/<your username>/Desktop/net8185.inf
9. click install on the little popup window.
10. it should detect your hardware right away and you can use network manager to connect to a network.
It will automaticly connect to any unsecured APs next to you

Hope this helps, trying to dig through my notes for the video driver installation.
FINAL EDIT-----
found the video drivers in my notes.

K, this one is a bit hard so bare with me.

1. go to Applications at the top left of your screen, then accessories> terminal
2. type in > sudo -s then type in your password when asked.
3. type in >  nano /etc/x11/xorg.conf [QUOTE]
4. a command line text editor appears. delete all text and replace it with the following:
[QUOTE]# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-65
	VertRefresh	30-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

exit nano using the keycommands on screen, then reboot. your resolution is fixed!
That should make it all good, sorry if I screwd up somewhere as Im not very good at being precise. :(

---

### Post by fondoo on 2008-06-17
did you guys get the broadcom wireless working???

---

### Post by bamirza on 2009-05-07
It's case sensitive.. the location of the file.  Be sure to put a capital X not lowercase for X11

---

### Post by TheGeebs on 2009-09-11
None of the above worked for me.  I am happy to report I have working Realtek WLAN drivers and fixed display.

I downloaded the Realtek RTL8185 drivers from [Realtek]("http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PFid=1&Level=6&Conn=5&ProdID=35&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true") for Linux.

After downloading and extracting the drivers I used terminal in the directory:

```
sudo make
sudo make install
reboot
```After Rebooting:
```
sudo ./wlan0up
```As for fixing the corrupted video and having the computer not run at 1600x1200:```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` and replaced the entire file with:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth 16
    SubSection    "Display"
    Modes    "1280x768"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by TheGeebs on 2009-09-11
I Just got sound working.  In Jaunty click on the Speaker Icon

```
-Click [Volume Control]
-Select VIA 8237 (Alsa Mixer)
-Click [Preferences]
-Scroll Down and check External Amplifier
-Close Window
-Click Switches Tab
-Uncheck External Amplifier
-Click on Playback Tab
-Unmute PC Speaker and Turn Volume all the way up
```- click on "System/Preferences/Sound"
Press Test to confirm

---

### Post by Simstud on 2010-08-29
In Lucid (10.04): post #5 fixed the video, the wireless worked without a problem;

To fix the sound
-Click the speaker icon, select sound preferences
-go to the output tab
-select any of the options that say "no amplifier"

---

