---
title: "14.04: Epson Stylus 1390 Network printer sometimes print only half page"
date: 2015-01-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by flameproof on 2015-01-14
14.04: Network printer sometimes print only half page

I have an Epson Stylus 1390 printer on my Win Xp machine. The Ubuntu 14.04 prints through the Xp. Often it just prints half page only, then the page will get stuck in the printer. After restarting 14.04 it works fine again. Restarting Xp or the printer will not help.

Is there something in the 14.04 setup I can improve? 

I should add that there is no Linux native Epson Stylus 1390 driver and I used the native 1400, since that printer is almost identical.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-01-14
Hello!

Does the paper ever get stuck printing documents from the XP computer?

---

### Post by flameproof on 2015-01-15
> **QIII said:**
> Hello!

Does the paper ever get stuck printing documents from the XP computer?

Nope, just from the 14.04 Ubuntu. And just sometimes after an hour or so. I don't think it's Xp related.

I may add:
I have two 14.04-64 in the network and this happens just with one of them.
Both have exactly the same setup under Hardware > Printers > Epson

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2015-01-15
Are both your 14.04/64-bit machines the same? (Make, model, CPU, RAM, etc....)

This WOULD give us a starting point.

Please let us know your specs, and we'll see where to go from there.


Regards,

Mike. ;)

---

### Post by flameproof on 2015-01-22
> **Mike_Walsh said:**
> Are both your 14.04/64-bit machines the same? (Make, model, CPU, RAM, etc....)

This WOULD give us a starting point.

Sorry for the late reply. No, they are very different. Both are AMD though, but different type CPU. One MB is ATX, one is ITX and runs purely on SSD, that the one that has the problem.

---

