---
title: "HP 2133 9.10 Trackpad Issue"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tjccjt on 2009-10-30
I upgraded my HP 2133 Mininote from 9.04 to 9.10 last night. Unfortunately the trackpad no longer works. A USB mouse does work though.

Any ideas how I might investigate the problem?

Thanks

Tony

Found this in the X log:

(II) config/hal: Adding input device SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad
(II) LoadModule: "synaptics"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input//synaptics_drv.so
(II) Module synaptics: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 1.6.4, module version = 1.1.2
    Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
    ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 4.0
(II) Synaptics touchpad driver version 1.1.2
SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad The /dev/input/event* device nodes seem to be missing
(**) Option "Device" "/dev/event10"
Query no Synaptics: 000000
(--) SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad: no supported touchpad found
(EE) SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad Unable to query/initialize Synaptics hardware.
(EE) PreInit failed for input device "SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad"
(II) UnloadModule: "synaptics"

---

### Post by christhemonkey on 2009-10-30
I had this exact problem, in the end I found that for whatever reason I was still running the 9.04 kernel.
So when I then selected 2.6.31-14-generic from the grub menu, this "cured" the problem.

Check the output of the command:
```
uname -r 
```

---

### Post by tjccjt on 2009-10-31
Thanks, that was the problem I was having too. It seems to be a problem with the updater not adding entries to menu.lst for the new kernel.

---

### Post by jkorten on 2010-07-09
This worked for me:

gconftool -s -t bool /desktop/gnome/peripherals/touchpad/touchpad_enabled true

Don't know why 10.04 disabled it. I also had it working before logon then disabled after logon. Sometimes it would work though. Flaky.

This gconftool command seems to have lasted through a reboot so I am hopeful.

Jerry

---

