---
title: "Geforce 7300 GO Works! Well...partially"
date: 2009-03-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by XPM on 2009-03-29
Installed the new 180.x driver through synaptic on my Toshiba Satellite a100.
I've never managed to get it to work before using the recommended/beta drivers, but this time it actually works!

All the other resolutions works except for the default one within Nvidia Settings (highest) 1280x800.

If I put that one the screen gets "pushed" to the right...rendering the right edge totally on the left side.

Is there anyway to fix this?

If I modify the Nvidia Settings to use the "Manual mode" on the same resolution and click "Apply" it corrects everything!

But if I reset X it goes back to the same errors...
If I then open the Nvidia settings and reverse the order...it works again!

It doesn't matter what I click as long as I "Apply" the settings (then it works)

Something tells me this should be an easy fix...

Help please?

---

### Post by snkiz on 2009-03-29
Open Nvidia settings as root make your changes and apply then click the save xconfig button. your good to go.

---

### Post by XPM on 2009-03-29
Tried that...

No go :(

Edit:

To set things straight...GDM has no problem with this...it's just after I log in
Changing the resolution back and forth in Gnome works also
From what I can gather it's not the graphic cards that the problem but the screen?

---

### Post by XPM on 2009-03-29
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Seiko"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce Go 7300"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x800 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by XPM on 2009-03-29
I'm quite surprised that nobody has an answer for this. I've seen harder questions
Don't get me wrong but I figured that somebody knew a command that I could run as a script during startup when logging into gnome to do a temp fix
I guess I'll just have to remove the driver and wait for another turn until the 185 driver.

---

