---
title: "9.04 on eeepc 900 which version?"
date: 2009-07-31
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by jamie_fixit on 2009-07-31
Hiya,
 
Could use a little advice. I've finally managed to install 9.04 on my little ASUS 900 eeepc with the 16gb ssd drive. It's great from what I can tell, but... I'm uncertain about whether I should have installed the UNR version instead. Or... if there are any patches or fixes I need to do to get the best set up on a eeePC.
 
I've tried to make a disk for the the UNR versoin but have been unable to get a readable version on to a disk. Normal 9.04 works great but the UNR img file creates a dsik that appears to have nothing on it and refuses to boot when I stick it on a DVD. I've tried making it on my PC using both nero and infrarecorder. If there is no specific reason for sticking UNR on it I'll not bother, but it's worth asking as I'm struggling to find anything that describes or compares the versions on the site, it's all a bit vague.
 
Cheers, Jamie.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-07-31
Netbook Remix is a different graphical user interface that's optimized for small screens. Other than that (and a few applications that are left out, meaning slightly smaller installed size), it's the same core system as "regular" Ubuntu.

Here are the instructions for installing UNR: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromImgFiles](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromImgFiles)

My advice is, stick with your current install if you're satisfied it works for your needs.

---

### Post by jamie_fixit on 2009-07-31
Thank you that's really helpful. I really like it! Just got to figure a few things out but the forums look really helpful for that.
 
Jamie.

---

### Post by hetx on 2009-07-31
Note that the NBR is an .img file and not .iso, you can't use unetbootin. I'm saying this because I made that mistake!  ](*,)

---

### Post by Katalog on 2009-07-31
> **hetx said:**
> Note that the NBR is an .img file and not .iso, you can't use unetbootin. I'm saying this because I made that mistake!  ](*,)

Excellent point. Anyway, I have both an Eee PC 901 and 1000HA and I have to recommend Netbook Remix, hands down. They both have UNR 9.04 and eee-control installed on them and both work flawlessly (with the exception of the fiddling I had to do with the wireless drivers on the 1000HA). The advantages you get saving screen real estate are totally worth it.

---

