---
title: "Dell m4400 w/Docking Station - Monitor Problem"
date: 2009-07-15
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by digitalexpl0it on 2009-07-15
Hello,

I am trying to get this Dell M4400 Laptop working with Ubuntu 9.04. Everything is working without being on the dell docking station. When I attach the laptop to the docking station all the ports work but the external monitor does not work. Everything runs fine on VESA drivers but when I installed the NVIDIA drivers I lost the external monitor when the laptop is docked. Is there a way to fix this?

thank you,
D

---

### Post by digitalexpl0it on 2009-07-16
I took the laptop off the dock, then hooked the external monitor to the laptop and had the NVIDIA drivers setup the external which worked, I then docked the laptop and now I can sue the monitor.

Also if I save the xorg.conf file to /etc/X11 will it automatically laod the external and if the laptop isn't docked will it switch to the laptop screen automatically?


output of the xorg.conf
=======================
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 2035 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "1"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LGD"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.3
    VertRefresh     40.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic Q22wb"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Quadro FX 770M"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Quadro FX 770M"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by encompass on 2009-11-11
Hi,
How are you getting the dual monitor to work? What software are you using?
I have the same model of dell and it works very well for me when I use the Nvidia settings stuff.

---

