---
title: "9.04 Live CD will not load load on Gateway LT3104"
date: 2009-08-08
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by petersra on 2009-08-08
Just got my snappy new Gateway netbook. Tried a 9.04 live CDROM (via usb).  Immediate error was "bug 5254 Time not conected to IO-APCI.  Then errors Ati softreset failed (device not ready).  Finally dropped into command mode.  Tried a AMD 64 version same thing.  

THis is a Gateway LT3103 with AMD Athlon 64, chipset amd 5690M, and ATI Radeon X1270 graphics chip. Tried turning off APCI=off


Anyone got this little beauty to work with Ubuntu 9.04?

Rob

---

### Post by petersra on 2009-08-09
Tried to boot from a flash disk but no difference.  Errors are
MP-BIOS Bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APCI
ModprobL Fatal: could not load /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/modules.dep: no such file or directory
Powernow-ka* BIOS error - no PSB or ACPI_PsSS objects

---

### Post by kluffinator on 2009-08-17
Hi,

I've got the exact same netbook and haven't attempted to install Ubuntu 9.04 to it.

Frankly, since I can't stand Vista, I jumped straight to Ubuntu 9.10 Alpha 2. Alpha 4 is now out and the two work exceptionally well on this piece of equipment. 
[http://www.ubuntu.com/testing](http://www.ubuntu.com/testing)

I recommend that you do not update it since the Alpha's are unstable but, for me, everything seemed to work out of the box.

Compiz works as does the wireless, webcam, and microphone. 

So, the good news is that by October, Ubuntu shall fully support it.

Good luck!

---

### Post by ufoDziner on 2009-08-17
Worked for me with the 64 bit desktop version.  I used unetbootin to install on the thumbdrive.

---

### Post by uninventiveheart on 2009-09-06
I got regular-variety Ubuntu 9.04 working on a USB Key with [http://usbuntu-live-creator.en.softonic.com/](http://usbuntu-live-creator.en.softonic.com/) (French program, a few quirks, but did the job.) It says certain ISO's are not compatible, like the AMD-64bit ones, but you can write them to a Flash drive/USB Key anyway.
 
I love Ubuntu, but I'll keep it off my HDD until I can get an external DVD-Burner and make the proper recovery disks for Vista Basic in case I bork it all up.  Without which, if I wreak havok, I can't put it back the way it was.  But give the USB Key thing a try, most 2 GB ones are less than $15 these days, and give ample room for a persistant disk image to save programs and preferences.

---

