---
title: "Advent 4213 9.04 setup issues. Newbie..."
date: 2009-05-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pupton on 2009-05-05
Hi there

Reasonable new to the Ubuntu thing. Ive got a new Advent 4213 laptop and have installed 9.04 in a dual boot setup with XP.

Most things are working perfectly with the exception of the following:-

Wireless. Seems a bit hit and miss. It starts to auto connect to my wifi but fails. If I force a disconnect and then reconnect it generally completes its connection and off I go.

Hibernation. Initially the swap size was too small for my 2gb of ram so I booted off my live USB drive and resized the swap partition to a bit over 2gb. I then edited fstab with the new uuid and the OS now sees that I have a swap file available. I can hibernate fine but when I next power the laptop on it just starts booting up as if there's no hibernation file so I've technically lost all of open apps.

the laptop does not perform as well as I was hoping. I reckon the machine runs faster under XP :-(

Any thoughts on the above would be really appreciated.

---

### Post by pupton on 2009-05-05
Any takers? Would be good to be able to crack the wierd wireless issues and hibernation...

---

### Post by unrealfighter on 2009-05-05
Go into terminal and write lspci and post your results. 
As a network manager, I prefer wicd than the one gnome uses. It might solve the problem. Just follow the instructions here to install it:
[http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php)

---

### Post by pupton on 2009-05-06
Thanks for the pointer. Info pasted...

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 02)
01:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8187SE Wireless LAN Controller (rev 22)

---

### Post by pupton on 2009-05-06
Installed wicd and that sorted my wireless connection issues straight away BUT I can no  longer use the integrated mobile broadband connection.

If Wicd cannot work with the integrated datacard I may need to revert to the other connection manager. How do I revert?

---

### Post by pupton on 2009-05-06
ok, ignore previous post... WICD works nicely with my wireless network but as i said it doesnt see my integrated datacard so i dont think it's for me :-(

Ive reverted to network manager and will just have to wait for it to time out and then ok the password prompt for it to finally connect to my wireless lan.

Any thoughts from anyone on hiberbation? It appears to hibernate fine and powers off. Problem is that when I next boot it doesnt appear to restore the previous state. Example of this is that I could hibernate with Firefox running. I would expect firefox to continue to run when you resume....

Thanks for your time and help so far on this...

---

