---
title: "Ubuntu 8.04 , nvidia 8600, and projector HOW ?"
date: 2008-08-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by JOKe on 2008-08-06
Hello,
i'v readed a lot of posts  how to start my ubuntu with projector.
I have ubuntu 8.04 up2date, nvidia 8600 512mb with nvidia drivers installed with envy and i use gnome, i have compiz-beryl and emerald enabled.
MY PROBLEM IS : "WHEN I START UBUNTU WITH PROJECTOR PLUGGED IN THE GDM ON MY LAPTOP SCREEN FAIL TO START. I AWAYS GET A BLINK AND BLACK SCREEN, ON PROJECTOR EVERYTHING IS FINE.

My xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option "Twinview" "TRUE"
	Option "TwinViewOrientation" "Clone"
	Option "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "0"
	Option "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "0"
	Option "MetaModes" "1280x800 , 1024x768"
	Option "ConnectedMonitor" "CRT , CRT" 
        Option "NoLogo" "True" 
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection


what is the problem ? 
i try Option "MetaModes" "1280x800 , 1024x768" to be 1024x768 on both but the result is the same. I remove the nvidia graphic logo becouse in the past i have problem when it was displayed with tvout and geforce 2 but this not change anythink.
any idea ? what is the problem ?

p.s. under windows vista everythink is fine my vista runs on 1280x800 and the projector runs on 1024x768 and the screen si automaticly scaled and resized.

---

### Post by Tavathlon on 2008-08-17
I would like to get projector working as well, but I have not been digging very deeply in it yet. Same version of ubuntu and same graphics card, though.

One thing that I reacted on was that you are trying with twinview and clone orientation rather than having two separate screens. I don't know which one is the best, but I was thinking that perhaps if you look around in this thread ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=98456](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=98456)) about TV-out, you might find something - of course you'll have to remove the TV-specific parts, and I'm not sure what to replace it with, but at least there is an explanation on how to add two separate screens into xorg.conf. I'm going to try it myself, but not until I actually have a projector to try it on, which I don't have at the moment.

---

