---
title: "12.04 LTS &amp; Dell 1545 - this time it's the card reader!"
date: 2013-07-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by silentnomore on 2013-07-01
Hey, all - Ubuntu noob here.  I'm desperately trying to convert over to Ubuntu from Windows 7 with a bloody Dell Inspiron 1545 and encountering no end of problems.  Took me about 3 months of farting around to finally get the wi-fi working, and now that's sorted I've discovered a need for my built-in card reader, but it doesn't seem to be working.

Does anyone know if / how to resolve this, please, and if so I could really use some step-by-step instructions!

Pleasethankyoukindlyverymuchsir/madamgooddaytoyou.

-SNM

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-07-01
Can you tell us if the card reader works (or worked) in Windows, if you have or had Windows on the machine in the past and is it all cards or just some types that are not read?

On a new machine I had custom built the card reader worked for all card types except sdhc, which are the only cards I possess, so had to be replaced under warranty.

---

### Post by silentnomore on 2013-07-02
Thanks for getting back to me so quickly!  Yeah, the card reader worked perfectly well in Windows, and the only card that I've ever tried using in it is a plain SD card.  Is there a particular piece of software or driver that I need to install?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-07-02
> **silentnomore said:**
> Thanks for getting back to me so quickly!  Yeah, the card reader worked perfectly well in Windows, and the only card that I've ever tried using in it is a plain SD card.  Is there a particular piece of software or driver that I need to install?

No, not normally.

Can you show the output of ```
lsusb
``` and ```
lspci
```to see if that gives any useful info.

---

