---
title: "10.10 MSI GT725-212US Audio only coming from sub woofers"
date: 2010-11-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by unuu on 2010-11-07
I'm not sure what to do I googled this but have not had any luck, on finding a fix. 

What is weird is when the ubuntu starts up in the login screen and does the little bongo sound, they sound is coming from all speakers. 

Once in ubuntu the sound only comes out of the sub woofers. I tried playing with all the setting that I can mess with but nothing is working to get the sound out of the speakers. 

Please help or point me to the right direction.

Thank you!

---

### Post by unuu on 2010-12-31
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118837]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118837")

The above post takes you to the start of this fix, although it does not fix everything completely.

Start your terminal;
```

sudo su
cd /etc/modprobe.d
gedit alsa-base.conf

```

Then enter the following line at the bottom of the file;
```
options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-dig probe_mask=1
```

Save the flie CTRL+S quit CTRL+Q, Now in the terminal type the following;

```
sudo alsa force-reload
```

Now go to your "Sound Preferences" the following work; Analog Stereo Output, Analog Stereo Output + Digital...bla bla, and Analog Stereo Duplex (choose this profile), this will get your input read so you'll be able to use your mic and input line.

The following issues now exist, at least for me. 
[LIST=1]
[*]When you plug the headphones you get audio from speakers and headphones (if you figure this out please post)
[/LIST]

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-01-01
Try this one instead:
```
options snd-hda-intel model=3stack-6ch-dig
```
Let me know how it goes.

---

### Post by ruidc on 2011-02-20
both work for me (EU model of GT725), but at the loss of headphone jack sense working.

UPDATE: I got the audio to cut out the main speakers when plugging in headphones by following this little extra config: [http://forum-en.msi.com/index.php?topic=137959.0](http://forum-en.msi.com/index.php?topic=137959.0)

unfortunately, the subwoofer stays on.

---

