---
title: "12.10 Need help resurrecting OS (resurrected)"
date: 2013-05-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Locus Kiesselbachi on 2013-05-28
Mouse and keyboard dont work. Only thing I can think of is formating hard drive.

I made "repair install" for OS with installation cd, but now mouse and keyboard dont work.  Mouse is just in middle of screen. GRUB menu reacts to keyboard.

**[This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2146225")** is, why I made "repair install". Now OS is useless.

Can anyone help?

*
Ubuntu 12.10 LXDE
"repair install" - installation CD offers replacing OS, but keeping files and programs saved before.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-05-28
A little history is needed ...

Is this a new problem with an existing mouse and keyboard that used to work?

If so, what has changed since when they worked?

Is this an Ubuntu OS? (Asking because "Repair Install" is often associated with the Windows OS)

Are these wired devices? Or, are they wireless devices (with a plug that goes into a USB port)?

If wireless, have you checked the battery (in the mouse, and sometimes, in the keyboard as well)?

If the battery (ies) are good,  try plugging the USB receiver into a different USB port.  IF it's plugged into a hub, move it to the body of the PC.

---

### Post by Locus Kiesselbachi on 2013-05-29
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> A little history is needed ...

> Is this a new problem with an existing mouse and keyboard that used to work?
yes

> If so, what has changed since when they worked?
When you boot from Ubuntu installation CD, then choose "Install Lubuntu", it gives menu that says something like: you have already some OS on this computer (win7 on HD1 & Lubuntu12.10 on HD2), would you like to delete everything on HD1 or HD2 or **REinstall** Lubuntu (files and programs will be kept) or "something else" It is similar menu as [**here**]("http://i56.tinypic.com/j17ib5.jpg"). So I chose the REinstall variant.
> Is this an Ubuntu OS? (Asking because "Repair Install" is often associated with the Windows OS)
yes, Ubuntu OS (LXDE Ubuntu 12.10), I named it "repair install" because I didnt remember how it was called.
> Are these wired devices? Or, are they wireless devices (with a plug that goes into a USB port)?
Yes, wired, no battery.
> If the battery (ies) are good,  try plugging the USB receiver into a different USB port.  IF it's plugged into a hub, move it to the body of the PC.
Motherboard (Z77X-UD3H )gives only specific USB port for mouse and keyboard, but yes I tried other ports too. Mouse laserbeam is lit.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-05-29
Sorry, don't use Lubuntu, so I can't help you in that.

All I can suggest, since these are wired, is to see if you can boot into your BIOS setup and confirm that Legacy USB is turned on.

---

### Post by Locus Kiesselbachi on 2013-05-30
Hei!

a little update about the problem:
when GRUB menu opens, I choose _"Advanced options for Ubuntu"_ and then
"Ubuntu, with Linux 3.5.0-**31**-generic (recovery mode)" and then
"normal boot" - mouse and keyboard still dont work.

BUT

when I choose "Ubuntu, with Linux 3.5.0-**17**-generic (recovery mode)" and then "normal boot" - SUCCESS, mouse and keyboard works.

Now how to make it permanent?
What is wrong with my OS?
What do I do wrong?
Help?

---

### Post by Locus Kiesselbachi on 2013-05-30
Allrighty.
I ran OS via GRUB menu [COLOR=#000000]"Ubuntu, with Linux 3.5.0-[/COLOR]**17**-generic (recovery mode)".
Made update in "Software Updater" and restart. Everything works as it needs to be - OS saved from disk format.

Lesson learned: I never use "[COLOR=#000000]AMD Catalyst Control center", again ...with HD7770-DC-1GD5-V2. See [this problem]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2146225").[/COLOR]

---

