---
title: "Laptop trackpad not working.. please fix my xorg.conf"
date: 2008-12-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by haru1ove on 2008-12-28
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

This is it... this is all I have in my xorg.conf.
My ubuntu works perfectly, including mouse, but not trackpad.
It is weird how xorg.conf doesn't have mouse section and still works..
I know how to edit xorg.conf, and save it. 
Can you please tell me what I have to add to get my trackpad working??

Thanks!

---

### Post by Rohan Kapoor on 2008-12-28
What version of Ubuntu are you running? In 8.10 there is no mouse/keyboard/trackpad set up in Xorg.conf

---

### Post by haru1ove on 2008-12-28
8.10.
Sorry I forgot to mention

---

### Post by Rohan Kapoor on 2008-12-28
> **haru1ove said:**
> 8.10.
Sorry I forgot to mention

As I said that it is not configured in the xorg.conf in 8.10.

If it's been detected properly go to system-preferences-mouse and selct touchpad. Check that the first two boxes are checked (at least). You may also want to check the hardware switch on the touchpad (assuming there is one). Also check bios, some laptops have a habit of shutting them down in bios and not re-enabling them.

---

