---
title: "14.04 config for dual monitors AOC E2252Swdn"
date: 2014-10-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rob_s2 on 2014-10-06
Hi,
I am a newbie to ubuntu(linux) and am determined to figure out how to use it. I've installed 14.04 in openmodeset to 0 in order to get a display on the monitors which came up in a 640x480 resolution. I found some forum links that showed how to get the nvidia drivers installed along with the linux headers which did help bring the resolution to 800x600. My assumption is that the drivers did install since my resolution changed but am not entirely sure. The display settings don't allow anything but the 800x600 resolution and the displays list as unknown. I'm using a dvi splitter for the cables and the graphics card is a GeForce 210 (yeah the card is old but not needing the best graphics, more of a nuts and bolts guy). The best guess is that the xorg.conf needs to be adjusted to the monitors used? Please let me know what I need to post to help solve the issue. Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-10-06
Hi, welcome.

My best guess is you shouldn't be using a splitter. Have you tried just one with a regular DVI cable?
Most GT210 based cards I'm aware of have DVI, HDMI and VGA. 
For a couple of AOC E2252Swdn the best is to connect one to DVI and the other to HDMI via a simple HDMI-DVI adapter cable (no signal conversion needed).
You also need nvidia's proprietary drivers. Go to System Settings > Software&Updates and click the rightmost tab, "Additional Drivers", wait and select the proprietary recommend version, reboot and then open nvidia server settings and configure the desktop as you want, mirrored or extended and respective options. 

This should give you a proper Full HD experience.

---

### Post by rob_s2 on 2014-10-06
Thank you Galiza, I will need to purchase the adapter you recommend and see if I can make it work. Will post in a couple of days on the results.

---

### Post by MartyBuntu on 2014-10-06
Run **nvidia-xconfig**.

Everything you need for multiple displays is in there. There should be no need to go outside Ubuntu's package manager/updater for NVIDIA drivers for that card.

---

### Post by rob_s2 on 2014-10-11
Ok, so the main issue with my configuration ended up being primarily related to the splitter as Vladlenin5000 mentioned. Once I removed the splitter and used two different cables to connect the monitors then the configuration was auto-recognized. Thanks.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-10-11
I'm glad it's working now. :p

Please use the thread tools to mark this one as solved so others can benefit.
If you have other question please don't hesitate and open a new thread. We love to help people like you, ie, people who are nice and polite, people who give feedback after some proposed solution...

Happy Ubuntuing

---

