---
title: "n00b"
date: 2009-11-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by bradykyp on 2009-11-11
So, here's the deal. I'm brand new to Ubuntu - or any build of Linux for that matter. I am however tech savvy, so I feel extra stupid right now, lol.


My problem is that I've just installed the Ubuntu Netbook Remix onto my HP Mini 1030nr, and I can't get the wireless to work. I'm going to start from there and see how this goes, rather than trying to give too much information, or unknowingly giving the wrong info.

I'm also at a loss for what my administrator password is. I was installing two different OS's last night on two different computers, and I have a feeling I typed something without knowing what it was I was typing. Any way I can get that back?


Thanks for the looks, and any advice will be more than appreciated. Mayhaps I will be able to return the favor once I begin my journey into this strange new world.

-K

---

### Post by bradykyp on 2009-11-11
Also, if I'm asking the same questions someone else asked, please direct me to those pages. I've searched but haven't found much (mostly on the wireless issue). Sorry if I am posting the same thing someone else already asked!

---

### Post by Rayve on 2009-11-11
I'm no expert by far, but a little more info would be helpful.  Does Ubuntu recognize your wireless card?  Open a terminal (Acessories > Terminal in the netbook remix) and enter

```

lspci

```

to see what it returns.  Also, up in the upper right hand corner of your screen you should see some bars (grey with an x by them if you don't have any connection, blue if you do) or two dots with a swirly green icon when it is trying to connect.  Do you see either of these?

If you can also post the output of 

```

ifconfig

```that may give a starting point.  (If you copy/paste your outputs around CODE tags, it will be easier to read.)

---

### Post by jeb800e on 2009-11-11
Have you tried NDISWRAPPER?

---

### Post by Glyndog on 2009-11-11
hook it up online via ethernet and do updates. When i used ndiswrapper it didnt work until I updated my machine.

---

### Post by bradykyp on 2009-11-11
lspci brought back:

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 02)
01:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g (rev 01)
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8040 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller



ifconfig brought back:

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:22:64:7f:fa:f7  
          inet addr:192.168.1.7  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::222:64ff:fe7f:faf7/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:16470 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:10359 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:23770077 (23.7 MB)  TX bytes:842597 (842.5 KB)
          Interrupt:17 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)



And no, I haven't tried NDISWRAPPER. Is that something else I run in Terminal?

Thanks.
K

---

### Post by bradykyp on 2009-11-11
Oh, and the Administrator thing is covered, don't worry about that. 

Thanks
K

---

### Post by themusicalduck on 2009-11-11
Did you try System > Administration > Hardware drivers to see if there is a driver to download for your wireless?

Try that first before trying ndiswrapper.

---

### Post by Ahadiel on 2009-11-11
If you can get connected to the net, try installing b43-fwcutter.

Your BCM4312 should be supported by b43 and probably just needs the proper firmware to function.

---

### Post by bradykyp on 2009-11-11
Alrighty... I've tried going to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers. That will get me a grayed out "Wireless Connection (next line) disconnected" under the network connection, just under the Wired Connection.


I've tried to install the b43-fwcutter. Is there a particular way to do this that you know works? I've tried a couple different ways, and even reinstalling Ubuntu beforehand each time. Haven't gotten it to get me anywhere. 


Any other ideas?

Thanks
K

---

### Post by Rayve on 2009-11-11
I may be wrong, but I don't think I see a wireless card there in your lspci output, and ifconfig only shows your ethernet and loopback.

Check this page?  Maybe something here will help or give an idea.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide)

Post back if this brings up any more questions and we'll try to help.

---

### Post by bradykyp on 2009-11-12
Evidently for some reason the wireless switch does not turn blue like it does when windows is installed. So, when the light is on it is an orange color. Opposite of what I assumed to be the case, this means that the wireless is off. I happend to turn it to what I thought was 'off', to see if cycling it would reset the connection. Evidently what I was really doing was turning it ON! So, idk if other people have run across this, but for my laptop there is now no blue light that comes on. 

No light = on
Orange light = off.

Weird, but whatever works.


Thanks for all the help, 
K

---

