---
title: "Monitor Resolution"
date: 2009-11-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by ted_001 on 2009-11-27
Dear All,
I am having problems with 9.10, it does not allow me to set my monitor resolution correctly, and there is no xorg.conf file anywhere on the file system to edit manually.
I have a Philips 170C4FS LCD monitor which should run at 1280x1024 with a vertical refresh rate of 60Hz.
However the most that System/Preferences/Display will only allow me to set is 1152x864 at 60 Hz.
I have a nvidia graphics card, but when I go to System/Administration/Hardware Drivers to install and activate the latest nvidia driver, version 185, nothing happens, and the Downloading and installing window hangs.
All of the information I can get assumes that there is an xorg.conf file to edit, but there is no file with that name.
All suggestions?
Ted

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-11-27
Hi again,

korg.conf is redundant in 9.10, so you'll only want to use it if other avenues fail.  First let's try a manual driver install; you said you have an Nvidia card, so go [here]("http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us") and download the appropriate driver file (should be a .run file).

Press Ctrl-Alt-F1 to open up a terminal, and log in.
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop (this will kill x).
sudo sh nvidiadrivers.run (replace nvidiadrivers.run with the file you downloaded).
Follow the prompts during configuration.
sudo shutdown -r now (reboots).

Does that help?

---

### Post by ted_001 on 2009-11-27
Dear Ubuntu Extra Shot,
I have done as you suggested, and I have the lowest possible resolution, which is making it very difficult to navigate the desktop.
Ted

---

### Post by ted_001 on 2009-11-27
I don't seem able to configure the nvidia driver to give me anything but the two lowest resolutions.
Ted

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-11-27
Hi again,

Are you using the nvidia control panel?  It should be under System/Administration/NVIDIA X Server Settings.  If you can't find it there, run:

> sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings

Then check again.

---

### Post by ted_001 on 2009-11-27
It doesn't allow me to change the monitor resolution.
Ted

---

### Post by ted_001 on 2009-11-27
The problem seems to be that it doesn't recognise my monitor, and doesn't let me set the resolution manually.  I can only get 640x480 and 320x240.
It seems to me that the problem is that xorg does not recognise my monitor, and no longer allows a manual configuration.
Ted.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-11-27
Ok, can you post the results of:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by ted_001 on 2009-11-27
I have discovered that the nvidia driver has created an xorg.conf file, which did not exist before, and I have edited this manually.
I can now get the 1280x1024 resolution, but I was not sure what the vertical refresh rate was.  I have put in the monitor's range of frequencies, but I didn't know which one has been chosen.  So I used the nvidia X-Server settings to set it to 60Hz.
The result of the lspci command that you gave me is:-

ted@sanspareil:~$ lspci | grep VGA
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G98 [GeForce 8400 GS] (rev a1)

Regards,
Ted

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-11-27
That's great; so it's running as needed now?  Out of raw curiosity, would you mind posting your new xorg.conf?

---

### Post by ted_001 on 2009-11-27
I enclose my new /etc/X11/xorg.conf file  You can see from the heading that it was not generated by the defalt Ubuntu install, but by nvidia-xconfig.
I still think that the problem arose when xorg did not identify my monitor, which is odd because the monitor is by a well known make, and five or six years old.
I have entered the monitor 'HorizSync' and 'VertRefresh' and I had to insert a line into the file for 'Modes' because there was no line for modes in the file.  On the 'Modes' line I put the resolution '1280x1024' that Philips recommends.
I have set the refresh rate in the 'System/Administration/NVIDIA XServer Settings' to 60 Hz, which is what Philips recommends.
Many thanks for you kind attention.
Regards,
Ted

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Tue Oct 20 21:00:15 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-11-27
Thanks for that, glad you are sorted; take care.

---

