---
title: "[SOLVED] Hardy Heron NTFS Problem"
date: 2008-07-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-12
Hey every1,
I want to connect my external HD to my laptop running ubuntu hardy heron. I tried using a tons of guides (arstechnica, ubuntuforums etc) I am currently at the stage of seeing my external hard disk but I get the error ntfs 3g is not supported by your system (I also added a screenshot of my external hd which has two partitions (one is mac os journaled extended and the other one is NTFS-3g))



This is my output from:
**sudo fdisk -l && cat /etc/fstab**
```

Disk /dev/sda: 60.0 GB, 60011642880 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 7296 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00071ae6

Device Boot Start End Blocks Id System
/dev/sda1 * 1 6992 56163208+ 83 Linux
/dev/sda2 6993 7296 2441880 5 Extended
/dev/sda5 6993 7296 2441848+ 82 Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 4022 MB, 4022337024 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 489 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

Device Boot Start End Blocks Id System
/dev/sdb1 * 1 490 3928018+ 7 HPFS/NTFS
Partition 1 has different physical/logical endings:
phys=(1023, 254, 63) logical=(489, 4, 63)
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=ff30210d-314b-475b-88d3-11f3b1ddfea7 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=437a6060-bac7-4a0a-87ec-1f28ebd7c186 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/windows ntfs-fuse auto,gid=1001,umask=0002 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/disk ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0

```

Any help is appreciated, thanks ahead
Lawrencius

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-07-12
Have you installed the NTFS-3g configuration tool? If not, it can be added through the Applications->Add/Remove Programs menu.

---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-12
Yes I did (and I attached the screenshot now)

---

### Post by matt$2 on 2008-07-12
This is curious.  You clearly have ntfs-3g installed, but your system says it doesn't support NTFS-3g.

This immediately brings me to consider the state of your kernel.
I'd suggest the kernel doesn't have the ntfs-3g option ticked.  It's compiled without the necessary support.

Do you know how to check for it; 
make menuconfig in /usr/src/linux ???

You may need another kernel.
Await the next post.

---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-12
> **matt$2 said:**
> To you know how to check for it; 
make menuconfig in /usr/src/linux ???


I'm not quite sure what u mean by that. I tried entering this in terminal but it told me (make: *** No rule to make target `menuconfig'.  Stop.)

---

### Post by Daelyn on 2008-07-12
> **lawrencius said:**
> Hey every1,
I want to connect my external HD to my laptop running ubuntu hardy heron. I tried using a tons of guides (arstechnica, ubuntuforums etc) I am currently at the stage of seeing my external hard disk but I get the error ntfs 3g is not supported by your system (I also added a screenshot of my external hd which has two partitions (one is mac os journaled extended and the other one is NTFS-3g))



Boot the machine with a ubuntu live cd and see if things go all right there. If it does, snatch the live fstab entry and put it to use in the installed system. Just change the mount points to what you like.

Also, you can try change the fstab entry to ntfs-3g mode instead of the one you currently use.

I don't see any reason why you should have recompiled a kernel without ntfs-3g support like Matt$2 suggested.

---

### Post by matt$2 on 2008-07-12
The jury is still out.

I've seen it quite often in the past.  The error message stated 
"ntfs 3g is not supported by your system".
That suggests the kernel. However, there are further instructions to using 
make menuconfig,
but let's treat that as a last resort.

The fstab.

Let's test Daelyn's idea a little more.  
Whether you have a live cd or not, can you post your /etc/fstab.

---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-12
> If it does, snatch the live fstab entry and put it to use in the installed system. Just change the mount points to what you like.

Also, you can try change the fstab entry to ntfs-3g mode instead of the one you currently use.

I am going to be honest could you please explain this in more detail for a n00b thanks

---

### Post by matt$2 on 2008-07-12
Can you post your /etc/fstab?

Open up /etc/fstab in gedit,
Copy the content.
Paste it into your next reply.

That's posting your /etc/fstab.
Cancel that; you already have.
Be back soon.

---

### Post by matt$2 on 2008-07-12
You have

/dev/hda1 /media/windows ntfs-fuse auto,gid=1001,umask=0002 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/disk ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0

So /dev/sdb1 must be the external hard drive partition and
you have another on hda1.

Note how /dev/sdb1 is allocated ntfs-3g as a file system type.
The other is ntfs-fuse.
So can you mount the device hda1?
If so, shows that your kernel probably is lacking ntfs-3g support, but you have a second file system type.
So change the setting ntfs-3g to the other 'ntfs-fuse'.
Save the fstab.
Try mounting, then he and I were both right.

---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-12
```


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=ff30210d-314b-475b-88d3-11f3b1ddfea7 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=437a6060-bac7-4a0a-87ec-1f28ebd7c186 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/windows ntfs-fuse auto,gid=1001,umask=0002 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/disk ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8   0    0



```

---

### Post by Daelyn on 2008-07-12
> **lawrencius said:**
> I am going to be honest could you please explain this in more detail for a n00b thanks

If you do have a live cd, boot into it.

Open all the hdd's you can find in nautilus. They will automount, but, I'm still quite unsure if it will add these to fstab at all.

Then edit /etc/fstab by 
```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab 
```

If you see "/dev/hda1" and/or "/dev/sdb1" mentioned in there, which hopefully is the case, then copy that file and use it on your dodgy system. 

When it comes to "editing" the fstab, you should be careful. The only thing you should basically fiddle with is the mountpoints.

Here's the structure of how the static fstab mounts look

```
 <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>
```
which means basically
```
 /the/device /where/to/mount <filesystem> yadda yadda yadda
```


Anyways, easiest for you to do. Boot into the live cd, do a 
```
cat /etc/fstab
``` and post it here in a code box. if it gives anything useful for us, we'll edit it for you and can replace the one thats dodgy.

---

### Post by Daelyn on 2008-07-12
> **lawrencius said:**
> ```


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=ff30210d-314b-475b-88d3-11f3b1ddfea7 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=437a6060-bac7-4a0a-87ec-1f28ebd7c186 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/windows ntfs-fuse auto,gid=1001,umask=0002 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/disk ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8   0    0



```

Is that the one from live system? 
Looks identical to the dodgy one you have now.

Check if you can read/write when you're on the live cd

---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-12
> Looks identical to the dodgy one you have now.
That is the one from my HD. 
I'm in the process of (re)downloading ubuntu (even though I'm not 100% sure if this is the same as everything on the live cd)
can somebody confirm?

---

### Post by matt$2 on 2008-07-12
Re-read my last post.  I gave you the solution.
Here's a second. Try

sudo mount /dev/sdb1 -t ntfs /mnt/selected directory

---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-12
hey guys I still get this "you are not privileged to mount" error.

here is how my fstab currently looks like. Please dont give up on me...

```


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=ff30210d-314b-475b-88d3-11f3b1ddfea7 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=437a6060-bac7-4a0a-87ec-1f28ebd7c186 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/windows ntfs-fuse auto,gid=1001,umask=0002 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/disc ntfs-fuse,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 0 


```

---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-13
Would it help if somebody posted their 

sudo gedit /etc/fstab

And using that I would change things in my log?

---

### Post by matt$2 on 2008-07-13
You need the sudo command to mount anything outside yout system partition.  That MUST get you there. Generally I would

sudo mkdir /mnt/win
sudo mount /dev/(I think yours is sdb1) /mnt/win

viola

---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-13
After creating the directory

```

sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt/win
mount: special device /dev/sdb1 does not exist

```


fstab is still the following: 

/dev/sdb1 /media/disc ntfs-fuse,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 0

---

### Post by lawrencius on 2008-07-20
To whom it may concern:

I found an app. that lets me mount drives it's called: GPARTED

This is great; the only complaint I still have is that at the beginning when I connect my HD I still get the warning :"no permission to mount"

Any way to disable that initial dialog window?

---

