---
title: "9.04 No Power Management option to Sleep"
date: 2009-04-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by tamanaco on 2009-04-29
As I look at the Power Management selections of 9.04 there is no Sleep (Standby) option for when the lid is closed. There is a bar to put the laptop to sleep after a period of time or never. For when the lid is closed there are only these selections: Do Nothing, Blank Screen, Hibernate or Shutdown. In 8.10 closing the lid put the laptop in Standby and after a certain time it hibernated if the lid was not opened to save energy. After opening the lid I could continue working right away after entering the ID and password.  Now I have to move around with the laptop lid open as I don't want to wait for it to come out of hibernation or for it to reboot after a shutdown. Selecting to Blank the screen is not a power saving option that works for me as I might or might not return to open the lid in a short time. Am I missing something here? I'm using an old Thinkpad T20 which worked fine with the Power Management of 8.10. Is this a known Ubuntu 9.04 issue?

Edit: When I select the Power button on the top taskbar there is not sleep (standby) option. Also the minimum time I can set in the bar for the computer to go to sleep is 11 minutes.

---

### Post by tamanaco on 2009-05-05
Bump... Re-installed 9.04 from scratch using the installation CD and applied all available updates... including an ACPI update that was made available recently. Still there is no "Suspend" option from the Power button on the Taskbar or an option to configure the lid to "Suspend" when it's closed. Power Management was working fine on 8.10 with this laptop... but progress in Power Management  is pointing backwards with 9.04.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2009-05-05
Open gconf-editor (Alt-f2 > gconf-editor) then open apps > gnome-power-manager > general and make sure "allow suspend" is checked.

---

### Post by tamanaco on 2009-05-06
pastalavista, thanks for your response. I ran the Configuration Editor and the "can_suspend" Value under gnome-power-manager > General is checked. Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by mendo on 2009-06-16
i just installed jaunty on a toshiba satellite 2805 and am noticing the same thing.  any developments here?  thanks.

---

### Post by kpt_hadok on 2009-06-17
I had the same problem and the following solved it for me.

System -> Preferences -> Power Management -> General -> set "When the power button is pressed" to Hibernate. Set "When the suspend button is pressed" to Suspend.

It seems quite odd that this helped, but as long as it did the trick for me im a happy camper.

---

### Post by mendo on 2009-06-19
thanks for the help.  i checked that setting again, but it was as i thought - options for "when the power button is pressed:" are only "ask me", "hibernate", or "shutdown"

i wonder if my laptop doesn't support the standby state.  i know it has to do with acpi capabilities - isn't it S3 for standby or something?

i'd listen if anybody had any other ideas.  thanks.

---

