---
title: "12.10 Lenovo T410 WPA2 Wireless Issues"
date: 2012-12-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Rednarb on 2012-12-21
I'm having a lot of problems with wireless under Ubuntu 12 (both 4 and 10) on my Lenovo T410. It has a Realtek wifi adapter.

It does seem to work fine on my home wifi that uses WPA and TKIP but at work we use WPA2 AES and while it will authenticate and work for some time as long as up to an hour or so, it will eventually just lose connection and ask to re-authenticate. At which point it will never authenticate and repeatedly ask. Only a reboot seems to solve the problem (though I have not tried simply restarting the network service yet but I will at the next opportunity).

Any suggestions as to how to troubleshoot this further?

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2012-12-21
You're going to get better response posting on the Networking and Wireless section.

In any case: figure out exactly which Realtek adapter it is.  You might be able to build a newer driver by downloading it from Realtek's website.  Or, once you find out the exact adapter model (chipset, actually), google for that name and "ubuntu" to find other people with the same issues.

To find out more about the Realtek adapter, type this at a terminal prompt:

```
sudo lshw -C network
```

and post the output here.

---

### Post by Rednarb on 2012-12-21
> **ahallubuntu said:**
> 
```
sudo lshw -C network
```




Thanks for the suggestion - I'll give that a shot. Meanwhile, here's the wifi-related output from the command you suggested:
```
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: RTL8191SEvB Wireless LAN Controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 10
       serial: f0:7b:cb:9e:e9:88
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=rtl8192se driverversion=3.5.0-19-generic firmware=N/A latency=0 link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
       resources: irq:17 ioport:2000(size=256) memory:f2400000-f2403fff

```

---

