---
title: "10.04 - Laptop - Thinks it's got a 2nd monitor attached, but it does not."
date: 2010-07-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Roasted on 2010-07-05
I have a Latitude E5500 laptop. At one point in time I had a 2nd monitor connected to it. It has an Intel graphics card. I set up dual screen by System - Preferences - Monitors. I no longer do this anymore, however about 50% of the time I boot up, the laptop thinks the 2nd monitor is connected. It doesn't keep the resolution it should (1280x800) and often reverts to 1024x768. Of course, by changing it back on my own, it screws up my arrangement if icons in the upper right area of the top panel.

How can I set this so EACH and EVERY SINGLE TIME it boots up like... normal? It does not have a xorg.conf file. Should I generate one, somehow?

EDIT - I found a command online to generate a xorg file. I now have a xorg file. This is an Intel 4 series mobile chipset, or whatever. There are still times when I boot up, my login screen is gone. Why? It's on the 2nd monitor that doesn't exist. If I just hit enter and type my password, it logs in, proving that my login screen is off to the side. If I hit FN + F8 (my laptop's key to detect external monitors) it will auto-config the monitors accordingly, shoving the login screen back on my monitor.

Now, understand something here. If I just have to FN F8 now and then, that's completely fine. What pisses me off is the fact that there are times even if I do that my laptop logs in with 1024x768 resolution, when it should be 1280x800 resolution.

I'd really like to figure this out. Something so stupid is very irritating to deal with.

---

