---
title: "13.04, Lirc, and the homeade serial reciever"
date: 2013-06-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by dude99 on 2013-06-03
So I decided to upgrade my media center computer with a newer video card as well as a better sound blaster audigy that I had laying around so I could output 5.1 analog as well as run the newest version of XBMC smoothly. I also decided that it was time to upgrade the distro on it since it was running a now very outdated version of linux mint. I picked Ubuntu 13.04 this time as it seemed to be the best supported for this use.

Now the fun comes in, I have a homemade serial IR reciever that I previously used under lirc, and although I seem to remember it was a pain to get working last time as well, it has worked great for me up until now. I have installed lirc via apt-get ( I first tried to compile it however I kept getting an error about a system.h file that I have since learned is no longer part of the kernel) I have edited both my hardware.conf and lircd.conf files to reflect every guide that I could find on configuring lirc as well as edited the lircd.conf file to reflect the XBOX 360 univeral remote that I have always used with it. I have also used setserial to set UART to none, as well as double and tripple checked my com port settings.

As far as I can tell lirc is loading fine, it reports starting as well as loading modules OK. However when I run irw it receives nothing from my remote. I have a sneaking suspision that it is somehow related to the serial kernel module but have absolutely no proof of that. 

So here I kneel, pleading with you to help me make this work before I rip out my hair and launch the entire system out the window... What should I do?

---

### Post by dude99 on 2013-06-07
Ok,finally after much head scratching and swearing I got it working. I thought I would outline how for anyone else who is stuck on how to make this work. First off don't bother trying to compile the one from the LIRC website. It won't compile on newer kernels making it rather useless.

1) Ensure that your Ubuntu install is completely up to date, specifically that it is running the most recent version of the kernel

2) Open up the terminal and install LIRC using the following command "sudo apt-get install lirc" then enter your password and apt-get will install LIRC for you

3) Restart the computer

4) Issuse the following command to make sure that all LIRC components have loaded properly "sudo /etc/init.d/lirc restart" it should say both LIRC as well as LIRC Modules loaded OK. If either LIRC  or LIRC modules don't load correctly then you have a problem with your hardware.conf file. This file is located within the  /etc/lirc/ folder. I won't go into a lot of detail here as there is pretty good documentation readily available on how to configure it.

5) Now we have to set up your serial port for use with lirc. First we have to install setserial, which is the utility that handles serial settings. Install using the following command "sudo apt-get setserial" After setserial has finished installing issue the following command "setserial /dev/ttyS0 uart none" this assumes you have your serial receiver on com 1, which is true for most peoples computers, if not there is lots of documentation online about how to configure lirc on different serial port.

6) Now this is where all the guides I found stopped working. They will tell you to use the "irw" command and to press a few buttons on the remote to see if your receiver is working. This won't work. Neither will typing "mode2" as many other guides say to do, this will only give you an error. The correct way to test your receiver is with the following command "sudo mode2 --device=/dev/lirc0" after entering this command press a few buttons on your remote. You should get a bunch of scrolling text. This means your remote is outputting and your receiver is picking it up. If your remote is working at this point then DO NOT change your hardware.conf file in any further step, as far as that is concerned everything is working.

7) Now we have to tell LIRC what remote you have so that it can decipher what inputs its receiving. This is done with the lircd.conf file that is located in the /etc/lirc folder. The easiest way to accomplish this is to download an already made lircd.conf file for your remote and replace the one on your computer with it. There a lots out there on websites like this one [http://lircconfig.commandir.com/lircd.conf/](http://lircconfig.commandir.com/lircd.conf/) A quick search should get you where you need to be.

8) That's pretty much it. LIRC at this point is configured ans ready to go. However you probably need to set up whatever program you want to use your remote with to work with it. In my case I wanted to use XBMC with my remote so I had to configure\create two files to make it work. They are LIRCmap.xml and keymap.xml. The contents for both I found just by using google.
I got them from here [http://forum.xbmc.org/showthread.php?tid=51581](http://forum.xbmc.org/showthread.php?tid=51581) as I was using an old xbox 360 remote that I had found in a scap electronics bin. Note that the second page contains the correct locations to create these files as the first page locations and files are outdated. Also ignore the hardware.conf file that is there. You DO NOT want to change your hardware.conf file after step 6 confirms that it is working. From that point on all you want to change is lircd.conf as well as whatever you need to adjust for your particular software

9) Enjoy your remote.

---

### Post by sioxs on 2013-07-01
Thanks for the notes dude!
BTW: I am in the process of setting up a  HTPC with a remote from a ATI 9600 card. The box I'm using it on has a  ATI X1300 pro (no remote available) and out of curiosity wanted to see  if I could use lirc to run the remote anyway. After reading up on what  was nessissary and running into the same "suggestions" that gave errors,  I thought to check here on the forums here first before reinstalling or  recompiling anything.
Here's what I did to get a ATI USB Transmitter & RF Remote working:
1. located the pre-configured file in /usr/share/lirc/remotes/
2.  added an include directive pointing to the folder with the  configuration scheme for the RF Transmitter & Reciever in  /etc/lirc/lircd.conf
3. issued the command to restart lirc "sudo /etc/init.d/lirc restart"
& presto! it works great
Mind  you this is for a unconfigured hardware.conf file and I suspect further  customizations for functions to use with XBMC will require additional  mappings as is pointed out in #8 from the post above but otherwise alot  easier to do than what I was reading.

---

