---
title: "S.M.A.R.T. Data (is this drive going to fail soon?)"
date: 2018-02-18
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2018-02-18
the gnome disk utility shows a lot of reallocated sectors, but gsmartcontrol says differently
[[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/JwB450Xs.png[/IMG]]("http://i.imgur.com/JwB450X.png")
This drive was in a decade old computer i got free (claim was fried)
* missing ATX PSU screws (replaced)
* missing FDD cable (replaced)
* Dead FDD (replaced)
* missing pci brackets (missing 1)
* unplugged optical drive (fixed)
* unplugged 1934 front panel cable (not fixed, no plug for this O.o )
* bulging cap on motherboard (should be replaced, maybe later)
well it is now running off my flash drive, so not fried

the existing windows XP install just BOSDs with 2 seconds after post and power cycles before you can read it
my old xp install disk BSODed before it could attempt to repair it (maybe the ODD is failing)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-02-18
Any non-zero values for relocated sectors is a cause for concern.  Any value over 10, freaks me out and I replace the disk.  If it hasn't failed completely, I'll use it for sneakernet-type needs.

BTW, rather than posting images (highly inefficient), please consider using text and the output from smartctl -A /dev/sdX.  Text is 1000x more efficient and we are used to seeing the text output for commands like this.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-02-18
The system shows over 65,000 uncorrectable errors.
What that typically means: [https://kb.acronis.com/content/9122]("https://kb.acronis.com/content/9122")

I would replace it.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2018-02-18
> **TheFu said:**
> Any non-zero values for relocated sectors is a cause for concern.  Any value over 10, freaks me out and I replace the disk.  If it hasn't failed completely, I'll use it for sneakernet-type needs.

BTW, rather than posting images (highly inefficient), please consider using text and the output from smartctl -A /dev/sdX.  Text is 1000x more efficient and we are used to seeing the text output for commands like this.

```
smartctl 6.5 2016-01-24 r4214 [x86_64-linux-4.4.0-31-generic] (local build)
Copyright (C) 2002-16, Bruce Allen, Christian Franke, www.smartmontools.org

=== START OF READ SMART DATA SECTION ===
SMART Attributes Data Structure revision number: 16
Vendor Specific SMART Attributes with Thresholds:
ID# ATTRIBUTE_NAME          FLAG     VALUE WORST THRESH TYPE      UPDATED  WHEN_FAILED RAW_VALUE
  1 Raw_Read_Error_Rate     0x000f   098   077   016    Pre-fail  Always       -       65540
  2 Throughput_Performance  0x0007   164   100   050    Pre-fail  Always       -       182
  3 Spin_Up_Time            0x0003   124   100   024    Pre-fail  Always       -       161 (Average 160)
  4 Start_Stop_Count        0x0022   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       182
  5 Reallocated_Sector_Ct   0x0033   100   100   005    Pre-fail  Always       -       1 (0 1)
  7 Seek_Error_Rate         0x000f   100   099   067    Pre-fail  Always       -       0
  8 Seek_Time_Performance   0x0005   136   100   020    Pre-fail  Offline      -       31
  9 Power_On_Hours          0x0032   090   090   000    Old_age   Always       -       73022
 10 Spin_Retry_Count        0x0013   100   100   060    Pre-fail  Always       -       0
 12 Power_Cycle_Count       0x0032   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       181
184 End-to-End_Error        0x0033   100   100   099    Pre-fail  Always       -       0
187 Reported_Uncorrect      0x0032   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       65536
188 Command_Timeout         0x0032   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       0
190 Airflow_Temperature_Cel 0x0022   076   053   000    Old_age   Always       -       24 (Min/Max 19/24)
192 Power-Off_Retract_Count 0x0032   098   098   000    Old_age   Always       -       2562
193 Load_Cycle_Count        0x0032   098   098   000    Old_age   Always       -       2562
194 Temperature_Celsius     0x0002   250   127   000    Old_age   Always       -       24 (Min/Max 14/47)
196 Reallocated_Event_Count 0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       1
197 Current_Pending_Sector  0x0012   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       0
198 Offline_Uncorrectable   0x0010   100   100   000    Old_age   Offline      -       0
199 UDMA_CRC_Error_Count    0x0036   200   253   000    Old_age   Always       -       0
```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-02-18
Different devices have completely different meanings for the different values. There is no standard, which is why looking at the raw values is often the best people outside the storage business can get.

Every quarter, Backblaze posts their quarterly HDD failure stats.  If you go back a few years, they try to explain what each means for the different modules and manufacturers.  Even inside a single vendor, the numbers don't mean the same things. ;(

I would swap this disk out since there are multiple issues based on the SMART data, however, you should be aware that almost 30% of disks fail without *any problems* displayed in the SMART data.

If you can, switch to an SSD. Modern SSDs should last much longer than a typical spinning disk. That's what the statistics say.  I only have 1 system currently with an SSD.  I have backup religion, so that any disk failure is a minor inconvenience.  Had the boot disk fail for one of my systems about a year ago. Did all sorts of stuff attempting to get it working again - it was a 4TB.  After 2 days, bought a replacement and restored the system following my normal backup-restore methods.  Minor inconvenience.  The replacement disk should last 2+ more years, based on the warranty.  Drive makers have learned from the milk producers to get the exact expiration dates for their drives, just like how milk sours the day after the date on the carton.  When I was growing up, HDDs often lasted 2x the warranty and milk would be good for a week beyond the carton date.

Not anymore.  IME.  There are a few outliers for HDDs that last much longer than the warranty, but it seems to be the exception.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2018-02-19
When I have a hard disk that I can't trust completely I partition the drive so the first X GB are unused. After that I apply the normal partition scheme and install here.

This will move your install to areas of the disk which are less worn than the first / centre areas. 

I normally have most of my stuff in Google Docs anyway so not much data to lose on the local drive.

---

