---
title: "12.04 Acer Aspire One Microphone"
date: 2012-05-04
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Axxon95 on 2012-05-04
Any ideas on how to get the integrated Mic to work?
Everything else works perfectly.
12.04 32-bit

---

### Post by ewz on 2012-05-04
Not sure what model your Acer One is but this may help

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne522](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne522)

---

### Post by Axxon95 on 2012-05-04
I turned up Mic on the alsa command, and it still isn't working.
The Mic isn't showing up at all.

Will try everything though.

---

### Post by ewz on 2012-05-04
hmmm i just did a fresh install oh Ubuntu 12.04 yesterday on my Acer One 522 when I had 11.10 on it I had to do what is said in the link I gave you 
Just tested the Internal Mic now and it is greyed out in the sound prefrences, the external Mic works fine though.

I managed to ge the internal Mic working This is what I did:

First i installed PulseAudio Volume Control 
once installed I started the Application and went to the Input Devices tab,
down the bottom where it says Show change it to All devices, to show the Microphone, slide the volume sliders along a bit (Ive attached a Screenshot of this) 

Then I opened sound recorder and recorded my voice first using the external Mic and then the Internal one and it worked. 

I hope this works for you.

---

### Post by Axxon95 on 2012-05-04
I went into Gnome Classic and under the sound settings it seen the Mic, but nothing is being picked up. I tried my headset and it works perfectly.

---

### Post by santtumn on 2012-05-04
Same here. There is no input device at all. This is quite sad because Acer Aspire One + Ubuntu and mic has been  problem many years, in every version there is something :( Once I've got it working and again, problems. 

Acer Aspire One ZG8 and Ubuntu 12.04. 

Cheers,
Santtu

---

### Post by ewz on 2012-05-04
> **Axxon95 said:**
> I went into Gnome Classic and under the sound settings it seen the Mic, but nothing is being picked up. I tried my headset and it works perfectly.

yes the external Mic works Great but not the built in one, using the headset does give a better quality sound though. 

Ill keep testing :)

---

### Post by pc.maint on 2012-09-13
I have had this problem on numerous Acer Aspire One models. External mic OK, internal mic not working. This solved it on all of them:

1. Open a terminal window
2. type alsamixer <enter>
3. press F4 (you should see 2 controls, 'Mic Boost' and 'Capture')
For each control (change with left and right arrow keys)
4. press up arrow until at maximum
5. press C key until right side of indicator is at minimum

Job done.

(}:-)>

---

### Post by pc.maint on 2012-09-14
Addendum to my last comment:

Tried Skype again today, damn thing not working.....

Repeated adjustments again and then went into Skype > Options > Sound Devices

Removed tick from 'Allow Skype to automatically adjust my mixer levels'

Now it works again.....


I think this can now be marked as SOLVED (fingers crossed).

---

### Post by camillo on 2012-09-16
Thank you, pc.maint this solved my problem.

---

