---
title: "9.04/ Netgear Wg111v2"
date: 2009-06-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by convertoubu on 2009-06-11
Hi I'm very new to Ubuntu and I just dual installed Ubuntu on my 9 year old computer. If it is of any relevance the specs are (impressive huh? =P):

Sony Vaio
p3
800mhz
256mb ram
32mb videocard
40gb hdd

My problem is that I do not know how to get my Netgear WG111v2 USB dongle to install. I have scoured the forums, but I am now more confused than ever as to what to do. 

These are the only things that I got from researching:

I have to use the terminal and that's the part that confuses me (in terms of the commands and their meaning).
I have to type "sudo" for temporary admin rights. 
I understand that I need to download NDISWRAPPER (emulator for windows apps installation?) but I don't know where to get (more precisely the most recent version) that and how to install it.
Also I need to figure out if the hardware I have is the real WG111v2 or if it is WG111v1.
I have the most recent WG111v2 driver for Windows which is 3.04.

Remember my computer does not have an ethernet port so I am only able to get wireless internet.  So I would have to download the necessary files in Windows and transfer it through a USB drive.  Can someone explain to me in layman's term? I really want to try a different OS but I need the internet to really use Ubuntu.

Sorry for the long essay.

---

### Post by convertoubu on 2009-06-22
I hate to revive an old thread, but can someone help me with my situation? 

I know that the Linux community is the best and friendliest, so I hope that it will help ease me into using this OS.

Thxs in advance!

---

### Post by aesis05401 on 2009-06-22
You can identify pretty much all computer hardware by serial number, but wireless communication hardware is especially regulated in many areas - so you can usually look up by manufacturer serial or regulatory agency certification number, etc...

Example: I recently needed to ID an inherited Netgear Wireless router that evolved through three different versions.  There were no version markings on the unit, but a search at the official website showed that my serial number format belonged to v1 of the router product line.

After figuring out the version of your hardware you should check Linux hardware compatability lists for entries related to the hardware.. these lists usually link to driver download pages with explicit instructions on which version of the driver/ndiswrapper to use on particular systems.

This is how you should start.  There are a number of specialized wireless drivers in the linux world right now, it may be as simple as finding the correct tutorial for your hardware.

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2009-06-22
I also run Ubuntu and have a WN111 (but mine is V1). I looked it up on some reference (I think it was in the main Ubuntu docs site) and the only way is to use ndiswrapper. I just said, forget it.

I'll see if I can find the reference, again, and post a link.

Tim

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2009-06-22
Here it is:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsNetgear#USB](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsNetgear#USB)

Tim

---

### Post by goldenmcguinness on 2010-02-02
Hey so I have an asus netbook, the 900 HD and when i downloaded ubuntu the built in wireless card would not work, so i bought the netgear WG111v2 and it will not work. My system recognises it but it says the device is not ready, what do i do?

I know barely anything about computers could you please help me using the simplest words possible???

Thanks!
Caitie

---

### Post by Toni Maccaroni on 2010-05-26
Just for your info, I tried the Netgear W111v2 USB WLAN in Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx. It finds the card automatically, wich is nice, but the connection is unstable: long waiting times. So you think it has something to do with firefox, wrong!

Looked on all the forums, couldn't find the real fix, which is change to another Hardware. Don't waist your time! The Netgear W111v2 does not like Lucid Lynx.

I took a Fritz! USB used the wiki, works perfectly :P

---

