---
title: "12.04 64-bit Wifi extremely slow Toshiba Satellite P745-S4320"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by RichieB07 on 2012-04-28
Just installed 12.04 64-bit on my Toshiba Satellite P745-S4320 laptop and the wifi is unbearably slow (I'm typing this on my iPad). I have clue as to why it's so slow. I ran the "sudo iwconfig wlan0 power off" command and that didn't fix it.   Anyone have any clue how to fix it?

Here some additional information:
03:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N + WiMAX 6150 (rev 67)
    Subsystem: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N + WiMAX 6150 BGN
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 49
    Memory at f7e00000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=8K]
    Capabilities: [c8] Power Management version 3
    Capabilities: [d0] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [e0] Express Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [100] Advanced Error Reporting
    Capabilities: [140] Device Serial Number 40-25-c2-ff-ff-99-6c-c0
    Kernel driver in use: iwlwifi
    Kernel modules: iwlwifi
Don't know if that helps any.

---

### Post by RichieB07 on 2012-04-28
This thread here solved the problem for me: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1604087&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1604087&page=2)

Specifically the post 
> **thinkux said:**
> I gave up trying to get N working on my machine.  I was running 10.10 and in 11.04 and beyond wireless would not connect.  I decided to disable the N functionality on my card until  I can  resolve this in the future.

Running 12.04 LTS using a Centrino Advanced-N 6200 wireless card on a Thinkpad T410.

```
sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
``````
options iwlwifi 11n_disable=1
```Save the file and restart. 

Source: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/38826/centrino-wireless-n-1000-poor-performance-on-n-network/126758#126758](http://askubuntu.com/questions/38826/centrino-wireless-n-1000-poor-performance-on-n-network/126758#126758)

That did the trick for me, and I'm up and running fully!

---

### Post by ozmagoo on 2012-06-08
I've given up on 64 bit Ubuntu 12 on Thinkpad W500... it was unusable!  32 bit runs sweet on my samsung Netbook - and I will keep it there.

5 minutes to load images from web pages stored on my ROUTER!?  Unacceptable!  Tried disabling on-board WiFi and using a Atheros Based USB 2 WiFiN adaptor, same story.

I've replaced Ubuntu 12 on my Thinkpad W500 (2.8 Ghz Duo, 4 GB RAM) with 64 bit CentOS 6.2  and that's fixed EVERYTHING.

I've got Ubuntu 12 64 bit installed on my work HP laptop, quad-core 4 GB RAM, and it's usable.



I am disappointed.

---

