---
title: "11.04 doesn't support ASUS EN210 graphic card"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Hakimjo on 2011-04-30
I installed the a-Asus EN210 graphic card under 10.10  It worked and the nvidia driver installed through jockey ...

Two days ago, I upgraded to 11.04 and graphics don't work any more.  Any suggestion how to solve or work around the problem ?

Thanks !

---

### Post by lidra on 2011-05-24
I have the same problem. I tried the latest Linux x64 drives from N-Vidia page, and they are not working with EN210.
Same drive was working ok with 10.04 and 10.10. 

Bump.

---

### Post by lidra on 2011-05-24
If you go to Nvidia for your drives for Ubuntu, they will give you 256 as the latest. The latest is actually 270, and that works with EN210 and 11.04. This page has the links:

[http://news.softpedia.com/news/New-Nvidia-Linux-Driver-Supports-Ubuntu-11-04-196264.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/New-Nvidia-Linux-Driver-Supports-Ubuntu-11-04-196264.shtml)

There you need to pick the proper ones for your distro (x32 or x64). 

You make sure you dont have any other Nvidia drives installed. 
You upload them to your Ubuntu, then you run:
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-270.41.19.run

---

### Post by GlennW on 2013-01-09
> **lidra said:**
> If you go to Nvidia for your drives for Ubuntu, they will give you 256 as the latest. The latest is actually 270, and that works with EN210 and 11.04. This page has the links:

[http://news.softpedia.com/news/New-Nvidia-Linux-Driver-Supports-Ubuntu-11-04-196264.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/New-Nvidia-Linux-Driver-Supports-Ubuntu-11-04-196264.shtml)

There you need to pick the proper ones for your distro (x32 or x64). 

You make sure you dont have any other Nvidia drives installed. 
You upload them to your Ubuntu, then you run:
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-270.41.19.run

I realize this is an old thread but I can't find anything more pertinent. 

I received an hdtv for Christmas and I would like to use my ubuntu 11.04 box (which contains all my media) to connect to it and play the media there. 

I put this box together several years ago and it has seen quite a few upgrades since then. The cpu is an AMD Athlon 64 x2 4200+. There are 2 GB of RAM installed. The mobo is a Gigabyte GA-K8N. The video card is an ASUS EN7950GT (512 MB). 

There was no HDMI output on the video card so I picked up an ASUS EN210 Silent card which has the required HDMI port.

I installed the card in an empty slot and rebooted. I saw in some of the forums that to see if a card is detected that aplay -l would display that.

Here's the output from that command:

```
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CK804 [NVidia CK804], device 0: Intel ICH [NVidia CK804]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CK804 [NVidia CK804], device 2: Intel ICH - IEC958 [NVidia CK804 - IEC958]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

```

The ASUS EN210 doesn't appear to require a power connector but draws it through the mobo. 

At this point I'm stumped. Do I need to remove the EN7950GT so that the EN210 will be recognized? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by BL00PER on 2013-01-09
I might be a driver problem as well. cause drivers can interfere with one another. Try removing the older GPU and replacing it with the  ASUS EN210. That might solve the issue.

---

