---
title: "12.04 RAID Issue"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by wide_load on 2012-04-28
Hi everyone.

Since updating to 12.04 I have been having an issue with my RAID drive. It's a Nvidia fakeRAID and has caused a good number of problems in the past ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1873121](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1873121)) and now there is another one.

When running the command "sudo dmraid -ay -vvv -d -i", I get the following towards the end of the output

```
NOTICE: added /dev/dm-7 to RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac"
DEBUG: _find_set: searching sil_biadafcbaiac
DEBUG: _find_set: found sil_biadafcbaiac
DEBUG: _find_set: searching sil_biadafcbaiac
DEBUG: _find_set: found sil_biadafcbaiac
NOTICE: added /dev/dm-6 to RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac"
DEBUG: _find_set: searching sil_biadafcbaiac
DEBUG: _find_set: found sil_biadafcbaiac
DEBUG: _find_set: searching sil_biadafcbaiac
DEBUG: _find_set: found sil_biadafcbaiac
NOTICE: added /dev/sdd to RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac"
DEBUG: _find_set: searching sil_biadafcbaiac
DEBUG: _find_set: found sil_biadafcbaiac
DEBUG: _find_set: searching sil_biadafcbaiac
DEBUG: _find_set: found sil_biadafcbaiac
NOTICE: added /dev/sdc to RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac"
DEBUG: checking sil device "/dev/dm-7"
ERROR: sil: wrong # of devices in RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac" [4/2] on /dev/dm-7
DEBUG: checking sil device "/dev/sdc"
ERROR: sil: wrong # of devices in RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac" [4/2] on /dev/sdc
DEBUG: checking sil device "/dev/dm-6"
ERROR: sil: wrong # of devices in RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac" [4/2] on /dev/dm-6
DEBUG: checking sil device "/dev/sdd"
ERROR: sil: wrong # of devices in RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac" [4/2] on /dev/sdd
DEBUG: set status of set "sil_biadafcbaiac" to 2
ERROR: removing inconsistent RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac"
DEBUG: freeing devices of RAID set "sil_biadafcbaiac"
DEBUG: freeing device "sil_biadafcbaiac", path "/dev/dm-7"
DEBUG: freeing device "sil_biadafcbaiac", path "/dev/sdc"
DEBUG: freeing device "sil_biadafcbaiac", path "/dev/dm-6"
DEBUG: freeing device "sil_biadafcbaiac", path "/dev/sdd"
ERROR: no RAID set found
no raid sets
```It looks like each drive is duplicated as dm-* and sd*, dmraid seems to be detecting these as separate drives and trying to add them to the same array which explains the [4/2].

Any ideas on how I can fix this ? I had the idea that it might be possible to *hide* the sd* entries somehow ?

Thanks for any replies :D

---

### Post by ZhakaTaka on 2012-04-29
Hi dudes.

Have similar issue as **wide_load** has but with different RAID controller. 12.04 said that it can't install the bootloader at the end of the installation. It was.. Amazing! After I've restarted my PC I couldn't boot neither win7 nor ubuntu. BIOS was asking me to insert some bootable media, if to be exact.

I have 320+320 RAID0 with two partitions: ext4 and ntfs. In previous installers(11.04 and 11.10) I saw something like that:
```
/dev/sda
  /dev/sda1
  /dev/sda2
```Today I saw 6 entries. 3 for each physical drive I guess. (maybe 12.04 thinks the more the better?)
So after installation I had completely unbootable PC.

I really needed to boot at least win7 so I took my 11.10 boot flash drive (thank god I still had it), booted in live mode and performed actions described here:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/19789/restoring-grub2-on-software-raid-0-using-livecd-after-windows-7-wiped-it](http://askubuntu.com/questions/19789/restoring-grub2-on-software-raid-0-using-livecd-after-windows-7-wiped-it)

[COLOR=Silver]The most funny thing in that case is ubuntu is the one who wiped out bootloader, not windows.[/COLOR]

Now I can boot in windows. When I tried to boot in my fresh ubuntu 12.04 from that manually installed grub, I saw that(attached picture) just moment after hitting corresponding entry in grub.. Maybe.. It's the new Unity desktop?

Anyway, at least two previous versions (I mean 11.04 and 11.10) installed just great, without any problems.

So.. 12.04 is here. It's cool. And still beta. At least, if you have RAID, you can't install it without reading mans and using terminal. Can this be called release?

System description:
CPU: Intel Core i7 920
MB: Asus P6T
  Chipset: Intel X58
  SouthBridge: 82801JR (ICH10R)
  BIOS Version 0603

---

### Post by wide_load on 2012-04-29
Somebody else must be having this same issue and know how to fix it ?

---

### Post by ZhakaTaka on 2012-04-29
Created a _[COLOR=Cyan][bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/991106")[/COLOR]_ related to installation of Ubuntu 12.04 on RAID.

---

### Post by wide_load on 2012-04-29
> **ZhakaTaka said:**
> Created a _[COLOR=Cyan][bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/991106")[/COLOR]_ related to installation of Ubuntu 12.04 on RAID.
Lets hope somebody replies to that :D

By the way I have seen that graphical corruption a few times on boot, just entering my password and hitting enter presented the normal desktop.

---

### Post by Bandit on 2012-04-29
How did both of you setup your raid configuration? I know in the past with some hardware setting up even software raid can be a pain. The absolute best way I have had the best luck with is making sure your drives have a partition setup for raid and a partition setup for swap on each drive. There have been some occations that I had to create a /boot partition on the bootable drive to install GRUB to and make sure that raid was turned off in the bios.

The [Ubuntu documentation]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SoftwareRAID") covers this in better detail then I can pull from back of my head.

I did run into a problem with debian last year in which no matter what method I tried, it would never install GRUB to the /boot partition come hell and high water. But get post back both or your steps and I will try to pick through what I can and help you guys best I can.

Cheers..

---

### Post by wide_load on 2012-04-29
I'm not actually trying to boot from my RAID, I just use it for storage. It is a fakeRAID though (created using a cheap raid card) using dmraid and since I have no way to backup all of the data stored on it I can't really change the way it's created.

There is clearly a problem with dmraid though, with the previous version it would ignore the sd* entries and just use the dm-* ones.

I have tried rolling back to the old version of dmraid, but that ddin't seem to help.

EDIT: Thanks for replying :)

---

### Post by Bandit on 2012-04-29
> **wide_load said:**
> I'm not actually trying to boot from my RAID, I just use it for storage. It is a fakeRAID though (created using a cheap raid card) using dmraid and since I have no way to backup all of the data stored on it I can't really change the way it's created.

There is clearly a problem with dmraid though, with the previous version it would ignore the sd* entries and just use the dm-* ones.

I have tried rolling back to the old version of dmraid, but that ddin't seem to help.

EDIT: Thanks for replying :)

It sounds like you didnt set it up correctly.. This happens as it can be a pain.

Have you tried using mdadm? Using [Kragens old tutorial]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=408461") still works pretty good.

---

### Post by wide_load on 2012-04-29
> **Bandit said:**
> It sounds like you didnt set it up correctly.. This happens as it can be a pain.

Have you tried using mdadm? Using [Kragens old tutorial]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=408461") still works pretty good.
Then why was it fine before the update ? I have used mdam before on my other PC, but as I said I don't want to lose all my data on the drives.

When I originally set it up I added the two drivers to a RAID 0 in the cards boot up utility, then dmraid created the drive and partitions in /dev/mapper just fine. My point is there is so little set-up here it's not likely to be wrong.

---

### Post by ZhakaTaka on 2012-04-30
> **Bandit said:**
> How did both of you setup your raid configuration? I know in the past with some hardware setting up even software raid can be a pain. The absolute best way I have had the best luck with is making sure your drives have a partition setup for raid and a partition setup for swap on each drive. There have been some occations that I had to create a /boot partition on the bootable drive to install GRUB to and make sure that raid was turned off in the bios.

The [Ubuntu documentation]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SoftwareRAID") covers this in better detail then I can pull from back of my head.

I did run into a problem with debian last year in which no matter what method I tried, it would never install GRUB to the /boot partition come hell and high water. But get post back both or your steps and I will try to pick through what I can and help you guys best I can.

Cheers..

I've just set it up using corresponding BIOS utility. Stripe size is default. Something like 128k.. But.. Windows works just great, 11.10 worked great too. So I think the problem is not in RAID settings.. When I'll have lil' more time I'm gonna try to install 12.04 again and install grub manually using 12.04 flash.

**Bandit** thanks a lot for your reply. When I'll try to install it again, I'll post results here.

[COLOR=Silver]Sad P.S.
The worst thing is that prevoius ubuntu didn't have such problem and current one has. I'm a professional developer and of course I can read a lot of mans and finally get over this bug.. I'm .net developer, and moreover this is my home PC where I just have fun. So for me the fact that Ubuntu is down on my home PC is just lil' frustrating, nothing more. But what about those who are just users and can only click "next-next-ok" and use ubuntu as the only system for internet surfing and etc? or those who use ubuntu for productivity and hoped that LTS release will be really stable and reliable. They've lost time. Of course we can say that RAID is kinda exotic configuration, but.. 11.10 could install there out-of-box. That means that there are some PC's that could run 11.10 and can't run 12.04. That's called regression. I love watching ubuntu moving forward, but.. something's really wrong with last versions. A lot of new bells and whistles in GUI. At the same time much less of configuration tools. Samba became buggy.. Now GRUB.. What are those bells and whistles  for if I can't even install the OS? It seems that _[bug #1]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1") _is far from being solved.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by wide_load on 2012-05-15
Quick update for anyone finding this having the same problem. Installing multipath-tools and then removing it again seemed to fix the problem for me. Kinda confusing.

---

