---
title: "10.04 on Asus Eee PC 1101HA (my experience)"
date: 2010-11-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by cr0m on 2010-11-12
This is a record of my experiences so far in getting Ubuntu Netbook Edition (10.04, aka Lucid Lynx, aka Lucid) running on the Asus Eee PC 1101HA.

About me: I'm a computer programmer who has been using Linux as a dev environment for over 10 years... however, I'm far from a guru. My goal here is to show non-gurus like me how to get this netbook working. My secondary goal is to make it usable by non-technical people like those I live with, since otherwise Linux as a desktop remains just a hobby project for geeks like me.

Who is this for: me. Also for users who can use the shell (ie command line) but don't fully understand the package manager, hardware issues and other Linux arcana. I'd like to make this a guide for relative newbies to get their netbook working. Fingers crossed.

**Installation**

Created USB boot drive according to the instructions here:
[http://www.ubuntu.com/netbook/get-ubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/netbook/get-ubuntu/download)

Power down the netbook by pressing and holding the power button until the machine shuts down. Insert your USB boot drive. Power the machine back up and when you see the gray BIOS screen, press 'ESC' to get to a menu for choosing a boot device. Note that pressing F2 to enter setup, per the instructions on the BIOS screen, will not work. The BIOS seems to ignore the settings for boot devices there. ASUS sucks.

When the boot device screen comes up you'll see two options: your hard drive and the USB drive. Pick the USB drive. After the netbook boots up, you'll be given the option to run ubuntu live from the USB, install, etc. I recommend running it live and making sure that it's going to work on your hardware. The video will be sluggish, but make sure that it works. Check to see if you can connect to your network wirelessly, because wireless networking is the other area that the 1101HA has had some issues in the past. When you're satisfied, click the 'Install Ubuntu' icon on the desktop.

Note that while you play around with the live version, if you save preferences, choose passwords, etc, Ubuntu will preserve those when you do the install. It's pretty slick. Unless you're like me and set a few of your passwords to 'password', thinking that it didn't matter, since it would all be wiped out when I did my install.

Follow the instructions to install Ubuntu. It's pretty straight-forward. I like to have a separate partition for '/' and '/home', so I kept the two partitions that were already on the drive from the factory Windows install. I put '/' on the smaller of the two (~50G) and '/home' on the larger (~60G). There was also a small partition (~79M) that I put my swap on. I'm fairly certain that the small partition (sda4, IIRC) is the SSD drive. I have no idea whether that was a good idea or not. We'll find out!

After you've installed, Ubuntu will prompt you to update about 300-400M of packages. My advice is not to do so unless you're certain that you need those upgrades. My reasoning is that because you've been able to play around with the live version of the OS, you know that what you've got is functional. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Update: I did the installs and don't think they caused any additional problems.


**Video Issues**

There are two other known issues on the Hardware Support/Machines/Netbooks page of the Ubuntu docs:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks#Asus Eee 1101HA](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks#Asus Eee 1101HA)

The first one is the video drivers. You'll want to do is install the video drivers for the GMA 500 video card, also called 'Poulsbo'. The instructions are here:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo/](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo/)

Go to the section on that page entitled 'PSB drivers'. I copy/pasted the line that begins 'sudo apt-get' into a terminal, entered my password when prompted by sudo, and waited while the packages were downloaded and installed. Afterwards, I rebooted and my video was 10x more responsive, at a higher resolution, better anti-aliasing, etc.

**Wireless Issues**

Another known issue is with the wireless connection being flaky. So far I haven't noticed any problems, and in any case, I haven't figured out how to install software from the linux-backports repository, so I couldn't get the instructions on the Hardware Support/Machines/Netbooks page to work for me.

After suspend (ie netbook going to sleep), wireless networking is disabled. I'm not sure why this happens, but right clicking the wireless icon in the menu bar gives you a menu with the option to enable it again. I'd like for it to enable itself, but haven't investigated yet.

Update: System -> Network connections -> Wireless tab. Select your network and press 'Edit' button. Check 'connect automatically' at top of dialog.

**Audio Issues**

The final known issue is with audio cutting in and out. I haven't noticed that yet, but I haven't done much with audio yet.


**Recommended installs**

Open the Ubuntu Software Center and click on 'Canonical Partners' in the sidebar. You'll see packages for Adobe Flash and Reader. If you click 'Install' for Flash, you'll see a notice that you're not using the partners repository, and a button that says 'use this source'. Click that button and install Flash. That will also give you access to a bunch of other third-party packages.

You may also want to install Java, so you can play Minecraft! Or at least play a very slow version of it. Search for 'sun java' in the Canonical Partners and install 'sun-java6-bin'. Now that you're using the partners repository, you should see a repository called 'Partner archive' in the sidebar. Search for 'sun java plugin'. Install the 'sun-java6-plugin' that appears.

Update: Minecraft is too slow to play for me, but once I worry about some other issues I'll come back to this... :)

I also prefer Chrome to Firefox, so if you want that, you need to click on 'Provided by Ubuntu' in the sidebar and search for 'chrome'. What comes up is the Chromium Web Browser, the open source version of Google's browser built from the same code base. Install that.

**Function Keys**

Fixing Function keys (from here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9590359&postcount=1421](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9590359&postcount=1421))
```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

replace the line: 
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
``` 
with:
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor"
```

Then do

```
sudo update-grub
```

and reboot your machine.

For me, this enabled: volume, brightness, wireless controls. Suspend control still active. F3, F4, F7, F9 inactive. F8 (projector?) flashes screen.


**Suspend/Hibernate Issues**

Update: Ongoing issue. Check back to see what my current recommended fix/workaround is.

Out of the box, you cannot suspend (Fn+F1) or hibernate (closing laptop?) and resume your session successfully. The symptom is that you get a black screen or a Gnome login screen (Xserver and/or Gnome crashed?).

**STATUS**

*RECOMMENDED FIX: 1. (Last updated 2010-11-12.)*

[LIST]

[*]Fn+F1: No mouse cursor, drawing errors, desktop unresponsive.

[*]Close laptop: No mouse cursor, drawing errors, desktop unresponsive.

[*]Gnome Power Manager(?) menu (top right corner) 'suspend': locked screen/password prompt, white desktop, unresponsive.

[*]"s2ram --force": Suspend/restore okay.

[*]Shortcut: None yet.
[/list]

**WHAT I'VE TRIED & RESULTS**

1. I followed the 2nd tweak on the (Poulsbo page) to get suspend "working" albeit not w/out the terminal.

2. I followed the 1st tweak to no effect. I'm not clear if these two tweaks are exclusive (ie tweak 1 needs vbetool installed, not uswsusp).

3. Page 151 in the big GMA500 thread on the Video forum recommended this fix, but I don't have the files it suggests editing:
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/fix-for-suspend-and-hibernation-problem-for-laptops.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/fix-for-suspend-and-hibernation-problem-for-laptops.html)

4. From the comments on the post in 3, I found these instructions:

> "If your are running Ubuntu 10.04, then
Open terminal: Application > Accessories > Terminal

sudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/00sleep_module

Add a line at the end of file
SUSPEND_MODULES=&#8221;xhci&#8221;

Save and try to suspend.

If running Ubuntu 10.10, then release notes say:

When the XHCI module is loaded for USB 3.0 operation the system cannot suspend. Manually unloading XHCI will allow suspend to complete normally. To avoid future suspend problems, the workaround is to add SUSPEND_MODULES=&#8221;xhci-hcd&#8221; to /etc/pm/config.d/unload_module then the system can suspend normally. (522998)

Note difference in driver names xhci vs xhci-hcd. This is because the module has been renamed &#8220;xhci_hcd&#8221; in the latest mainline kernel (2.6.34-rc6)."



This enabled the Fn+F1 key to suspend/resume w/out networking after resume. The Gnome Power Manager menu (top right corner of desktop) 'suspend' option and shutting the laptop both still result in a blank desktop or Gnome login.
Update: Read on. On subsequent suspends, this wasn't reproducible. Still not sure why the behavior changed. Possibly because of 5? Currently this fix results in suspend/resume with no mouse cursor, etc.

5. After some reading the bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-release-notes/+bug/522998](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-release-notes/+bug/522998), I decided to try this:
/etc/pm/config.d/unload_modules
SUSPEND_MODULES="xhci"
Which suspended/resumed ok, but minus the mouse cursor! Going to try and suspend/resume again (Fn+F1), since the bug where I saw this workaround mentioned problems after subsequent suspends.

6. Decided to try 4 & 5 together.
This seems to work okay. Resume worked. Network enabled. Mouse cursor visible.
Update: After a subsequent suspend, the desktop didn't come back, and the monitor at 100% brightness. Confirming this again. Confirmed.

7. Trying 6 w/out a 00sleep_module file. No mouse cursor, desktop unresponsive, drawing errors.
8. Trying 6 w/00sleep_module (xhci). No mouse cursor, desktop unresponsive, drawing errors.
9. Trying 6 w/00sleep_module (uswsusp). No mouse cursor, desktop unresponsive, drawing errors.
10. Trying 4 again. No mouse cursor, desktop unresponsive, drawing errors. No!!!
11. Trying 4 again after reboot to be sure. No mouse cursor, desktop unresponsive, drawing errors. Weird.
12. Trying 4 again, after restoring the /etc/pm/config.d/defaults file from the uswsusp tweak (grasping at straws). Same.
13. Reverting to the uswsusp fix to see if the problems are specific to the xhci fix. Whew, it worked okay! Back to square 2. :)
14. Tried using Fn+F1 to suspend/restore (uswsusp fix active). No mouse cursor, etc. The problem may be related to the Fn key fix. :(
15. Doing a normal shutdown and then trying 4 again to see if it was 5 that caused problems or just luck that it worked in the first place. No mouse, etc.
16. Rolling back Fn fix, trying 4. No mouse cursor, etc. Put back Fn Fix.
17. Using 10.4 live USB and testing suspend/resume to see if the updates borked something. Live USB 10.4 has no problems with suspend/hibernate. Not enough disk space on USB to install/test w/updates. Can't test if problem is with Poulsbo drivers either, because they require reboot after install.
18. Trying previous kernel. No effect.

19. Trying method here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9378826&postcount=52](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9378826&postcount=52)
*update:/* the /sbin/pm-hibernate script is not there on my installation. I did some investigation and found something called pm-actions, but I didn't take any notes and then life interfered, so I can't remember what the outcome was. Investigating.

**Keyring Issues**

1. Changing keyring password. As noted above, I put a dummy password into keyring while using the live install and Ubuntu preserved it when I installed on the netbook. To change the keyring password to something more secure, I followed the instructions here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9266337&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9266337&postcount=2)

2. Getting rid of the keyring. A lot of people are overly annoyed with the keyring. It doesn't bother me, as long as it has a decent password on it. There are instructions in the thread in 1 for removing the password entirely and/or disabling it, if it bothers you too.

---

### Post by cr0m on 2010-11-16
I gave up trying to get suspend working with Ubuntu and installed Jolicloud. UI takes a little getting used to, but the video is supported and the suspend works out of the box.

Maybe Maverick!

---

