---
title: "12.04 NVIDIA GeForce problem"
date: 2012-06-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Madonk on 2012-06-22
I am having a problem with my graphics driver. I am trying to hook my laptop up to my TV via VGA, and I cannot get the screen to fill out. At first I couldn't get them to mirror each other at the proper resolution, and now the display doesn't even read the TV, even though it is mirrored on there, again at a smaller resolution then I want. I want to be able to use the laptop as a media server with a bluetooth keyboard and mouse. I downloaded some driver x something, and after I restarted my laptop the VESA driver is still in use. I know the driver downloaded properly because now I get the following screen shot on the additional drivers. How can I use this driver instead of the VESA one?

---

### Post by Redblade20XX on 2012-06-22
Check out this repository:
[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates]("https://launchpad.net/%7Eubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates")

-Red

---

### Post by Madonk on 2012-06-22
so what do I do from there? What do I look at?

---

### Post by Redblade20XX on 2012-06-22
What GeForce card do you have? If it's greated that the 6 Series, this procedure should work.

Alright. I would recommend you uninstall the driver you initially installed through the restriced drivers menu. 

X-Swat is basically a Ubuntu ppa with the most recent, stable proprietary graphics such as the NVidia you requested. Upon adding this repostiory, it will automatically download and install the most recent stable NVidia proprietary driver.

So first you want to add the repository to your source list so open a terminal and type:
```
sudo add-apt-repostiory **ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates**
```Then it will ask you if you want to confirm this addition and press the key it asks.

Afterwards you'll have to reupdate your package database cache by using,
```
sudo apt-get update
```And then installing,
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-graphics-drivers 
```This should download and install the driver for you.

-Red

---

