---
title: "9.10, Resolution Maxing at 800x600 GeForce 5500FX"
date: 2010-01-21
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Big Dave Smith on 2010-01-21
While installing Ubuntu, I came across a display issue yesterday.  I have a generic monitor, 1280x1024res, and a GeForce 5500FX card in this computer, but after install, I found the resolution was maxed at 800x600.  Switching to the proprietary drivers made things worse, lowering the res to 640x480.

It's been a while, and it seems my xorg.conf should be located in /etc/X11, but I do not have one there, so apparently I need to create one, but I'm not sure how, and I'd really rather treat the problem rather than the symptom here.  Is there any clear reason why this card/monitor would not be detected and properly setup by Ubuntu 9.10, and a clean way to fix it?

I tried using xrandr to create a new display mode, which I got to appear in the Display Settings utility, but did not work.

The specifications of my card:
lspci | grep -i vga
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500] (rev a1)

The monitor is seriously as generic as can be.  'AOC' on the back, but I know it's native res to be 1280x1024, as I said.

This is a brand-spankin'-fresh install, so if I'm simply unaware of a package needed for this card, or some simple setup, that could be the case.

Thanks in advance!  I really appreciate it.  Sorry if I've left out any important information.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-01-21
Ubuntu 9.10 doesn't use an xorg.conf by default, it tries to detect graphical abilities using EDID; that doesn't always work.

Before we continue, do you have nvidia-setting installed?  It's basically the nvidia control panel for Linux:

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
```

Then:

```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by Big Dave Smith on 2010-01-21
Grenage,

Thanks for the attention.  I did as you said, and installed nvidia-settings.  This gives me an official-looking nVidia control panel which has an option for resolution, which is currently set to 'Auto', but maxes out at 640x480 if I look for other options.

Graphic Card Information states that I have a GeForce FX 5500, AGP 8x.
I'm not sure exactly what we're looking for here, but I did notice one anomaly, that it says my display device is CRT-0.  I guess this isn't a huge issue, but does tell me it's not really finding anything about my monitor.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-01-21
I have a rough guide [here]("http://www.grenage.com/xorg.html").  Saves me retyping a load of info!

The driver name you'll use is *nvidia*.  To be honest I only wrote that the other day, so it would be handy to see if it helps you.

---

### Post by Big Dave Smith on 2010-01-21
Grenage,

You're the man.  The very first paragraph of your article solved my problem:
*"This is usually down to monitor issues, or the video cable connected to it."*

Just on a hunch, I pulled the unit out and looked at the cable.  One end was partially pulled out of the plastic molding on the connector, and must have damaged whatever wire(s) are used to send the EDID info.  I replaced the cable, and I'm sitting here with 1280x1024 resolution.

I guess understanding HOW your hardware works goes a long way.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-01-21
Brilliant, glad it's working now!

---

### Post by Zlobomir on 2010-04-10
Yes, this may be acceptable for common cases but I am using Ubuntu desktop as server OS, just because I like to have a mouse. Still, the server's monitor is switched off (actually I am not obliged to have one at all), and I am controlling the machine via VNC. Which does not work with the nVidia driver. And EDID never works. On top of all I have a generic funny-looking violet KVM switch with emulation. IMHO it is plain silly to forcibly make one piece of hw to depend on another one. Let's hope that 10.04 will be smarter. Right now I am trying to fix this and I am really pissed off, sorry if a bit sharp.

---

