---
title: "10.04 lucid, doesn't read my graphic card"
date: 2012-02-07
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by demoncloud on 2012-02-07
i have a sapphire radeon hd 6770 1gb gddr5 on 10.04 lucid

here's a link to my graphic card
[http://www.sapphiretech.com/presentation/product/?cid=1&gid=3&sgid=1073&pid=1190&psn=&lid=1&leg=0](http://www.sapphiretech.com/presentation/product/?cid=1&gid=3&sgid=1073&pid=1190&psn=&lid=1&leg=0)

is it because i need to download drivers, catalyst? does amd support ubuntu or any linux at all? i been reading a lot about trying to get it to work but no luck.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-02-08
You will need to go the AMD website and download the Radeon drivers for linux. Download it [here]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English").

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-08
I have the hd 6740 graphics card, I find that it runs really hot with the generic driver.
 but with the amd proprietary driver I lose the effects:(
Using 11.04 64 bit.
Let us know how it goes, I'm curious if you'll get any desktop effects.

---

### Post by demoncloud on 2012-02-08
> **wolfen69 said:**
> You will need to go the AMD website and download the Radeon drivers for linux. Download it [here]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English").


thanks but i won't able to install it until tomorrow and i show the results what happened after that and to you too jonnyboysmithy

---

### Post by demoncloud on 2012-02-08
i have a previous install of flgrx driver and its telling me to uninstall it. how do i do that?

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-08
Theres two ways to disable the driver: 
Method 1. In the top left corner, go to System>Administration>Additional Drivers. From there its a simple matter of clicking remove.

Method 2. This is from the command line, its useful if you cant use the graphical interface if something went wrong.

Terminal can be found under Applications>Accessories>Terminal, alternatively: Ctrl+Alt+T also works.
Open a terminal and  type in ```
jockey-text -l
``` to list the current active driver.

In my case it comes up with :```
jotham@Jotham-Laptop:~$ jockey-text -l
xorg:fglrx - ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver (Proprietary, Enabled, In use)

```so to disable it```
sudo jockey-text -d xorg:fglrx
```

---

### Post by demoncloud on 2012-02-08
i will try that

---

### Post by demoncloud on 2012-02-08
thanks i was able to uninstall it and installed the new driver. i adjusted the screen to fit as the monitor displays and it looked clear. i checked my hardware drivers and its not activated, should i activate it?

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2012-02-08
I don't know, it depends. My graphics card was running really hot and noisy until I installed the proprietary driver. But with that my effects went away as well.. 
If you install the proprietary drivers you usually get better performance if that is of importance.

I have dual graphics on my laptop, but to switch between them for better battery life I need the proprietary driver (I'm told. but it still doesn't work).

---

### Post by MoreOrLess on 2012-02-08
No, don't activate "it" ("it" is the the older driver you uninstalled).

---

### Post by demoncloud on 2012-02-12
> **MoreOrLess said:**
> No, don't activate "it" ("it" is the the older driver you uninstalled).

Thanks, i had to restart everything again, i should have been patient for an answer.

last question, if i were ever to get a new graphic card(the brand would be like sapphire, msi, evga, etc.) and it's chip was made from amd i must download the new upgraded amd drivers?

---

