---
title: "12.04 freezes on coldboot, not on warmboot"
date: 2012-05-01
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by KFoder on 2012-05-01
Hi 

After I updated from 11.10 to 12.04, my HP probook 6550b freezes on coldboot, it shows the red/magenta start up screen, and the dots, then it freezes, totally no mouse (cursor is visible) no ctrl+alt+del, only long press on the power button can make the computer restart.

At restart the grub menu is shown, thereafter the desktop comes up (most times).

I cannot find any errors in the logs, the following is from kern.log

```
May  1 22:33:11 Kims kernel: imklog 5.8.6, log source = /proc/kmsg started.
May  1 22:33:11 Kims kernel: [    0.000000] Initializing cgroup subsys cpuset
May  1 22:33:11 Kims kernel: [    0.000000] Initializing cgroup subsys cpu
May  1 22:33:11 Kims kernel: [    0.000000] Linux version 3.2.0-24-generic (buildd@yellow) (gcc version 4.6.3 (Ubuntu/Linaro 4.6.3-1ubuntu5) ) #37-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 25 08:43:22 UTC 2012 (Ubuntu 3.2.0-24.37-generic 3.2.14)
....
May  1 22:33:11 Kims kernel: [    0.000000] NX (Execute Disable) protection: active
May  1 22:34:12 Kims kernel: imklog 5.8.6, log source = /proc/kmsg started.
May  1 22:34:12 Kims kernel: [    0.000000] Initializing cgroup subsys cpuset
May  1 22:34:12 Kims kernel: [    0.000000] Initializing cgroup subsys cpu
```As you can see execution just stops after "May  1 22:33:11 Kims kernel: [    0.000000] NX (Execute Disable) protection: active", then I force a reboot at 22:34:12, then everything works !

It doesn't stop at the same place every time, once it didn't freeze at boot, and a couple of times I had to try tree times !

I'm using 64 bit Ubuntu 12.04 on a dual core hyper threading I5 (I believe) with 4GB ram and 120 GB SSD. 

I didn't have any boot problems with 11.10.

Any ideas ?

Kim

---

### Post by MonkeyPaw on 2012-05-01
Usually cold boot issues are hardware related, and that's when overclocking/modifications are involved. Have you tried adjusting some BIOS settings and see if that changes your results? For example, try booting with wireless, LAN, or CPU features disabled to see if one of those items is failing to initialize or bugging out the boot process. Not suggesting that this is a permanent solution, but it might help eliminate some possibilities anyway.

---

### Post by sorenmogensen on 2012-05-05
I am experiencing a freeze at cold boot intermittently - also under 12.04 64bit. I never get to see the dots, but only the dark purple screen, but otherwise similar symptoms.
(This on a brand new custom built PC)

---

### Post by Vitor Rolla on 2012-07-05
I did a brand new ubuntu 12.04 64 bits installation and after the setup of fingerprint-gui and nvidia twinview with 2 hdmi lcds yesterday, I am experiencing the same problem.

I'm suspicious that the problem is related to one of these two issues. Do you have a similar setup?

---

### Post by vak on 2012-07-15
any update on the issue?

---

### Post by KFoder on 2012-08-16
Hi 

Sorry I didn't get back with you, but after a some kernal updates, the problem disappeared entirely :)

Unfortunately after the last two updates, the problem has reappeared   with a vengeance, now every cold boot hangs, still with the dots and the mouse visible !

> Usually cold boot issues are hardware related, and that's when overclocking/modifications are involved.

It is the std. factory bios settings, I havn't changed anything, except the boot order !

It could have something to do with my wlan, as it is very slow to get online after the first warm boot, but not after any further warm boots !

I have not yet tested a boot without wlan, but will shortly.

Kim

---

### Post by Matt 6:27 on 2012-08-19
I'm seeing similar behavior and only very recently (w/in past week).   Running 12.04 64bit and have made no BIOS changes other than boot order.  Differences from others is my keyboard works fine, so I can log in, bring up the dash to run an app, and cntrl-alt-del.  I can move my mouse and the pointer will move as well, but left mouse button does not work.  When I then do a warm boot, things appear to return to normal.  As for similarities from others:  I have dual monitors and first thing I try to do after bootup is run nvidia to get twinview going (haven't permanently changed config yet).

---

### Post by cwsnyder on 2012-08-19
The first thing I would do from GRUB is delete the option **quiet** from your Ubuntu entry so that you can see where the hangup is occurring.  If you have trouble figuring out what is happening, you may want to make the change to /etc/default/grub to the line GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet" to remove the **quiet**, leaving the other options or leaving "", then doing a **sudo update-grub**.

What I have seen is that cold-boot related freezing is usually caused by insufficient wait time to allow a slow hard drive or other peripheral to initialize before attempting to access the item.

---

### Post by KFoder on 2012-08-19
> The first thing I would do from GRUB is delete the option **quiet**  from your Ubuntu entryOK, that would be worth a try ...

> What I have seen is that cold-boot related freezing is usually caused by  insufficient wait time to allow a slow hard drive or other peripheral  to initialize before attempting to access the item.     I don't think that's the reason, I'm using an solid state disk.

But some tests has shown that I only have the problem when booting while on battery power, whenever I boot on mains power I have no problem :confused:

Kim

---

### Post by cwsnyder on 2012-08-26
Even with a solid state disk, there can be wait states in the initial startup code where one process is waiting for another process to complete, but the other process is waiting for the first to complete!  When this is coded in the BIOS options, fixing Linux won't solve your problem.

It could be waiting for your battery to pass back through a certain state after starting a conventional hard disk or CD/DVD drive (which draws down the battery), but the SSD never draws enough to trigger the sensor.  On mains power, which your BIOS could also be checking, that portion of the BIOS may not be executed.

I am assuming for the basis of this argument that the original drive in the system was a conventional HD, not a SSD.

---

