---
title: "[16.04] amdgpu kernel oops"
date: 2017-05-03
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by aselker on 2017-05-03
Dell Latitude E5470, AMD R7 M360 graphics.  The integrated Intel graphics work perfectly, but when I try to use amdgpu with the AMD card, I get a kernel oops.    

The weird bit is that this happens with totally vanilla software.  It happens *on the live USB*.  If I boot in Legacy, it blackscreens (and shows the oops) when I select "try Ubuntu".  If I boot in EFI, it works for a while, but dmesg shows the kernel oops, and if I switch the X provider to the AMD card then  OpenGL stops working -- glxgears, for instance, displays nothing and freezes the terminal.    

I can't get a dump of the oops, because the computer crashes, but it's pretty clearly amdgpu-related, and the first line is "BUG: unable to handle kernel NULL pointer dereference... "

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-05-04
HI, welcome to the fora.
This is new hardware so better to try some new software. How does it work in a live boot of 17.04?

---

### Post by aselker on 2017-05-08
I tried 17.04 and it worked perfectly.  Unfortunately, updating my install isn't an option.  Is there any way to get the newer software required (kernel? amdgpu module?) in 16.04?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-05-08
aselker' Hello;

> 
Is there any way to get the newer software required (kernel? amdgpu module?) in 16.04?

Short answer is Yes .
One can install the 17.04 kernel and X stack .
See: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)

[INDENT][INDENT]fingers crossed
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]maybe workie great
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

