---
title: "10.04 &amp; HP D1660 problems"
date: 2010-06-14
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by flyfishingphil on 2010-06-14
Found other entries on this but they had been around a bit (three weeks or more) and didn't address what I am finding for problems. Tried in Absolute but no responses there.

System info in signature. Printer is HP Deskjet D1660.

Went thru Synaptics and uninstalled everything I could find directly related to HP so I would start "fresh" with the HP "Wizard" at:
[hplipopensource.com/hplip....html]("http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/install/install/index.html") that provides the step-bystep for updating with the HP 3.10.5 (10.04 came with 3.10.2 and it didn't work)

 All went well until it gets to plugin/restart printer, window opens with printer listed but it also says no ppd found for the D1660.
[I]
Error reads: no ppd found for model deskjet_d1600_series[/I]. 

Looked thru everything in Software Center and Synaptics and saw nothing that included the "ppd for the D1660". Lots of Laserjet and Designjets listed, but no Deskjets. Where would I find the ppd's it calls for?

Another error that popped up read:*"var/tmp/kdecache - flyfishingphil" is owned by uid 1000 instead of 0* 

Is this something I need to rest and, if so, how?

Everything worked fine in 9.10 but made the mistake of upgrading to 10.04 and found lots of problems after the test run.

Also, if it would be easier to do, and wait for the Meerkat Manor would be a good idea, how would I "backgrade" to 9.10 without doing a format? I need to do a some repartitioning anyway, but I am using VBox and XP for some particular programs (like SE cell phone suite, my gps, and a couple of programs) so I don't want to format that out and have to go to MS to get what would be needed to re-install that XP. (Install more in more
than one computer and it's read as counterfeit. Format, and reinstall, and it reads it as a new computer.)

Thanks for helping out the old newbies that get lost easily.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-06-14
> Also, if it would be easier to do, and wait for the Meerkat Manor would be a good idea, how would I "backgrade" to 9.10 without doing a format?

1) I would try a clean install of 10.04 and see if that fixes the problems.  

2) The only way to do a "backgrade" is to reinstall 9.10.

3) Either way you need to reformat the root partition.  Also the swap will be automatically reformatted too.

---

### Post by flyfishingphil on 2010-06-14
> **Sef said:**
> 1) I would try a clean install of 10.04 and see if that fixes the problems.  

2) The only way to do a "backgrade" is to reinstall 9.10.

3) Either way you need to reformat the root partition.  Also the swap will be automatically reformatted too.
I have 10.04 on disc, and had installed it before but hit a wrong button and formatted everything, so I went back to 9.10 then did the "Update" offer of upgrading. If I did a "clean install" from the cd would that wipe out the VBox, and everything in it, or would it just rewrite the existing 10.04? (Used windows for a loong time and used to having it do a total format before re-installing.)

BTW thanks for the quick reply.

---

### Post by volaer on 2010-08-09
Guys, kindly refer to this one:

[http://bloggervince.blogspot.com/2010/08/how-to-install-hp-d1660-in-ubuntu.html]("http://bloggervince.blogspot.com/2010/08/how-to-install-hp-d1660-in-ubuntu.html")

---

