---
title: "8.04 Laptop Battery Issues"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rastakid on 2008-04-24
Hi all,

After downloading and burning the 8.04 ISO released today I quickly ran the LiveCD to see what's new :) So far, so good. Although there's a lot of new good stuff in it, there's one problem which may keep me hooked on 7.10: the support of my laptop battery.

I'm running Ubuntu on a MSI Megabook S271, the battery is identified as model: 'MS-1058'. The problem: Hardy Heron does not recognize the correct state of the battery or its charge level. With no external power connected Hardy Heron reports the battery as being charged, stating it's 0% charged).

If I boot the LiveCD with 'noacpi acpi=off' it simply boots without the battery indicator (as expected). The problem is that I really like it when the laptop shuts down cleanly when there's only a little battery juice left.

Does anyone else come across this issue?

 - Vincent van Scherpenseel

---

### Post by msingletary on 2008-04-25
Yes, I am experiencing this exact issue on a Sony VAIO VGN-N385E.

Hardy does not detect when I am on or off of battery power and instead reports that "Computer is running on AC power" at all times.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by zombiepig on 2008-04-26
Same behaviour here on my wife's S271 - on AC the battery indicator will alternate between 0% and 100% charging, on battery power the indicator incorrectly states it's still on AC.

---

### Post by acron1 on 2008-04-27
The battery and charge state is correctly identified for my laptop in Hardy.

---

### Post by Schiphol on 2008-04-29
Same here, with a Philips Freevents. With 6.06 I used to work w/o battery all the time. Now, I can't take it off or the laptop won't run :(

---

### Post by frenchtomytoast on 2008-04-29
I'm running into the same problem on a Sony VAIO VGN-FZ280E.
It worked perfectly in Gutsy but on a clean install of Hardy, it doesn't work. 

Thanks to anyone with some advice.

---

### Post by zzottt on 2008-04-30
I have the same problem on a HP/Compaq 6910p

---

### Post by zombiepig on 2008-04-30
here's a bug report for it: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi/+bug/218094](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi/+bug/218094)

It'd be good if everyone affected could add their details in, so there's more chance of finding a fix. One temporary fix that works is to hibernate and rewake the laptop, and for some reason the battery indicator works after that (on an s271, anyway).

---

### Post by zzottt on 2008-04-30
"hibernate and rewake the laptop"

didnt work for me :(

---

### Post by rastakid on 2008-05-19
I found the following work-around suggested in the bug report to be working for me :)

> A workaround that is working for me (so far) is to add msi-laptop to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, which will prevent the msi-laptop module being autoloaded.

One-liner for your terminal:

> sudo echo "blacklist msi-laptop" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

Kind Regards,
Vincent van Scherpenseel

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2008-05-23
Sony Vaio PCG-FXA48

I don't thing the default "Power Management" works right.

I installed kpowersave (it's in the repositories) on my PCG-FXA48 rebooted to xp and made sure everything was fine there as far as the battery was concerned (fully charged and being read) then rebooted back into ubuntu (while running on battery) and the battery info shows up like it should.

Even ran it for a couple hours on battery mousing over the battery indicator once in a while and it gradually dropped and gave a realistic estimate of charge left.

It finally got down to 15% left a few minutes ago at which time I plugged the power back in and it now shows it on a/c power and charging when mousing over it. 17% and charging with 30 mins. of approx. battery run time left.

kpowersave will be in Applications>System Tools when installed and it has a few more options than "Power Management"

---

### Post by Hakantan on 2008-07-02
I have a toshiba l10-102 always shows on AC power no matter what. But the percentage decreases when i pulled of the plug. It is working perfectly fine on gutsy gibbon:(

---

