---
title: "9.04 black screen on laptop"
date: 2009-07-05
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by brucebr on 2009-07-05
8.10 was running fine, but I was having graphics problems with the default driver, so I installed the Ubuntu recommended Nvidia 180 driver on my laptop which has Nvidia GeForce 8400m GS video card.  Then, I installed 9.04 Jaunty.  Everything was downloaded and installed correctly, etc.  My box has never started again.  All I get now is a black screen.  I've tried alt - f4, f4 only, delete, fn-f4, esc, and any other key combos I can think of at start up.  No picture of anything whatsoever.  Everything except graphics seems to be running. My laptop is totally dead in the water.  Does anyone have any ideas on how to force safe mode or low graphics mode?  Or force anything to appear on the screen?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-07-05
> **brucebr said:**
> 8.10 was running fine, but I was having graphics problems with the default driver, so I installed the Ubuntu recommended Nvidia 180 driver on my laptop which has Nvidia GeForce 8400m GS video card.  Then, I installed 9.04 Jaunty.  Everything was downloaded and installed correctly, etc.  My box has never started again.  All I get now is a black screen.  I've tried alt - f4, f4 only, delete, fn-f4, esc, and any other key combos I can think of at start up.  No picture of anything whatsoever.  Everything except graphics seems to be running. My laptop is totally dead in the water.  Does anyone have any ideas on how to force safe mode or low graphics mode?  Or force anything to appear on the screen?

Hi and welcome, are you able to boot into recovery mode, which is usually the second choice from the grub when booting?

---

### Post by brucebr on 2009-07-05
I'd like to boot into anything, but I have not been able to boot into recovery mode or anything else.  It looks like everything is working except the screen.  It's just blank, black, dead, dormant, or whatever.  There is no choice from grub or anything else because absolutely nothing shows up on the screen no matter what I've tried.

---

