---
title: "Reassign mouse functions on a touchpad?"
date: 2008-05-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by iTawm on 2008-05-29
I just switched from Vista to Ubuntu and need to reassign my laptop's touchpad buttons. The right and left buttons work properly, but the up and down scroll buttons are currently inverted (ie. scroll up button scrolls down and vice versa) and the left&right buttons on the middle button do nothing. What file do I need to edit, and how do I need to edit it so the scroll is in the correct direction, and the right-middle button will be a middle click?

---

### Post by iTawm on 2008-05-30
Anyone able to help me ?

---

### Post by iTawm on 2008-05-30
It appears that looking through the help documentation, (sepcifically this article: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ManyButtonsMouseHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ManyButtonsMouseHowto) ) I can middle click again. But the middle click button is the left-center, instead of the right-center, as it should be. And the up-center still scrolls down, and the down-center, still scrolls up. Any help?


My /etc/X11/xorg.conf file looks like this:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"7 6"

	Option		"Buttons"		"7"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

