---
title: "10.04 Lucid Lynx on an Asus EEE PC 1101 HA?"
date: 2010-04-22
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by danrough on 2010-04-22
Have any of the early adopters / beta testers out there either heard suggestions that 10.04 will work on the above machine or seen it for themselves?

I tried installing 9.10 Hardy Heron when I first got the machine and whilst I did get it working in part, it just wasn't happy and as such, I reverted to XP. I was hoping that some of the issues with the new nVidia driver now for example might have been resolved between the versions.

Any information would be gratefully received (obviously positive confirmation would be more so!)

Cheers, Dan

---

### Post by dalee on 2010-04-22
Hi,

I'm running Lucid on a 1101HA and I'm pretty happy with it. I started with UNR. I wasn't happy with the performance, so I did an upgrade to Lucid. I have a much snappier machine now.

Interestingly, I can log into either the Remix desktop or Gnome.

Only real downside, I can't connect and print to a Kodak wireless 5250 printer. So I have to keep XP on it to print. But that's Kodak's fault, not Ubuntu.

So 10.04 gets two thumbs up from me!

dalee

---

### Post by dalee on 2010-04-23
Hi,

Just to update, I finally got a driver for the Kodak printer to compile. So I now have a printer. So I think I will wipe XP off and go total Lucid.

dalee

---

### Post by landymann on 2010-04-24
Hi I have Lucid 10.04 RC on my eee 1000 and it has an excellent boot up time though the acpi interfaces to turn wifi on and off ect... don't seem to be working and the eee utility in the software centre is rubbish but other than that it's fine.

David

PS I recommend changing the theme!

---

### Post by danrough on 2010-04-24
Dalee,

Thanks for your response. When I installed hardy heron, I had to spend a fair amount of time trying to sort the graphics drivers out because of the Intel GMA chipset, has this been sorted as part of Lucid?

I also found in heron that the WiFi connection would randomly drop out, have you seen this behaviour at all on lucid?

Thanks, Dan.

---

### Post by argos3016 on 2010-04-24
Ubuntu begins having RT2860 network manager support in Jaunty, so yes.

---

### Post by danrough on 2010-04-24
In fact, sorry; I got my version names and numbers mixed up. I've previously tried to install 9.10, Karmic Koala on an Asus 1101HA and ended up being left with an awful lot of hacking around to get a graphics driver to work for it (Paulsbo) and then the WiFi kept on dropping out.

I'm presuming Dalee that this isn't happening now and Argos, apologies for confusing the issue somewhat.

---

### Post by dalee on 2010-04-24
Hi,

All the hardware worked fine for me with no fiddling required. Except for the Kodak printer which is now solved too. Even the built in webcam works. Though I don't Skype, so I can't say how that works nor do I care. As an aside, the Intel GMA was supposedly done by a third party for Intel. And there are complaints about the video driver even for Windows.

Personally, I felt Karmic did not work well on my 1101HA too. So I did the upgrade to Lucid at the first beta and haven't looked back.

Now I just need to find the time to reformat the whole drive and drop the dual boot with XP.

Good Luck!

dalee

---

### Post by ingcorra on 2010-04-28
> **danrough said:**
> Dalee,

Thanks for your response. When I installed hardy heron, I had to spend a fair amount of time trying to sort the graphics drivers out because of the Intel GMA chipset, has this been sorted as part of Lucid?

actually there is NOT a working gma500 driver for Ubuntu 10.04...
follow this thread

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345&page=46&highlight=gma500](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1229345&page=46&highlight=gma500)

---

### Post by Sprutnik on 2010-04-28
> **landymann said:**
> ...though the acpi interfaces to turn wifi on and off ect... don't seem to be working and the eee utility in the software centre is rubbish ...


Have you tried using eee-control instead ? It's working great on my 1005HA.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-04-28
> **danrough said:**
> Dalee,

Thanks for your response. When I installed hardy heron, I had to spend a fair amount of time trying to sort the graphics drivers out because of the Intel GMA chipset, has this been sorted as part of Lucid?
...

GMA chipset? I thought you said nvidia in post #1. Which is it?

---

### Post by electroman76 on 2010-04-28
I had the same problems and went back to XP, yet then tried Windows 7 and it works great when compared to XP. The Available graphics Ram goes up to 700+ MB with 2 GB of RAM installed. Now if only the community would get Pualsbo working I imagine this system would work great with Ubuntu. We can only hope !
 
Now if only Intel was not giving us the shaft we would not even be having this problem !

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-04-29
> **electroman76 said:**
> I had the same problems and went back to XP, yet then tried Windows 7 and it works great when compared to XP. The Available graphics Ram goes up to 700+ MB with 2 GB of RAM installed. Now if only the community would get Pualsbo working I imagine this system would work great with Ubuntu. We can only hope !
 
Now if only Intel was not giving us the shaft we would not even be having this problem !
I am typing this from a 'Poulsbo crippled' Dell mini 10 running Karmic UNR quite happily. Corporate suckers at Intel had made it hard to install the driver, but otherwise, no complains. I've also run Jaunty on it before Karmic.

---

### Post by jbernardo on 2010-05-02
> **landymann said:**
> Hi I have Lucid 10.04 RC on my eee 1000 and it has an excellent boot up time though the acpi interfaces to turn wifi on and off ect... don't seem to be working and the eee utility in the software centre is rubbish but other than that it's fine.

On the 1101HA the eeepc-laptop module won't load because [ACPI is broken]("http://help.lockergnome.com/linux/ACPI-device-ASUS-EEEPC-1101HA-added--ftopict514076.html"). And since it is now difficult to impossible to load your own DSDT...
According to that thread, the only hope is that someone, someday, will implement an asus-wmi driver, but I don't have much hope.

Edit: [http://wiki.debian.org/DebianEeePC/Model/1001HA](http://wiki.debian.org/DebianEeePC/Model/1001HA) - you need to edit /etc/default/grub and add acpi_osi='Linux' to the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT. I also tried "!Windows 2009" but it didn't work for me. YMMV

---

### Post by scicode on 2010-05-20
typing on a 1101ha on lucid UNE with nice screen resolution and wlan
now i need to get multitouch fn-keys and eee-control working, any hints for that?

---

### Post by jbernardo on 2010-05-21
> **scicode said:**
> typing on a 1101ha on lucid UNE with nice screen resolution and wlan
now i need to get multitouch fn-keys and eee-control working, any hints for that?

Multitouch seems definitively broken, at least under kde. Even the old trick of adding a synaptics fdi to hal policy doesn't help (perhaps because hal is deprecated).
FN keys in gnome/UNR seem to need another brightness parameter (*acpi_backlight=vendor)*, and for eee-control check my post [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9324361&postcount=877"). Also check that thread, as we are posting any progress with the poulsbo drivers there.

---

### Post by cr0m on 2010-11-07
I know this is a bit of thread necromancy, but have any of you been able to get suspend (ie the laptop goes to sleep when closed and/or the Fn+F1 buttons are pressed) and wake working?

I can only suspend using this tweak:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo#Suspend](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo#Suspend) by using uswsusp

Which requires sudoing a certain command... not optimal for the non-technical members of my family...

---

