---
title: "12.04LTS and A8-3850 working! ON VGA!"
date: 2012-04-13
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by MonkeyPaw on 2012-04-13
I know there has been much discussion on Llano compatibility already, but after much effort, I finally have my A8-3850 on an ASUS F1A75-M motherboard working, and I thought I'd share my approach to help others. The issue is listed as "patched" but even beta 2 of 12.04 LTS was giving me blank screens on my VGA-port monitor. I searched high and low on forums, but none of the tips and tricks worked. 

-I tried starting at 11.04 and upgrading, which failed time and time again. (graphics lagged badly on 11.04 too)

-I tried installing from the text-only installer, which left me lost at the command line (I'm no expert). 

-Try HDMI first? Unfortunately, my board has no HDMI, so that option was out. 

Finally, I got the idea to install a graphics card for the install process and see if I could get the drivers installed later. In my case, I used an old 8800GTS 512mb. Once it was installed, I went into the BIOS and made sure that the IGFX
was "Enabled" instead of AUTO, as I believe in AUTO it will disable. I left the graphics buffer on AUTO, and I kept the PCIE slot as the primary graphics. This way I figured the AMD Sumo graphics would be detected during install. Once that was done, I plugged into my 8800GTS and started the installer. I did not let it download updates (to save time in case it was another fail). 

The install went as planned, and I rebooted running plugged into the 8800GTS. From there, I went to AMD's site and downloaded the Catalyst 12.3s. Before running that, I went into Jockey (Additional Drivers) and disabled the nVidia graphics driver. I did NOT reboot yet. After Jockey did its thing, I ran the Catalyst install (sh ./[filename].run) and attempted to reboot. The system failed to shut down correctly, so I did it manually. From there, I left the 8800GTS installed, but now I plugged into the motherboard VGA. Fired up the machine, and after about 10 seconds of blank screen, I had a picture in Ubuntu! :D

From there, I just shut down and removed the 8800GTS and made no additional BIOS changes. System still works, and now I get a boot splash screen for 2 seconds. :D Currently downloading a bunch of updates.

Hope that helps anyone who's been stumped like I was for the last few weeks.

---

### Post by MonkeyPaw on 2012-04-13
I guess I spoke too soon. After running the 300MB+ of updates, I now boot to a generic login screen and no GUI. :( No idea what just went wrong, but startx is a big fail. Perhaps it's due to the kernel update?

---

### Post by MonkeyPaw on 2012-04-13
I figured it out. I guess I didn't know I needed to uninstall the Catalyst drivers before running all those updates. I managed to use commands found in the AMD wiki to remove the drivers from the command line, reboot into 2D generic driver mode (which somehow worked?!), and then reinstall. I'm now back up and running again.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-04-13
have you tried nomodeset?
vga seems to with no flickering but it gets the resolution wrong when i use nomodeset on my 1080p tv
when i don't use nomodeset, if i put the mouse on the left side of the screen i get a strange darken effect across my screen in-line with the mouse cursor, i almost thought it was my screen till i tried nomodeset

DVI works wonders and you can use a dvi to hdmi adapter/cable you will just need a analog audio cable for sound
DVI+open source driver= wonderful (as in better than Catalyst wonderful)

using a a6-3500 on a GA-A55M-DS2 with 12.04
ram: 8gb ddr3 1600

---

### Post by MonkeyPaw on 2012-04-14
My monitor is VGA only, and my DVI-VGA adapter doesn't fit the motherboard. I guess they are different DVI types.

At any rate, I'm not sure why I was able to boot into default VESA mode with no AMD drivers installed. Up until then, the only way to get to desktop was in 11.04, or to use my 8800GTS. I think part of it might be because the newer kernels have better support for Llano. Either way, I'll take it. Machine seems quite snappy, and I don't have any artifacting or sluggishness in the GUI.

---

