---
title: "laptop keyboard problem"
date: 2008-10-29
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by rizzo0917 on 2008-10-29
Hi, I didn't know if I needed to post this in a separate forum, i'm using kubuntu 8.04 (kde 4 remix), and I have noticed something very odd, in order for me to type a ' or a " i need to press the key and then press space. At first I thought it was just in kate, but then I realized it was system wide. I went to the kd system settings and regional settings to check the keyboard layout and keyboard layout was disabled, I enabled it, set it to us, and change to a few different keyboards, but no dice.

Below is my xorg.conf, it may be linked to that, however I have yet to test what happens in single-user mode. Thanks in advance.


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
	Option	    "XkbVariant" "intl"
	Option	    "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "EnableMonitor" "lvds"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

---

### Post by rizzo0917 on 2008-10-29
I feel like an ***, after i posted this thread, i looked over my xorg conf, and commented out this line

#	Option	    "XkbVariant" "intl", restarted x and it was fine, i feel stupid now!

---

