---
title: "9.10 Netbook remix on HP 2133"
date: 2010-03-17
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by Edino on 2010-03-17
Hi All,
 
New on this forum here. I have just loaded 9.10 netbook remix on my HP2133 with 2GB memeory and 120gb HDD. The desk top is really sloooowwww.... ;-) Every selection takes about 5-8 seconds. Its just installed from the CD, so I made no changes at all. Anyone has any experince on what I can do to fix this speed problem?
 
Thanks!!!

---

### Post by Edino on 2010-03-18
Seems my problem must be very unique :-), because no replies at all :-(

I read many posts on this forum here with the same complain, but never a closing answer. So let me do the others that have the same problem a favor.... 

Netbook remix does not work well on an HP MINI 2133 (very slow desktop menu)... BUT the desktop version of Ubuntu 9.10 works very well (problem gone, and very stable)... 

I guess it has to do with the fact that the mini 2133 does not use an Atom CPU, and most other Netbooks do...

---

### Post by Uli_of on 2010-03-18
> **Edino said:**
> Seems my problem must be very unique :-), because no replies at all :-(
 
I read many posts on this forum here with the same complain, but never a closing answer. So let me do the others that have the same problem a favor.... 
 
Netbook remix does not work well on an HP MINI 2133 (very slow desktop menu)... BUT the desktop version of Ubuntu 9.10 works very well (problem gone, and very stable)... 
 
I guess it has to do with the fact that the mini 2133 does not use an Atom CPU, and most other Netbooks do...
 
Have you tried the openchrome,via or unichrome driver ? 
In the Samsung NC20 thread is something about this drivers.

---

### Post by Artemis3 on 2010-04-07
I just installed UNR 10.4 beta1 on this machine and the desktop runs pretty fast.

---

### Post by nvarras7 on 2010-04-10
Hi i tried 9.10 Nbr on my 2133 and the interface was very slow, 10-15 seconds for a response.  I have the 2133 as originally bought, with 1 gig ram. With Xp.  I was doing this as a last ditch effort before I bought a new netbook or maybe tablet.  It was still unusable. Even slower than Xp.

 As an experiment I installed the regular desktop edition and it was night and day.  It flies. I then tried Ubuntu 10.04 beta 2 and it is even better.  I actually prefer the desktop edition, but why is the Remix so slow,  I would have thought it would be a lighter edition.
    Anyway this experiment saved me some cash, because the 2133 is very quick with 10.04 beta2.  

P.s.  with Xp my 2133 would freeze after 1 hour or so and need a reboot.  So far no freezing with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by andrew5368 on 2010-04-11
High CPU usage in UNR happened to me, switch to desktop mode and everything will work .. it's just it will appear the same as ubuntu non-unr

---

### Post by sumeet_sageer on 2010-06-22
Hi,

I just did a fresh install of UNR 10.04 and the menu runs fine now. So far I am seeing no problems. Still doing checkup. Looks like they have done a good job with 10.04

---

