---
title: "10.04 Netbook Remix Issue on Gateway LT3103u"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-05-10
I have a video issue in 10.04 Netbook Remix that I didn't have on NR 9.10. The issue is when I go to some website the video goes nuts & I have to reboot. 1 of the site was Adobe & another one I just found was [http://ve3d.ign.com/?fromint=1](http://ve3d.ign.com/?fromint=1) I do not have this issue on Ubuntu 10.04 x64 on the same Netbook though.

I do have flash installed & videos play fine.

Edit: I forgot to mention that when the video goes nuts, I have to shut down & then reboot to fix the issue.

---

### Post by Push0r on 2010-05-16
I have the exact same problem. Looking forward to any possible solutions.

---

### Post by spaceballl on 2010-05-17
has this been fixed?

---

### Post by VeeDubb on 2010-05-17
pushOr & spaceball, are you guys also using gateway netbooks?

I know that this is most certainly not an issue with the ION graphics in the Asus 1201n, and I haven't heard much about this issue.  What that means, is that it's not an inherent problem with UNR, but a compatibility problem with your particular hardware.

The more you can list in terms of exactly what netbook model you're using, the easier it will be for somebody to figure out what the problem is.

---

### Post by ELoXL on 2010-05-29
First of all Push0r & Spaceballl is a pretty unique duo of words ............. I actuall dig it.

Anyways back to the matter at hand.  I just happen to come across this post by accident just googling "10.04 Gateway LT3103u" and this was the first result brought to my attention.

I am currently running the desktop version of 10.04 on Gateway LT3103u netbook; Which I just installed no more than seven hours ago±t.  As some of you know the specs already to this machine its a AMD Athlon 64, ATI Ra\deon Graphics card, and the standard 2gigs of ram it came with.  

I was curious to see if I would experience the same issues by dabbling onto "Adobe.com" and sure enough the screan went ape **** on me.  I attempted another flash based site and the scrambling, which is what I call it, didn't occure so much if the site was not overly flash intensive.  Regardless Flash  is not your friend this time around, but hey did this OS just turn a month old?  

I would like to see a speedy recovery in this as well, but I highly recommend that everyone make an attempt to send a bug report for those expieriencing such an issue.  I recommend utilizing Launchpad and if you dont have one create an account to help get such issues like this out there to the communities attention and to help get our damn Gateways back on par!  Its bloody impossible to send the damn thing in though when you're screen looks like it just got shattered, and for whatever reason I find it better for me to send reports when I'm currently in the **** to better reference the situation.  

I know I didn't speak so much on a solution, but I'm here to raise my hand as well to speak up about the solution.

---

### Post by spaceballl on 2010-06-01
My brother has this netbook, and he's running a slightly older version of Linux Mint on it. I'd like to just give him 10.04, but I'm not going to upgrade him until this issue has been resolved. Bummer!!

---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-06-12
Seems the issue is still there when using FF. Try Google Chrome & it doesn't happen (least not for me). 

Anyone have an idea why that would be?

---

### Post by ELoXL on 2010-06-12
> **PinchedNerve said:**
> Seems the issue is still there when using FF. Try Google Chrome & it doesn't happen (least not for me). 

Anyone have an idea why that would be?


I believe that would be a fair observation to make and I'll give it a go myself for awhile and see what the story is myself.  Honestly, I was suspect for awhile about my tweetdeck and how it utilizes Adobe Air.  I know I had to uninstall and reinstall Air at one time, but I'll follow the path of Chrome and let you know my results later as well.

---

### Post by ELoXL on 2010-07-06
As I stated I would give it some time and just as this post hasn't been updated in awhile so has my situation with the screen issue.

I will admit that I utilize google chrome now and I notice that I do not get too much of an issue.  I've also stumbled upon that if I keep windows maximized thats when everything goes to crap as far as the display goes.  If I keep any window to a size less than maximized it doesn't occur as often.  I cannot have my tweetdeck and a browser open at the same time.  The screen gets worse when I open Thunderbird with tweet deck alongside Chrome/Firefox.  

This appears to be a no win situation and I hope the good folks at Ubuntu are hearing our cries for a fix to out Gateway LT line of netbooks.

---

### Post by spaceballl on 2010-07-22
Up until a couple days ago, I have not been using my netbook much. I was waiting to update it with a special BIOS that will support power management. The BIOS has been updated, and I put a fresh install of Linux Mint on it (which is based on Ubuntu 10.04). I am getting the issue a lot. It's really obnoxious...

Any word on a fix? I'm going to download OpenSuse 11.3 now to see if I can replicate the issue. I'm guessing it's based on drivers... so... maybe it will be the same over there? Hoping not! Would be great to get this fix pushed out asap...

---

### Post by ELoXL on 2010-07-25
> **bluelamp999 said:**
> I'm no expert so treat the following with caution...

I had my display(s) go bananas similarly and I'm using an old-skool ATI card.

What worked for me was adding the line  ```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="nomodeset"
``` to this file  ```
/etc/default/grub
```YMMV

Edit: you must run ```
sudo update grub
``` after editing your grub file

> **brumorino said:**
> Wowwwwww this solve my problem in my gateway Lt31!
First time I tryed to do this, but my ubuntu didn't have the  /etc/default/grub file! I don' t know why, maybe because i upgrade from  9.10 and something going wrong.
I reinstall today 10.04, and add the line  ```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="nomodeset"
```, to the file that now i have  (uhull) and solve my problem. Thank' s mann!!
Hugs from Brazil!
:grin:

The fix is here!  It works and I'm using the desktop version of 10.04 on my Gateway LT 31xx!!!!!

---

### Post by spaceballl on 2010-07-26
doesn't this just revert to older drivers? I have to think there would be a bit of a performance degradation.

---

### Post by spaceballl on 2010-07-26
FWIW,

Could this be a GNOME issue? I was having the same issue with the newest version of Linux Mint (based on Ubuntu), but I recently switched to XFCE... and now the issue is gone! Any ideas?

---

### Post by ELoXL on 2010-07-26
> **spaceballl said:**
> doesn't this just revert to older drivers? I have to think there would be a bit of a performance degradation.
I performed the latest kernal upgrade, 2.6.32-24-generic, which I hope would be of some help and maybe a fix would be in it, but no such luck.  

I then performed the line insert and everything has been smooth sailing for the past three days.  I really do not see performance degrading at all.  I reckon the ultimate test was when I maximized all of my windows in each of my desktop spaces and directed both of my browsers, Chrome/Firefox, to Adobe.com .  Everything appeared streamline with no hickups at all.  I was quite satisfied and am functioning just fine.  The one thing I will say, thats not really a biggie for me, is that the initial purple screen with just "Ubuntu" showing is way out of proportion.  The screen is only up for no more than 2 seconds anyways.  That has to be the only con to implementing that line in the GRUB folder. If you're looking for a quick solution I recommend it.

---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-08-02
> **ELoXL said:**
> The fix is here!  It works and I'm using the desktop version of 10.04 on my Gateway LT 31xx!!!!!

How do you edit the file? newbie here & it says I do not have permission to edit this file.


Edit: Figured out how to edit the file. Not sure if the update Grub code is correct, its telling me its unknown. I used  > sudo update-grub & that did something , however, my screen still freaks out. Testing it on the Adobe & Voodoo Extreme sites.

---

### Post by ELoXL on 2010-08-03
Have you typed the following in order to access the file:

sudo gedit /etc/default/grub

Obviously it will ask for your password and you should be able to proceed from there..........you do not want to perform sudo-update grub until you've actually edit the file.

To check if you're admin go to System > Admin > Users and Groups - from there you should be able to see if you are Admin.  I will also take the time, while you're there, to select "Advance Settings" and tick off all User Privileges that are available to you - just to make sure of course you have every right in the book to do whatever you want to do within Ubuntu.  Let me know what your results are.

---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-08-04
> **ELoXL said:**
> Have you typed the following in order to access the file:

sudo gedit /etc/default/grub

Obviously it will ask for your password and you should be able to proceed from there..........you do not want to perform sudo-update grub until you've actually edit the file.

To check if you're admin go to System > Admin > Users and Groups - from there you should be able to see if you are Admin.  I will also take the time, while you're there, to select "Advance Settings" and tick off all User Privileges that are available to you - just to make sure of course you have every right in the book to do whatever you want to do within Ubuntu.  Let me know what your results are.

Made a couple changes with the advanced settings & made sure I was listed as the admin. Tested the 2 sites I mentioned before & the screen didn't freak out. Finally!!!

---

### Post by ELoXL on 2010-08-04
Outstanding - glad you got your issue remedied as well!

---

### Post by Keeper of a Bandersnatch on 2011-06-23
First of all, many thanks to ELoXL, Pinched Nerve, and anyone else who has contributed to the discovery of this fix.  I have had a Gateway LT3103u for a while now, and while it's a nice little netbook (sturdy, nice screen, comfy keyboard), with Windows it was unbearably slow.  So I switched to Linux. It then ran much faster, but the graphics would mess up. I tried different versions of Linux, and either the graphics would mess up, or wifi would not work.  I have been reading forums and trying all sorts of stuff to straighten this out, from backports modules to alternative drivers.  Finally, I re-upgraded to Linux 10.04 LTS and performed what was discussed above.  Everything works! Now it seems as though I have a fully functional (and fast!) tiny laptop.  However, I, as I know many others are, am a linux newbie, and not having actual step-by-step instructions has given me many headaches so I wanted to repost the fix in a newbie-friendly format.
1.  Go to Applications => Accessories => Terminal
2.  Type:  "sudo gedit /etc/default/grub" (without quotation marks) and push enter (pay attention to the space following "gedit").  It will ask you for your password. type that in and push enter.
3.  Into the window that opens up, copy and paste:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="nomodeset"
4.  Save the file and in the terminal window type:  "sudo update-grub" (without quotation marks) and push enter.you should see some words scrolling through the terminal followed by the word "done."  Once you see that, exit the terminal and enjoy your now functional Gateway LT3103u.[FONT=monospace][/FONT]

---

### Post by Keeper of a Bandersnatch on 2011-06-27
Update:
While the above fix definitely drastically improved the usability of my 3103u, after extensive use, I did still run into some graphics issues on content-heavy websites, especially ones that had little pop-out images.  I have been a dedicated Firefox user for some time now.  However, I have since then switched to using the Chromium web browser and have yet to run into any problems, even when visiting the websites that gave firefox a hard time.

---

