---
title: "12.04 Touchpad not working Asus g51vx-A1"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pgrim91 on 2012-04-27
Hello,

Since upgrading to 12.04 today the touchpad on my asus G51vx has stoped working (sits on the screen, wont move or click).

I've tried updating my synaptics driver but it is up to date.  Also I tried using the hotkey to enable/disable the touchpad, but it didnt work either.  I even checked the BIOS and the touchpad was enabled there so I'm not sure what to do next.  It was just working a few hours ago . . .

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-04-27
Of course you've checked the gpointing-device-settings, AKA "Mouse and Touchpad" under system settings, and confirmed that it's on there?
Try running

```
synclient TouchpadOff=0
```

in a terminal, and see if it works after that.

---

### Post by pgrim91 on 2012-04-28
When I run synclient TouchpadOff=0 it says Couldn't find synaptics properties.  No synaptics driver installed?

But im certain I ran sudo apt-get install [something] to install the driver.

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-04-28
> **pgrim91 said:**
> When I run synclient TouchpadOff=0 it says Couldn't find synaptics properties.  No synaptics driver installed?

But im certain I ran sudo apt-get install [something] to install the driver.

Hm, let's just confirm that the proper Synaptics driver is loaded. Run

```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics
```

To see if it's already installed and up-to-date.

---

### Post by pgrim91 on 2012-04-28
It gave me this:

Reading Package lists. . . Done
Duilding dependency tree
Reading state information. . . Done
xserver-xorg-input-synaptics is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

---

### Post by pgrim91 on 2012-04-28
What would cause an installed synaptics driver not to be functioning correctly?

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-04-28
That's strange. You could reinstall the driver. Otherwise, I'm thinking it's probably the upgrade that made things go wrong. Upgrades can frequently do this.
If you reinstall it, and synclient still doesn't work, a fresh installation may be your best option, unless someone with more knowledge has a better idea.

---

### Post by pgrim91 on 2012-04-29
okay, so if I want to uninstall it first and the  install it again I would use something in terminal like

sudo apt-get remove xserver-xorg-input-synaptics

Or should I just do it from synaptic package manager?

EDIT: I did it through terminal and synclient still wont cooperate.  So if a fresh installation is a sure fix for this issue, and this is kind of a noob question, are there any utilities that allow me to save my programs, or are there any services that will help me download all of them again once I reinstall Ubuntu?

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-04-29
Unfortunate that the reinstallation didn't work.
Google will tell you ways to make lists of installed programs, and [here's]("http://superuser.com/questions/6338/how-do-you-track-which-packages-were-installed-on-ubuntu-linux") a link to get you started!

---

### Post by cj6814 on 2012-05-03
pgrim91, 

I've got the same issue on an Asus A52F.  I really don't want to do a fresh install.  Have you and did it solve your problem?

Thanks,

---

### Post by pgrim91 on 2012-05-08
I'm going to do a fresh install today after I find some way to document the packages I installed.  Even after updating the touchpad doesn't work, luckily ASUS sent me a free mouse along with my computer when it was new so i've been getting by :)

When I get around to doing the fresh install I'll let you know if it solves the problem.  Just curious though, what model touchpad are you using?

EDIT: I just reinstalled 12.04 from a flash drive (completely wiping my previous installation) and the touchpad works flawlessly.  I'm not sure what "broke" during the update but if you're having issues a clean install might be the route to go.  Thanks to all for the advice.

---

### Post by Antiverminseed on 2012-08-28
I have this same problem. However, a fresh install did not fix it. Neither did reinstalling the driver in synaptic. I got the same output as previous poster when i checked gpointing-device-settings. 

Suggestions, anyone?

EDIT: I'll just make a new thread since this is marked as solved.

---

### Post by Antiverminseed on 2012-08-28
And i'm not running 10.10 as it says on my profile. For some reason I can't change it. I'm running 12.04 LTE.

---

### Post by dhizzy13 on 2012-08-29
I have the same issue as you did but I dont want to reinstall the os. Could someone point me to the proper drivers to reinstall? Thanks

---

### Post by omunozsj on 2012-08-30
I have a Gateway NE46R06m and it doesn't work either. When I type "synclient TouchpadOff=0" it does not return any answer and Touchpad still doesn't work.

I made a 12.04 fresh new install from "Factory State with Windows Starter", erasing the hdd.

---

### Post by dnv2006 on 2012-09-02
My notification is: 

root@DNV-PC:/home/dnv# ***apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics***
E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?

Please help me, thank you!

---

### Post by dnv2006 on 2012-09-02
Thank guys,
I have solved my Touchpad problems on Acer Aspire 4738 corei5

                          ```

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics
synclient TouchpadOff=0
sudo chmod +wrx '/var/lib/dpkg/lock' 
sudo apt-get install synaptic
 
```

---

### Post by Teemperor on 2012-09-20
> **dnv2006 said:**
> 
                          ```

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics
synclient TouchpadOff=0
sudo chmod +wrx '/var/lib/dpkg/lock' 
sudo apt-get install synaptic
 
```

The last two steps installs on a weird way the "synaptic"-manager which is unrelated to the synaptic drivers problem, so just try the first steps.

---

