---
title: "T430 12.04 randomy crashes"
date: 2012-07-20
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by emeraldMaster on 2012-07-20
Hi all! I need help :)

I installed ubuntu 12.04 on my Lenovo T430 laptop and everything works good at first look. But the system randomly crashes and only hard reset returns it to work. 

The graphics looks good, i have no issues with it (1920x1200)

I can't figure out how to solve this problem :(

---

### Post by clin77 on 2012-07-23
Have the same issue here! [ubuntu 12.04 on lenovo T430]
It randomly crashes, making it difficult to identify if some specific software is responsible for it. 

Two clues which might help identify the source:
(1) the file manager I use is "konqueror": this is the software I always open while crashing.
(2) I installed a widget called "weather indicator", but this software crashes in roughly 30 minutes.

thank you in advance for any comments!

---

### Post by EGA on 2012-07-23
There are many people having the same issue. Ivy Bridge isn't officially supported in kernel 3.2, hence an upgrade to 3.4 might help!

---

### Post by clin77 on 2012-07-23
> **EGA said:**
> There are many people having the same issue. Ivy Bridge isn't officially supported in kernel 3.2, hence an upgrade to 3.4 might help!

Thank you. Indeed I upgraded the kernel to 3.5 and it works well so far [8 hours without crash]. The upgrading is not painful, so worth trying!

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=traegZveTKo](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=traegZveTKo)

---

### Post by jonblund on 2012-07-23
> **EGA said:**
> There are many people having the same issue. Ivy Bridge isn't officially supported in kernel 3.2, hence an upgrade to 3.4 might help!

From the bug reports it must bee thousands of users. Think Ubuntu could bee more helpful here.
I tried the bug #999910 advice: upgrade to 3.2.0-27-generic #43-Ubuntu:

[LIST]
[*]open update manager
[*]click settings
[*]check *pre-realesed updates*
[*]click check button in update manager
[*]install updates
[*]reboot
[/LIST]
24 hour later, no freeze so far.

If there is a bug in 3.2 kernel that affects all  ivy bridge systems, it seems proper with an official recommended solution. 
What about all pre-installed systems?

---

### Post by azangru on 2012-07-23
For those with T430 at their disposal, can I threadjack a little (:)) and ask the same questions I asked in the parallel thread:
- one user [[COLOR="Blue"]_reported_[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12116184&postcount=1182") that the mini display port on the T430 doesn't work properly out of the box: can any of you check whether it is still true after the updates?
- another user reported random pulseaudio crashes on T430 with Ubuntu 12.04. I can't find the exact post at the moment, but I remember I've seen it somewhere here. Could you please tell of your experience with audio on this machine?

Thanks and sorry for being slightly off-topic.

---

### Post by azangru on 2012-07-23
> **jonblund said:**
> upgrade to 3.2.0-27-generic

Today my update manager offered to update the kernel to 3.2.0-27. I believe, now the users will get this kernel version automatically.

---

### Post by twipley on 2012-07-23
> **azangru said:**
> For those with T430 at their disposal, can I threadjack a little and ask the same questions I asked in the parallel thread:
- one user [[COLOR="Blue"]_reported_[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12116184&postcount=1182") that the mini display port on the T430 doesn't work properly out of the box: can any of you check whether it is still true after the updates?
- another user reported random pulseaudio crashes on T430 with Ubuntu 12.04. I can't find the exact post at the moment, but I remember I've seen it somewhere here. Could you please tell of your experience with audio on this machine?

Thanks and sorry for being slightly off-topic.
Nice questions. Those were on my mind to begin with... Also, for the testers, please remember to use a cable that supports the audio for testing, as I have heard of video-only cables such as some DP-to-HDMI converters.

For the OP, upgrading to quantal-alpha-3 did the job over here -- as it comes bundled with a bleeding-edge Linux kernel. Quite stable too, if you would be asking me. Fan speed seems normal too without having had to install any extraneous software. 100% Ubuntu-native software, 100% open-source over here (Intel GPU and Wireless devices used, though).

---

### Post by emeraldMaster on 2012-07-24
just updated my kernel to 3.4, hope it helps.. )

---

### Post by twipley on 2012-07-26
I must also note that under 12.10 alpha 2, sometimes resume fails -- it freezes -- after the lid has been closed, even if "suspend" has been disabled on lid close in the power settings.

Not sure if the issue is specific to ThinkPads, though, or if it affects a wide range of laptops. I am not caring much, though, as the "restore previous session" feature of Firefox is really handy, and as I am running an alpha release.

EDIT: I think I have fixed it by disabling the automatic-screen-lock feature altogether -- before doing so, it would still lock the screen on lid close, for it to be noted.

---

### Post by essair on 2012-08-19
Tell me please. Is the problem with crashing completely solved now?

---

### Post by twipley on 2012-08-22
> **essair said:**
> Tell me please. Is the problem with crashing completely solved now?

I am running 12.10 (quantal), and have both screen-lock and standby features disabled, and I cannot remember the last time I have suffered from a crash.

Specs: Intel Wireless, and integrated graphics.

Only annoyances:

- colord apport annoyances (will be fixed I guess);

- [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2014269](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2014269)
-- I have done nothing to fix that one, and I do not even know if I am suffering from that one. (No video games played over here).

---

### Post by twipley on 2012-08-24
Sorry for the double post.

So yes, it is safe to upgrade to quantal; no crashes at all for me there.

Just be warned not to perform "partial upgrades" which are often prompted: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859240](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859240)

I would wait (2 weeks) for the beta just for the sake of it. If I were you.

---

### Post by twipley on 2012-08-25
For another point to be brought in: quantal being in its alpha stage, it might be more-appropriated for one to move in to 12.04.1 instead, which seems to be quite compatible with Intel-graphics and -wireless T430s.

---

### Post by twipley on 2012-09-14
Just an update: 12.04.1, which features the "old" Kernel, is not compatible with T430s it seems, as there are quite-frequent crashes.

For better experience, download one of the current daily builds, or even better start from beta 2 (two weeks from now on) or from stable (just before Halloween).

I have been using such for 10 hours, and have yet to witness any colord crash, nor freezes. Everything has been left to default settings, even lock-screen and automatic-suspend features.

quantal rocks. :guitar:

---

### Post by instantmove on 2013-01-08
I've made tons of experiments with Ubuntu on T430 and only the following helped: go to BIOS and disable "CPU Power Management".
More described here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2102787]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2102787")

---

### Post by zatix on 2013-01-09
Hello There,

I've got a Lenovo T430 on Debian testing, and I am experimenting the same freezing issues. I am not even able to execute sysReqs after the crash..

 I just upgraded my kernel to 3.7 and it didn't crash so far (2 days). I'll try to disable "CPU Power Management" in the BIOS if I reproduce the issue again.

---

### Post by mikearagua on 2013-01-18
I disabled the cpu power management on my T430 and it still seems to be hanging periodically but i'm on 3.2 still --

uname -a
Linux beorn 3.2.0-36-generic #57-Ubuntu SMP Tue Jan 8 21:44:52 UTC 2013 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

I'm going to try a kernel upgrade now.

---

### Post by blackmirror on 2013-01-29
I experienced the same problem with Ubuntu and my Lenovo T430

After several tests the only solution is to update to Kernel 3.7. I have tried all the alternative solutions posted here (specially had great expectations on the CPU Power Management issue)  with no result. 

Updating the kernel is the solutiob  that seems to work (after 90 hours of uptime the problem did not reproduce)

---

