---
title: "HP DV-6 3043-tx"
date: 2011-09-19
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by monarch12 on 2011-09-19
Hi,
I bought a HP DV6 3043TX an year ago. I very recently installed ubuntu 10.10 32 bit on it. So I'm a newbie at this stuff. In windows, there is a functionality called the Switchable graphics using which I could switch between HD 5650 and Intel HD. After I installed ubuntu, additional drivers for ATI were asked for, which I clicked activate in the additional drivers menu. The computer wouldnt boot at all into the gnome-desktop at all after that. So I removed the X11 configuration files and restarted it and it worked well. 

Now when I try to the Visual effects in the appearance menu to Normal or high, it is reverting to none. I've installed Compiz hoping that it would help, but it didnt.  What should I do to get these right and fixed?Can you please help me out in these two regards?

Thanks

---

### Post by .... on 2011-09-20
You cannot run the ATI proprietary driver with hybrid graphics unless both cards are ATI/AMD (even then, support is experimental). It sucks that Ubuntu's "jockey" driver  utility keeps tricking n00bs into messing up their graphics. Just deleting xorg.conf doesn't completely remove fglrx/Catalyst, so do these 6 commands: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx)
You should then be able to use the intel GPU normally. If you're interested in using the ATI GPU, you'll have to play with vgaswitcheroo.

---

### Post by monarch12 on 2011-09-20
> **.... said:**
> You cannot run the ATI proprietary driver with hybrid graphics unless both cards are ATI/AMD (even then, support is experimental). It sucks that Ubuntu's "jockey" driver  utility keeps tricking n00bs into messing up their graphics. Just deleting xorg.conf doesn't completely remove fglrx/Catalyst, so do these 6 commands: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx)
You should then be able to use the intel GPU normally. If you're interested in using the ATI GPU, you'll have to play with vgaswitcheroo.


I tried doing what the link said and did it. But it hasnt fixed the issue with the appearance settings. Can you help me out with that?

Thank you

---

