---
title: "16.04 won't shutdown on MSI laptop"
date: 2016-05-27
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by vagaerg on 2016-05-27
On an MSI GS60 2QE (Ghost Pro) every time I try to power off the laptop, it just freezes.
I disabled the quiet splash on grub config so I could see what was going on and it gets to "Reached target Final Step. Starting Power-Off... reboot: Power down" and then freezes completely (please see the attached)
I have tried the Alt + Sys Rq combination and nothing happens either.

I have tried the following configurations:


[LIST]
[*]acpi=off --> won't even boot 
[*]noapic --> **fixes the issue**, but keyboard doesn't work at all 
[*]nolapic --> no difference 
[*]apm=power_off --> no difference 
[*]reboot=bios,force,efi,warm, etc...
[*]irqpoll --> no difference
[*]acpi=force --> no difference
[*]xhci quirks on grub config didn't help either 
[/LIST]

I have also tried to do a swapoff before shutting down, to no avail.

Strangely enough, [B]reboot works just fine

[/B]I have tried on Kernel 4.4.0-22-generic and 4.4.0-21-generic, no difference here. On a fresh USB-booted install the issue is also present so I believe it has nothing to do with installed software.

Happens with the Nvidia driver and with Nouveau as well (it even happens on a fresh install as I mentioned).

Any help is very appreciated :)

---

### Post by rammar on 2016-05-27
I have the same problem on Clevo P640RE when I use Intel Graphics Card instead Nvidia GTX 970M, but shutdown and reboot doesn't working. I resolved installing the latest mainline kernel ([v4.6-yakkety]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v4.6-yakkety/")).

---

### Post by vagaerg on 2016-05-27
Thank you very much for your help. In my case it happens regardless of what card I am using, but reboot always works fine.

EDIT: Just tried to install 4.6 and it didn't fix the issue. Either with or without the Nvidia driver
I read somewhere that using a mainline kernel can bring many issues, since it hasn't been modified for ubuntu yet. Is everything working fine for you?

Thank you!

---

