---
title: "Ubuntu 11.04 dual head problems"
date: 2011-05-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by balor123 on 2011-05-06
Hi,
I just installed Ubuntu 11.04 on an older Dell Precision machine containing an Nvidia Quadro NV18 (NVS280) and am having trouble. I have two 24" monitors connected to it that I would like to set up in Xinerama mode. After install the machine boots up fine but with monitors setup to clone each other. When I uncheck the mirror option in the display setting, one monitor becomes garbled and the other roughly freezes (mouse moves but OS is unresponsive). I am using the stock Nouveau driver. I tried the NV driver but it is only able to see 1 monitor. I had the dual monitor setup working with Ubuntu 10 but using the Nvidia driver (this card only supported under 96 version). I tried installing this driver from the Ubuntu Software Center but it complains that the GLX module is missing. I tried from Synaptics module manager and it complains there are dependency problems. I tried downloading the driver directly from Nvidia but ran into problems there as well. After ignoring the warning about Ubuntu and installing anyway, the driver fails to load during bootup resulting in a blank screen. I tried editing the xorg.con file directly as well but haven't had any luck. How should I proceed?

---

### Post by nathema on 2011-05-07
I'm able to run Xinerama with the xorg.conf generated by Nvidia X server settings tool, tho [without Unity 3d]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1750174").

---

