---
title: "Modify xorg.conf to output to VGA port by default on laptop"
date: 2009-05-12
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by the8thstar on 2009-05-12
Hello,

I want to use a big screen and connect it to my laptop through the VGA port. What I want to do is :

1. auto output to the big screen
2. NOT use the laptop screen (ie. turn off the laptop screen by default)

Additional question: since I have an Intel 945GM graphic card, will the desktop effects work with another monitor?

Thanks for your help!

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by the8thstar on 2009-05-13
Bump

---

### Post by the8thstar on 2009-05-13
Help?

---

