---
title: "Surround Sound Problems"
date: 2008-05-25
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by mtreece on 2008-05-25
Hi,
(Forgive me for how long this post is; I've tried to condense it as much as possible without leaving out too much information)

I've recently purchased an Altec Lansing vs3251 Surround Sound System for my Toshiba Laptop.  It being a laptop, and thus lacking several features a Desktop has, I was forced to also purchase an external sound card capable of 5.1 surround sound, which I chose the Zalman ZM-RSSC External USB 5.1 Sound Card.  I then, after physically setting the equipment up, booted into Windows XP to configure it to work there first (mainly out of habit).  I was capable of getting it to work fine in XP, and it tested well with a surround-sound movie.  I then rebooted into Ubuntu (8.04) to test its capability with linux.  I switched the sound-preferences ( [http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-SoundPreferences.png](http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-SoundPreferences.png) ) to model "USB Audio" (the external sound card), and I've rebooted several times, but I'm still incapable of getting the intended operation out of my speakers.  In the sound-preferences, when I "Test" the audio, I hear sound from the front left and right speakers, but no other (which I figured was typical), so I know that Ubuntu can recognize, or at least output, sound to my external sound card's front left and right speakers; however, any other system-process involving sound is always routed to my laptop's built-in speakers (such as logging-in).  Also, when I go to play a movie using Totem, the movie player will successfully route sound to my front left and right speakers, but it will fail to utilize the rest of the speakers (the rear, center, or subwoofer), despite configuring the preferences to allow 5.1.  

-Update: after confirming it won't utilize the rest of the speakers, I've discovered that it seems to be routing/duplicating the front left/right audio through the subwoofer!?  I even removed the wired-connection to the rear and subwoofer (from the external sound card) and left only the "front" connection in tact, and the same scenario occurred: sound was coming from my left and right front-speakers, while the same output was forced through the subwoofer.  At this point in time, I'm afraid I'm totally lost: the front and rear and C/SW speaker-connections all connect to the base (the subwoofer), but even still, that shouldn't mean the subwoofer is accessed if its connection is broken from the sound card?  And even still, it's outputting the same audio that is from the front-speakers (I tried this by monitoring vibrations from the subwoofer as I observed conversation from movies).  And still, the rear speakers (as well as center speaker) have yet to work.

I've also tried using VLC to play movies, where once again I've configured this program to utilize the USB Audio.  It fails to output to the external soundcard altogether (as I can see a light blink on the device when it is being accessed), and instead redirects all sound to my built-in laptop speakers.  I've also tried the "Default" instead of the USB Audio to see if that helps, and I cannot discern a difference.

Also, when I connect the USB sound card to the laptop, the default ubuntu login-sound is played, supposedly letting me know the device is connected properly(?), but even afterwards, the same problems as I've described above occur, leaving me to believe that perhaps this is either a driver conflict or a configuration conflict, or both.

I've found other posts where people recommend creating some sort of ".asoundrc" file, and I have tried this, yet when I do that, the external sound card is not accessible even by the "Test" in the sound-preferences.  Also, I read this method, the ".asoundrc" only allows for a pseudo surround sound by duplicating the audio through all speakers?  In any event, I'm looking for true surround sound out of my movies that I play in linux.

For assistance, I've installed a program "sysinfo" and pasted its output here:
(Also, I have some screenshots following this output)
--------------------------------------------------
System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 5/25/2008 1:40:53 PM
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 8.04 (hardy) release.
	GNOME: 2.22.1 (Ubuntu 2008-05-07)
	Kernel version: 2.6.24-16-generic (#1 SMP Thu Apr 10 13:23:42 UTC 2008)
	GCC: 4.2.3 (i486-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: unknown (15 April 2008  05:26:17PM)
	Hostname: trhome
	Uptime: 0 days 13 h 14 min

CPU INFORMATION
	GenuineIntel, Genuine Intel(R) CPU           T1350  @ 1.86GHz
	Number of CPUs: 1
	CPU clock currently at 1867.000 MHz with 2048 KB cache
	Numbering: family(6) model(14) stepping(8)
	Bogomips: 3728.25
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss tm pbe constant_tsc up arch_perfmon bts pni monitor est tm2 xtpr

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 1001 MB
	Total swap: 956 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  HTS541080G9SA00  
	SCSI device -  scsi1
		Vendor:  HL-DT-ST 
		Model:  DVDRAM GMA-4082N 
	SCSI device -  scsi2
		Vendor:  WDC      
		Model:  WD800BB-00DKA0   

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/PM/GMS, 943/940GML and 945GT Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
		Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Unknown device ff00
	PCI bridge(s)
		Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2) (prog-if 01 [Subtractive decode])
	USB controller(s)
		Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02) (prog-if 00 [UHCI])
		Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02) (prog-if 00 [UHCI])
		Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02) (prog-if 00 [UHCI])
		Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02) (prog-if 00 [UHCI])
		Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02) (prog-if 20 [EHCI])
	ISA bridge
		Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
		Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Unknown device ff00
	IDE interface
		Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA IDE Controller (rev 02) (prog-if 80 [Master])
		Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Unknown device ff00

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
		Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Unknown device ff00

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
		Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Unknown device ff00

NETWORK
	Network controller
		Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)
		Subsystem: Intel Corporation Unknown device 1040
	Ethernet controller
		Intel Corporation PRO/100 VM Network Connection (rev 02)
		Subsystem: Toshiba America Info Systems Unknown device ff00
--------------------------------------------------

For other assistance, I've posted some screenshots:
**System Sound-Preferences** ( [http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-SoundPreferences.png]("http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-SoundPreferences.png") )

**VLC-Preferences** ( [http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-VLCPreferences.png]("http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-VLCPreferences.png") )

**Totem-Preferences** ( [http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-TotemPreferences.png]("http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-TotemPreferences.png") )

I appreciate any assistance anyone can provide, and once again, sorry for the super-long post!

~Tyler R.

---

### Post by mtreece on 2008-05-25
> -Update: after confirming it won't utilize the rest of the speakers, I've discovered that it seems to be routing/duplicating the front left/right audio through the subwoofer!? I even removed the wired-connection to the rear and subwoofer (from the external sound card) and left only the "front" connection in tact, and the same scenario occurred: sound was coming from my left and right front-speakers, while the same output was forced through the subwoofer. At this point in time, I'm afraid I'm totally lost: the front and rear and C/SW speaker-connections all connect to the base (the subwoofer), but even still, that shouldn't mean the subwoofer is accessed if its connection is broken from the sound card? And even still, it's outputting the same audio that is from the front-speakers (I tried this by monitoring vibrations from the subwoofer as I observed conversation from movies). And still, the rear speakers (as well as center speaker) have yet to work.

Update to this update: apparently I accidentally had the system set to stereo when I found that the sound was duplicated to the subwoofer.  Apparently this is supposed to happen when the system is set to stereo?  I switched it back to surround, and now when I try Totem player, I only receive output from the left and right front speakers, and not the rear, center, or subwoofer, so I'm still stuck on the same issue.

---

### Post by mtreece on 2008-06-03
Can anyone help me out?

---

### Post by Ilias83 on 2008-06-03
Try from you Sound Control (Double Click on the speaker icon) to find which button control tha rear speaker volume, the front speaker volume and finally the central speaker volume.
For my Creative SoundBlaster Live 5.1 that worked.
The controls were wave (for the front speakers), wave central (for central speaker) and wave surround (for rear speakers)

---

### Post by mtreece on 2008-06-03
> Try from you Sound Control (Double Click on the speaker icon) to find which button control tha rear speaker volume, the front speaker volume and finally the central speaker volume.
For my Creative SoundBlaster Live 5.1 that worked.
The controls were wave (for the front speakers), wave central (for central speaker) and wave surround (for rear speakers) 

Hi,
Thank you for the reply, but I can't seem to do what you are suggesting; perhaps it is because we are using different sound cards?
Here is what I see when I go to the sound control:
1) I see where I can control the master volume
2) When I go to devices, I see this:
[http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-VolumeControlPlaybackALS.png](http://i276.photobucket.com/albums/kk31/mtreecenet/private/misc/Screenshot-VolumeControlPlaybackALS.png)

---

### Post by Ilias83 on 2008-06-04
Top devices, I thing tha you have to check USB Audio.
Then form Edit->Preferences you'll enable wave, wave rear, wave surround.
This link could possibly help you with any other problem
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449&highlight=comprehensive+sound+problem+solutions+guide](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449&highlight=comprehensive+sound+problem+solutions+guide)
I hope you'll fix the problem soon...

---

### Post by mtreece on 2008-06-05
Well, at this point I can say that I can receive audio through my front speakers, but not my rear nor center or subwoofer.  I suppose this is considered progress nonetheless :guitar: .

Any idea how to get surround sound to work properly for, say, surround-sound capable movies?  I heard a while back about editing the .asoundrc file (or something), but everytime I make one of those, my sound doesn't work at all :-(.

---

