---
title: "Ubuntu 9.04 has 6 screens."
date: 2009-10-06
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by T l2 O J A N on 2009-10-06
I install Ubuntu 9.04 in [Lenovo Y550]("http://www.laptopspec.net/2009/07/lenovo-ideapad-y550p8700/").

I downloaded the nVidia 185 drivers and install, Display has six screens.


Please give me some help.  :confused:


[IMG]http://img19.imageshack.us/img19/8746/1001195u.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by sandy8925 on 2009-10-06
Did you press the Windows + E keys ? There's a compiz effect that sort of has the same effect. But I'm not sure about whether this is because of that.

---

### Post by bruno9779 on 2009-10-06
The compiz function you are talking about is expo, and no, it does not look this bad.

I had better luck installing on Thinkpads with alternate install CD

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-10-06
Did you install the Nvidia driver from nvidia.com or with the restricted driver manager?

I would recomend you use the restricted driver manager. You will get an older driver, but one that is tested to work with Ubuntu.

To reset it open a terminal and run:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Reboot.

---

### Post by sandy8925 on 2009-10-06
The Nvidia drivers from the Nvidia website work fine. I'm using the latest and I haven't had any problems. You should do as wojox saids but then the drivers won't be in use and it will be slow. Better to run the followong command :
 
nvidia-xconfig

This will automatically configure your xorg.conf so that it will use the drivers. This will most probably fix your problem and work well. Infact you should run that command after installing the drivers.

---

### Post by T l2 O J A N on 2009-10-06
I use the nVidia 180 drivers have the same problem.

[IMG]http://img41.imageshack.us/img41/4618/screenshot3yb.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by AwesomeTux on 2009-10-06
It might be a resolution or refresh-rate problem.

Try pressing Ctrl+Alt++ or Ctrl+Alt+- (Control+Alt.+Plus (on number-pad))

Look at your /etc/xorg.conf file and configure the settings in there to what your monitor can handle.

Other than that I can't help any.

---

### Post by skjoldfetter on 2009-10-06
well, according to the link you have the GT 130M, which is the same one i have, and i have exactly the same problem :P


but according to the Nvidia site only the 190 BETA supports 130m, and i've downloaded that, but i cant get it installed as i dont know how to run the .run file as root =/ 

any suggestions to help us? :P

---

### Post by sandy8925 on 2009-10-07
To run something as root just prefix the command with sudo. 
e.g sudo reboot

You can install the driver from the Nvidia site by doing the following:

If you've enabled the restricted driver make sure you disable/deactivate it before doing the following.

1)  Press Ctrl + Alt + F1. This will open up a terminal. You have to login with your username and password.

2)  Then you have to stop Gnome by doing: sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
    If it asks you for your password enter it again.

3)  Then change to the folder where the installation file is stored and    
    run it by doing:
    
       sudo ./NVIDIA-180...............run  
       (NVIDIA-180.........run is the name of the install file - pressing 
        tab will help you there)

4)   The installer will start. If it asks you whether you want to download a kernel interface it's probably best to say no (never worked for me). If you choose not to it will then ask whether you want to compile a new kernel interface. Say yes. Then it starts installing. After it finishes it will ask whether you want to run nvidia-xconfig to configure xorg.conf . SAY YES. Installation complete. 

5) You can start gnome again by running:

    sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

So that's it installation complete and it should be working well.

---

### Post by skjoldfetter on 2009-10-08
well, i successfully installed the latest Nvidia driver (190.36)  (thanks sandy)

but unfortunately it did the exact same thing... so i guess the graphics card is just too new and not supported yet, and ill have to live with vista untill Nvidia release a better driver :(

thanks anyways ^-^

---

### Post by user002 on 2009-10-14
I have G105M, But this should works for you too.
cd /etc/X11/
sudo cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.bk 
   //Make a backup of xorg.conf
sudo gedit xorg.conf   
//Note, my res is 1366x768. Change it if you want.
And update your xorg.conf to this and save.:




# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "TouchPad"
    Driver "synaptics"
    Option "device" "/dev/input/event8"
#    Option "TapButton1" "0"
#    Option "TapButton2" "0"
    Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "False"
    Option "VertTwoFingerScroll" "True"
    Option "HorizTowFingerScroll" "True"
#    Option "TouchpadOff" "2"
    Option "SHMConfig" "False"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
#    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    InputDevice    "TouchPad" "CorePinter"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
    Option    "AIGLX"    "False"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#    # generated from default
#    Identifier     "Mouse0"
#    Driver         "mouse"
#    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
#    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
#    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
#    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
#EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "AUO"
#    HorizSync       30.0 - 100.0
#    VertRefresh     55.0 - 110.0
    DisplaySize    344 193
#    Mode    "1366x768"
#    DotClock    69.5MHz
#    HTimings    1366 1414 1446 1437
#    VTimings    768 771 775 806
#    EndMode
# Modeline "1366x768"   69.50  1366 1414 1446 1437  768 771 775 806
 Modeline "1366x768"   69.50  1366 1414 1446 1446  768 771 775 806 -hsync -vsync
# Modeline "1366x768q"   72.00  1366 1414 1446 1494  768 771 777 803 -hsync -vsync
#    Option "DPMS" "True"
EndSection

#Section "Device"
#    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
#    Driver         "nvidia"
#EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce G 105M"
    Option "NvAGP" "0"
#    Option "UseInt10Module" "True"
    Option "UseEDID" "False"
    Option "AllowSHMPixmaps" "True"
    Option "ExactModeTimingsDVI" "True"
    Option "ModeValidation" "NoHorizSyncCheck,NoDFPNativeResolutionCheck,NoExtendedGpuCapabilitiesCheck,NoWidthAlignmentCheck,NoVertRefreshCheck"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    SubSection     "Display"
    Modes    "1366x768"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by eugenio_vb on 2009-10-14
This problem can't be avoided only doing this:

1.- Create a Modeline for the desired resolution with cvt command

cvt 1366 768 50

That means a resolution of 1366x768@50

That will generate the following:

Modeline "1366x768" 69.50 1366 1414 1446 1446 768 771 775 806 -hsync -vsync

-Copy that and put it in Section "Monitor"
-Also add the modeline name to the Section "Sreen"

Section "Screen"
...
  Subsection "Display"
  ...
  Modes "1366x768"
  Depth 24
  ...

2) Add the following to Section "Device"

Option "ExactModeTimingsDVI" "True"

And that's all, no more 6 screens

---

