---
title: "11.04 wireless finally works, but wont start automatically"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by JoeOrozco on 2011-04-28
Spent the day installing 11.04. Broadcom STA drivers wouldn't work, but they did in 10.10, so I had to install b43 fwcutter and firmware-b43-installer. But when I startup or when I resume from supsend wireless is turned off. I can use fn + f2 to start it and it works, but I want it to start on its own.
Any help would be really appreciated.
Thanks.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-04-28
right click on network applet go to edit connections highlight the SSID that is yours click Edit
and check box that says connect automatically.

---

### Post by JoeOrozco on 2011-04-28
Connect Automatically is already checked. Its not the connection. When the wireless is turned on it connects automatically to my wireless, but I just have to turn on the wireless device with fn + f2 first. The wireless led is off after resume, so I turn it on and everything works. I just want it to be on automatically when I resume.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-04-29
```
sudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/config
```
And copy and paste or type:
SUSPEND_MODULES="b43"

Then hit save and restart your computer and see if that will make it wake after suspend.

---

### Post by JoeOrozco on 2011-04-29
Sorry, it didn't work. I tried to resume from suspend a couple times after restarting. I really appreciate your help though. Is there anything else to try?

---

### Post by InphekD on 2011-04-29
rfkill in rc.local?

---

### Post by JoeOrozco on 2011-04-29
So I added rfkill unblock wifi to my rc.local, and I thought it was fixed when my I restarted and my wifi was on! But when I closed the lid and went into suspend and came back wifi was turned off. This is progress, and again I am really grateful.
Thanks.

---

### Post by JoeOrozco on 2011-04-29
So I fixed it somehow. I went to boot into my windows partition and I got the same thing, no wifi on startup. So I thought it has to be the bios. I went into the bios, wireless WAS enabled on startup, so for kicks I changed the boot order so that Hard Drive was back on top, instead of CD-ROM. Don't know why this worked, if want to enlighten me that would be great otherwise thank both of you for your help. Will mark as solved.
Thanks.

---

