---
title: "13.04 open source video drivers high CPU at idle Radeon HD 7750"
date: 2013-08-24
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by pebuilder on 2013-08-24
Hi,

Replaced graphics card with Radeon HD 7750.  Set up to use default open source video drivers,

When running Unity the 8 cpu cores all run around 20-40% in idle and GPU gets up to 46C and cores rise in temp as well.  This does not happen when using the KDE Plasma desktop.  CPU cores sit around 0-5% in idle and GPU temp remains steady.

I was thinking maybe the open source drivers do not handle the HD 7750 too well and the 3D stuff was being software emulated hence the load.

So thought I would have a go at fglrx-updates via synaptic.

Once rebooted I noticed the Unity cpu core utilisation at idle was behaving as expected.

I use gkrellm with the sensors to monitor cpu core and gpu temp, but with the fglrx-updates install I lost the gpu temp display!

It seems that the fglrx-updates certainly reduces the cpu core load.  To confirm I completely removed fglrx-updates and rebooted.

Noted the high cpu core idle % rose up again as did the temps

So I think I will go back to fglrx-updates for Unity usage.

One question though, how do I get GPU temp via the fglrx-updates drivers?

Is there some other way of getting this working with gkrellm?

Do I need to run sensors_detect again?

Hope you can help please?

Peter

---

### Post by Werne on 2013-08-24
The open-source driver doesn't yet fully support Souther Islands and by the extension, Cape Verde cards. I get the same thing with 7770, you can get radeon working by switching to a DE without Compiz or compositing in general but then your mouse pointer will flicker. 13.10 works a bit better but it builds up way too much heat on both GPU and CPU even though it's using 7% CPU and 3% GPU, I'm hoping 14.04 will support Cape Verde (and hopefully, won't set it on fire like 13.10).

And to check GPU temperature while using fglrx, run this:
```
aticonfig --odgt
```

Unfortunately, as far as my experience goes, no temperature-monitoring program other than aticonfig is able to detect your GPU sensor once fglrx is installed, I got no idea why.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-08-24
Unity requires 3D acceleration, which isn't supported on Southern Islands series by default. If Unity finds no 3D acceleration from the GPU, it will use llvmpipe (i.e. the CPU) to do software 3D acceleration, which is really inefficient and taxes the CPU.
If you want to try out the open-source acceleration, see: [https://launchpad.net/~oibaf/+archive/graphics-drivers](https://launchpad.net/~oibaf/+archive/graphics-drivers)

---

