---
title: "Won't boot into GUI after restarting"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Hardware
---

### Post by torrentialrain3 on 2010-10-11
Hey guys =) So I installed Maverick yesterday and downloaded all the updates. Before restarting my system, I enabled a propriatary driver that was meant for my NVIDIA graphics card (A GeForce GT 325M). When I opened the setting through the menu, it said that it was the wrong driver but I didn't think anything of it.
 
Upon rebooting, Ubuntu won't load into the GUI. Instead I get the text base login. I did a little research and found someone else had a similar problem after enabling his NVIDIA driver and rebooting. The following codes were recommended to the user to fix the issue:
 
 
(A) sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
 
(B) startx
 
(C) dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
 
 
After trying (A), it kicked back the following message "Rather than invoking init scripts through /etc/init.d, use the service(8) utility, e.g. service gsm restart". After trying (B) it gave a brief notification that no screens were detected. And (C) just resulted in errors saying it didn't reconize the command.
 
Do I have to do a reinstall or is there some way to fix this? I would really rather not do a reinstall as I spent the entire day learning how to kill my 10.04 partition and then extending it to my primary partition.
 
Also, *if* the NVIDIA driver is the cause for this issue, does this mean that I won't be able to use my graphics card with Ubuntu? 10.10 lured me back in and I was going to use Ubuntu as my primary OS and Windows for programs I need for work that Ubuntu can't support (Adobe CS5 Master Suite, etc.).
 
Doubt it has an imapct, but I'm using the 64 bit version of Maverick.
 
Thank you for your help in advanced!

---

### Post by ayoung on 2010-10-12
hey, I had a similar problem with an nVidia GeForce3 chip.  removing the xorg.conf file auto-generated by the nVidia installer allowed me to boot into the GUI without any problems.

```
# mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nv
```

---

### Post by warmaster4z2 on 2013-03-14
> **ayoung said:**
> hey, I had a similar problem with an nVidia GeForce3 chip.  removing the xorg.conf file auto-generated by the nVidia installer allowed me to boot into the GUI without any problems.

```
# mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nv
```


This solution worked for me but then when i turned off my computer and turned it on again the gui wouldn't load. This blows.

---

