---
title: "touchpad on Dell"
date: 2006-03-24
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by DavidFourer on 2006-03-24
I want to modify mouse functions so I don't get unnexpected clicks.  Sometimes I don't understand what the touchpad is doing.  I would be happy to get rid of all tap features.  Below is abbreviated output from some key files pertaining to mouse and touchpad.  Does the SynapticsTouchpadHowto apply here?  I looked in the bios for some simple adjustments and didn't find much.
Ubuntu 5.10  on Dell Inspiron 6000

Thanks.

david@davidf:~$ cat /proc/bus/input/devices

I: Bus=0011 Vendor=0002 Product=0008 Version=0000
N: Name="PS/2 Mouse"
P: Phys=isa0060/serio1/input1
H: Handlers=mouse0 event1 ts0
B: EV=7
B: KEY=70000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
B: REL=3

I: Bus=0011 Vendor=0002 Product=0008 Version=7321
N: Name="AlpsPS/2 ALPS GlidePoint"
P: Phys=isa0060/serio1/input0
H: Handlers=mouse1 event2 ts1
B: EV=f
B: KEY=420 0 70000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
B: REL=3
B: ABS=1000003
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
david@davidf:/etc/X11$ cat xorg.conf
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection
Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by noob_Lance on 2006-03-24
im not sure exactally what your trying to do here... but for a quick solution... try my how to.. follow the link in my sig.

---

### Post by DavidFourer on 2006-03-25
Interesting, but I don't want to turn the touchpad off, I want it to work properly.  When I'm scrolling, I get clicks wherever the mouse happens to be, sort of like tap=click but I'm not very good at controlling it.  I'd like to dissable the tap and use the two buttons.  I wonder if changing "emulate three-button mouse" to False or off would help.  It says true.

---

