---
title: "7.10 ALC885 &amp; alsamixer"
date: 2008-02-14
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by msjones on 2008-02-14
Hi,

I managed to get my ALC885 HD codec working in gutsy... after much mental anguish :)

Now I want to turn my sound up. I go to alsamixer and whack the FRONT setting up to full.

Then I can just adjust the main volume from the slider on the desktop as and when. My problem is that alsamixer doesnt retain my settings for the FRONT option, giving me really low sound on startup until I go back in and adjust.

Is there anyway or anywhere I can force this in a .conf file?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by conartist on 2008-04-06
hello man...i have a little big problem..my sound does not work in ubuntu but in windows it does (i am running a dual boot xp and ubuntu) ..when i run alsamixer in the terminal it gives me this: card: HDA Intel
Chip: Realtek ALC885

i tried to search for drivers ...nothing works...


m8..Pls and with all the desperation i mean PLS help me!!!!! 


ps:i run linux for the first time in my life so if you can explain the steps...that will be perfect cause i do not know many things about linux( i am a ubernoob)! pls!:(

---

### Post by msjones on 2008-04-06
check PM.

---

### Post by Trollslayer on 2008-04-11
> **conartist said:**
> hello man...i have a little big problem..my sound does not work in ubuntu but in windows it does (i am running a dual boot xp and ubuntu) ..when i run alsamixer in the terminal it gives me this: card: HDA Intel
Chip: Realtek ALC885

i tried to search for drivers ...nothing works...


m8..Pls and with all the desperation i mean PLS help me!!!!! 


ps:i run linux for the first time in my life so if you can explain the steps...that will be perfect cause i do not know many things about linux( i am a ubernoob)! pls!:(

I'm in the same situation, any suggestions?
The video over HDMI is fine using the restricted driver (VLC is smooth), just the audio to sort.
Thanks.

---

