---
title: "7.04 &gt; 7.10 upgrade problem: Audio jack does not work"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-10-18
Hi forum,

After upgrading to KUbuntu 7.04 I have had problems with my speakers and 3,5mm audio out jack.

Usually the speakers are muted when I insert a pear of headphones in the jack. But after upgrading both the speakers and headphones plays the audio.

This worked fine before I upgraded.

How do I fix this; or get the required data&#8212;and what data?&#8212;to report the bug properly?


My computer is a *Lenovo N100 3000* with a *SoundMAX Integrated HD Audio card*.

---

### Post by Antimethod on 2007-10-18
i've got the same problem.

---

### Post by loopeando on 2007-10-20
Same here.

Try this and tell me if it works for you:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100_0768](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100_0768)

---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-10-21
I followed the [instruction](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100_0768#head-8cabc3f99f7cb09af12a0eaa4f2c0cd8e13a2ab3) in the wiki. Now KMix says that I have no sound card.

How do I fix that or rewert the changes?

---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-10-26
I do not know what this error message means or how to fix it. But I guess it is very relevant to my sound issues.

[b]$ alsamixer 
alsamixer: function snd_ctl_open failed for default: No such device[/b]

How to fix?

---

### Post by tacutu on 2007-10-28
if you have an intel card, try the instructions here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto?highlight=%28HdaIntelSoundHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto?highlight=%28HdaIntelSoundHowto)

they worked for me. Basically, you need to add the model=MODEL to the sound model

---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-10-28
I did **only** add the correct model, as per the instructions. BUT after reboot I had no sound what so ever. Removing the lines and rebooting again did not fix the issue.

$ dmesg says &#8216;hda-intel: no codecs initialized&#8217; and $ cat /proc/asound/cards says &#8216;no soundcards&#8217;.

---

### Post by Jimlas53 on 2007-10-28
Try working through this thread:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=530374](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=530374)
 This has worked for a number of us with the Intel HDA sound system.

Hope this helps!

-Doug

---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-10-29
After yet another fresh reinstall I immediately discovered this trough KUbuntu Device Database tester: **<bootdata>[   33.544173] ALSA /home/aleksandersen/alsa-driver/pci/hda/../../alsa-kernel/pci/hda/hda_intel.c:1074: hda-intel: no codecs initialized</bootdata>**

What were the alsa-driver doing in my home directory? There is no such folder present.

This happenns after I formatted the harddrive and reinstalled from original KUbuntu CD.

---

### Post by jcottier on 2007-11-28
You may want to try installing 32 bit versoin of Kubuntu. I have AMD64 dual core and after some research I decided there was hardly any performance advantage with 64 bit OS, but quite a few downsides, particularly with drivers, libraries etc. So I stuck with 32 bit. Its worth a try anyway.

---

### Post by Aleksandersen on 2007-11-28
I am on Debian 4.0r1 now. I tried using 32 bit but did not have working sound at all! So I installed 64 bit and got the same problem as I had with Ubuntu.

---

