---
title: "Ubuntu 7.10 on Fujitsu Siemens Amilo LI 1705?"
date: 2008-01-31
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by lucamoiana on 2008-01-31
Hello everyone,

I know that this sounds like an already solved problem to many of you but it isn’t for me; here it’s the situation:


Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo Li 1705, graphic card VIA P4M900, chipset VN896, I had ubuntu 7.04 and no drivers, so I was working at 800X600, then I upgraded to 7.10 but still there’s no way to have the graphic card to work at higher resolution. I tried everything I was able to find on the Internet but nothing worked, the best I could do was to have the splash screen at high resolution and Ubuntu running at minimum.

I am really frustrated and considering to sell the PC on ebay, before that I’d like to know if one of you solved the problem or if there’s a tutorial to do that.

Thanks

Luca

---

### Post by Wim Feijen on 2008-02-03
Hi Luca,

Here is what I did after installing Ubuntu 7.10 on my Fujitsu Siemens Amilo Pi-2530:

edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

and change the section "screen" to:


```

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport        0       0
                Depth   24
                Modes           "1280x800"      "1024x768"      "800x600"       "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Afterwards, restart X, then it will take effect (press Ctrl Alt backspace). Hopes this will help you as well!

Wim

---

### Post by lucamoiana on 2008-02-04
Hi Wim,


Thx for your help, I did copy the Screen part of the xorg file but didn't work.
Could you send me your xorg.conf file?
Otherwise what are the resolution you set on the graphic panel of ubuntu?
which drivers did you use?

Thx again

---

### Post by bailbath on 2008-02-04
From terminal- dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
This will allow you to set up xorg.I use vesa and 1280x800 for the same laptop LI 1705
Just answer the questions.
All the best
IAN

---

### Post by lucamoiana on 2008-02-05
I did try dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but nothing changed; the best I obtained was to have the splash screen 1280X800 but then Ubuntu wasn't working.
I should highlight that my installation was an upgrade, does that matter??
Can you cleary explain all the steps I should follow to get to the darm resolution, I'm almost giving up on Linux

Thanks

L

---

### Post by stoodleysnow on 2008-02-05
Feisty to Gutsy upgrades have been known to spit out random problems like this. I would suggest a backup and fresh reinstall.

---

### Post by lucamoiana on 2008-02-05
well I can try and format everythign but how???


First I'd like to know how to format the ubuntu partition only without ruin my Xp installation.

Secondly, when I try to run from the Live cd I have problem and it doesn't start probably because of the graphic card.

Hints on this problems???

L

---

### Post by bailbath on 2008-02-05
Use the alternate install cd for installation then once you have installed reboot, press esc to get to the grub menu boot the second choice safe setting to take you to command line then do dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg to set up your resolution.For your situation with xp be careful when setting up the partitions, I only use Ubuntu so it was straight forward for me. From memory the alternate cd install allows you to specify what you want formatted so as your laptop is already partitioned you should be fine.
Back up anything that is important but you know that any way:).
All the best
IAN

---

### Post by lucamoiana on 2008-02-06
I tried the alternate cd but it doesn't work and same thing for dpkg-reconfigure and set the resolution that is told to be supported. I tried Fedora and it worked but I still would like to use ubuntu :(

---

### Post by bailbath on 2008-02-06
I am using the same laptop as you with Ubuntu 7.10 with 1280x800 resolution!:confused:
When you configure with dpkg-reconfigure don't use Via  use Vesa.Here is my xorg.conf- note I have a external mouse and keyboard.Also when I got to the monitor section where you have to use simple medium or advanced I choose simple(cause I am!) and entered 15" monitor.I also choose 16 on the colour depth.
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
        Option          "SHMConfig"             "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"9chrome"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	VideoRam	256
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"1280x800 flat screen"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-50
	VertRefresh	43-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"9chrome"
	Monitor		"1280x800 flat screen"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by bailbath on 2008-02-06
> **lucamoiana said:**
> I tried the alternate cd but it doesn't work and same thing for dpkg-reconfigure and set the resolution that is told to be supported. I tried Fedora and it worked but I still would like to use ubuntu :(
In what way did it not work?
IAN

---

### Post by lucamoiana on 2008-02-08
Simple I set up all the configuration suggested and it visualizes a fuzzy screen unusable.

So what I finally did is, I screwed up all my installation and decided to start a fresh install on my machine, but when I enter the disc and choose install it starts and does its things then, at some point, it shows a mouse pointer then black, then some white noise on the screen like if it was searching the right resolution and it goes on and on until I turn it off....I'm almost giving up

---

### Post by bailbath on 2008-02-08
What did u specify  for xorg?
IAN

---

### Post by bailbath on 2008-02-10
If you have another live cd with KDE try copy and paste this from my xorg.conf.

Section "Device"
Identifier "9chrome"
Driver "vesa"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
VideoRam 256
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "1280x800 flat screen"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 28-50
VertRefresh 43-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "9chrome"
Monitor "1280x800 flat screen"
DefaultDepth 16
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1280x800"
EndSubSection
EndSection
IAN

---

