---
title: "6.06 attaching a parallel port CD-RW drive?"
date: 2006-11-17
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by mudlark on 2006-11-17
Hi kind soles,

I have a backpack cd rewriter drive connected to the parallel port on my small form factor computer,  The machine doesn't mount the drive at boot.

I would be very grateful if someone could walk me through how to make it a new device and mount the dear thing.

In case you're wondering it won't fit inside on the IDE tape, the box will only use laptop cd drives.

I am on Dapper and Kubuntu.

Cheers in hope,
Mike.

---

### Post by Neobuntu on 2006-11-17
Have you ever booted this Printer Port CD drive with Windows?

See, I think this is a function of your BIOS and if it does not look to boot from the (BIOS set) printer port then you don't boot.

Perhaps a DOS disk with the DOS Backpack driver setup on it would allow file transfer and starting of some things...

Oh wait. Maybe a custom GRUB but I don't know if GRUB "sees" the Parallel port. Maybe you could have a "Boot from BackPack CD-RW" title in the GRUB menu list.

I believe there is a kernel driver (after boot) but I haven't used it yet. I do have a "Backpack" myself.

What say ye, GRUB gurus?

---

### Post by Neobuntu on 2006-11-17
Lookie what I found. This is surely due to SLAX ability to boot from DOS though. 

> After booting from a dos floppy that automatically loads drivers for my PCMCIA cd-rom drive, generic USB drivers to boot to my USB pen drives and USB CD-ROM drives and drivers to boot to my parallel port microsolutions backpack cd-rom drive. Then all I do is type THREE SIMPLE COMMANDS to run the .bat file on the SLAX CD or from my USB flash/pen drive.

1) A:\> D:
2) D:\> cd dos
3) D:\DOS> linux.bat

AND SLAX BOOTS !! ! !

It booted here from USB but if the Backpack is readable, it should too. Hey, at least you can do (secondary) boot's that work in DOS now. This should open some doors.

---

### Post by mudlark on 2006-11-18
Hi,
the CD_RW works fine on windows xp.

unfortuneatly I am not familiar with your other comments?

I have a cd rom that is bootable on ide0.

The case won't hold a 51/4 drive.

where do i go now?

M.

---

### Post by Neobuntu on 2006-11-22
Oh, (duh) you could get a IDE laptop(size) to desktop (size) IDE adapter and use your full size CD-ROM drive temporarily to boot what ever you are installing.

I think you have a tiny desktop and not a laptop (but laptop drive in it) right?

Also, you could pull the hard drive and put it temporarily into another system with a CD-ROM for installing (and then put it back to complete the install).

Are you sure your box doesn't have regular sized IDE connectors for  temp hook up of that spare and regular (5 1/4") CD-ROM drive.

---

### Post by mudlark on 2006-11-22
Hi The machine boots fine but the parallel cd-rw doesn't appear as a device. 
The mobo has the usual two ide ports.

i suppose the best thing to do is to make a new box.

cheers,
m.

---

### Post by Neobuntu on 2006-11-27
I guess if you want the small box with external CD-ROM you might get what you want with an USB external CD drive instead. You could probably sell the printer port CD drive to a notebook owner with no CD Drive.

This way, the USB drive could also work on almost everything else.

If you don't have a USB 2.0 connection (for speed), you can add them cheap (PCI or PCMCIA). Just make sure your power supply can handle it.

The question arises: Can we do without a CD drive? It is tough when it comes to booting off a CD. This is mainly needed for installation. 

With broadband, loading software on CD becomes much less a need. Ironically, if you have an old floppy drive. It can make unbootable flash drives bootable. Most brand newish motherboard will boot USB flash drives if set up in the BIOS. Otherwise, use a boot floppy to jump start a USB boot.

Who knows, before long maybe Flash drive downloads will be the norm; over CD iso downloads (for boot able installs).

---

### Post by Neobuntu on 2006-11-27
I'm assuming you need to boot a CD.

Booting is different than using, after the OS is up. It depends on your BIOS settings in the motherboard and older motherboards boot to floppy which might be made then to boot USB drives in a two step process.

Once your preferred OS is installed (unless you also want to play with live booting CDs and not bootable USB drives), your only real need is shuffling software around and then the USB port drives (or networking) might be a better alternative. 

So maybe you don't have to give up on your small box.

What do you want to do?

It seems to me that a small box advantage over a small notebook would be greater flexibility.

How small is it? Is there a picture?

---

### Post by mudlark on 2006-11-27
I think I will be giving up on the small box. The motherboard uses an odd connection panel and the power supply is also odd and noisy. I can't get a reasonable sized fan on the cpu either so that is also noisey.

I hearby give up!
Thanks for your efforts neobuntu.
M.

---

### Post by Neobuntu on 2006-11-28
Yep another non standard hardware failure.

Here's hoping for small and better standard boxes (and notebooks).

I'm sure you will succeed on your next box.

I think a truly compatible (devices) notebook would be the best way for me. Anyone have suggestions?

---

