---
title: "Gateway 400VTX Laptop Resolution"
date: 2006-08-10
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Blaineus on 2006-08-10
Ok, So I've tried all the things in [COLOR="Red"]**915resolution**[/COLOR], editing xorg.conf, and the like, and still no help.  Perhaps you guys can help.

My laptop is capable of 1024x768, but GNOME only allows for 800x600 and 640x480.

Here is my xorg.conf file.

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	32768
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection



and **[COLOR="Red"]915resolution[/COLOR]** lists my correct resolution in one of the lines.  i can use 1024x768x16.  Any ideas???

---

### Post by jthirt on 2006-10-10
I have the exact same issue. And I looked at many posts in English and French, but no solution to this resolution problem. :( 

I don't understand where gnome-display-properties gets its list of resolutions ! It shows 800x600 and 640x480 while these are not even listed in the xorg.conf. But they must be listed somewhere ...:confused: 

I tried to get details about the laptop specifications and it comes as : 

> 
Graphics controller: Intel 852MG (chipset integrated)
                     2D hardware acceleration
                     3D rendering acceleration

Video memory: UMA (shared memory) architecture with Dynamic Video
              Memory Technology (DVMT)

LCD display panel: 15.0-inch active matrix (TFT) LCD color display
                   Maximum panel resolution: 1024 × 768
                   Maximum color depth: 18-bit (262,144 colors)

LCD supported video modes: XGA

LCD maximum refresh rate: 60 Hz
                          
Controls: Brightness level selectable through FN keys (up, down)
          Auto dim on battery
          Auto bright on AC power

External video: Supports dual display and dual view

External CRT resolutions: Supports standard IBM VGA compatible modes
                          Maximum resolution: 1920 × 1200 × 16-bit colors

External CRT maximum refresh rate: 85 Hz



This is really frustrating. :cry:  And I must resolve this before I hand over this laptop to my mother... :oops: After all I said about Ubuntu, I don't want my parents to be disapointed with it! 

Please point me in the right direction ... [-o<

---

### Post by Blaineus on 2006-10-10
Haven't had any luck or replies either bud.  Sorry.

---

### Post by jthirt on 2006-10-10
Well, if it doesn't bite here, then I guess we have to find a different way of attracting attention. I hate to think there is a simple solution to this and we are stuck in the middle of the pound  while the others are having fun on the banks. 

Let's see if we can turn that one around.

---

### Post by jthirt on 2006-10-11
Unfortunately, after a fair amount of testing and research I found out that this is probably not fixable without a BIOS upgrade that is unlikely to be available for this laptop.

So I reluctantly give up trying as I've already spend far too much time on that one !

At least I have learnt that before installing, you are better off cheching any uncertainty if some stuff don't work out of the box when using the live CD.

---

### Post by poppakap on 2007-09-26
:guitar::guitar::guitar:
It has taken me weeks to come up with the solution. After every forum thread everywhere somebody would end up saying something like "must have something to do with the driver" and that is EXACTLY what it ended up being.

On intel's website you need to get the driver in an rpm format -

[http://downloadcenter.intel.com/detail_desc.aspx?strstate=live&productid=865&dwnldid=8211&agr=n&lang=eng&prdmap=865](http://downloadcenter.intel.com/detail_desc.aspx?strstate=live&productid=865&dwnldid=8211&agr=n&lang=eng&prdmap=865)

The file name is dri-I915-v1.1-20041217.i386.rpm

Now, since you are running Ubuntu which is based from Debian, you have to use "alien" to convert it and install the package.

[http://linux.die.net/man/1/alien](http://linux.die.net/man/1/alien)

From the command line type in
sudo apt-get install alien
and then put in the root's password. You will need to have your ubuntu CD in the CDRom

Go to the directory with the rpm file and type in
alien -i dri-I915-v1.1-20041217.i386.rpm

This will install the driver package.

Reboot!
Now when you go back into xorg, you will still be in 800x600. Now you can go to System->Preferences->Screen Resolution and choose your 1028x768 with 70mhz

In case this doesn't work now, you have to make sure that resolution is in your xorg.conf file. You can edit the monitor section of it or you can just run something like

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
pick the "intel" driver, and video ram make it 65536

Reboot, and the change the screen resoultion as above.

I'm telling you I was about to throw the laptop away, but this fixed it!! I have a Gateway 400VTX.

---

### Post by jthirt on 2007-10-22
Wow, I must get my hands on that laptop again and try this. 

In fact I spent quite some time trying the new intel driver at some stage, but gave up as it required more and more components so it became too much for me poor technical skills and available time ...

I knew this would be resolved someday. Now I must implement it !

Thanks.

---

