---
title: "altering GDM settings"
date: 2004-11-29
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by amg on 2004-11-29
Hey guys, 

how do I edit what settings GDM uses when Ubuntu startsa up, or a user logs out. 'Cause now, my screen goes blank, and I have to try to blindly log-in to an account. The X GDM config tool doesn't support this setting, so I'm at a loss here.

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-11-29
[QUOTE=amg]Hey guys, 

how do I edit what settings GDM uses when Ubuntu startsa up, or a user logs out. 'Cause now, my screen goes blank, and I have to try to blindly log-in to an account. The X GDM config tool doesn't support this setting, so I'm at a loss here.[/QUOTE]
 Computer------->System Configuration-->Login Screen Setup

---

### Post by amg on 2004-11-30
as i said before, the X Gnome Display Manager config tool doesn't have a setting to alter this. so, I'm looking for what I think is a text file.

any suggestions?

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-11-30
[QUOTE=amg]as i said before, the X Gnome Display Manager config tool doesn't have a setting to alter this. so, I'm looking for what I think is a text file.

any suggestions?[/QUOTE]
 my bad 10pm is like 3am for me :)

So X crashes on logout everytime?

---

### Post by amg on 2004-12-01
3am is no fun, oh wait, it's 4am for me now, so i might be apologizing next :)

on boot-up, when the start-up scripts start the Gnome Display Manager, my screen turns off, or enters power saver mode, or something. I can try to switch the display settings with ctrl+alt+numpad +/-, which will freeze my system, or log-in blindly, where my display settings are fine.

i think it has to do with the refresh rates:

when i first set up ubuntu, i logged in and ctrl+alt+numpad -/+ to a smaller setting, altered the reresh rates, and everything works fine. 

I've muddled around in xf86config, but bad memories from other linux installations make me want to stay away from this one.

so, in answer to your question: yeah whenever i log out x crashes, or uses too high of a setting, or something.

(pardon the long-windedness, i'm like john kerry, explaining every point into confusion)

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-12-01
OK yeah this is X not working -  gdm just starts X and displays a theme locally or remotely 

lets get your video working right -  can you attach a text file with the results of 

dmesg

and a copy of your /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 

and a copy of /var/log/X*.0.log

---

### Post by amg on 2004-12-01
My XFree86.0.log file was too large, so I hosted it remotely:
[http://angryguerilla.com/XFree86.0.log.txt](http://angryguerilla.com/XFree86.0.log.txt)

Along with XFree86.0.log.old:
[http://angryguerilla.com/XFree86.0.log.old](http://angryguerilla.com/XFree86.0.log.old)

The other two requested files are attacehd as requested.

And i don't wanna nit-pick, but isn't X working since I'm in it right now? I don't wanna try to be all technical about the situation, I'm just trying to understand.

I was under the impressions that GDM was trying to use a setting that was too high, or too much for my setup.

Maybe I should let you help me fix the situation first, and then I can bugger you with questions.

Thanks by the way for the help.

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-12-01
Im gonna take a look at the logs in a few minutes- but to answer your questions
X is working but it isn't fully functional if it dies when gdm restarts it 
The settings that would be too high are X settings not gdm settings the ctrl-alt-backspace +- type things all change X not gdm

Your video card supports alot higher resolutions- how high do you want it? its currently at 1024x768 - i havent changed it in this file but you can in the section that looks like this
```
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection 
```
just change "1024x768" to "1600x1200" or "1400x1050" or "1280x1024" u get the drift

your video card does tv out and bunch of good stuff you should read up on 

okay make this your new XF86Config-4


```
# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"speedo"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load	"xtt"
	Load 	"ati"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xfree86"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon AiW 8500 DV (R200 BB)"
        Driver      "radeon"
        VideoRam    65536 
        Option      "EnablePageFlip" "on"
        Option      "MonitorLayout" "CRT, NONE"
        BusID       "PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
#	HorizSync	30-70
#	VertRefresh	50-160
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon AiW 8500 DV (R200 BB)"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
 
```

---

### Post by amg on 2004-12-02
First of all thanks :)

I got some good news: GDM works fine! so thanks for that.

but I also got some bad news: when i log in my system freezes during the log in process. I can use "failsafe gnome" which works fine, but can't log in any other way.

My screen will either log-in fine, with the music, and all the niceties, but I can't use the mouse, or I'm stuck staring at a blank default brown wallpaper, with nothing.

Any suggestions?

Also, I also added higher resolutions like you mentioned, but can't seem to get them to change through the Screen Resolution app from within Gnome, the highest it offers me is 1024x786. Although I'm under the impression that this will be alleviated when the first hurdle is "jumped".

If you need the output of dmesg, or anything else again, lemme know.   

I know my card does some cool stuff, but whenever I muddle around in XF86Config files/settings I seem to break something really badly; get frustrated; and then begrudginly re-install, simply because I don't know any other way.

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-12-02
Let me confirm somethings
Have you performed a  sudo apt-get update          sudo apt-get dist-upgrade      recently?
Do you have the security sources in /etc/apt/sources.list?


Is this a PC that you are leaving continously on - are you rebooting frequently ? How did you initiate the changes?

You say you added the changes- how did you do it?  When you login the new default larger resolution should be present you shouldnt have to use the screen resolution app.

dont reinstall/uninstall everything because you have problems :) thats a painful road so if you can avoid it do so

---

### Post by amg on 2004-12-02
its on all the time.
and another yes to the next three questions.

as for adding the changes:i opened the file, selected all, and pasted the contents of what you sent me. saved the file, and logged out. this is when problems started.

i went down for a reboot, and the problem was still around.

the resolution isn't present, it looks exactly the same.

and i know reinstalling is a bad option. the problem with me is i cut my teeth on win98 so i don't know any better. i havent yet grasped how linux operates, it;s ins and outs, its way of doing business, windows was simple to me, probably cause i used it so much.. not too say linux is hard, it just handles things differently.

but your definitely helping me, cause i definitely dont want to reverse back into windows.

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-12-02
okay - do this for me
try to login and logout until you get that blank screen then  after it does it get a copy of these files for me
 /var/log/syslog 
/var/log/messages 
/var/log/XFree86.0.log 


also what is your monitor's make and model number? im asking this to make sure the range's associated with it in your xfree86config-4 file are correct, that effects possible resolutions


hey win98 was the best thing out there in 98 - remember when people lined up around the block for it lol  98 was cool
the difference is you see everything in Linux while windows is obscured by layers of trash to protect the fact they are basically using unix on intel too

---

### Post by amg on 2004-12-03
as requested:

[http://angryguerilla.com/messages.txt](http://angryguerilla.com/messages.txt)
[http://angryguerilla.com/syslog.txt](http://angryguerilla.com/syslog.txt)
[http://angryguerilla.com/XFree86.0.log.txt](http://angryguerilla.com/XFree86.0.log.txt)

they all were too large, so i had to host them remotely. my apologies if this is inconvenient to you.

its a samsung syncmaster 753df, and i think it can't handle high resolutions with high refresh rates together. it's gotta be one or the other. i'm sure it can do 1280 by whatever other number usually goes there: 1024 (i think), but only at like a 65 refresh rate or something like that.

yeah, i do remember that everyone all excited for "the future of computing", "look! a mouse!"

but i got bored in windows, here i'm challenged, i have to learn, and think, and discover. it's fun again. windows was too easy, they did make it simple for the population, but cut out some of the power. 

rather like manual vs. automatic transmissions. automatic is easier, but you loose something in the conversion.

back in windows; yeah, i can setup a home network, get three monitors up-and-running in a snap, but i don't know how it does it. i used wizards: i didn't have to think. microsoft made educated guesses for me and i dont like being cut out of the thought-making process.

i'm tired of that, i'm happy here, even if now and again, i get flustered.

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-12-04
sorry i took so long -  i cant see your X log the link is bad

---

### Post by amg on 2004-12-04
try it now.

sory about that, forgot a slash.

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-12-04
can you add this line to your /etc/apt/sources.list  

deb [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) warty-security main 


then do a 

sudo apt-get update && apt-get dist-upgrade

something else seems wrong here

---

### Post by amg on 2004-12-05
i already had that in my sources file, although mine also said "restricted", i did an update && upgrade though, but retrieved nothing.

which means i'm up to date, right?

what else do you think it could be?

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-12-07
Im really not sure since none of those logs are showing me the errors you are experiencing- I'd try reinstalling X with synaptic- can't hurt    I had to use openbox on another system I have because of the gnome problems - but now it seems I have other issues too so I might have to install a different distro

---

### Post by amg on 2004-12-07
couldn't it be something to do with the startup scripts or something like that, 'cause when i log into gnome failsafe, it tells me that start-up scripts aren't being started, or initialized.

so couldnt it be some sort of other software thing interferring?

this is how i look at it, if i can get a display at gdm absolutely fine, X is fine. if when i try to log in it crashes, something else is at fault, no?

btw i really appreciate all the help you have given me.

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-12-07
X or gnome is hosed- but the fact your whole screen blanks out and we were addressing previous inconsistencies with X so ....
It could be something within gnome but you say sometimes it works fine and that makes me think its a messed up X component.  Gnome just starts nautilus and a few other apps , go into synaptic and search for gnome and select everything listed and mark for reinstallation - apply then reboot   see if that works then do the same with X

Honestly im gonna install another distro on my server here because of the same deal with bugginess and gnome plus a module I need makes the kernel panic so thats useless  - also try Hoary if none of that works- Im pretty stable on my laptop with hoary
also try running memtest that cant hurt

---

