---
title: "I need to be root to mount a USB key?"
date: 2007-07-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by weedenbc on 2007-07-05
Been using Feisty for a couple weeks now and ran into a problem.  Every time I plug in a USB key I get an error saying I don't have the proper privileges to mount it.  If I run the mount from the commandline as root it mounts, but then if I try and unmount it from the desktop it says the volume is not mounted.

This was working a while ago and just recently started.  I really, really need to be using my USB key.  Any idea what could have happened and how I can get it back to letting a normal use be able to mount it and copy files over?  Thanks.

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2007-07-05
What options are set for it in /etc/fstab?  As far as I know it shouldn't be there at all (it should be managed by udev), but if it somehow got there the mount options might do this.

---

### Post by scragar on 2007-07-05
I had this problem once, the only way I could copy things was to open up a folder, press crtl and L to open the location box and type: "/media/usbdisk", then as long as I kept the window open I could copy files to and from the window, in the end I would up re-installing ubuntu and the problem hasn't re-occured.

when the problem occured with me though I manualy changed all of my directorys to give me root permitions, which is what I think caused the problem...

---

### Post by Super TWiT on 2007-07-05
Try mounting the usb key and then typing into a terminal _sudo chown -R 777 /media/disk_.  This is assuming your usb key is /media/disk.  This should give everybody access to it.  Hopefully, this will fix your problem.

---

### Post by weedenbc on 2007-07-05
> **aquavitae said:**
> What options are set for it in /etc/fstab?  As far as I know it shouldn't be there at all (it should be managed by udev), but if it somehow got there the mount options might do this.

There is the following I just noticed in fstab:

```

# Generated by Automatix
#/dev/sda5   /media/sda5   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/sdb1   /media/sdb1   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

```

sdb1 is where the usb key usually mounts - maybe it was mounted when I installed Automatix?  I should just be able to comment out the sdb1 line and see if that works.

sda1 is my ntfs partition that I dual-boot winXP from.

---

### Post by scxtt on 2007-07-05
is your user in the "plugdev" group?

do: **cat /etc/group | grep plugdev** and see if you see your username ...

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2007-07-05
> **weedenbc said:**
> There is the following I just noticed in fstab:

```

# Generated by Automatix
#/dev/sda5   /media/sda5   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/sdb1   /media/sdb1   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

```

sdb1 is where the usb key usually mounts - maybe it was mounted when I installed Automatix?  I should just be able to comment out the sdb1 line and see if that works.

sda1 is my ntfs partition that I dual-boot winXP from.
Commenting it out should work. As scxtt points out - check if you're in the plugdev group.  Also check if you're in the disk group.

---

### Post by weedenbc on 2007-07-05
Well it turns out that Automatix entry was the problem.  It was trying to execute that on boot except there wasn't a drive there.  Then when I inserted the usb drive under my user session it got all sorts of confused.

Thanks for the help.

---

