---
title: "need help setting refresh rate to 60hz"
date: 2005-06-24
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by crummer32 on 2005-06-24
Hi, I know its weird to need to set my refresh rate so low (60hz), but its the only refresh rate at which my monitor doesnt jiggle. I've been trying to edit my xorg.conf file but I cant seem to get it to work. Please help. I will post the whole xorg.conf below...thanks in advance.

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 Pro (R350 NH)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"false"
	Option "no_dri"                     "false"
	Option "UseInternalAGPGART"         "no"

EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Gateway VX920"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30.0-96.0
	VertRefresh	50.0-140.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 Pro (R350 NH)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


---

### Post by FrzzMan on 2005-06-25
Try to change your xorg.conf to this:

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Gateway VX920"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 30.0-96.0
VertRefresh 50.0-**70.0**
EndSection

Then restart X

---

### Post by skoal on 2005-06-25
Make these changes (in red) to your 'xorg.conf' file, and keep your HorizSync/VertRefresh settings as you already have them:

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Gateway VX920"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 30.0-96.0
VertRefresh 50.0-140.0
[COLOR=DarkRed]# 1600x1200 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 74.52 kHz; pclk: 160.96 MHz
  Modeline "1600x1200_60.00"  160.96  1600 1704 1880 2160  1200 1201 1204 1242  -HSync +Vsync
# 1024x768 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 47.70 kHz; pclk: 64.11 MHz
  Modeline "1024x768_60.00"  64.11  1024 1080 1184 1344  768 769 772 795  -HSync +Vsync
# 800x600 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 37.32 kHz; pclk: 38.22 MHz
  Modeline "800x600_60.00"  38.22  800 832 912 1024  600 601 604 622  -HSync +Vsync
# 640x480 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 29.82 kHz; pclk: 23.86 MHz
  Modeline "640x480_60.00"  23.86  640 656 720 800  480 481 484 497  -HSync +Vsync[/COLOR]
EndSection

and...

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 Pro (R350 NH)"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
[...]
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
[COLOR=DarkRed]Modes "1600x1200_60.00" "1024x768_60.00" "800x600_60.00" "640x480_60.00"[/COLOR]
EndSubSection
EndSection

log out of Gnome/KDE -> ctrl-alt-del -> restart X -> login -> and get ready for a visit to your optometrist in 2 to 3 weeks...

wow! 60Hz??...my eyes! my eyes! it buuuurns...........

* If it's just 1600x1200 you need 60Hz at, then remove the other 1024 and below entries in red (or just don't make 'em).

\\//_

---

### Post by FrzzMan on 2005-06-25
LCDs need no more than 60Hz I think...

I once follow the "long" way to tell my Ubuntu to use 85Hz, but later I've just raised the minimum refresh rate to 80, and then Ubuntu have no other way than use 85Hz instead of 60Hz :D

---

### Post by crummer32 on 2005-06-25
Thank you very much skoal! 

... unfortunately I tried doin it myself before you posted that and now linux wont boot the GUI. I was editing the XFConfig-4 file I tried changing all the @## to @ 60 in a part that looks like of like the section you posted skoal. Is there any way to fix this easily? Or even edit it? I tried doing 

> sudo gedit /etc/X11/XFConfig-4 

in the recovery mode and it wouldnt let me edit the file from the terminal, any ideas?

---

### Post by crashtest on 2005-06-25
[QUOTE=crummer32]

in the recovery mode and it wouldnt let me edit the file from the terminal, any ideas?[/QUOTE]

Not sure what changes you made to the file that broke things, but from a text screen you will have to use a non-graphical editor like vim if you want to try editing the file.

The standard method before making changes to a file like xorg.conf is to make a backup copy of it first:  sudo cp  xorg.conf xorg.conf_bak (or some similar name)  Then if you completely bork the file, you can copy it back from the recovery console: sudo cp xorg.conf_bak xorg.conf

---

### Post by crummer32 on 2005-06-25
Thanks Crashtest,
Well what I did in the XFConfig-4 was after each line where it lists resolutions (it looked kinda like it does in the xorg-conf) I changed whatever it said to @ 60hz. A lot of them were @ 75hz or @ 85hz

To use vim is it just: sudo vim /etc/X11/XFConfig-4 ?

If someone were to post their XFConfig-4 would copying theirs fix mine? Just some info about my comp. I have a Radeon 9800 pro and use 1600 x 1200 resolution. Please help.

---

### Post by az on 2005-06-25
No.  Do not change it by hand for something like this.  Delete it and do


sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg


Pick medium when it comes to your monitor and pick 1024x788 at 60 Hz and you will be good.

You only need to change the file by hand when you need something special, linke a software-cursor or dual monitor, or certain drivers...


To be complete, you may need to kill the X session that is running (if there is one running) so that it can properly detect your hardware.

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

and then after you have finished reconfiguring,

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

---

### Post by skoal on 2005-06-25
[QUOTE=crummer32][...]To use vim is it just: sudo vim /etc/X11/XFConfig-4 ?[/QUOTE]
I'm terribly confused.  *How did we go from the 'xorg.conf' file you posted originally to 'XFConfig-4'*?  Just follow azz's suggestion or simply copy/paste your original 'xorg.conf' file you posted here back into /etc/X11/.  That will at least get you back to the beginning.

\\//_

---

### Post by crummer32 on 2005-06-25
I cant copy and paste my original file because I cant boot the GUI in Ubuntu. In your PM you said that the XFConfig-4 is an older version of the Xorg? I dont know why but I have both files in my Ubunto /etc/X11 folder.

---

### Post by crummer32 on 2005-06-25
the problem is that before anyone posted anything I read somewhere that you could do it from the XFConfig-4 and now thats all messed up and I cant boot to linux anymore.

---

### Post by skoal on 2005-06-25
Crummer, are you using Ubuntu 5.04 (Hoary) or the older one, Warty (4.something or another)?  Are you using another Linux distro maybe?  I just don't understand where you got that XF86Config-4 file from.  You need to keep things consistent if you want to get a consistent sol'n.  'XF86Config' is old skool X server stuff.  Ubuntu Hoary uses 'xorg.conf' (your *original* post).  Which is it? Help a brutha out...

\\//_

---

### Post by skoal on 2005-06-25
Ahh, I see now...

ok, well you can try this:

1. Copy/paste your original 'xorg.conf' file you posted here in this thread to the same file name in your home directory (/home/crummer32/xorg.conf).
2. When you load up Ubuntu, choose the "rescue" mode.
3. login with your username password.
4. copy your 'xorg.conf' file back to /etc/X11 with:
sudo cp /home/crummer32/xorg.conf /etc/X11

or

5. load up the "rescue" mode and follow azz's suggestion given previously.

\\//_

---

### Post by crummer32 on 2005-06-25
Hey everyone, thank you for all the help. I did the thing that azz suggested and everything seems to be working swimmingly now. Its at 60hz as well so no jiggles! I really must thank everyone especially azz and skoal for their wonderful help. thank you guys so much!

---

### Post by skoal on 2005-06-25
Hey, that's great crummer.  

If you didn't know, when you use 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg' to reconfigure your server, it will replace your existing one and make a backup of it in '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.<year><month><day><time>' (like xorg.conf.200506251500).  

Since this method replaces your old one, any custom settings you had from the prior config are lost.  If that's not entirely what you expected, you can always look at your backup file and add those custom settings back in if necessary.

\\//_

---

### Post by crummer32 on 2005-06-25
yeah I noticed that the custom settings that enabled my 3d acceleration were gone after the reconfigure, and I couldnt get it over 1024x768. so I copied the stuff from the one i posted, and it got my acceleration back and my rez up but even with the additional stuff that you posted in red in your original post it didnt get me to 60hz.  :|

---

### Post by skoal on 2005-06-25
Oops! Crummer, I guess we're right back where we started from, square one.  Well, anyways, I was trying to get you a permanent solution everytime you logged into Gnome.  You may have to do this everytime you relogin, but in case you didn't know, select from the Gnome menu:

System > Preferences > Screen Resolution

and you can change the refresh rate there.  There's a "make default" checkbox you can enable?  Have you already tried that?  Does it not remember those settings each time you log back in?  I don't know why my modeline settings didn't work for you.  I'll see what else I can find out in the meantime...

\\//_

---

### Post by crummer32 on 2005-06-25
because of the custom driver i have installed so that my 3d acceleration works i cant use the pref>screen resolution option. It says 

"The X Server does not support the XRandR extension.  Runtime resolution changes to the display size are not available."

---

