---
title: "Thanks for thinking of people with old video cards (not)."
date: 2007-04-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-20
I have always joked that my old 1300mhz machine with a geforce2 mx400 64mb card did it all, it ran fine and even the beryl cube worked.

Now I just upgraded to feisty and all has gone wrong. X won't boot, gives errors of glx / nvidia drivers. So installed the module again (which I have to each time a kernel is updated), only to find that my card now all of a sudden is lumped in the legacy driver draw, with consequence that I can't get it to run with feisty.

Installed the 9631 module as told to by the installer, won't load glx, installed legacy glx, wont load 9631 module as it is incompatible with the legacy glx module. Great. Thanks. Can't install older driver cause I can't find which one is supposed to fit with what.

Now all I get is blue-x error screen with The nvdia kernel module does not appear to receiving interrups generated by the nvidia grapics card. So with google I found that one must add a boot line

pci=noacpi 	don't use ACPI for PCI IRQ routing
pci=biosirq 	use PCI BIOS calls to retrieve the IRQ routing table
noapic 	don't use I/O APICs present in the system
acpi=off 	disable ACPI

But have no idea where to add this as I tried and it made no difference, so I am assuming it is in the wrong place.

So kernel team, thanks for that, great work in b0rking guys with old machines, andI say so as I have read that I am by far the only one.

Oh and going back to an older kernel doesn't work either as Feisty apparently is dependent on the new kernel?

I love Ubuntu but this is just awful

---

### Post by Steve H on 2007-04-20
I had loads of trouble with my Nvidia card after the Feisty upgrade, but i found the answers [_here_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=409940").

Hope this helps

---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-20
Well I stripped out all of the modules, changed from nvidia to nv driver and I have desktop, although there is no accellation to speak of. WIll try and add modules one by one and reinstall nvidia.

---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-20
So I am loving this dependency hell, turns out

If you have a geforce2 like me you need the older nvidia driver (71xx) because you can only use the nvidia-glx-legacy drivers, which in turn will only work with 71xx. None of the 71xx install in the new feisty kernel.

Great.

---

### Post by dank277 on 2007-04-20
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/restricted-manager/+bug/108128](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/restricted-manager/+bug/108128) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				I had similar problems with a set-up as your Cheese'.  If you installed the NVIDIA drivers in Edgy with the NVIDIA app or with the Envy script in order to use Compiz/Beryl  see my bug report that may help you.  You may have to reinstall the nvidia-glx package.  Your card should work with the 96xx Nvidia driver.  

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-21
Thanks dank, I am rebooting as we speak, hope it works.

Well, X still hangs with  "Failed to load nvidia kernel module" and in the error log of xorg it shows all modules loaded until the end it gives the same failed to load nvidia module error, and then promptly unloads nvidia, ramdac and fb.

Why won't it work?

---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-21
I can't get the nvidia module to load, when I type "modprobe nvidia" or "modprobe nvidia-glx" I get "fatal: error running install command for nvidia"

I have tried the following:

Nvidia-8776 / nvidia-glx 
Nvidia-8776 / nvidia-glx-legacy

Nvidia-9629 / nvidia-glx 
Nvidia-9629 / nvidia-glx-legacy

Nvidia-9631 / nvidia-glx 
Nvidia-9631 / nvidia-glx-legacy

What combination am I supposed to use? My mx400 card should work with 96xx and nvidia-glx right?

Found this :[http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2007/03/25/success-compiling-nvidia-8776-driver-on-feisty-2620-12-386/#comment-2703](http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2007/03/25/success-compiling-nvidia-8776-driver-on-feisty-2620-12-386/#comment-2703)

but that didnt work either.....pffffff..

---

### Post by sargo on 2007-04-21
I tried nvidia-glx-legacy, nvidia-glx and nvidia-glx-new. According to nvidia web GeForce2 MX400 is supported by the nvidia-glx-new but didn't work in my case. With nvidia-glx, the problem is in the restricted modules that seems compiled for the legacy ones. I hope Ubuntu people fix this issue ASAP (I want my Beryl back again snifff...) and have a clean installation of Feisty.

Sorry for my english...

---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-21
That explains a lot, as I have a patched 8776 driver now failing on sh: /sbin/lrm-video: not found, which is referring to a restricted module package....so there is a dependency error from nvidia?

--edit---
Just installed nvidia-glx-new to see if it would work, but get (EE) no devices detected. :(

I want my beryl!

--edit 2---

You were right, there is a miss match of modules, for a mx400 card like mine you need the 96xx driver (or patched 8776), but this is linked to the legacy drivers which in turn will not work with the 96xx. As if you install the glx-new it will error on version miss match of module and driver. So can the ubuntu team please like compile a new nvidia-glx / nvidia-glx-new that does work with the drivers for our cards?

---

### Post by ditikos on 2007-04-21
> **sargo said:**
> I tried nvidia-glx-legacy, nvidia-glx and nvidia-glx-new. According to nvidia web GeForce2 MX400 is supported by the nvidia-glx-new but didn't work in my case. With nvidia-glx, the problem is in the restricted modules that seems compiled for the legacy ones. I hope Ubuntu people fix this issue ASAP (I want my Beryl back again snifff...) and have a clean installation of Feisty.

Sorry for my english...

I had the same problem on my Clean install. Before that, though I had an Xubuntu that i upgraded to Feisty distro and I knew the problem, so I used native drivers. My problem though continues to the clean install. I enabled desktop effects (after the legacy driver of nvidia installer was installed) but when I disabled them once, now they are not being enabled :( :confused: :confused: 

Anyone knows remedy?

---

### Post by sargo on 2007-04-21
In my opinion I don't know who have the dependancy problem but IMHO with restricted modules for each nvidia package I think the issue will be resolved...

In another post I can see that nvidia-glx-new don't support GeForce 2 MX400 ([see]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/README/appendix-a.html")), then we need the nvidia-glx working with the correct restricted modules... to have again beryl working...

---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-21
I am stuck on this damn lrm-video error, each time I modprobe or just load the nvidia driver I get the same error. So I checked the modprobe setup.

“modprobe -c | grep nvidia” I get some references to that lrm-video.

“alias char-major-195* nvidia
alias char-major-195-* nvidia
#Make nvidia/nvidia_legacy and fglrx use /sbin/lrm-video to load
install nvidia /sbin/lrm-video nvidia $CMDLINE_OPTS
install nvidia_legacy /sbin/lrm-video nvidia_legacy $CMDLINE_OPTS
install nvidia_new /sbin/lrm-video nvidia_new $CMDLINE_OPTS
blacklist nvidiafb”

It seems like it is linked, but why?

Anyway try this: [http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2007/03/25/success-compiling-nvidia-8776-driver-on-feisty-2620-12-386/#comment-2734](http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2007/03/25/success-compiling-nvidia-8776-driver-on-feisty-2620-12-386/#comment-2734) instead of the nvidia-glx stuff.

---

### Post by boast on 2007-04-21
how are you guys able to start the system wih a gf2?

I cant seem to.. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=416859](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=416859)

---

### Post by sargo on 2007-04-21
> **boast said:**
> how are you guys able to start the system wih a gf2?

I cant seem to.. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=416859](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=416859)

First of all for me, with the exception of nvidia drivers, Feisty is better than Edgy. I have working all things (ntfs-3g, etc...) with the X the only way I found is the **nv** driver. If you system don't start you have several ways to modify you /etc/X11/xorg.conf. In a dual boot with Win... you can access to your linux partition (only ext3 or ext2 I think) with ExploreFS and modify de xorg.conf. You can modify that file too with any live CD distro including Ubuntu of course :) .

---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-21
Under edgy I had my gf2 running beryl with most of the effects, but under feisty, as you can read some of us are having issues. I switched to the "nv" driver so I can at least get desktop, but that's without any acceleration.

**[B]Boast**[/B] I am using an] AGP card btw.

---

### Post by sargo on 2007-04-21
As I can see in the forum the trouble with nvidia drivers is general. If you don't want to use nothing except the repository packages I think we must wait (with the nv driver) until the Ubuntu guys solve the problem. If you can't wait try one of the solutions related to original nvidia drivers...

My Beryl, my beryl ... :) .

---

### Post by ditikos on 2007-04-21
> **sargo said:**
> As I can see in the forum the trouble with nvidia drivers is general. If you don't want to use nothing except the repository packages I think we must wait (with the nv driver) until the Ubuntu guys solve the problem. If you can't wait try one of the solutions related to original nvidia drivers...

My Beryl, my beryl ... :) .

I used automatix and it installed the nvidia that can play well with the system. Compiz though is not activating itself. Is there a way to reconfigure Desktop Effects? Or to reinstall them if that matters?

---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-22
Well I fixed it! And have accelerated X and the nvidia drivers installed and working. How? Let me show you ;)

First read this [http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2007/03/25/success-compiling-nvidia-8776-driver-on-feisty-2620-12-386/#comment-2784](http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2007/03/25/success-compiling-nvidia-8776-driver-on-feisty-2620-12-386/#comment-2784)

Which explains that if one does not want to wait for the ubuntu repo drivers to be fixed one can use the older 8776 driver from nvidia.com and patch it with the patch in the link above. This patch will make it possible to make a module for the new kernel (feisty). Which does work.

Before you do this you must be sure you have removed & --purge all linux-restricted-modules (be that common/2.6.20-generic/386 etc), all nvidia-glx / nvidia-glx-legacy / nvidia-glx-new and nvidia kernel modules.

To be sure open synaptic and search for 'linux-restricted-modules' and 'nvidia' and COMPLETELY remove all packages. (EVEN if they are not installed, you can sometimes still right click and 'remove completely') Once your system is clean from old installs and drivers / modules, you can patch the 8776 and run the installer. 

For me it gave interrupt errors and killed x, but after I added ‘noacpi’ ‘nolapic’ & ‘irqpoll’ to the grub list and rebooted it worked fine.

I now have accelerated X (glxgears & info work) and Beryl loads without a hitch. (rc3)

---

### Post by sargo on 2007-04-23
I fixed too... :) and Feisty runs like a charm... I saw a confirmed bug about nvidia-glx-new (in Ubuntu bugs) and although you uninstall completely the package one file remains. This file is **_/lib/linux-restricted-modules/.nvidia-new-intalled_**. In my case I removed that file and made a reinstallation of **nvidia-glx** and all worked like always but without XGL ( :) :) ).

Sorry again for my English I'm spanish...

---

### Post by CheeseEatingBulldog on 2007-04-26
Just to verify that the above solution of removing that file enables you to install nvidia-glx with the 9631 driver module from the nvidia site. This also had the added bonus that the new nvidia settings tool set up my twinview in MINUTES! And I now also have a second x screen (my tv) to play my movies on.

I was a bit down on feisty at first, but this is turning out to be the best yet!

---

