---
title: "8.04 Alpha2 + 8800GT -- Stable(ish)?"
date: 2008-01-07
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by TroyDowling on 2008-01-07
Hey, I recently got a new machine because my old desktop sizzled. This new machine (stats at bottom) is sporting an 8800GT GPU which I've read to bad review in the case of support for it. I've all but given up hope for making 7.10 work with my card, but I figured that the Alpha2 of Hardy might be able to cope with the co-processor. After installation (the LiveCD works fine) I get prompted to reboot like normal. After that it boots up, I see the nice friendly logon screen where I enter my credentials. This is where is gets hazy... I've reinstalled about five times now and it always leads to one of two situations:

1) After the login screen disappears, all I see is my cursor and the Ubuntu-colour background. Hard drive activity stops and it appears as if the computer has hung.

2) The FIRST time I boot after the install everything works great. Gnome fires up, I play around with some applications, set up my user groups and permissions, etc. But when I shutdown and boot up for the second time, it reverts to scenario-one.

I'm moderately new to Linux, but I'm not a total newbie. This has me stumped though. I know it's unsupported as of now, but I was hoping some of you gurus here could help me out with this problem. WinXP (I'm dual booting) is starting to get the better of my patience.

My System:

[LIST]
[*]Asustek P5N-E SLI Motherboard
[*]Zotac 8800GT GPU
[*]Core2 Quad Q6600
[*]3GB DDR2 PC2-6400 RAM
[*]500GB Sata2 (Windows and Linux)
[*]160GB - NTFS (Storage)
[*]500GB External (More Storage)
[/LIST]

Any suggestions are welcome here, or in an email.

[email]troydowling@shaw.ca[/email]

---

### Post by TutonicMonkey on 2008-01-07
I was able to get my 2 - 8800 gt's in SLI to work on 7.10 32 bit using the ALT-CD - the install works perfect but your stuck in 800x600 low mode. I was able to use use ENVY to manually install the nvidia driver 169.04 - It works fine but has no control over the fan which runs @ 100% and is very loud but it works.

---

### Post by TroyDowling on 2008-01-21
Notes from the noob:

Hey, I wont pretend to understand how this seems to solve my problem but here's what I found (through trial and error) solves the issue with my computer. Firstly, I'm beginning to think that it was a problem either with the ALPHA copy I have of Hardy installed, or somethng with GDM. Either way, once I "logged in" or rather it freezes, I pop over to TTY1, throw the machine down to 'init 1' then back up to 'init 3'. Pop back over to the login screen and try again. It loads perfectly.

Hope this helps someone else, and if any of the gurus here could explain why this helps that would be groovy.

---

### Post by TroyDowling on 2008-01-21
Notes from the noob:

Hey, I wont pretend to understand how this seems to solve my problem but here's what I found (through trial and error) solves the issue with my computer. Firstly, I'm beginning to think that it was a problem either with the ALPHA copy I have of Hardy installed, or somethng with GDM. Either way, once I "logged in" or rather it freezes, I pop over to TTY1, throw the machine down to 'init 1' then back up to 'init 3'. Pop back over to the login screen and try again. It loads perfectly.

Hope this helps someone else, and if any of the gurus here could explain why this helps that would be groovy!

---

