---
title: "Alt Gr key not working on laptop"
date: 2005-12-22
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by runlevel0 on 2005-12-22
I'm having a very strange problem with Kubuntu Breezy 5.10 on my laptop [1]. The problem is that I'm unable to use the AltGr key.

Normally I use the default setup "105-PC (Inlt)" and it has always worked on my other distros (SUSE, Gentoo and Mandriva 2006).

Changing the keyboard definition from kcontrol doesn't seem to work. I have also reinstalled the kde-i18n-es package and changed the default language to en_US, C and es_ES with no noticeable results.

Is there a way to edit some file so I can set it manually?

I would greatly appreciate any help as I need the laptop. Reinstalling would be a problem as I need my laptop running ASAP because I'm going to work abroad and the AltGr key is *vital*, else I wont be able to write a single email or edit my sources.list :P

PD.: The problem is strictly X related, as the key does work from the console (tty)
I have installed Xkeycaps. the program recognizes my keyboard and maps the AltGr Key correctly... but KDE does not honour my settings and keeps ignoring the AltGr Key. Now I'm completely clueless.

TIA and: 

Happy Holidays ;)

[1] Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo K7600, the keyboard has a Spanish layout.

---

### Post by runlevel0 on 2005-12-22
I got it running issuing this command:
```

sudo xmodmap .xmodmap-'uname -n'

``` 
The file .xmodmap-'uname -n' is generated by xkeycaps (apt-get install it if it's not present in your system).

That's the recipe:

```

apt-get install xkeycaps
xkeycaps   (save results)
echo "xmodmap .xmodmap-'uname -n'" >> .bashrc

``` 
That's all.

---

### Post by runlevel0 on 2005-12-22
NOTE: Put the above command into your .bashrc file. It does not work from your .bash_profile script (.bash_profile is executed at user login, before the X stuff gets up).

Now the keyboard and the AltGr key work, but I just miss some bindings (like '~'). They are simply not present in my keyboard and I will set them myself by hand. This is not a specially difficult task and also not specially harmful. Just make a backup copy.

As I was already doing this by hand, I took the chance to customize some settings, like enabling the german &ssharp; (ssharp), the pound sign (sterling) and the 'Micro','Euro' and cent signs (SGML/xmodmap entities: ssharp, sterling, mu, EuroSign and cent).

Take a look at my attached xmodmap file (Spanish, accents and custom bindings).

---

### Post by nameghino on 2006-10-23
Hello!
I installed XGL/Beryl successfully (using [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271533") guide), It works great, but while running Beryl, I couldn't use my AltGr key.
I used your Xmodmap_es to see if it could be fixed, however, I lost my CTRL key after doing so. I'll check the forum in order to fix it, and I'll appreciate if someone could help me out =)
All keys work perfectly if I'm using KDE.

BTW: xkeycaps tells me that I have a spanish 105-Key keyboard

Thanks in advance

Edit: after posting, I checked the CTRL key in xkeycaps and when pressed, it doesn't highlight in the keyboard drawing in Beryl. In KDE, the same action lights up the key.

---

