---
title: "Can't Write to External HD (FAT32)"
date: 2007-08-30
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by le_vainqueur on 2007-08-30
I have been using my external hard drive (FAT32) extensively as of late, but I have suddenly done something to lose my write access to it.  I have tried to change the permissions to the drive using the command

> gksudo nautilus

but that did not work.

The output of the command:

> cat /etc/fstab

is...

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=c9071cbe-7d6f-45a0-be76-82405d11c323 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=C894-8B6A /media/documents vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=7DFF-FB3E /media/windows vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=f80b4050-4069-4849-8721-78326cfffc4d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

My external hard drive was mounted at the time of running that command, but I do not see it listed (it should be sdb1).  Any hints?


Thanks

---

### Post by Marat Galiev on 2007-08-30
You see you drive in My computer?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-30
It looks like you will have to mount the drive manually.

Info here:

[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p10.htm#Mounting_Windows_with_Dapper_Desktop](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p10.htm#Mounting_Windows_with_Dapper_Desktop)

-merlin

---

### Post by vanadium on 2007-08-30
An external drive is not listed in fstab. External drives are automatically mounted under /media when you plug them in with full permissions for the current user. An icon appears on the desktop. However, when it is mounted, you should see it listed in the output of "mount". I understand well that you your drive is mounted (icon appears on the desktop, you can access it using nautilus, listed in output of mount), but you cannot write on it?

---

### Post by le_vainqueur on 2007-08-30
> **vanadium said:**
> An external drive is not listed in fstab. External drives are automatically mounted under /media when you plug them in with full permissions for the current user. An icon appears on the desktop. However, when it is mounted, you should see it listed in the output of "mount". I understand well that you your drive is mounted (icon appears on the desktop, you can access it using nautilus, listed in output of mount), but you cannot write on it?

That is correct.  I have been able to write to it until a couple of days ago.  I was backing up my partitions using the Live CD, and when I logged back into Ubuntu I was unable to write to the drive (I tried to create a folder, and failed).  I am still able to read from the drive without any problem.  I pulled several items off just to make sure, so I know that it is mounted properly, but there is some sort of error with the permissions.  

Knowing that it should not be in fstab is definitely helpful, thanks.  Is there a different way (other than the ones I listed in the first post) that I can change the permissions for the drive?

---

