---
title: "CPU Scaling problem"
date: 2006-12-27
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by biohazardousguy on 2006-12-27
Hi Guys,
First of all thanks for all the info from this forum. It made my life more easy.
I have moved totally from Win to Linux now, and Ubuntu is the second distro I try. Dapper was really nice, easy to install and work with.
I moved to Edgy for a few weeks now, and it is working pretty well an my Asus laptop. I have a pro60v machine, with pentium M 725A on Intel 915GM chip,  ati x700 card and all the rest. Almost everything works.I didn't tested my infrared and firewire, and the card reader detects  only sd cards not memory sticks, but xgl and beryl are fantastic, the keyboard was correctly configured from the box and I also write on NTFS without any problems. Thanks again for the help.
The problem that I have now is the cpu scaling feature. As I remember in dapper worked fine, but in Edgy a have some problems.
So, the cpu scaling it self works, I am able to change the governor and the frequency from the gnome-panel applet. As soon as I change the governor to conservative for example, it gains speed and never returns to lower values, without the cpu being under heavy load. I leave the computer without any activity for 10 min and the speed does not return to lover values under the conservative or ondemand governor. (like it should)
I do not like this from 2 reasons
1. it is something that should work and I hate when things dont work ](*,)  :mrgreen: 
2 the CPU temperature is quite high on idle and the fan never stops. 
So, from where should I start digging?
I believe that you already realized that I am not an linux ace, but I am wiling to learn.
I have attached a report generated by HardInfo, maybe it is useful. Please contact me for any other questions regarding my configuration.
Sorry for by bad English.
Salutations from Romania

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-12-27
Make sure you have the right drivers for your cpu loaded (i.e. speedstep driver for Intel, PowerNow! driver for AMD). 

Also check that cpufrequtils is installed, it's in the repo's (maybe named slightly different). The source is at kernel.org if you're interested.

After that, open a terminal & try: 
**cpufreq-set -g ondemand** or: **cpufreq-set -f *(desired frequency)*** eg. cpufreq-set -f 800000 will set 800MHz.

Let us know the result ;)

Tony.

---

### Post by biohazardousguy on 2006-12-28
Hi and thank you Tony for the quick reply.
How do I know which driver I have loaded ? If I look at the kernel modules with hardinfo modules I see this ones which I find relevant: speedstep_centrino,
cpufreq_userspace, cpufreq_stats, freq_table, cpufreq_powersave, cpufreq_ondemand, cpufreq_conservative.
I installed cpufrequtils with synaptic and when I do
 ´´sudo cpufreq-info´´
I get
´´cpufrequtils 002: cpufreq-info (C) Dominik Brodowski 2004-2006
Report errors and bugs to [email]linux@brodo.de[/email], please.
analyzing CPU 0:
  driver: centrino
  CPUs which need to switch frequency at the same time: 0
  hardware limits: 600 MHz - 1.60 GHz
  available frequency steps: 1.60 GHz, 1.60 GHz, 1.60 GHz, 1.60 GHz, 1.60 GHz, 1.40 GHz, 1.20 GHz, 1000 MHz, 800 MHz, 600 MHz
  available cpufreq governors: userspace, powersave, ondemand, conservative, performance
  current policy: frequency should be within 600 MHz and 1.60 GHz.
                  The governor "userspace" may decide which speed to use
                  within this range.
  current CPU frequency is 600 MHz (asserted by call to hardware).´´

I can not find any problems so far.

Runing
mm@mm-laptop:~$ sudo cpufreq-set -g ondemand 
changes my governor and increases the speed from 600 to 1600 in no time with no heavy cpu load (at 600 mhz the load is about 50%)
Runing  
sudo cpufreq-set -f (600000)
sets my CPU at 600. 
Also I have found something else with I think is the answer. As soon as I remove the power cord, the scaling feature works fine. It means that the freq decreases fine like it should, according to the cpu load when on on demanad or conservative governor.
So it might a issue regarding the power and the state of the computer in  pluged in or not.
Also the cpu load it self it seems like it goes down when not pluged in.
What next?

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-12-28
There's also a nice utility called laptop-mode-tools.
It is configured via a configuration file, but allows you to set governors for different situations, ie with battery, without battery, lid closed, etc. It also allows configuration of various other power saving features such as disk spin down.

Also worth consideration, have you got any processes that are taking up too many cycles (hindering the governor)? Use *sudo top* to see what's taking up your resources.

Tony.

---

### Post by biohazardousguy on 2006-12-28
Hi again,
I have fallowed your suggestion and had a look log in the configuration file for laptop_mode. I enabled it so that it will load also when the computer is pluged in and made the parameters for pluged in mode similar to the on battery mode. Nothing changed. If the power cord is not pluged the system uses well the auto scaling feature, being able to adapt the freq according to the  the load.
If I plug in  the power cord the freq increases in one step and it stays there.
I have also looked the load on the CPU using sudo top and the output is attached.
One strange thing is that if i do 
mm@mm-laptop:~$ sudo cpufreq-info
I get:

cpufrequtils 002: cpufreq-info (C) Dominik Brodowski 2004-2006
Report errors and bugs to [email]linux@brodo.de[/email], please.
analyzing CPU 0:
  driver: centrino
  CPUs which need to switch frequency at the same time: 0
  hardware limits: 600 MHz - 1.60 GHz
  available frequency steps: 1.60 GHz, 1.60 GHz, 1.60 GHz, 1.60 GHz, 1.60 GHz, 1.40 GHz, 1.20 GHz, 1000 MHz, 800 MHz, 600 MHz
  available cpufreq governors: userspace, powersave, ondemand, conservative, performance
  current policy: frequency should be within 600 MHz and 1.60 GHz.
                  The governor "conservative" may decide which speed to use
                  within this range.
  current CPU frequency is 1.60 GHz (asserted by call to hardware).
There are some steps which  are repeating. Is that ok? Maybe that the trouble could come from here.
Thank you for the tips,

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-12-28
That's a nice setup you've got there, however I can't see an obvious problem.
Here's my output:
```
root[ahaslam]# cpufreq-info
cpufrequtils 0.4: cpufreq-info (C) Dominik Brodowski 2004
Report errors and bugs to [email]linux@brodo.de[/email], please.
analyzing CPU 0:
  driver: powernow-k8
  CPUs which need to switch frequency at the same time: 0
  hardware limits: 800 MHz - 1.60 GHz
  available frequency steps: 1.60 GHz, 800 MHz
  available cpufreq governors: ondemand, powersave, userspace, performance
  current policy: frequency should be within 800 MHz and 1.60 GHz.
                  The governor "ondemand" may decide which speed to use
                  within this range.
  current CPU frequency is 800 MHz (asserted by call to hardware).
root[ahaslam]#
```

Most of the differences are due to different architectures, though you're using the conservative governor. The 'conservative' governor that is currently being used on your system isn't the best. Most people want 'performance' or 'ondemand', with the default being 'userspace' (which is set in the kernel config). If you haven't explicitly set the governor to conservative (either by cpufreq or laptop-mode), there may be a conflict with the sensor applets that you're running. 

All I can suggest is that you try disabling/removing all your sensor applets, rebooting & trying again.

Tony.

PS. Here's my system running (sorry it's Zenwalk, but for this matter Linux is Linux):

[ATTACH]21785[/ATTACH]

I can't understand why yours is showing 51% - Nothing is showing up in *sudo top* :-k In addition to the applets, there is a possibility that *lmsensors* (? - I'm a little rusty) may be confusing things.

Unfortunately, this is as far as I can go. I have limited experience with Edgy & I don't currently have it installed. I have also never used XGL/Beryl, I doubt this would cause the problem (as many others would be on this thread) but were you using an accelerated desktop under Dapper?

Good luck, let us know how it goes ;)

---

### Post by biohazardousguy on 2006-12-28
Hi again,
Nice screen, I am a more mouse and icons guy. If I can´t click it means a little bit of trouble. I like to get the hands dirty in the comand line, but not too much. It is still puzzling me.
Now back to my problem, as I am still trying to overcome it. I didn´t solved something but some stuffs are more clear now. It is not a CPU scaling problem, but a power management problem. The scaling works fine, with all the govenors as long as the computer is not pluged in. IN the same conditions, if I plug it in the load increases slightly and the freq goes to 1.6 ghz. So or something is eating up cpu power and makes the speed go up or something puts the speed directly to 1.6. I consider the first possibility  to be the more realistic one. I have to determine who is making CPU load. As you said Tony, top does not show anything and more then this I can see an extra process on top when on battery: multiload-apple. 
Is there an other way to list the running processes and applications? The default sistem monitor also does not show anything but weird stuff. On AC power the same applications are consuming more CPU (at 1600mhz)  then on battery (and the freq of the cpu is only 600 mhz). Annoyingly strange isnt´t it ?


lm-sensors are for sure not the cause as they are disabled. The readings are from hddtemp and acpi sensor. I used xgl and beryl in Dapper to without any problems, so it is not from here. Beside, if I start without xgl things are the same.  Tony, why don´t you try xgl or compiz things are really fantastic with this things. Some thing need to be worked still a little bit, like the gDesklets automatic startup but nonetheless  are really god.

I am more and more convinced that the problem is in the switch from  battery power to AC power, so is more like a power management problem . I will also to rename the thread accordingly.

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-12-28
> **biohazardousguy said:**
> As you said Tony, top does not show anything and more then this I can see an extra process on top when on battery: multiload-apple. 
Is there an other way to list the running processes and applications? The default sistem monitor also does not show anything but weird stuff.
**pstree -pah | more** may help identify processes. The 'multiload-apple[COLOR="Red"]t[/COLOR]' is an applet for the gnome-panel that allows the display of system parameters as graphs. Did you remove the processor and load applets from your panel? 

> Tony, why don´t you try xgl or compiz things are really fantastic with this things.

Unfortunately I have unsupported graphics (VIA Unichorme Pro K8M800) & now appreciate lighter DE's.

Tony.

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2006-12-30
[I][SIZE="1"]I think I've found your problem.

I've just installed Debian Etch on another partition & had the same problem. 
It turns out that the required kernel module is not loaded by default. 

Here's an extract of the config:

# CPUFreq processor drivers
#
CONFIG_X86_ACPI_CPUFREQ=m
CONFIG_X86_POWERNOW_K6=m
CONFIG_X86_POWERNOW_K7=m
CONFIG_X86_POWERNOW_K7_ACPI=y
CONFIG_X86_POWERNOW_K8=m
CONFIG_X86_POWERNOW_K8_ACPI=y
CONFIG_X86_GX_SUSPMOD=m
CONFIG_X86_SPEEDSTEP_CENTRINO=m
CONFIG_X86_SPEEDSTEP_CENTRINO_ACPI=y
CONFIG_X86_SPEEDSTEP_CENTRINO_TABLE=y
CONFIG_X86_SPEEDSTEP_ICH=m
CONFIG_X86_SPEEDSTEP_SMI=m
CONFIG_X86_P4_CLOCKMOD=m
CONFIG_X86_CPUFREQ_NFORCE2=m
CONFIG_X86_LONGRUN=m
CONFIG_X86_LONGHAUL=m

I needed POWERNOW_K8 enabling, so I used: **modprobe powernow-k8**
I then set the governor with: **cpufreq-set -g ondemand** 

I believe you'll need the SPEEDSTEP_CENTRINO module, if it works you can add the module to /etc/modules and the required cpufreq command to /etc/rc.local.

Tony[/SIZE][/I]

**[SIZE="5"]SORRY, PLEASE IGNORE, I FORGOT YOUR SECOND POST [/SIZE]**

:rolleyes:

---

### Post by CrunchyDoodle on 2006-12-31
I've been frustrated trying to configure automatic frequency scaling on my Centrino notebook. As others have noted, frequency scaling has worked properly until the Edgy upgrade.

Much of my frustration is that the simple fixes some people propose, don't work because the Centrino Speedstep control module claims to not exist in a 386 Edgy boot up, and I can't boot the generic kernel, because it just hangs.      ](*,) 

Any useful suggestions would be appreciated.

Bye.    :cool:

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2007-01-01
> **CrunchyDoodle said:**
> I've been frustrated trying to configure automatic frequency scaling on my Centrino notebook. As others have noted, frequency scaling has worked properly until the Edgy upgrade.

Much of my frustration is that the simple fixes some people propose, don't work because the Centrino Speedstep control module claims to not exist in a 386 Edgy boot up, and I can't boot the generic kernel, because it just hangs.      ](*,) 

Any useful suggestions would be appreciated.

Bye.    :cool:
For a Centrino you should be using the i686 kernel (though I doubt there's much difference with the i386, as the configs are pretty generic). If the module is not loaded upon boot, it does not mean that is doesn't exist. 

After installing the 686 kernel (and rebooting) try modprobing the appropriate speedstep module as I mistakingly suggested in my previous post. If it reports no problem you're in business & can continue on to setting up cpufreq as I have already covered.

I have covered almost everything I know about processor scaling here. The only other thing I can suggest is to compile your own kernel (recommend 2.6.18.6) with your current config, paying close attention to architecture, power saving & scaling.

Tony ;)

PS. Is there a speedstep daemon available in the repo's? I just thought I'd mention it as I had to install 'powernowd' under Debian Etch, which was included in a standard Dapper install :-k

---

### Post by CrunchyDoodle on 2007-01-03
I appreciate you taking the time to try and assist me. I have not experimented with pulling pieces of other Linux distributions into the ubuntu version I'm trying to get working correctly. I guess I was hoping for a simpler fix.

You mentioned trying the i686 version of Edgy. That does seem to exist. There is the i386 and the generic versions. I cannot boot the generic version for some reason - it hangs, then times out into a busy box. I guess I'll need to wait until a more comprehensive solution comes along.

Bye.    :cool:

---

### Post by ahaslam on 2007-01-03
Please don't be confused by me mentioning Debian, I did not have to pick & mix packages between distro's. I mentioned Etch as I have little experience with Edgy, but have recent experience with the same issue in Debian. As Ubuntu is based on Debian and Edgy is at a similar level to Etch, I thought using Debian examples would help me explain.

If Dapper is missing something you want, I suggest that you have another read through this thread and search for anything that you're not clear on. If you experience further problems post your error messages & we'll gladly offer assistance. If you only updated to Edgy to be up to date, Dapper is much easier & it's no dinosaur ;)

Tony.

PS. You shouldn't have to compile your own kernel for this to work on Ubuntu, and ignore the bit  about the speedstep daemon, I searched for it in Debian, there's no such thing anyway (cpufreq will suffice).

---

### Post by biohazardousguy on 2007-01-05
Hi again guys,
In a very strange way I managed to fix my problem. After the idea of switching the kernels I tried to switch to 686, but I found out that the generic kernel is the 686 kernel in Edgy. So I thought why not and installed the 386 kernel. It works fine and the cpu scaling problem is solved just like that. But I repeat my self, it was not really a scaling problem, but more like CPU load problem. I could change the freq. but in on demand mode all the time it stayed at maximum. And my cpu was on quite  a load all the time, but I was not able to detect the cause. Now is nice, it stays almost with no load when surfing the web and stays at 600 mhz with 42 degree Celsius which is fine for me. With the generic kernel it stayed all the time at 1.6 ghz and more the 50 degrees celsius which was disturbing for me. 
I m still testing to see the performance, but is good for now.
Thanks again for the support
Marius

---

