---
title: "Nvidia Geforce 6200 Freezes"
date: 2007-03-23
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Derspankster on 2007-03-23
I'm currently running Edgy. My system specs are as follows:

    * MSI K8T Neo-V v1.X motherboard
    * AMD Athlon 64 3200+ 2.2 MHz CPU
    * Arctic Pro64 CPU Cooler and Fan
    * On Board AC97 Audio 
    * 80 gig Seagate ATA 100 7200 rpm hard drive
    * 160 gig Seagate ATA 100 7200 rpm storage drive
    * MSA Geforce 4000 64 MB Geforce Video Card
    * 1024 MB PC3200 Ram
    * Onboard 10/100 NIC
    * Lite On CD/DVD RW Combo Drive
    * Microsoft Wireless optical mouse
    * 19" Acer 1917 LCD monitor
    * Yamaha speakers with IBM sub-woofer
    * Cooler Master Centurian 5 case
    * Antec 400W power supply

Here's my current xorg

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc101"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Nvidia Geforce 4000"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	VideoRam	64
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Acer AL1917"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Nvidia Geforce 4000"
	Monitor		"Acer AL1917"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


The system is stable and runs well.  Here's my issue. I purchased a EVGA Geforce 6200 AGP card with 256 MB to upgrade my video.  When I install the new card, the system will boot but it freezes almost immediately.  I have "nvidia" in the driver section of my xserver-xorg.  I have tried reconfiguring xserver-xorg but nothing works.  Seems like a driver issue but I don't know.  ** My current driver is 1.0-8776**.  Sometimes the mouse arrow doesn't even appear, I just get a fuzzy block where it should be. I can stick my MSI 4000 back in and all is well again. I have tried 2 different 6200 cards and they both do the same thing. HELP!

---

### Post by rabbi1337 on 2007-03-23
Have you tried the latest driver 1.0-9755?

It can be found and installed [here]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html").

---

### Post by Derspankster on 2007-03-23
No, I haven't. I would need to install it with my old card, the MSI 4000 in because my computer will boot but then freeze with the 6200 installed. Thanks for responding.

---

### Post by leebies on 2007-04-06
did this fix ur problem?  I am having a similar problem see my thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2411215#post2411215](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2411215#post2411215)

I dont have however an nvidia card that works that i can run the drivers with :(

---

### Post by hlee on 2007-11-01
i am having the same problem .. also with xp .. have nvidia geforce 6200 and asrock dual series  MB .. system will not boot (or reboots continuously after keyboard reset)  with nvidia (xp or linux).. works ok with radeon 9800 video card...  system will boot with nvidia if i hold the power  button down until the system shuts down .. then wait a few seconds and hit power button again .. then system boots ...  looks normal in photoshop but some games wont play or  play very slowly ..  asrock people gave some CMOS  chages and the latest video drivers/MB drivers  but that didnt help ..  they said that the MB may not be compatable with nvidia in some cases .. i have tried many combinations with out luck .. been fooling with this for months .. seems to happen with other asrock series and other nvidia card combinations as well

---

### Post by mmcmonster on 2007-11-02
Interesting.  I am running into the same problem with my AMD64 3200+ with a PCI-E nvidia 6200.

It works fine with nv driver and with windowsXP, but freezes at random times with the nvidia drivers under Ubuntu 7.04 and 7.10.

I'm planning on getting a new nvidia card, but is this a problem with the motherboard?  Anyone else try changing out the video card and getting a better one to work?

---

### Post by Presto123 on 2007-11-02
Try this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=594255&highlight=beryl+6200](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=594255&highlight=beryl+6200)

I have no problems with my 6200 after doing it this way.

This is with a fresh install, though.

---

### Post by mmcmonster on 2007-11-07
Interesting.  I replaced the nvidia 6200 with a 8600GT and had the same problem. :-(  Works fine with the nv driver, but freezes up in a few minutes after reboot with the nvidia driver.

---

### Post by mmcmonster on 2007-11-07
8600GT works fine with [this solution]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=882885&postcount=2").  My guess is that the 6200 would as well.  Then again, why would I ever go back? :-)

Edit: It works fine with compiz, but when I run glxgears, X crashes. :-(

Edit 2: It works perfectly without the solution I mentioned above when I did a fresh installation of Gutsy. :-)

---

