---
title: "Permissions on /dev/usb/lp0 and CUPS non-printing"
date: 2005-07-09
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by chandra on 2005-07-09
I have a Kyocera-Mita printer accessed as the local USB printer #1 on CUPS. It
has worked well all along on Kubuntu Hoary, but suddenly stopped working today.
Removing and adding it again led to the printer being recognized from within
Konqueror. However, once the test page was sent the printer suddenly stopped
accepting jobs. It could be re-started but if the queued job was sent to the
printer, it would again stop working.

The file /var/log/cups/error_log stated:

Unable to open USB device "usb://Kyocera/Mita%20FS-1010": No such device

On googling for something like this, I came across advice on Ubuntu forums that
one should set permissions on /dev/usb/lp0 so:

sudo chmod a+rw /dev/usb/lp0

After I did that, I *was* able to print once more.

However, after re-boot the permissions have to be set again.

Surely, this cannot be default behaviour.

ls -al /dev/usb/lp0

gives

crw-rw-rw- 1 root lp 180, 0 2005-07-09 23:44 /dev/usb/lp0

Is this a bug? If not, what do I have to do to enable persistent permissions on
/dev/usb/lp0.

Thanks.

---

### Post by chandra on 2005-07-10
It appears that the cause is deeper and more sinister than I had thought.

The file /etc/cups/cupsd.conf from the cupsys package started like this:

#
# "$Id: cupsd.conf.in,v 1.17 2005/01/03 19:29:45 mike Exp $"
#
# Sample configuration file for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS)
# scheduler.
#
# Copyright 1997-2005 by Easy Software Products, all rights reserved.

The file I had as /etc/cups/cupsd.conf when I lost printer function had the
following head:

# CUPS configuration file, generated by CUPS configuration tool.
# This tool is part of KDEPrint, the printing framework for KDE
# since version 2.2.2 and is used by the CUPS supporting module
# in KDEPrint. The predecessors to KDEPrint in former KDE releases
# were KUPS and QtCUPS; they are deprecated and no longer maintained.
#
# Author: Michael Goffioul
#
# Web site: [http://printing.kde.org/](http://printing.kde.org/)


I do not know which Ubuntu package I installed made the switch (because I did
not). So this file must have been modified by some package I installed from the
repositories, including universe, multiverse and restricted. The most recent was
a series of backports of acroread from restricted.

In any case, doing an

apt-get remove --purge cupsys cupsys-bsd cupsys-client

and re-installing and allowing browsing and export of my printer, restored the
status quo ante.

[COLOR=Red]No change of permissions to /dev/usb/lp0 is then required.[/COLOR]

Because I cannot identify the culprit package, I cannot file a bug report. But
given the large number of printer-related problems on this forum, I thought that
I should document this in case it helps someone. :)

---

