---
title: "Bcm 4306"
date: 2007-07-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by sdmtnbiker on 2007-07-05
ok, I am a total newbe, I installed Feisty Fawn on my Compaq 2500, everything seem to work but the wireless, I feel pretty stupid after reading the forums because I have no idea what they are talking about, is there a step by step instruction site/book/PDF/scrap of paper that would walk me through the installtion of what I need to get it working?
Thanks,
Steve

---

### Post by divague on 2007-07-05
I have that same card, open a terminal Applications->Accesories->Terminal, and type:

sudo apt-get install bcm43xx-fwcutter

restart your computer, and that's how i got it to work.

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by sdmtnbiker on 2007-07-05
got this after I typed in what you suggested
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package bcm43xx-fwcutter

---

### Post by divague on 2007-07-05
maybe is somtheing about the repositories, do you have the multiverse repositorie enabled?

if not, i used this guide to edit my repositories

[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Feisty#How_to_add_extra_repositories](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Feisty#How_to_add_extra_repositories)

---

### Post by sdmtnbiker on 2007-07-05
everything is checked.  I am at a loss.

---

### Post by divague on 2007-07-05
There is no bcm43xx-fwcutter in the repositories?
Which one have you used, the graphical or the manual way?

---

### Post by sdmtnbiker on 2007-07-05
I am assuming I used graphical  System/Admin/Software Sources.

---

### Post by divague on 2007-07-06
Go to System->Administration->Synaptic Package Manager

press the reload button

then search, and type bcm43

there should appear the bcm43xx-ffwcutter package

---

### Post by sdmtnbiker on 2007-07-06
ok, I did that and it seems to have worked to a point, I can see networks but I can't connect to them  :(    I am trying to connect to mine that is not secured and it has signal strength of 95%
Should I have roaming checked or unchecked?
Am i having fun yet?

---

### Post by divague on 2007-07-06
Roaming should be checked.

This trick helped me, open a terminal, and type:

sudo nautilus /lib/firmware

now there should be some file with bcm43xx_***.fw select those files right click->copy, there sould be one or two folders named 2.6.20-*-generic (*=15 or 16), paste the files into those folders, restart you computer.

---

### Post by sdmtnbiker on 2007-07-06
did as you suggested, no luck, dosen't seem right you have to spend two days trying to install a driver so this will work.
any other ideas?
Thanks for what you have done so far.

---

### Post by sdmtnbiker on 2007-07-06
Have no idea what happened but it seems to be working!   Thanks for all your help

---

