---
title: "Setting up buttons on logitech mx400"
date: 2006-12-16
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2006-12-16
Hello.

So here are the buttons on my mx400:

Left, Middle (scrollwheel), Right, [ Back, Forward ] <-- on side, and the scrollwheel can also shift left and right, but thats very unimportant, as  I never use it.

Now, left, right and scrollbar **click** (for making/destroying tabs in ff for example) works fine.

Scrolling up acts as back and scrolling down acts as forward.

The back & forward buttons behave like left-click mouse button.


This is after I followed one of the guides in the wiki. One where you have to install imwheel I think.


Anywho, I can see that I'm almost there, which setting would you recommend changing to get everything working fine?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2006-12-18
Yo ~

---

### Post by brazzmonkey on 2006-12-25
ok, you're lucky i've just been offered the very same mouse for christmas !
setting extra mouse buttons has always been a pain in the ***, as usual when you need to tune your xorg.conf.

finally, googling around (i couldn't find any valuable info on these forums...), i found a few web pages (sometimes in some east-european language i don't know), and reading gentoo wiki, i got a working solution for the logitech mx400 extra mouse buttons.

first of all, check these links :
[http://www.abclinuxu.cz/hardware/vstupni-zarizeni/mysi/logitech/logitech-mx400?varianta=print](http://www.abclinuxu.cz/hardware/vstupni-zarizeni/mysi/logitech/logitech-mx400?varianta=print)
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse)

from these, i achieved a working configuration using the following :

- make sure these required programs or modules are installed : 
```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-evdev xmodmap imwheel
```
(you may want to install the lomoco utility as well)

- the corresponding section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf gives :```
Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "Configured Mouse"
  Driver "evdev"
  Option "Name" "Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
  option "CorePointer"
EndSection
```
you need to sudo to edit xorg.conf make sure you refer to the proper device (here : "Configured Mouse") in the screen section of xorg.conf
- then you need to configure xmodmap and imwheel. because i prefer system-wide settings, i've put the following in /etc/kde3/kdm/Xsetup (you need to sudo)
```
# re-map mouse buttons
xmodmap -e "pointer = 1 2 3 4 5 7 6 8 9"
imwheel
```
and, in /etc/X11/imwheel/imwheelrc (need to sudo as well), add the following at the very end of the file (i'm not sure it's required, but it doesn't hurt...)
```
".*"
None, Thumb1, Alt_L|Left
None, Thumb2, Alt_L|Right
```

for personal settings, create ~/.imwheelrc and edit the file as needed.

i hope this helps

---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2006-12-25
Thanks, but that stuffed up X11, such that it wouldn't even start.

Good thing I backed up xorg.conf!

Probably something I did, the "/etc/kde3/kdm/Xsetup" directory doesn't even exist on my comp, so I created it. I'm sure thats not the way it's meant to be.

---

### Post by brazzmonkey on 2006-12-25
well, you don't use kubuntu, do you ? that's why you don't have /etc/kde3 folder.
the idea being : execute xmodmap and imwheel when x starts (so for you this maybe means when gdm start for instance). look at gentoo wiki's article ([http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse#GDM_and_GNOME)](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse#GDM_and_GNOME)).
and for screwing xorg.conf, either you have done something wrong, or you may need to load evdev module at startup (i.e. add "evdev" - without quotes - to /etc/modules). what error did you get ? either post /var/log/Xorg.0.log, or log you in through command line, type "startx" and post the error.
posting your xorg.conf may help as well.
glad you had a backup !

---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2006-12-25
Well it has to be the stuff I changed in the xorg.conf, in the mouse part I assume.

Here's the log:
[http://starcraftmazter.net/logs/Xorg.0.log](http://starcraftmazter.net/logs/Xorg.0.log)

I tried to upload it to the forums, but it said invalid file :(

---

### Post by brazzmonkey on 2006-12-27
hi there, would you mind posting your xorg.conf, if you haven't already sorted it out.
in addition, i think xmodmap is no longer required (according to a thread i started on Archlinux forums). i'll investigate further and will let you know if there is a simpler way to get proper button mapping.

---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2006-12-27
I also forget to mention that the scrollwheel works btw, when I changed axismapping to original values, one of the guides was dead wrong on that one.

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"buttons"		"7"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by brazzmonkey on 2006-12-27
do you still have problems with your xorg.conf ?
here's mine
```

Section "Files"
  FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
  FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
  FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
  FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
  FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
  FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
  FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
  FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
  # path to defoma fonts
  FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
  Load "i2c"
  Load "bitmap"
  Load "ddc"
  Load "extmod"
  Load "freetype"
  Load "int10"
  Load "type1"
  Load "vbe"
  load "glx"
  load "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
  Driver "kbd"
  option "CoreKeyboard"
  option "XkbRules" "xorg"
  option "XkbModel" "pc105"
  option "XkbLayout" "fr"
  option "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "Configured Mouse"
  Driver "evdev"
  Option "Name" "Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
  Option "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option        "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
    Option        "SHMConfig" "on"
EndSection

Section "Device"
  identifier "NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
  boardname "NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series"
  busid "PCI:1:0:0"
  driver "nvidia"
  screen 0
  vendorname "NVIDIA"
  Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
  Option "NoLogo" "true"
#  Option "TripleBuffer" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
  identifier "Generic Monitor"
  vendorname "Generic"
  modelname "Flat Panel 1680x1050"
  HorizSync 31.5-90
  VertRefresh 60
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1024@60" 136.36 1600 1704 1872 2144 1024 1025 1028 1060 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1680x1050@60" 147.14 1680 1784 1968 2256 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync  modeline  "1920x1200@60" 193.16 1920 2048 2256 2592 1200 1201 1204 1242 -hsync +vsync
  gamma 1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
  Identifier "Default Screen"
  Device "NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
  Monitor "Generic Monitor"
  DefaultDepth 24
  SubSection "Display"
    depth 24
    modes "1680x1050@60" "1920x1200@60" "1600x1024@60" "1280x768@60" "800x600@60"
  EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
  Identifier "Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
  InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
  InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
  InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
  Mode 0666
EndSection
Section "device" # 
  identifier "device1"
  boardname "NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series"
  busid "PCI:1:0:0"
  driver "nvidia"
  screen 1
  vendorname "NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
  identifier "screen1"
  device "device1"
  defaultdepth 24
  monitor "monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
  identifier "monitor1"
  gamma 1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

```
make sure evdev is installed and evdev module is loaded before starting x (sudo modprobe evdev, or add "evdev" without quotes to /etc/modules).
i couldn't find a way to get rid of xmodmap because right/left wheel buttons for horizontal scrolling are mapped the other way around, no matter what i tried. but it's a matter of taste.
post any error you get. better yet, login in console, and try startx. if it doesn't work you should be able to read some useful info.

*edit* (removed some useless info)
oh, and btw if you have problems posting long outputs, use the "code" tag.

---

### Post by louisgag on 2007-01-06
HI!

I am on ubuntu 6.10 Edgy, and I have configured my logitech MX400 mouse as best as I could and my result is that all buttons are recognised, but there is no application that uses them all! Even firefox does not do the horizontal scrolling, which I hoped it would do.

Heres my xorg.conf section on the mouse.

```


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option "Buttons" "9"
	Option "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7 8 9"
EndSection


```


is anyone aware of how to map mouse buttons to scripts in gnome?


edit: I modified my xorg.conf and got evdev working, I still need to map my buttons appropriately, I guess imwheel will do that...


```

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"evdev"
	Option		"CorePointer"
#	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
#	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5 7 6"
#	Option "WHEELRelativeAxisButtons" "4 5"
#	Option "HWHEELRelativeAxisButtons" "7 6"
#Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
#	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
#	Option "Buttons" "9"
#	Option "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 7 6 8 9"
	Option "Name" "Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
	Option "Resolution" "800"
EndSection

```

or

```

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"evdev"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option "Name" "Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
	Option "Resolution" "800"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2007-01-07
Stuff horizonal scrolling, I never even use it.

I just want my back and forward buttons so badly :(

---

### Post by brazzmonkey on 2007-01-08
use imwheel

---

### Post by po0f on 2007-01-08
Starcraftmazter,

Does [this](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=219894) HOWTO not work for you?  It doesn't mention the MX400, but I would assume it works.

---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2007-01-08
imwheel didn't do squat.

Po0f, that guide looks long, and I'm not up for it now, I have have too much on my to-do list.

Why can't someone make a perl script to make all the changes or something, I don't get it.

---

### Post by louisgag on 2007-01-11
Ok, I got my MX400 working perfectly.

my xorg.conf

```

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"evdev"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option "Name" "Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
	Option "Resolution" "800"
EndSection

```

then I did: sudo apt-get install xvkbd xbindkeys
and edited: gedit ~/.xbindkeysrc
as such
```

"/usr/bin/xvkbd -xsendevent -text "\[Alt_L]\[Left]""
  m:0x0 + b:8
"/usr/bin/xvkbd -xsendevent -text "\[Alt_L]\[Right]""
  m:0x0 + b:9

```

then 
"Now it's working open up the gnome sessions settings "System > Preferences > Sessions" click on the "Startup Programs" tab, click "Add" and enter "xbindkeys". This makes sure it's run each time you log in, you should probably test it by logging out and back in now. If you aren't running GNOME, you will need to do it another way, e.g. in XFCE, go to Xfce Menu -> Settings -> Autostarted Applications."
or run xbindkeys everytime you need the buttons.


for more info see: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=219894](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=219894)

---

### Post by Starcraftmazter on 2007-01-11
Does that make the forward and back buttons work?

---

### Post by louisgag on 2007-01-11
YES!! (The xbindkeys package does) But you need evdev also since mouse does not recognize enough buttons! 

And the fun thing is that you can map any key combination to the buttons!

---

### Post by perceptual_set on 2007-05-07
> **louisgag said:**
> Ok, I got my MX400 working perfectly...

I've done everythign in your directions and the directions you linked to and it still isn't working.:confused:

---

### Post by louisgag on 2007-05-07
What exactly isn't working, the extra buttons or the mouse?

Can you post your xorg.conf file?

Do you have an mx400?


:shock::shock::shock:

---

### Post by DannyW on 2007-06-01
After setting the driver to evdev and executing the following my side buttons work as forward and back buttons in firefox only. No need for imwheel or xbindkeys.

```
$ xmodmap -e "pointer = 1 2 3 4 5 8 9 6 7"
Warning: Only changing the first 9 of 12 buttons.
```

After a quick play with xmodmap with different pointer settings it seems the numbers represent buttons and the order in which the numbers are determines what the button does.

For mx400:

1=left
2=middle
3=right
4=wheelup
5=wheeldown
6=tiltright
7=tiltleft
8=sideback
9=sideforward

(Note: By sideback I mean the side button which is closest to the back of the mouse, this is the button I like to travel back and forward in firefox.)

I noticed that after switching the driver to evdev the mouse wheel tilt buttons worked in firefox as back/forward buttons (but in the wrong order).

So I switched 6 and 7 with 8 and 9, respectively:
i.e. instead of:
xmodmap -e "pointer = 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9" (The default)
do
xmodmap -e "pointer = 1 2 3 4 5 8 9 6 7"

Try it, there is no need for restarting the xserver; the mouse changes happen immediately. If you mess up the mouse while experimenting just execute:
xmodmap -e "pointer = 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9"


Anyone have any ideas why this would work for firefox but not konqueror?

Cheers,
Danny

---

### Post by louisgag on 2007-06-10
> **louisgag said:**
> Ok, I got my MX400 working perfectly.

my xorg.conf

```

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"evdev"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option "Name" "Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
	Option "Resolution" "800"
EndSection

```

then I did: sudo apt-get install xvkbd xbindkeys
and edited: gedit ~/.xbindkeysrc
as such
```

"/usr/bin/xvkbd -xsendevent -text "\[Alt_L]\[Left]""
  m:0x0 + b:8
"/usr/bin/xvkbd -xsendevent -text "\[Alt_L]\[Right]""
  m:0x0 + b:9

```
SEE WARINING BELOW!!!


then 
"Now it's working open up the gnome sessions settings "System > Preferences > Sessions" click on the "Startup Programs" tab, click "Add" and enter "xbindkeys". This makes sure it's run each time you log in, you should probably test it by logging out and back in now. If you aren't running GNOME, you will need to do it another way, e.g. in XFCE, go to Xfce Menu -> Settings -> Autostarted Applications."
or run xbindkeys everytime you need the buttons.


for more info see: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=219894](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=219894)

[SIZE="5"]**[COLOR="Red"]Make sure Left and Right have capital L & R because in the new versions xvkbd they need to be.[/COLOR]**[/SIZE]

;)

---

### Post by ydiaz on 2007-06-28
Hi guys,

I also have an MX400 I'd like to tune, specially the middle mouse click which is essential for me.

I'm on Feisty Fawn and can't get X to start when specifying "evdev" in the mouse section of my xorg.conf. 

Here are my xorg.conf and the log when trying to start it. I can't see any errors, seems as evdev loads correctly and the output of "sudo modprobe -l | grep evdev" is:

/lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/kernel/drivers/input/evdev.ko

Come to think of it I'm not sure if evdev is what I need, I use the middle mouse button a lot because I use Maya, but in the MX400 is kind of tough to nail it, most of the time I move the whell mouse sideways which doesn't really do anything. In Windoze I just mapped this buttons (6 and 7 I believe) to the middle click so I couldn't get it wrong. I've tried using the Button Mapping option in xorg.conf but no luck so far, this is what I have now:

> Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "Buttons" "9"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 2 2 2 2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection


I know, all those 2s are a bit exaggerated but I just wanted to make sure... Any ideas? Thanks!

---

### Post by louisgag on 2007-06-28
I'm probably redundant here, but is evdev properly installed? (Seems so in your xorg log, but you never know...)

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-evdev

and, is the mouse plugged in the USB, and not serial port?

(and is the USB enabled on your motherboard)

---

### Post by ydiaz on 2007-06-29
I managed to get the mouse working using this HOWTO 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=65471](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=65471)

everything worked perfectly. Although I'm still having some issues trying to press the middle mouse button I can now use .Xmodmap to assign its functionality to another button.

Anyway, thanks for the reply. ;)

---

