---
title: "[HELP] screen resolution keeps reverting back to 800x600 (ubuntu ultimate 7.10)"
date: 2008-01-03
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by whiskey29 on 2008-01-03
I managed to set the monitor correctly so the gnome can use 1280x1024@85.
I also managed to install the nvidia driver (download from nvidia web), at least the compiz fusion run jsut fine.

How ever, after rebooting, the screen resolution always revert to original value and the setting I made previously in xorg.conf are gone, and replaced with autogenerated modeline.

so what I did was, dpkg-reconfigure -low xserver-xorg, then I add modeline value for 1280-1024 @ 85,
I used the value generated through the terminal. everthing works until reboot.

Can anyone suggest anything ? 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by whiskey29 on 2008-01-04
Ok so here are the detail of what I have achieved so far.
I installed nvidia driver I downloaded from nvidia website earlier
I dpkg-reconfigure -plow xserver-xorg. Selected all the resolution I want, then I specify monitor Hz ranges. With the Nvidia driver I choose NV not nvidia

Then i add modeline generated from gtf
and I also add mode "1280x1024_85" in the subsection of display.

Then in xserver, I set the system > preference > screen resolution and I got 1280*1024 but the refresh rate is not 85. it was 75 I think. It works fine, but compiz fusion does not. So that's mean 3D is disabled.

Then in xorg.conf I change "nv" to "nvidia", tadaaa compiz fusion works, but now the screen seolution can only go 1280x1024 at 60hz.

---

