---
title: "7.10 on Fujitsu Amilo Pro V3515"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by rashaba on 2007-10-24
I had 7.04 running on a crappy Fujitsu Siemens Amilo V3515 running and got most things running that I need. Now with 7.10 most things stopped working, except from sound and my VESA configuration that I saved before I did a clean install of 7.10.
7.10 has a lot of issues with the VIA Unichrome Chipset. Now in this release even text mode doesn't work any more. The settings that I would consider safe (e.g. vga=771) don't work.

Does anyone know a mode that would work with this now unsupported graphics chipset?

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by LowMemory on 2007-11-11
Hello,

I am having trouble also on Amilo Pro v3515 and the display !

It seems there's a known bug on video memory management (see [http://wiki.openchrome.org/pipermail/openchrome-users/2007-October/003636.html](http://wiki.openchrome.org/pipermail/openchrome-users/2007-October/003636.html) ).

For now, I am a little confused between driver to use:
the driver present after an installation is: xserver-xorg-video-via
But there are also 2 others drivers:
xserver-xorg-video-openchrome
and
xserver-xorg-video-unichrome

Do you know which one should be used on this laptop ?

---

### Post by santoxyz on 2007-11-26
i use 2d (vis_drv.so) driver 72c from viaarena and kernel 2.6.20-15 with patched DSDT (to stop fan when the cpu is cold).
the driver is crappy and you have no support for 3d and media player Xv freezes at exit; but shm goes well.

---

### Post by santoxyz on 2007-12-31
i switched to openchrome and i heavily suggest to use it!!
but compile the last svn from source (things change very speedy); do not use the one from repositories!

---

