---
title: "ATI card not properly installed"
date: 2005-10-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by megashake on 2005-10-11
Hi,

Perhaps I should be in the Laptop thread but anyway here goes..

I'm running Kernel 2.6.12-9-386 on Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo A1630 with AMD athlon 64 & ATI Mobility Radeon 9700. When I try to access the ATI Control Panel I get a "FireGL X11 extensions" error so I guess something's missing.

I have downloaded and installed the ATI drivers plus other installers available here..
[https://support.ati.com/ics/support/default.asp?deptID=894&task=knowledge&folderID=27](https://support.ati.com/ics/support/default.asp?deptID=894&task=knowledge&folderID=27)

I haven't been playing any games in ubuntu but notice that when the screensaver becomes active the machine gets very busy, these AMD 64 systems do anyway but am I correct in thinking that 3D isn't correctly installed so the screensaver is being generated by the CPU and not the graphics card or am I missing the point? 

How do I verify if 3D is actually installed?

I've been reading up a bit and it seems that should use flgrx (not sure what that is) instead of the ATI drivers, any help/suggestions :confused:

---

### Post by linhgb on 2005-10-11
First thing is ATI control panel sucks and screws things up (esp my dual monitor setup!) so don't use it.

Second thing is, get the driver off ATI website, run it and then check the log (/usr/share/fglrx/fglrx-install.log) to see what's wrong or if it's done successfully. That should give you a clue about the problems.

Third thing: run 
# glxinfo 

should tell you whether direct rendering (3D) is enabled.

# glxgears or fglrxgears to test it.

Other things to try: run "dmesg | grep fglrx" 
or check the X.org log at /var/log/Xorg.0.log and see when it starts loading the driver. Should tell you what happened.

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-10-11
>  AMD athlon 64 & ATI Mobility Radeon 9700. When I try to access the ATI Control Panel I get a "FireGL X11 extensions" error so I guess something's missing.


I have a similar laptop.  Take a look at the first part of my [how-to]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=348911") about installing the included drivers.  Let me know if you have any questions.

---

