---
title: "CD/DVD drive cannot mount"
date: 2007-04-25
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by NotoriousTF on 2007-04-25
Hey!
Yesterday the CD in my laptop drive decided to start acting up on me. It had been working the previous day, and is still working in XP, so the drive isn't faulty (I presume). Every time I insert a CD this error message pops-up:

> **Cannot mount volume.**
Unable to mount the volume.
>Details
[mntent]: line 10 in /etc/fstab is bad
mount: can't find /media/cdrom0 in etc/fstab or etc/mtab

Here is what my fstab file contains:
> 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda5
UUID=f18dcf57-caad-4ad9-8466-c45e70f95505 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda1
# /dev/hda3
UUID=409d27e8-e9dd-4722-a2fd-2c8161472980 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/cdrom        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

Anyone out there able to shed some light on the situation? I had just set up wine for the first time and was about to try out Football Manager '07 when the problem came up. I've looked around the forums already (and posted in the General Help forum, which wasn't replied to so I thought I'd try again! :) ).

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by NotoriousTF on 2007-04-25
Ok after toying around with the fstab file I sorted out the problem. I simply altered this line in the  fstab file: 
> /dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0#

and replaced it with:
> /dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

I've no idea what the significance of what I changed means, but it all worked!

---

