---
title: "Trouble getting widescreen resolution 1440x900"
date: 2006-10-19
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by remick182 on 2006-10-19
Okay, it seems as though this is not the newest issue, as I have run across many forums of this topic on many different linux websites.  I cannot figure my problem out, and by following previously posted steps, everything *should* fall right into place...but it's not.  Here's my situation:

I've had this eMachine (I know, I know) for almost 2 years now.  It's worked great for me, though.  I just recently bought a 19" widescreen Samsung SyncMaster 940BW LCD monitor and a 128 mb nvidia 3dfuzion PCI graphics card to upgrade from my onboard video card.

I got everything setup under Windows XP just fine in, like, 20 minutes (I was actually kind of surprised).  I had Dapper installed on another partion of my hard drive.  Once I booted up Linux, I got the X server error.  (I believed that Linux still had my onboard video card listed in the xorg.conf file, and found out later I was right).

I couldn't remember how to edit my xorg.conf file at the time because I hadn't used Linux in quite a few months, so I reinstalled Ubuntu from a Breezy 5.10 cd I had lying around.  I think I still had the X server error upon reboot and I looked up what was wrong under Windows.  I found out how to lookup my PCI devices using lspci and corrected my xorg.conf.  I also found my Horz and Vert refresh rates, modeline, and used Automatix to update codecs and nvidia drivers.  Now my xorg.conf looks like this:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"    [COLOR="Red"]<-Manual change[/COLOR]
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0" [COLOR="Red"]<-Manual change[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	VendorName	"Samsung"           [COLOR="Red"]<-Manual change[/COLOR]
	ModelName	"SyncMaster 940BW"  [COLOR="Red"]<-Manual change[/COLOR]
	HorizSync	25-100              [COLOR="Red"]<-Manual change[/COLOR]
	VertRefresh	30-90               [COLOR="Red"]<-Manual change[/COLOR]
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline "1440x900@60" 108.84 1440 1472 1880 1912 900 918 927 946
EndSection                                  [COLOR="Red"]<-Manual change[/COLOR]

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1440x900" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1440x900" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1440x900" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1440x900" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1440x900" "1440x864" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900" "1400x800" "1220x768" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Now, here's the problem.  I can select 1440x900, but it looks like crap.  If I use 24 bit color depth, I can't see the bottom task bar, and everything looks blurry and unrefined.  If I use 16 bit color depth, I can pretty much get the entire screen to fit, but the color detail sucks, and I watch a lot of movies under linux.

I've tried different Modelines from different websites, I've played around with my monitor's horz and vert scaling, and I've tried using xvidtune as well.  Nothing works.  There has got to be a way to fix this.  I'm not going to let Windows win this fight!

---

### Post by electricshoes on 2006-10-19
What process did you use to install your Nvidia driver ?

---

### Post by remick182 on 2006-10-19
[FONT="Arial"][SIZE="2"]I used Automatix to install the latest nvidia drivers.  I don't know if it really is or not.  All I know is that after downloading the files, a seperate window pops up for Automatix and tells me that it couldn't change my xorg.conf file and that it recommends that I manually change the "Driver" from "nv" to "nvidia".  After doing this and Alt-Ctrl-Backspace I get the nvidia splash screen, but my 1440x900 is too big for my screen and it looks blurry.

I changed my xorg.conf file to 16 bit color scheme and changed the driver back to "nv" from "nvidia" and my resolution is fine.  I just would like the better colour depth.[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by electricshoes on 2006-10-20
Try this.

Make sure you have universe and multiverse enabled in yer sources.list

```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx nvidia-kernel-common
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx nvidia-kernel-common
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
```If it gives you the error error change nv to nvidia like you did before.
Also while your in there add 1440x900 to all of the modes.
make sure the color depth is 24.

I have a Viewsonic 1912wb and this is what i do for the 1440x900 nvidia.

Restart x - or better yet reboot.

Here is a copy of my xorg.conf

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon May 15 13:23:42 PDT 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

    # path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load       "dri"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
    Load           "dbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc104"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "VA1912wSERIE"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Monitor        "VA1912wSERIE"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```

---

### Post by electricshoes on 2006-10-20
Try changing your xorg settings to this.

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	      "SyncMaster"
	HorizSync 	30.0 - 82.0
	VertRefresh 	50.0 - 85.0
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline 	"1440x900_70.00" 126.98 1440 1536 1688 1936 900 901 904 937 -HSync +Vsync
	Modeline 	"1440x900_60.00" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -HSync +Vsync
	DisplaySize 	1440 900
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	      "Default Screen"
	Device	      "what every your device detection is"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
       SubSection            "Display"
	Depth		24
	Modes		"1440x900_70.00" "1440x900_60.00"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Azathoth_ on 2006-10-21
How you solutionated this?? I have the same problem with the last nvidia drivers (beta) and with the two installation (with apt-get and compiling this) No widescreen resolution is available

---

### Post by karthikp on 2006-10-21
I know it's probably not going to work miracles, but how about letting the comp edit the xorg.conf file? Just do,

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by electricshoes on 2006-10-21
> **Azathoth_ said:**
> How you solutionated this?? I have the same problem with the last nvidia drivers (beta) and with the two installation (with apt-get and compiling this) No widescreen resolution is available

I havnt been able to get 1440x900 with the Nvidia beta driver. The current non-beta driver in Dapper automatically picks up the widescreen resolution. In edgy I have to force it with the modes that I posted above. But I have had no luck with the beta driver.

---

### Post by remick182 on 2006-10-21
Well, I've got it working now.  I kept getting close, but it wasn't perfect looking, so I decided to upgrade from Breezy to Dapper.  Once it was done and I rebooted, it came up instantly looking great!  I looked at my xorg.conf file and it must have appropriately updated my nvidia drivers and properly positioned my screen.  I had to manually tweak it over to the left a bit from my monitor's built in adjusments because auto adjust was shifting my screen over to the right about 50 pixels, but now it looks great, AND it's back to 24 bit colour depth!  This is a relief.:)

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by electricshoes on 2006-10-21
Glad to hear you got it fixed, dapper auto detects widescreen for me also.

---

### Post by Azathoth_ on 2006-10-22
Widescreen in dapper is ok (i had it a lot of time) but in edgy with this new beta drivers is broken :(

---

### Post by Azathoth_ on 2006-10-22
In beta drivers there is no solution. I have sent an e-mail to nvidia for supporting.
Bye

---

### Post by Azathoth_ on 2006-10-22
[B]Well, finally there is a solution.
Add this to Section "Device" of your xor.conf
    Option	   "ModeValidation" "NoEdidDFPMaxSizeCheck"
And restart your X and type in a terminal nvidia-settings
You can now set up your native reolution in a widescreen
Bye[/B]

---

### Post by electricshoes on 2006-10-22
GREAT! Thanks, il try this today.

---

### Post by thojoh on 2006-10-29
> **remick182 said:**
> Well, I've got it working now.  I kept getting close, but it wasn't perfect looking, so I decided to upgrade from Breezy to Dapper.  Once it was done and I rebooted, it came up instantly looking great!  I looked at my xorg.conf file and it must have appropriately updated my nvidia drivers and properly positioned my screen.  I had to manually tweak it over to the left a bit from my monitor's built in adjusments because auto adjust was shifting my screen over to the right about 50 pixels, but now it looks great, AND it's back to 24 bit colour depth!  This is a relief.:)

Thanks for your help!


Hi remick, can you post your new xorg-file?

I have the same monitor as you, a Samsung 940BW and I use Dapper, but I haven't gotten the right tweak yet. I can make it work on different resolution, also force 1440x900, but then, indeed, the lower bar is out of screen and all text looks blurry. You say it came up automatically right after you installed Dapper?

So maybe I messed too much with my xorg file and have simply to reset it... ?  Well, I will try that. But if you post your xorg-file that works for you now, that might be helpful as we a have the same monitor.

Thanks!   :D

---

### Post by thojoh on 2006-10-29
> **electricshoes said:**
> Try changing your xorg settings to this.

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	      "SyncMaster"
	HorizSync 	30.0 - 82.0
	VertRefresh 	50.0 - 85.0
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline 	"1440x900_70.00" 126.98 1440 1536 1688 1936 900 901 904 937 -HSync +Vsync
	Modeline 	"1440x900_60.00" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -HSync +Vsync
	DisplaySize 	1440 900
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	      "Default Screen"
	Device	      "what every your device detection is"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
       SubSection            "Display"
	Depth		24
	Modes		"1440x900_70.00" "1440x900_60.00"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```



Hi electricshoes,


I tried your xorg-file and my computer accepts it fine, but the main problem is not solved: under 1440x900, the lower taskbar is not visible. (and the fonts still look blurry, I don't know if that is the same or a seperate problem, but for the moment I am focussing on being able to see the WHOLE screen under 1440x900)

Does anybody else have an idea?

My xorg Section looks now exactly like in the above quote (except that I filled in my "GeForce 6200SE" card where you specified).

What I find curious on this topic is that the way that photos are displayed works so well, while the fonts look blurry and part of the screen is not visible. I don't know how it works exactly, but to some extent the system communicates very well with the 1440x900 resolution, and on some aspects it does not. 

anyway, I am trying to keep it up :rolleyes: 

thomas

---

### Post by thojoh on 2006-10-29
and another simple question to remick, as you have the same monitor:

On the monitor setup of my Samsung 940BW (the on-screen menu) I cannot find an option that adjust the overall size of the image. I can only change the V- and H- position, but not make the whole image smaller or bigger (which I used to be able to do on my old monitor).

Is there no such option, or am I just too dumb to find it?

thomas

---

### Post by thojoh on 2006-10-29
:KS   Yes, it is working!   :KS 

But I do not know why exactly.

I used the xorg configuration that electricshoes provided (see above posts) and at first, it didn't solve my problem, but after another restart, now it all looks fine. Great font resolution, all of the screen is visible.

For any other people searching maybe this is helpful to you:

I am running an ACER Aspire Computer on a Samsung 940BW Monitor with GeForce 6200SE Video Card. (don't know if that is important)

This is now my xorg-file (inspired by electricshoes' suggestion): 

N.B.: With me, the Samsung 940BW has to run on 60Hz, if 1440x900 has to be projected correctly on the screen (this is also the recommended property by Samsung, so likely that this is a general thing), so the only thing I had to change later was putting the "1440x900_60.00" Modeline before the "1440x900_70.00" Modeline ( and the same thing with "Modes" in the Section "Device" ), so that by default, ubuntu would use 60Hz when starting up.

If it is not working, check if your resolution is on 60Hz, not 70.
 

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6200?]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	HorizSync 	30.0 - 82.0
	VertRefresh 	50.0 - 85.0
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline 	"1440x900_60.00" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -HSync +Vsync
	Modeline 	"1440x900_70.00" 126.98 1440 1536 1688 1936 900 901 904 937 -HSync +Vsync
	DisplaySize 	1440 900
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	      "Default Screen"
	Device	      "NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6200?]"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
       SubSection            "Display"
	Depth		24
	Modes		"1440x900_60.00" "1440x900_70.00" 
	EndSubSection
EndSection



It looks great, now. I had a week of dispair, but finally it seems no problem to run this Samsung widescreen on Ubuntu Dapper with a great, crisp image!

all the best!

---

### Post by JayTee on 2006-10-29
> **Azathoth_ said:**
> [B]Well, finally there is a solution.
Add this to Section "Device" of your xor.conf
    Option	   "ModeValidation" "NoEdidDFPMaxSizeCheck"
And restart your X and type in a terminal nvidia-settings
You can now set up your native reolution in a widescreen
Bye[/B]

Adding this, doing a complete reboot and not a Ctrl-Alt-Backspace and then changing my refresh rate to 60hz seems to have fixed my problem. Then I just had to fine tune the monitor controls. Awesome!!!!!!!!! Thanks so much.

---

### Post by ferg on 2006-12-03
Works for me too! :) I also have a Samsung SyncMaster 940BW... this is a great thread thanks everyone! :cool:

---

### Post by one_stinky_bum on 2007-01-14
3 days and 3 nights, still no 1440x900 resolution on my Samsung 941BW and Intel 845G. I wanted to be macho and all, no sleep till I figure it out. Alas, I have failed.

I have patched mode 50 with 915resolution to give me 1440x900, as shown in the output below:
```
macho@ubuntu:~$ sudo 915resolution -l
Intel 800/900 Series VBIOS Hack : version 0.5.2

Chipset: 845G
BIOS: TYPE 3
Mode Table Offset: $C0000 + $4d2
Mode Table Entries: 25
... other modes...
Mode 50 : 1440x900, 32 bits/pixel
... more modes...

```

Here are the relevant parts of my xorg.conf file:

```
Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	64000
	Option  "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
#	Option "ForceBIOS" "1024x768=1440x900"  
#       another thread recommended ForceBIOS, didn't work for me
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
#        Option          "DDC" "false"  <-- another thread recommended this, didn't work for me
    	HorizSync 	30.0 - 82.0
	VertRefresh 	50.0 - 85.0
  	Modeline 	"1440x900_60.00"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync +Vsync
	DisplaySize 	1440 900	
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24

	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes	"1440x900_60.00"
#		Virtual     1440 900  <-- another thread recommended this, didn't work for me.
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

```

Someone please save me. Thanks.

---

### Post by thegrayarea on 2007-01-27
> **karthikp said:**
> I know it's probably not going to work miracles, but how about letting the comp edit the xorg.conf file? Just do,

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Hope this helps.

this helped me on my system, thanks for the suggestion.

---

### Post by Darrol on 2007-02-06
> **electricshoes said:**
> Try changing your xorg settings to this.

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	      "SyncMaster"
	HorizSync 	30.0 - 82.0
	VertRefresh 	50.0 - 85.0
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline 	"1440x900_70.00" 126.98 1440 1536 1688 1936 900 901 904 937 -HSync +Vsync
	Modeline 	"1440x900_60.00" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -HSync +Vsync
	DisplaySize 	1440 900
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	      "Default Screen"
	Device	      "what every your device detection is"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
       SubSection            "Display"
	Depth		24
	Modes		"1440x900_70.00" "1440x900_60.00"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

just wanted to thank you. These settings are working perfectly on my 940bw.

---

### Post by deew on 2007-04-15
The "Modeline 1440x900_60" posted by electricshoes worked for me.
Thanks  :D 
The "DisplaySize 1440 900" made the picture fit the monitor when logged in.  However, I had wee little tiny text on the GDM login window.  Found a formula on another forum to calculate display size: pixels/96*25.4.  So, changed to "DisplaySize 381 238".  Edgy, ATI 9200, Samsung 940bw

---

### Post by thinketch on 2007-04-16
Thank you. I am using Debian Etch PPC on my G4. Text looks so much clearer and the bottom of the screen is not cut off anymore. I have a samsung syncmaster 906bw. I am going to try Ubuntu next.

cheers!

my xorg.conf:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Rage 128 PF/PRO AGP 4x TMDS"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:0:16:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"Dpms"
	HorizSync	30-81
	VertRefresh	56-75
	Modeline 	"1440x900_60.00" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -HSync +Vsync
	Displaysize	410 256
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Rage 128 PF/PRO AGP 4x TMDS"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24

	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
 	SubSection            "Display"
	Depth		24
	Modes		"1440x900_70.00" "1440x900_60.00"
	EndSubSection
	
	
#	SubSection "Display"
	#	Depth		24
	#	Modes		"1440x900"
#	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-04-23
> **deew said:**
> The "Modeline 1440x900_60" posted by electricshoes worked for me.
.......

You can generate your own Modeline data with the **gtf** utility to suit whatever your screen can support, an example is here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370204](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370204)

---

### Post by jehosephat on 2007-05-12
After a lot of forum searching and experimenting, I've finally got my widescreen LCD displaying correctly, so I'd like to pass that on.  I just upgraded to Feisty, and I've got a ATI Radeon Mobility M7 LW (Mobility 7500) and a Samsung SyncMaster 941BW.  I've downloaded the fglrx driver following [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide"), although I don't think I'm using it, because I've got "ati" instead of "fglrx" in my xorg.conf ... (?)  In any case, I also modified my xorg.conf to include a new modeline for 1440x900 with numbers I gleaned from /var/log/Xorg.0.log with the help of a post on another thread (sorry, can't remember where, but many posts list modeline generators).  That post also suggested turning off DDC, which I did (see the commented-out line in my xorg.conf).  However, this didn't immediately get me the option of 1440x900 res.  That seemed to appear finally after using "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" and entering the exact horizontal sync and vert refresh ranges for my monitor (also gleaned from /var/log/Xorg.0.log).  But I still had the maddening problem that others have mentioned, that the bottom of my desktop was about 50 pixels below the bottom of my screen, and the screen was obviously stretched as a result.  After a bunch of experimenting, this finally disappeared after commenting out the line in my xorg.conf in which I had turned off DDC.

So, I sure don't know the why's and how's, but hopefully this will help someone.  Here're the relevant sections of my xorg.conf:


[B]*edit:*
OK, with a completely fresh install of feisty, with the same hardware (except for a new, non-smoking hard drive!), all I had to do was download and configure the fglrx driver (as above), and run sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg to add 1400x900 ... [/B]


> 
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Samsung SyncMaster 941BW"
	Option		"DPMS"
        DisplaySize     410 257
	HorizSync	30-81
	VertRefresh	56-75
#        Option          "DDC" "false"
        Modeline        "1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Monitor		"Samsung SyncMaster 941BW"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1440x900" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1440x900" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1440x900" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1440x900" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1440x900" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by DoctorMO on 2007-05-21
It seems the fuzzy screen + missing bottom bar was due to the settings being set to 1024x768 instead of 1440x900 using nvidia-settings I was able to resize the screen and everything looks sharp.

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2007-06-09
I have the same problem with a Samsung SyncMaster 920NW and an onboard ProSavage graphics card.  I've tried everything in this thread, as well as some suggestions on other forums and threads, but still no luck.  Here is the relevant section from xorg.conf.  The commented out lines are various things I've tried, mostly on the suggestion of this and other threads.

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ProSavage8 GFX"
	Driver		"savage"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
#	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Samsung SyncMaster 920NW"
	Option		"DPMS"
#	DisplaySize 410.4 256.5
#	DisplaySize 381 238
	#DisplaySize 1440 900
	Option		"DDC" "false"
	HorizSync	30-81
	VertRefresh	56-75
        Modeline "1440x900@60"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync +Vsync
	#Modeline "1440x900@75"  136.49  1440 1536 1688 1936  900 901 904 940  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ProSavage8 GFX"
	Monitor		"Samsung SyncMaster 920NW"
	DefaultDepth	24
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth		16
#		Modes		"1440x900" "1440x900@60" "1440x900@75"
#	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900@60" "1440x900" "1440x900@75"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```
This is an extract from the Xorg.0.log file:
```

(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(II) Loading sub module "vgahw"
(II) LoadModule: "vgahw"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libvgahw.so
(II) Module vgahw: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 7.2.0, module version = 0.1.0
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 1.1
(**) SAVAGE(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) SAVAGE(0): RGB weight 888
(==) SAVAGE(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(II) SAVAGE(0): vgaHWGetIOBase: hwp->IOBase is 0x03d0, hwp->PIOOffset is 0x0000
(==) SAVAGE(0): Using XAA acceleration architecture
(==) SAVAGE(0): Using HW cursor
(==) SAVAGE(0): Using video BIOS to set modes
(II) Loading sub module "vbe"
(II) LoadModule: "vbe"
(II) Reloading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libvbe.so
(II) Loading sub module "int10"
(II) LoadModule: "int10"
(II) Reloading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libint10.so
(II) SAVAGE(0): initializing int10
(II) Loading sub module "vm86"
(II) LoadModule: "vm86"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libvm86.so
(II) Module vm86: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 7.2.0, module version = 1.0.0
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 1.1
(II) SAVAGE(0): Primary V_BIOS segment is: 0xc000
(II) SAVAGE(0): VESA BIOS detected
(II) SAVAGE(0): VESA VBE Version 3.0
(II) SAVAGE(0): VESA VBE Total Mem: 31680 kB
(II) SAVAGE(0): VESA VBE OEM: S3 Graphics ProSavage DDR Family BIOS
(II) SAVAGE(0): VESA VBE OEM Software Rev: 2.0
(II) SAVAGE(0): VESA VBE OEM Vendor: S3 Garphics Incorporated.
(II) SAVAGE(0): VESA VBE OEM Product: VBE 3.0
(II) SAVAGE(0): VESA VBE OEM Product Rev: Rev 0.0
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chip: id 8d04, "ProSavage DDR-K"
(--) SAVAGE(0): Engine: "ProSavageDDR"
(--) SAVAGE(0): AGP card detected
(==) SAVAGE(0): Using AGP DMA
(==) SAVAGE(0): Will try command and vertex DMA mode
(==) SAVAGE(0): Using AGP 1x mode
(==) SAVAGE(0): Using 16 MB AGP aperture
(==) SAVAGE(0): Write-combining range (0xe0000000,0x8000000)
(==) SAVAGE(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(--) SAVAGE(0): probed videoram:  32768k
(II) Loading sub module "ddc"
(II) LoadModule: "ddc"
(II) Reloading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libddc.so
(--) SAVAGE(0): No DDC signal
(II) Loading sub module "i2c"
(II) LoadModule: "i2c"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libi2c.so
(II) Module i2c: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 7.2.0, module version = 1.2.0
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 1.1
(II) SAVAGE(0): I2C bus "I2C bus" initialized.
(II) SAVAGE(0): I2C device "I2C bus:ddc2" registered at address 0xA0.
(II) SAVAGE(0): I2C device "I2C bus:ddc2" removed.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Manufacturer: SAM  Model: 2ad  Serial#: 1212231993
(II) SAVAGE(0): Year: 2007  Week: 10
(II) SAVAGE(0): EDID Version: 1.3
(II) SAVAGE(0): Analog Display Input,  Input Voltage Level: 0.700/0.700 V
(II) SAVAGE(0): Sync:  Separate  Composite
(II) SAVAGE(0): Max H-Image Size [cm]: horiz.: 41  vert.: 27
(II) SAVAGE(0): Gamma: 2.20
(II) SAVAGE(0): DPMS capabilities: Off; RGB/Color Display
(II) SAVAGE(0): First detailed timing is preferred mode
(II) SAVAGE(0): redX: 0.640 redY: 0.349   greenX: 0.284 greenY: 0.617
(II) SAVAGE(0): blueX: 0.142 blueY: 0.067   whiteX: 0.313 whiteY: 0.329
(II) SAVAGE(0): Supported VESA Video Modes:
(II) SAVAGE(0): 720x400@70Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 640x480@60Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 640x480@67Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 640x480@72Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 640x480@75Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 800x600@56Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 800x600@60Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 800x600@72Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 800x600@75Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 832x624@75Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 1024x768@60Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 1024x768@70Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 1024x768@75Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 1280x1024@75Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): 1152x870@75Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Manufacturer's mask: 0
(II) SAVAGE(0): Supported Future Video Modes:
(II) SAVAGE(0): #0: hsize: 1280  vsize 1024  refresh: 60  vid: 32897
(II) SAVAGE(0): #1: hsize: 1152  vsize 864  refresh: 75  vid: 20337
(II) SAVAGE(0): #2: hsize: 1280  vsize 960  refresh: 60  vid: 16513
(II) SAVAGE(0): Supported additional Video Mode:
(II) SAVAGE(0): clock: 106.5 MHz   Image Size:  410 x 257 mm
(II) SAVAGE(0): h_active: 1440  h_sync: 1520  h_sync_end 1672 h_blank_end 1904 h_border: 0
(II) SAVAGE(0): v_active: 900  v_sync: 903  v_sync_end 909 v_blanking: 934 v_border: 0
(II) SAVAGE(0): Ranges: V min: 56  V max: 75 Hz, H min: 30  H max: 81 kHz, PixClock max 140 MHz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Monitor name: SyncMaster
(II) SAVAGE(0): Serial No: H9FM200060
(II) SAVAGE(0): EDID (in hex):
(II) SAVAGE(0): 	00ffffffffffff004c2dad0239314148
(II) SAVAGE(0): 	0a1101036c291b782adc55a359489e24
(II) SAVAGE(0): 	115054bfef808180714f814001010101
(II) SAVAGE(0): 	0101010101019a29a0d0518422305098
(II) SAVAGE(0): 	36009a011100001c000000fd00384b1e
(II) SAVAGE(0): 	510e000a202020202020000000fc0053
(II) SAVAGE(0): 	796e634d61737465720a2020000000ff
(II) SAVAGE(0): 	004839464d3230303036300a202000f9
(II) SAVAGE(0): Using hsync ranges from config file
(II) SAVAGE(0): Using vrefresh ranges from config file
(II) SAVAGE(0): Printing DDC gathered Modelines:
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   40.00  800 840 968 1056  600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   36.00  800 824 896 1024  600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   31.50  640 656 720 840  480 481 484 500 -hsync -vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   31.50  640 664 704 832  480 489 491 520 -hsync -vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   30.24  640 704 768 864  480 483 486 525 -hsync -vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   25.20  640 656 752 800  480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "720x400"   28.32  720 738 846 900  400 412 414 449 -hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x1024"  135.00  1280 1296 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1024x768"   78.80  1024 1040 1136 1312  768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1024x768"   75.00  1024 1048 1184 1328  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1024x768"   65.00  1024 1048 1184 1344  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "832x624"   57.28  832 864 928 1152  624 625 628 667 -hsync -vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   49.50  800 816 896 1056  600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   50.00  800 856 976 1040  600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1152x864"  108.00  1152 1216 1344 1600  864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x1024"  109.00  1280 1368 1496 1712  1024 1027 1034 1063 -hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1152x864"  104.00  1152 1224 1344 1536  864 867 871 905 -hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x960"  101.25  1280 1360 1488 1696  960 963 967 996 -hsync +vsync
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1440x900"  106.50  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 903 909 934 +hsync -vsync
(--) SAVAGE(0): Detected current MCLK value of 14.318 MHz
(--) SAVAGE(0): 1472x1451 TFT LCD panel detected but not active
(--) SAVAGE(0): Found 13 modes at this depth:
    [10f] 320 x 200, 70Hz
    [134] 320 x 240, 72Hz
    [144] 400 x 300, 72Hz
    [154] 512 x 384, 70Hz
    [11e] 640 x 400, 70Hz
    [112] 640 x 480, 60Hz, 75Hz, 85Hz, 100Hz, 160Hz
    [115] 800 x 600, 60Hz, 75Hz, 85Hz
    [118] 1024 x 768, 60Hz, 70Hz, 75Hz, 85Hz, 100Hz, 130Hz
    [17b] 1280 x 768, 60Hz
    [16a] 1280 x 960, 60Hz, 85Hz
    [11b] 1280 x 1024, 60Hz, 75Hz, 85Hz, 100Hz
    [13e] 1400 x 1050, 60Hz, 75Hz
    [124] 1600 x 1200, 60Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Samsung SyncMaster 920NW: Using hsync range of 30.00-81.00 kHz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Samsung SyncMaster 920NW: Using vrefresh range of 56.00-75.00 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Clock range:  10.00 to 220.00 MHz
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1440x900 77Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using mode "1440x900@60" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 640x350 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "640x350" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 320x175 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "320x175" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11e at 70Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "640x400" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 10f at 70Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "320x200" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 720x400 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "720x400" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 360x200 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "360x200" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 134 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 134 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 134 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "640x480" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 134 at 72Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "320x240" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 144 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 144 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 144 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 144 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "800x600" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 144 at 72Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "400x300" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1024x768" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 154 at 70Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "512x384" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 154 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 154 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 154 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1024x768" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 154 at 70Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "512x384" (vrefresh out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1152x864 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1152x864" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 576x432 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "576x432" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 16a at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 16a at 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1280x960" (hsync out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "640x480" (hsync out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11b at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 640x512 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "640x512" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11b at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 640x512 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "640x512" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11b at 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1280x1024" (hsync out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 640x512 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "640x512" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 124 at 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (mode clock too high)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 124 at 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (mode clock too high)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 124 at 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (hsync out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "800x600" (hsync out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 124 at 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (hsync out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "800x600" (hsync out of range)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1600x1200" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "800x600" (hsync out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1792x1344 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1792x1344" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 896x672 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "896x672" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1792x1344" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 896x672 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "896x672" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1856x1392 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1856x1392" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 928x696 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "928x696" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1856x1392" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 928x696 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "928x696" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1920x1440" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 960x720 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "960x720" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1920x1440" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 960x720 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "960x720" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 832x624 74Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "832x624" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 416x312 74Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "416x312" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 17b at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 640x384 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "640x384" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1280x800 59Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1280x800" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11e at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1152x768 54Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1152x768" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 576x384 54Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "576x384" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1152x864 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1152x864" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 576x432 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "576x432" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 13e at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 700x525 59Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "700x525" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 13e at 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1400x1050" (mode clock too high)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 700x525 70Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "700x525" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 13e at 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1400x1050" (mode clock too high)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 700x525 74Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "700x525" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 13e at 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1400x1050" (hsync out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 700x525 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "700x525" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1440x900 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1440x900" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 720x450 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "720x450" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1600x1024 59Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1600x1024" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 800x512 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "800x512" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1680x1050 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1680x1050" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 840x525 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "840x525" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1920x1200 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1920x1200" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 960x600 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "960x600" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1920x1200" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 960x600 72Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "960x600" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1920x1440" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 960x720 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "960x720" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "2048x1536" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 60Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1024x768" (hsync out of range)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "2048x1536" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1024x768" (hsync out of range)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "2048x1536" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 85Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using default mode "1024x768" (hsync out of range)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 720x400 70Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using driver mode "720x400" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11b at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 832x624 74Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using driver mode "832x624" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1152x864 75Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using driver mode "1152x864" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11b at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1152x864 74Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using driver mode "1152x864" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 16a at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): No suitable BIOS mode found for 1440x900 59Hz.
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using driver mode "1440x900" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using mode "1440x900@60" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using mode "1440x900" (no mode of this name)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Not using mode "1440x900@75" (no mode of this name)
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 13e at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11b at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11b at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11b at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11b at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 16a at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 16a at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 17b at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 118 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 115 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 75Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 112 at 60Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 11e at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 154 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 154 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 154 at 70Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 144 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 144 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 144 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 144 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 134 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 134 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Chose mode 134 at 72Hz.
(--) SAVAGE(0): Virtual size is 1400x1050 (pitch 1408)
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "1400x1050": 122.0 MHz, 64.9 kHz, 60.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1400x1050"  122.00  1400 1488 1640 1880  1050 1052 1064 1082 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "1280x1024": 135.0 MHz, 80.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x1024"  135.00  1280 1296 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "1280x1024": 109.0 MHz, 63.7 kHz, 59.9 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x1024"  109.00  1280 1368 1496 1712  1024 1027 1034 1063 -hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "1280x1024": 135.0 MHz, 80.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x1024"  135.00  1280 1296 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "1280x1024": 108.0 MHz, 64.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x1024"  108.00  1280 1328 1440 1688  1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "1280x960": 101.2 MHz, 59.7 kHz, 59.9 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x960"  101.25  1280 1360 1488 1696  960 963 967 996 -hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "1280x960": 108.0 MHz, 60.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x960"  108.00  1280 1376 1488 1800  960 961 964 1000 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "1280x768": 80.1 MHz, 47.7 kHz, 60.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1280x768"   80.14  1280 1344 1480 1680  768 769 772 795
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "1024x768": 78.8 MHz, 60.1 kHz, 75.1 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1024x768"   78.80  1024 1040 1136 1312  768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "1024x768": 75.0 MHz, 56.5 kHz, 70.1 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1024x768"   75.00  1024 1048 1184 1328  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "1024x768": 65.0 MHz, 48.4 kHz, 60.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1024x768"   65.00  1024 1048 1184 1344  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "1024x768": 78.8 MHz, 60.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1024x768"   78.75  1024 1040 1136 1312  768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "1024x768": 75.0 MHz, 56.5 kHz, 70.1 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1024x768"   75.00  1024 1048 1184 1328  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "1024x768": 65.0 MHz, 48.4 kHz, 60.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "1024x768"   65.00  1024 1048 1184 1344  768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "800x600": 49.5 MHz, 46.9 kHz, 75.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   49.50  800 816 896 1056  600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "800x600": 50.0 MHz, 48.1 kHz, 72.2 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   50.00  800 856 976 1040  600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "800x600": 40.0 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 60.3 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   40.00  800 840 968 1056  600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "800x600": 36.0 MHz, 35.2 kHz, 56.2 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   36.00  800 824 896 1024  600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "800x600": 49.5 MHz, 46.9 kHz, 75.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   49.50  800 816 896 1056  600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "800x600": 50.0 MHz, 48.1 kHz, 72.2 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   50.00  800 856 976 1040  600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "800x600": 87.8 MHz, 81.2 kHz, 65.0 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   87.75  800 832 928 1080  600 600 602 625 doublescan +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "800x600": 40.0 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 60.3 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   40.00  800 840 968 1056  600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "800x600": 81.0 MHz, 75.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   81.00  800 832 928 1080  600 600 602 625 doublescan +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "800x600": 36.0 MHz, 35.2 kHz, 56.2 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "800x600"   36.00  800 824 896 1024  600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "640x480": 31.5 MHz, 37.5 kHz, 75.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   31.50  640 656 720 840  480 481 484 500 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "640x480": 31.5 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 72.8 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   31.50  640 664 704 832  480 489 491 520 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "640x480": 30.2 MHz, 35.0 kHz, 66.7 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   30.24  640 704 768 864  480 483 486 525 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Driver mode "640x480": 25.2 MHz, 31.5 kHz, 60.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   25.20  640 656 752 800  480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "640x480": 31.5 MHz, 37.5 kHz, 75.0 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   31.50  640 656 720 840  480 481 484 500 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "640x480": 31.5 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 72.8 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   31.50  640 664 704 832  480 489 492 520 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "640x480": 54.0 MHz, 60.0 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   54.00  640 688 744 900  480 480 482 500 doublescan +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "640x480": 25.2 MHz, 31.5 kHz, 59.9 Hz
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x480"   25.18  640 656 752 800  480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "640x400": 41.7 MHz, 49.7 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "640x400"   41.73  640 672 740 840  400 400 402 414 doublescan
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "512x384": 39.4 MHz, 60.0 kHz, 75.0 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "512x384"   39.38  512 520 568 656  384 384 386 400 doublescan +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "512x384": 37.5 MHz, 56.5 kHz, 70.1 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "512x384"   37.50  512 524 592 664  384 385 388 403 doublescan -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "512x384": 32.5 MHz, 48.4 kHz, 60.0 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "512x384"   32.50  512 524 592 672  384 385 388 403 doublescan -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "400x300": 24.8 MHz, 46.9 kHz, 75.1 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "400x300"   24.75  400 408 448 528  300 300 302 312 doublescan +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "400x300": 25.0 MHz, 48.1 kHz, 72.2 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "400x300"   25.00  400 428 488 520  300 318 321 333 doublescan +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "400x300": 20.0 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 60.3 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "400x300"   20.00  400 420 484 528  300 300 302 314 doublescan +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "400x300": 18.0 MHz, 35.2 kHz, 56.3 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "400x300"   18.00  400 412 448 512  300 300 301 312 doublescan +hsync +vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "320x240": 15.8 MHz, 37.5 kHz, 75.0 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "320x240"   15.75  320 328 360 420  240 240 242 250 doublescan -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "320x240": 15.8 MHz, 37.9 kHz, 72.8 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "320x240"   15.75  320 332 352 416  240 244 246 260 doublescan -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0):  Default mode "320x240": 12.6 MHz, 31.5 kHz, 60.1 Hz (D)
(II) SAVAGE(0): Modeline "320x240"   12.59  320 328 376 400  240 245 246 262 doublescan -hsync -vsync
(**) SAVAGE(0): Display dimensions: (410, 270) mm
(**) SAVAGE(0): DPI set to (86, 98)

```

From the log, it seems that it won't accept the mode in the xorg.conf file, and insists on using an internal vesa mode, but the modeline in xorg.conf was generated by gtf so it should be ok.

Help!

---

### Post by dipasqum on 2007-11-06
Mine seems to be working niceley thanks to this thread.  Love Ubuntu!

here is my xorg.conf in case it can help someone.  I have a GEforce ti 4400 in my box...

Section "ServerLayout"

    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc104"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

#Section "Monitor"
#    Identifier     "SUN"
#    HorizSync       30.0 - 96.0
#    VertRefresh     48.0 - 160.0
#    Option         "DPMS"
#EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "SyncMaster"
Option "Dpms"
HorizSync 30-81
VertRefresh 56-75
Modeline "1440x900_60.00" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -HSync +Vsync
Displaysize 410 256
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA Corporation NV25 [GeForce4 Ti 4400]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA Corporation NV25 [GeForce4 Ti 4400]"
    Monitor        "SyncMaster"
    DefaultDepth    24
     SubSection "Display"
	Depth 1
	Modes "1440x900"
     EndSubSection
     SubSection "Display"
	Depth 4
	Modes "1440x900"
     EndSubSection
     SubSection "Display"
	Depth 8
	Modes "1440x900"
     EndSubSection
     SubSection "Display"
	Depth 15
	Modes "1440x900"
     EndSubSection
     SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
#        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x900" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	Modes "1440x900_70.00" "1440x900_60.00"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Tybris on 2008-01-12
> **jehosephat said:**
> Modeline "1440x900" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 903 909 934
Thanks! This worked for my Samsung Syncmaster 940bw. Somehow the display would not accept the other setting, but would give a message saying that the recommended setting was 1440x900 @ 60Hz (which was what I was trying to configure).

---

