---
title: "X11"
date: 2005-10-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by atambo on 2005-10-20
A few days ago i installed Ubuntu on the computer that i am talking to you on. I am a fan of counterstrike and i wanted to download it onto my computer, so i went to the website and downloaded the file need for the game. It saved the .exe file to my destop, But when i double click it i get an error saying > Couldn't display "/home/justin/Desktop/hldsupdatetool.bin".
I asked someone else this in another forum and they said i need to get rid of X11 and display it in a shell. Is this what i should do? Or is that wrong . . . if that is what i need to do, how do i do it?

-atambo

---

### Post by seethru on 2005-10-20
are you trying to run a cs server?

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2005-10-21
[QUOTE=atambo]A few days ago i installed Ubuntu on the computer that i am talking to you on. I am a fan of counterstrike and i wanted to download it onto my computer, so i went to the website and downloaded the file need for the game. It saved the .exe file to my destop, But when i double click it i get an error saying 
I asked someone else this in another forum and they said i need to get rid of X11 and display it in a shell. Is this what i should do? Or is that wrong . . . if that is what i need to do, how do i do it?

-atambo[/QUOTE]

Counter Strike only runs on windows dude, so you screwed, i think there is a clone like game for linux tho google it.

---

### Post by atambo on 2005-10-21
[QUOTE=seethru]are you trying to run a cs server?[/QUOTE]
Yes i am trying to run a Source Dedicated Server, and by the way Ocxic um . . . .  tis perfectly normal to run a server with linux . windows sucks and servers lagg wit it.

---

### Post by atambo on 2005-10-21
so how do i get rid of X11?

---

