---
title: "7.04 Live? How do I install Ubuntu?"
date: 2007-06-17
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by tactK on 2007-06-17
I own an Acer Aspire 5630 notebook and wanting to give Ubuntu a try. I downloaded the desktop edition of Ubuntu (7.04) from the main site and placed it on a cd. Somehow I couldnt get my laptop to boot from the cd. I already set my lappy to boot from my dvd rom but nothing happened, it continues to load windows. What shd i do to get my Ubuntu up and going?

All help is greatly appreciated =)

-tactK

---

### Post by RadarListener on 2007-06-17
I had a similar problem on one of the computers I installed it onto.

Check for an option with the name of the drive instead of just "cdrom", mine was 
"PIONEER DVD-RW". Select that to be where you want to boot from and it might boot.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-06-17
How exactly did you place it  on the CD? Is there an iso file on the CD now? If there is, that's the problem. Check out this guide
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto?highlight=%28iso%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto?highlight=%28iso%29)

---

### Post by poppers1957 on 2007-06-17
Did you check the md5sum?  Does other boot disk start on cdrom?  The data on the burned disk could be corrupt.  I would try to see if a good boot disk works in your drive first.  My Dell laptop sometimes won't boot from CD.  I set the BIOS so that it won't see the HD and then run that once, then switch it back.  Make sure the thing boots with known working CD media first.

---

### Post by tactK on 2007-06-17
I've got the cd to work no problem at all (mounted it with daemon and burnt it fine). And uhh... I've played around with different boot locations but none of them worked (works OK with my WinXP boot disc... =/)...

There isnt any installation options on the autorun either... Hehe... soo confused x_x

---

### Post by gnirts on 2007-06-18
If your computer successfully boots from the WinXP boot CD, try using a different CD burner/slower burn speed. I do my bootable CDs at 4x. In my mind its worth the time. Are you using brand name media (eg. Verbatim, Memorex, etc.)?

---

### Post by tactK on 2007-06-18
Err... Does the burning speed actually affect the content of the CD? Yeah, I'll give that a try...

I remembered ordering Ubuntu years ago and obtained 2 Discs. Live and Installation. You reckon that the one i downloaded is the live version?

---

### Post by poppers1957 on 2007-06-18
I have burned over 10,000 disks.  Speed matters!!! Slowest possible.  Media type matters.  I'm not an HP fan but their black CD's have the least amount of fails.  Make sure NOTHING is running in the background.  And run nothing AT ALL while it is burning.  If your box starts with the XP disk, then you have a bad burn, or the md5sum is bad.  Have you checked the md5sum?

---

### Post by scannerdarkly on 2007-06-18
make sure that your using an ALL purpose CD-R or DVD-R.   But anyway just make sure that it's not just a music CD-R or DVD-R or what have you.  If thats not the case then try to set up your boot up order to have a USB device first, then the CD/DVD drive.  Boot up with the CD in the drive and a thumb drive in a usb port.  You will get an error and then take the thumb drive out and click enter.  It may or may not work.  I had to do that once to install OpenSuse on a laptop with a slow drive.

---

### Post by HotShotDJ on 2007-06-18
I've never had a problem with burning cd's at maximum supported speed and multitasking.  But that isn't relevant.  When you look at the contents of the CD-ROM that you burned, what files are listed?

---

### Post by poppers1957 on 2007-06-18
Check the md5su?   If it isn't right, you will get a corrupt burn.   Did you check the md5sum???  All else won't matter.  I didn't see where you said if you checked it.  

As for hotshotdj, a burning program can often say that the burn completed successfully, and still be a bad burn, all the media has to miss is one byte of info and you have a bad burn.  If it is music or just saving pics or txt files this won't matter much.  But if it is an Operating System,  one can afford to not use their computer for 6 minutes while an OS is being prepared.  And the "experts" say, do not have your cd/dvd burner connected to any other device, i.e. only run it as master single on ide2.  This will also cause bad rips if you don't follow these tips.   How the media works is this.  There is a small sheet of metal material between plastic in a cd.  The metal has been prepared with millions of little bumps on it.  The laser burns data on these little bumps.  A thumb print or speck of dust can cause the laser to not reach the bump.   Type of media only matters when you are trying to burn a dvd, if your box doesn't see the media, you can't use it.  QUALITY of the media MATTERS.   HP media burns about 2% bad (coasters) Memorex 4% bad, TDK 7%.  We have kept track of every CD our company has ever burned, and how they were burned.  I am only telling you this because I believe information should be shared freely, a little bit like the Linus theory.  I know there are exceptions to the rules hotshot, but what I am sharing is the truth, and a reply like yours may mislead someone into not really paying attention to it.

---

### Post by HotShotDJ on 2007-06-19
> **poppers1957 said:**
> I know there are exceptions to the rules hotshot, but what I am sharing is the truth, and a reply like yours may mislead someone into not really paying attention to it.Using poorly configured hardware or bad media of COURSE will produce unreliable results.  I'll go you one better... I typically have my burner as the ONLY device on an IDE channel.  When that isn't possible, then as the first device.  With externals, I use a USB header with nothing else plugged in.  For the last several years, I've used SATA for my hard drives and IDE for my cd/dvd-rw drives.  I've had 100% success burning music and data this way at full speed -- including OS cds (I like to play with various LiveCD's, so I do it frequently enough).  If one does not have their hardware hooked up in an optimal manner, then slowing down the burn may help.  Additionally, if the MD5sum checks out and you are still getting a bad burn, then try slowing it down.  But if you have to do that, then your having a hardware problem.  Burning at a slower speed may reduce the symptoms, but it does not solve the underlying problem.  This should not be necessary with relatively modern hardware properly hooked up and configured.

Regarding media -- Back in the day, it was hit or miss if you didn't use a "recommended" brand of cd blanks.  Several brands would produce bad burns on a regular basis.  I have not seen that problem for 3 years at least.  I've used "generic" brands (like CompUSA branded 100ct cake box of CD's) with no trouble at all.  But it could happen, in which case, slowing down the burn may help.

I stand by my original comment on this topic.  However, IF one is having problems with bad burns, THEN try using a slower speed.  IF this helps, THEN you have either bad hardware, badly configured hardware, or bad media.

---

### Post by tactK on 2007-06-19
Thanks for the help guys, I re-burned the disc and it worked! Wow... So burning speed really do matter! hahaha

again, thanks for the help!

---

### Post by marx22 on 2007-09-24
> **tactK said:**
> I own an Acer Aspire 5630 notebook and wanting to give Ubuntu a try. I downloaded the desktop edition of Ubuntu (7.04) from the main site and placed it on a cd. Somehow I couldnt get my laptop to boot from the cd. I already set my lappy to boot from my dvd rom but nothing happened, it continues to load windows. What shd i do to get my Ubuntu up and going?

All help is greatly appreciated =)

-tactK

Hi there. I have the same computer, and I know how to boot from CD with an Acer Aspire 5630. You have to use Acer eSettings management and change the boot sequence so that it checks to see if there is a CD/DVD to boot from first, and then the hard drive. To access Acer eSettings Management, go to
Start --> All programs --> Acer Empowering technology --> Acer eSettings Management.

When you open Acer eSettings Management, look at the bottom of the window, and you will see 3 tabs. Click Boot Options from the bottom tabs. When that opens, you will be shown the Boot Sequence. In the list, move CD-ROM/DVD Drive to the top so that your computer boots from CD first. When you want to revert the change so that your comp boots from the hard drive first again, in the list just move Hard Drive back to the top.

---

