---
title: "5.10: CDROM device not created after successful installation"
date: 2006-01-08
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by momowowo on 2006-01-08
I have successfully installed Kubuntu 5.10 onto Fujitsu lifebook P7120, which detected my DVD drive OK (/dev/scd0) as installation media.

But bootup after installation completed, the device (/dev/scd0) was not created,  while /etc/fstab still contains the entry for /dev/scd0.

Any idea?   I guess the DVD is SATA 

PS:  Slackware even could not be installed due to failing to find the DVD

---

### Post by tomikk on 2006-01-12
Did you solve the problem?
I have the same issue on my P7120. I installed ubuntu 5.10, everything worked out of the box except:
- DVD is not detected (even not in /dev dir)
- SD card reader and fingerprint sensor doesn't work (no linux support for those devices), fingerprint sensor even doesn't work as a scrollbar (as in Windows)
- headphone jack is not working (I wonder why)
- eth won't wake up from sleep (no prob with hybernation)
I would call that success, I didn't expect such a smooth hw detection and painless installation. DVD is only major problem for me.
Can you help?

---

### Post by momowowo on 2006-01-18
no luck.

I tried putting "libata.atapi_enabled=1" into Grub, according to link below:
  [http://linux.spiney.org/debian_gnu_linux_on_an_ibm_thinkpad_t43p_cdrw_dvdrw_multi_burner](http://linux.spiney.org/debian_gnu_linux_on_an_ibm_thinkpad_t43p_cdrw_dvdrw_multi_burner)

(I have kernel 2.6.14.)

But nothing is changed.

---

### Post by handrake on 2006-01-19
[QUOTE=tomikk]Did you solve the problem?
I have the same issue on my P7120. I installed ubuntu 5.10, everything worked out of the box except:
- DVD is not detected (even not in /dev dir)
- SD card reader and fingerprint sensor doesn't work (no linux support for those devices), fingerprint sensor even doesn't work as a scrollbar (as in Windows)
- headphone jack is not working (I wonder why)
- eth won't wake up from sleep (no prob with hybernation)
I would call that success, I didn't expect such a smooth hw detection and painless installation. DVD is only major problem for me.
Can you help?[/QUOTE]

I think headphone jack is not working because you need a special software that detects a headphone, determine whether it's plugged in or not. 
You can see it says "headphone plugged in" on windows. So we probably need a driver to use headphone... Please tell me if you succeed in any of those...

---

### Post by handrake on 2006-01-28
After playing around a little bit, I found a way to get headphone jack working

If you look into the volume control carefully, you can find open volume control.

Simply turn headphone control on, and adjust the volume! It's probably muted as default...

You can control internal speaker volume just the same way.

P.S. I upgraded the kernel to 2.6.15.1 maybe that's why :)

---

