---
title: "Ubuntu on a Dell 5000e"
date: 2007-03-28
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by rondackcpu on 2007-03-28
Thank you for viewing this post.

I am a complete Ubuntu Linux newbie.  In the last two months I have rescued two late model Wintel machines and one very old iMac Blueberry from their inferior operating systems by installing Ubuntu 6.10.  I am a complete convert to Ubuntu.  There have been no operating system crashes on any of these machines since their conversion to Ubuntu.  Now the next conquest is my older Dell 5000e laptop.  It does not have enough memory or a large enough hard disk to install Ubuntu.  I am willing to spend the money to do those upgrades, and have figured out exactly what to buy, but there is no point in spending this money unless I know I can make it work with Ubuntu 6.10 or 7.04.  The 5000e has a sweet high resolution display which still has no noticeable defects, and runs its Windows ME just fine, and the only question is the ATI Rage Mobility display card.  I do understand that there is a problem with ATI cards, but I do not understand the posted possible fixes.  The Xfree86.org web site says that more ATI cards than before are supported in their newest releases, but does that mean that Ubuntu has incorporated support for the 5000e's ATI card?

Can I make the ATI Rage Mobility card work?  If there is a blank screen at the end of the Ubuntu install process, how do I get a terminal to make some of the suggested edits to the config files that I have found?  Does the current 6.10 install, or the future 7.04 install, recognize the ATI Rage Mobility card?  Is there any hope for a newbie?

Thank you for reading through this post.  Any help will be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-03-29
Im no expert since I installed Ubuntu Edgy on the 5000e about 2 weeks ago, but below is a portion of the documentation I have been writing for myself in case I ever needed to reinstall Ubuntu on the machine.  It worked for me!

Correction of Video Card, Ubuntu Conflict (Known problem with Inspiron 5000e machines with ATI Rage Mobility Cards)
References:
	[http://ibgwww.colorado.edu/~lessem/5000e/XF86Config-4](http://ibgwww.colorado.edu/~lessem/5000e/XF86Config-4) 

With the Inspiron 5000e it possess the ATI Rage Mobility 128 graphics card.
This presents unusual problems in that the computer screen was messed up (3 separate vertical sections) during the CD installation and also booting from the hard drive once the installation was complete.  Despite the split screen, I was able to install Ubuntu from the installation disk, although this was frustrating.  After the install and booting to the hard-drive (bios reconfigured), I was able to boot into Ubuntu, however the split screens continued to appear.
The root cause of the problem was a faulty /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. This file must be manually changed.  (Again some ongoing conflict with all ATI cards, the specific ATI Rage Mobility card in the 5000e, and the X windows system).

First I popped open a terminal and changed to the appropriate directory
cd /etc/X11/
Then backed up the original file:
sudo cp xorg.conf xorg.original.conf

Using vi or gedit (instruction on how to use these editors not included in this manual),
I changed the xorg.conf file to following (likely only useful for Inspiron 5000e users) (can copy this section contained directly below and save it as the xorg.conf file):



# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Keyboard0"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Mouse0"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Option "AGPMode"	"2"
	Option "DPMS"
	Option "Display"	"Mirror"
	Identifier "Card0"
	Driver	"ati"
	VendorName	"ATI"
	BoardName	"Rage 128 Mobility LF"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor0"
	VendorName	"Monitor Vendor"
	ModelName	"Monitor Model"
#	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-90
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Device		"Card0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1600x1200" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"XFree86 Configured"
	Screen	0	"Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice	"Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice	"Mouse0" "CorePointer"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

I then restarted the computer either via the gui interface or by typing at the command prompt: sudo shutdown -r now

---

### Post by rondackcpu on 2007-03-31
Thank you, kevdog, for replying.  I can handle "gedit".

---

### Post by rondackcpu on 2007-04-09
Kevdog,

If you are still watching this post, and for anyone else who has a Dell 5000e, the install of Ubuntu 6.10 was almost uneventful.  I upgraded the memory to 512 MB and the hard disk to 40 GB.  Changing out the hard disk was little trouble even though this was my first time.  Fdisk, format, and the installation of Windows ME (its original operating system) were a snap.  Dell BIOS did not need to be changed.

The LiveCD for 6.10 did its thing and the computer now has dual boot Windows ME (for such things as MS Works 4.5 and TurboTax, and is my only Windows computer) and Ubuntu.

Kevdog's list for the xorg.conf file was overkill.  The only thing that needed to be changed was the resolution of the display.  Mine happens to be 1400x1050 as opposed to any of the numbers Kevdog gave.

Thanks, Kevdog, for getting me started with it.

---

### Post by ManOnStreet on 2007-07-06
I ran into the split screen problem installing ubuntu 7.04 on a Dell 5000e.  I moved the install dialog boxes around with the mouse to allow me to get through the CD installation.  When I rebooted from the hard drive, the problem persisted.  I read the above threads so knew to edit the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file - I did this by opening a terminal window from the Applications | Accessories menu.  I then typed the command discussed elsewhere

sudo gedit /etc/Xll/xorg.conf

The only line I changed in xorg.conf was in 'Section "Screen"', I added two new resolutions in the Depth 24 area

Old lines:

Depth 24
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection

New Lines:

Depth 24
Modes "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection

When I rebooted the laptop, problem solved.  

Thanks for the help all.

---

