---
title: "Touchpad Problems for Dell Vostro 1400 (ALPS)"
date: 2008-01-28
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by iobus55 on 2008-01-28
I recently bought a Dell Vostro 1400, which has an ALPS touchpad, and the touchpad is not working in Ubuntu.  The strange thing is that the button works (I can click and right click) but  I cannot move the cursor.  I have windows installed on dual boot and it works fine under windows so it's not a hardware issue.  Does anyone have an idea of what the issue could be?  Here is my xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1280x800"
	Horizsync	31.5-50.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	800
		Modes		"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "device" #      
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" #      
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" #      
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by BaronVonShortStack on 2008-02-02
Forgive me if this is a dumb question, and it's kind of a shot in the dark, but did you by chance install ksynaptics or qsynaptics (both are GUI programs designed to edit/change your touch pad settings) and accidentally click "Touchpad off" or something similar?

---

### Post by King_Louie on 2008-03-01
My ALPS pad on a Vostro 1400  was working but had no vertical scroll and wouldn't respond to changes in xorg.conf. I solved the problem by updating the xorg.conf file automatically by running the terminal command: ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` This will reset the entire xorg.conf file, so make a backup of the existing file first. Then you can re-enter any customized settings you may wish. Reset X (<Ctrl><Alt><Backspace>) to apply the new settings. I am running Hardy Heron Alpha 5, and am no guru, so I'm not sure if this will work on Gutsy or earlier.

---

### Post by PAshaRome on 2008-03-05
> **King_Louie said:**
> My ALPS pad on a Vostro 1400  was working but had no vertical scroll and wouldn't respond to changes in xorg.conf. I solved the problem by updating the xorg.conf file automatically by running the terminal command: ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` This will reset the entire xorg.conf file, so make a backup of the existing file first. Then you can re-enter any customized settings you may wish. Reset X (<Ctrl><Alt><Backspace>) to apply the new settings. I am running Hardy Heron Alpha 5, and am no guru, so I'm not sure if this will work on Gutsy or earlier.

Can you post your xorg.conf here?

---

### Post by King_Louie on 2008-03-05
> **PAshaRome said:**
> Can you post your xorg.conf here?


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

------------------------------

I just did  a clean install on another Vostro 1400 and can confirm the same experience.
 Running ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` as indicated at the top of the xorg.conf file  fixed the vertical scroll. Everything is peachy.

---

### Post by bm13084 on 2008-05-25
I'm pretty sure I have the same touchpad, and everything works fine (even scrolling from the touchpad it's self) except the middle button.  in order to scroll DOWN i have to hit UP.  and vice versa.  I'm also having random clicks on links/icons when i pass them.

another problem that may be related to the touchpad is random cursor skipping....but that might be a separate problem...


any clue on how to fix this?

---

