---
title: "Sierra Wireless MC8755 HSDPA Modem with Ubuntu 7.10"
date: 2008-01-21
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Slipp3rs on 2008-01-21
Hi all. I downloaded the drivers and I think it installed correctly, but I still can't connect. I tried 4 different ways of connecting:

KPPP:
-------

KPPP crashes as soon as it says CONNECTED:

 Vodafone Mobile Connect Card Driver for Linux:
----------------------------------------------------------

I can read my sms', but can't delete them or send new ones. Also, the connect button is disabled. So no chance of connecting.

PPP:
------

Outcome from log window:

/home/john/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port.
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATX3
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Re-Sending: ATX3
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port.
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATX3
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATM1L3DT*99#
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATM1L3DT*99#
WvDial Modem<*1>: NO CARRIER
WvDial<Warn>: No Carrier!  Trying again.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATM1L3DT*99#
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATM1L3DT*99#
WvDial Modem<*1>: NO CARRIER
WvDial<Warn>: No Carrier!  Trying again.
WvDial<Warn>: Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
WvDial<*1>: Disconnecting at Mon Jan 21 08:35:09 2008"

PPP via terminal:
--------------------

Here is the outcome:

"# pppd call gsm
Starting Sierra Wireless GSM connect script...

Setting the abort string

Initializing modem

Setting APN

Dialing...
Serial connection established.
using channel 5
Using interface ppp0
Connect: ppp0 <--> /dev/ttyUSB0
sent [LCP ConfReq id=0x1 <asyncmap 0x0> <magic 0x96a30669> <pcomp> <accomp>]
rcvd [LCP ConfReq id=0xd <asyncmap 0x0> <auth chap MD5> <magic 0xb242810> <pcomp> <accomp>]
sent [LCP ConfNak id=0xd <auth pap>]
rcvd [LCP ConfAck id=0x1 <asyncmap 0x0> <magic 0x96a30669> <pcomp> <accomp>]
rcvd [LCP ConfReq id=0xe <asyncmap 0x0> <auth pap> <magic 0xb242810> <pcomp> <accomp>]
sent [LCP ConfAck id=0xe <asyncmap 0x0> <auth pap> <magic 0xb242810> <pcomp> <accomp>]
sent [LCP EchoReq id=0x0 magic=0x96a30669]
sent [PAP AuthReq id=0x1 user="john-pc" password=<hidden>]
rcvd [LCP DiscReq id=0xf magic=0xb242810]
rcvd [LCP EchoRep id=0x0 magic=0xb242810 96 a3 06 69]
rcvd [PAP AuthAck id=0x1 ""]
PAP authentication succeeded
sent [CCP ConfReq id=0x1 <deflate 15> <deflate(old#) 15> <bsd v1 15>]
sent [IPCP ConfReq id=0x1 <compress VJ 0f 01> <addr 0.0.0.0> <ms-dns1 0.0.0.0> <ms-dns3 0.0.0.0>]
rcvd [LCP ProtRej id=0x10 80 fd 01 01 00 0f 1a 04 78 00 18 04 78 00 15 03 2f]
Protocol-Reject for 'Compression Control Protocol' (0x80fd) received
Modem hangup
Connection terminated."

Will really appreciate the help.
Thanx.

---

### Post by SB-RAD on 2008-02-05
From the dial string I can see you are trying to use Packet Switched Data (GPRS on GSM or 3G/HSDPA)

The dial string *99# calls the APN stored in location one of your data card. If this is not stored on the card the device does not know what APN to connect to.

The easiest way I have done this is via a com port talking to the modem set the APN to a dial number.

In a com port session enter:
AT
you should get "OK" in response

now enter:
at+cgdcont?

this will respond with the APNs stored on the card eg

+CGDCONT: 1,"IP","acmecorp","0.0.0.0",0,0

The dial string for the above will be:

*99***1#

Not sure what the vodaphone APN is but if you enter somthing like this:

AT+CGDCONT=3,"IP","vodofone"

as long as location 3 is empty then use:

*99***3# as the dial code then packet switched data session should connect at whatever bearer speed is available.

Please note that if the session drops after a few minutes each time you may need to hash out the lcp echo and lcp retry in the PPP conf. Windows ignores this but Linux does not.

---

