---
title: "3d acceleration not working after installing drivers"
date: 2005-05-19
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-19
Yesterday I installed drivers to my Ati Radeon 9600 Pro, and did it like this howto told: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32495](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32495)
Everything went just fine, X rebooted and so on.

Today I installed Cedega, and I read the instructions. Threre was said that I should check if my 3d acceleration is enabled. I checked, and glxinfo says "direct rendering: no". I searched these forums, and found this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=774969](http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=774969) I did what was told, and everything went fine expect I still don't have any 3d acceleration!

I searched more, but I didn't find anything. So could you people help me a bit?

Perhaps you want to check my xorg.conf-file:
```

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"fi"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9600 (R300 AP)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Option "backingstore" "true"
	Option "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"HP D8907"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-100
	VertRefresh	50-160

	# 1152x864 @ 85.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 77.10 kHz; pclk: 119.65 MHz
	Modeline "1152x864_85.00"  119.65  1152 1224 1352 1552  864 865 868 907  -HSync +Vsync

EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9600 (R300 AP)"
	Monitor		"HP D8907"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1152x864"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```

---

### Post by StacyWebb on 2005-05-19
may want to check if the module is loaded

sudo vi /etc/moddules.

make sure that fglrx is there also do 

modprobe fglrx 

and take note of what happens if nothing happens then the module loaded fine.

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-19
I checked the file, and fglrx was not on the list. I added it to the list, and run the command modprobe fglrx. It loaded properly, no error messages or anything. What should I do now? The glxinfo still says that direct rendering is disabled.

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-20
Up

---

### Post by reformist on 2005-05-20
Check dmesg to see if it had any errors loading, and check /var/log/Xorg.0.log and look around the spot where the module gets loaded for errors. If there are no errors, and the module is loaded (lsmod | grep fglrx), then you should have acceleration (after restarting X of course).

Also, are you running amd64 in 64 bit mode? If so, what is your glxgears score?

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-21
Here is what I got after I did what you told:

dmesg | grep fglrx:
-------------
[fglrx] Maximum main memory to use for locked dma buffers: 432 MBytes.
[fglrx] module loaded - fglrx 8.8.25 [Jan 14 2005] on minor 0
[fglrx:firegl_unlock] *ERROR* Process 5847 using kernel context 0
-------------

So FireGL doesn't load properly? I can't understand the error message.

/var/log/Xorg.0.log:
-------------
(II) LoadModule: "fglrx"
(II) Loading /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/drivers/fglrx_drv.o
(II) Module fglrx: vendor="FireGL - ATI Technologies Inc."
	compiled for 6.8.0, module version = 8.12.10
	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 0.7

...

(WW) fglrx: No matching Device section for instance (BusID PCI:2:0:1) found
-------------

Nothing suspicious in the module loading part, but what the last line means?

Glxgears give 271,2 FPS only so the 3d acceleration really is disabled. I have rebooted computer many times since I started this thread. I have the 32-bit version.

---

### Post by kleeman on 2005-05-21
Are you absolutely sure you loaded the linux-restricted-modules package matching your kernel?

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-21
From the howto:
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-<your-kernel-version> xorg-driver-fglrx

When I installed the drivers I checked kernel version with uname -r, and copypasted it. Apt-get installed the package fine.

Now I opened Synaptic, and searched for restricted-modules. I found out that two packages have been installed. They are linux-restricted-modules-2.6.10-5-386 and linux-restricted-modules-386. The first depens on the latter. There is also column "Installed version". For the first package it says 2.6.10.5-1, for the other it is 2.6.10.5-7. So something is wrong? I let apt-get to do the installation, could apt-get have installed wrong version?

Uname -r says that my kernel is 2.6.10-5-386.

---

### Post by kleeman on 2005-05-21
No looks fine. Just checking....

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-24
Any ideas? I really wish to get 3d acceleration working so I can fire up Cedega.

---

### Post by kleeman on 2005-05-24
It looks from your x.org error log that x.org expects to find driver instructions for hardware at  
BusID PCI:2:0:1
but your xorg.conf file is showing 
BusID PCI:2:0:0
Perhaps you could try changing the entry in xorg.conf
BTW you don't see any (EE) lines in the log do you?
They are the fatal errors that stop things working.....

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-24
Great, found this from /var/log/Xorg.0.log:

(WW) fglrx(0): Kernel Module version does *not* match driver.
(EE) fglrx(0): incompatible kernel module detected - HW accelerated OpenGL will not work

kleeman: You said everything is fine when I told about installed packages. The "Installed Version" column differ from each other as you can see. So what should I do now? Do I have to uninstall drivers and re-install them?

---

### Post by kleeman on 2005-05-24
OK so there IS a mismatch between your kernel and the restricted modules. What does uname -a give for you?

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-24
Uname -a:
Linux Orthanc 2.6.10-5-386 #1 Tue Apr 5 12:12:40 UTC 2005 i686 GNU/Linux

As I said in the first post, I did what was told in here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=3567&highlight=ati+3d+acceleration](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=3567&highlight=ati+3d+acceleration) Now I realised that it was unnecessary, right? Many people have said not to use fglrxconfig, and I have restored an older xorg.conf.

---

### Post by kleeman on 2005-05-24
This getting beyond my expertise however I did find this related thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=34268&page=2&pp=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=34268&page=2&pp=10)

and one thing suggested there was to remove the BusID line in xorg.conf
which seems to gel with one of your error messages above....

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-25
I got the acceleration now. I removed everything: drivers, headers etc and then I did exactly like the howto said and checked twice that Installed Versions were the same. Then, after rebooting I have 3d acceleration, and glxgears score rose from 272 to 3000. Also the error about BusID disappeared after kernel headers were correct. Anyway thanks kleeman.

---

### Post by kleeman on 2005-05-25
Good to hear. One small misstep somewhere probably  :smile:

---

### Post by jtwadsworth on 2005-05-25
Turumbar,

Help me out with how you solved the problem.  I still get the error that the kernel is not the same version and I did exactly like the HOWTO said on a clean install.  Did you update Ubuntu before or after you installed the fglrx drivers? (by default now on a clean install Ubuntu will flag several updates)

jtw

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-26
I update regurarly so I don't remember if I updated just before I got the drivers working. Anyway updating won't hurt you.

I did something like this:

I removed restricted modules, linux-headers-386, fglrx driver (downloaded from Ati's homepage) and xorg-driver.

I didn't touch in xorg.conf because it was already fine.

Then I started re-installing the packages. First the restricted modules and the xorg-driver and then the fglrx driver. Just like the howto says. Before installing I of course installed linux-headers-386 from Synaptic. Now here my first intallation went wrong I think. Mark the two packeges needed to be installed, and check that the Latest Versions are the same in both of the packages. After installing check also that Installed Versions are the same. After this do as the howto tells, make.sh etc.

I also found out that some people had problems with installing when the installation was not going to be clean. Somebody said that moving one file to another location works: sudo mv /lib/modules/YOURKERNELVRSIONHERE/kernel/drivers/video/fglrx.ko $HOME I did this before installing, but I don't know if it is a must. You better do it also.

Oh, and double check you are installing correct packages by typing uname -r in the console. This command prints out the kernel version.

---

### Post by jtwadsworth on 2005-05-26
Ok I will try yet AGAIN <sigh>  My kernel version is 2.6.10-5-386 and that is the same version of headers I have loaded...note though that there is more than one version of 2.6.10-5-386 headers...and I have had multiple loaded headers.

The last time I made sure the versions were correct, but the problem is even though I installed the ATI driver over top of the Xorg-driver-fgrlx just as this HOWTO says, the Xorg.0.log still shows the version of fglrx to be that of the xorg-driver-fglrx instead of the ATI downloaded driver, and gives me the mismatch kernel message.

jtw

---

### Post by jtwadsworth on 2005-05-29
Got the correct header problem fixed.  Xorg.0.log says all is well, but X still gives a black screen when it loads. :(

jtw

---

### Post by Turambar on 2005-05-30
This is also going over my expertise. I suggest you to try different resolutions and refresh rates. I wonder if it could work. Good luck!

---

