---
title: "Asus F3SV and Ubuntu"
date: 2007-06-17
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Wattos on 2007-06-17
Hi,

I am a proud owner of an Asus F3SV. I also upgraded to 4GB ram.

The reason for this post is that I would like to share my experience with Ubuntu and the laptop. 


I downloaded Feisty 64 bit 7.4 .

The first problem was that the live cd could get an error while booting the ubuntu. After loading the kernel I received an error about tty and it put me into a command shell which was useless. Moreover I wouldnt get a screen unless i changed from VGA to a particular resolution. 

The fix for this problem was downloading the alternate cd which worked nicely. 

The problem with ubuntu is that the nvidia drivers are not working correctly. The fix I had to do is to boot up failsafe and execute the following command :

mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old | sed 's/nv/vesa/' > /etc/X11/xorg.conf

this will let you use the standard vesa drivers instead of the nvidia ones. Now when you reboot you should be able to get the gnome log in screen (note. the screen turns black instead of the ubuntu loader, thats weird, but ubuntu will work, be patient)

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/atl1](http://sourceforge.net/projects/atl1)

([http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=184921](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=184921))  <- the one i used.

The problem with installing this driver is that ubuntu for some reason does not see the cdrom drive (or at least the media inserted). The easiest way is to either have it on a pen drive or on another partitio (ie. windows partition). The installation is very easy. Just have ythe etracted contents anywhere you have (ie. home folder) and execute:

sudo make install

Now reboot Ubuntu and youll have your network card working. 

The sound card works fine. I will be working on getting wifi and the graphics card to work. I will post my comments. I also appreciate any of your comments :)

---

### Post by errenay on 2007-06-17
Thank you for this thread! I'm thinking about the same laptop to buy and, of course, to install (K)ubuntu on it. Any additional info will be welcome! :D

---

### Post by Wattos on 2007-06-17
tried to get nvidia drivers to work (100.14.09). Xserver doesnt start now after doing some stuff mentioned on forums. Ill try to work on the nvidia stuff, if it doesnt work, Ill have to use vesa until new drivers come out nd try again. 

I still get no splash screen

---

### Post by Wattos on 2007-06-17
well, I found a work around to get the splash screen. I conect another monitor an when ubuntu is booting I swith screen to the other monitor and then i switch back to the laptop screen and voila, the slash screen appears.


Anyone hasve any idea why and how to fix it?

---

### Post by Wattos on 2007-06-18
[COLOR="Red"]**WARNING:**[/COLOR]

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=1289009&posted=1#post1289009](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=1289009&posted=1#post1289009)

I could not get the Nvidia drivers to work. (100.14.09) There does not seem to be a solution at the moment. 

Next thing I do is trying to get the cdrom to work and Ill post the results

---

### Post by Fortean on 2007-06-19
Nvidia drivers work perfectly, but only after removing all nvidia-related modules (using synaptic, for example). Use the latest drivers ONLY, the ones in the repositories are not the latest version. Download the drivers from nvidia.com, build them for your kernel (apt-get install build-essential first) and you should be ready to go.

Wireless works fine using ndiswrapper, even WPA is working without any problems.

---

### Post by Fortean on 2007-06-19
Btw this is my xorg.conf:

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Sat May 26 01:04:16 PDT 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
#    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
#    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "pt"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
    Option         "SHMConfig" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 64.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "On"
    Option         "RenderAccel" "true"
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x800" "1280x768"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Wattos on 2007-06-19
well, I thought I did. If you confirm that they work, Ill try again.

btw, does your cd rom drive work?

btw. why are you running 1280 x 800 only>

oh and could you do a nvidia-bug-report and post the log? that would help a ton

---

### Post by Fortean on 2007-06-19
Everything works fine, including the card reader, no drivers or modprobing needed. The only problem I have is inability to suspend and hibernate but I can live without it for the time being.

I'll post the output for you tomorrow, but just try the steps above, just get rid of the built-in drivers, only the latest ones work with the 8600M GS cards. My lcd is wxga btw, 1280x800.

---

### Post by un1x01d on 2007-06-20
how did u install the Wireless card ? i have been trying all day . the intel drivers seems to be bad. so i went the ndiswrapper way.

Installed latest ndiswrapper.
got the latest driver.
NOW!, when i modprobe it i get this:
**loadndisdriver: loadndisdriver: load_driver(358): couldn't load driver netw4x64**

Any ideas ? 

something gives me the feeling it's because it's 64bit.

---

### Post by Fortean on 2007-06-20
Regarding ndiswrapper, I installed it without any problems in 32-bit ubuntu. Sorry, no idea why it doesn't work in 64 bit.

Apologies for saying the cdrom drive works; it does not. there is no ide_cd driver loaded at bootup. Just add:

piix

to /etc/modules.

The only thing I have not been able to use is the webcam but frankly I'm not too bothered, at least until skype puts out a version that supports video. I'm unable to attach the whole output of nvidia-bug-report (over the size limit), but I'd be glad to help you with installing the latest nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by un1x01d on 2007-06-20
great! the piix thingy did it.

Webcam is the next project. right after the 64bit ndiswrapper, any idea when it will be released, officially the 4965 Driver that actually works.

---

### Post by Wattos on 2007-06-21
note, I am having the wxga+ lcd. I doubt it makes a difference but for some reason nvidia drivers dont work. 

Could you please post the steps as I must be a complete idiot. I tied installing the drivers comuple of times, deleting all nvidia packages etc. but still no go here.

---

### Post by Fortean on 2007-06-21
Did you try uninstalling ubuntu-restricted-extras before installing the nvidia drivers from nvidia.com?

---

### Post by un1x01d on 2007-06-26
everything is working perfect for me. but i just noticed a new thing.

i can not see the remaining of the battery left. is there anything special that i need to add ?
it just shows battery status unknown.

Thanks

un1x01d

---

### Post by un1x01d on 2007-06-26
ignore that, it just came back. no idea what happen

---

### Post by Fortean on 2007-06-26
Just one more note, the iwl4965 module (part of the iwlwifi project) compiles and runs perfectly under the latest gutsy kernel.

Has anyone managed to make the camera work? How about suspend and hibernate?

---

### Post by ciphermonk on 2007-06-29
I've gotten the iwl4865 compiled and installed, but when I attempt to insert the module I get the following errors. Any ideas?

[root@euphoria dijital1]# modprobe iwl4965
FATAL: Error inserting iwl4965 (/lib/modules/2.6.21.5/kernel/drivers/net/wireles
s/iwl4965.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
[root@euphoria dijital1]# dmesg
iwl4965: Unknown symbol sta_info_put
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_free_hw
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_alloc_hw
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_register_hw
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_rate_control_unregister
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_wake_queue
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_tx_status_irqsafe
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_rate_control_register
iwl4965: Unknown symbol sta_info_get
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_start_queues
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_tx_status
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_stop_queue
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_stop_queues
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_get_hdrlen
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_scan_completed
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_unregister_hw
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_register_hwmode
iwl4965: Unknown symbol ieee80211_rx_irqsafe
[root@euphoria dijital1]#

---

### Post by un1x01d on 2007-07-01
i Don't know , i use the Ndiswrapper, and it works perfect, i rellay recommend using it untill they come up with better drivers. or build it in to ubuntu.

---

### Post by ciphermonk on 2007-07-01
I've since gotten it working... The procedure that I used to get the card working using the native driver is [http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=159550](http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=159550)

---

### Post by cyberrian on 2007-07-09
Anyone with this Asus F3SV laptop experience frequent lockups while using Ubuntu?

When the system locks up (Kernel panic I'm assuming??), the caps and scroll lock lights will blink in unison repeatedly...

---

### Post by muldy on 2007-07-12
Only when using the intel 4965 wifi driver.

I'm using gutsy now, with ndiswrapper.

My dvd drive was not detected so i added ide-generic to the /etc/modules

---

### Post by Fittersman on 2007-07-12
does your dvd drive work now? and how is 7.10? was there alot of work to get it working properly? 

```
The problem with ubuntu is that the nvidia drivers are not working correctly. The fix I had to do is to boot up failsafe and execute the following command :

mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old | sed 's/nv/vesa/' > /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

what is failsafe mode?


and, has anyone been completely successful in actually getting it to work 100% or is that just not going to happen?

---

### Post by muldy on 2007-07-13
My setup:

Ubuntu gutsy
ndiswrapper for wifi (works / pritty stable), waiting for 4965 driver to work...
nvidia drivers from nvidia site (all ok), the installer took care of configuration, no hard work there
sound has a bit of noise... specially playing mp3, i can ear sound "crackles"

dvd working with ide-generic in the /etc/modules, i read somewhere that piix(?!) in the /etc/modules works too (feisty)

Webcam does not work, not very preoccupying ;)

Visual effects (compiz) does not work, because of a know bug (i think), so i have disabled them.

I can post my xorg.conf, when i get home, but i never edited it ;)


PS: Quake4 works excelent in the f3sv 8), enemy territory has no sound.

---

### Post by Fittersman on 2007-07-13
sounds like ill have to give 7.10 a shot when my internet stops acting like this and it will let me download it without disconnecting and forcing my download to stop

---

### Post by cyberrian on 2007-07-14
I can confirm that the dvd drive works with 7.10 Feisty.
Just add "piix" in /etc/modules

I'm still experiencing lockups though, but not as frequent now. 

Not using the internal 802.11abgn wireless but a usb wireless adapter (Linksys 802.11b; works out-of-the-box).
Not using ndiswrapper and only using vesa drivers for video, hoping to isolate the cause of the lockup.

Any idea which log file I should examine to get a clue of why my system is ocassionally locking up?
Again, when the system dies, caps and scroll lock lights repeatedly blink in unison; the only way is to hold down power button to shut off system.

---

### Post by Mouth on 2007-10-11
What's the status on {K}Ubuntu on the F3SV? Does {most|every}thing work from a standard CD install with the 7.10 beta released late last month? If not, is it expect to all work with the 7.10 final in a few days?

I have an empty partition ready and waiting :)

---

### Post by bedwetter on 2007-10-13
Pretty much everything works for me with Feisty, once I installed the Nvidia drivers using Envy and upgraded to the newest kernel.  The only problems I have are:

-crackly sound in some games and movies
-can't burn cd's (haven't tried burning a dvd yet)
-suspend and hibernate don't work

---

### Post by 0graham0 on 2007-10-22
Working on an F3SV for a client...installed Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy...

Got the wireless working using drivers from [http://intellinuxwireless.org/](http://intellinuxwireless.org/) (I think these were actually pre-installed with gutsy, or my co-worker may have installed them)...

either way, all I had to do to start up wireless (i've only tested this on an unsecured wireless network) was open and terminal and run:```
sudo modprobe mac80211
```

The webcam is working via a slightly changed version of the instructions on:[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=451200&highlight=syntek&page=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=451200&highlight=syntek&page=1) (much thanks to 
chunchengch!)

Follow instructions #1-#3 on that page, and then instead of instruction #4-#6 I followed this process:

4. I downloaded the driver at [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=178178](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=178178) , expanded the archive on the desktop and renamed the folder from "stk11xx-1.1.0" to "camdriver". I then opened the terminal and ran:
```
cd Desktop
sudo mv camdriver /etc/
cd /etc/camdriver
sudo make
sudo modprobe videodev
sudo modprobe v4l1-compat
sudo insmod stk11xx.ko
```

5.Press ALT+F2 and execute ‘gksu gedit /etc/modules’ then add the lines and save:
# modules for infrastructure to support the video
videodev
v4l1-compat

6.Press ALT+F2 and execute ‘gksu gedit /etc/rc.local’ then add the following line:
insmod /etc/camdriver/stk11xx.ko
(this line must be added before last line “ exit 0 ”)

7. Reboot and then open Camorama (Applications -> Graphics -> Camorama

---

### Post by Fittersman on 2007-10-22
> **0graham0 said:**
> Working on an F3SV for a client...installed Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy...

Got the wireless working using drivers from [http://intellinuxwireless.org/](http://intellinuxwireless.org/) (I think these were actually pre-installed with gutsy, or my co-worker may have installed them)...

either way, all I had to do to start up wireless (i've only tested this on an unsecured wireless network) was open and terminal and run:```
sudo modprobe mac80211
```

The webcam is working via a slightly changed version of the instructions on:[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=451200&highlight=syntek&page=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=451200&highlight=syntek&page=1) (much thanks to 
chunchengch!)

Follow instructions #1-#3 on that page, and then instead of instruction #4-#6 I followed this process:

4. I downloaded the driver at [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=178178](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=178178) , expanded the archive on the desktop and renamed the folder from "stk11xx-1.1.0" to "camdriver". I then opened the terminal and ran:
```
cd Desktop
sudo mv camdriver /etc/
cd /etc/camdriver
sudo make
sudo modprobe videodev
sudo modprobe v4l1-compat
sudo insmod stk11xx.ko
```

5.Press ALT+F2 and execute ‘gksu gedit /etc/modules’ then add the lines and save:
# modules for infrastructure to support the video
videodev
v4l1-compat

6.Press ALT+F2 and execute ‘gksu gedit /etc/rc.local’ then add the following line:
insmod /etc/camdriver/stk11xx.ko
(this line must be added before last line “ exit 0 ”)

7. Reboot and then open Camorama (Applications -> Graphics -> Camorama

my wireless worked out of the box, but the graphics did not. just a question about the camera, my camera is not made by synatek or however i spell that, so i dont think this guide will work for my webcam, so just to everyone else out there make sure you know your webcam manufacturer before you start.

my guide on how to get the nvidia driver working is on:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580771](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580771)

---

### Post by 0graham0 on 2007-10-22
> **Fittersman said:**
> my camera is not made by synatek or however i spell that, so i dont think this guide will work for my webcam, so just to everyone else out there make sure you know your webcam manufacturer before you start.

Hi,

I'm not sure who makes this camera, it doesnt say synatek when i lsusb. All I get is:

Bus 001 Device 002: ID 174f:6a31

However, those instructions seem to work nonetheless...

---

### Post by 0graham0 on 2007-10-22
Also, I was wondering how folks have been doing on getting their monitor refresh rates up? I started a thread on the topic here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3603607](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3603607)

---

### Post by Fittersman on 2007-10-22
under aMSN the cam has color, so its probably just the camera program you got installed there.

also, do you mind if i use your instructions in that how-to i wrote? ill give you credit if you want/dont want and ill add anything else you might want to comment on or anything.

---

### Post by _maydayjay_ on 2007-11-03
If anyone is having issues with a 4GB system, I solved the problem I was having by bringing my system up to the latest BIOS from ASUS.  I sent them an email detailing a problem along with referenced sections of the PM965 chip design and implementation and focused on the large memory support section.  
Originally, I couldn't get the BIOS to address anything beyond 3MB properly.  Without this update, you couldn't install anything other than Vista with more than 3GB ram without a conflict with ICH8.  Anyhow, they emailed me back thanking me for the information and presented a fix to me within a week of the request....I think that's pretty good service!

---

### Post by eraserpt on 2008-04-26
Hey guys, sorry to bring this post back, but i would like to know how did you guys manage to get sound on ubuntu I just bought a asus f3sv and seems impossible to get any sound on ubuntu 8.04 :confused:

---

### Post by Mouth on 2008-04-27
> **eraserpt said:**
> Hey guys, sorry to bring this post back, but i would like to know how did you guys manage to get sound on ubuntu I just bought a asus f3sv and seems impossible to get any sound on ubuntu 8.04 :confused:

Works fine for me, straight from the base install without having to do anything.

```
jason@phantom-laptop:~$ lspci
[...]
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
[...]
```

System | Preferences | Sounds has the device listed as a "HDA Intel"

---

### Post by eraserpt on 2008-04-27
> **Mouth said:**
> Works fine for me, straight from the base install without having to do anything.

```
jason@phantom-laptop:~$ lspci
[...]
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
[...]
```

System | Preferences | Sounds has the device listed as a "HDA Intel"

Thats really weird!!! I have the exact same laptop and audio device but to make it work i had to add the line "options snd-hda-intel model=lenovo" to the end of the file /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base :confused:

How is this possible?

---

### Post by jet200 on 2008-04-27
Hi there Im also having the same sound problem instead of owning the f3sv I have the f3sg it has the same hardware just different processor. Ubuntu detects the sound driver but I cant hear anything and yes sound is not muted.

---

