---
title: "nc6220 hope someone will help me :("
date: 2005-12-31
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by cOmOneO on 2005-12-31
Hello
Does anyone know how i can make my notebook use resolutions above 1024x768?

I have an external monitor hooked up to it, and I need the resolution 1280x1024.
But nomatter what I do, I can not choose an resolution above 1024x768 :(

I have altered my xorg.conf
I have tried to use 855resolution and 955resolution, but with no luck. I simply cant make them work.

I will be happy to just be able to choose a resolution above 1024x768. I dont need any fancy auto-resolution-change when i take the notebook to and from the dockingstation. I do that so rarely that i can change the resolution manually.

I use the FN + F4 key-combination to shutdown the notebooks primary monitor, but still I cannot choose a higher resolution.

This is my first attempt at Linux, so I would be very happy if any solutions are made understanable to people that has no knowledge of working with linux at all.

To anyone who make en attempt to help me. Here's a BIG "THANK YOU SO MUCH" in advance.

I cant stand this low resolution anymore ;)

The external monitor is a HP L1925 if that is any help.
And the videocard is the intel version not ATI
I can post any other information about the system, that you might need to help me. Just say the word and you got it ;)
But since I dont know whats wrong i cant post anymore information right now.

---

### Post by mips on 2005-12-31
Post your xorg.conf here.

---

### Post by vasudevank on 2005-12-31
try xorgconfig and set the resolution higher

---

### Post by cOmOneO on 2006-01-01
Ok... here it comes ;)

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"dk"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Standard Sk&#230;rm"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
	Monitor		"Standard Sk&#230;rm"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024""1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


A direct copy/paste.

vasudevank -> Where am I surpossed to enter that command? I tried it in the terminal, both with and without sudo, but the result was: command not found
Is there something I have to install?
[Alittle-offtopic]I get that alot. Last was when i was trying to install gftp. I did exactly as I should according to the website where i got gftp, but none of the command worked.... But that's another story. As long a we can somehow fix this resolution problem, i'm sure i will be able to do something about the rest.[/Alittle-offtopic]

Best regards
Mathias Nielsen

---

### Post by er-ku on 2006-01-01
[QUOTE=cOmOneO]Hello
Does anyone know how i can make my notebook use resolutions above 1024x768?

I have an external monitor hooked up to it, and I need the resolution 1280x1024.
But nomatter what I do, I can not choose an resolution above 1024x768 :(

I have altered my xorg.conf
I have tried to use 855resolution and 955resolution, but with no luck. I simply cant make them work.
[/QUOTE]

One possible reason for that is that there's not enough shared RAM reserved as Video RAM. Try visiting BIOS of your laptop, and look up a relevant setting there. Unfortunately, I don't know/remember where it is in BIOS, but it's probably in "Integrated devices" or sth. It should tell something about reserved Video RAM. Increase it. If you have enough RAM, try increasing this setting to the maximum value (I doubt it would go beyond 128 or 256MB). Don't forget though, that you will have that number less RAM for other system purposes.

**Also**, you may try adding a VideoRam parameter to your xorg.conf like this:
```

Section "Device"
    Identifier "Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
    Driver "i810"
    BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
    # Let's say we have 128MB of VRAM. For 64MB that would say 65536
    VideoRam 131072
EndSection

```

Hope this helps. Happy new year! :)

---

### Post by cOmOneO on 2006-01-01
er-ku ->
There is no options for my GFX in the "ROM based setup" so thats a no-go.
I have tried to add videoram to my xorg.conf and with no result :(

I dont think it is the amount of memory available to the card that is the issue here. The laptops own monitor has a maximum resolution of 1024x768 and the trick must be to tell the system that there is an external monitor hokked up, and that this monitor is cabable of running 1280x1024.

A solution where both monitors are running 1280x1024, and the laptops monitor is "faking" it by letting the desktop be larger than the screen, and letting you scroll over it by touching the edges of the screen with the mouse. would also work great. Im not sure what that is called, but I hope you get the idea.
I could then just switch back to 1024x768 when i take the lappy out of the docking station.

But thanks for giving it a shot er-ku and happy newyear to you to (and the rest of you by the way)

---

### Post by mips on 2006-01-02
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=82031](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=82031)
[http://astibharath.org/blog/ubuntu-breezy-on-hp-nc6220/](http://astibharath.org/blog/ubuntu-breezy-on-hp-nc6220/)
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Gentoo_on_HP_Compaq_nc6220](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Gentoo_on_HP_Compaq_nc6220)

Try googling 'Linux on nc6220'

---

### Post by tytus on 2006-10-14
Did you get your external monitor to disaply anything above 1024x768? I have exactly the same problem...

I would greatly appreciate if you could respond.

Thanks

---

### Post by tytus on 2006-10-25
I got my external monitor to work with 1600x1200 (sort of) I had to boot with the external monitor connected and and use fn+F4 to switch to the external monitor bofore X started.

---

