---
title: "Trying to (perfectly) fit the desktop into the screen"
date: 2008-01-27
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by horkoser on 2008-01-27
Hello everybody,

I have installed Ubuntu 7.10 on a toshiba A2O laptop with trident cyberblade video chipset. The annoyance is that the desktop is displaced to the right a few pixels. Although I can live with that, I would prefer to fit the desktop to the screen, as ten when the windows are maximized the bar scroll of them, is some pixels out of the screen (and of course there is a few milimeters vertical line on the left side of the screen. With other distros (openSUSE, Mandriva, PCLOS), this problem does not appear. Although some time ago I tried to fix it myself, I think that did not find any difference in the xorg.conf file generated by the distros. But I think that modifying the xorg.conf perhaps this problem would dissapear. Perhaps is it a frecuence rat problem?
Could anybody give me an answer?

TIA.

Horkoser

---

### Post by horkoser on 2008-01-27
The video related part of the xorg.conf is this one:


Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1"
        Driver          "trident"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Perhaps someone can help to move the screen several pixels  (perphaps not more than five) to the left of the screen to fit the desktop on the surface of the screen?

Horkoser.

---

### Post by derrick81787 on 2008-01-28
You should just click on the auto adjust button on your monitor, if it has one. You could also manually adjust the settings on any monitor I've ever seen.  Just hit then menu button that is located somewhere on the monitor and follow the directioins.

This same thing has happened to me occasionally after installing new video drivers.  I don't really think it's an Ubuntu related problem.  Once you adjust it, it shouldn't bother you again.

- Derrick

---

### Post by horkoser on 2008-01-28
As I mentioned in the first post, it is a laptop computer without any button on the display.

This "problem" also appear with Mint (a ubuntu derivated distro), but not with others distros (Mandriva, SUSE, PCLOS)

Thanks Derrick.

Horkoser.

---

### Post by derrick81787 on 2008-01-28
> **horkoser said:**
> As I mentioned in the first post, it is a laptop computer without any button on the display.

This "problem" also appear with Mint (a ubuntu derivated distro), but not with others distros (Mandriva, SUSE, PCLOS)

Thanks Derrick.

Horkoser.

Yeah, I guess I wasn't thinking straight.  That would be a problem then.  I don't really know what could be done about that.  I wouldn't be surprised if there are some settings you could set in your xorg.conf to fix that issue, such as a certain offset for screen placement or something, but I have no idea what they would be.  Sorry bout that.

- Derrick

---

### Post by Curtisc on 2008-01-28
I had an issue like this on my desktop... for no apparent reason, the screen started loading about 20 px too low.  Changing the screen resolution to something else and then back again didn't help through the GUI, but for whatever reason, it did on the command line.  So, assuming your resultion is 1024x768, try:
```
xrandr --size 800x600
xrandr --size 1024x768
```

On my machine, this fixed it.  I was going to look more in depth into a real solution so that I didn't have to do this every reboot, but it fixed itself.  In any case, it might be worth trying for you.

---

### Post by horkoser on 2008-01-29
I will try your trick as soon I came back home. Yes, my problem is quite similar, only that the desktop is misplaced to the right side, instead to the botom.

I will tell my experience as soon as possible.

Thanks for your answer.

---

