---
title: "TV-out with an ATI card"
date: 2005-04-12
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Michael_Grosberg on 2005-04-12
I have a Radeon 9600xt and I'm trying to use Hoary to watch Divx movies on the TV.

After  a lot of fiddling around with Hoary and the various ATI drivers I managed to get Ubuntu to show *something* on my TV. I downloaded and installed the latest ATI proprietary driver - 10.19.2 I think - and used fglrxconfig to configure it to clone mode. I had to fix some lines in xorg.conf to make it work (vertical refresh on the TV came out as "null" for some reason, and the keyboard wasn't configured properly).

Now what I see is a clone of my desktop, but:
I have a 1280X960 resolution on my CRT. I assume the TV's resolution is, I dunno, 640X480?
Well instead of seeing my desktop resized to fit the TV screen, I just see a part of it, and when I move the mouse the view pans around, like a virtual desktop would behave.

Is there some way to set it up so the view is rescaled properly? I  will try to get a "Big desktop" working tonight instead.

I also would like to know how to get movies to render correctly on both screens. I googled and  found out if I add the option "OverlayOnCRTC2" then movies will render on the TV but then the CRT draws a blank rectangle where the movie should be. Any way to get the movie to play on both?

I have another question about the xorg.conf file: the one generated by fglrxconfig is different than the original one not only in the monitor, device, screen sections but also in the "files", "font" etc. What should I do about it? Should I cut those sections from the original and paste it into the new file? Where do I learn the meaning of all those files it loads?

---

