---
title: "6.06 on Toshiba A30 with P4 cpu."
date: 2006-11-14
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Dale61 on 2006-11-14
Having installed 6.06 on my A30 some 8-10 weeks ago, I have finally been able to get an internet connection, thanks to a Linux savvy employee at my local pc repair shop.

Since it's return, I have been downloading the updates as indicated (all 265 of them), and the laptop has been running sweet.

Having spent 95% of the time with these forums open, I've been able to read up on what to and what not to install, and each day provides me with more knowledge of what to do when using Ubuntu.

However, I am now having a problem with an unexpected, and abrupt, shutdown of the laptop.

I have most of my music converted to MP3, and on my desktop I use a program called Songbird.  Once all the updates were installed on the laptop, I proceeded to install Songbird without a problem.  All runs smoothly until I try to open Swiftfox, or Thunderbird, and this is when the fans crank to the max, with the laptop shutting down soon after.

I have found that it's not Songbird related as the same thing occurs if I use XMMS as the default MP3 player as well.  Now, for example, if I'm listening to music whilst reading email, I have to ensure the system monitor is open so that when the music program (XMMS) locks up, forcing the fans to max out, I have to kill the process BEFORE the laptop shuts down completely.

As the laptop has a P4 @ 2.80GHz cpu, I'm wondering whether it has anything to do with having the 686 image installed as opposed to the 386.  Everything I've read suggested the 686 was the right image to run with a P4, but now I'm having doubts.

RAM shouldn't be a problem as I have 768meg, and I have a small fan blowing on to the back of the laptop to assist with cooling.

Apologies for such a long post, but at least the problem has been fully explained, and if anyone has any suggestions as to what may be causing the problem, it would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by zgornel on 2006-11-14
It might be hardware related problem and not a linux (kernel) one. Did you experience the problem while running the 386 kernel ? Download and use the 386 kernel, see if it leads you to the same computer shutdown. Check the bios temperatures or simply check how hot is the air coming out from the laptop.

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2006-11-14
It was because of this problem that prompted me to go with the 686 kernel as opposed to the 386.

I've started to run the CPU Scaling Frequency Monitor, and what that shows is when I have one thing open (Swiftfox or T-Bird or XMMS or anything else), the monitor indicates that the cpu is a steady 1.60GHz.  However, once I attempt to open a second program (or even refresh this forum) with XMMS already running, the cpu spikes at 2.79GHz, the fans kick in and I have to use the system monitor to shut down XMMS before the laptop shuts down.

I'm thinking that this particular was never intended to run Linux, but if there is a fix, I'm prepared to try anything, as long as it doesn't involve a complete re-install.

---

### Post by zgornel on 2006-11-15
Seems to me it is a overheating problem. When CPU load becomes high, the processor scales from 1.6GHz to 2.8 . 2.8 GHz means more power consumption, more heat --> shutdown. Have you any means of checking the processor temperature ? As a temporary solution, go here and check out how to put the processor in power saving mode (permanent) [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=265335](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=265335) ,so it will never reach 2.8 GHZ.

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2006-11-15
Thanks mate.

Checked out the link and I will most likely return to it, but what I failed to mention was my problem, at this stage, only occurs when on ac power.

I'm yet to even power up on battery since I got the laptop back from the shop (sorting out and resolving internet connection woes), so I want to have the laptop running 100%, or as close to it as possible, before I start running on battery.

I've just checked the Synaptics list and I already have laptop-mode-tools installed, but the package description indicates that it is a feature that allows your laptop to save considerable power, by allowing the hard
drive to spin down for longer periods of time.

Again, my problem is that I get a split second spike of the CPU to 2.79GHz, the fans max out, and if XMMS was running, it would lock up XMMS causing the fans to remain maxed out, with an eventual complete shutdown of the laptop, unless I end the XMMS process via the System Monitor.

Overheating shouldn't be the problem as I have the laptop slightly elevated above the desk level, and it is getting plenty of air flow with the assistance of a small USB powered (from my desktop) fan.

Here's what I get from the linked forum:
BATT_CPU_MAXFREQ=fastest
BATT_CPU_MINFREQ=slowest
BATT_CPU_GOVERNOR=conservative
LM_AC_CPU_MAXFREQ=fastest
LM_AC_CPU_MINFREQ=slowest
LM_AC_CPU_GOVERNOR=ondemand
NOLM_AC_CPU_MAXFREQ=fastest
NOLM_AC_CPU_MINFREQ=slowest
NOLM_AC_CPU_GOVERNOR=performance

If it helps, I can always post the full read-out of my /etc/laptop-mode/laptop-mode.conf file.

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2006-11-17
Seems like I may have found a fix.

Rather than use three or four different players for three or four different tasks, I've found that Xine Movie Player will play CD's, MP3's, and both encoded and non-coded(?) DVD's.

The CPU remains at a steady 1.60GHz, but I haven't really given it a decent workout whilst playing music.

Stay tuned...

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2006-11-17
I have a Toshiba Sat Pro that is a couple of years old , it also has a P4, but I'm using the 386 kernel, no problems of that sort.  Just the keyboard becomes hot. But I found a fix using sudo toshset -fan 6 (low speed) -fan 4 (high speed) to cool down.

I don't know if this helps.  I also have to run on AC Power since my battery does not hold charge anymore.

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2006-11-17
I read somewhere that any Toshiba laptop with a Phoenix M/B is not a real Toshiba at all, so there are no guarantees that any HowTo's for Phoenix M/B'd Toshiba laptops will actually work.

Therefore, I'm not entirely convinced that it was an overheating problem that was causing the shutdowns.

Now that I'm able to listen to my MP3's whilst surfing/reading emails/editing digital photo's, etc, WITHOUT the music player (Xine) locking up, I'm going to leave until someone can convince me otherwise.

scrooge_74, I had the 386 kernel installed when I first encountered this problem, and as the dscription for the 686 kernel states it is for P4 CPU's, I installed that in the hope it would fix the problem.  I've also read on numerous threads here that the 686 is the best kernel for P4's, so that's why I upgraded.  Afterall, if the 'experts' recommended it, why doubt them?

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2006-11-17
Dale, I have come to the conclusion that Linux is like cooking, you can be a great chef or a cook at home type of guy. We can all  have the recepies, and the ingredients, but every meal is going to come out just a bit different.

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2006-11-17
That's a great analogy scrooge.

I think the problem these forums have is that there are too many cooks with differing ideas and suggestions.

I'm also getting the impression that 6.06 is being pushed to the back of the class as more people turn to 6.10.  Maybe there should be a forum for each as when I went looking for this thread this morning, it was on page 10.

Anyway, I'll keep working through different ideas and see how they affect the performance of my laptop.  I don't want to stray too far from how it's set up now as it was a total headache in getting it online.

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2006-11-18
You are right, I see lots of meesages about 6.10, specially newbies.  I usually don't try any new software for a while since I am not that good at Linux yet.

I would still be using Debian Sarge with backports if my motherboard did not die on me. I prefer to learn how to manage a tested program than to be experimenting with something that is still not yet ready.

Last night a installed the 686 kernel and have not experience any problems, in fact my laptop is booting a lot more faster.  

I told you to many different recepies, slightly different ingredientes and condiments, and remember to keep the flame low so you don't over cook your meal.  

Have fun and good luck

---

### Post by davesmith on 2006-11-23
The tosh satellite A30 runs two 4-speed fans because the 3.04Ghz 32-bit chip is fast and it does get hot. The chip is hard coded to shut the m/c down if the temperature reaches a pre-defined level.

However, all that fan power sucks air into the heat-sink and if there is any housedust it gets trapped in the heatsink vanes...gradually they get blocked and work less efficiently and the m/c gets hotter sooner and shuts down more often.

The solution is to remove the cover over the cooling unit underneath the laptop and examine the chip heatsink vanes.  If they are clogged with dust, try blowing them out with a can of air, or suction with a vacuum cleaner pipe or a combination.

Try at your own risk, but it works, particularly if the heatsink vanes are blocked. Dont forget to screw the cover plate back on.

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2006-11-23
Thx for all the responses, but I just found out that after 36 payments of $A140.00 ($A5040.00) for a $2500 laptop, if I want to take ownership, I'm still up for at least another $A500  (Approx total - $A5540.00).

At this stage, I've decided I'm going to hand it back rather than fork out more money, so I'm not going to bother trying to sort out any more problems.  It's working ok now, so I'll leave it as it is.

---

