---
title: "5.10 Live doesn't work on Compaq Armada E500"
date: 2005-11-14
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by unwiredbrain on 2005-11-14
Hi to everyone.

My name is Massimo, I'm a high-school student living in Palermo, Italy.
Yesterday I received the box (ooh, yeeeeahh!:KS) from *ShipIt*, and -- you know -- I was so impatient to try it! But... it doesn't work properly!

Ok, I know that my configuration is not the best ever, but I thought that a distro so strong as Ubuntu would work well on...

Ok. Let's get technical: the laptop i use is powered by a Intel Pentium III (Coppermine) @ 500 MHz, 128 MB of RAM, CD-ROM drive Teac "CD-224E" 24x, graphic card ATI Rage Mobility P/M AGP 2x, Synaptics touchpad and Logitech "S48" PS/2 Wheel Mouse.

When I try to run **Ubuntu 5.10 Live**, the boot starts normally, tries to recognise all the components and so on, all successful.
But, after anything is done, trying to start the X server, an error message appears, saying something like: "Attention! **X Server crashed**! Would you like to view the kernel messages about that?":-s -- I got horrified...:shock:
Answering yes or no is the same, 'cause in both cases I get an amazing list of text showing off all the kernel messages, even if I haven't requested that!:???:
At this point I really don't know what's going on...
At the end, in the middle of the screen appers the common linux textual shell.

Now, let's get back to the boot screen: if I add *live* in the boot prompt and then hit Return, the **X Server works**, but the system slow down so much that **it takes up to 15 seconds to move the mouse pointer** of just some pixels! Moreover, the **HD never stops reading/writing, the CD drive makes some strage sounds, like in constant search of something**! Oh, my God, there's Evil inside! -- just kidding;)

Two quick notes;
[LIST=1]
[*]A friend told me that this kind of problems are caused by conflicts between graphic card RAM and system RAM: could it be possible? If yes, how can I fix that?
[*]Using eduKnoppix 2.1.3, KDE starts with absolutely no problems! Reading the kernel messages during the boot, I understood that it used **XFree86(ATI) Server**: could it be related to the troubles I met?
[/LIST] 

Is there anyone able to explain me what appened? Or where i made the mistake? Pay attention: I'm a beginner.

Thank you for the time you would give me.
--
Massimo

---

### Post by Grave on 2005-11-19
I have the same problem as well ... since i cant find any info i'm running on my previous ubunto release (5.04).
Altough I have the same error showing up it not the same latop model, mine has ati video driver and its a p4.

---

### Post by unwiredbrain on 2005-11-19
Grave,

Maybe it is a problem that resides in the original Debian build: Ubuntu is a "manipulated" Debian distro... So, because of nobody manifested (until some days ago ;)) our problem, we would never get sufficient support! I'll show the problem to the Debian community: I hope I'll get an answer (finally)...

Best regards
--
Massimo

---

### Post by Elv13 on 2005-11-20
it work on mine

Armada E500 
p3 700mhz
randeon 6500
1400x1050 display
linksys wireless

ok, its not a normal E500 but its an E500

---

### Post by unwiredbrain on 2005-11-21
**DHO!**
:(:(:(:(:(
What's wrong with my Compaq????

what a day of sadness...
--
Massimo

---

### Post by Grave on 2005-11-21
I was digging some more on the foruns and found out another thread about this. The best thing is that the method one of the guys posted there actually worked.
I dont know how those changes will afect the PC in the long term but it seems to be ok. The only thing I dont like is having a low resolution :/ ( 1024x768 )

Heres the link:
[blablabla]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=90958&highlight=server+error")

What i did was kinda of a mix between the big explaining post and the info from the a link there (both helped me understande each other).

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by bin on 2005-11-22
[QUOTE=unwiredbrain] the laptop i use is powered by a Intel Pentium III (Coppermine) @ 500 MHz, 128 MB of RAM, CD-ROM drive Teac "CD-224E" 24x, graphic card ATI Rage Mobility P/M AGP 2x, Synaptics touchpad and Logitech "S48" PS/2 Wheel Mouse.
Moreover, the **HD never stops reading/writing, the CD drive makes some strage sounds, like in constant search of something**! [/QUOTE]

This is an absolutely bog standard Compaq and just about any linux on the planet works well on it. However, the symptom you describe is one I've come across on Compaq laptops of this type and age. The CD just keeps shuffling back and forth trying to read and eventually gives up. It's partly due to wear and tear in the drive and partly down to mass produced CD's. I always get this with SUSE CD's, but never with ISO's burned on a PC. If you know anyone who can download and burn it locally for you it's worth go - however, it may be better to get the full install. You will find that it will run, but there will be a lot of disk activity in GNOME as 128mb is really the bottom limit for a heavyweight GUI. 

in light

bin

---

