---
title: "nvidia go 6600 problem. no screens found"
date: 2007-06-27
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by semuren on 2007-06-27
Hi
I just installed Ubuntu 7.04 on my laptop, and have some problems with my Geforce go6600 card.
I have tried to install the drivers on different ways that i found on this forum but each time I get the same error, and X will not start after reboot.

here is the error I get:

(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(==) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "NoLogo" "True"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
(EE) NVIDIA(0): The NVIDIA kernel module does not appear to be receiving
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     interrupts generated by the NVIDIA graphics device
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     PCI:1:0:0.  Please see Chapter 5: Common Problems in the
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     README for additional information.
(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA graphics device!
(EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
(II) UnloadModule: "ramdac"
(II) UnloadModule: "fb"
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

Fatal server error:
no screens found

can someone please help me?

---

### Post by semuren on 2007-06-29
When I try to run glxgears in terminal i get this message:

Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual

---

