---
title: "7.10 /usr/lib/cups/backend/hal failed"
date: 2007-12-04
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by j0rdanj on 2007-12-04
Hi!

My Printer worked fine unter Ubuntu 6.10 and afterwards with debian, but the new automatic detection with hal seems to have some bugs.

Printer is a Kyocera FS-1010, is correctly automatically detected and is listed in cups:

Beschreibung: Kyocera FS-1010
Ort: Local Printer
Marke und Modell: Kyocera FS-1010 - CUPS+Gutenprint v5.0.1
Druckerstatus: frei, Aufträge akzeptieren, publiziert.
Geräte URI: hal:///org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_482_3_XAL4236975_if0_printer_noserial

But when i try to print anything, cups shows /usr/lib/cups/backend/hal failed

And the only message in the cups error log regarding this is:
[Job 19] Backend returned status 1 (failed)

I tried to uninstall the cups-hal package, but then the printer is not recognized any more.

Does anyone know how to fix this?

Best regards

---

### Post by Friek on 2007-12-06
Maybe apparmor is set too tight for the backend to run. Check dmesg to see if it says anything about it.

If it does, you can edit  /etc/apparmor.d/usr.sbin.cupsd to add the backend driver. Additionally, you can disable apparmor temporarily to test if it works alright then (run sudo /etc/init.d/apparmor stop to unload the rules).

---

### Post by j0rdanj on 2007-12-06
Hi,

yes, there were some errors, but i already disabled apparmor and SELinux and now the messages have dissapeared but i still get the same error message.

---

