---
title: "TTY out of range"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by dietrying on 2007-10-20
my problem is, that for me it's not possible to get into a TTY, because that sets my monitor out of range (pressing STRG+ALT+ F1-F**)
normally i thought to change the grub vga-mode, but this doesn't work either. I tryed to switch from nvidia to nv driver with the graphical tool (wich made only problems on any of five Computers i tried gutsy....), but the settings allways change back automatically. Anyway- i will try it with dpkg-reconfigure soon, but this wouldn't solve my problem because i need 3d functions........:confused:

please help!

---

### Post by dietrying on 2007-10-20
bump

---

### Post by El Chupacabras on 2007-10-20
I think it may be the same bug described here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=454392](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=454392),
here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/129910](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/129910) ,
and here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/135613](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/135613).

Apparently some developer decided to incorporate the frame buffer into the kernel rather than have it loaded as a module, and now its dependencies aren't being loaded in the start up scripts. (*whoops*)

If you still have the old kernel from Feisty, downgrade to it. If you were like me and uninstalled it, wait for a fix, try one of the weird hacks on the bug pages, or say good bye to your tty's.

I partially fixed it to the point where I get a blinking cursor at all the tty's. I'm "unfixing" it and waiting for an update to come out. (The bug is marked as critical, so it should be fixed soon.)

[EDIT: If [fixed it](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3592792#post3592792)! Click the link to see how!]

---

### Post by dietrying on 2007-10-21
thanx for the reply El Chupacabras.
I also found these bugreports but i think the problem i have is a different one because i don't have any vga=xxx option in my menu.list for GRUB, and if i press ctrl+alt+F1-6 i only get a blank screen with out of range message on the screen. I think it is a bug in the nvidia driver but I'm not completely shure.

in my 6 Years of using linux i never saw something like this.......normaly x says out of range and then you can solve it with the virtual terminal...:) this is right the other way around.......

anyway.......now i have to use the nv driver without acceleration....

some other ideas??

---

### Post by El Chupacabras on 2007-10-21
I don't have a vga line in my GRUB either.
For some reason, though, I no longer get the OUT OF RANGE error from my Monitor, but all I get is a blinking cursor at all the terminals.

---

### Post by dietrying on 2007-10-21
strange......
i can use my tty's (tried to shutdown with tty) but can't see what i'm typing. Are you also able to use your terminals? 
:confused:

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2007-10-21
please post your xorg.conf file.

```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by dietrying on 2007-10-21
here comes my xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "de"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Standardbildschirm"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 65.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NV44A [GeForce 6200]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NV44A [GeForce 6200]"
    Monitor        "Standardbildschirm"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2007-10-21
There doesn't seem to be a section that X would use to determine default fonts, which i common when running a binary (not from the repos) nvidia video driver.

Maybe adding something like this

```
Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection
```

to your xorg.conf file would help.

Delete the las two lines in you don't have **msttcorefonts** installed.

This should tell the tty terminal what size fonts to use and adjust the resolution accordingly.

I think.

If it doesn't work, just delete this section out or comment everything out so you can come back to it later.

When I first ran an nVidia card, it took me many long weekends to finally learn how to get the system as a whole configured for the nVidia environment. Now I only use the nVidia drivers from the repos.

I hope this works for you. I have had this problem before and this one of the steps I took to correct the issue.

---

### Post by dietrying on 2007-10-21
thanks for trying to help, but this didn't solve my problem. The font section in xorg.conf didn't change anything. 
This problem appeared with gutsy the first time, with feisty everything looked ok.....maybe a nvidia driver problem:confused:

---

### Post by El Chupacabras on 2007-10-21
It's got nothing to do with Xorg. Its a bug in the kernel. You can use the proprietary nvidia driver.
To fix it try this:


1.) edit /etc/initramfs-tools to look like:
fbcon
vesafb
vga16fb

2.) I changed /etc/modprobe.d
blacklist vesafb -> #blacklist vesafb
blacklist vga16fb -> #blacklist vga16fb

3.) sudo update-initramfs -u

If you use the open-source nv driver, change vesafb to nvidiafb.

I have an Nvidia GeForce 7600 GS, and this worked for me.
Try enabling vga16fb if no other method works, as is the case with my computer.

---

### Post by dietrying on 2007-10-21
i tried this fix two times now (it was also described in the bugreport) but it didNt solve my problem. Monitor on TTY still gives out of range / no signal. Thanks for all the help anyway.......i feel little resignated- waiting for new nvidia-drivers](*,)

---

### Post by El Chupacabras on 2007-10-21
Make sure you have the util-linux package installed, and reboot if you have to install it.
$ sudo apt-get install util-linux

Go into tty, type your username in, even if you see nothing, and then your password.
Type backspace a few times. If your computer beeps, it's most likely a framebuffer issue. 

I posted a small guide similar to the above [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3593262#post3593262). **Make sure if you use the proprietary nvidia driver that you use vesafb, not nvidiafb.**

That's all I can do to help you. I hope the issue is fixed soon. :/

---

### Post by dietrying on 2007-10-21
ok, i've tried everything out, all combinations of fb modules and checked xorg several times, but i didn't got this working.
Anyway, if i enter my name and password, pressing backspace brigs beeps- so maybe your right that's really a framebuffer related problem. 

I've to thank very much for the help, even if i didn't solve this so far. Maybe for my desktop system it would be the best solution to switch back to feisty until these issues are solved or to wait til hardy heron.

greetings:popcorn:

---

### Post by dietrying on 2007-10-21
Yeaha, fixed at last!!!!
El Chupacabras, after using your fix I had to put the vga=795 option into the menu list, after that terminal works again........whooo looks good!!
maybe it could be usefulfor some people(special hardwareconfiguration :-) ) to add this to your workaround.
Well thanks a lot!
Greetings
:popcorn::guitar::popcorn:

---

### Post by El Chupacabras on 2007-10-21
I'm glad it worked! 
I'll add something in the guide about the vga line.

[Edit: OOOOH! It turns out I had used start-up manager to change some vga settings in my start up. That's what finally pushed it over the edge]

---

