---
title: "66.6% Non-Contiguous??!"
date: 2007-01-15
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by wilberfan on 2007-01-15
I just had a fsck run and one partition showed a "66.6% non-contiguous" as the boot text flew past!  (I've been moving and sorting lot of music files around...)

a)  Is that something I need to be concerned about??

b)  What would I do about it if it IS a problem?

:-k

---

### Post by oranges2 on 2007-01-15
Satan is in yur hard drive stealin yur clusters O_o

---

### Post by wilberfan on 2007-01-17
> **oranges2 said:**
> Satan is in yur hard drive stealin yur clusters O_o

More like Bill Gates, I think...?   Seriously, I didn't think ext3 partitions could GET that non-contiguous!    What's going on here?    :-k

---

### Post by po0f on 2007-01-18
wilberfan,

How big and how full is this filesystem?  I've never seen an ext3 filesystem get that fragmented, but if it's borderline full, it would explain it.  If at all possible, backup the contents, reformat and/or extend the size of the filesystem, and move your data back over.

---

### Post by pingvin on 2007-01-18
Well I just had fsck forced (after 30 mounts) to run on my 'media' partition - a 200GB ext3 disk I just use for music, videos etc. and that came out at 40% non-contiguous!
```
/dev/hdb1             187G   66G  112G  37% /media/media
```
Which means it's more non-contiguous than it is full :-k 
If I knew anyone with 66GB free and a good network connection I'd try your suggestion.
Does fsck actually sort anything out or just tell you how fragmented it is?

Mike

---

### Post by wilberfan on 2007-01-18
> **po0f said:**
> wilberfan,

How big and how full is this filesystem?  I've never seen an ext3 filesystem get that fragmented, but if it's borderline full, it would explain it.  If at all possible, backup the contents, reformat and/or extend the size of the filesystem, and move your data back over.

That partition has about 24 GB used out of 36 GB total...

---

### Post by pingvin on 2007-02-20
Update:
Another 30 mounts later, it's down to 38% non-contiguous, which must mean ext3 defragments itself very slowly all the time. Most impressive.

Mike

---

