---
title: "Acer Ferrari 4000, ubuntu &quot;blackscreen&quot; on first boot."
date: 2005-12-13
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by elrajrep on 2005-12-13
Hi, Im a linux noob. Installed Ubuntu 5.10 for AMD64 on my laptop (AMD-Turion64/ATI-Radeon X700).

Problem: On first boot i selected Ubuntu from Grub menu, it boots and every checks out ok. Then the screen turns black! I can hear the login-sound and if i try to type my username and password in blind! it plays the welcome-sound.

It seems like the "blackscreen" has something to do with videocard driver, is ATI-Radeon X700 supported by Ubuntu 5.10?

---

### Post by chrislewis85 on 2005-12-13
Hi, 

I'm in exactly the same boat, having installed ubuntu 5.10 today on my 4005WLMi. I've scoured the net trying to find a solution, and apparantly the problem is that ubuntu configures the LCD screen as the secondary monitor and the VGA out as primary (which is obviously incorrect). So as soon as X starts, it switches to the primary monitor, meaning the LCD goes blank.

I've found out that the solution is to add a correcting line to the file xorg.conf, which should be in the folder /etc/x11/ but the recovery console claims this folder does not exist.

I'm a complete linux novice, so can someone more knowledgeable PLEASE post a step-by-step solution to this problem - I know it can be solved from reading other websites - but I can't figure it out!

Thanks in advance,


Chris

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2005-12-13
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommonProblems?highlight=%28problems%29%7C%28common%29](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommonProblems?highlight=%28problems%29%7C%28common%29)

---

### Post by chrislewis85 on 2005-12-13
@teaker1s - thanks mate hadn't spotted that


@ elrajrep - gonna check this out now, will get back to you if I get some success

---

### Post by chrislewis85 on 2005-12-13
Sweet, I got it!!

Ok here we go,

When you get to a black screen as if you were to login, hit Ctrl + Alt + F1 to get the text login. Now login with your chosen username & password you used in the installation.

Once you get the console prompt, type the following: 

"sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" 

this will take you through the setup screens, select all the default options as you go through. After this has completed, you will then have to restart your comp, and when you get back to the black screen, do the same as before to get a text prompt, then type the following:

"sudo pico /etc/X11/xorg.conf"

This will open a text editor with the file contents in it, scroll up with your cursor until you find the Section "Device"

under the line Driver "ati" add the following 2 lines:

Option "CRT2Position" "clone"
Option "MonitorLayout" "LVDS,CRT"

then hit Ctrl O to save the file, make sure it saves ok, then once again restart your pc

If you're as lucky as me, you should find this time that there's no black screen and you're presented with a pretty ubuntu GUI login prompt! Success!!:D

---

### Post by elrajrep on 2005-12-13
It works perfectly :) Superduper.

Thanks

---

### Post by stratoghost on 2005-12-29
Thanks chrislewis85!

I have an Acer TravelMate 4400 and it was having monitor problems. It would boot almost up to the login screen and the screen would turn completely white in about 5 seconds. 

I tried several different things before I tried your solution. Thanks again!

---

### Post by i wuv cutethings on 2005-12-29
hey, guess what! im a noob, i have a ferrari 4005, and i need help too!

i got the grapical user interface working by editing the xorg.conf file, with a little help. im working on the wireless. have either of you got it working yet? i am having a lot of trouble with the ndiswrapper.

also, has anyone experianced visual noise when shutting down?
apprciate any help.

---

### Post by astra2000 on 2006-08-03
> **i wuv cutethings said:**
> hey, guess what! im a noob, i have a ferrari 4005, and i need help too!

i got the grapical user interface working by editing the xorg.conf file, with a little help. im working on the wireless. have either of you got it working yet? i am having a lot of trouble with the ndiswrapper.

also, has anyone experianced visual noise when shutting down?
apprciate any help.

I have too a acer Ferrari 4005i and i have ubuntu 6.06 installed and 90% works.. only wifi not working

here is my xorg.conf


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
   # path to defoma fonts
   FontPath   "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
   Load   "i2c"
   Load   "bitmap"
   Load   "ddc"
   Load   "dri"
   Load   "extmod"
   Load   "freetype"
   Load   "glx"
   Load   "int10"
   Load   "type1"
   Load   "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier   "Generic Keyboard"
   Driver      "kbd"
   Option      "CoreKeyboard"
   Option      "XkbRules"   "xorg"
   Option      "XkbModel"   "pc105"
   Option      "XkbLayout"   "ch"
   Option      "XkbVariant"   "de"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier   "Configured Mouse"
   Driver      "mouse"
   Option      "CorePointer"
   Option      "Device"      "/dev/input/mice"
   Option      "Protocol"      "ExplorerPS/2"
   Option      "ZAxisMapping"      "4 5"
   Option      "Emulate3Buttons"   "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Option          "MetaModes" "1680x1050"
        Option          "CRT2Position" "clone"
        Option          "MonitorLayout" "LVDS,CRT"
      Identifier   "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility X700 (RV410 PCIE)"
   Driver      "ati"
   BusID      "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
   Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
   Option      "DPMS"
   HorizSync   28-84
   VertRefresh   43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
   Identifier   "Default Screen"
   Device      "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility X700 (RV410 PCIE)"
   Monitor      "Generic Monitor"
   DefaultDepth   24
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      1
      Modes           "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      4
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050" 
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      8
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      15
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      16
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      24
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
   Identifier   "Default Layout"
   Screen      "Default Screen"
   InputDevice   "Generic Keyboard"
   InputDevice   "Configured Mouse"
   InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
   InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
   InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
   Mode   0666
EndSection





take care :)

---

### Post by {NmE} on 2006-08-11
Hey guys, this is my first post here, I figured I would put Ubuntu on my laptop instead of Fedora, since it seems to have a better following. lol.. 

Anyway, I have a Acer TravelMate4400 and It took me a long time to get the display to work. I finaly noticed this little part in the config file.

Section "Device"
[COLOR="Red"]Option "MetaModes" "1680x1050"[/COLOR]
Option "CRT2Position" "clone"
Option "MonitorLayout" "LVDS,CRT"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility X700 (RV410 PCIE)"
Driver "ati"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

All i did was put the rez I wanted, 1280x800, and it worked! w00t!

Now I need to get the wireless working...

---

