---
title: "5.1 surround on Realtek AC97??"
date: 2005-05-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by NightwishFreak on 2005-05-05
Good day everyone! I was just wondering if anyone knows whether Hoary supports 5.1 surround on my Realtek AC97 integrated sound. I know that my mobo supports 5.1 surround, and it works in *shudders* windows, but im not sure if I can have it with Hoary. any help would be appreciated  :) (i should probably mention, the drivers are snd-via82xx)

---

### Post by swalsh on 2005-05-06
I have an Audigy Gamer with digital out and I run 5.1 speakers with no problems.  Granted Linux was not designed for media in mind, but I still get great sound out of my speakers.  I read the FAQ on how to get the sound working with no trouble.

---

### Post by kvidell on 2005-05-06
[QUOTE=swalsh]I have an Audigy Gamer with digital out and I run 5.1 speakers with no problems.  Granted Linux was not designed for media in mind, but I still get great sound out of my speakers.  I read the FAQ on how to get the sound working with no trouble.[/QUOTE]
 Where is this faq? *doesn't see it at ubuntuguide*
- Kev

---

### Post by swalsh on 2005-05-06
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=21211&highlight=audigy](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=21211&highlight=audigy)

This should be able to help you out, getting the sound to work.  Once you get that working, just go to the control center in Kubuntu or whatever it is in Ubuntu and change your speaker settings.  I use digital speakers so I had to enable the digital out in the ALSA mixer.  Other than that it should be fairly easy to set up.

---

### Post by NightwishFreak on 2005-05-08
Hello again, just an update, I got my 5.1 to work, ended up i just had to fiddle with my ALSA drivers. thanks to everyone who replied to my question  :grin: 
Long live Ubuntu!

---

