---
title: "best video card for dual display?"
date: 2005-09-13
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by evanc on 2005-09-13
Okay. the only thing keeping me from switching over to Ubuntu (for everything except AutoCAD, anyway) is that I have so far been unable to get my dual display setup working. I went through hours/days of playing around with xorg.conf, I was able to get each video card and display working individually, but never at the same time (and I was able to switch back and forth by commenting out sections of xorg.conf file. 

Anyway eventually I got sick of it and gave up, and I've been using Windows XP only because I've gotten so dependent on a two montior setup.

Also, I've got a compaq presario that has some sort of lock-out on having two AGP cards, so I had to install a 2MB PCI board I bought for 4 bucks at a used computer junk store. It works fine in windows, but in ubuntu I get a bunch of trails and it can't get the resolution it does in windows. So, I'm thinking of buying a new dual-display agp card. 

Can anyone recommend a dual-output AGP video card that's easy to get up and running on Ubuntu? I don't need anything fancy, I don't play any games, but I do use AutoCAD in windows, and I'd like to get into video editing. 

If anyone has bought a card specifically to get dual display working in ubuntu I'd like to hear your story. (and see your config files)

thanks

---

### Post by Nequeo on 2005-09-13
[QUOTE=evanc]Okay. the only thing keeping me from switching over to Ubuntu (for everything except AutoCAD, anyway) is that I have so far been unable to get my dual display setup working. I went through hours/days of playing around with xorg.conf, I was able to get each video card and display working individually, but never at the same time (and I was able to switch back and forth by commenting out sections of xorg.conf file. 

Anyway eventually I got sick of it and gave up, and I've been using Windows XP only because I've gotten so dependent on a two montior setup.

Also, I've got a compaq presario that has some sort of lock-out on having two AGP cards, so I had to install a 2MB PCI board I bought for 4 bucks at a used computer junk store. It works fine in windows, but in ubuntu I get a bunch of trails and it can't get the resolution it does in windows. So, I'm thinking of buying a new dual-display agp card. 

Can anyone recommend a dual-output AGP video card that's easy to get up and running on Ubuntu? I don't need anything fancy, I don't play any games, but I do use AutoCAD in windows, and I'd like to get into video editing. 

If anyone has bought a card specifically to get dual display working in ubuntu I'd like to hear your story. (and see your config files)

thanks[/QUOTE]
 At work I have an NVIDIA GeForce FX 5200 which I'm using for dual display across two 17" TFT monitors. It is like butter on the eyeballs.

This is the relevant section of my xorg.conf file.

```

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
        Monitor         "SyncMaster"
        Option          "TwinView"
        Option "SecondMonitorHorizSync"         "30-65"
        Option "SecondMonitorVertRefresh"       "59-75"
        Option "MetaModes"      "1280x1024, 1280x1024"

```

And that's it... 

I think in general, any recent Nvidia card will do what you want.

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-09-13
I'd agree.  Nvidia has superior driver support when compared to ATI.

---

### Post by evanc on 2005-09-17
Well thanks for the tips.

I went out and bought a e-GeForce 6200 today, hooked it all up

and after about 10 hours of work I've finally got dual-head working. (so satisfying to get something working)


My computer is a Compaq Presario SR1230NX with all the standard crap aside from the new video card and some extra ram.

here's how i got it working, for other's reference:


After installing the hardware, I had to install the new nvidia drivers, from the instructions here: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=57368](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=57368) 
I had absolutely no problem with the instructions there. Worked great.

After that, I had only one screen on, but the desktop was expanded to 2048x768 and scrolled at the sides...

I edited xorg.conf a bunch of different ways before i finally got it... what i had to do as switch the referenced monitor under "screen" to the other monitor... no idea why this worked. anyway, follows is my xorg.conf .... in searching around I wished there were more full xorg.conf files posted, i thought they helped a lot.

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
#	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV40? [Unknown nVidia Card]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
        Option		"NoLogo"
	Option "TwinView"
	Option "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "28-49"
	Option "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "43-72"
	Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024;1024x768,1024x768;800x600,800x600"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

### sony on dvi
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-49
	VertRefresh	43-72
EndSection

### viewsonic on vga
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"G810-5"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Dual Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV40? [Unknown nVidia Card]"
#	Monitor		"G810-5"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	Option "TwinView" "true"
	Option "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "28-49"
	Option "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "43-72"
	Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024;1024x768,1024x768;800x600,800x600"
	Option "TwinViewOrientation" "LeftOf"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Dual Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


---

