---
title: "7.04 has killed my laptop"
date: 2007-04-26
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by diskinetic49 on 2007-04-26
I have an Averatec 3700 that was running happily under 6.10, and after a flawless upgrade to 7.04 on my desktop unit, I decided to take the plunge on the laptop.  After the upgrade, the screen resolution was way off, so I decided to do a clean re-install from a disk of 7.04 (my usual upgrade route).  I don't know what happened, but now my laptop won't even start an Ubuntu install.  I get to the point where X should load, and the machine grinds to a snail's pace.  The main desktop will load in about 15 minutes, and the cursor moves in 2-inch teleports after a second's delay or so.  The problem has gotten progressively worse and now nothing except my DSL disk will even boot up in my CDROM drive, and it can't even find my wireless card anymore.  I have completely wiped the HD and started over with a 6.06 disk, but no go.  Does anyone have any suggestions, or do I simply toss the laptop?

---

### Post by Hendrixski on 2007-04-26
> **diskinetic49 said:**
> I have an Averatec 3700 that was running happily under 6.10, and after a flawless upgrade to 7.04 on my desktop unit, I decided to take the plunge on the laptop.  After the upgrade, the screen resolution was way off, so I decided to do a clean re-install from a disk of 7.04 (my usual upgrade route).  I don't know what happened, but now my laptop won't even start an Ubuntu install.  I get to the point where X should load, and the machine grinds to a snail's pace.  The main desktop will load in about 15 minutes, and the cursor moves in 2-inch teleports after a second's delay or so.  The problem has gotten progressively worse and now nothing except my DSL disk will even boot up in my CDROM drive, and it can't even find my wireless card anymore.  I have completely wiped the HD and started over with a 6.06 disk, but no go.  Does anyone have any suggestions, or do I simply toss the laptop?

Ouch, that sounds like a hardware issue.  I have an Averatec 3150, they're pretty sturdy computers actually, I've had it for about 4 years now.  It upgraded to feisty without a problem.

You said you reinstalled 6.06 and the same problem still happens, so ... there may be a part you need to replace, probably a cable that's been getting progressively looser (from the sounds of it).  I wouldn't toss the laptop though, I'm sure it's probably $40 to fix whatever's wrong.
If you won't, someone on Ebay will buy it, fix it and resell it for double.

---

### Post by Hendrixski on 2007-04-26
P.S.  If you're going to get a new laptop, buy one with Ubuntu preinstalled.  Word on the street is that Dell may start offering those soon.  :-)  If not, system76 sells them as well.

---

### Post by diskinetic49 on 2007-04-26
[QUOTE= ... there may be a part you need to replace, probably a cable that's been getting progressively looser (from the sounds of it). [/QUOTE]

Why did it get "progressively looser" to a critical fail on one upgrade?  I never even had a hiccup from this laptop before.

I do intend to run it by a shop and get it looked at, but when you walk in with a Linux laptop, you might as well be toting plutonium in a sack full of live rabid rats.

---

### Post by BungaMan on 2007-04-27
before you go to the shop, install windows on it and make up something about windows.  You're right that when they hear linux they go "not supported, you probably messed up" and no chance in getting a free replacement.

---

### Post by Hendrixski on 2007-04-27
> **diskinetic49 said:**
> Why did it get "progressively looser" to a critical fail on one upgrade?  I never even had a hiccup from this laptop before.

I do intend to run it by a shop and get it looked at, but when you walk in with a Linux laptop, you might as well be toting plutonium in a sack full of live rabid rats.

Like I said before.  Word on the street is that soon Ubuntu Computers will be on the shelves of Best Buy and Office Max and what not when Dell starts pushing it hardcore.  So then they'll be like "oh yeah, we've heard about this"  and they'll be just as clueless about what to do as they were with Windows.  The difference will be the attitude, soon they'll see Linux as equal (hopefully better) than Windows and will support it all the same.

BTW: if it was the upgrade that caused it then re-installing would have fixed it.  Software doesn't cause hardware to just crap out (that I know of).  Physical things cause hardware to crap out (like shaking a computer, dropping it, stepping on a chord, or even a surge in your power grid).

---

### Post by Workinman57 on 2007-05-02
My Dell C840 Latitude Lost the CDRW after fresh 7.04 install. I Also installed the "Resricted NVida Video Driver and that black out screen. I tried to repair, but I am lazy. I booted laptop with a IBM HDD Manager disk and killed the boot partion. Then reinstalled Ubuntu. CD still dead video back. Looking for fix in forums. I have 2 drive caddys so I know cd works as I have a windows install on 2nd drive Has to be a driver glitch. Keep the faith   


Now it is July and I am finally back up and running 6.10 on my dell C840 and an Inspiron 8200 which I picked up cheap. 7.04 and I dont work well together as 7.04 doesn't recognize samung cd-roms cd-rw or dvd-rw's built for laptops. I have a Dell GX-1 SFF with a small Samsung CD ROM which also becomes useless under 7.04. 

Vista loads on both Laptops well, but I guess Microsoft has forgot that Laptop Modems are still used to send the all important fax. A point I have notice some in the forums seem to also miss when folks are trying to get their modems running under Linux. In this day of High Speed Internet. Vista, is well an expensive OS that can Frustrate and cause even a monk sworn to silence to cuss like a sailor. The features offered by Vista pale in comparison to Ubuntu and the "free" software environment. I am Very happy With 6.10 Modem, WI-FI and well everything works with a tad bit of reading and configuration. I hope to soon have my Linux skills developed to update to 7.04 But for now I am snug as a bug in a rug with 6.10. PS I work at a University so I have to deal with Microsoft software. if I didn't I would never have loaded vista I am force to as well I got to eat and make car payments and such. Peace out.

---

