---
title: "7.10 The new Intel Video Driver &quot;big errors&quot;"
date: 2007-12-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by frosch6669 on 2007-12-05
Hello,
i own two machines, one with the intel gme 855 chipset (+ graphics), the other with intel gme 965 chipset (+ graphics X3100 ). On both machines it is NOT possible to normaly start the livecd in order to install to disk. The problem is the following: the new inteldriver "guesses" some configuration and this is always wrong. Otherwise it seems not to be possible to stricktly advice the xserver to use a monitor with a fix resolution and frequency connected to defined connector(VGA,DVI). After installation worked when using the vesa driver on the fresh installed system the same error occures: crappy picture wrong frequency or monitor falls into standby.
On the GME 965 machine  i was able to connect a tft via dvi connector and it works. but my loved crt monitor doesn't. 
On the gme 855 machine, a laptop, i don't know how the display is connected.
7.04 worked well on the laptop. 

can someone help me?


thanks in advance

---

### Post by frosch6669 on 2007-12-05
is nobody out there with a similar but solved problem?

---

### Post by jbernardo on 2007-12-06
XRandr 1.2 broke a lot of configurations. It seems many options in xorg.conf (modeline, modes, HorizSync, VertRefresh etc, are now just "indicators", to be ignored if the driver chooses to ignore them.
You should be able to use the "PreferredMode" option in xorg.conf to set what mode to use with your CRT, but there seem to be a couple of open bugs related with it. Try googling for "PreferredMode".

---

