---
title: "Synaptics Touchpad"
date: 2005-12-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Speedyz2 on 2005-12-20
Hey guys,
  i was sitting here going through the setting under SystemSettings/Mouse and noticed that there are no real configuration settings for the touchpad. I went into Adept and noticed a few but they worked under the xFree86 driver not xorg. What i was wondering is if there was an interface type application to control this? if not i know i need to edit my xorg, but the problem is there is hardly anything in there...heres me xorg  

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 M9 (R250 Lf)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 M9 (R250 Lf)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

if you guys could let me know id be greatful. i have a Gateway 600ygr which has a scrolling device(and it works) the only real problem i have is that the pointer is moving extremely fast and i want to slow it down some. the Pointer Acceleration feature does nothing for me. Thanks for the responses.....

---

### Post by Lambert on 2005-12-20
See this thread.

[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Synaptics_Touchpad](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Synaptics_Touchpad)

---

### Post by HankB on 2005-12-20
Thanks for the pointer to the Gentoo Wiki. I was looking for info on setting palm detection for a synaptics touch pad and it seems to be there.

thanks,
hank

---

### Post by olo on 2005-12-21
I have already tried it out, and it didn't work.:confused:  It seems like xorg does not recognize the driver synaptics_drv.o at all.
Here is the log from: /var/log/Xorg.0.log:

(II) LoadModule: "synaptics"
(WW) Warning, couldn't open module synaptics
(II) UnloadModule: "synaptics"
(EE) Failed to load module "synaptics" (module does not exist, 0)

I had even compiled a new driver from the source, but still it was the same.
My laptop is HP Pavilion zv5000us and the ALPS touchpad works at other linux distro. I wonder, if anybody installed the driver. :rolleyes:

---

### Post by hw-tph on 2005-12-21
olo, I have basically the same laptop as you and after a few tweaks it works fine. First off, if the module isn't found you have done something really suspicious. Try to reinstall xorg-driver-synaptics.

To enable scrolling I had to replace the synaptics driver that came with Breezy. If you run 32bit Ubuntu 5.10 you can grab the driver I built [here](http://hakan.prinsig.se/files/index.php?path=ubuntu/). Instructions are included.

If you have a 64bit environment I cannot help since the only 64bit computer I have is a Sun Ultra 10 and that sure hasn't got any touchpad, but you should be able to build the driver nonetheless. You should use the 0.14.3 version as I haven't had 0.14.4 working correctly on my system (your mileage may vary). 0.14.3 requires a patch to build on Ubuntu but that is available at the URL I specified above (patch originally found on this forum).


H&#229;kan

---

### Post by mcwtlg on 2005-12-21
Thanx very much.  Worked very well on my Omnibook 4150.

---

### Post by olo on 2005-12-21
Thank you hw-tph. Actually, I use tesing Dapper. After the last upgrade + reinstall xserver-xorg-input-synaptics it simply works. :D

---

### Post by Speedyz2 on 2005-12-22
well i followed the intructions on that link and it crapped out my system. on bootup all i got was the commandline log in screen. :???: luckily i make backups when i edit items and just copied my old xorg.conf back into the directory. guess ill try some other things...thanks for the help tho guys.

---

### Post by ubuntolog on 2006-01-15
[QUOTE=hw-tph]olo, I have basically the same laptop as you and after a few tweaks it works fine. First off, if the module isn't found you have done something really suspicious. Try to reinstall xorg-driver-synaptics.

To enable scrolling I had to replace the synaptics driver that came with Breezy. If you run 32bit Ubuntu 5.10 you can grab the driver I built [here](http://hakan.prinsig.se/files/index.php?path=ubuntu/). Instructions are included.

If you have a 64bit environment I cannot help since the only 64bit computer I have is a Sun Ultra 10 and that sure hasn't got any touchpad, but you should be able to build the driver nonetheless. You should use the 0.14.3 version as I haven't had 0.14.4 working correctly on my system (your mileage may vary). 0.14.3 requires a patch to build on Ubuntu but that is available at the URL I specified above (patch originally found on this forum).


Håkan[/QUOTE]

It works with my Alps touchpad! Thanks a lot!

---

