---
title: "5.1 soundcard?"
date: 2007-06-23
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by pickarooney on 2007-06-23
To get the best out of my new 5.1 speakers and to allow me to use both the front, central  and rear speakers, a microphone and a TV-card on line-in I reckon I need a new sound card with 5 jacks, but most of the 5.1 cards I've seen on sale only have 4. 
Is this normal or am I missing something?

Secondly, will a PCI sound card automatically override an on-board card or will I have to disable the on-board card in the BIOS? There are mic and headphone jacks on the front of my PC which I use regularly. Are these likely to be linked intrinsically to the on-board card and if I replace that will these jacks no longer function?

Any other OS-level configuring I should be aware of?

---

### Post by _simon_ on 2007-06-23
Yes you will have to disable your current onboard sound in the bios.
Your mic and headphone jacks will be connected to your onboard sound, make sure your new card has internal connectors for these then just connect them.

If you pick up a Sound Blaster Audigy 2 ZS from ebay or the likes, they have: (but no internal connector for mic or headphones I don't think)

1. Line Out 3 jack (LIN_OUT3) Connects to Front Center, Subwoofer, Side Left (only on 7.1 systems) and Rear Center (only for 6.1 systems) inputs on powered analogue speakers or an external amplifier for audio output. 

2. Line Out 2 jack (LIN_OUT2) Connects to Rear Left, Rear Right, and Side Right (only on 7.1 systems) inputs on powered analog speakers or an external amplifier for audio output. 

3. Line Out 1 jack (LIN_OUT1) Connects to Front Left and Front Right inputs on powered analog speakers or an external amplifier for audio output. Also supports headphones. 

4. Microphone In jack (MIC_IN) Connects to an external microphone for voice input. 

5. Line In jack (LIN_IN) Connects to analog devices like music synthesizers and other line-level sources. 

6. Digital I/O jack (DIGITAL_IO) Connects to external digital devices or digital speaker systems (6-channel or compressed AC-3 SPDIF output). 

7. Telephone Answering Device connector (TAD) Provides a monaural connection from a standard voice modem, and transmits microphone signals to the modem. 

8. Aux In connector (AUX_IN) Connects to the analog output from a CD/DVD-ROM drive using an Analog CD audio cable (available separately).

---

