---
title: "Writing to NTFS volume under 7.04?"
date: 2007-04-19
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by iain_m on 2007-04-19
It's just as the thread title says. After much forum-reading, I had this working under 6.10, using NTFS-config (if I remember rightly). 

7.04 certainly mounts my NTFS volumes automatically, and they're readable, but when I try to write to the volumes, I get the message:

*You do not have permissions to write to this folder.*

So should Feisty be able to write to NTFS 'out of the box', or is there some tweaking/installing to be done first?

Thanks.

---

### Post by garybrlow on 2007-04-19
You still need ntfs-3g and ntfs3g-config installed to be able to write to an ntfs partition. They are not installed by default.


Cheers!!!


GaryBrlow :biggrin:

---

### Post by iain_m on 2007-04-19
Thanks for the fast reply! I'll try what you suggest.

**Update:**
Still no luck, I'm afraid. 

Both ntfs-3g and ntfs3g-config are installed. 

When the ntfs partition *is* mounted (having browsed to it in Nautilus), I can't write to it. 

When it's *not* mounted, and I go to ntfs config in the programs menu in order to mount it, I get the message:
[I]"Error : An error occured when trying to configure
 /media/Windows XP, please retry. Thanks."[/I]

---

### Post by jeffmetal on 2007-04-19
have you tried altering your fstab file to use ntfs-3g

you can edit it by
```
gksu gedit /etc/fstab
```

my fstab now looks like

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda2
UUID=59c31111-5b5f-4d5d-8e8b-3fbd8db882a7 /               ext2    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda1
UUID=DE48BD8F48BD6745 /media/hda1     ntfs-3g    defaults	 0       1
# /dev/hdb5
UUID=DC7C63127C62E6AC /media/hdb5     ntfs-3g    defaults	 0       1
# /dev/hdc5 
UUID=6E540E5D540E2903 /media/hdc5     ntfs-3g    defaults	0       1
# /dev/hda3
UUID=08d07ace-95ce-4bb6-991d-47bf424a70af none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

---

### Post by iain_m on 2007-04-20
Ok, I tried the kind of syntax you described (using UUID etc) but this didn't help.

By trial and error I found that copying some code from the "fstab.edgy" file into fstab was successful:
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdc1 :
UUID=20ecea04-5bd7-4b53-b116-1f58bc1f6c20 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdc5 :
UUID=aa873cd6-d326-43d4-859c-f518ac0cd0b4 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
**/dev/sda1 /media/Windows\040XP ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0**
```

Note that in the final line I changed hda1 to sda1, because this is how the volume is detected in Feisty under GParted.

I have to confess I don't really know *why* this worked, but I am glad it did :) Any explanations would be appreciated for future reference!

---

