---
title: "HP nx6125"
date: 2006-06-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by jitesh on 2006-06-05
Iv just read that the HP campaq nx6125 laptop is not supported on Ubuntu linux. Can anyone tell me if it is?

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-05
Well, I'm posting from one :)
You can find some info on how well it runs here: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125) - although some of that is outdated. In Ubuntu 6.06, much more hardware is working, even all the launch buttons on the top row of the keyboard (I'll add my stuff to the wiki soon).

Most of the functionality is working allright out-of-the-box. These things are not:
[LIST]
[*]there's a cpu timer-problem which I don't understand the details of, but it can be fixed by adding "noapic nolapic" to the kernel boot options. See also post #7 in this thread. Also see posts #13 and #14 about the alternative, no_timer_check: apparently this breaks some acpi functionality.
[*]suspend-to-ram. [removed nonsense here] I have this working, but only when I do not have my USB mouse attached. There may be a fix to that, unloading some modules on suspend perhaps, I may look into that at some point. Also note that the proprietary ATi video driver fglrx breaks suspend functionality.
[*]cpu fan sometimes doesn't come on / shut off properly. This can be fixed with an acpi-patch. See [http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=5534](http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=5534) - I'm not sure if this is now in the mainstream kernel already. I'm running the unpatched amd64 dapper kernel which is dated May 23 2006, and the fan works properly most of the time anyway.
[*]wifi driver needs some work to get going: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx) - I went the ndiswrapper route and can confirm it works, even with WPA.
[*]I just tried the card reader with an xD-card. I didn't manage to get it up, but must add I didn't try very hard yet.
[*]I'm having trouble with OpenGL stuff not displaying; see post #6 down here. No idea if this is a general problem with this model or just my bad luck - I do know that it worked just fine in Breezy (but ofcourse Dapper has a different, newer, X server which might have introduced the problem). See post #22 to get it working with the fglrx driver.
[/LIST]

Hope you'll enjoy Ubuntu soon!

multiple edits: I thought it would be nice to keep this list updated, so you'll see changes in it quite often... :)

---

### Post by r.bulboaca on 2006-06-05
How's your performance?

I installed Ubuntu on this model but i can't use it. The CPU usage constantly sits near 100% and the whole thing is sluggish. I posted a more detailed description on this forum, but until now there's no answer.

thanks,
Radu

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-05
Hi, that is a known problem - you can fix it by adding "noapic nolapic" to your boot options.

---

### Post by r.bulboaca on 2006-06-05
thank you, you were right. It runs smoothly now.

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-06
Just a question: I have a problem with displaying OpenGL stuff (for 3D displays), and I was wondering if this is something I'm doing wrong here, or a general problem with Dapper and our laptop model.

Could you (nx6125 users) run "glxinfo" in a terminal (this tests the functioning of the OpenGL interface), and see if you get the same result as I did? I posted about my problem here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=189427](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=189427) - basically, I just get "couldn't find RGB GLX visual" as an answer, and I don't know what to do with it.

Thanks!



edit: I have filed a bug report for this. You can find it at [https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/48758](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/48758)
Please add your comments to that if you have any! Thanks.

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-06
As requested by rrstiff, I'll add here how to put in the extra boot options. There are three moments where you do this:
[LIST]
[*]When you're starting the LiveCD. At the first welcome screen hit F6, then just append "noapic nolapic" at the end of the line that appears and press Enter. 
[*]When you're booting the installed system. At the Grub screen, select the line you want to boot, hit "e" (for edit), I think you even have to do that twice, then add the options again, then press Enter, then "b" for booting. The "e" and "b" are mentioned at the bottom of the screen, should you forget :)
[*]Now if this all works, you want to make the options permanent. Go into a terminal, type "sudo nano /boot/grub/menu.lst". Be careful editing this file... ofcourse. Find the line that starts with "# kopt" and add the options at the end there. Save and exit the file. Then run "sudo update-grub" in the terminal. That's it.
[/LIST]

Just to help a bit more, the line in menu.lst looks like this for me: 
```
# kopt=root=/dev/hda7 ro noapic nolapic
```
Where the partition where you will have root will probably be different, but it will otherwise be quite similar. Also, note it is the line starting with a single "#", the other lines above that have double "##" and are just example lines.

---

### Post by dmery on 2006-06-06
Hi,

I have one HP Pavilion zv6015us AMD64 +3500. I am looking information about to install SD card reader.
Someone knows where ??
I have working: mmc_core, sdhci. But I have problem to set 0x20 to 0x22.:confused:       
I tried to install with a Gentoo howto: installing SD card reader, but I could not set the step 0x20 to 0x22 in the Gentoo way with Ubuntu (works fine for Gentoo).
I will appreciate some help
Regards,
Daniel Mery
:D

---

### Post by alesdoc on 2006-06-07
Hi,

i've an HP Nx6125 too. I'm happy of my laptop. I installed dapper a week ago and i'm very happy from the performance.

Just a question. I read on this site ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125)) that the hibernate-fuction should work on our laptop with dapper.

Have you tried it?

Bye

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-07
> Just a question. I read on this site ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125)) that the hibernate-fuction should work on our laptop with dapper.

Have you tried it?

Yes, Hibernate works for me on amd64. The graphics and wifi resume correctly afterwards. I'm using the "ati" driver for X, and ndiswrapper for wifi.
Question for you: can you check post #6 up in this thread, and see what glxinfo returns for you? (I'm a terrible guy asking everybody this stuff ;))

---

### Post by alesdoc on 2006-06-08
Hi,

i post you at first the part of xorg.conf regarding the video card:

[HTML]Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection[/HTML]

now teh result of glxinfo

[HTML]alessandro@ubuntu:~$ glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0x23 24 tc  0 -1  0 r  y  . -1 -1  0  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x24 24 tc  0 -1  0 r  y  . -1 -1  0  0  0 16  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 None
0x25 24 tc  0 -1  0 r  y  . -1 -1  8  0  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 None
0x26 24 tc  0 -1  0 r  .  . -1 -1  8  0  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 None
0x27 24 dc  0 -1  0 r  y  . -1 -1  0  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x28 24 dc  0 -1  0 r  y  . -1 -1  0  0  0 16  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 None
0x29 24 dc  0 -1  0 r  y  . -1 -1  8  0  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 None
0x2a 24 dc  0 -1  0 r  .  . -1 -1  8  0  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 None
alessandro@ubuntu:~$
[/HTML]

i tried to use the fglrx driver as suggested in this web site  ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125)](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125)), but i had problem with the fonts and also with some program like mplayer (no way to get a video on full screen for instance). How have you configured your video-card?

Another questio for you...;) 

To have Hibernate working i put the following line on mene.list:

[HTML]title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-23-amd64-generic
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.15-23-amd64-generic root=/dev/hda2 ro quiet splash no_timer_check vga=0x318 resume=/dev/hda6
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.15-23-amd64-generic
savedefault
boot
[/HTML]

**resume=/dev/hda6** where /dev/hda6 is the swap partition, but my problem is that the laptop doesn't switch off when i try to hibernate it. It works for a few seconds, but i doesn't switch off.

Can you help me?

Thanks

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-08
[QUOTE=alesdoc]
now teh result of glxinfo
[...][/QUOTE]
bummer, same as here... that's not very promising.... :( Thanks for trying that!

> i tried to use the fglrx driver as suggested in this web site  ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125)](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125)), but i had problem with the fonts and also with some program like mplayer (no way to get a video on full screen for instance). How have you configured your video-card?

Yeah, I tried fglrx too, but it caused lockups. For example, whenever I would try to switch to a console it would freeze the system completely. Now I'm just using ati, like you.

> To have Hibernate working i put the following line on mene.list:

[HTML]title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-23-amd64-generic
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.15-23-amd64-generic root=/dev/hda2 ro quiet splash no_timer_check vga=0x318 resume=/dev/hda6
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.15-23-amd64-generic
savedefault
boot
[/HTML]

**resume=/dev/hda6** where /dev/hda6 is the swap partition, but my problem is that the laptop doesn't switch off when i try to hibernate it. It works for a few seconds, but i doesn't switch off.

Hmmmm that's interesting. My boot options look entirely different:
```
title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-23-amd64-generic
root            (hd0,6)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-23-amd64-generic root=/dev/hda7 ro noapic nolapic quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-23-amd64-generic
savedefault
boot
```

I didn't know about the "resume" option before - is that to resume from suspend? As said, suspend doesn't work here but hibernate does.

---

### Post by alesdoc on 2006-06-08
> Hmmmm that's interesting. My boot options look entirely different:

[HTML]title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-23-amd64-generic
root            (hd0,6)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-23-amd64-generic root=/dev/hda7 ro noapic nolapic quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-23-amd64-generic
savedefault
boot[/HTML]

I didn't know about the "resume" option before - is that to resume from suspend? As said, suspend doesn't work here but hibernate does.

I try to explain my options and where they come from.

**no_timer_check:** I don't know what *noapic nolapic* does, but i use this option because of the CPU usage. If don't use no_timer_check the pc works to slow (i think you have the same problem). I will try noapic nolapic.

**vga=0x318:** This option is just for the looking...;) It is for the framebuffer of the boot image and the othes console (alt+crtl+f1, alt+crtl+f2, etc.)

**resume=/dev/hda6:** When i tried to get work hibernate on Hoary i read on a wiki page that the resume option is needen to have hibernate working. I think when you hibernate your pc all the setting, running programs and so on are saved on the swap partition. Therefor you have to put resume=/dev/your_swap_partition on the kernel line.....so i thought.

I will try you kernel option.

---

### Post by alesdoc on 2006-06-08
I tried your kernel options + vga=0x318. Now i have hibernate working:), but now the CPU-fan works all the time . With no_timer_check i don't have hibernate but the fan works only when the temperature goes over 58°.

I have to choose on of the options:(

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-08
Yes, the noapic stuff was for the timer problems. But I remember now that without those, hibernate didn't work for me (this is in some old post on this forum).

About the fan: there's a BIOS setting that governs the fan behaviour; mine is set to always on when on AC. When I unplug the AC the fan goes silent.

Good news, I now have suspend working!
I found that it was not enabled in /etc/default/acpi-support so I just removed the "#"...

The crazy thing is, I could still suspend when the "#" was in the file, but I couldn't come back from suspend. Just changing that file and restarting acpi-support got it working smoothly!

---

### Post by bato on 2006-06-08
Hello everybody,

I have tested the fglrx driver and I have some problem too. 
I rewrited the /etc/modules for error and now Iit sets only fglrx module... now I resetted ati driver and commented fglrx in /etc/modules. I added lp, mousedev and psmouse but I'm not sure if it is right.
Can you post me your /etc/modules ??

Thanks a lot

Ps: alesdoc are you italian? I have seen your name in italian ubuntu forum too. Are you? In that case I'm italian too CIAO

---

### Post by bato on 2006-06-08
Another question:

Are you using network-manager and ndiswrapper. I'm trying to use this combination, but network-manager dosen't work well. My wireless works but newwork-manager seems dosen't comunicate with wireless card.

---

### Post by alesdoc on 2006-06-08
FOR Patsoe

> About the fan: there's a BIOS setting that governs the fan behaviour; mine is set to always on when on AC

I know that, but it works for me without to change the bios settings. I think because of the cron scheduling acpi -t

> Good news, I now have suspend working!
I found that it was not enabled in /etc/default/acpi-support so I just removed the "#"...

Really?...goog news. I tried suspend too, but it didn't work. i thinks because fo the no_time_check option like for the hibernate.

FOR bato

Ciao...yes i'm italian. I will post this evening my /etc/modules

> Are you using network-manager and ndiswrapper

No. I'm not using ndiswrapper. network-manager works well

---

### Post by bato on 2006-06-08
> No. I'm not using ndiswrapper. network-manager works well

oh, are yuo using bcmw43xx drivers? I tryied with that but it dosen't work.

---

### Post by alesdoc on 2006-06-08
Here is my /etc/modules

[HTML]alessandro@ubuntu:~$ cat /etc/modules
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

lp
psmouse
rtc
sbp2
sr_mod
alessandro@ubuntu:~$
[/HTML]

For thw wifi i didn't upgrade my system from breezy to dapper. I installed dapper and followed this instructions:

[HTML]Wireless works with bcm43xx driver and ndiswrapper. For bcm43xx you have to download the fwcutter 'apt-get install bcm43xx-fwcutter' and extract the firmware from the .sys file 'bcm43xx-fwcutter bcmwl5.sys' and copy the *.fw files to /lib/firmware/$(uname -r). For every version of kernel you have to do this.

For wireless firmware and drivers visit:  http://phace.abshost.net/NX6125/ Download the bcmwl5.sys and bcmwl5.inf and run: sudo bcm43xx-fwcutter bcmwl5.sys and sudo cp *.fw /lib/firmware/$(uname -r)[/HTML]

---

### Post by alesdoc on 2006-06-08
Here is my /etc/modules

[HTML]alessandro@ubuntu:~$ cat /etc/modules
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

lp
psmouse
rtc
sbp2
sr_mod
alessandro@ubuntu:~$
[/HTML]

For thw wifi i didn't upgrade my system from breezy to dapper. I installed dapper and followed this instructions:

[HTML]Wireless works with bcm43xx driver and ndiswrapper. For bcm43xx you have to download the fwcutter 'apt-get install bcm43xx-fwcutter' and extract the firmware from the .sys file 'bcm43xx-fwcutter bcmwl5.sys' and copy the *.fw files to /lib/firmware/$(uname -r). For every version of kernel you have to do this.

For wireless firmware and drivers visit:  http://phace.abshost.net/NX6125/ Download the bcmwl5.sys and bcmwl5.inf and run: sudo bcm43xx-fwcutter bcmwl5.sys and sudo cp *.fw /lib/firmware/$(uname -r)[/HTML]

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-08
Weird stuff... I was just going to edit the wiki page at wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX6125 when I read a comment about how the fglrx driver should be installed. One part I hadn't seen before anywhere: adding fglrx to /etc/modules. So, I just tried the described routine, and it works for me.

No more lockups and also a working glx-thing!! I'm very happy.

However, I don't know what has changed it, so I'll try "breaking" the setup again.... :twisted: 
*edit: well, that was easy. The crucial thing is apparently to load the fglrx module early on, through listing it in /etc/modules. Without that, no glx functionality. And ofcourse, as with all these things: fix something and something else gets broken.... the fglrx driver doesn't like suspend :( (that's a known problem though). At least I can have glx stuff when I need it now, and suspend works the rest of the week when I don't need glx :P *

Something else: the cpu fan has been working flawlessly here over the last two days, using the vanilla kernel (and no acpi probing command scripts of any sort either).

---

### Post by Patsoe on 2006-06-09
[QUOTE=alesdoc]FOR Patsoe
Really?...goog news. I tried suspend too, but it didn't work. i thinks because fo the no_time_check option like for the hibernate.
[/QUOTE]

I just found out something really funny... suspend just stopped working today, and I hadn't been fiddling with the config files (for once :)) - I was really surprised.

Then I realized that yesterday when it did work, I was away from home... not having my USB mouse plugged in. Now, I can reproduce the hanging on resume whenever I have the mouse plugged in when resuming. Taking it out just before sleep allows for clean suspend and resume.

The fglrx driver still breaks suspend functioning though.

---

### Post by alesdoc on 2006-06-09
> I just found out something really funny... suspend just stopped working today, and I hadn't been fiddling with the config files (for once ) - I was really surprised.

Then I realized that yesterday when it did work, I was away from home... not having my USB mouse plugged in. Now, I can reproduce the hanging on resume whenever I have the mouse plugged in when resuming. Taking it out just before sleep allows for clean suspend and resume.

Have you done a bug-report fot this problem?

---

### Post by Similar on 2006-06-12
Hmm,

Allright I know this is my first post, so please correct me if I do anything wrong :) 

I have installed 6.06 on a NX6125, but it seems to be very slow, reading this topic (the noapic nolapic stuff) didn't do a thing, so I'm stuck again

It takes ages for me to boot my laptop, and then it takes even longer to load gnome, and I won't even begin to describe how long it takes for any program to start..It irritates me but I won't give up this easily..I've been running 5.10 on my laptop without problems (well, the wifi gave me a bit of an issue, but ended up working anyway :)) but this is horrible..

It's an 1.8ghz with 512mb (-128 for the gpu, which I will be setting to 64 soon, since I don't use the laptop to play games anyway)..

Anybody has some other solution I could try?

---

### Post by aldin on 2006-06-16
HI!
just to say that i have bought nx6125 ML-34 recently, with noapic nolapic arguments it works great! if i havent found urs topics here... lol

btw i am slackware fan, but have used ubuntu since 4.10... and i using i386 copy of ubuntu 6.06

as i am on dial up i am trying to fix modem: got some results with script ./scanModem but not make it work yet, anyone?

now cooler works ok, before noapic nolapic it worked non-stop and cpu was terribly slow

@Similar
about noapic nolapic - this is how i did it:

during boot, pressed F6 just added these two words: noapic nolapic on the existing parameters/arguments, booted, installed, rebooted all ok

btw 
Patsoe, after doing this way - adding noapic nolapic but not deleting other existing args i didn need to add noapic nolapic, in /boo/grub/menu.lst they were there after reboot...

---

### Post by cko on 2006-06-23
[QUOTE=Similar]Hmm,

I have installed 6.06 on a NX6125, but it seems to be very slow, reading this topic (the noapic nolapic stuff) didn't do a thing, so I'm stuck again

[/QUOTE]

I had exactly the same problem, but for me the noapic nolapic arguments did work. 

I did not understand the suggestions on this page at first (since I never edited grub menu files and know nothing about kernel boot parameters), so I looked up another page ([http://forwardsteptech.com/blog/?p=40](http://forwardsteptech.com/blog/?p=40)) which suggested the same thing.

Finally managed to have it work using the examples listed on [http://www.vmware.com/support/kb/enduser/std_adp.php?p_faqid=1420](http://www.vmware.com/support/kb/enduser/std_adp.php?p_faqid=1420).

---

### Post by alesdoc on 2006-07-12
Has someone tried to get xgl working on this laptop model?

---

### Post by aldin on 2006-11-04
works 4 me (now it is xgl+beryl)

---

