---
title: "Lenovo 3000 N100. Intel GMA 950 or NVIDIA GeForce Go 7300?"
date: 2007-06-30
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by chrismyers on 2007-06-30
I have my eye on the Lenovo N100. It appears to be a nice bit of kit.

Which graphics card should I go for?

I'd like the maximum performance & I don't mind using restricted drivers on th nvidia if I have to. I wouldn't go for the nvidia if the intel is just as good.

I'd also appreciate the opinion of current owners of this laptop regarding general compatibility.

Many thanks. ;)

---

### Post by linuxican on 2007-06-30
Hi, 
I've ordered and getting a Lenovo N200 tommorrow. You know that the Nvidia card you mentioned is much powerful than the intell one. on the other hand, intel is much opensource-friendlier than others.
N200 has nvidia 7300 on it and I'll let you know about my experience.
luck,
Saeed

---

### Post by chrismyers on 2007-07-01
I'm so jealous. I want one!

Do let me know how you get on with it. I'd be interested if Feisty works 'Out of the box'.

Cheers. :D

---

### Post by linuxican on 2007-07-06
Hi,
I'm not happy to say that you don't be so excited about it!:(
I got mine and I couldn't even boot Feisty live disk on it. An error occurs related to the memory allocation. I didn't put much time on it but i will. 
my current status is that i totally hate the Vista on my laptop. It's disturbing! almost all the software are trial versions.
this is my first laptop and i'm not satisfied so far. The hardware configuration is great but i really don't know how to handle a dual boot on this system.
Saeed

---

### Post by chrismyers on 2007-07-06
I've heard that dual boot with vista is a different process to XP.

Because I wanted to try it for myself I bought Vista. I was so disappointed that I wiped it off.

We have a saying in the UK. All fur coat & no knickers. This really does apply to Vista ;)

---

### Post by linuxican on 2007-07-08
have you heard anyone installed ubuntu on this machine? i couldn't even boot ubuntu because of a memeory allocation problem.
my ohter problem is i'm too busy and can't put thath much time on it.

---

### Post by chrismyers on 2007-08-15
> **linuxican said:**
> have you heard anyone installed ubuntu on this machine? i couldn't even boot ubuntu because of a memeory allocation problem.
my ohter problem is i'm too busy and can't put thath much time on it.

Hi there again,

I was just wondering (as some time has passed) if you have had some time to work on Ubuntu with your laptop?

I'm still greatly interested.

Cheers.

---

