---
title: "Nvidia   Breezy   Can't Fix"
date: 2005-11-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Darth Tux on 2005-11-11
Hi, I'm having a bit of a problem with nvidia in Breezy. My video card is a GeForce FX 5700LE. When I try to do anything that involves OpenGL in any way, it freezes up, but in a nice colorful way i might add. When I preview a screensaver it just turns my monitor off and I'm left with nothing. I have tried drivers 7676, 7667, 7174, not to mention doing what every similar howto on here said to do, and trying the nvidia installation guide in the Help Breezy. :confused:  This really sucks because I had zero problems with it on Hoary and I was really siked about Breezy. This is the only problem so far, which isn't bad, but it happens to be a big one.

---

### Post by crane on 2005-11-11
Not real sure about your problem but if you would post any errors your getting and maybe the xorg.conf file it would help people help you!

---

### Post by Darth Tux on 2005-11-11
Here you go, this is what it looks like at the moment

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV36 [GeForce FX 5700 LE]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-72
	VertRefresh	50-135
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV36 [GeForce FX 5700 LE]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by vayu on 2005-11-11
I'm sorry I can't remember what fixed it, but at one time I couldn't run OpenGL with my nVidia 6600GT.

I'm no expert but until someone steps up I'll show you some of the differences in my xorg from yours.  Maybe there's something here that can help.

in the devices section I have these things that you don't:

        Option          "RenderAccel"           "True"
        Option          "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True" 
        Option          "ConnectedMonitor"      "DFP"
        Option          "IgnoreDisplayDevices"  "CRT,TV"

The first one I would definitely recommend you try because that's what tells xorg to use your video hardware features.

The second line could and actually might be the problem if and only if you were using compositing (like xcompmgr, but maybe some settings in KDE or XFCE might be needing that if by chance you're using those)

The third line I'm clueless as to what it does and I'd say don't try it unless you're daring and desperate.

The last line I'm not sure about for this system, but I know on my laptop I had problems until I had a similar line in there.

I noticed that at the top you didn't have a load "dri" or a load "glcore".  That's good.  I know those should NOT be there for an nVidia card.

It never made a difference on my system, but notice you are not loading dri, so I would recommend removing the last section where you have:
Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Darth Tux on 2005-11-12
I tried what you had, plus some derivatives of it but it was to no avail. I can't put my finger on what makes it do this. Its not hardware because it worked great on Hoary. :mad:

---

### Post by Darth Tux on 2005-11-15
[HTML]help[/HTML]  ```
help
```   [PHP]help[/PHP]  > help

---

### Post by daller on 2005-11-15
I assume you installed the nvidia-glx package :)

...Have you tried this command?

```
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
```

...And please don't repost in your own threads to get further attention!

---

### Post by Darth Tux on 2005-11-15
yes i already tried that

---

### Post by Teroedni on 2005-11-15
Do you use only ond video card?
What is the spec on your machine?
are you using tv tuner? or dvd board or mpeg2 encoder?

write this 
sudo gedit /var/log/Xorg.0.log

and paste it here

---

