---
title: "Nvidia Issues after driver install"
date: 2005-08-01
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by ph8 on 2005-08-01
Hey all, i first noted my 128MB Nvidia Gfx Card wasn't workin when the openGL screensavers were seriously lagging on full screen (even the basic ones) so i followed this guide:

[http://ubuntuguide.org/#installnvidiadriver](http://ubuntuguide.org/#installnvidiadriver)

to install my drivers - it all seems to have worked ok in that I now have a nvidia settings panel to play with but the openGL screensavers appear to have stopped working so as weird as it sounds i actually have no way to test if my gfx card is acknowledged/working.

All help appreciated!

Henri

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-08-01
glxgears

in the terminal

---

### Post by ph8 on 2005-08-01
Thanks for the quick response!

Output:

henri@serenity:~$ sudo glxgears
Password:
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
glxgears: Error: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-08-01
Please post your xorg.conf files

(/etc/X11/xorg.conf)

---

### Post by ph8 on 2005-08-01
[http://www.cooksworldwide.net/xorg.conf](http://www.cooksworldwide.net/xorg.conf)

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-08-01
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M300 (M22)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"

```

You said you have a GForce card. But it seems you have installed a ATI driver instead. Uninstall the ATI driver(reboot thereafter) and install nvidia-glx and also check if nvidia-kernel-commen is also installed.

thereafter in the terminal:
```

sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
```
reboot

---

### Post by tseliot on 2005-08-01
Excuse me for the intrusion, I have a problem with OpenGL screensavers as they make my computer freeze (I can't even move the mouse pointer). So I put Black screen as my only screensaver. However yesterday, after several hours of work I opened a movie and the computer hanged (it was 1.30 AM and it had been working since 11.00 AM).

When I installed my nvidia driver 7667 on my Ubuntu 64bit it failed (several times) while trying to install OpenGL 32 compatibility libraries, so I decided not to install them (I don't use my PC for games, I have an Xbox for that). I've also installed "Nvidia settings" following the Ubuntu Starter guide and it tells me my card has 128mb RAM (but it has 256MB).

If I run glxgears I see 2 gears and the results in the terminal (wil it ever stop???) then I close it.

here's my xorg:
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
#Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"it"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6200 TurboCache]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	31.5-80
	VertRefresh	56.3-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6200 TurboCache]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by strikeforce on 2005-08-01
Your using the internal glx files you need to use the nvidia ones and obviously you haven't been able to do that.  The reason being is the default for 7667 is the nvidia glx files.

Because your on 64bit make sure you've downloaded the 64 bit drivers.  Then after that make sure you go and search on here for a manual way to install the nvidia drivers.  It will automatically install the latest nvidia glx libraries.  

Make sure however you uninstall all previous traces of the nvidia drivers otherwise you will definately have issues as I did until I figured out what I had done.

---

### Post by tseliot on 2005-08-01
[QUOTE=strikeforce]Your using the internal glx files you need to use the nvidia ones and obviously you haven't been able to do that.  The reason being is the default for 7667 is the nvidia glx files.[/QUOTE]

What glx should be there then?

[QUOTE=strikeforce]Because your on 64bit make sure you've downloaded the 64 bit drivers.  Then after that make sure you go and search on here for a manual way to install the nvidia drivers.  It will automatically install the latest nvidia glx libraries.[/QUOTE]

Yes the drivers are 64bit. And I've read Nvidia README.

---

### Post by strikeforce on 2005-08-01
Well the readme for 7667 says that the default libglx files are going to be installed and thats where on your previous version has the issue.  You can't be in X to install the nvidia drivers so you need to do it from the command line.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=42763&highlight=compiling+nvidia+drivers](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=42763&highlight=compiling+nvidia+drivers)

Theres a bit of help for you the next link should show you the howto

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=39675&highlight=compiling+nvidia](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=39675&highlight=compiling+nvidia)

Further down there is a mini-howto on compiling.  The easiest way however is to follow the unofficial guide.

[http://www.ubuntuguide.org/#installnvidiadriver](http://www.ubuntuguide.org/#installnvidiadriver)

---

### Post by tseliot on 2005-08-01
Well, I made a HOWTO and that's the only way I can install Nvidia drivers on my computer (Those from the Starter's guide don't work for me even if I recompile them with my kernel)

Please, have a look, is there anything wrong in my HOWTO?

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=277659#post277659](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=277659#post277659)

---

### Post by ph8 on 2005-08-01
At the risk of sounding like i know nothing, i can't find any ati packages - how do i list all packages on my system (like rpm -qa on redhat?) - I can't find any in apt-cache search to even attempt removing - no idea how they got there in the first place... 
Thanks for help so far,

Henri

---

### Post by tseliot on 2005-08-01
My computer has just crashed. I've switched back to vesa driver, as "nv" driver works but it's buggy and it messes my screen up (it doesn't make all freeze though ;-) ). The problem is that movies have poor quality with vesa driver (I don't need 3d acceleration too much).

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-08-01
[QUOTE=ph8]At the risk of sounding like i know nothing, i can't find any ati packages - how do i list all packages on my system (like rpm -qa on redhat?) - I can't find any in apt-cache search to even attempt removing - no idea how they got there in the first place... 
Thanks for help so far,

Henri[/QUOTE]

sudo dpkg -r fglrx-control

or search for fglrx in the Synaptic Pacakage Manager

---

### Post by ph8 on 2005-08-01
It's not installed Artifical Intelligence - dpkg wouldn't remove what wasn't there - bit stumped :/

---

### Post by ph8 on 2005-08-02
Ignore this post - turns out I ACTUALLY DO have an ati mobility radeon :/

Henri

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-08-02
Hmm...

Make a back up of /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Open your Package Manager*(System --> Adminstration ---> Synaptic package Manager)* and search for 'fglrx-control'. Is the package installed? If so remove it completely.


Now find 'nvidia-kernel-commen' is it installed? If not install it and reboot. If it messing up restart in safty mode (esc right after the BIOS have done its work) and copy your back to /etc/X11/xorg.conf ( sudo cp /where/your/back/up/is/xorg.conf /etc/X11/

Search for nvidia-glx and install it and 'sudo nvidia-glx-config enable' reboot.
If something mess up use the backup of xorg.

If all above is okay but still no 3D acc. please let me know. Then we'll try something else.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-08-02
Oh okay!

---

