---
title: "Conexant modem problem"
date: 2005-12-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by .ifZ! on 2005-12-18
Hello! I downloaded drivers for my modem on linuxant.com and wanna install it. installer asked me "Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?" Usually it is in /usr/src/linux. Bot not in Ubuntu. What can i do? :(




Conexant HSF softmodem driver, version 7.18.00.07full

If you need license keys, assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hsfconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Ubuntu-5.10 linux-2.6.12-9-386 i686

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)
Please install the 'linux-headers-2.6.12-9-386' package. You can install
it with the 'apt-get install linux-headers-2.6.12-9-386' command.

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/usr/src/linux] /usr/local/src/

WARNING: missing file /usr/local/src//include/linux/autoconf.h
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).

First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.

The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).

Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.

Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "hsfconfig".

---

### Post by az on 2005-12-18
You need linux-headers-2.6.12-9-386 and build-essential.  You also need gcc-3.4 which is not on the cd.

Once you compile everything you will be told that there are software updatea vailable and you will need to download the new kernel which will not work with the driver you just compiled.  You will have to compile it again using 2.6.12-10-386.

Damn proprietary drivers!

---

### Post by papatoes on 2006-01-06
sorry but that is waaayyy over my head.Is there an easier way?

---

