---
title: "i815 screen artifacts [warty]"
date: 2004-11-12
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by ljoris on 2004-11-12
Hi,

First of all. Like many other I've been pleased with the ease of installation Ubuntu has to offer. In fact it's just that bit more 'manageable' then the debian/sarge installer.

Second. I'm a bit dissapointed the intel i815 (82815) chipset for my graphics card is not well supported. For now i have something like 'an old movie' effect. Lines running down my screen and bits of white dots and (eh) swirls when i move my mouse.

Is there somebody able to help me out on what's going wrong here. Maybe i need to clean up the configuration a bit. I've got the impression the XF86Config file is not very much tuned to a specific setup.

Best Regards,

Joris

---

### Post by Slovak on 2004-11-12
I don't have the problems you have, but do have the 815 chipset, and know for a fact that it is experimentally supported in linux kernels. I think it is just a hit or miss situation getting everything to work properly with it. I believe that is part of my problem with having no 3D with my ATI 9800XT.

---

### Post by daniels on 2004-11-12
[QUOTE=Slovak]I don't have the problems you have, but do have the 815 chipset, and know for a fact that it is experimentally supported in linux kernels. I think it is just a hit or miss situation getting everything to work properly with it. I believe that is part of my problem with having no 3D with my ATI 9800XT.[/QUOTE]He's describing problems with the i815 video chipset and graphical snow, and I'm looking at a patch to fix that now.

---

### Post by ljoris on 2004-11-12
[QUOTE=daniels]He's describing problems with the i815 video chipset and graphical snow, and I'm looking at a patch to fix that now.[/QUOTE]

Hi,

Thank you for your direct reply ;-)

So far i've noticed these artifacts to have correlation with disk-access and mouse movement. FWIW this card worked well with the Suse 9.1 Personal Edition supplied XFree.

Should you need some /proc info or other system related output please let me know, i'll be happy to supply.

Best Regards,

Joris

---

### Post by Slovak on 2004-11-12
[QUOTE=daniels]He's describing problems with the i815 video chipset and graphical snow, and I'm looking at a patch to fix that now.[/QUOTE]

Still I know the 815 chipset is in experimental stagesin the 2.6.x series kernel, so my guess is it is a hit or miss when it comes to everything working perfectly. For example, dri cannot be compiled into the kernel, which I believe it is with your kernel, because ATI themselves cannot guarantee working 3D when it is since theit driver has dri in it. That is precisely why I asked how to look at your current kernel config and reconfigure it without dri, since dri is checked off by default in the 2.6.x series kernels. I know for a fact dri is my problem. See my posts in the hardware section.

---

### Post by ljoris on 2004-11-17
[QUOTE=Slovak]Still I know the 815 chipset is in experimental stagesin the 2.6.x series kernel, so my guess is it is a hit or miss when it comes to everything working perfectly. For example, dri cannot be compiled into the kernel, which I believe it is with your kernel, because ATI themselves cannot guarantee working 3D when it is since theit driver has dri in it. That is precisely why I asked how to look at your current kernel config and reconfigure it without dri, since dri is checked off by default in the 2.6.x series kernels. I know for a fact dri is my problem. See my posts in the hardware section.[/QUOTE]

Well, i fixed it. Without any recompilation or anything ... What is most important is to set your colourdepth to 16 instead of 24. This is an issue wich is common on all XFree servers i've seen so far, could be related to Debian but i dunno for sure.

 Below you will find my working /etc/X11/XF86Config-4
--

# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "unix/:7100"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "dbe"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "dga"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "record"
	Load  "speedo"
	Load  "type1"
	#Load  "v4l"
	Load  "vbe"
	Load  "xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "keyboard"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xfree86"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "be"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS"
	Identifier   "FLATRON 775F"
	HorizSync    31.0 - 70.0
	VertRefresh  50.0 - 160.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Option	    "UseFBDev" "true"
	Identifier  "Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver      "i810"
	ChipSet     "i810"
	Card        "i810 i815"
	BusID       "PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	16384
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor    "FLATRON 775F"
	DefaultDepth     16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     4
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     8
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     15
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

---

### Post by vonkas on 2005-05-11
[QUOTE=daniels]He's describing problems with the i815 video chipset and graphical snow, and I'm looking at a patch to fix that now.[/QUOTE]

I just installed Kubuntu on my Compaq iPaq which has the Intel i815 chipset. Same problem as reported above - will be nice to get this sorted. It also appears that the video is rather slow - I guess this might be fixed with a proper driver too. Correct?

Otherwise I enjoy Kubuntu - this is the neatest Linux release I have played with. 2 notches up from Knoppix. I like the clean UI most!

---

### Post by ljoris on 2005-05-12
[QUOTE=vonkas]I just installed Kubuntu on my Compaq iPaq which has the Intel i815 chipset. Same problem as reported above - will be nice to get this sorted. It also appears that the video is rather slow - I guess this might be fixed with a proper driver too. Correct?

Otherwise I enjoy Kubuntu - this is the neatest Linux release I have played with. 2 notches up from Knoppix. I like the clean UI most![/QUOTE]

 \\:D/  like i stated above, just make sure the colordepth is set to 16-bit instead of 24-bit. For sure this must be driver-related but for now 16-bit is working while 24-bit is troublesome.

best regards,

Joris

(feel free to ask any related question of course)

---

### Post by vonkas on 2005-05-12
[QUOTE=ljoris]\\:D/  like i stated above, just make sure the colordepth is set to 16-bit instead of 24-bit. For sure this must be driver-related but for now 16-bit is working while 24-bit is troublesome.[/QUOTE]

did that - its working now! I even got the sound working on this truly odd iPaq PC. I then installed my CPU adapter with PIII 1.1 Ghz and that's working too - I'm impressed! It feels as fast as the same machine under Windows 2K - that's with KDE. Mind you - when I go back to my MacG5 I know why you pay money for a OS!

---

