---
title: "Incompatible Hardware?"
date: 2005-09-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Downtown on 2005-09-20
I am having trouble reformatting and reinstalling Ubuntu as described in [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=64707).

My setup is in the attached .txt (inside zip) file generated by Everest.  If anybody can help, I would really appreciate it.  I doubt I'll get it fixed, but it's worth a shot if I can migrate away from Windows to Linux.

---

### Post by coolclassic on 2005-09-20
What happens when you try to install and how far do you get. As far as I can see you shouldn't have any problems with your hardware.

---

### Post by Downtown on 2005-09-20
I can't install.  The farthest I go was when I was booting the disk, it started to load GRUB but then it got Error 17 and froze there.

---

### Post by coolclassic on 2005-09-21
Go here to answer your error 17 problem:
[http://howtos.linux.com/howtos/Large-Disk-HOWTO-5.shtml](http://howtos.linux.com/howtos/Large-Disk-HOWTO-5.shtml)

---

### Post by Downtown on 2005-09-21
[QUOTE=coolclassic]Go here to answer your error 17 problem:
[http://howtos.linux.com/howtos/Large-Disk-HOWTO-5.shtml](http://howtos.linux.com/howtos/Large-Disk-HOWTO-5.shtml)[/QUOTE]
 That doesn't answer anything.

EDIT:  However, [this](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SmartBootManagerHowto) does.

---

### Post by coolclassic on 2005-09-22
The information you have given is very little you state that grub gives an error this can only happen at the end of the installation now you state that your dvd does not reconise your cd and will not boot please give more info  which would be helpful.

If your dvd is not booting this could be caused by a faulty ubuntu cd i.e. the iso has not been copied properly or has the dvd been set in the bios to allow booting. Have you tried your cd in another computer?

---

### Post by Downtown on 2005-09-22
[QUOTE=coolclassic]The information you have given is very little you state that grub gives an error this can only happen at the end of the installation now you state that your dvd does not reconise your cd and will not boot please give more info  which would be helpful.

If your dvd is not booting this could be caused by a faulty ubuntu cd i.e. the iso has not been copied properly or has the dvd been set in the bios to allow booting. Have you tried your cd in another computer?[/QUOTE]
 It's not the CD.  I've used it on another computer to install Ubuntu.  I'm new to Linux, not computers, so I know how to set boot order.  I set the DVD drive to boot first by telling my BIOS to boot from CD-ROM first.  I didn't copy the install disk, it's directly from Ubuntu, so you'll have to ask them if they copied it right.

I think I can use the boot help utility, as soon as I get a floppy disk.  I haven't used my floppy drive in so long, I don't even have any disks anymore.

---

