---
title: "fglrx drivers...."
date: 2004-11-02
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by -synapse- on 2004-11-02
Has anybody actually got the ati drivers working properly in ubuntu? 

I went, I tried, I failed


-----------
David aka. synapse

---

### Post by fng on 2004-11-02
yep, whats your problem?

---

### Post by ToWAH on 2004-11-02
[QUOTE=-synapse-]Has anybody actually got the ati drivers working properly in ubuntu? 

I went, I tried, I failed


-----------
David aka. synapse[/QUOTE]

lol same here cheers

---

### Post by jdusablon on 2004-11-02
By "working," what do you mean? Can't start X? What is the video card model? etc.

---

### Post by -synapse- on 2004-11-02
It is a Radeon 9800PRO and what I mean by 'working' is fglrxinfo prints that it is using the ati 3d engine and not the mesa one......

---

### Post by jdong on 2004-11-02
More of a hardware setup issue. warping post....

---

### Post by Slovak on 2004-11-02
When I install the ATI drivers and fglrxconfig I can't restart x. I have a 9800XT. I have reinstalled Ubuntu a few times and each time I cannot restart X after configureing fglrx. Any ideas? I am affraid to try again.

---

### Post by FLeiXiuS on 2004-11-02
[QUOTE=Slovak]When I install the ATI drivers and fglrxconfig I can't restart x. I have a 9800XT. I have reinstalled Ubuntu a few times and each time I cannot restart X after configureing fglrx. Any ideas? I am affraid to try again.[/QUOTE]


By configuring do you mean the X86Config-4 file?

---

### Post by Slovak on 2004-11-02
Yep, then I can never restart x, just a black screen upon reboot.

---

### Post by mctavish on 2004-11-03
I had the same problem with my 9600xt with the blank screen after reboot.

Adding a line to my xf86config-4 fixed it for me, but from what I read every case is different...

This line:

        Option 		"UseInternalAGPGART"         "no"

goes into the section where the fglrx driver appears.

---

### Post by Vulc on 2004-11-03
[QUOTE=-synapse-]Has anybody actually got the ati drivers working properly in ubuntu? 

I went, I tried, I failed


-----------
David aka. synapse[/QUOTE]
 are you sure you did it correctly?

just to double check you did:
sudo apt-get install fglrx-driver
then changed "ati" to "fglrx" in XF86-Config-4
reboot

still doesn't work? are you using amd64 or a 32bit cpu?

---

### Post by -synapse- on 2004-11-03
Never mind, got it all working right now, including 3d acceleration.

thanks

synapse

---

### Post by Phill Proud on 2004-11-03
Hi, I have a Radeon 9700 on an nForce2 board (nvidia agp chipset), and i've just done a base install from the 4.10 warty CD. I've added universe and multiverse sources, and have made sure my system is up to date. I have a few questions about what I need to do to get 3D acceleration working:

1.) Is sudo apt-get install fglrx-drivers ALL I need to install?
2.) All I have to change in my current XF86Config-4 is ati -> fglrx and add "UseInternalAGPGART" "no" ?
3.) Is there anything I have to do to make sure the module loads right on boot etc?
4.) Do I do this from within X or what? How do I kill X/GDM so I can do it from the console?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Slovak on 2004-11-03
Supposedly that's all you need to do, it didn't work for me though. Booted to a black screen. Make sure you have a back-up of your XF86Config-4 to your home directore, so if you hose it you can boot to recovery kernel mode and restore it to /etc/X11 if needed.

---

### Post by Phill Proud on 2004-11-03
I've done it all, and X works, but it's still using LibMesa. I think what's happening is that ati's libgl files and that are being used for 3d?? I don't know what it means or how to fix it though :(

---

### Post by mctavish on 2004-11-03
With this adding of the 

Option "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"

line, let me make it clear that I worked this out by checking my x logs, a bit of googling, pilfering from the xf86config4 generated by fglrxconfig, and finally some trial and error. It is not going to work for everyone, it just might work for some people.

So be careful about adding it into any blanket how-to. People should not use this option in the first instance. Try the normal instructions in the wiki first and only use this for troubleshooting.

---

### Post by Phill Proud on 2004-11-04
I have tried it with and without that option, and it makes no difference. The problem seems to lie in X using Mesa GLcore rather than ATi's. And thats something I have no idea about how to fix. I know in gentoo they have something called opengl-update but i'm not sure how it functions.

---

### Post by claymore on 2004-11-05
For me, the big difference was the mouse device label.

Whenever I would run fglrxconfig, I would go through what used to work in Mandrake, then it wouldn't start up, even after I followed all of the correct information.  Check your initial config file to see where the mouse is located, and try again.  That's what did it for me, anyway.

---

### Post by wallijonn on 2004-11-05
You should use SPM to install fglrx-control and fglrx-driver. This is because it will also force you to install [COLOR=BLUE]libqt3c102-mt 3:3.2.3-ubuntu1[/COLOR]. The chances are that [COLOR=BLUE]xlibmesa-gl and xlibmesa-glu[/COLOR] are already installed; but if they are not SPM should check the dependencies and install them. I also install [COLOR=BLUE]fglrx-dev[/COLOR].

The path for mice is /dev/input/mice

You should NOT use the external AGPGART. (Are nVidia users forced to use the external AGP GART?)

Also **be aware that you should be using the default i386 kernel**. If you install an i686 kernel it may not work. (I learned this the HARD way - I spent quite a few hours chasing down DRI not being enabled). I believe this is because the i686 kernels are at 2.6.7-13 and not 2.6.8-1.

The easiest way to test, besides running glxgears, is to set your screensaver to ATunnel. If it does not run quick and smooth - chances are that your /var/log will show XFree86.0.log as being "DRI not enabled" (towards the end of the file). In that file you should see a lot of 'fglrx' entries. If you do not see them - fglrx is not installed (for whatever reason - most probably a wrong kernel). 

Before running fglrxconfig copy the /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 to your home directory.

If it crashes upon reboot, sudo cp XF86Config-4 /etc/X11
because when you log in to root you will automatically be at /home/<username>.
Then 
[COLOR=RED]shutdown -r now[/COLOR]
should reboot the PC. (You could probably init to level 2 and restart the window, but a reboot is probably safer).

BUT - since you are already at a root prompt, just issue a 
[COLOR=RED]fglrxconfig[/COLOR]
command to rerun and write a new XF86Config-4 file. Then reboot.

.

---

### Post by Slovak on 2004-11-05
Don't work for me, told ya that over at ABXZone

---

### Post by wallijonn on 2004-11-05
Did you see my other post?

Besides, others may be reading this thread and may get some info which they would otherwise have to go to abxzone.com to search for.

---

### Post by ispmike on 2004-11-05
> **wallijonn]You should use SPM to install fglrx-control and fglrx-driver. This is because it will also force you to install [COLOR=BLUE]libqt3c102-mt 3:3.2.3-ubuntu1[/COLOR]. The chances are that [COLOR=BLUE]xlibmesa-gl and xlibmesa-glu[/COLOR] are already installed said:**
> fglrx-dev[/COLOR].

The path for mice is /dev/input/mice

You should NOT use the external AGPGART. (Are nVidia users forced to use the external AGP GART?)

Also **be aware that you should be using the default i386 kernel**. If you install an i686 kernel it may not work. (I learned this the HARD way - I spent quite a few hours chasing down DRI not being enabled). I believe this is because the i686 kernels are at 2.6.7-13 and not 2.6.8-1.

The easiest way to test, besides running glxgears, is to set your screensaver to ATunnel. If it does not run quick and smooth - chances are that your /var/log will show XFree86.0.log as being "DRI not enabled" (towards the end of the file). In that file you should see a lot of 'fglrx' entries. If you do not see them - fglrx is not installed (for whatever reason - most probably a wrong kernel). 

Before running fglrxconfig copy the /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 to your home directory.

If it crashes upon reboot, sudo cp XF86Config-4 /etc/X11
because when you log in to root you will automatically be at /home/<username>.
Then 
[COLOR=RED]shutdown -r now[/COLOR]
should reboot the PC. (You could probably init to level 2 and restart the window, but a reboot is probably safer).

BUT - since you are already at a root prompt, just issue a 
[COLOR=RED]fglrxconfig[/COLOR]
command to rerun and write a new XF86Config-4 file. Then reboot.

.

These instructions worked for me, thanks. Also, when I ran fglrxconfig I said No to external AGPGART but when I checked my XF86Config-4 it was turned on anyways. I still had to edit that part manually. I also used the command "sudo init 1" before running it just to be safe.

---

### Post by tr4veler on 2004-11-06
Anyone got a precompiled kernel module for the 3.14 drivers?  My 8500dv has no accel on 3.12.

---

### Post by cybrid on 2004-11-06
in my notebook (Acer 2023WLMi) with ATI mobility 9700, fgrlx works, and they detect the graphic card, but i get no 3D aceleration :(

---

### Post by wallijonn on 2004-11-06
[QUOTE=tr4veler]Anyone got a precompiled kernel module for the 3.14 drivers?  My 8500dv has no accel on 3.12.[/QUOTE]

[http://www.kitenet.net/programs/alien/](http://www.kitenet.net/programs/alien/)

[http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-installer.html](http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-installer.html)

[http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-installer.html#bin](http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-installer.html#bin) :

[http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-driver_3.14.1-2_i386.deb](http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-driver_3.14.1-2_i386.deb)
[http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-kernel-src_3.14.1-2_i386.deb](http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-kernel-src_3.14.1-2_i386.deb)
[http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-sources_3.14.1-2_i386.deb](http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-sources_3.14.1-2_i386.deb)
[http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-driver-dev_3.14.1-2_i386.deb](http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-driver-dev_3.14.1-2_i386.deb)
[http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-control-qt3_3.14.1-2_i386.deb](http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-4.3.0-control-qt3_3.14.1-2_i386.deb)

Notice how he says: > After your X server starts, check if OpenGL acceleration is enabled. Open a shell and type fglrxinfo or glxinfo: the "OpenGL renderer string" should say something like "RADEON 9600 XT Generic"; if it says "Mesa GLX Indirect" instead, it means that there is a problem.

***** [http://www.vtk.org/Wiki/VTK_OpenGL](http://www.vtk.org/Wiki/VTK_OpenGL) *****

[http://www.gmpf.de/index.php/English_Version](http://www.gmpf.de/index.php/English_Version)

Tell us the exact method you used to get it working. So, take lots of notes. Write everything down.

---

### Post by wallijonn on 2004-11-06
There is an i686 kernel that can be used -

[COLOR=RED]linux-image-2.6.8.1-3-686[/COLOR] (from Restricted Repository).
[COLOR=RED]linux-restricted-modules-2.6.8.1-3-686[/COLOR] (Description: non-free)

it is restricted (non-free) because it supports ATI & nVidia (read the bottom pane). 

If you have a Reiser system it should come up with a boot-up error that says
[COLOR=BLUE]VFS: Can't find Ext3 filesystem on hda1[/COLOR] (or 2 or 3). So it would seem that it was really made to work on Ext3. 

Chances are that those of you who are having problems running fglrx probably have the wrong kernel installed. Or you did not installed the restricted modules. Install the one(s) I mentioned above and see if that doesn't take care of your problem.

Obviously, if you have an AMD you might have to use the 'K7' version, linux-restricted-modules-2.6.8.1-3-k7 (also supports madwifi)

with my 9800 Pro, glxgears shows a slight increase to 902 fps. ATunnel screensaver works smoothly with the i686 kernel.

.

---

### Post by emperor on 2004-11-14
The fglrx driver includes it's own glxgears utility "fgl_glxgears. Anyone run this yet? I get the following results on 2 machines:
 
 CECUBE Powered by ATI 9600 PRO
 =====================
 AMD XP1700 with 8X bus - 480 fps
 AMD XP1700 with 4X bus - 410 fps

---

### Post by HungSquirrel on 2004-11-14
Radeon 9800 on 4x bus, AthlonXP 1600+ overclocked to 1.54GHZ

420 fps

---

### Post by HiddenWolf on 2004-11-14
I had fglrx working no problem at all. Then switched to hoary, and due to crappy ATI drivers that don't support xorg I am now using the xorg ati module instead.

---

### Post by wallijonn on 2004-11-18
Emperor,

D875PBZLK, P3.0C, 1G Crucial
HighTech 9800 Pro 128/256
flg_glxgears: 202fps. 
glxgears: 902fps

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2004-11-24
[QUOTE=HiddenWolf]I had fglrx working no problem at all. Then switched to hoary, and due to crappy ATI drivers that don't support xorg I am now using the xorg ati module instead.[/QUOTE]

How do you use xorg ati module?... I can't make it work. What it's suppose to replace:

 Driver   "fglrx"

at xorg.conf (assuming default linux-686)?

thanks for any help!

---

### Post by emperor on 2004-11-27
[QUOTE=Rui Pais]How do you use xorg ati module?... I can't make it work. What it's suppose to replace:
 
  Driver   "fglrx"
 
 at xorg.conf (assuming default linux-686)?
 
 thanks for any help![/QUOTE] 
 Xorg 6.8 has ati support via the "ati" driver that is included with Xorg. However, this driver only supports 2D when used with the newer cards like the 9200 and above. 
 
 ATI's "fglrx" driver works with Xorg 6.7 but NOT Xorg 6.8. ATI is suppose to release a Xorg 6.8 compatible driver in December; which will then give ATI card owners 3D support again in Xorg 6.8.
 
 I am sticking with Warty and XFree86 4.3 so that I can use the current ATI "fglrx" driver and have 3D support with my ATI 9600 PRO.

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2004-11-29
Hi, thanks for the answer.

I have a lot of problems with radeon (9200SE and 9600SE).
I'm taking the ideia of trying a nvidia a little more serious every single day. 

thanks anyway!

---

