---
title: "Sata drive not recognized"
date: 2007-08-16
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Waves77 on 2007-08-16
I've search the forums and tried some of the solutions, but no luck so far.

Specs:
AMD Athlon 64 X2 6000+ Windsor 3.0GHz
ASUS V3-M2A690G AMD Socket
EVGA 256-P2-N554-AX GeForce 7600GT 256MB
Western Digital Caviar SE16 WD7500AAKS 750GB 7200 RPM SATA 3.0Gb/s

The Gparted Livecd detect the drive w/o a problem (partioned and formated it), but no luck with 7.04 (regular and alternate).

Changed bios setting to AHCI, doublechecked cables...

Any ideas? 

I've tried using the same kernel commands as the gparted boot, but that doesn't solve it either. Is there anything I could check from gparted (gentoo kernel), to help me with the ubuntu install?

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-08-16
What are your BIOS choices for the "mode" on that drive?  I've got the same drive model on my Intel mobo, and it is fine (but I added it after Feisty was installed, so I dunno if it would be seen by the installer).

I partitioned mine into 3 partitions of roughly equal size -- that may or may not be relevant.

---

### Post by dansen926 on 2007-08-16
I seem to be having a similar problem with my hp dv6500t CTO laptop. I believe my DVD drive is on the SATA bus, but I can't get it to mount at all. It worked just fine using the liveCD, but for some reason I can seem to mount it in 7.04 (standard install or alternate) :confused:

listings in my /dev/ folder are as follows:

sda1 = NTFS for my Windows Installation
sda2 = ext3 for Ubuntu
sda3 = ??? Probably my CD-ROM drive

sda5 = swap space

It's also weird to note that there is no sda4 listed, either. Any ideas?

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-08-16
Post your /etc/fstab file -- maybe it will reveal something about how that DVD drive is being identified.

---

### Post by Waves77 on 2007-08-16
[QUOTE=dabl;3199135]What are your BIOS choices for the "mode" on that drive?  [QUOTE]

Do you mean ide/ahci? It was set on ide, but changed it into ahci... or did you mean something else? 

Not at home right now, so will try this evening...

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-08-16
Yes, that's what I meant.  I think my BIOS offers "AHCI", "IDE", and "AUTO", and AFAIR I chose "AUTO".

Which reminds me, you should make sure you have the latest BIOS firmware for your motherboard chipset.

---

### Post by dansen926 on 2007-08-16
Ok, I will get that file posted ASAP. In the meantime, I booted back into my Vista for a sec to burn a CD, and I found this out about the DVD drive:

MATSHITA DVD-RAM UJ-851S

ATA Device

Location 0 (Chaneel 0, Target 0, Lun 0)

\Device\Ide\IdeDeviceP0T0L0-0

Hardware Ids:
IDE\CdRomMATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________1.50____
IDE\MATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________1.50____
IDE\CdRomMATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________
MATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________1.50____
GenCdRom

Parent:
PCIIDE\IDEChannel\4&3a525db8&0&0

I don't know if this will help, but to me it looks like it's not a SATA device, uses an IDE controller on the PCI bus, and it's the first thing on that bus...interesting.

---

### Post by dansen926 on 2007-08-16
Here's what I've got in fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automatically generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=5cdf8f33-d711-47cd-aac8-110cca74f72c / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=1f2ce904-d95f-478f-a0eb-d07bcd10a482 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/vista ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0

Well, I'm glad it can be seen at least. definitely looks like an IDE device, but again, idk what is keeping the device from mounting. There is no "hda" in the /dev/ folder, how strange is that?! :confused: So what do I mount?

my /dev/disk/by-path listing is as follows:
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part1
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part2
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part3
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part5

So fiesty sees all of my partitions, at least. Oh, I also found out that the sda3 entry was an ext3 partition that Ubuntu uses.

my /dev/disk/by-id listing is as follows:
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0            
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part1   
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part2
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part3
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part5

Again, this is only my hard drive, but I wonder if the pci bus location gives anything away. this is just a shot in the dark, but maybe the DVD-ROM is at pci-0000:00:00 ??

I'm still very much a n00b, as you can see :popcorn:

---

### Post by Waves77 on 2007-08-16
> **dabl said:**
> Yes, that's what I meant.  I think my BIOS offers "AHCI", "IDE", and "AUTO", and AFAIR I chose "AUTO".

Which reminds me, you should make sure you have the latest BIOS firmware for your motherboard chipset.

Bios update was the first thing I did.... no difference, Sata controller types are ide, raid and ahci, so I'm guessing that won't be it either :(

I'll keep looking... I left Sabayon and Knoppix downloading, I'll try what that does.

---

### Post by Waves77 on 2007-08-16
Burned Sabayon, hangs... Knoppix boots fine though, and I can see the drive and it's partitions just fine... at least I can run my new desktop :)

Still wanting to install ubuntu though... again, anything I can do from within this working distro to figure out what I need to do in ubuntu?

---

### Post by Waves77 on 2007-08-19
For those with a similar problem, I never got Ubuntu to work (I'll check again when 7.10 comes out). Zenwalk however recognized everything without a problem, and I'm running that instead of Knoppix.

---

