---
title: "VGA Problem"
date: 2007-12-12
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by ali780 on 2007-12-12
Hi
I have a leadtek winfast geforce 7300 VGA.
When I enable restricted manager and restart system, the graphic environment does not start and I have just command environment, something like DOS environment.
Also I have some vibration on ,y screen with 1024x768 resolotion and 85 for refresh rate.
My xorg.conf is:

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-12-12
Restricted driver manager isn't working for you -- you'll need to turn it off.

So, first, when you have that "DOS-like" screen, go ahead and log in using your normal user name and password.  Then, enter > sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg followed by your password, and this will start the configuration script. On the first screen, choose "NO" to the auto-detect question, and on the next screen choose "VESA" for the display type.  Then just accept the defaults until you get to the monitor resolution, and there you can indicate "1024 x 768" or something comfortable for a little while, and choose refresh ranges that your monitor or LCD can handle.  When you finish, it will dump you back to the text prompt, and you can enter > startx to get a GUI.

Now you can turn off Restricted Driver Manager.

Then, start your browser and follow this instruction to download and install the Envy driver installer.

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3086232.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3086232.0)

Let Envy install the correct Nvidia driver, and then don't enable Restricted Driver Manager and you should be OK.

:)

---

