---
title: "LCD TV...Any Ideas"
date: 2008-01-02
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by betamax on 2008-01-02
Hello (and a slightly belated "Happy New Year")

I've recently purchased an LG 19" LCD Tv, which can be used also as a PC monitor.

I'm having a few issues getting the correct resolution.
The manual suggests a resolution of 1440x900@60 but when I try to set this the display gives me a "no signal" message.

If I boot into Windows (sorry :( ) I can up the resolution to 1200x800 with no issues.

Has anyone here had similar issues (currently searching mr google and the forum for enlightenment)

Thanks,

Darren :confused:

---

### Post by gvoima on 2008-01-02
Are you sure about the resolution? And in what inputs it can be viewed?
Could you give the more exact model, thanks.

---

### Post by fiddledd on 2008-01-02
I've been using an LG LCD TV for last few months as PC Monitor with Ubuntu and XP. I can get the 1440x900 resolution without any problems on both Ubuntu and XP, although I prefer 1024x768 as I got bad eyesight.

---

### Post by fiddledd on 2008-01-02
Forgot to mentionI have the LG 19ls4r.

---

### Post by betamax on 2008-01-02
Hi,

Gvoima: The exact model is 19LS4D

Fiddledd: Could you post your xorg.conf I'd like to compare it with mine.

Thanks for the quick reply  :)

---

### Post by fiddledd on 2008-01-02
Heres my xorg.conf. 

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7300 GS]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"19LS4R"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7300 GS]"
	Monitor		"19LS4R"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by gvoima on 2008-01-02
Did you make sure that you used 60Hz with that resolution, as it is a VESA standard resolution and only works with 60Hz?

And it only works with DVI and PC connectors, but I guess you already knew that :P

I also had some problems with my LCD, but because I hadn't installed nvidia drivers it couldn't aquire EDID information from the TV, but after driver install it worked...guess you have managed the drivers too.

---

### Post by betamax on 2008-01-02
Thanks for the help so far...

Gvoima, I've had it set to 60Hz, when I get home I'll run a dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and got through carefully.

I wonder if a faulty monitor/vga cable would cause this? the one I'm using is a bit old and tatty.

---

### Post by betamax on 2008-01-03
Hi,

Just letting you know I got the LCD TV working.
The problem was the dodgy cable afterall, 
now running sweet in 1440x900@60 resolution.

Cheers for all the help.

Darren

---

### Post by fiddledd on 2008-01-03
> **betamax said:**
> Hi,

Just letting you know I got the LCD TV working.
The problem was the dodgy cable afterall, 
now running sweet in 1440x900@60 resolution.

Cheers for all the help.

Darren

Glad to hear it :)

---

