---
title: "Radeon driver - disable 3d acceleration? Dual head problems"
date: 2005-08-10
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by j4mie on 2005-08-10
I'm trying to set up the Mobility Radeon 9000 card in my laptop to use a dual-head setup.  I want to run the LCD on my laptop at 1600x1200 and the external LCD at 1024x768.

I am using the "MergedFB" option in the xorg Radeon driver to accomplish this.  If I set the MetaMode option to "1024x768-1024x768" (ie virtual resolution of 2048x768 ) then it works fine - at 1024x768 on both screens.  However, if I set this option to "1600x1200-1024x768" (combined resolution of 2624x1200) then the X server fails to start.

Reading the "man radeon" page, I noticed this line:

> The maximum framebuffer size that the 2D acceleration engine can handle is 8192x8192.  The maximum framebuffer size that  the  3D engine can handle is 2048x2048.
So, I set the NoAccel option to "true" - this turns off ALL hardware acceleration - then the desired screen resolutions ("1600x1200-1024x768") work perfectly.  BUT because there is no 2D acceleration, the system is very unresponsive, dragging windows is very jerky, etc.

So, my question is this: with the Xorg "radeon" driver, is it possible to turn off 3D acceleration but leave 2D acceleration enabled?  I can't seem to find an option to do this anywhere.

Alternatively: is there a better way to accomplish this dual monitor setup?  I have been trying for days and haven't managed to work it out yet.

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-08-10
Do you have DRI enabled?  If so--disable DRI & re-enable 2D acceleration---Also, it would help to post your xorg.conf----

---

### Post by j4mie on 2005-08-10
I tried commenting out the "Load "DRI"" line from the "Module" section and it didn't seem to have any effect at all - the problems were exactly the same.  Is that what you meant by disabling DRI?

My xorg.conf is here:

```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load 	"GLcore"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"dri"

	# Load "extmod" but omit DGA extension
  	# (the DGA extension is broken in the fglrx driver)
  	SubSection "extmod"
    		Option "omit xfree86-dga"
  	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 M9 (R250 Lf)"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	#Option "NoAccel" "true"
        Option "MonitorLayout" "LCD, CRT"
	Option "MergedFB" "true"
	Option "CRT2Position" "RightOf"
	Option "MetaModes" "1024x768-1024x768"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 M9 (R250 Lf)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
```

This is how it works with both monitors at 1024x768.  If I un-comment the "NoAccel" line and change the "Metamodes" line to "1600x1200-1024x768" then it works but very jerkily (with no 2D acceleration).  If I just change the "Metamodes" line then X crashes.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-08-10
Take a look at your .conf--the last 3/4 lines enable DRI---you could also look at /var/log/Xorg.0.log to see what is loading & when---

Also, in your .conf---

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"     <------ first dri load
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load 	"GLcore"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"dri"    <------ Second dri load

	# Load "extmod" but omit DGA extension
  	# (the DGA extension is broken in the fglrx driver)
  	SubSection "extmod"
    		Option "omit xfree86-dga"
  	EndSubSection

Load  "dri"  is enabled twice---

I think cleaning up the .conf could get you what you want---

---

### Post by j4mie on 2005-08-11
Thanks for your help - I hadn't noticed that DRI was loaded twice.  I commented out both lines, and also commented out the DRI section at the bottom of the Xorg.conf.  I then changed the metamodes section to "1600x1200-1024x768" and it *almost* works - the main screen is working at 1600x1200 and the second screen is at 1024x768 as desired - although it scrolls around within a larger desktop, which I assume is because the framebuffer is now 3200x1200 (is there anything I can do about this? or is it just a question of waiting for the next xorg release which apparently can have non-rectangular framebuffers?).

Anyway, the main problem now is that I'm getting artifacts all over both screens - bits of windows replicated in random places, oddly coloured boxes dotted in various places on the screens etc.  Any ideas what could be causing this?

Thanks again, this is a great help so far.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-08-11
As far as framebuffer--wait for Xorg 7.0--That's what I'm waiting for--Your size is 2624X1200, so I'd say you would have a scroll problem on the second screen (not bad, but its there).

You might try a meta mode of 1280x1024 1024x768 and see what it would do for you--I know that it's not the size you are looking for, but that might kill your redraw problem--(what is happining is when you say, drag a window--part of it "stays" at the old screen location--So, the screens are not updating fast enough)--it's possible that there is too much difference between the screens....

Anyway--hang in there--When we get Modular Xorg \\:D/ --things will work MUCH easier---So try the reduced meta size & see if it works for you---

---

### Post by s_p_a_r_k_y on 2005-08-11
hi i am attaching my xorg.conf file. I have an ati mobility 9700 card and have dual display setup. Hope that you can take a look from mine and get it to work.

---

### Post by bubblegum on 2005-08-11
[QUOTE=j4mie]Thanks for your help - I hadn't noticed that DRI was loaded twice.  I commented out both lines, and also commented out the DRI section at the bottom of the Xorg.conf.  I then changed the metamodes section to "1600x1200-1024x768" and it *almost* works - the main screen is working at 1600x1200 and the second screen is at 1024x768 as desired - although it scrolls around within a larger desktop, which I assume is because the framebuffer is now 3200x1200 (is there anything I can do about this? or is it just a question of waiting for the next xorg release which apparently can have non-rectangular framebuffers?).

Anyway, the main problem now is that I'm getting artifacts all over both screens - bits of windows replicated in random places, oddly coloured boxes dotted in various places on the screens etc.  Any ideas what could be causing this?

Thanks again, this is a great help so far.[/QUOTE]

I tried MergedFB and I don't think it does anything useful if both monitor does not have the same resoltion (ie you have the lowest resolution monitor into the virtual larger resoltion of the second). Personnly I can't stand viewport that scroll.

However you can use Xinerama to achieve the same result (with some inconvenience such as no DRI on second head)

I attached my xorg.conf (you can see i played with MergedFB but disabled it) , the Xine serverlayout is of interest

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-08-11
Well--Xinerama won't allow different resolutions on different monitors, while FBMerged will (look at man radeon)--I tried both & settled on FBMerged due to the faster fs--j4mie is trying to run two different rez so FB is the only game in town--

I think the artifact issue is a combo of acceleration (lack of) & the different Viewports--I'm not using the ATI special drivers (having a "issue" with ATI's high-handed manner), so am using the "stock" Xorg drivers--making the two closer would make Xorg's job easier--The specs of Xorg 7.0 look like FB will be a better option within the next few months, but we will see--

In any case--I've done what I can--I think a fresh look when Breezy is out is well worth the thought---

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-08-11
J4mie--Take another look at the xorg.conf--I was re-looking at man radeon & noted this-- 
Note: Page flipping does not work well in certain configurations
              with MergedFB.  If you see rendering  errors  or  other  strange
              behavior, disable page flipping.

If you used part or most if my .conf--I have page flipping enabled--so in your case, I would make sure that it is dis-abled--- ;-)

---

### Post by bubblegum on 2005-08-12
[QUOTE=autocrosser]Well--Xinerama won't allow different resolutions on different monitors, while FBMerged will (look at man radeon)--I tried both & settled on FBMerged due to the faster fs--j4mie is trying to run two different rez so FB is the only game in town--

--[/QUOTE]

huh, that's not my experience at all : I run happily xinerama 1440x900 on my laptop LCD panel and 1280x1024 on the connected CRT and it works great ! Using the radeon driver btw

Now this does not work with MergedFB which will always create a virtual "scrolling" desktop on one of the monitors.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-08-12
That's very interesting--the man file is not stating that you can do that (of course, there isn't a lot of good docs on Xinerama)--you might take a look at it & if it is not correct, drop a note with your experience to Xorg, or submit a "man Xinerama" to them :-? --I should think that the doc needs to be updated----I normally look at man docs first before changing things & correct docs are kind'a usefull ;-)

---

### Post by bubblegum on 2005-08-12
[QUOTE=autocrosser]That's very interesting--the man file is not stating that you can do that (of course, there isn't a lot of good docs on Xinerama)--you might take a look at it & if it is not correct, drop a note with your experience to Xorg, or submit a "man Xinerama" to them :-? --I should think that the doc needs to be updated----I normally look at man docs first before changing things & correct docs are kind'a usefull ;-)[/QUOTE]

You're right with this, Xinerama is badly documented (MergedFB is not much better : I found the documentation of the radeon driver pretty much incomprehensible). There are various tutorial/docs floating around but not a definitive , exhaustive and simple doc, : one that would list  common use cases for xinerama and describe how to do it and also describe less common cases.

For example a case that should be easy to do and that I still does not have found a solution is LCD on + CRT off (might be a bug of the driver which always send 1440x900 to my CRT even if I tell there is no CRT) and LCD off + CRT on (CRT is always garbled @ 1440x900).

---

