---
title: "display problems"
date: 2005-07-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by zacspeed on 2005-07-20
Just installed Hoary on an old compaq deskpro 4000 (233MHz I Tthink). Install went OK, but the screen display is terrible :(  When I move the mouse - it leaves a square about 1cm square in its wake. Also, the screen has tiny white dots all over the place (like the interference you'd get on a TV when your mate went past on his 50cc perfume burner when you were a kid!)
I did search this forum b4 posting, but the only ones I could I could find were relating to resolution (mine is set @ 1024 X 768 which is fine). The graphics card installed is the original S3 VIRGE/GX.

any suggestions please :)

---

### Post by souki on 2005-07-20
Hello,

could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?

---

### Post by zacspeed on 2005-07-20
[QUOTE=souki]Hello,

could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?[/QUOTE]

Sorry - I don't understand what you mean?

---

### Post by souki on 2005-07-20
see in "Additional options" section when you write a message, you will see a "Manage Attachments" button.
then, attach this file: /etc/X11/xorg.conf
then we will be able to try to help you

---

### Post by zacspeed on 2005-07-20
[QUOTE=souki]see in "Additional options" section when you write a message, you will see a "Manage Attachments" button.
then, attach this file: /etc/X11/xorg.conf
then we will be able to try to help you[/QUOTE]
I'm not using thu Ubuntu machine to post this, how do I find the file from the desktop?

---

### Post by souki on 2005-07-20
you have many possibilities:

1- switch to console mode and use a text-web-browser (links for example)
2- switch to console mode and transfer the file to the other machine (ftp, scp)
3- export your file system to the other machine (nfs, samba)

since I don't know your configuration, I can't say what is the best for you

---

### Post by zacspeed on 2005-07-20
[QUOTE=souki]you have many possibilities:

1- switch to console mode and use a text-web-browser (links for example)
2- switch to console mode and transfer the file to the other machine (ftp, scp)
3- export your file system to the other machine (nfs, samba)

since I don't know your configuration, I can't say what is the best for you[/QUOTE]

How do I switch to console mode? Sorry, but you're dealing with a complete noob here :)

---

### Post by souki on 2005-07-20
oups, sorry

you can switch to a console by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F1
then you can login with your userid and password
then:
cd /etc/X11
then use ftp to transfer the xorg.conf to a ftp server (do you know one you can put it?)
then, from your working desktop, get the transfered file with ftp again
then post the file in the forum

I admit it's not easy, but I don't see a better solution right now

I hope you will be patient enough to solve your problem :)

---

### Post by ananda.shanti.das on 2006-02-12
well i have the same problem on the same machine. 
i now do not get any grafix output. just a blank screen. but the symptoms before where as described above. 


who has experience ? please help !!! 

The graficchipset is:

S3 Trio64V2/GX - 86c785
with 2 MB of Ram.


xorg.conf should be attached

but i will post it here anyway

[FONT="Courier New"]# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"de"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"nodeadkeys"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"S3 Inc. 86c775/86c785 [Trio 64V2/DX or /GX]"
	Driver		"s3"
	BusID		"PCI:0:15:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Standardbildschirm"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"S3 Inc. 86c775/86c785 [Trio 64V2/DX or /GX]"
	Monitor		"Standardbildschirm"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection[/FONT]

---

### Post by ewoox on 2007-03-20
try using s3virge drivers instead of s3. Change "s3" in Device section

---

