---
title: "T60 Modem"
date: 2006-08-04
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by josys36 on 2006-08-04
Does anyone out there have a working modem on a T60. I can't seem to get the software to install to make the modem function.

Jason

---

### Post by josys36 on 2006-08-04
Here is what I get when I try to install the drivers from Linuxant,

Selecting previously deselected package hsfmodem.
(Reading database ... 137246 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking hsfmodem (from hsfmodem_7.47.00.01full_k2.6.15_26_686_ubuntu_i386.deb) ...
Setting up hsfmodem (7.47.00.01full_k2.6.15_26_686_ubuntu) ...
Conexant HSF softmodem driver, version 7.47.00.01full

If you need license keys, assistance or more information, please go to:
	[http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hsfconfig --dumpdiag".

Pre-built driver modules that seem compatible with your system were found under
/usr/lib/hsfmodem/modules/binaries/linux-2.6.15-26-686-SMP.
Warning: Module snd_hda_intel is in use
Warning: Module snd_hda_codec is in use by snd_hda_intel

Warning: no device detected by hsf driver - HDA modems may require reboot

Note: kernel module snd-via82xx-modem overridden by hsfmc97via
Note: kernel module snd-intel8x0m overridden by hsfmc97ich hsfmc97sis
Note: kernel module snd-atiixp-modem overridden by hsfmc97ati
dpkg: error processing hsfmodem (--install):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 123
Errors were encountered while processing:
 hsfmodem

Does anyone have any suggestions on how to get this driver working. I am going to be in real trouble if I don't get this modem working.

Thanks!

Jason

---

### Post by josys36 on 2006-08-07
Well just in case anyone is out there support said I should upgrade to at least the 2.6.16 kernel. I upgraded to the 2.6.17 and the same issue is happening as did before. The driver will not install. I have written support back again.

Jason

---

### Post by josys36 on 2006-08-09
Support came back today and said that there is a patch for the 2.6.17 kernel. I did try to apply this patch and re-install the modem driver, but now the kernel does not seem to think there are any modems on my system.

I think I did something wrong with my last kernel compile, so I am going to try again and see what happens.

Jason

---

### Post by josys36 on 2006-08-21
I give up on this until Edgy Eft comes out.

Jason

---

### Post by josys36 on 2006-11-03
Well this bugger is not working on Edgy either. I have written support again with another dump file. If anyone has gotten this modem to work please let me know.

Thanks!

Jason

---

### Post by josys36 on 2007-08-14
Anybody have any luck with this modem?

Jason

---

