---
title: "v2000z"
date: 2005-10-30
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by kozimodo on 2005-10-30
Hi all,

I've been thinking about buying the HP v2000z and I was wondering if anyone has installed Breezy on it and what their experience has been.

Thanks!

---

### Post by kozimodo on 2005-11-02
bump

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2005-11-02
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsCompaq?highlight=%28hardware%29](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsCompaq?highlight=%28hardware%29)

---

### Post by LeTon on 2005-11-02
sorry ,
It is rather quick question to SD-Plissken.

Dear Sir,
Maybe, by any chance you are not too far from NYC?
I'm hoping to find local linux/ubuntu people...to turn to in realy bad moments:)))
Also looking for posiibility to have few lessons ...appears that i perceive better when talking to a fellow-human being then consuming info off the books or computerscreen:)
Thank you.

---

### Post by shawnmcdonald on 2005-11-03
Installing Ubuntu on Presario v2000 (5.10). 

Overall I'm VERY impressed with Ubuntu on my Presario v2000. I have the following configuration:

# 1.8GHz Mobile AMD Sempron 3000+ processor
# 512MB DDR RAM
# 60GB hard drive
# 14.0&#8221; WXGA BrightView Widescreen Display (1280 x 768)
# ATI RADEON XPRESS 200M
# 802.11b/g Broadcom WLAN 
# 10/100Base-T ethernet and 56K modem

I blew away the XP Home that came with the system (it's junk), and repartitioned the 60GB drive with 40GB for Windows XP Professional, and 20GB left unpartitioned for the Ubuntu install.

The installation was remarkably pain-free but there were a few minor problems. Here are the problems I encountered along with the solutions (thanks to the many contributors from various posts and message boards).

Problem 1:
During the install, Ubuntu will make the Linux partition active. This creates problems with the GRUB boot manager: it cannot write the MBR to make the Windows XP partition active, therefore you cannot boot into windows following the install.
Note: this is only a problem if you are dual-booting with a Windows partition.

Solution:
During the partitioning phase of the Ubuntu installation, use the partitioner to make the Win_XP partition active. Alternatively, you can boot into Win_XP using a bootable GAG disk and then use Partition Magic to make the Win_XP partition active.

Problem 2:
After installation, X-windows freezes up while loading the GDM graphical interface. This is a problem with the acceleration settings for the video card.

Solution:
Edit the xorg.conf file and turn off acceleration.
Use pico or vi or emacs or whatever to edit the file  
/etc/X11/xorg.conf
Look for the "Device" section for the ATI card. It should look like this:

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Turn off acceleration by adding Option "noaccel" after the Driver line. The new Section should look like this:

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
	Option		"noaccel"
EndSection

Reboot or restart the GDM with:
 sudo killall gdm
 sudo gdm 

VOILA! You should now have a working Ubuntu system.
Remarkably, all of the ACPI seem to work as well as the volume/mute buttons AND all of the special FN keys.

Problem 3:
The Broadcom wireless card is not recognized.

Solution:
Install ndiswrapper and the windows driver that is found on the Drivers CD that comes with the laptop. Note: Use the Synaptic Package Manager to install ndiswrapper-utils (I tried installing the latest version from SourceForge but it failed).

(Thanks to Seb Payne/Matthew East/and Others for a great HowTo on this)
---------------------------------------------------
[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/SetupNdiswrapperHowto](http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/SetupNdiswrapperHowto)
 
1. Install the Windows driver with the following command. Remember, substitute your driver filename for mine. In the example given below, my driver filename is bcmw15.inf yours may be different depending on your wireless hardware, but it will always end with the .inf file extension. For some cards, it may be necessary to have both the .inf and the .sys files in the same location before using the following command.

ndiswrapper -i ~/windows_drivers/bcmwl5.inf

2. Now we create and alias for wlan0 into module configuration file so that this module is used whenever the wireless interface is started.

ndiswrapper -m

3. Lastly, before you configure your wireless connection, load your new module in the running kernel.

modprobe ndiswrapper

4. You should be able to check whether the driver was loaded successfully now and whether the hardware has been detected or not.

ndiswrapper -l
  Installed ndis drivers:
  bcmwl5 driver present, hardware present

5. You also need to add the ndiswrapper module to the startup modules so Ubuntu can setup the device when your machine starts. You need to add ndiswrapper to the end of the /etc/modules file. You can do this by:

sudo gedit /etc/modules

Add ndiswrapper to the end of this, save and close. When your machine reboots, it will find the Wireless Adaptor and start it up.


6. Configure the WiFi Interface. Again, the Ubuntu Wiki has an excellent HowTo on this
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WiFiHowto](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WiFiHowto)

7. This step is optional(but recommended). Use the Synaptic Package Manager to install gtkwifi. This is a great little application to help manage your wifi connections.

 
Well, that is where my current install stands. ALMOST everything works but I still have a few unresolved issues:

Issue 1: 
Starting any multimedia application that accesses video causes Gnome to restart immediately. I suspect this is related to the video card (remember the 'noaccel' option) but I have yet to troubleshoot this.

Issue 2:
There is a significant delay during startup while the system configures the networking services. You can bypass this during startup but I have found that if you do, the wifi connection intermittently drops later on. I suspect this has to do with the fact that you cannot leave eth0 deactivated (ndis and wlan0 seem to require this).  This is a relatively minor inconvenience that is sure to become a nagging pain in the *#! so I will probably sort this out in the near future.

Issue 3:
The system clock is messed up (runs at double-time or faster). Not a major problem (I have a watch) but I know there are fixes to this posted in other forums. I will fix this when I have time (no pun intended).


Again, overall I'm VERY impressed with Ubuntu on my Presario v2000 and would encourage either newbie or propeller-head to take the plunge. Hopefully you find my experiences helpful,
Shawn McDonald


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update Nov. 11, 2005

If anyone is interested, I resolved all of the issues with the v2000.

Issue 1: 
Starting any multimedia application that accesses video causes Gnome to restart immediately. I suspect this is related to the video card (remember the 'noaccel' option) but I have yet to troubleshoot this.

Solution:
Install and use the fglrx driver instead of the standard ATI driver. You may need to manually change the driver in xorg.conf after instalation but once this is done it seems to resolve all of the multimedia problems except one - DVD's on my v2000 were quite choppy. The solution here is to  turn on DMA support on the drive. Now, everything seems to work fine - Totem and Gxine tested. 

Issue 2:
There is a significant delay during startup while the system configures the networking services. You can bypass this during startup but I have found that if you do, the wifi connection intermittently drops later on. I suspect this has to do with the fact that you cannot leave eth0 deactivated (ndis and wlan0 seem to require this).  This is a relatively minor inconvenience that is sure to become a nagging pain in the *#! so I will probably sort this out in the near future.

Solution:
Not realy a solution since this problem seems to be a quirk of MY particular installation. I manually disabled eth0 (from the command prompt) and this seemed to save the settings. Done.

Issue 3:
The system clock is messed up (runs at double-time or faster). Not a major problem (I have a watch) but I know there are fixes to this posted in other forums. I will fix this when I have time (no pun intended).

Solution:
Use the 'noapictimer' option at boot time. This is easily done in your /boot/grub/menu.lst file. My ubuntu option now includes:
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.12-9-386 root=/dev/hda3 ro noapictimer quiet splash
Clock now runs properly. 
Note: if you don't implement this fix, you will get some pretty strange results while playing DVD's.

Issue 4:
The system hangs temporarily at boot time at the "Configuring network interfaces..." section.

Solution:
Edit the /etc/network/interfaces file to include your network information:

#Wireless Interface
auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-essid NETWORK_SSID
wireless-key s:NETWORK_KEY
wireless-mode managed
wireless-channel 11

(Replace NETWORK_SSID and NETWORK_KEY with the appropriate information)


I hope this helps,
Shawn McDonald

---

### Post by kozimodo on 2005-11-03
Thanks Shawn, that makes my decision a whole lot easier. I'll probably wait another month or so since it is rumored that notebook prices are going to fall after Thanksgiving. Once I buy though, I'll see how my own installation goes and perhaps add my 2 cents to your very helpful "howto".

---

### Post by goodchild on 2005-11-10
I have a question about the clock fix:

I've seen this elsewhere also, and since this is my laptop model also, I guess I'll ask the question here:  Is disabling ACPI really a good idea? On a laptop?

I was thinking that I would build a new kernel with a new DSDT after flashing the bios.  Maybe worth it instead of this?

Also, do you notice that your fan is intermittent?  Mine comes on at odd times, when I'm not using the computer at all.

---

### Post by kelleychambers on 2006-01-28
After 4 installations of Ubuntu on my V2000Z, I'd all but given up; until this post.  Shawn, I've printed out what you've documented and will one more time.  Man, I hope this is the gift I've been looking for! :O)

Thank you so much! :)

---

### Post by xenodata on 2006-02-20
I used these instructions and setup most of my ubuntu installation on v2000.  The only thing that was different was that instead of the ati graphics driver, I used the one auto-detected by ubuntu/gnome at setup which was "i810" and I left hardware acceleration ON.  The wireless card trick worked beautifully and afterwards I used another guide to shorten the bootup and shutdown time of the system.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89491](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89491)

After all that it is working very well, no complaints.  :)

---

### Post by slavik on 2006-02-21
xenodata, you have the v2000 not the v2000z

as for leton, I live in NYC (brooklyn) :)

for everyone having trouble with the V2000Z (the AMD CPU one) read my wiki here :P [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/CompaqPresarioV2000Z](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/CompaqPresarioV2000Z)

email me if you have any questions.

---

### Post by GordSellar on 2006-03-20
Uh, I need a little more help with the config of my V2000. I could do the earlier steps that Shawn outlined, but when I tried to config things according to the info in his updates, I think I screwed something up. When I edit the driver from ATI to FGLRX, Gnome doesn't have to relaunch, but Totem also refuses to launch. I must be doing something wrong, obviously. But I don't know exactly what to do, and am such a total newbie (first Linux install was my Ubuntu install last night) that I basically am COMPLETELY lost. 

So if someone has a few minutes, a step-by-step howto for those actions in the updated section of Shawn's guide would be VERY much appreciated. I know this is dumb and annoying, but I really want to make this thing work, and I can almost taste it. Thanks.

---

### Post by GordSellar on 2006-03-21
wait, nevermind. I think I have everything except the wireless issues sorted out by installing EasyUbuntu. So no worries, I think I'm relatively good to go.

---

### Post by HighTemplar on 2006-03-26
I followed every tutorial in the forum related to the ATI driver installation but none of them worked on my laptop. Several tutorials indicate that I should apt-get module-assistant but i can't find it.
Any idea of where can i find that package or what to do to enable 3D acceleration?

Greetings.

---

