---
title: "NTFS-config Problem"
date: 2007-06-25
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by refusejesus on 2007-06-25
Hi I am currently having trouble seeing my Windows NTFS partition after using the How-to on this forum for NTFS-config, i'm new to Ubuntu, having changed os's last week. 

Here is the how to: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009)

I followed it to the letter and am i a little confused as to why I can't mount my drive now, even manually. It says that the owner is the root, but i can't log-in as the root. Is this the problem? 

I have a maxtor 6Y080L0 80gb hard drive and Ubuntu Feisty.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-25
Post results of these commands entered one at a time in a terminal:

```

sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab

```

l is a lowercase L.

-merlin

---

### Post by refusejesus on 2007-06-25
Results of Sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/hda: 81.9 GB, 81964302336 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9964 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        8945    71850681    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda2            8946        9914     7783492+  83  Linux
/dev/hda3            9915        9964      401625    5  Extended
/dev/hda5            9915        9964      401593+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Results of  cat/etc/fstab

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=0e17babe-c2d3-4826-9602-005817b1103d / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=ebf1a993-88d2-4a19-a195-f60b63c8da73 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-25
OK -- looks like ubuntu is recognizing and loading your ntfs partition.

Try this in a terminal:

```

sudo ntfs-config

```

-merlin

---

### Post by refusejesus on 2007-06-25
It loads NTFS write support configuration tool 

i have Enable write support for internal device checked 

clicking ok just closes the window

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-25
So far, so good.

In Nautilus, navigate to File System/media.

There should be a folder named hda1, with folders and files.

If so, right-click the folder, left-click Properties, and go to the Permissions tab.

What does that give for Owner and Folder Access, Group and Folder Access, and Others Folder Access?

-merlin

---

### Post by refusejesus on 2007-06-25
For all the options the folder acess is greyed out.

folder acess under the greyout says - acess files

the other two say None

Owner and Group are given as root

It says i am not the owner, (which i though i was) so i cant change the permissions.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-25
Try this in a terminal:

```

sudo chown -R username:username /media/hda1

```

username is your login id.

-merlin

---

### Post by refusejesus on 2007-06-26
It appears i didn't need to do that last one, suddenly after my next reboot the parition appeared fine. Even though i had restarted after the origanal setup. Hopefully it wont go wrong again. Should i try the last command anyway, or shall i leave it?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-26
If it ain't broken, don't fix it!

Glad you got it working.  Sometimes it takes a couple of re-boots to sort things out.

-merlin

---

### Post by refusejesus on 2007-06-26
If only things stayed that way, since then, its now disappeared again. It properly not even the same problem this time. I was just ripping a cd with soundjuicer to a folder in the NTFS partition and the machine shut down and upon reboot the parition isn't loading again.

Thanks for all your previous help, and if you have any clues about this it would be much appreciated, i would never be able to find such help if i had a similar problem in windows.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-26
You may need to boot into windows and check the drive, which may happen automatically.  Ubuntu will usually not load a filesystem that has defects.

You can run 

chkdsk c: /f 

from a windows command prompt, or maybe even from the Run dialog in Start.  It will ask if you want to run on re-start, so do that.

-merlin

---

### Post by refusejesus on 2007-06-26
ok, excellent, its now working again. Thanks so much for the help, I think it should be ok now.

---

