---
title: "Numerous problems with Averatec AV6110-EH1 (Averatec 6100 series with Sempron 2800+)"
date: 2007-04-26
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Nazosan on 2007-04-26
I just recently acvquired a laptop that has had some damage preventing the battery from working and causing harddrives to fail that are placed in it.  To this end, I have been using a notebook harddrive inside an external USB 2.0 enclosure to do anything on the laptop.  Windows has completely failed to work for me so far (in several versions) but most forms of linux work right off.  I was hoping to use this opportunity to try out Ubuntu.

However, I'm running into numerous problems.  I know I should post each in a seperate thread, but ATM I'm just too tired of dealing with things to manage a bunch of seperate threads, so I will itemize (I hope this is ok.)

1.  I could not get 1280x800 (the screen's native resolution) to show up as an official selection in anything -- it seems it does not detect the monitor's capabilities at all.  I thought that I remembered finding an option somewhere that allowed me to manually set this via a proper GUI program, but I have since been unable to find it.  I solved this at least partially by manually setting it within xorg.conf, but a number of programs still don't show it (a fault of the programs, or because it was not detected as a valid resolution?)  In fact, as I recall, the GUI would not give me any PC widescreen (16:10) resolutions at all.  It would be nice if it were set in a more "official" capacity, but at least I have the correct resolution now.

2.  I'm getting random lockups.  These are, as nearly as I could determine, 100% random.  I have found no commonality between them.  At times it goes all day without happening, at others it seems to happen all the time.  At times it occurs while I'm doing a bunch of things, at other times while the system is idling at the desktop with nothing more than the default running...  Each time it locks up, the scroll lock and numlock LEDs are blinking, which I assume is something (I don't know whether software or hardware) trying to at least hint at what has gone wrong, but since it won't respond to anything at all (not even the power button -- even if I hold it > 4 seconds) I can't do any kind of diagnostics without knowing a lot more than I do about debugging such a problem.  Because of these lockups, the filesystem has been damaged beyond bootability on several occasions and I've been forced to reinstall a number of times.  It should be noted that, to my memory (which I admit is spotty after so many reinstalls) it did not occur in the 7.04 beta I was using before (I may try going back, but I worry about too much loss of support...)

I tried disabling various things such as PowerNow! (I don't really need it since battery power isn't an option and the temperature difference is negligable, but more importantly the message logs were being flooded with warnings about PowerNow! being out of sync on the voltage ID, so I feared it was too low or something) and still it locks up randomly.  I also disabled all forms of power saving that I could find, just to be sure (which I needed to do anyway -- if it ever goes into standby I'm screwed, because it seems to redo the USB, causing the system to freak out as the harddrive suddenly dissapears for a moment...)  I'm not sure, but it SEEMED like the lockups were noteably more frequent while I was listening to music in VLC (using ALSA btw.)  I have actually had to take up making almost nightly images of the partition to restore in case it breaks again, but I will admit that since I switched over to EXT3 I have had better luck with the damage being fixable (ironic since my experience with ReiserFS in the past had it being more reliable with lockups/powerloss on my server than EXT3 had been.)  I really can't afford to waste that much space though as I use the external harddrive I'm forced to backup to for a lot of other things (but really don't have the option of saving it anywhere else -- even burning to a disc requires that I first save to the drive if I want the image to actually come out readable after the burn.  So that means the space must remain always reserved to the backup until I can slow the lockups enough to not have to worry so much about it messing up.)

To this end, I found an old SB Audigy External and switched everything I could over to it starting with the ordinary sound control in the preferences (I even googled until I figured out how to make it the default ALSA device.)  It SEEMS like the lockups are more rare now, but since they are so random I can't be sure.  Then again, it keeps switching to the internal soundcard in some things, so I can't even be 100% sure that I'm even properly testing that theory.  I do know that it is constantly accessing the soundcard even while nothing is going on though, because I unpluged it for a moment and immediately received a complaint about the sound device not working or whatever -- and this is while I had nothing running and was not clicking or doing anything that would produce a sound effect.  Still, since I switched to it, I have noticed a FAR greater stability versus the past few days.  I can't be sure, but it's a rather large coincidence that random crashes decreased so much after switching to it.  Any guesses on the lockups or perhaps a way to completely set everything using every driver to use the external card so I can properly test that theory would be welcomed.  (On a sidenote, and not a critical thing at all, it would be very nice if I didn't have to keep toggling mute in the settings for the external soundcard to make it play sound -- it seems as if it automutes every time I remove or plug in something in the headphone slot.)

For the record, the soundcard is showing up under AC'97 as an SiS SI7012 device.  I note with interest that a Via 1612A keeps showing up in the sound hardware lists however.  I am uncertain what this device is since the SiS is definitely the built in sound processor (and I should point out before anyone wonders that this device shows up without the external soundcard plugged in.  Not that it should be a surprise since Creative insists on making their own "EMU" chips for their cards and it is highly unlikely anything could misdetect it as being a Via thing.)

I also have a RT2500 compatible wireless card being used for internet access.  It occured to me that wireless is still kind of hit and miss (it took me forever with a lot of tries to get it to connect to the LAN with this system in Ubuntu -- even sitting right next to the router) so it struck me that it might also be a suspect in this problem.  Unfortunately, I have no way of getting to the web without it at this time.  I don't know if it affects anything, but the wireless is a mini-PCI card by all reports, rather than something integrated directly.

3.  Video acceleration is horrible.  The desktop generally runs okish, but I wouldn't describe it as being super-smooth really.  But OpenGL things are so slow that it takes me forever to even manage to close them down.  I don't know if this is a failing of the SiS driver, or if it may mean something is up or if maybe the GPU was designed purely for DirectX and runs OpenGL badly as a result (though it's hard to imagine it running THIS badly...)  One thing of note, it seems like I remember finding somewhere an option to control which X server version was being used (perhaps this was in the beta?)  It showed me that at that time only the plain default server was being used.  At that time I was able to switch it over to Xorg-SiS or whatever it was.  I didn't think about it enough to take note of any speed increases, and at that time things were not installed enough for me to test OpenGL much (all I can tell you is that Beryl on the beta was giving me a white screen and I had to blindly disable it to get back to normal -- I think I switched to the SiS server hoping it would fix that problem.)  I don't know if that affects OpenGL or not, but if it did and the final version were defaulting to the standard X server, that might be a problem.  Any idea how to check and/or change this?  I know that I have not changed this setting on this particular install.

The GPU is showing up under "SG86C202" in the hardware info, and it lists the driver as being for "661/741/760 PCI/AGP or 662/761Gx."  I note that it shows the bus as PCI.  I have seen some integrated GPUs show up as AGP or PCI-Express, so I wonder if I am loosing some functionality by it lowering the GPU to PCI level.  I'm not sure though since for all I know that just is more of a compatibilty or driver thing saying PCI.  To my knowledge this laptop is not and was never meant to be upgradable however (after all, you don't worry too much about the GPU capabilities when putting in a Sempron,) so I don't really think that they would have gone to any lengths to reserve a graphics bus for future addons -- it just wasn't really in the target audience plan for this line of laptops.  The official specs do talk about hardware acceleration for things like MPEG2, so I'm thinking it can't be ALL bad at least (not that this takes a lot of power to do, but I think that means it can't be completely without basic acceleration features.)

EDIT:  Someone mentioned to me running glxinfo to get more details on the GL settings (all I knew of was glgears for testing and didn't feel like tracking down whatever package it is hidden in.)  When I ran that, the X server crashed as utterly as if I had hit CTRL+ALT+Backspace...  Probably not a good sign, right?

4.  Unable to get anything to recognize the built in memory card reader.  This laptop has one of those 4-in-1 memory card readers that are quickly becoming standard on laptops.  You know the drill, they say 4-in-1, but that basically means standard secure digital cards and that's about it because no one uses MMC anymore and the others supported in the same plug really aren't worth using if you can avoid it.  Still, it would be very useful if I could get it to recognize it and let me use it -- especially because of the fact that it seems to be the only way to get stuff on or off of my Pocket PC (I tried the various tools like SynCE, but none seem to even see the PDA.)  The curious thing is that it shows up in the hardware list just fine, it simply does not work.  I see "OZ711Mx 4-in-1 MemoryCardBus Accelerator" followed by two entries of "OZ711M1/MC1 4-in-1 Controller" but nothing shows up under these hardware device entries and plugging in a card has no effect (it's not that I rely purely on automount, but what do I mount for it?  I don't see an obvious entry like sdb1 or something.)

5.  That horrid mouse!!  Ok this is actually a hardware problem and no fault of Ubuntu's.  The stupid built in mouse on this laptop is so sensitive that sometimes it moves just from me having a hand NEARBY (but not actually touching it -- I guess all it takes is the tiniest of hairs to set it off.)  All too often I'm typing only to find that it thought I bumped the mouse (usually without actually touching it) and changes the focus elsewhere.  In the best cases, I just need to backspace a little and reposition the cursor.  In the worst cases, I didn't notice it shifted and it shifted out of the text box into the main browser window, causing my keypresses to do any number of annoying things ranging from simply going back/forward to resizing, switching layouts, or just whatever other annoyance you can think of.  What I REALLY need is a way to disable that option for it to count a quick touch and release as a mouse button press.  If it wouldn't count mouse bumps as button presses, then the worst damage it is likely to ever do to me is moving the cursor in my way (easily fixed.)  Failing that, I at least need a nice safe way of disabling the built in mouse -- but I need to be able to enable it when I need it as I can't always have an external mouse plugged in.  I saw a KDE tool for disabling/enabling on the fly, but it assumes that you have the other mouse plugged in all the time to really work and I need to allow for situations in which I will need to reenable the built in mouse with the keyboard alone if I have to disable it to solve this problem.

---

### Post by Nazosan on 2007-04-26
I'm terribly sorry to make a bump, and I hope no one minds, but it's already on page 6 (and I have mine set to show more topics per page) so there's little hope of ever seeing help on this if I don't bump.

I would like to add a bit of info though.  First it was my mistaken memory trying to run "glgears" for testing the 3D.  Upon a little skimming I realized it was "glxgears" which was included among one of the packages I have installed at some time or other.  As for the results, around 256 FPS, which as I recall is pretty incredibly low for glxgears is it not?  The odd thing is though, it LOOKS as if it is at about 3 FPS with major frameskipping or something.  There appears to be so much frame skipping that the gears ALMOST don't even seem to move, just kind of jerk a little, and I know that's not just from sheer speed since I have seen first hand what glxgears did on an overclocked Geforce 6800, and it looked like they were spinning fast, not slightly jerking every now and then (besides, even if they were moving THAT fast, I'd see tearing as the screen is unable to update that fast.)  I don't know what, but something is definitely wrong in the 3D acceleration somewhere...  I don't really think I want Beryl (at least I've never really gotten to even see it, so have no real desire to use it beyond curiosity) but as this laptop is all I have at times, I did want SOME gaming on it.  Mainly emulators and such.  With everything running so massively slow (ZSNES was so slow on OpenGL modes that I had serious troubles even getting the mouse to move just to change the video mode to non-OpenGL, and it ran a lot slower than it should have even without OpenGL and no video filters on) I'm finding that most of the emulators I would like to use (even NES is a little slow, and my 266MHz Pocket PC has no troubles with NES emulation) are just unusable.  Any help on the video acceleration problem would be most welcomed...

Also, after all this time, I think it's safe to say that the random crashing is definitely decreased (but not solved!) by this external soundcard.  I think something must be wrong with either the internal soundcard or with the driver.  Isn't there some way to completely disable it?  I'm not planning to try to play Unreal on this system or something (though I would really appreciate it if emulation would work, this processor should be more than enough for the systems I want to emulate) so the extra work for the processor in using an external card should be fine really.

---

### Post by Nazosan on 2007-05-21
Well, I'm sorry to bump this, but it has been weeks and I have found no real solution to any of these problems.  I still desperately miss OpenGL (even for such a slow GPU it should be enough for all I really want to do with it if it could do OpenGL at all) and these mysterious lockups still plague me.  The lockups are beyond a doubt the worst problem of them all because having to always keep this external soundcard plugged in and working is proving to be troublesome since it uses a lot of power and I wanted to also have a mouse and keyboard plugged in sometimes.  If I could stop the lockups altogether, I wouldn't have to deal with an external soundcard at all...

---

