---
title: "Problems mounting optical drive CD DVD"
date: 2007-12-17
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by defec8ing on 2007-12-17
I have some strange problems with my CD/DVDR drive.

Sometimes when I boot my laptop and insert a disk and it does nothing. When I click on the drive icon it says "Unable to mount volume"  "Check data is in the drive" or something like that. Other times it tells me that it recognises a blank disk in the drive when I know there is data on the disk.  None of the music/dvd software I have recognises that there is data on the drive either.

This is what fstab says:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=d8678800-9256-4345-9d00-d30b572a68d2 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=614ce779-8b96-4022-87d3-83345d038f55 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdc2 /media/iPod vfat nosuid,noauto,nodev,rw,umask=077,gid=1000,uid=1000,user,defaults,noatime,iocharset=utf8 0 0

And this is the output for~$ sudo lshw -C disk
  *-disk                  
       description: SCSI Disk
       product: TOSHIBA MK8032GS
       vendor: ATA
       physical id: 0.0.0
       bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/sda
       version: AS11
       serial: X5633184T
       size: 74GB
       capabilities: partitioned partitioned:dos
       configuration: ansiversion=5
  *-cdrom
       description: DVD writer
       product: DVD-RW  DVR-K16D
       vendor: PIONEER
       physical id: 0.1.0
       bus info: scsi@1:0.1.0
       logical name: /dev/cdrom
       logical name: /dev/dvd
       logical name: /dev/scd0
       logical name: /dev/sr0
       version: 1.00
       capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r
       configuration: ansiversion=5 status=open


Any Ideas.  I because sometimes the drive doesn't come up at all I thought that maybe there was a loose connection or something, so I even opened up the casing and checked, but all seems to be soundly connected.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by Toshick on 2007-12-18
did you try to mount "by hands"? 
mount -t iso9660 ...... etc

What is the result?

---

### Post by defec8ing on 2007-12-18
I'm not familiar with how to use this command.  Did you mean, type in:

sudo mount -t iso9660 user,noauto 0 0


If so, all I get is the instructions for the command mount, which I can't really understand....

---

### Post by defec8ing on 2007-12-18
If I do this :  sudo mount -t /dev/scd0
 nothing appears to happen and the drive still doesn't appear

---

### Post by defec8ing on 2007-12-23
bump

---

### Post by defec8ing on 2007-12-31
bump

---

