---
title: "xorg memory leak?"
date: 2007-05-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by D!mon on 2007-05-11
maybe it's a known issue but I couldn't find the plain answer on the forums and in the Google.
I have i965Q integrated graphics controller that uses i810 driver. Also I'm running beryl from the Feisty repos. Everything works smoothly but memory used by Xorg keeps to be increasing all the time.
At the moment my PC was turned on since yesterday; yesterday the memory amount used by Xorg was about 85-130 Mb, at the moment it's 233.1 Mb and becomes more and more.
I tried to exit all applications that were running since yesterday, reloaded Beryl and Emerald but the value of the memory used by Xorg became even more after that.

I'm going to leave my computer turned on for the holidays to look what will happen.

Is it driver/xorg/beryl/something-else issue and how can I find what caused this terrible memory leak?

At the home I have Nvidia 7600GS video card and even after a weeks of uptime xorg used ~30mb and that value didn't changed over the time (I don't know if Xorg's memory includes video card memory or not though)

Btw, it's 233.3Mb now after I've written this post:)

Don't know what to do since I don't want to turn my PC every evening.. My co-worker is running Vista Ultimate with Aero enabled on the same hardware and there are no such problems :(

Hope there is a solution..

---

### Post by fabertawe on 2007-05-14
Hi foks...

I would also be interested in knowing how Xorg uses memory. When I boot it's using 35 Mb and climbs steadily to well over 100 Mb after a few hours. I'm using an Nvidia 6800 if that has any relevance.

Cheers ... Paul

---

### Post by MarkDennehy on 2007-06-19
I'm getting the same problem here as the OP. 

1Gb RAM, three screens at 1200x1024 each, running xinemera on a dual-head ATI R9000 Radeon PCI card with 64Mb video ram and the onboard Intel i810 graphics. X.org (7.2, this is an up-to-date Fiesty install) starts out needing about 80Mb of RAM (well, three screens, I can believe that), but that rapidly climbs when I start Firefox (and pretty much only firefox). And within a few minutes of using firefox heavily, I have no more of my 1Gb RAM left. 

Gmemusage is saying that Xorg is using 300Mb right now, to run Firefox with two tabs (here and gmail - firefox itself is using 180Mb), xosview is saying that 388Mb of swap is allocated and 662Mb of RAM overall is in use. But if I go to (say) boards.ie (a vBulletin site), the CPU hits 100% with only one tab of firefox open, and if I open three or four, Firefox claims 600Mb or more, Xorg climbs into the high 300s for it's ram and everything grinds to a halt. 

I've been encountering reports of memory leaks in Xorg 7.2 - can anyone confirm if that's what I'm seeing here, or is my system just woefully underspec'd for what it's doing?

And if it is a memory leak, when is the patch coming out and can I downgrade (and to what version) to fix this?

Thanks all...

Xorg.conf:
```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"xinerama"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Radeon 9000 0" 
	BusID		"PCI:1:2:0"
	Driver		"radeon"
	Option		"DDCMode"
	Screen		0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Radeon 9000 1"
	BusID		"PCI:1:2:0"
	Driver		"radeon"
	Option		"DDCMode"
	Screen		1
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E196FP 0"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E196FP 1"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E196FP 2"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default ATI Screen 0"
	Device		"ATI Radeon 9000 0"
	Monitor		"DELL E196FP 0"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default ATI Screen 1"
	Device		"ATI Radeon 9000 1"
	Monitor		"DELL E196FP 1"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
#	VideoRam	65535
#	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Onboard Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"DELL E196FP 2"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"ATI Layout"
	Screen		0 "Default ATI Screen 0" 
	Screen		1 "Default ATI Screen 1" RightOf "Default ATI Screen 0"
	Screen		2 "Default Onboard Screen" RightOf "Default ATI Screen 1"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option		"Xinerama" "true"
EndSection

#Section "DRI"
	#Mode	0666
#EndSection

```

---

### Post by blakegrover on 2007-06-21
On my machine I am running feisty as well and I have noticed xorg using a lot of memory.  Sometimes it gets up to 200 or 300 MB which is ridiculous, why does xorg need so much memory?  From what I remember I had this issue with edgy and dapper but I thought it was normal, but after I upgraded to a gig of memory a couple of months ago I was surprised to see Ubuntu using swap space.  The only other programs I know I am running that use some memory are firefox and evolution.  I would be interested to see what is going on here.

Blake

---

### Post by sp_nz on 2007-06-22
> **blakegrover said:**
> On my machine I am running feisty as well and I have noticed xorg using a lot of memory.  Sometimes it gets up to 200 or 300 MB which is ridiculous, why does xorg need so much memory?  From what I remember I had this issue with edgy and dapper but I thought it was normal, but after I upgraded to a gig of memory a couple of months ago I was surprised to see Ubuntu using swap space.  The only other programs I know I am running that use some memory are firefox and evolution.  I would be interested to see what is going on here.

Blake

I'm in the same boat, my machine will start to slow down after running half a day, check memory usage and I'm @ 1GB with no apps running :(

Help, getting close to having to change my default boot back to Windows :(

---

### Post by pingpongboss on 2007-06-22
wow, alot of ppl on the same boat. xorg is eating my memory as well.

---

### Post by gardara on 2007-06-24
same problem here, when I have had my laptop running for a long time, then xorg starts eating up my memory and cpu....
Hopefully this will be fixed or someone finds a good solution.

---

### Post by WestCoastSuccess on 2007-06-26
Same problem here - running Feisty 7.04 with Beryl, and Xorg currently at 510.3 MB! Beryl climbs steadily after a few hours, so I click "Reload Window Manager" and "Reload Window Decorator" periodically, which drops it down to 79MB - is there any similar option (other than rebooting) for Xorg? Quite surprised to see swap space being used on a fairly regular basis with 2GB RAM installed...

---

### Post by WestCoastSuccess on 2007-06-26
Did a Ctrl+Alt+Backspace which dropped Xorg down to 31.1MB for the time being. Guess I'll add this to my daily reload Beryl routine...

---

### Post by ramjet_1953 on 2007-06-26
What I think all of you are seeing here is actually a feature of Linux.

Linux sees unused memory as wasted memory and as you run a session, that free memory will be used as cache, speeding-up drive access.

This is perfectly normal.

If you right-click on either your top or bottom panel and then choose [COLOR="Blue"]Add to Pane[/COLOR]l, a window will open.
If you then scroll down to the [COLOR="Blue"]System and Hardware[/COLOR] section and click on [COLOR="Blue"]System Monitor[/COLOR] and [COLOR="Blue"]Add[/COLOR], it will place an icon on your top or bottom bar.

Right-click on the icon and choose [COLOR="Blue"]Preferences[/COLOR]. Under [COLOR="Blue"]Monitored Resources[/COLOR], make sure that [COLOR="Blue"]Memory[/COLOR] is ticked. You will now have a memory monitor and passing your mouse pointer over the icon will give you info on memory use. It will display application memory and cache.

Of course, if an application requires more memory, it takes over cache memory.

Regards,
Roger :cool:

---

### Post by MarkDennehy on 2007-06-26
That's not what's happening ramjet - if X uses 750Gb of my RAM (which it's doing) and I start Mozilla, my machine starts to swap because it's out of memory. 
That's not being caused by aggressive caching.

---

### Post by ramjet_1953 on 2007-06-26
Hmm. That's interesting!

I certainly haven't experienced that with my installation.

Just the expected rise in memory used for cache. My swap usage is very low and quite often not used at all.

Sounds like we may have a glitch in the recent kernel upgrade.

I guess that I will be doing a bit of scouring the Internet and see if the problem is Ubuntu specific, or is common to all distros.

Regards,
Roger :cool:

---

### Post by pingpongboss on 2007-06-27
i've noticed that ever since i've switched to Fusion from Beryl, xorg hasn't be using *as much* memory

maybe it's a beryl thing

---

### Post by MarkDennehy on 2007-06-27
Not using beryl here, just stock x.org 7.2 and kwin.

---

### Post by ErnobmaS on 2007-06-27
I'm having similar problems too, running Feisty and Beryl. It doesn't seem to be as bad when I change my display color depth from 24 to 16 bit. Could that have anything to do with it? (I also get some nasty artifacts drawn around windows when in 24 bit mode, but that sounds like it might be a different problem.)

---

### Post by capdog on 2007-06-30
Try this guys:

[http://gentoo-wiki.com/FAQ_Linux_Memory_Management](http://gentoo-wiki.com/FAQ_Linux_Memory_Management)

It's a feature of Linux!

---

### Post by fabertawe on 2007-06-30
> **capdog said:**
> Try this guys:

[http://gentoo-wiki.com/FAQ_Linux_Memory_Management](http://gentoo-wiki.com/FAQ_Linux_Memory_Management)

It's a feature of Linux!

Are you suggesting Xorg holds the memory cache and this will shrink if that memory's required elsewhere?

Paul

---

### Post by MarkDennehy on 2007-06-30
> **capdog said:**
> Try this guys:
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/FAQ_Linux_Memory_Management](http://gentoo-wiki.com/FAQ_Linux_Memory_Management)
It's a feature of Linux!
Try this capdog, X.org releases cache memory to apps if it's needed, but that's not what I'm seeing here. And yes, thanks, I'm aware of what linux's memory management does.

---

### Post by walmartshopper67 on 2007-07-06
I.......don't think it's a feature, if I have the same problem as all the others in this thread - and i'm fairly sure I do, as i've been dealing with it since the public release of Feisty. This isn't just caching - it seems to gradually use more and more of the CPU over time.

If I look at it right now, here is the line from top for xorg (showing up at the top of the list)

PID      USER    PR     NI   VIRT    RES    SHR   S  %CPU   %MEM  TIME+    COMMAND

4693    root       15       0      120m   73m    9460  S    57.2        11.7     72:47.36     Xorg


Granted, 11.7 % doesn't seem like much - but that's more than 3 windows of FireFox are using (10.2%)

This is getting old fast, I mean come on: I didn't install Ubuntu so I could have to restart every 6 hours because it gets to the point where it takes 2 or 3 minutes to open the calculator. I'm not even running Beryl or Compiz - it's ridiculous. I do realize that Ubuntu is free, and that's why i'm not calling out anyone - I love Ubuntu and have been loyal for quite awhile - it's been great. 

I wonder if it's an Xorg thing or a Ubuntu thing - but if it IS really a FEATURE i'm going to Solaris;)

---

### Post by quokka on 2007-07-08
I've got no doubt that there is clearly something not right:
```

31658 root      15   0 1765m 1.5g 2136 S    0 74.9   8:06.83 Xorg

```
Nobody can convince me that this is intended operation - 1.7Gb !

Kubuntu 7.04 64 bit, Asus P5K, three Nvidia NVS 280 cards, 6 x 19" LCD screens, xinerama and twinview.

Just running a couple of terminal windows, Konqueror and Netbeans.

---

### Post by quokka on 2007-07-08
And after restarting X:
```

 4887 root      16   0  234m  66m 6656 S    0  3.3   0:13.50 Xorg

```

with the same applications running.

---

### Post by jigarzon on 2007-07-08
Same here... Xorg is using 600 MB of VIRT, 108 MB of RES and 10MB of SHR. When I open an application (even when I open the Gnome Main Menu) it swaps for a while, although I have no others applications open.
My specs: 
[LIST]
[*]1GB total memory
[*]Beryl 0.3.0
[*]Gnome 2.18.1
[*]Ubuntu Feisty 7.04
[*]X server V 7.2.0 (Release 22 jan 2007)
[*]Kernel 2.6.20-16
[/LIST]
,

---

### Post by quokka on 2007-07-10
From the Gentoo forums:

[http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-537634-postdays-0-postorder-asc-highlight-xorg+memory+leak-start-0.html](http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-537634-postdays-0-postorder-asc-highlight-xorg+memory+leak-start-0.html)

It seems that there are 2 bugs that are potentially responsible

[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=10009](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=10009)

[http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=171396](http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=171396)

When I have time, I'll have a go at patching and compiing X and installing it somewhere harmless.

---

### Post by the_maassk on 2007-07-10
Looks like they got a fix:

[http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-537634-postdays-0-postorder-asc-highlight-xorg+memory+leak-start-100.html](http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-537634-postdays-0-postorder-asc-highlight-xorg+memory+leak-start-100.html)

Can we get it too?

---

### Post by pingpongboss on 2007-07-10
a bunch of them said they got it fixed with that patch. any way we can get our hands on it?

---

### Post by the_maassk on 2007-07-11
Either its already fixed for people out here (except for me!), or no one has a clue to the fix yet.

Help....

Bump..!

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2007-07-11
I use Gnome in Fiesty and I don't think I have any problem? This is what top shows:
 5295 root      15   0  139m 123m  13m S    3  6.1 183:26.08 Xorg

and my system has been up for:
 08:48:33 up 4 days, 23:28,  4 users,  load average: 1.31, 1.07, 0.58

it's already been reported as a bug and FIXED per this: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/92882](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/92882)

---

### Post by quokka on 2007-07-11
> **dannyboy79 said:**
> I use Gnome in Fiesty and I don't think I have any problem? This is what top shows:
 5295 root      15   0  139m 123m  13m S    3  6.1 183:26.08 Xorg

and my system has been up for:
 08:48:33 up 4 days, 23:28,  4 users,  load average: 1.31, 1.07, 0.58

it's already been reported as a bug and FIXED per this: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/92882](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/92882)

That may be so, but X still leaks badly on my machine. I would be interested to hear if anybody has this problem and are not running Nvidia driver and/or Xinerama.

---

### Post by jigarzon on 2007-07-11
I'm having this problem and i have an Intel i810 display driver (with 915resolution installed that allows using wide-screen resolution)

---

### Post by the_maassk on 2007-07-21
up 42 min -- 
 4805 root       1   0  435m  66m  11m R  3.3  6.6   2:53.65 Xorg

This does not look right - does it? If not, the leak is still there.

Please, anybody?
(My config is in my sig.)

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2007-07-23
if you're using Compiz than it's possible that it takes a lot for that to run. My times above don't include compiz running.  Now if your xorg (435m) keeps rising and rising with no end in site and you're not running anything else as far as graphics intense stuff, than I would say that you have a problem then. But just having it up for 42 minutes doesn't mean you have a memory leak.

---

### Post by soulglo83 on 2007-08-02
I think the problem I'm having is related.  My computer eventually freezes from the memory and processor consumption, but the mouse still moves (I can't get any UI elements like menus or buttons to respond, and the keyboard dies so bad I cant even change caps/num lock).  I have to ssh to it and kill X manually, then everything is completely fine! (well until it happens again, and it is gradual [the memory consumption not the crash, that comes all at once])

My advice is to watch w/ 'top' or sudo 'ps' how much processor time and memory X is consuming, when it grows out of control, log out, kill X, then when you notice it happening again repeat.  This is better than hard shutting down your box w/ the power button or alt+prntscreen+b.   I have a much more extensive diagnosis and troubleshooting steps that led me to believe what I do, the thread is [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=515541").

---

### Post by MarkDennehy on 2007-08-02
> **soulglo83 said:**
> My advice is to watch w/ 'top' or sudo 'ps' how much processor time and memory X is consuming, when it grows out of control, log out, kill X, then when you notice it happening again repeat.
That's a bit too much of a non-solution for my tastes...

---

### Post by ecoxmit on 2007-08-02
having similar problem, kubuntu feisty, 
no compiz/fussion, just standard kwin running. 

solutions?

---

### Post by Cyclops_ on 2007-09-27
Bump!!!!


This is also driving ME nuts.  I convinced my bosses to let us have Linux (big step), and I am finding that I am having to restart X or reboot every 4 - 6 hours.  (Bad news).

This is happening whether or not I am running Beryl.  It seems that the problem according to top is Xorg.

I have a 6800 GeForce with 3 Gig Ram and a rocking CPU.


Has anybody any suggestions or patches or fixes yet?

---

### Post by dr_jaymahdi on 2007-09-30
```


Tasks:   1 total,   0 running,   1 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
Cpu(s):  0.5%us,  6.2%sy,  0.0%ni, 66.1%id, 15.6%wa,  2.7%hi,  9.0%si,  0.0%st
Mem:   2074952k total,  2023176k used,    51776k free,     2348k buffers
Swap:  6072528k total,    33852k used,  6038676k free,  1870752k cached

  PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND
 5077 root      15   0 40336  26m 7244 S    0  1.3   0:07.87 Xorg



```

does this mean I have the same problem too?

---

### Post by mvarga on 2007-10-07
Same problem here. The initial mem usage of 40 M goes up to 500 MB after a half day. Very annoying. :(

---

### Post by dr_jaymahdi on 2007-10-10
> **mvarga said:**
> Same problem here. The initial mem usage of 40 M goes up to 500 MB after a half day. Very annoying. :(

some reason, my memory consumption is fluctuating.  earlier today it was consuming about 1.3GB, and now it's down to 200MB.  I did update to the latest version of the kernel in which I did see an improvement.

---

### Post by jaygo on 2007-10-20
Same issue here. I'm pushing a gig memory with hogs like xorg, amarok (70), firefox, deluge, etc. Then I add a couple VMs (where I set the dedicated memory) and kontact (runs around 120) and I'm broke.

Is everyone here running 7.04 / KDE / kwin with multiple desktops?

My kwin is well-tweaked but I don't have any compositing apps installed. I'm guessing xorg might accumulate 'snapshots' of the off-screen desktop data and not dump it appropriately.

---

### Post by trumpeteersman on 2007-10-23
Same problem here. Taking lots of processing power and forcing my apps into swap.  Did not have this problem until I did a full update. Why isn't the patch in the repositories yet?  I shouldn't have to restart X.  That is windows speak.

Now I have three apps that have memory leaks: Firefox, Ktorrent, and now xorg after the update. :(

Running:
6.06LTS Dapper Drake
KDE 3.5.2
Stock gfx drivers, Nvidia drivers don't work.

---

### Post by acron1 on 2007-10-30
It appears as if I may have the same problem. As the system runs over time it looks like xorg is using more and more memory. It's not critically horrible as the increase is very gradual aver a long period of time it starts out at ~ 250mb and have seen it as high as ~320mb after a couple of days. Has anyone figured out a permanent solution to this. I am not even sure if this is a problem indeed. 
Thanks

---

### Post by mykmelez on 2007-11-08
Wow, this is nuts.  It looks like this problem (or set of problems) has been around for a while, given the number of posts in this thread and some of the other threads and posts complaining of a similar problem:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=551745](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=551745)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=520711](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=520711)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3663062&postcount=222](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3663062&postcount=222)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=601174](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=601174)

That latter one is Gutsy-specific, and I think my problem is also Gutsy-specific.  At least I didn't notice it until upgrading to Gutsy.  Now Xorg's RSS can climb from <10M to >300M in half an hour or so.

And I'm not running anything special (standard GNOME desktop, desktop effects disabled, Chatzilla, Pidgin, Thunderbird, Firefox, and gnome-terminal at the moment).

---

### Post by alanjackson on 2008-03-07
I think I'm also seeing this behavior. I have a completely up to date gutsy install, kubuntu, 32 bit, with an Nvidia card and the Nvidia driver. I just rebooted because Xorg had grabbed 1.6 Gb of memory. Now it's down to 89 Mb, but it seems to be slowly growing. There is a bug report, [https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14639](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14639) that may be relevant. Pretty clear to me it has a leak.

---

### Post by alanjackson on 2008-03-08
[IMG]http://ajackson.org/MemoryUsage.png[/IMG]

Here is the behavior. Most of this time was last night after I went to bed - so *nothing was happening* but Xorg kept grabbing memory.

---

### Post by jaygo on 2008-03-10
I was hoping that switching distros would make a difference but it didn't. I'm now running Mepis 7 and seeing the same behavior I saw in Kubuntu. Hopefully the bug report pans out eventually.

I did notice that loading a lot of apps, to the point that the system needed to use swap seemed to force X to flush some of its memory.

Also, I use multiple desktops, run dual monitors, and have cycling wallpaper on a few of the desktops. Anyone else?

---

### Post by alanjackson on 2008-03-10
I killed Amarok and Firefox and Xorg's memory usage fell back to normal.

---

### Post by alanjackson on 2008-03-12
Here is a little more info. Clearly both Firefox and Amarok are causing Xorg to soak up memory.[IMG]http://www.ajackson.org/Xorgmemory.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by jaygo on 2008-03-15
I usually keep Amarok open for days. I'll check into that. Also, is anyone else using  transparent windows (in KDE) ? Since I've disabled mine, Xorg seems to stay under 200M but I don't have any hard data.

---

### Post by alanjackson on 2008-03-15
> **jaygo said:**
> I usually keep Amarok open for days. I'll check into that. Also, is anyone else using  transparent windows (in KDE) ? Since I've disabled mine, Xorg seems to stay under 200M but I don't have any hard data.
Well I've never used transparent windows, and right now it's running at 260 M...

---

### Post by cegpope on 2008-04-18
another bug sufferer checking in.


7.10
Gnome
ATI


so it's not just the kde nvidia users affected.

Have to restart X every day or so to keep it from growing beyond 500mb of memory usage.

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2008-04-18
according to top, xorg is taking up this much

5299 root      15   0 68188  40m  10m S    3  2.0 444:26.59 Xorg

and when I do a free -m, I only have this left

free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2027       1967         59          0        164       1275
-/+ buffers/cache:        527       1499
Swap:         1498         14       1483

I have 2 gigs of RAM, granted I have conky running ( actually I notice in top that I have 2 conky's running, how does that happen?) can anyone tell me how to stop one of them? NO compiz running and only one torrent, I use bittornado, and in top it's btdownloadgui.pq.

any help would be appreciated. I do also run mythtv but the mysql database is in 1 hard drive and recordings on another. what could be consuming so much memory?

My other gutsy box is worse, I only have 256 mb of ram in that and when I run free -m on that, it says that I only have this amount left:

 free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:           249        245          3          0          6         45
-/+ buffers/cache:        193         55
Swap:          972        129        843

I also notice that i have like 5 getty's running, how do I stop all of them except for maybe 1? I know it used to be somewhere in feisty but it changed in gutsy. I am running gutsy  mythbuntu if that matters. 

thanks for any help.

---

### Post by h4p0 on 2008-05-01
Here some other data, may be useful


Running kde3.5 on a fresh installation of ubuntu HH without any effect running
No other relevant program running :confused:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

KDE version:  3.5.9
  User:  ******
  Hostname:  *******
  System:  Linux
  Release:  2.6.24-16-generic
  Machine:  i686

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

$ top
PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND

10159 root      20   0  357m  23m 5480 S    8  2.4   0:09.60 Xorg

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

$ ps aux | grep X
root     10159  5.4  2.3  29344 24460 tty7     Rs+  18:21   0:11 /usr/bin/X -br -nolisten tcp :0 vt7 -auth /var/run/xauth/A:0-ROZNta

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sometimes X easily uses 500MB or more of ram space (note: NOT SWAP!...that's simply RIDICOLOUS!)


$ Xorg -version

This is a pre-release version of the X server from The X.Org Foundation.
It is not supported in any way.
Bugs may be filed in the bugzilla at [http://bugs.freedesktop.org/](http://bugs.freedesktop.org/).
Select the "xorg" product for bugs you find in this release.
Before reporting bugs in pre-release versions please check the
latest version in the X.Org Foundation git repository.
See [http://wiki.x.org/wiki/GitPage](http://wiki.x.org/wiki/GitPage) for git access instructions.

X.Org X Server 1.4.0.90
Release Date: 5 September 2007
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
Build Operating System: Linux Ubuntu (xorg-server 2:1.4.1~git20080131-1ubuntu9)
Current Operating System: Linux h4p0-rulez 2.6.24-16-generic #1 SMP Thu Apr 10 13:23:42 UTC 2008 i686
Build Date: 15 April 2008  05:26:17PM

        Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
        to make sure that you have the latest version.
Module Loader present

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

the only thing that quiet me is that:
"This is a pre-release version of the X server from The X.Org Foundation.
It is not supported in any way."

but this problem is old like Matusalem...It's time to spend some time to FIX IT!!:mad:

---

### Post by h4p0 on 2008-05-01
In the time spent to write this message (so without do anything more than WRITE in a form on this page)
that's the situation:

10159 root      20   0  382m  48m 5480 S    8  4.9   0:30.20 Xorg

357m ---> 382m in 5 minutes!!


$uptime
18:37:45 up 25 min,  2 users,  load average: 0.15, 0.19, 0.31

---

### Post by alanjackson on 2008-05-02
This may be what is actually happening. It might be a bug in nspluginwrapper.

[http://www.adobeforums.com/webx/.3c05a62b](http://www.adobeforums.com/webx/.3c05a62b)

---

### Post by onewithnature83 on 2008-05-07
Toshiba A215-S7422
Turion64 X2 1.9 ghz
1Gb Ram
ATI Radeon X1200
Ubuntu 8.04 
Kernel 2.6.24

Hello, I also seem to be a victim of this Super Massive Black Hole of a memory leak! 

I wont go into detail as it apparently isn't going to do much good... This thread has been going for some time.  Just thought I would second everyone else's post.

I have 1GB of ram and it is 100% used within about 30 min from time of boot.. I was using the ATI proprietary driver recommended at install. And the Enhanced Desktop effects (compiz). 

I have since re-installed Ubuntu and did not even attempt compiz functions and the system runs smoothly with moderate memory usage. It seems they jumped the gun and didn'r work out the bugs before releasing it for general public use.

Its a shame as the features of Compiz was quite impressive. 

Good luck guys... Let me know if someone finds a workaround.

--TJ

---

### Post by Ski-lleR on 2008-06-12
Hi there

One question : have you a personnal kernel build ?
Because i made my own custom kernel for deactivate all hardware i don't have, and i activated all option for maximum hardware use

With my old kernel, the medium use of memory, with lxde (one of the most lightweight environment) + pidgin + clawsmail + deluge + mozilla with several tab, the memory use isn't no more than 150 Mb

Now my average use is 300 Mb for X with only firefox with one tab (about 350/400 Mb with all app), but hey, it's so speed! And when i play a game, the unused memory is released for other app!

You have memory, use it ! Unused memory is loss memory!

---

### Post by Relysis on 2008-06-13
I just made a new thread on this same issue (hadn't found this one yet).  I'm running 8.04 without any desktop effects, nor ndiswrapper or Beryl.  Regardless of what applications I run, Xorg maxes out my cpu.  It isn't cacheing; after about an hour of running anything the computer shuts itself down due to overheating.  I would post my top output as well, but it would just repeat what has already been said.  It's not an application problem, or a hardware problem, it's definately a problem with Xorg.  It saddens me that I leave this wonderful distro for XP because of a single command.  No complaints, as I can't fix it myself.  We had a good run though, Heron.

---

### Post by alanjackson on 2008-06-13
> **Ski-lleR said:**
> Hi there

One question : have you a personnal kernel build ?
Because i made my own custom kernel for deactivate all hardware i don't have, and i activated all option for maximum hardware use

With my old kernel, the medium use of memory, with lxde (one of the most lightweight environment) + pidgin + clawsmail + deluge + mozilla with several tab, the memory use isn't no more than 150 Mb

Now my average use is 300 Mb for X with only firefox with one tab (about 350/400 Mb with all app), but hey, it's so speed! And when i play a game, the unused memory is released for other app!

You have memory, use it ! Unused memory is loss memory!

No personal kernel. All perfectly standard. And saying that I should, in essence buy more memory is the answer I would expect from Micro$oft.

---

### Post by Tsu Dho Nimh on 2008-07-24
Another leak victim ... AMD 64, 64-bit Ubuntu 7.04 2MB RAM NVidia card with Nvidia drivers.

xOrg starts (after a reboot) with a few % of memory and ends up with 50-80% of the memory if I look at top. Then screen redraw and window changing freezes to an absurd extent and the hard drive gets hammered for reasons I don't understand. Mouse might move, keyboard input is delayed ... total paralysis 


Mostly happens if I've been using Google books (lots of high res images), which I do often. 

The best solution seems to be the reset button. Is there any fix yet, or do I have to keep resetting?

---

