---
title: "Apple Cinema 23&quot; HD only works with NV driver"
date: 2005-05-30
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by wellmt on 2005-05-30
Hello

I've got a problem getting my new Apple Cinema 23" HD (Alu) Display working in 1920x1200 res.  The display will only work in the full 1920 x 1200 resolution when using the generic NV driver. 

If I try and use the NVidia driver the monitor blanks out and the warning light comes on.

I know the NVidia drivers do work OK and I can bodge the xorg file to make them work at 1650x1050 by commenting out a lot of the file and letting Ubuntu autodetect a resolution, but it seems that 1650x1050 is the max that the NVidia drivers will display.

I've tried adding all sorts of modelines but I always get a blank monitor with warning light, For example:
#Modeline	"1920x1200" 153.970 1920 1968 2000 2080 1200 1203 1209 1235 +hsync -vsync

I also tried to install the official drivers from the NVidia website instead of Ubuntu's package but the installer seems to fail after compiling for some reason.

Anyone had any sucess with this display and Nvidia drivers?

---

### Post by wellmt on 2005-06-08
I got it working. Just in case anyone is interested...

To recap: I could only get the full 1920x1200 resolution when using the NV drivers. If I tried the NVidia drivers the monitor wouldn't work or I only get 1650x1050 resolution maximum. No amount of modelines or options in xorg.conf would sort it. 

I upgraded the graphics card from a (Leadtek) NVidia 5600FX to a (Gigabyte) Nvidia 6600 and the display now works perfectly using the Nvidia drivers at full 1920x1200 resolution WITHOUT any modelines or obscure options (xorg file attached below). As an aside, lots of other resolutions also work fine including text mode.

Maybe the Nvidia drivers have a bug or maybe they're designed not to provide above 1680x1050 on older/lower end cards?

For the record here is my working 1920x1200 nvidia enabled xorg.conf for the Apple Cinema 23" HD display:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
# cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
# sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
FontPath "unix/:7100" # local font server
# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
# paths to defoma fonts
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "bitmap"
Load "dbe"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "record"
Load "type1"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "keyboard"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "NVIDIA GeForce 6600"
Driver "nvidia"
#Driver "nv"
#BusID "PCI:3:0:0"
VideoRam 256
#Option "NoLogo"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "AppleHD23"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 30-75
VertRefresh 30-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "NVIDIA GeForce 6600"
Monitor "AppleHD23"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1920x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

---

