---
title: "Gateway MX3417 sound and video problems"
date: 2007-06-02
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by branmuffin on 2007-06-02
Ok, I'm using a Gateway MX3417,

Specs (as to my knowledge, if you want a system report from everest I can get one)

AMD Turion 64 clocked at : 2.00 ghz

Nvidia GeForce Go 6100

Nforce 430 chipset

MCP51/ Sigmatel audio card (I'm not too sure about this spec)

960 mb of Ram (1024 mb actual. Video card buffers to this)

Realtek 8185L wireless g.

The issue with the sound is it doesn't work, I've tried several distros asked questions on linuxquestions, but the sound remains unable to work. Alsa notices the card, but no sound works. I've checked and the speakers aren't muted nor is the volume turned down. It's noticed in several instances, STAC9200 analog and digital and MCP51. I can get screenshots if necessary. 

The other issue is video drivers. I've tried installing the packaged ones and the .run files from Nvidia. The drivers install, but they stop working after restart, If a log file of the x server is needed I can get that. I don't know why it does this. In windows I have to download separate drivers for the 6100 to get them to work. I'm using Fiesty, I haven't updated recently because I haven't used it due to lack of video and audio.

If anything is needed as far as specs go or screen shots or logs, don't hesitate to ask.

Thanks.

---

### Post by crimsun on 2007-06-03
> **branmuffin said:**
> Ok, I'm using a Gateway MX3417,

The issue with the sound is it doesn't work, I've tried several distros asked questions on linuxquestions, but the sound remains unable to work. Alsa notices the card, but no sound works. I've checked and the speakers aren't muted nor is the volume turned down. It's noticed in several instances, STAC9200 analog and digital and MCP51. I can get screenshots if necessary.

Please read [http://www.linux-sound.info/alsa/index.php?task=support](http://www.linux-sound.info/alsa/index.php?task=support) and tell me the URL of the paste generated by the alsa-info.sh script linked from that page.

---

### Post by branmuffin on 2007-06-15
hayden@Kittens555:~$ cd /home/hayden/Desktop
hayden@Kittens555:~/Desktop$ sudo sh alsa-info.sh 
Password:
alsa-info.sh: 184: [[: not found
ALSA Information Script v 0.4.28
--------------------------------

This script will collect information about your ALSA installation and sound related hardware, to help diagnose your problem.

alsa-info.sh: 184: [[: not found
By default, the collected information will be AUTOMATICALLY uploaded to a pastebin site.
If you do not wish for this to occur, run the script with the --no-upload argument

Do you want to run this script? [y/n] : read: 184: Illegal option -e
[: 184: y: unexpected operator
alsa-info.sh: 190: [[: not found
alsa-info.sh: 205: [[: not found
alsa-info.sh: 301: [[: not found
alsa-info.sh: 404: [[: not found
alsa-info.sh: 435: Syntax error: Bad substitution
hayden@Kittens555:~/Desktop$ sudo sh alsa-info.sh 
alsa-info.sh: 184: [[: not found
ALSA Information Script v 0.4.28
--------------------------------
Here's what I get. Also, sorry for not responding quickly, I was busy for the past week.

---

