---
title: "7.04 on Sony VAIO AR41S"
date: 2007-07-22
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by fcigoi on 2007-07-22
I have tried to install Ubuntu 7.04 on my brand new Vaio laptop but the install program does not seem to recognize my display and stops after boot on a textual prompt. 
The display is the same type as the previous AR31S model. Has anyone come across the same problem before ?
I woud have thought that the installer would have made it through in VGA mode, but that is not the case. Please HELP !

---

### Post by SamLowry on 2007-07-24
I succeeded installing Feisty on a Vaio AR41S using the alternate install CD
(ubuntu-7.04-alternate-i386.iso, see [http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.04/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.04/)).

That will get you up and running.

Some extra effort was required to get X with the NVidia driver working.

I still have some problems:
- getting the internal RAID-controller to work
- switching off internal speakers when using headphones
- getting the webcam and the TV-tuner to work
- trouble while talking to the USB scanner

On the plus side:
Card-Reader and Hotkeys (volume control!) worked out of the box for me. Also
S-Video-in seems to do it's job.

Most of the Hardware components seem to be one release ahead of what's
supported on linux. So I guess within a year everything will work smoothly.

---

### Post by fcigoi on 2007-07-24
Thanks for the hint. I managed to get to the bottom of the installation by using the alternative disk as you suggested, but there seems to be no way to make the X Server start.
It keeps saying "Screens found but none have a usable configuration". What parametres did you use for video ?

Thanks

---

### Post by SamLowry on 2007-07-24
Get the latest NVidia driver from [http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_100.14.11.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_100.14.11.html)

Run the installer.

Then run nvidia-xconfig

Also see the README (linked from the above page) for valuable information.

The relevant sections of /etc/X11/xorg.conf should look something like this:

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 96.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1200" "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```
FInally to make it work after a reboot I added

```
/sbin/rmmod nvidia
```
right before

```
start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --oknodo --pidfile $PIDFILE --name gdm $SSD_ARG -- $CONFIG_FILE
```
in /etc/init.d/gdm.

```
cd /lib/linux-restricted-modules/2.6.20-16-generic/
mv nvidia .nvidia
depmod -a
```

Unless I forgot something that should do the trick. I'm sure there are smarter ways to do this but this worked for me.


Oh and in case the CD-drive doesn't work add

```
ide_generic
```

to /etc/modules and if you want audio on your headphones try

```
options snd-hda-intel model=vaio-ar
```
in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base

---

### Post by neokod on 2007-09-13
Hi,

I want to buy this computer but you seems to have a lots of problems... 

About the Camera this should work with this driver :
[http://lsb.blogdns.net/ry5u870/](http://lsb.blogdns.net/ry5u870/)
(if someone can confirm, and if you can try to make a right-click into a Flash animation and to clic on the webcam tab, and on the webcam rectangle to tell me if the webcam works under Flash).

Can you tell me what working and not working ?
- the resolution 1960x ? Compiz / Beryl ?
- RAID1 by the BIOS ?
- Reading Blu-Ray disc ?
- Writing disc, blu-ray disc ?
- Webcam with the previous driver
- ACPI ? sleep / restore ?
- CardReader support SD-Card ?

Thanks a lots

---

### Post by SamLowry on 2007-10-09
[INDENT]Can you tell me what working and not working ?
- the resolution 1960x ? Compiz / Beryl ?[/INDENT]

1920x1200, Compiz/Beryl are working

[INDENT]- RAID1 by the BIOS ?[/INDENT]

No, but haven't tried too hard since I don't want it anyway.

[INDENT]- Reading Blu-Ray disc ?[/INDENT]

No.

[INDENT]- Writing disc, blu-ray disc ?[/INDENT]

CD & DVD are no problem, haven't tried blue-ray due to lack of blanks.

[INDENT]- Webcam with the previous driver[/INDENT]

No, the driver supports up to device ID 05ca:1836 but the AR41S sports a webcam with device ID 05ca:1839

[INDENT]- ACPI ? sleep / restore ?[/INDENT]

Sleep worked (suspend to ram), suspend to disk didn't. Tested before the recent upgrade to gutsy.

[INDENT]- CardReader support SD-Card ?[/INDENT]

Works.

---

