---
title: "7.10 nvidia drivers"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Folic on 2007-10-18
I've having a really hard time installing the nvidia drivers, so that i can use the effects in 7.10. When i goto the restricted driver manger thing, and try to enable the nvidia accelerated graphics driver, it says "the software source is not enabled"

I have a Geforce FX 5900.

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by Zamboniman on 2007-10-18
> **Folic said:**
> I've having a really hard time installing the nvidia drivers, so that i can use the effects in 7.10. When i goto the restricted driver manger thing, and try to enable the nvidia accelerated graphics driver, it says "the software source is not enabled"

I have a Geforce FX 5900.

Thanks for the help


On your menu click System/Administration/Software Sources

Once this opens click (enable) the 

Proprietary drivers for devices (restricted) 

line. This should get you going.  You may want to enable other software sources while you're in there.

---

### Post by Folic on 2007-10-18
Alright i did that, but i still get the error. I tried going an installing the drivers via add/remove software, but when i go to check the drivers it just sits there and loads (the mousr icon is spinning) and it just keeps doing that. And also when i download lists ect from sources, i get a lot of "Failed"

---

### Post by chrishere01 on 2007-10-18
so yea 
i think the command is
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx
so yeah

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-10-18
Use Envy.

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3086232.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3086232.0)

Note the tweak required if you're running Gutsy.  :)

---

### Post by Folic on 2007-10-18
Alright i got installed, and i enabled the extra effects, now my question is, how do i use the cube, ect, and how do i edit the new effects?

---

### Post by Zamboniman on 2007-10-19
> **Folic said:**
> Alright i did that, but i still get the error. I tried going an installing the drivers via add/remove software, but when i go to check the drivers it just sits there and loads (the mousr icon is spinning) and it just keeps doing that. And also when i download lists ect from sources, i get a lot of "Failed"

This is likely just a result of the fact that thousands upon thousands of people all over the world are slamming the ubuntu servers on this, the release day. I suspect in a couple of days you'll have no problems.


> **Folic said:**
> Alright i got installed, and i enabled the extra effects, now my question is, how do i use the cube, ect, and how do i edit the new effects?


Did you install compizconfig-settings-manager?  Do so if you haven't, this will allow you to change a lot more stuff than you can change from ubuntu's standard appearance prefs.

---

### Post by LosD on 2007-10-19
Is Envy the same kind of system-screwing crap as Automatix, just for 3D drivers?

---

### Post by dantum on 2007-10-19
Envy just installs latest drivers for you, Nothing else. It actually worked for me first time on my crappy Ati Xpress 200m. But with gutsy my card worked with drivers supplied from ubuntu repositories and effects work.

I agree that his problems might be something to do with people upgrading and killing servers.

---

### Post by FredB on 2007-10-19
> **LosD said:**
> Is Envy the same kind of system-screwing crap as Automatix, just for 3D drivers?

No ! It is far better than automatix, but kinda useless with gutsy.

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-10-20
> **FredB said:**
> No ! It is far better than automatix, but kinda useless with gutsy.

Au contraire, my skeptical friend!  With an extraordinarily simple tweak in one line of the installer code, Envy works perfectly on Gutsy.  The tweak is described in the 29 July blog here:

[http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?m=200707](http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?m=200707)


:guitar:


[B]
EDIT:  Never mind.[/B]  He's already released a new version of Envy that supports Gutsy (he obviously had it up his sleeve awaiting Gutsy release). 

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)


;-)

---

### Post by kilroy47 on 2007-10-20
I have an older nvidia card. When I enable the drivers it is unable to boot up. It goes through about four lines over and over, checking for battery power even tho it is on a plugged-in desktop. I would really like to use my card; can anyone help?

---

