---
title: "5024wlmi + 7.04 or 7.10 - wireless problems"
date: 2007-11-12
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by liferow on 2007-11-12
I'm trying to help my friend with Acer 5024 to get wireless working but without succcess (we put a lot of effort(many hours)  in this but couldn't get the wireless connection working). 

I can't give you exact dmesg output and other logs because I was helping  friend remotely. I just wonder if any other user with same laptop also experienced this "twilight zone" effect (and managed to solve it). 

**Situation** (same in 7.04 and 7.10 except that I had to manually install drivers (native and ndiswrapper)  on 7.04 while they load automatically with restricted module manager in 7.10): 

-acer_acpi loaded at boot ... /proc/acpi/acer/wireless enabled 
-network card drivers loaded (they both work with only difference that ndiswrapper gets better connection)
-tried with acerhk too (compiles nicely with small modification of source but result is the same as with acer_acpi from repositories) 
-broadcom network card detected in network manager, wifi-radar and other tools... iwconfig returns correct settings aswell 
-wifi-radar detects local router network (along with other wireless networks around) 

Friend even turned off protection and wireless card would still not get IP over DHCP. Even when we set correct IP adress manually... connection was was still not working.  We first thought that wireless is still not on... but he could switch it off (device was not showing in if/iwconfig or in GUI tools). 

Weird.... on job I had opportunity to test gutsy on HP Compaq 6280s ... and wireless was working out of the box... and wireless connected to any kind of wireless without problem (wep, wpa1-2, unprotected, you name it).... so network manger in  gusty seems to be doing it's job fine. 

Dmesg tells usual stuff about successful load of modules etc. Situation was  identical no matter what driver we used (except for better signal/connection with ndiswrapper - around 50Mb).

If I didn't know it's working flawlessly in windows XP I'd say it's hardware problem.

---

