---
title: "Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 900 Xorg Howto"
date: 2005-08-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by zacman on 2005-08-05
It took many long frustrating hours time to figure this out on my new laptop so I figured I'd post a Howto to help anyone else in a similar situation.  First off, you need to download the latest drivers from here: [http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/](http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/) 
You want the ones labeled "i915...".  Just save this to your home folder or anywhere that is convenient.  Next unzip and untar the contents using the "bunzip2" and "untar" commands.  You will also need your kernel headers.  Get these with "sudo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r)".
Then navigate to the untared dirrectory "dripkg" from the driver tarball and run the intaller script "sudo ./install.sh".  If all goes well you can then edit your xorg.conf file in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  Under the device section "Driver" should read "i810".  Since this chipset uses shared system memory for graphics, you can also specify the ammount of system RAM to be shared using "VideoRam" then an ammount in kB.

Below is my xorg.conf as a reference.  If you happen to have an HP DV1000 you can just copy it.

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	65536
	Option		"XaaNoOffscreenPixmaps"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	31.5-90
	VertRefresh	60.0-60.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by gcristofol on 2005-08-16
I've done like you say and I've got the Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 900 on an Dell Inspiron 2200  set up and working. Just a couple of considerations here:

Both i950 and commons must be downloaded from [http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/](http://dri.freedesktop.org/snapshots/)

During the installation the script searches for sources dir (LINUXDIR variable) It expects to found the CONFIG_X86_CMPXCHG in the .config file. I recomend to install the 686 kernel and 686 sources. 

To put it in another words, the default kernel configuration for processor type 386 doesn't have the option CONFIG_X86_CMPXCHG available. 

You dont have to recompile the kernel if you don't want to, but it's necessary to do a make config or make menuconfig in order to generate the right .config file. 

Then what I did is redefine LINUXDIR to point /usr/src/linux and procced to install (.sh) normally.

---

### Post by json684 on 2005-09-14
I was wondering if anyone has gotten the tv out part to work?

---

### Post by mail2sona938 on 2005-09-19
I did th same as zacman asked me to and still when i finish and press ctrl+alt+backspace , i dont get gui. What should I do?? Now I have switched back to vesa driver. I have kernel 686.

---

### Post by knubbe on 2006-01-29
[QUOTE=json684]I was wondering if anyone has gotten the tv out part to work?[/QUOTE]

I have not :neutral: 
If anyone has, please paste your xorg.config

Thanks.

---

### Post by l4lucas on 2006-10-01
Would this work with Intel Extreme Graphics acelerator?

---

### Post by leandir on 2006-12-10
Hi...I have tried to install the i810 driver (I have an Intel 82852/82855 card) but every time I try to compile it, the program says that I need the latest kernel modules...and before you ask, yes, I have installed the linux headers.
This is the output of my dri.log file:

> make DRM_MODULES=i810.o modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/home/luca/Eseguibili/i810-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core'
make -C /lib/modules/2.6.17-10-386/build  SUBDIRS=`pwd` DRMSRCDIR=`pwd` modules
make[2]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.17-10-386'
  CC [M]  /home/luca/Eseguibili/i810-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/ati_pcigart.o
/home/luca/Eseguibili/i810-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/ati_pcigart.c: In function ‘drm_ati_free_pcigart_table’:
/home/luca/Eseguibili/i810-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/ati_pcigart.c:87: error: ‘struct page’ has no member named ‘count’
make[3]: *** [/home/luca/Eseguibili/i810-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core/ati_pcigart.o] Error 1
make[2]: *** [_module_/home/luca/Eseguibili/i810-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core] Error 2
make[2]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.17-10-386'
make[1]: *** [modules] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/luca/Eseguibili/i810-20060403-linux.i386/drm/linux-core'
make: *** [i810.o] Error 2



Any ideas to solve the situation?

---

