---
title: "GSynaptics refuses to work"
date: 2008-02-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Vadi on 2008-02-11
I can't start GSynaptics at all, it complains of the following:

> GSynaptics couldn't initialize.
You have to set 'SHMConfig' 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config to use GSynaptics

The problem is that I don't have that option, or even the word "touchpad" anywhere in my xorg.conf:

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Fri Jan 11 14:27:25 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CPT"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    ModeLine       "1280x800@60" 83.5 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x720@60" 74.5 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x768@60" 80.1 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600M GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1440x900 +0+0; 1280x800@60 +0+0; 1280x720@60 +0+0; 1280x768@60 +0+0; 800x600@60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Can anyone help?

---

### Post by ridetheteapot on 2008-02-11
Maybe the nvidia config overwrote your original xorg.conf and got rid of the touchpad device settings. (maybe you have a backup to confirm this)

first make sure xserver-xorg-input-synaptics is installed.

then add 
> 
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
        Option          "SHMConfig"             "on"
        Option          "MinSpeed"              "0.6"
        Option          "MaxSpeed"              "0.9"
        Option          "AccelFactor"           "0.05"
EndSection


guess you'll have to confirm /dev/psaux also

EDIT::::

always backup your xorg.conf before you run a program like nvidia-config (or use the binary installer off nvidia's site)
but some program make a backup for you in /etc/X11

---

### Post by Vadi on 2008-02-11
Yeah it did overwrite it, I told it not to merge it once (was having troubles getting the drivers to work - I doubt the overwring did it though heh).

I already had xserver-xorg-input-synaptics installed.

Ok, added that section, will restart X

---

### Post by Vadi on 2008-02-11
No, same error.. I even rebooted, and changed the "on" to "true" like it says :(

The problem that I have it that when I'm typing, I accidently lay my hand on it and it makes the mouse move or select things - very annoying. So, I thought gsynaptics might have some option to fix that.. since it's not working though, do you know if anything else does?

---

### Post by ridetheteapot on 2008-02-11
actually "on" is the correct way "true" throws up errors (i know the error says the opposite, but it fixed it for me). but i guess you tried both anyways.

you can try tpconfig, but you might need synaptics working for that (havent tried it myself)
and heres a link to a synaptics howto (with alps touchpad info too). Although my touchpad is alps and synaptics is working fine, without the alps options.
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Synaptics_Touchpad](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Synaptics_Touchpad)
you might want to pay special attention too the device file section (although /proc/bus/input/devices said my touchpad was at /dev/input/mouse2 and it doesnt seem to be the case)

If you get synaptics working and havent seen this howto, i think its what you are looking for [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271052](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271052)


EDIT:::
also do you have 2 mice?
The entry in your xorg.conf for mouse0 would be the one you'd want to edit (or remove) if you added the the section for my xorg, cause its got settings for /dev/psaux and maybe that making trouble for you.

---

### Post by Vadi on 2008-02-11
Yes, I have a USB and a touchpad.

I want to make it so when I plugin my USB mouse, my touchpad gets disabled. And vice versa. Would getting synaptics working be even a step in the right direction?

---

### Post by BenjaminGTF on 2008-02-11
I have not gone through it all the way but there is a pretty detailed HOWTO on gsynaptics here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=493758](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=493758)

---

