---
title: "nc2400 - 6.10 - problems with GRUB and hardware"
date: 2007-04-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by dormant on 2007-04-11
I installed 6.10 onto a brand new HP Compaq nc2400 which had Windows XP preinstalled. I had problems during installation with disk errors, but fixed them and reinstalled 6.10.

Now I have the following problems.

**GRUB**
The following occur intermittently, maybe for 25-50% of the boots
[LIST]
[*]GRUB is very slow
[*]GRUB will not let me choose an operating system from the menu. I can move around, but nothing happens when I hit Enter.
[/LIST]

**Hardware under Ubuntu 6.10**
The following hardware problems occur intermittently, but at the same time. Again it is about 25-50% of the time.
[LIST]
[*]The touch-sensitive buttons for wireless, sound etc don't work.
[*]The power manager in gnome does not respond to events 
[/LIST]

**Windows XP**
No problems

Any ideas what might be wrong?

---

### Post by dormant on 2007-04-13
I eventually worked out that Ubuntu only had the problems when the slow boot had occured.

I used my HP Rescue Disk to go back to the start (WinXP only) and satisfied myself that there were no problems under XP.

I then reinstalled Ubuntu from scratch. 7.04 this time - let's be brave. Everything went well and the problems above do not seem to have appeared.

My only problem now is that Suspend doesn't work properly. When I resume, the keyboard is dead.

But now happy.

---

### Post by linuxturtle on 2007-05-22
FWIW, the problems you experienced are possibly due to the infamous "psmouse" bug.

For some reason, the keyboard controller in some HP laptops seems to go berserk if the machine is rebooted while the psmouse module is loaded.  So the workaround is to simply "rmmod psmouse" at shutdown/reboot.  You can also reset the keyboard controller by removing the battery for 10sec or so (as long as you're not plugged into the power supply, that is :D

---

