---
title: "Last effort to salvage graphics capabilities.."
date: 2006-04-12
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-12
I've got a Packard Bell EasyNote R4 laptop, with something around 1.5GHz, 992MB RAM. Most notably, a 64MB 855GM intel chipset. My default desktop resolution is 1024x768.

My problem comes from trying to play ET ( and some other openGL games ). When I try and play ET, because of my card's limited memory, I'd usually set it to a low resolution ( like 800x600, as I did in Windows ). When I try and do this, it goes into a 800x600 size window in the bottom left hand corner of my screen, leaving the rest blank. The lower the resolution, the smaller the window. The higher the resolution, the more un-playable the game becomes.

I'd been advised to change the desktop resolution to 800x600. Not knowing whether this was the right solution or not, I tried. And failed. I did download 855resolution. I didn't figure how to use it. If someone could help me with that, I'd be very greatful.

At the moment, I'm open to suggestion, and even more open to a little helping hand. Thanks.

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2006-04-17
It is not your desktop resolution, but the resolution option in ET that you need to change.
run the game , choose OPTIONS > SYSTEM and change to 800/600 there.
Also , using the VIEW options de select the ejecting brass and blood spatter etc. to speed up the graphics.
See here for more info 
[http://velocity.lunarpages.com/basicskills.html](http://velocity.lunarpages.com/basicskills.html)

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EnemyTerritory](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EnemyTerritory)

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-17
I do change the game's resolution - And when I do, It does into a small corner. Here's a demonstration.

The smaller resolution I set it to, the smaller it goes into that corner. But the resolution needs to be low, because that's all my card can handle.

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2006-04-18
OK, the only similarity I can reproduce on my machine is when changing to a lower res while not in FULLSCREEN mode the window for ET shrinks. So are you in fullscreen mode? (I expect you are, but, hey, you never know)
The next step for trying to troubleshoot this would be to start ET from the Terminal , exit the game, and look at the messages for clues.
Another track...
855res 
there is a how to here 
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24923](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24923)

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-18
Yep, that's in fullscreen mode, that's why the rest's black.

I've not been able to set my resolution to anything lower, although my xorg configuration allows it; I've tried using the tool 855resolution, but that doesn't change it successfully.

> (EE) I810(0): No Video BIOS modes for chosen depth. (EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration. Fatal server error: no screens found That's the message I receive when I restart X, after changing the resolution using 855resolution. Maybe I'm doing something wrong, like matching the wrong mode with the wrong resolution?



Thanks for your support!

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2006-04-19
What does your xorg.conf look like ?
Do the screen and monitor sections look like the ones detailed in that old How to post I gave you ?

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-19
> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
    		Depth           24
    		Modes           "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


There's my xorg.conf. Sorry I've not slimmed it.

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2006-04-19
Some interesting info here
[http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/xorg/2006-January/012465.html](http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/xorg/2006-January/012465.html)
Maybe you need to put the Vert and Horizontal synch rates for your display in the monitor section and see if that does the trick.
Also, 
How did you acquire your xorg.conf, BTW.?
The screen section doesn't look quite right, especially if you say the default res is supposed to be 1024x768.
What sort of errors are reported in the xorg log?
My Screen section (a flat screen monitor, not a laptop) is like this :
DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
I will investigate your machine specs further....have a look at these...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=114067&highlight=855GM](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=114067&highlight=855GM)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=96673&highlight=855GM](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=96673&highlight=855GM)
[http://wiki.x.org/wiki/FAQVideoModes](http://wiki.x.org/wiki/FAQVideoModes)

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-20
I edited it myself. Probably wrongly.

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-22
I got some advice from a guy that's fixed a problem similar to this. He says:

> What I did to fix:

Specify both a horizontal sync and a vertical refresh.  This fixed all GL apps 
for me.

Ehrm...How?:oops:

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2006-04-22
[QUOTE=Jimmey]I got some advice from a guy that's fixed a problem similar to this. He says:
Ehrm...How?:oops:[/QUOTE]

Go to /var/log  and look for the xorg.0.log file and open it with gedit.
scroll through the log (big file, search if you like, for lines that refer to the Monitor.
there you should find info relating to the Vertical and Horizontal ranges...something like this...

(II) fglrx(0): Supported additional Video Mode:
(II) fglrx(0): clock: 25.2 MHz   Image Size:  304 x 228 mm
(II) fglrx(0): h_active: 640  h_sync: 688  h_sync_end 784 h_blank_end 800 h_border: 0
(II) fglrx(0): v_active: 350  v_sync: 410  v_sync_end 412 v_blanking: 449 v_border: 0
(II) fglrx(0): Ranges: V min: 50  V max: 75 Hz, H min: 31  H max: 61 kHz, PixClock max 80 MHz
(II) fglrx(0): Monitor name: AL1511
(II) fglrx(0):  ACER
(II) fglrx(0): End of Display1 EDID data --------------------

So, from the log My monitor has a vertical range of 50-75       and horizontal  31-61.

You may find all sorts of other warning [WW] and eror messages [EE] which may also give clues as to how to put things right.

Use the Vertical and Horizontal values you find in YOUR log to insert as HorizSync 
and VertRefresh  statements in your xorg.conf file.
(use sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf) copy it to a backup file first, in case you make a mistake and need a working config again..

This is what the section should look like (with YOUR monitor values from your log file, of course, not mine)
Section "Monitor"
HorizSync      31-61
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
VertRefresh    50-75
Modeline "1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

You could also check your Modeline statement is correct by referring to the values for the clock,
h_active,h_sync, h_sync_end, h_blank_end, v_active, v_sync, v_sync_end, v_blanking

If you are going to use the Modeline statement you must declare the mode in the Screen section...

Something like this:

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
SubSection "Display"
        Depth     24
        Modes     "1280x800@60"
 EndSubsection
EndSection


This eliminates all the other mode statements for individual depths that you have in your current config so delete them from the Display subsection.
I have tested this method on my monitor. It works. So find your log file and get looking for those values.

---

### Post by princeton on 2006-04-22
You're welcome to try this script.  It installs 915resolution, makes a link to a startupscript that sets the xreso and yreso of 915resolution at each boot, and rewrites your xorg.conf file (adds your preferred modelines and modes).  It hasn't been tested very well though.  It backs up your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to /etc/X11/xorgbackup.conf in case it causes a crash in your x-server.  If it causes a crash on reboot, just login and type sudo     cp /etc/X11/xorgbackup.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf   and reboot.  You have to extract the attached compressed tar.gz file to your desktop, open a terminal window, type cd Desktop, type sudo ./script16  answer the questions in the terminal window and restart your computer.

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-23
I've searched my xorg.0.log, and found nothing similar to what you posted :S

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2006-04-23
Go to a terminal and issue the command 
grep fglrx /var/log/Xorg.0.log
and see if that finds any info for you.
In any event
Backing up your working config and re configuring the x server could be a good idea :
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

will create a fresh config based on the answers you give. Have you looked in your computer's documentation to try and find the Horiz and Vert refresh rates? I have looked on the PB support site and they are not there..

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-23
No fglrx there.

I'll root around for the documentation. I think it was mostly on the computer when I bought it, which's now been formatted a couple of million times.

I do that re-configure thing, though. Sounds like a plan, to me!

Thanks.

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-28
I made the appropriate back-ups, and sudo dpkg-reconfigured xserver-xorg. Desktop's working, but ET starts with a black screen. Any ideas how to stop this?

Thankyou.

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2006-04-28
You may not have the 3d acceleration working yet...hang on in there,
type   fglrxinfo   in a terminal and let me know what the output is.

also, start et from a terminal and exit the game and look through the text output for error info.

EDIT:****  how about  glxinfo ... sorry about that, I use an ATI card and I have fglrx drivers installed...

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-04-28
[quote=Bash]james@ubuntu:~$ fglrxinfo
bash: fglrxinfo: command not found[/quote]

The ET output doesn't seem at first glance to contain anything by way of errors...I'll check now.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-05-14
The only error I can see is> "/home/james/.etwolf/etmain/ui.mp.i386.so: cannot open shared object file: No su ch file or directory"


This bit might be of interest [quote]PIXELFORMAT: color(16-bits) Z(16-bit) stencil(0-bits)
MODE: 4, 800 x 600 fullscreen hz:N/A
GAMMA: hardware w/ 0 overbright bits
CPU:
[quote]

It's still starting, and staying with a black screen.

---

