---
title: "such a shame"
date: 2007-05-02
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by neubert500 on 2007-05-02
Bought a new Compaq Presario F500. Great machine. Too bad Ubuntu won't install. Yes I have tried the AMD64 install. I really wanted a OS that would be an alterantive to Windows. Its a damn shame that Ubuntu isn't it. I have struggled with installing Ubuntiu on several systems here at home and had my wife excited that we had found an alternative to the windows world. Ubuntu has a nice appearence but it doesn't seem up to the challenge. We've replaced an emachines W2464 and have now bought a wonderful laptop that does everthing I need it to. To damn bad it's a windows only machine, as I'm not taking it back. I'm disappointed but my wife looks to me to provide computer answers and it seems that Ubuntu is not it at current.
If this makes an Ubuntu supporter mad, so be it, I'm very disappointed right now:(

---

### Post by Mike'sHardLinux on 2007-05-03
Hi.

I hope you don't give up on Linux. The reason I ended up with Ubuntu is similar to your problem. I used Fedora/Redhat for years, but around the beginning 2005, I would have issues like not being able to get certain hardware to work, and other stuff, like always having to reconfigure X every time I got a kernel update.

Any way, after trying several distros, I tried Ubuntu, and lo and behold, it worked beautifully out of the box (on my desktops.) That's when I made the switch to Ubuntu on my desktops - I still use Fedora Core on 2 of the servers I run, and have been playing with Ubuntu server on another server.

One issue I had never resolved before was that I could never get any Linux distro to work properly with my wireless nics on my laptops. I could connect fine without any encryption, but I couldn't get any encryption to work, not even WEP. When Feisty was released, I booted with the live-cd on my laptop, and it worked, magically!!!! WITH ENCRYPTION. So I know for a fact that things are improving.

Geez...sorry for the rant. :-)  Well, anyway, like I said, maybe you could try some other distros. Before I decided to stay with Ubuntu, I had some success with Kanotix, Fedora, PC LinuxOS and Damn Small Linux. There's a lot of choices out there, and I guess they all have their strengths.

---

### Post by gradedcheese on 2007-05-03
What's the problem exactly?  That might be more useful to post...  have you tried the alternate install method CDs?  Some hardware is funky and the live CD install won't work well, but the alternate install will.  Really, just post what you did, how far you got, what/where the error is and I am sure that we'll resolve it.  I've never seen any laptop that Ubuntu didn't install on.

---

### Post by jjordan on 2007-05-03
Have you tried any of the boot paramaters?  I had to try a couple to get an old MAC TiBook to boot the disk.  I think you press TAB when the Boot menu comes up to see the optional paramaters. 

-j

---

### Post by boblr on 2007-05-04
I'm having the same problem with the Presario F500 I bought last week.  When I try to install Ubuntu, the screen goes black.  The machine appears to be completely locked up.  This also happens when I try to boot up in Safe Graphics mode.  It happens about when Gnome is about to start up.

Is a log or other documentation generated by the failed boot that I could look at and/or upload?

If you Google on **Presario F500 Ubuntu** you'll find a link to a fellow on [http://cro.alienpants.com/](http://cro.alienpants.com/) who has had this problem with both Ubuntu and Debian.  He seems to have found a workaround for Debian.  I don't know what it is.  He seems to think its a problem with the NVIDIA GeoForce Go6150 video card.

I'm a first time user of Linux, but I'll keep looking into this, since the Vista OS that came with the machine sucks so hard.

Any ideas?:confused:

---

### Post by gradedcheese on 2007-05-04
Boot the machine, press Control+Alt+F1 to get to a shell.  Then "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg", now set it up for some default video, like vesa, rather than NVidia.  Then try logging in to Gnome (Control+Alt+F7) again or reboot ("sudo reboot").  If you cannot get to the shell due to a real crash, have Linux boot to runlevel 3 (this can be done by passing an argument at boot time via grub, take a look on google, I think it's just "linux 3").

---

### Post by rodrigouroz on 2007-05-10
I have the same laptop and the very same problem. I couldn't solve it yet. It freezes when it's about to start the X. Have you solved this?

---

### Post by Eddie Wilson on 2007-05-10
Sorry you are having problems with your laptop. You do need to try to find out what is causing your problems before giving up. And if the truth be known, there is no such thing as a windows only machine. Good Luck.
Eddie

---

### Post by xfile087 on 2007-05-19
> **rodrigouroz said:**
> I have the same laptop and the very same problem. I couldn't solve it yet. It freezes when it's about to start the X. Have you solved this?

That's easy enough to fix, just add vga=792 to your boot options.

I have a different problem where upon reboot Ubuntu insists on checking the recovery partition because it thinks it was mounted over 4000 days ago. Fair enough... Only it hangs.

[I][B]After searching google some more and getting it to translate some pages into English I read somewhere to use noapic when booting.

Just tried it again with noapic instead of vga=792 and wow it booted perfectly, video, sound etc and before when I had installed Ubuntu and it ejects the CD and you press enter - it just would not reboot. It would hang. Where as now it reboots fine and I don't know if it was to do with noapic but I also didn't get any hangs with the recovery partition.

:D[/B][/I]

---

### Post by neubert500 on 2007-05-22
I was very tired and disgusted when I posted my original message. I am not giving up on Ubuntu! I have grown very attached to the OS and feel uneasy anytime I'm working in Windows now. I have been very busy lately and just now saw the work arounds posted above. I can't wait to get home to try them. The F500 seems like a good investment for me, I just want to enjoy it without VIsta.

Thanks guys!:D

---

### Post by neubert500 on 2007-05-22
Success!!:D
It took me a while but I now have  Fiesty running on my F500. It's gonna take me a little longer to get my wireless access but I'm hopeing that I'm headed in the right direction. thanks for the encouragement and knowledge. 
No more shame, I'M PROUD TO BE AN UBUNTU USER!

Now to learn more.
thanks again

---

### Post by jglen490 on 2007-05-22
Congrats!!  It's a great feeling when it all comes together.  Now don't be shy about bringing any wireless difficulties - and don't forget the details, to.  Including the output of things like lspci -v, lshw, ifconfig, iwconfig, and the contents of certain files like /etc/network/interfaces is always useful.

We're here!!

---

### Post by ice60 on 2007-05-29
hi, i used the noapic option to get ubuntu installed on my ompaq Presario F500, but once it was installed the noapic kept on causing errors 
> Disabling IRQ #7 that was the error, it happened a couple of minutes after each boot along with a beep! after taking the noapic away that error stopped. i've only had the laptop a day so i'm not sure if there are any other problems, i hope not :|

---

### Post by shanerdaner on 2007-05-30
Hi
just bought this and I am having the black screen problem as well how did u fix it?

---

### Post by neubert500 on 2007-05-31
> **shanerdaner said:**
> Hi
just bought this and I am having the black screen problem as well how did u fix it?

Just follow the instructions posted and add the vga=792 to your boot options,as quoted eariler. It fixed mine and it now runs Ubuntu well. Just have to get time to bring the wireless up to speed.

---

### Post by shanerdaner on 2007-06-01
where is the option to put that at?  in the bios?   am kinda confused sorry.

---

### Post by shanerdaner on 2007-06-04
got it working any idea on the wireless card?:popcorn:

---

### Post by xfile087 on 2007-06-13
The wireless is fairly easy to get working. Firstly you need to have the ethernet cable in and then if I remember correctly this guide installs the wireless. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297092](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297092). I know it's definitly possible because i've got it working a few weeks ago.

---

### Post by Grundair on 2007-06-14
Hi I have the same Compaq Presario F500 laptop.Well my son does. Nvidia's site says they have the correct driver for the GO 6150 card. But where I am stuck is how do I get it and install for cammand line? OS is 7.04 and a F500 laptob bought 3 days ago. All my other (K) Ubuntu boxes run GREAT but I can not get this laptop to run. Pleae help my 15 year old is about to go back to Vista, (Which he HATES!!:) )

Thanks

Chuck

---

### Post by xfile087 on 2007-06-16
> **Grundair said:**
> Hi I have the same Compaq Presario F500 laptop.Well my son does. Nvidia's site says they have the correct driver for the GO 6150 card. But where I am stuck is how do I get it and install for cammand line? OS is 7.04 and a F500 laptob bought 3 days ago. All my other (K) Ubuntu boxes run GREAT but I can not get this laptop to run. Pleae help my 15 year old is about to go back to Vista, (Which he HATES!!:) )

Thanks

Chuck

My F500 has an Nvidia Go 6100... What exactly is the problem? Running (K) Ubuntu on it or just getting the Nvidia drivers?

If you've got trouble installing the Nvidia drivers go to desktop effects (on 7.04) - it can install the Nvidia drivers for you? Mine did and I even got Beryl working smoothly.

If it's booting/installing which is your problem when you boot from CD press F6 and try adding noapic and vga=792.

---

### Post by Grundair on 2007-06-17
> **xfile087 said:**
> My F500 has an Nvidia Go 6100... What exactly is the problem? Running (K) Ubuntu on it or just getting the Nvidia drivers?

If you've got trouble installing the Nvidia drivers go to desktop effects (on 7.04) - it can install the Nvidia drivers for you? Mine did and I even got Beryl working smoothly.

If it's booting/installing which is your problem when you boot from CD press F6 and try adding noapic and vga=792.

I found out it was SUPER simple to install the correct driver for the GO 6150 Nvidia card. Lust update the repositories and apt-get nvidia-glx-new and reconfigure xorg and it was off like a champ.

Thanks for all the help

---

### Post by soapytheclown on 2007-06-18
seems you guys are having similar problems to us with the compaq v6000 serise check out my thread see if its any help :) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=458164&highlight=v6000](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=458164&highlight=v6000)

---

### Post by xfile087 on 2007-06-25
Hi guys,

When I use the bcm43xx drivers I only get 11mbs...

I managed to get 54mbs using ndiswrapper - which is pretty good considering HP/Compaq don't offer any xp drivers for it - I had to hunt some down. lol. 

Anyway if anyone has the  "Broadcom Corporation Dell Wireless 1390 WLAN Mini-PCI Card (rev 01)" (lspci | grep "Broadcom") card then I can help you get 54mb wireless!

---

### Post by dhen on 2008-03-22
me to my computer that i brougth is not working in ubuntu same problem it's freeze my laptop is 


laptop compaq presario F500
PROCESSOR: AMD TURION64 X2 MOBILE TECHNOLOGY TL-50 1.60 GHZ
MEMORY: 996 MB
SYSTEM TYPE: 32BIT OS
OS TYPE: WINDOWS VISTA PREMIUM
VIDEO CARD: NVIDIA

I try so many times to dual boot in ubuntu but it's fail to boot up my computer freeze when in the middle of installation i search so many times in google to how to boot in linux and with preinstall windows in my computer but still fail i also saw in youtube how to install in dual boot with windows but still im fail i install ubuntu 6.04 and i try 7.10 and 8.04 but still my computer is freezing in the middle of installation process but i have my old computer when i install in my old computer it's okey i try all ubuntu,kubuntu,linux distro in my old computer it's all okey and easy to install but in my laptop it's alway pain so if someone know how to install or maybe somebody install in there computer with the same specification of my coputer can you help me please......


that's why i send a letter to the ubuntu website to make me a copy to send me here and the responds is okey i thank for your effort to send me a copy and i recieved it but if you can help me to step-by-step to install to my computer

---

