---
title: "Oversensitive touchpad Hardy tx1000"
date: 2008-03-03
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by doctor628 on 2008-03-03
Hi all,

I am relatively new with Ubuntu, but I have been able to get Hardy working very well on my laptop. There are minor things not working that I don't really worry too much about. I can wait for a simpler fix for the touchscreen. The thing that is driving me crazy is the touchpad. It is waaaaaaaay too sensitive. Just dragging around the screen selects everything the cursor is over. I googled and found many solutions involving shm enabling in xorg.conf. This does not work for me. Gsynaptics, Qsynaptics, and synclient all complain about shmconfig not being enabled even though I have enabled this. Anyone know of a solution to this?
Thanks
Heres my xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "SHMConfig" "on"
Option "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
Option "MaxTapTime" "0"
EndSection


Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

