---
title: "5.1 Sound drivers"
date: 2005-09-01
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by deathseeker25 on 2005-09-01
Hi people,

I downloaded some ALSA drivers for my Creative SoundBlaster Live! 5.1 soundcard, right here: [http://how.to/sblive](http://how.to/sblive)

I tried to install them as i was installing a normal tar.bz2 file:

cd /directory/directory/...

/.configure

make

make install

When i wrote ./configure in terminal this quote appeared there and the configuration ended there:

> checking for kernel version... The file /usr/src/linux/include/linux/version.h does not exist.
Please, install the package with full kernel sources for your distribution
or use --with-kernel=dir option to specify another directory with kernel
sources (default is /usr/src/linux).


Ok i understood i have to do something in the kernel. But i have never done anything with the kernel, Ubuntu is the first distro i try and i just don't know what i have to do (well and i'm afraid of destroy "everything").

Please give me some help or orientation because i'm really needing it...

Thank you

---

### Post by deathseeker25 on 2005-09-01
Just give me some help people....

Thank you

---

### Post by skoal on 2005-09-01
oops.  You shouldn't need to do any of that anymore.  I have a SB Live! and it works "out of the box" just using the alsa-libs which come with the default install.  What you may need to do in order to hear the 5.1 surround is play with your mixer settings.

You can use the GUI mixer settings in Gnome/KDE to accomplish this, but I just use 'alsamixer' directly from a terminal.

* Once you have those settings displayed, look for the "Wave,Wave Center,Wave LFE, Wave Surround" settings and turn them all up...

\\//_

---

### Post by deathseeker25 on 2005-09-02
Thannk you it helped.... :)

---

