---
title: "Graphics errors with my Ge-Force 6600...."
date: 2005-09-06
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by arcanistherogue on 2005-09-06
Hey.  I have been using Ubuntu since May, and gaming on it since june.  Before I had played all my games on Windows.  I could play 1280 x 1024 on most games and 1024 x 768 on Source-Engine game and get nice framerates.  The same was with Nexuiz and Ut2004 on Ubuntu.

However, I reformatted in August (early, the 2nd) and again about 2 weeks ago in an attempt to solve a problem I got from when I reformatted in August.  Whenever I played a 3-D game (Neverball, Nexuiz, UT2004) it would freeze my computer after 5 minutes.  This really was horrible, and it still happens nnow.  I installed and configured the grapics drivers correctly, but the oddest thing is that games ran through Cedega don't cause this.  I play Half Life 1 at 1024x768 and get the same speeds I do on windows.  This problem only happens with Native Linux games, and not games like Wesnoth and Doom II (non-3d games).

I use KDE by default with transparent panels and eye candy, but the same thing happens in GNOME, and I have all the default settings with even the default wallpaper.  I use 1280x1024 desktop resolution. 

My system specs are:

AMD Athlon 64 bit 3000+ (x86 Ubuntu though)
nVidia Ge-Force 6600 256MB DDRRam
512 MB DDRRam

Anyone know how to fix this?  I really need my gaming fix...

Oh, and here are my glxgears framerates:

> 
16336 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3267.200 FPS
18793 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3758.600 FPS
18804 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3760.800 FPS
18815 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3763.000 FPS
18766 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3753.200 FPS
18774 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3754.800 FPS
18800 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3760.000 FPS
18795 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3759.000 FPS


Thanks in advance to anyone who at least responds, I have asked this at 3 different places with no answer.  :neutral:

---

### Post by evilghost on 2005-09-06
Those glxgears scores look very low, and I know glxgears is a poor benchmark.  Are you using the official 7676 NVidia driver, or the open-source nv driver?  Additionally, how did you go about installing the driver if you did install the nvidia one?  What does your xorg.conf look like (mind sharing it).

Share the output of:

```

cat /proc/driver/nvidia/agp/card
cat /proc/driver/nvidia/agp/host-bridge
cat /proc/driver/nvidia/agp/status

```

---

### Post by arcanistherogue on 2005-09-06
> john@kubuntu:~$ cat /proc/driver/nvidia/agp/card
Fast Writes:     Supported
SBA:             Supported
AGP Rates:       8x 4x
Registers:       0xff000e1b:0x1f004302
john@kubuntu:~$ cat /proc/driver/nvidia/agp/host-bridge
Host Bridge:     PCI device 10de:00e1 (nVidia Corporation)
Fast Writes:     Supported
SBA:             Supported
AGP Rates:       8x 4x
Registers:       0x1f00421b:0x00000302
john@kubuntu:~$ cat /proc/driver/nvidia/agp/status
Status:          Enabled
Driver:          AGPGART
AGP Rate:        8x
Fast Writes:     Disabled
SBA:             Enabled
john@kubuntu:~$ 

Those are the codes you wanted me to put in. 

I installed from the instructions in the ubuntu guide, drivers via apt-get.  Here is my xorg.conf file:

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600 GT]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-65
	VertRefresh	50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600 GT]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


---

### Post by evilghost on 2005-09-06
You need to comment out the dri module:

```

Section "Module"
Load "bitmap"
Load "dbe"
Load "ddc"
#Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "record"
Load "type1"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

```

Also, tell me what the ouput of:

```

glxinfo|grep -i direct

```

I also need the output of:

```

cat /proc/driver/nvidia/registry
cat /proc/driver/nvidia/version

```

Thanks.

---

### Post by arcanistherogue on 2005-09-07
> john@kubuntu:~$ glxinfo|grep -i direct
direct rendering: Yes 

> john@kubuntu:~$ cat /proc/driver/nvidia/registry
cat: /proc/driver/nvidia/registry: No such file or directory
john@kubuntu:~$ cat /proc/driver/nvidia/version
NVRM version: NVIDIA Linux x86 NVIDIA Kernel Module  1.0-7174  Tue Mar 22 06:44:39 PST 2005
GCC version:  gcc version 3.3.5 (Debian 1:3.3.5-8ubuntu2)
john@kubuntu:~$ 

meh, those aren't the most recent drivers and the second script didn't work...

---

### Post by evilghost on 2005-09-07
You've got some really **really** old drivers.  You'll want to remove all the synaptic installed NVIDIA stuff and go ahead and perform the NVidia offical driver installation.  I know there's a howto, but from what I remember it was pretty darned simple:

```

sudo su
apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`
apt-get install build-essential
apt-get install wget
killall gdm
dpkg -l|grep -i nvidia
[Remove all nvidia dpkgs with --purge option too]
[Login again, and sudo su]
wget http://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-7676/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-7676-pkg1.run
sh ./*.run
[Build it, install it, etc]
[modify your xorg.conf, the one you posted is good, but you'll need to remove the dri module from loading]

```

Hope this helps.  You may want to bounce what I posted above off the actual HOWTO.  I'm going from memory.

---

### Post by arcanistherogue on 2005-09-07
> 
john@kubuntu:~$ glxgears
18422 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3684.400 FPS
20231 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4046.200 FPS
20235 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4047.000 FPS
20237 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4047.400 FPS
20235 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4047.000 FPS
X connection to :0.0 broken (explicit kill or server shutdown).
john@kubuntu:~$


i did evertyhing, and this is glxgears after i installed.  Good scores?

---

### Post by evilghost on 2005-09-07
glxgears is still a pretty bad benchmark, but I believe I was in the 8K range running a 6600GT, and 12K+ running my current 6800GT setup.

Repost the cmds in post #5 and let me know their output, also, be sure to check out my HOWTO below.  While the title/some of the contents may apply to UT2004, many of the xorg.conf/system settings are applicable to your setup.  I wrote it at the time I was running a PNY AGP8X 6600GT.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=49329&highlight=howto](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=49329&highlight=howto)

---

### Post by arcanistherogue on 2005-09-08
> direct rendering: Yes
john@kubuntu:~$ cat /proc/driver/nvidia/registry
VideoMemoryTypeOverride: 1
EnableVia4x: 0
EnableALiAGP: 0
NvAGP: 3
ReqAGPRate: 7
EnableAGPSBA: 0
EnableAGPFW: 0
SoftEDIDs: 1
Mobile: 4294967295
ResmanDebugLevel: 4294967295
FlatPanelMode: 0
DevicesConnected: 0
VideoEnhancement: 0
RmLogonRC: 1
ModifyDeviceFiles: 1
DeviceFileUID: 0
DeviceFileGID: 0
DeviceFileMode: 438
john@kubuntu:~$ cat /proc/driver/nvidia/version
NVRM version: NVIDIA Linux x86 NVIDIA Kernel Module  1.0-7667  Fri Jun 17 07:01:04 PDT 2005
GCC version:  gcc version 3.3.5 (Debian 1:3.3.5-8ubuntu2)
john@kubuntu:~$
                      

I didn't use the 7676 drivers because I read they were only for the Ge-Force 7800.

---

### Post by arcanistherogue on 2005-09-08
Oh wait, when I run GLXGears I run it with the gear window open.  I get about 8k when it is minimized though.  Your supposed to run it while it is open,  right?

---

### Post by evilghost on 2005-09-08
Not sure wher you read that 7676 is only for the 7800 series cards, as you can see by my signature I am running 7676 on a 6800GT.  The 7676 drivers, according to both Phoronix and the NVIDIA changelog show they correct performance related issues with the 7800 series cards.  Even though you are a 6600GT user I would install the newest drivers.

I always run glxgears visible and active.  To benchmark a card by minimizing the grapic intensive application seems pretty moot :)

---

### Post by arcanistherogue on 2005-09-08
Heh

Keep in mind I'm on a 6600, not a GT.

---

### Post by tseliot on 2005-09-08
did you try my guide?

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=57368](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=57368)

I hope it helps you

---

### Post by arcanistherogue on 2005-09-08
I _sort of_ used that guide, I used a bunch of bits and pieces from other guides to get what I needed, but I just  really only needed the beginning part.  I did the installation by myself and I figured it out nicely.

Maybe its because I have transparent Menus?  You can check out my current desktop at [http://arcanis.is-a-geek.com:81/ss.png](http://arcanis.is-a-geek.com:81/ss.png)

---

### Post by evilghost on 2005-09-08
That could very well be the case, like I said, glxgears is a very poor benchmark.  Perhaps use something like a timedemo in Doom3 or a demoplay in UT2004 to better gauge your performance.

I wouldnt' dismiss the 7676 drivers like you have.  The fact you have a standard 6600 card and not a GT has little or no value with locking in on the 7667 drivers.  The scope of cards covered by the 7676 drivers are quite vast.  I'm afraid that you're belief in the 7667 drivers being the *only* drivers you need to run and not to perform upgrades as NVIDIA updates will produce an inferior framerate, performance, and stability seen by users running the newest driver set.

Granted, the 7676 drivers do very little for your card as far as performance benefits (as noted by the changelog), however, newer versions will undoubtedly add new features (such as changes to nvidia-settings [like the addition of coolbits, clock rate adjustments via command line, etc]).

Anyway, in short, I hope I was at least somewhat helpful in answering your original request.

---

### Post by arcanistherogue on 2005-09-12
There is something very odd about this.  I decided to take a screenshot of glxgears running with the nvidia settings for all the info, as shown here:

[http://arcanis.is-a-geek.com:81/images/screens/speedslow.png](http://arcanis.is-a-geek.com:81/images/screens/speedslow.png)

However, i noticed while KSnapshot was open, I got much better framerates, hitting almost 6k.

[http://arcanis.is-a-geek.com:81/images/screens/speedwtf.png](http://arcanis.is-a-geek.com:81/images/screens/speedwtf.png)

This is odd... and I tried setting off all the eye candy, there was no performance difference.

[http://arcanis.is-a-geek.com:81/images/screens/speedwtf2.png](http://arcanis.is-a-geek.com:81/images/screens/speedwtf2.png)


This is most strange.  it can't be KDE, as when this is done in GNOME I never breach 3500 FPS.

Anything else you suggest, besides updating the drivers?  I will do that on a weekend, and thanks alot for all the help youve given me.

---

