---
title: "Hp Dv9731"
date: 2008-04-04
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by nconceicao on 2008-04-04
Hello,

I currently have a HP DV9731 "the 9700 series laptop"
Wondering if anyone has gotten all the "fluff working on it"

The DVD buttons, the volume buttons ect..

I want to go the Ubuntu route but seems from research and trying the live CD that I lose alot of fuctionality.. 

Any able to get it to work?

Thank You

---

### Post by nconceicao on 2008-04-05
From reading the site it seems alot of people are running ubuntu on hp laptops, but do they have all the functionality working?

---

### Post by gviamont on 2008-07-06
I've set up my HP Pavilion dv9700t with Gutsy in the past and recently upgraded to Hardy.  In both distributions I was able to get the sound muting and volume buttons to work correctly, and they even display graphics corresponding to muting or volume increasing/decreasing.

The buttons seem to work out of the box, but for the sound itself the key is to install the linux-backports-modules-generic package (if you have more than one kernel installed, the kernel version may be included in the package name as well).

With that package installed, you then need to go to the sound preferences and change every instance of "Autodetect" to a specific driver (I used either OSS or Alsa).

I haven't messed with the DVD player buttons or the fingerprint reader, but I'll definitely post again after I get a chance to play around with them.

---

### Post by gviamont on 2008-07-18
So it seems that the DVD buttons all work out of the box on totem-xine.  The "DVD" button itself appears to also launch whatever player is your default DVD player.

---

