---
title: "Lenovo 3000 C100"
date: 2006-06-25
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by rscow on 2006-06-25
I have searched the forums and the web, and still haven't answered my question:  Can the subject laptop be used with Dapper?

I note that a member of this forum has gotten a N100 to work.  I also note that an outfit in the UK sells C100's preloaded with Dapper.  They send you a PCMCIA card along with the laptop.  So, I guess they don't address the problems with configuring the wireless card.

It looks to me that this is an excellent machine with a great price point.  I would like to be reassured before I pop for the computer.  I plan to use it as a stand alone linux computer, no dual booting on this one.

I am dual booting at work with an Acer tablet.  No problems there.  

But this machine will be for home/work, and I need the wireless support.

THanks.

ROger

---

### Post by balajint on 2006-06-30
Hi,

Great to hear some news about Lenovo 3000 C 100 . I am from India I am using the following model ( 0761D7A ). I run Debian-Sarge and very recently loaded my machine with Dapper. 

Its wonderful. I dont have access to wireless networks at present and hence not worried about the wireless configuration... But the extra buttons for sound adjustment and muting works fine on Dapper.

The standby and hibernation suppor are excellent. If you are able to find customized and pre-installed version of C 100; then go for it...

Balaji

---

### Post by rscow on 2006-06-30
Thanks for the feedback balajint!  I'm happy to hear that it's working well for you.  I think I might buy one today and get it loaded up as soon as possible.

Best of luck,

Roger

---

### Post by Gargamella on 2006-10-11
i use lenovo 3000 c100 and i think it's is all ok exept for wireless that i made it work quitely ok 
read this about it
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=274987&highlight=lenovo+c100](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=274987&highlight=lenovo+c100)

and i have to try to play a good game...

so it is all ok exept wireless chipset that you have to set and graphics that i don't know (but seems ok)

---

### Post by mthakur2006 on 2006-10-23
Hiya,
I am using a Lenovo 3000 C100 (0761 D7A) brought from India. Let me tell you a thing - Ubuntu Dapper Drake 6.06 LTS works like a DREAM. Win Xp caused so many problems and I thought Ubuntu will cause further problems (but how wrong was I???) I am not dual booting or anything and I am absolutely pleased with the performance. As for the wireless, the iwconfig makes it so easy. I am absolutely at a loss of words to say how good it is and how fast it is and hos secure it is and how reliable it is. Cheers Ubuntu and Cheers Lenovo for making a wonderful machine.

Oh, and btw the 3-in-1 card reader has some problems but i don't use it that much so it does not bother me :)
Thanks,
M Thakur:p :)

---

### Post by LinLenLap on 2006-11-26
Does that mean you guys have been able to resolve standby and get the s-video out port on the back working?

L

---

### Post by mthakur2006 on 2007-05-07
yeah well, i don't use the video out, standby works in fiesty ;)

---

