---
title: "problem with the mouse / left button stopped working"
date: 2005-08-07
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by ign on 2005-08-07
i've been messing around a bit too much with my system lately, and now my mouse's left button doesnt respond.

i have a laptop, so i can still use the touchpad (both buttons work), but i'd like to use my logitech cordless mouse (2 buttons + clickable scroll). how can i fix it?

my problems began when my linux partition got full. to solve this i changed the aMule's Temp folder to a different partition, but then the system was very slow and the left button stopped working.

i'd appreciate your help.

---

### Post by coolclassic on 2005-08-07
If your right button works and the curser moves around the screen get a new mouse.
 :wink:

---

### Post by ign on 2005-08-07
it's a new mouse
logitech cordless click optical mouse
it's not a hardware issue, the mouse works fine under windows

i tried this

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

the mouse worked for a couple of clicks and then the problem came back again.

---

### Post by ign on 2005-08-07
it seems the system is confusing the left button and the center button (wheel), which is very annoying.
is it possible to uninstall and then reinstall the mouse driver?

---

### Post by Gezzer on 2005-08-07
[QUOTE=][/QUOTE]
 try
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
again but don't use "emulate 3 buttons"
set to no and see if that works ...

---

### Post by ign on 2005-08-09
tried this, but the mouse stiils the same. the strange thing is that sometimes the left button does his work, sometimes it doesn't respond, sometimes is the click on the wheel that does what the L button is supposed to do.

is there a nother way to recover the previous setup?

what else could be wrong?

---

### Post by coolclassic on 2005-08-10
If its a usb mouse try changing port.

---

### Post by ign on 2005-08-10
it could be just that... it's been working normally for like 15 minutes now (cross fingers)

---

### Post by Crash80 on 2005-11-20
hi i have the same problem. but i think the problem comes from connection mouse and keyboard to usb. if i do so, i get focus problems with the mouse. sometimes it seems like buttons where pressed although i dont have the mouse in my hand. i tried to enable legacy mode for usb, now i can use my usb keyboard for boot, but with ubuntu it doenst help :(
anybody same problems with connection mouse and keyboard by usb?

---

### Post by xelink on 2005-11-24
EDIT:shoot, posted reply in wrong tab... sorry

pretty much go through resetting this and you should be fine, if not then sorry...

---

### Post by Crash80 on 2005-11-24
i did a lot of testing with my hardware. it looks like my keyboard is b0rked. this phantom mouse clicks seem to be generated by the keyboard. it also happens under windows and on my notebook. so no ubuntu/linux problem here

btw it's an vivanco keyboard

---

