---
title: "7.04 (feisty) not working on Toshiba Satellite 1130 laptop"
date: 2007-05-14
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by aum on 2007-05-14
Hi Ubuntu folks,

While telling my wife about the wonders of Linux and Free/Opensource Software, I tried to boot an unmodified official Feisty Fawn (7.04) desktop CD on her Toshiba Satellite 1130 laptop.

What happened was an embarrassment. After several minutes, during the Gnome desktop startup, it showed a "could not start gnome settings daemon" messagebox, and the Gnome 'startup progress' splash screen (the small flat rectangle) with nothing on it, and just sat there constantly accessing the CD and doing nothing else.

Some minutes later, it showed the gray strips at top and bottom of screen, but did not populate these strips with the usual Gnome applets, task bar, start menu etc.

Even after 15 minutes, there seemed to be no hope that a usable desktop would ever emerge.

Can anyone fill me in on how I could even begin to diagnose/rectify the problem? I've managed to create re-mastered disks successfully, so is there something I could change in the default software setup?

Help please

(I'm trying to file a bug for this on launchpad.net, but the server is unresponsive)

Cheers
aum

---

### Post by aum on 2007-05-14
BTW - Ubuntu 6.06.1 (Dapper) loads on the Toshiba Satellite 1130 laptop just fine. It's just Feisty (7.04) that won't load.

---

### Post by drumkitcat on 2007-05-16
I've had great success running Dapper and then reformatting and running Edgy (which I currently use) on my Toshiba Satellite A40 laptop... I am nervous about upgrading to Feisty because I've read so many problems about it so far... I may just stick with running Edgy for a while!

---

