---
title: "Ubuntu 1650x1050 with nVidia Card"
date: 2007-12-03
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by HaXiT on 2007-12-03
I need help, because my new computer has a nVidia GeForce 6150se Card and it will not go to 1650x1050 resolution. Please help. Thanks in advanced. 

Heres my xorg.conf

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Generic Video Card"
        Driver          "vesa"
        BusID           "PCI:0:13:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection


---

### Post by javierfh on 2007-12-03
Hi,

first of all i suppose that you want to say that you cant get resolution of 1680x1050, which it is the normal one for 20 or 22" monitors.

Second thing is that i suggest you to check from the manufacturer of the monitor, the refresh rates of your model.  That, is important in order to not damage the monitor.

And then what you should try it is to add some lines into your /etc/X11/xorg.conf
in fact this is my old xorg.conf, i have it in one post (the newer one has lots of stuff due to compiz fusion) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=85769&page=12](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=85769&page=12) so the post it is #113 there if you scroll down you can see there are some lines that says something like 

```

SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection

```

so add these to your xorg.conf and see if that helps. I would copy them all from mine..this is only for depth 1 but add them all. I understood that you say the resolutions that you allow your computer to use, and will try with the best, and if it cant will try with lower one.

Hope this helps.

Javi

---

### Post by kwacka on 2007-12-03
possibly using nVidea drivers might help; your config file says that you're using the generic vesa driver.

---

### Post by HaXiT on 2007-12-12
Thanks you guys, but i figured it out. I had to install the nVidia Driver.

---

