---
title: "Msi Ms-16332"
date: 2006-10-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by zachtib on 2006-10-18
I'm thinking of getting an MSI MS-16332, because I want a Turion X2 + Nvidia notebook, and they seem to be scarce.

First, has anyone tried one of these with Ubuntu/Linux?  I plan on running Edgy on it.

Also, the wireless/BT card is this: "MSI MS-6855B BT+WLAN" Will that card work with Linux?

---

### Post by peramus on 2007-03-25
Just wondering if you have gotten linux working on the 16332/675/677 (yeah all the same) I have one and I've gotten everything working (of course I dropped my ralink RT61 based wireless card  for a broadcom 43XX which has "SLIGHTLY" better driver support under linux) 

Nvidia drivers work great, wired ethernet is perfect.  Everything else is great...

EXCEPT SOUND!  Linux detects the card, looks like everything is working perfectly, I can enable and disable optical out and the little red light inside the headphone jack goes on and off.  But alas...  it makes no noise...  I've searched everywhere and looked all over.  No luck.  The oddest thing is that some websites actually sell this laptop with fedora 5 or opensuse PRE-INSTALLED!  Although who knows if they just installed it and made sure it booted but never got the drivers right.

Also the newer BIOS makes a HUGE difference.

---

### Post by peramus on 2007-03-27
BTW, Audio fixed with Kubuntu Feisty 7.04

Don't know how yet, don't know why...  but it is...  Kmixer has a bunch of different sliders now too...

---

