---
title: "Ferrari 4000 Ubuntu - Black Screen Install"
date: 2006-06-19
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by ferrari64 on 2006-06-19
Hi,

I've just tried to install Ubtuntu 6.06 on my Ferrari 4000 laptop. It boots up, showing the Ubuntu logo and normal bootup text - but as soon as it trys to start up the GUI installer (I think) the screen goes blank and the all activity seems to stop.

I know this problem has come up before in Ubtunu 5.10 and I think its because of problems with X-Windows not working properly or detecting the ATI x700 Video Card.

From memory I managed to fix the problem, by changing the xorg.conf settings. I found the instructions on a website - but I can't find it anymore :/

Eitherway however that was only possible AFTER ubuntu was installed. Considering the GUI installer is vital I don't know what to do. Considering it isnt a new problem and that the x700 video card is reasonably popular - I had hoped it would be fixed by this release.

I have thought of using the alternative installer - but I can get my hands on a copy of it for about a week, so I'm hoping I can make it work with the normal GUI installer. 

Also I imagine that changing the xorg.conf settings would be different with the new 6.06 version (???) -  and I would need to find the original guide on how to change the x-windows settings to work with x700/Acer Ferrari 4000.

If any has any advice, help or suggestions it would be really great. 

Thanks! :D 

Dave

---

### Post by glotz on 2006-06-19
Uhm, have you tried the safe-video mode option in boot menu?

---

### Post by zba78 on 2006-06-20
I also have an acer laptop with ATI x700 vga

When the black screen appears press **ALT + F1**

At the prompt type **sudo nano /etx/X11/xorg.conf**

In the file that opens scroll to the bit called ** Section "Device"**

In that section add the line ```
 Option		"MonitorLayout" "LVDS,AUTO"
```

Then save the file (**control + o**) and exit (**control + x**)

The return to X-server with **Alt+F7**

Then press **Control+Alt+Backspace**

That should do the trick.

---

### Post by ferrari64 on 2006-06-22
Thanks for your help – it is very much appreciated! :))

---

### Post by astra2000 on 2006-08-03
> **ferrari64 said:**
> Thanks for your help – it is very much appreciated! :))

see my xorg.conf (ferrari 4005i)


is working very fine 4 me =D> 





# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
   FontPath   "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
   # path to defoma fonts
   FontPath   "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
   Load   "i2c"
   Load   "bitmap"
   Load   "ddc"
   Load   "dri"
   Load   "extmod"
   Load   "freetype"
   Load   "glx"
   Load   "int10"
   Load   "type1"
   Load   "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier   "Generic Keyboard"
   Driver      "kbd"
   Option      "CoreKeyboard"
   Option      "XkbRules"   "xorg"
   Option      "XkbModel"   "pc105"
   Option      "XkbLayout"   "ch"
   Option      "XkbVariant"   "de"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier   "Configured Mouse"
   Driver      "mouse"
   Option      "CorePointer"
   Option      "Device"      "/dev/input/mice"
   Option      "Protocol"      "ExplorerPS/2"
   Option      "ZAxisMapping"      "4 5"
   Option      "Emulate3Buttons"   "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Option          "MetaModes" "1680x1050"
        Option          "CRT2Position" "clone"
        Option          "MonitorLayout" "LVDS,CRT"
      Identifier   "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility X700 (RV410 PCIE)"
   Driver      "ati"
   BusID      "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
   Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
   Option      "DPMS"
   HorizSync   28-84
   VertRefresh   43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
   Identifier   "Default Screen"
   Device      "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility X700 (RV410 PCIE)"
   Monitor      "Generic Monitor"
   DefaultDepth   24
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      1
      Modes           "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      4
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050" 
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      8
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      15
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      16
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
   SubSection "Display"
      Depth      24
      Modes      "640x480" "800x600" "1024x768" "1680x1050"
   EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
   Identifier   "Default Layout"
   Screen      "Default Screen"
   InputDevice   "Generic Keyboard"
   InputDevice   "Configured Mouse"
   InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
   InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
   InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
   Mode   0666
EndSection

---

