---
title: "cisco aironet wlan prob"
date: 2007-06-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by don durito on 2007-06-20
**Solved**
Hi,

I have just bought an old thinkpad x31. Witch is working great despite my wlan card. 
The lshw output tells me that i am using a cisco airnot card and the default aironet driver is used. 
I got 2 wirless connection in my network configuration manager on is eht1 and the other one is wifi0.(don't know why but seems to be common with this card)
 
I am able to scan all the wlans in my surrounding but unable to connect to any of them. I have tried to turn of the wep key on my netgear wgt624 router. After i turned off the encryption and connected via gnome-network-manager (nm-applet). The manager showed me that a connection was established. But if i tried to ping my router i was told that the destiantion host was unreachable. 
On the other hand if i use the wep encryption i am not even able to connect. 

I read verious posts consering this topic but still no answer yet. 
So please help me guys cause without a working wireless connection my new notebook is useless to me.

P.S.: I am running a fresh installtion of Xubuntu 7.04 (feisty fawn); on an IBM thinkpad x31

---

### Post by don durito on 2007-06-20
Here is my dmesg output:
 8703.000000] airo(eth1): Unregistering...
[ 8703.000000] 
[ 8709.124000] airo(): Probing for PCI adapters
[ 8709.124000] airo(eth1): Found an MPI350 card
[ 8710.080000] airo(eth1): WPA is supported.
[ 8710.084000] airo(eth1): MAC enabled 0:2:8a:dd:c0:af
[ 8710.084000] airo(): Finished probing for PCI adapters

I think that means that the module is loaded but my card is not detected. 
please answer guys i am going nuts here

---

### Post by don durito on 2007-06-20
**Solved**
After reading through verios threads i found one which solved my prob.
The problem wasn't my card after all. It was the router.

My card had some problems with the various hex keys generated by my router.
looks something like this ( in you router setup)
key1: 6789dfas98
key2: 5448gh28df
key3: 34jfdsl3423
key4: 23... I think you get it

those were just too much keys for my card. So i copied and paste the first key over all the others...
like this (still in your router setup)
key1: 6789dfas98
key2: 6789dfas98
key3: 6789dfas98
key4: 67..........

Then i tried to log in again and entered the hex key.

And now i writting through wireless lan ;-)

great thanks for all the forums i used

ca 
don

---

