---
title: "5.25in/3.5in floppy combo drive problems"
date: 2007-10-01
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by 900donuts on 2007-10-01
heres the situation

 i bought a copy of the secret of monkey island from a thrift store

 the game is on 8 5.25in floppies

 i salvaged a 5.25in/3.5in floppy drive from my grand fathers old computer (he gave it to be because the mobo stopped working every thing else works he just decided to finally update to XP) 

so any ways the 5.25in part is not working the drive will read the 3.5in drive part but its like the 5.25in drive isn't even there. 

what do i do:confused:

---

### Post by Soybean on 2007-10-01
Is it connected properly? I've never seen a combo drive like that, and it's been a long time since I've even seen a 5.25" drive at all, but I would *guess* that you'd need to connect a floppy cable to it in two places.

But maybe not... 

Is it showing up in the BIOS? 
Is there any information written on the drive about make or model? You could try Googling it. Maybe it needs weird drivers or something.

---

### Post by weblordpepe on 2007-10-01
I beleive you maaay have a problem with the kernel. problem is that the 2.6 kernel did away with support for legacy hardware (i think).

I wold go to a junk yard or something & find a old computer with a 5.25 drive and try & network it off :P

I thoroughly enjoy finding stuff on old media. Once I found an old tape from an Amiga users group from like 15 years ago or something. Ran it through the soundcard using an old tapedeck, and loaded it through software I found to convert it to a ROM image & then fed it into an emulator. It had a debugger & some memory testing apps on it :)

---

### Post by 900donuts on 2007-10-01
its kind of looks like a pair of slim drives stacked on top of each other 

its connected properly it has an old slot connection and the 3.5in part would not work at all if it wasn't

the 3.5in part lights up at the same time as every thing else on boot up but not the 5.25in part

---

### Post by Soybean on 2007-10-01
> **900donuts said:**
> the 3.5in part lights up at the same time as every thing else on boot up but not the 5.25in part

Well... if you're sure it's connected correctly, then that kind of sounds like it may be broken. Some of that old hardware can go pretty easily.

Are you using the same ribbon cable that it was using in your grandfather's computer? I seem to vaguely recall there being something weird about those cables, but I don't remember the details.

---

### Post by 900donuts on 2007-10-01
its the same cable 

is it possible that my system isn't configured for more than one floppy?

the mobo doesn't seem to see it so it doesn't tell the os that its there so the os has to be told to look for it (i could be way off and completely wrong)

---

### Post by weblordpepe on 2007-10-02
Ohh yess now you're talking. You need to tell the BIOS that you have more than one floppy. I'm doubly sure.
You could always try booting into MSDOS and typing **b:** to load up the secondary disk drive.

---

### Post by 900donuts on 2007-10-02
the bios idea worked (YAY :) !)

but theres a new problem (WAHH :( !)

quit crying its not that bad the problem is when i put in the secret of monkey island floppy it says "unable to mount volume
           details > mount: you must specify filesystem type"

---

### Post by weblordpepe on 2007-10-03
FAT16 is what MSDOS used for floppys.

I'm doublely sure.

---

### Post by Officer Dibble on 2007-10-03
> **weblordpepe said:**
> FAT16 is what MSDOS used for floppys.

I'm doublely sure.

I think you also need to specify the capacity of the drive in the BIOS too, on many of them anyway. So, the 5.25 disk will be 360KB, or if not that 720KB.

Also, if I remember rightly the floppy drives use FAT 12, not 16. FAT16 was used on the Hard Disk in the hay day's of DOS. :)

---

### Post by 900donuts on 2007-10-03
so how do i specify the filesystem type?:confused:

---

### Post by Soybean on 2007-10-03
Are you using "mount"? Or is it just magically (almost) working?

If you're using mount, I believe you need to add "-t msdos" to your command. If it's magic... maybe there's an fstab entry? You could look in /etc/fstab and see, anyway. I'm not really sure how Ubuntu handles new floppy drives, since it's been ages since I had a computer with a floppy drive in it. ;)

---

### Post by 900donuts on 2007-10-03
i've just been mounting it graphically (you know that thing thats on the side of the file manager window that shows all the drives in your system)

i have no idea how to mount stuff in the command line:(

---

### Post by Soybean on 2007-10-04
Ah... well... we're getting a bit outside of my experience, here. I learned to mount drives back in the dark ages, so I never got around to figuring out these newfangled graphical things. ;)

Looking at my CD drive, though, I have an idea. I hope this all works the same for a floppy drive:
1) Go to "Computer" in the "Places" menu
2) Hopefully your floppy drive shows up in the main section of the resulting window (not just the side part). Assuming it does, right click on it and select "Properties."
3) Click on the "Drive" tab.
4) Click the arrow beside "Settings"
5) At this point, I have 3 boxes. "Mount Point," "File System," and "Mount Options." First, I would try putting "msdos" in the "File System" box. If that didn't work, I'd take it out and try "-t msdos" in the "Mount Options" box.

So... I'd say, give that a shot... unless someone else comes along who seems to actually know what they're talking about. ;)

---

### Post by TheAL76 on 2007-10-04
A much easier way would be to download the game, and use SCUMM VM to run it.

---

### Post by 900donuts on 2007-10-04
i'll try what soybean described but just in case could some one tell how to do it in the command line (i know how to do stuff in the command line mounting drives isn't one of them)

is downloading the game legal?

---

### Post by Soybean on 2007-10-04
> **900donuts said:**
> i'll try what soybean described but just in case could some one tell how to do it in the command line (i know how to do stuff in the command line mounting drives isn't one of them)

Well, you need to know what device it is (I think it's probably /dev/fd0 or /dev/fd1), and you need a place to mount it (traditionally, one would create a directory like /mnt/floppy/). 

Then, you would use the following command (assuming /dev/fd1 and /mnt/floppy):
```
mount -t msdos /dev/fd1 /mnt/floppy
```

You can also use ```
man mount
``` to find out more about mount.

---

### Post by weblordpepe on 2007-10-04
> **Officer Dibble said:**
> Also, if I remember rightly the floppy drives use FAT 12, not 16. FAT16 was used on the Hard Disk in the hay day's of DOS. :)Why I just think I have been out-nerded :)

---

