---
title: "Read and write access for second HDD"
date: 2007-07-21
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by df9517 on 2007-07-21
I have a second HDD, formated to ext3 and I can not get read&write access to it.

Here are mouted units:

/dev/sdb1 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
procbususb on /proc/bus/usb type usbfs (rw)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
nfsd on /proc/fs/nfsd type nfsd (rw)
rpc_pipefs on /var/lib/nfs/rpc_pipefs type rpc_pipefs (rw)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw)
/dev/sda1 on /media/disk type ext3 (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)  (THIS IS THE DISK not working)

AND here are FSTAB:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=9dff9287-9f7b-419b-aa7c-2be3c8127b44 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=e9ba1742-5e79-4b06-a7ac-b8201d66ad4c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0


I have read many threads but can not find out how to do. Please for any help.

In my ntsf config "enable write access for internal device" is greyed out.

BR
Daniel

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2007-07-21
What is on your first hard drive? if it is linux, why are you using / needing ntfs read/write access? Do you have a dual boot setup on  your 1st HDD. if so what are you trying to achieve, r/w access for Windows and Linux?

From your fstab you have no entries for your 2nd HDD (assuming sdb1 is your 1st HDD and sdb5 is your swap)

Run 
```
sudo fdisk -l
```
from a terminal and report back output.

I would guess that your 2nd HDD would be /dev/sdc.

---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2007-07-21
-- edit: why are you using ntfs-config, when none of your drives are ntfs?

---

### Post by df9517 on 2007-07-21
Thanks for reply.

The purpose is that I just want to have a second HDD. Presently I can not use it since I do not have read&write access.

I use only Linux on one HDD (SDB1). I can not access to SDA1 is formated as ext3.

Yeah I understand I probably do not need to use NTSF config but that was one of all sollutions I have tried.



sudo fdisk -l   gives me following output:



Disk /dev/sda: 40.9 GB, 40982151168 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4982 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1        4982    40017883+  83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1       30024   241167748+  83  Linux
/dev/sdb2           30025       30401     3028252+   5  Extended
/dev/sdb5           30025       30401     3028221   82  Linux swap / Solaris

---

### Post by df9517 on 2007-07-22
Nobody who can help me to get read and write access?

---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2007-07-22
Well, tehre is no need for you to use ntfs-config. 

Add this line to your /etc/fstab and restart

```
/dev/sdb1 on /media/disk type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
```

---

### Post by df9517 on 2007-07-23
I have now added this row in fstab

/dev/sdb1 on /media/disk type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)

but it does still not work.

It says the HDD belongs to root when I try to change to read write access in the properties. I can not log in as root.

---

### Post by df9517 on 2007-07-23
Okay, case closed.

I succeded to login as root into gnome and then I could change it.

Thanks for help anyway.

---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2007-07-23
glad you got it working.

read up on sudo (it's godly :D)

---

### Post by df9517 on 2007-07-26
Yeah, I use sudo often. But its idfficult because then you must use th terminal.

I guess the future for amateur Ubuntu users will be that all settings can be changed using graphical interface. This one was only available to change using root.

BTW, why can I not give my user root privilegies? I guess its from a security point of view but......

---

### Post by bluefrog on 2007-07-27
I am facing the same issue from time to time and searching thru udev rules, gnome-volume-manager and so on. On my way to report a bug as one time it works one time not looks like one to me.

USB HDD or flash dish will be automounted with root as owner and then once out of the blue it will be auotomounted with my user as owner which should be the default behaviour.

Tweaking fstab when we are talking about plugable USB HDD is not an option, just a temporary workaround. By the way, if the user is in the sudoer list, no need to tweak fstab, just sudo to write but once again it is a workaround not the solution.

James Dupin

---

