---
title: "3.4Ghz Dual Core Intel, or 2.66 Ghz Core 2 Duo"
date: 2007-12-08
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Redenbacher on 2007-12-08
I'm trying to figure out the bottleneck on my computer, as I don't feel my Nvidia 7950GT is performing up to it's capabilities. Games like CSS and WoW are not getting the fps output that I would expect, although running flawlessly otherwise (and better than they did on windows). 

I think it is my processor, an Intel 3.4Ghz Dual Core. But what would make a 2.66Ghz Core 2 Duo better? The number show lower frequencies, but the tech is newer. Anyone have any insight to this?

---

### Post by zenkaon on 2007-12-08
To find out what processor you have open a terminal and type:
cat /proc/cpuinfo

If you have dual core, then the individual cores will be listed as cpu0 and cpu1.

---

### Post by Rhubarb on 2007-12-08
The Core 2 Duo processors are very fast, a 2.66GHz C2D is faster than a 3.4GHz dual core.
The clock rate of processors doesn't mean much these days, unless you're comparing clock rates within the same family of processors.

Also note that C2D processors are 64bit capable too.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-12-08
The Core 2 Duo in this case is a much better processor.

---

### Post by Redenbacher on 2007-12-08
```
processor       : 0
vendor_id       : GenuineIntel
cpu family      : 15
model           : 6
model name      : Intel(R) Pentium(R) D CPU 3.40GHz
stepping        : 4
cpu MHz         : 2400.000
cache size      : 2048 KB
physical id     : 0
siblings        : 2
core id         : 0
cpu cores       : 2
fdiv_bug        : no
hlt_bug         : no
f00f_bug        : no
coma_bug        : no
fpu             : yes
fpu_exception   : yes
cpuid level     : 6
wp              : yes
flags           : fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe lm constant_tsc pni monitor ds_cpl est cid cx16 xtpr lahf_lm
bogomips        : 6830.36
clflush size    : 64

processor       : 1
vendor_id       : GenuineIntel
cpu family      : 15
model           : 6
model name      : Intel(R) Pentium(R) D CPU 3.40GHz
stepping        : 4
cpu MHz         : 2400.000
cache size      : 2048 KB
physical id     : 0
siblings        : 2
core id         : 1
cpu cores       : 2
fdiv_bug        : no
hlt_bug         : no
f00f_bug        : no
coma_bug        : no
fpu             : yes
fpu_exception   : yes
cpuid level     : 6
wp              : yes
flags           : fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe lm constant_tsc pni monitor ds_cpl est cid cx16 xtpr lahf_lm
bogomips        : 6824.69
clflush size    : 64

```

Was the output, so it is picking up 2 processors. Why is the core 2 duo a better processor? Would my processor be the bottle neck for a 256MB Nvidia 7950GT?

Other specs:
1GB dual-channel 533Mhz RAM
ASUS P5LD2 Mobo
Thermaltake 500Watt PS
Seagate Barricuda 7200 RPM 80GB HDD

I'm considering getting more RAM as well, but I never come close to topping out the 1GB I already have.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-12-08
> Why is the core 2 duo a better processor?

There are a lot of reasons, but mainly it's because it was designed to do more work per clock cycle and be more efficient from the beginning. When Intel conceived the NetBurst/P4/PD architecture, the goal was raw clock speed and they envisioned hitting 10GHz with the architecture. Of course, they ran into current leakage (major heat) when they shrunk to 90nm for the infamous Prescott core.

---

### Post by Redenbacher on 2007-12-08
Ah ok, I see. So would my current processor be bottlenecking my video performance?

---

### Post by Rhubarb on 2007-12-09
Perhaps your video drivers aren't the newest?
Try out envy to give you the latest nvidia drivers which might lower your perceived bottleneck when playing games:
[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by uwishurockedthishxc on 2007-12-09
yeah.  im gonna assume your running a pentium d in which case its bottlnecking you somewhat.  but in the games you are mentioning it shouldnt make a difference.  with your configuration you should be getting 60+ constant frames per second

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-12-09
I've been doing benchmarks for HD video between a Pentium D 3 GHz (dual core) and a Core 2 Duo 2.66 GHz.  The Core 2 Duo smokes the older processor.  Part of the reason is the 1066 MHz front side bus versus the 200 MHz bus.  The shared (and larger) cache means both processors have equal access to it and more efficient since the same operation codes don't have to reside in both processor caches.  

I'm sure there are motherboard improvements as well.  The Intel 945 chipset supports Pentium D and it has its bottlenecks.  The newer Intel chipsets 965, 975, P35, etc are designed for the Core 2 Duo with improvements in overall throughput.

Your memory might be slower.  Are you running dual channel?  Can you push the memory speed in the bios?  Try running ddr2 667 or ddr2 700 speeds.  What are your megabits/sec transfer speed) according to memtest?

You're in a tough situation, because you can't simply upgrade the processor.  Motherboards that run the Pentium D generally won't support the Core 2 Duo.  And if they do, they are running in a slower compatibility mode.

Your better off getting a new motherboard and matched Core 2 Duo processor.  Search for super_pi in the forums and you will see speed comparisons (~28 seconds vs 16 seconds in this case).  This makes a Core 2 duo roughly twice the speed of a comparable Pentium D.

The bottom line:  for watching/decoding High Definition the Pentium D (~3 GHz) will play 720p movies fine, but stutter at 1080p movies.  Every time a processor hits 100%, you get a stutter.  720p will eat up ~60-70% CPU (on one processor).  480p eats up 29-30%.  1080p runs at a 90% with peaks at 100% and stuttering.  Perhaps overclocking to 3.4 GHz might work, but I'm not ready to set this board on fire yet.

I have not done any testing with games so I can't say exactly what your performance bottleneck is.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2007-12-10
> Part of the reason is the 1066 MHz front side bus versus the 200 MHz bus.
Just for clarity: The Pentium and C2D both use "quad-pumping", so that the Pentium D is actually running a 200MHz system clock and the older C2D's are running a 266MHz system clock. This translates to 1066MHz vs. 800MHz.

---

