---
title: "how to setup 1024x768 with a Intel 855 GME"
date: 2005-07-24
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Rhino25782 on 2005-07-24
Hi everybody,

I had Mandrake Linux a while ago and couldnt get it up and running in 1024x768 and it is a pain to use the GUI in 800x600, isn't it. So I gave up at some point. This week I gave it another shot and installed the latest stable Ubuntu distribution on my laptop, WinXP remaining as primary OS.

Technically I am a Linux newbie and my question is what steps do I have to make to enjoy X sessions in 1024x768? I already tried several approaches suggested in this forum, for example I toyed around with some of the settings in the xorg.conf (which actually helped me to GET to 800x600... before editing the conf file, I didnt get any graphical screens)...

I am using a Intel (R) 82852/82855 GM/GME graphics adapter and I manually set the driver to 810i (before, it was mistakenly auto-configured to ATI). The problem persists both on the internal generic 1024x768 flat panel screen and my regular Relisys RE 518 screen, and the whole thing works neatly under WinXP. So I assume it is a driver/settings problem in linux... Any hints?

Thanks for your support,
Patrick

---

### Post by tamoore on 2005-07-24
[QUOTE=Rhino25782]Hi everybody,

I had Mandrake Linux a while ago and couldnt get it up and running in 1024x768 and it is a pain to use the GUI in 800x600, isn't it. So I gave up at some point. This week I gave it another shot and installed the latest stable Ubuntu distribution on my laptop, WinXP remaining as primary OS.

Technically I am a Linux newbie and my question is what steps do I have to make to enjoy X sessions in 1024x768? I already tried several approaches suggested in this forum, for example I toyed around with some of the settings in the xorg.conf (which actually helped me to GET to 800x600... before editing the conf file, I didnt get any graphical screens)...

I am using a Intel (R) 82852/82855 GM/GME graphics adapter and I manually set the driver to 810i (before, it was mistakenly auto-configured to ATI). The problem persists both on the internal generic 1024x768 flat panel screen and my regular Relisys RE 518 screen, and the whole thing works neatly under WinXP. So I assume it is a driver/settings problem in linux... Any hints?

Thanks for your support,
Patrick[/QUOTE]
 I had the same screen resolution problem with ubuntu.  So I downloaded and installed Xandros instead.  It setup 1024x768 fine and runs great.

---

### Post by varunus on 2005-07-24
Ubuntu's i810 driver has a problem with some BIOSes reporting faulty video modes; it then refuses to change to a screen res not listed in your BIOS.  (Not all i810 cards have problems; mine got to 1024x768 on my first boot.)  Here is a guide on how to fix your resolution:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27029](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27029)

It will set up the 855resolution program for you, and let you change your desktop res to whatever you want it to be.

Could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf if that doesn't work for you?  After running 855resolution, your xorg.conf needs to have all resolutions you want in it, and have the one you set with 855resolution set as the default (make it first in the list of resolutions).

Enjoy.

---

### Post by Rhino25782 on 2005-07-26
Hi,

thank you for your help, I followed those steps and installed the patch successfully. However, I wasn't successful enough to actually get a resolution of 1024x768 - I am still stuck with the two options of 800x600 @60Hz and 640x480 @70Hz ... Below you will find my xorg,conf....  Any hints?

Regards,
Patrick
> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "unix/:7100"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "dbe"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "record"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "keyboard"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc104"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

 ### Uncomment if you don't want to default to DDC:
	Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
 ### Uncomment if you don't want to default to DDC:
	HorizSync    31.5 - 37.9
	VertRefresh  50.0 - 70.0
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver      "i810"
	BusID       "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     4
		Modes    "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     8
		Modes    "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     15
		Modes    "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection


---

### Post by varunus on 2005-07-26
What are the contents of your /etc/default/855resolution file?  (If it doesn't exist, you need to create it by typing "sudo gedit /etc/default/855resolution" in a terminal.)

Make sure the contents are:
```

MODE=54
XRESO=1024
YRESO=768

```

---

### Post by Rhino25782 on 2005-07-27
Hi.

In fact, I did that as part of the HowTo linked earlier. So the contents of that file are exactly like you suggested.

---

### Post by varunus on 2005-07-29
Hmm...try doing the following:

Change your device section to the following:

```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
Driver "i810"
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
VideoRam 65536 #replace with number of KB of VRAM you have
EndSection
```

Some BIOSes can also report the wrong amount of VRAM, and the intel will think it has 1 MB...Combine the above with 855resolution and see if it works.

Good luck.

---

### Post by Rhino25782 on 2005-07-30
I did that now. I set VideoRam to 32768, as my BIOS tells me it allocates 32MB to the internal graphics controller.

Now, I thought I gave every piece of information to X, the videoRam, the resolution patch, the configuration in the xorg.conf etc...  But it still won't give me my beloved 1024x768 ...

What else could it be. I wasn't sure about the HSync and VSinc numbers that I put in the xorg.conf file (see above).. I took my best guesses after comparing to the Windows settings but I am not sure how accurate the numbers I plugged in really are. Can that be the problem? If so, how can I obtain the correct numbers? It is a generic flat monitor and my laptop didn't come with detailed information such as the VSync and HSync rates :-(

---

### Post by Rhino25782 on 2005-07-31
I checked the ddcprobe output, it is as follows. Could it be that X doesn't recognize the mode "1024x768" because ddcprobe gives modes in the format "1024x768x64k"? Should I change the mode names to incorporate the 64k oder 16m?

pweyers@ubuntu:~$ sudo ddcprobe
Password:
vbe: VESA 3.0 detected.
oem: Intel(r)852MG/852MGE/855MG/855MGE Graphics Chip Accelerated VGA BIOS
vendor: Intel Corporation
product: Intel(r)852MG/852MGE/855MG/855MGE Graphics Controller Hardware Version 0.0
memory: 32576kb
mode: 1280x1024x256
mode: 1280x1024x64k
mode: 1280x1024x16m
mode: 1024x768x256
mode: 1024x768x64k
mode: 1024x768x16m
mode: 640x480x16m
mode: 800x600x64k
mode: 800x600x16m
mode: 640x480x256
mode: 800x600x256
mode: 640x480x64k
edidfail

---

### Post by Rhino25782 on 2005-07-31
One more quotation, hoping that somebody can make sth from it:

This one comes from the Xorg logfile. I put in 3 different styles to refer to the mode 1024x768 at 16bits, but none appears to be working. X then decides to set the virtual size to 800x600. The "45" tag comes from the 855resolution, I thought it might be neccessary to refer to the modes by using those codes.


> (II) I810(0): Generic Monitor: Using hsync range of 15.55-60.00 kHz
(II) I810(0): Generic Monitor: Using vrefresh range of 20.00-70.00 Hz
(II) I810(0): Not using mode "45" (no mode of this name)
(II) I810(0): Not using mode "1024x768" (no mode of this name)
(II) I810(0): Not using mode "1024x768x64k" (no mode of this name)
(II) I810(0): Increasing the scanline pitch to allow tiling mode (800 -> 1024).
(--) I810(0): Virtual size is 800x600 (pitch 1024)
(**) I810(0):  Built-in mode "800x600"
(**) I810(0):  Built-in mode "640x480"
(==) I810(0): DPI set to (75, 75)

---

### Post by varunus on 2005-07-31
It looks to me like your horizontal and vertical refresh rates are set way too low for 1024x768.

Here are mine that allow 1024x768:
        HorizSync    31.5 - 48.5
        VertRefresh  40.0 - 70.0

You could also try commenting out those two lines by putting a '#' in front of them and seeing if it autodetects that 1024x768 is possible.  (Though, it seems autodetecting doesn't work on your computer...)

---

