---
title: "Viewsonic VP191 TFT monitor"
date: 2005-07-06
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by fbn on 2005-07-06
Hi,

is anybody using the Viewsonic VP191 (s or b) TFT monitor with Ubuntu?

I'm thinking about ordering that TFT but a requirement is that it's working fine with Ubuntu :)

---

### Post by philw on 2005-07-07
I am using a Viewsonic VP191S with my Dell X300 laptop and eventually it works fine.

I had to install various Intel 810 related patches and trial-and-error changes to the xorg.config but that had a lot to do with the Intel graphics chip. How much work you have to do will depend on your graphics chip and combination with another monitor or laptop display.

Check for other messages in the forum related to your PC and your graphics chip.

PhilW

---

### Post by fbn on 2005-07-08
would you post your xorg-config here? :)

---

### Post by TransAlien on 2005-07-08
[QUOTE=fbn]Hi,

is anybody using the Viewsonic VP191 (s or b) TFT monitor with Ubuntu?
---------------
I just got one this week to replace a Hitachi CRT. I need to make a change to the monitor section of my xorg.conf now (default refresh frequencies are out of range). I was hoping somebody could point me to a source of valid values for the "monitor" identifier and option.

---

### Post by philw on 2005-07-09
fbn said  "would you post your xorg-config here?"

Here is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf as used with 
Viewsonic VP191S
Dell X300 Laptop, plus the other usual fixes quoted elsewhere to solve problems with the Intel graphics and Dell BIOS.  

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	#FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	#FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	#FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"microsoft"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device Head 1"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option		"MonitorLayout" "CRT,LFP"
	#Option		"DevicePresence" "On"
	Option		"Clone" "On"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device Head 2"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:1"
	#Option		"DevicePresence" "On"
	Option          "Clone" "On"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Viewsonic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Laptop Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection


Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Viewsonic Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device Head 1"
	Monitor		"Viewsonic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Laptop Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device Head 2"
	Monitor		"Laptop Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		0 "Viewsonic Screen" 0 0
	Screen          1 "Laptop Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by fbn on 2005-07-10
cool thank you :)

---

