---
title: "mounting ext3 lost+found"
date: 2007-05-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by ninjaprawn on 2007-05-18
i think im going mad!!!!!!

i cant mount an ext3 and write to it!! it mounts, and the mount point works, but after trying every option, im still not getting any change!!

ok, its a 250gig which had 127gig ntfs (used 2 b winxp c drive) and 113gig ntfs (used to be winxp d drive)

i formated the 127gig to ext3, then went to /etc/fstab changed the file system from ntfs-3g, to ext3, then read everything i could find on the options, and tried what i thought was right!

rebooted, and it mounted, but in nautilus, it has a yellow padlock symbol, and when i open it, it gas a 'lost+found' icon with a red cross symbol.

i then tried to put a file on the drive, and it said;

**Error while copying to "/media/HD".**
and
You do not have permissions to write to this folder.

please help!!
this is my fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb1 :
UUID=df8776fd-18cf-43d4-8b53-d15c09234cc6 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=2fdfbe53-b1dd-484c-b2be-c5e3c59a1042 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda5 /media/NEW\040VOLUME ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
**/dev/hda1 /media/HD auto auto,user,exec,rw,async,dev,suid 1 3**

thanks, hopefully in advance!

---

### Post by Psicolonia on 2007-05-18
have you tried to replace auto with ext3??

it makes no sence, it may be bing recognized as read only.

---

### Post by datdesignguy on 2007-05-18
Hey, looks like you need to give yourself permission to write to the drive.

> Error while copying to "/media/HD".
and
You do not have permissions to write to this folder.

open nautilus and right click on the drive and select "properties" from the context menu, then go to the permissions tab. Are the permissions set?

If it's set to "root" you'll need to do one of two things:

1. open a root nautilus window (open terminal and type ```
gksudo nautilus /media/HD/lost+found"
``` 
This creates a ROOT owned nautilus window for you to navigate and access files with but it's not permanent. You'd
have to use that command everytime you wanted to have ROOT ownership of the drive.

It's much better to go with option number two:

2. goto the command line and give yourself read+write permissions to the entire hard drive:

```
sudo chown -hR YOURUSERNAME /media/HD
``` (replace YOURUSERNAME with your login name.)

**NOTE:** this gives your username permission for not only the directory specified, but all the files and subdirectories contained within that directory/drive... :) very handy :)

---

### Post by ninjaprawn on 2007-05-18
yeah, it was set to root ownership! i thought the options in /etc/fstab would have changed that, but i did
sudo nautilus
and went to /media/HD
then propeties, then changed it and as if by magic it works! cool!

thanks for that!

---

### Post by ss87 on 2007-05-19
That's helped me too! I was using sudo chmod and obviously only getting certain directories available.
What a n00b!!
Thanks

---

