---
title: "Restoring Mounting Options to External USB Hard Drive"
date: 2007-09-19
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by yin on 2007-09-19
Hello everyone,

I was curious yesterday and I changed my mounting options for my external hard drive. Now it won't mount under Ubuntu Feisty. Windows will read it no problem, so it's not corrupted or anything. I just need to know where Ubuntu Feisty stores the information that I enter for the mounting options, and return that file to default. 

Thanks!

---

### Post by Maxtorm on 2007-09-19
Mounting options are stored in /etc/fstab. Can you post its contents here?

---

### Post by priegog on 2007-09-20
System>Preferences>Removable Drives and Media.
A GUI way to fix that

---

### Post by Maxtorm on 2007-09-20
> **priegog said:**
> System>Preferences>Removable Drives and Media.
A GUI way to fix that

Will that work even if the user has monkeyed with the fstab directly?

---

### Post by yin on 2007-09-20
My fstab:
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=98ab30d1-522f-4298-a7af-ac41f7247fe0 / reiserfs notail 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=fd0f5e5e-008f-41af-90d1-9761016ced6f /home reiserfs defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=9284935084933627 /media/sda8 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=981295ee-5557-4e02-841f-0b69153c12e8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

I did not fiddle with the fstab. For mistakes I make there, I know where I made them and am able to restore it. What I did to screw up the mounting options is that I right-clicked the drive on my desktop and went to Properties, then Volume, then Settings, and typed some stuff there. After that, I restarted. So now, my external harddrive only works in Windows.

---

### Post by Maxtorm on 2007-09-20
Ah, I see. My suggestion would be to back up the fstab and then delete the line:
> UUID=9284935084933627 /media/sda8 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 1
Reboot and see if it detects it automatically. If it doesn't, does ntfs-config at least see it? (you're probably already familiar with it, but if not, see: [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html)  )

---

### Post by yin on 2007-09-20
I don't see how my sda8 would affect my external hard drive. Right now, my sda8 is an NTFS shared partition between windows and linux. That one is on my internal harddrive, and works flawlessly. ntfs-config does not see my external hard drive, just my unmounted windows partition.

Thing is, even when successfully mounted, my external hard drive never appeared in the fstab.

I have tried the Removable Drives and Media settings, no use. Is there a force mount option? I remember forcing an umount command once upon a time.

---

### Post by Maxtorm on 2007-09-20
I'm sorry. I totally missed that. As soon as I read the ntfs partition type, I automatically assumed that was the external. Dumb. Anyhow, I'm likely getting a bit out of my depth here, but what if you add the mount point manually to mtab and then do a
```
sudo mount -a
```
??

---

### Post by yin on 2007-09-20
Mtab! What's a mtab? Where do i find it? This could be what I'm looking for!! :D

---

### Post by Maxtorm on 2007-09-21
It's under /etc.

---

### Post by yin on 2007-09-22
Ok, I took a look in there, but didn't really know what I was looking for. I'm still a linux newbie; could you explain to me how to add a mount point to /etc/mtab?

Thanks

---

### Post by Maxtorm on 2007-09-22
I really hope someone more experienced with mount points than I takes up this thread soon, because I think I may be leading you astray (I'm learning along with you...). However, to modify the mtab, use a text editor such as vi or nano:
```
sudo nano /etc/mtab
```
Add a line to the bottom of it such as
```
/dev/sdc1 /media/disk ntfs rw 0 0
```
Two things about this line: (1) /dev/sdc1 has to be the actual device assigned when you connected the USB device (2) the folder /media/disk has to exist.

Here's something else to try (perhaps before we blow our brains out on the mtab). Boot the machine with the drive not connected to the computer. From terminal, type
```
lsusb
```
It should return an empty list of devices (i.e. final column will be 0000:0000). Now connect/power-on the external drive. Wait a few seconds and execute the lsusb command again. Did anything in the list change?

---

### Post by yin on 2007-09-22
Bus 005 Device 007: ID 067b:2506 Prolific Technology, Inc. 

That is the line that changed, so I'm assuming that's my external hard drive. There's also some progress/change on my problem. Now, when I connect the hard drive, ubuntu tells me I don't have sufficient privileges to mount.

Back to the manual mount point, I have no idea how to figure out what my drive is listed as for the /dev/ ...

Thanks so much for your help so far!

---

### Post by yin on 2007-09-23
OK! I've got it up and running. So here is what I did:

I went to System > Administration > Users and Groups. I clicked on my user name, and went to Properties. Then I navigated to the User Privileges tab, and checked to make sure that I've got "Access external storage devices automatically". I also put a check for "Allow the use of fuse filesystems[...]". I clicked OK or Close until the dialogs disappeared.

Next, I opened up Places > Computer. Since I could see my unmounted external hard drive, I right-clicked on that and went to Properties > Volume > Settings and made sure the Mount Point, File System, and Mount Options were all blank.

Then, I went into my /etc/fstab file and deleted the entry I added when trying to manually mount the drive. I saved the file. Exit.

Then I simply reconnected my USB hard drive, and all was normal again! :)

Thanks Maxtorm for your help these past few days as the only member to respond! :D

---

### Post by Maxtorm on 2007-09-23
Excellent Yin! Glad you solved the problem. I don't think I was of much assistance, but happy to be of moral support at least!

---

