---
title: "Nvidia Geforce2 MX 400 fails silently with nvidia drivers"
date: 2007-06-22
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Third Thoughts on 2007-06-22
I just recently swapped out my old ati rage 128 video card for a slightly improved Geoforce2 MX 400 with the hopes of giving compiz/beryl a try. I've managed to get the card working great with the open source "nv" driver, but when I try to use the "nvidia" driver it fails without any sort of error message. When gdm starts up all that appears is a blank screen which does nothing for as long as I leave it. If I try to restart gdm with a Ctrl + Alt+ Backspace nothing responds. The only way to get out is a hard reset. When I load up in safe mode after that and look at the Xorg.0.log there is no obvious error message. 

Anyone have any ideas? From what I understand the Geforce2 MX 400 is supported by the nvidia drivers. If its at all helpful I have a BenQ FP731 17' monitor. Any suggestions would be much appreciated.

~Andrew S.

---

### Post by luscinius on 2007-06-22
Andrew,

from what I know for GeForce2 one needs the 'nvidia-legacy' drivers; 
```
apt-cache show nvidia-glx-legacy
```
and
```
apt-cache show nvidia-glx
```
```
apt-cache show nvidia-glx-new
```
seems to say so.Did you try
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy
```
Though the nvidia site says the latest driver supports Geforce2

Alexander.

---

### Post by Third Thoughts on 2007-06-22
I tried the legacy drivers, but I ran into issues with there being a mismatch between the kernel module and the driver. I didn't want to go through the hassle of compiling a new module because the Nvidia literature claimed that the newest driver supported my module. If that's not the case though then I'll give compiling a try.

The plot just thickened last night though. For some unexplained reason it started working. I had been playing around with my screen resolution and refresh rates, making sure they were exactly what my monitor's tech specs were, so I attributed it to that. I messed around for a few hours, fell in love with beryl, added screenlets, even rebooted at least once and things seemed fine. Went to bed and when I got up this morning it was the black screen all over again. I didn't change my xorg.conf at all and there is absolutely nothing in the log that suggests failure. I'll go ahead and post my xorg.conf if that helps anyone.

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Apr 16 20:37:13 PDT 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen" 0 0
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"
        Inputdevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

        # path to defoma fonts
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        Fontpath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load            "bitmap"
        Load            "dbe"
        Load            "ddc"
        Load            "extmod"
        Load            "freetype"
        Load            "glx"
        Load            "int10"
        Load            "record"
        Load            "v4l"
        Load            "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
        Option          "XkbOptions"    "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Horizsync       31.0    -       81.0
        Vertrefresh     56.0    -       76.0
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "NVIDIA GeForce 2 MX/MX 400"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Option          "AddARGBVisuals"        "True"
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "True"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "NVIDIA GeForce 2 MX/MX 400"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   1
                Modes           "1280x1024"     "1024x768"      "800x600"      "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   4
                Modes           "1280x1024"     "1024x768"      "800x600"      "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   8
                Modes           "1280x1024"     "1024x768"      "800x600"      "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   15
                Modes           "1280x1024"     "1024x768"      "800x600"      "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   16
                Modes           "1280x1024"     "1024x768"      "800x600"      "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   24
                Modes           "1280x1024"     "1024x768"      "800x600"      "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

```

This is the single most bizarre linux issue I've ever had. I'm pretty stumped at this point.

~Andrew S.

---

### Post by Third Thoughts on 2007-06-22
A new bout of weirdness now. I seem to have come up with the correct magical incantation to make things work, but I've got no idea why it works. Basically it seems if I manually remove the default nvidia module using modprobe, put the legacy module in instead, then remove the legacy and put the default back in things work. This is using the default drivers, not the legacy ones. I figured this out when I switched to the legacy drivers and manually inserted the legacy module. The first time I did this it worked, though with some non critical errors. The second time I was back to the failing silently again. I then manually inserted the original module, switched back to the original drivers and it worked. So the basic weirdness is that it refuses to work more than maybe two time in a row before I have to go and start manually re-insert the module. I'll play with it some more and see if I can figure anything more out. I really don't want to have to boot into recovery mode and play with modprobe every couple times I reboot.

~Andrew S.

---

### Post by Third Thoughts on 2007-06-29
Well it turns out my original estimation was wrong. Here is the current formula I've been using to deal with the silent failure. It works, but its damn complicated and somewhat time consuming.

1. Boot up the computer, wait and see if X works.
2. If it fails, reboot and go into safe mode.
3. Remove the nvidia-glx driver and replace it with the nvidia-glx-legacy driver
4. modprobe -r nvidia
5. modprobe -r nvidia-legacy
6. modprobe nvidia-legacy
7. Boot up gdm, everything boots up fine except the legacy driver don't allow 3D effects
8. ctrl + alt + F1 back to the command line
9. stop gdm
10. apt-get install nvidia-glx
11. modprobe -r nvidia
12. modprobe -r nvidia-legacy
13. modprobe nvidia
14. Boot up gdm. Everything works fine now.

Its not a horrible system because it only takes about 2 minutes to go through all 14 steps, but I really would like to figure out what the hell is happening here. This error makes absolutely no sense to me. I've never seen anything like it ever and I've been using computers since I was 5. 

~Andrew S.

---

### Post by nephish on 2007-07-27
howdy !

did you ever get this issue fixed ? i have the same card / same problem

---

### Post by Third Thoughts on 2007-07-28
No I haven't. I'm basically using the work around I described above, though slightly modified. Basically I boot into recovery mode. Then I run these commands

```

apt-get -y nvidia-legacy; modprobe -r nvidia; modprobe -r nvidia-legacy; modprobe nvidia-legacy; gdm; sleep 5s; /etc/init.d/gdm stop

```

then

```

apt-get -y nvidia-legacy; modprobe -r nvidia; modprobe -r nvidia-legacy; modprobe nvidia; telinit 3

```

Because both are in my command history its just a matter of hitting up and hitting enter. I've tried putting the two together and putting them in a bootup script, but it seems not to work. I haven't tried to fix it in a while though, the workaround, as clumsy as it is isn't bad since I only turn my computer on when I get up and off when I go to sleep. I wish I could be of more help, but this has got me absolutely baffled.

~Andrew S.

---

### Post by nephish on 2007-07-28
ok, well thanks for this, will give it a shot.

---

### Post by trumpeteersman on 2007-10-04
I have had the same problem for 2 years now, every once in a while spending 4 to 8 hours searching and trying to fix it again.  Last time I came to the conclusion that the my GeForce4 MX440 was too old to work with the normal binaries and was too new to work with the Legacy drivers.  Recently, my MX440 burnt out and I replaced it with a GeForce2 MX400.  Also recently, I found out that the newest Legacy binaries from Nvidia supported the MX400/440 series and was finally moved from the regular binaries.

I had tried these newest drivers, but the problem persists.

Over the summer I "rented" a GeForce 7600GS and it worked wonders, so it is not my mobo.  In windows, the MX400 works great, so it is not a broken card.

Please, could someone with a working Gf4 MX440 or a Gf2 MX400 post their xorg.conf and a "lspci | grep VGA" command? Also, if you can, list the modules that are used for their GFX card. And any other information that someone might need..

Thank you.

---

### Post by trumpeteersman on 2007-10-29
<bump>

Anyone with a similar card at all?

</bump>

---

### Post by jimrz on 2007-10-29
> **trumpeteersman said:**
> <bump>

Anyone with a similar card at all?

</bump>

Are you still running dapper? I have the same card running feisty, though mine is gnome, and it was no trouble at all setting up and no problems since. You might try moving to feisty or gutsy (I'm planning on doing so this coming weekend  or the following) and see how it does, although I seem to remember it working ok (not as well as feisty) back when I had dapper on it.

---

### Post by trumpeteersman on 2007-10-29
I don't want to upgrade this machine to Gutsy.  I have customized lots of things all over my whole system. Two things I learned about upgrades: It fixes problems, and it creates them.  Some things that work now will not work if I do a dist-upgrade to Gutsy,  My machine works perfectly except for the blasted Firefox memory leak, and the 3D drivers for my Geforce2 MX400.  Why risk my the stability of the rest of my system?  Upgrading to fix things is not how you fix things in Linux.  That might be a great option for someone who wants to fix something without understanding why.   But for me, I wish to solve this problem, and to understand what I have been doing wrong.  You say that you have the same card as me.  Could you please assist me and post my previous requests as to give me a chance to solve this problem.

Thank You

---

### Post by jimrz on 2007-10-29
> **trumpeteersman said:**
> I don't want to upgrade this machine to Gutsy.  I have customized lots of things all over my whole system. Two things I learned about upgrades: It fixes problems, and it creates them.  Some things that work now will not work if I do a dist-upgrade to Gutsy,  My machine works perfectly except for the blasted Firefox memory leak, and the 3D drivers for my Geforce2 MX400.  Why risk my the stability of the rest of my system?  Upgrading to fix things is not how you fix things in Linux.  That might be a great option for someone who wants to fix something without understanding why.   But for me, I wish to solve this problem, and to understand what I have been doing wrong.  You say that you have the same card as me.  Could you please assist me and post my previous requests as to give me a chance to solve this problem.

Thank You

Sorry did not mean to imply upgrade which would be way more hassle, having to go one rung at a time through edgy then feisty, and likely lead to much breakage. I can also understand that, with a lot of customization, doing a backup and fresh install might not be much better by the time you got your system back to where you like it. On the other hand, gutsy is miles ahead of dapper and might just be worth the effort.

My card, on my other system currently running feisty (also well ahead of dapper) is an
```
NV18 [GeForce4 MX440 AGP 8x]
```
with 64 Mb and has never given problems. Under dapper, irc, I simply installed the nvidia driver from synaptic ran the config and it worked straightaway. Under feisty I just enabled the driver from 'Restricted Driver Manager' rebooted and, again, it "just worked". I am afraid that, based on my experience with that card, I cannot be much assistance with your problem other than suggesting a more current ubuntu version or, possibly, trying a script like "envy" to try to get it going properly.

---

### Post by trumpeteersman on 2007-10-30
Thank you for your input.  I have not used an Envy script on dapper before, I will try that.  Could you also post your xorg.conf?

After my NV17 blew up, I had to use a NV11. From what I have heard, the NV17, NV11, and NV18 should have similar Xorg configurations.

---

### Post by jimrz on 2007-10-30
I am at work now. IRC the dapper and feisty ones were somewhat different and I did save a copy of the one from dapper, so will post both when get home this evening.

---

### Post by m10 on 2007-10-30
i've got my nvidia geforce mx/mx 400 with 32mb of ram working by just activating the driver in the restricted driver manager in feisty i can remember that i had it running on dapper too.
Today i tied livecd booting gutsy and a pink-black and white  screen  came up :-s .but i have (still) not invastigated on this further...

---

### Post by Popidge on 2007-10-30
Hi there, i've recently come up with a simliar problem, but with a flashing black and white screen, with wierd squares and lines. It's on a pretty much brand new Install of Gutsy, after enabiling the nvidia restricted driver, it happens. I simply gave up for a bit (it was 2am, i had college in the morning) and booted in recovery mode and switched back to the original nv driver.

One thing that did perk my interest about the Original Post is that the poster had recently switched from an Ati Rage 128, which is the exact situation i'm in here. Could there possibly be some issues with the switch between the two Graphics cards?

Anyway, i will also try the legacy drivers, and i'll pop onto the nvidia website and use thier driver selection feature (where you put in your card and it brings up the best driver), and if that doesn't work, i'll get back to you on it.

Oh and i'll also see if it happens in Feisty too, thank tux i saved my CD for it :)

---

### Post by jimrz on 2007-10-30
> **trumpeteersman said:**
> Thank you for your input.  I have not used an Envy script on dapper before, I will try that.  Could you also post your xorg.conf?

After my NV17 blew up, I had to use a NV11. From what I have heard, the NV17, NV11, and NV18 should have similar Xorg configurations.

Here you go:

1 - from Dapper 

     Originally installed fresh from the 60.06rc live cd and driver from Synaptic installed by manually editing xorg.conf to read "nvidia" rather than "nv" (no there changes) and running the Nvidia xserver config thingy from terminal. This worked without issue and through all updates through June '07 when I moved to feisty
```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier "Configured Mouse"
        Driver "mouse"
        Option "CorePointer"
        Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
        Option "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option "Buttons" "7"
        Option "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
        Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
        Option "Resolution" "100"
  EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-81
	VertRefresh	56-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x]"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
```

2 - from Feisty

     driver installed by simply enabling in 'Restricted Driver Manager' and rebooting.
```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"Buttons"	"7"
	Option		"ButtonMapping"	"1 2 3 6 7"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Resolution"	"100"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x]"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
```

Hope some of this may prove useful

---

### Post by nephish on 2007-10-30
fiesty and gutsy both are broken in mine. Both fresh installs, runs fine with the nv ( the way install configured it ) but when i install the restricted driver, it hangs the GUI after a little bit.

---

### Post by xatos on 2007-11-01
im getting the same problem... any developments?

---

### Post by Virtus92 on 2007-11-06
I have exactly a Geforce2 MX 400 and I can get Compiz and stuff working fine (only I don't want to, ugly). But you need to install the Nvidia-glx drivers! NOT LEGACY! For geforce2 MX 400 you just need the nvidia-glx package. If you install this package everything will go fine. Succes. :D
And if you wonder, this is my xorg.conf:
```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:20 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "nl"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "e1770NSL/T"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
    Monitor        "e1770NSL/T"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "DynamicTwinView" "false"
    Option         "DisableGLXRootClipping" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
        Option         "NoLogo" "True"
        Option         "DynamicTwinView" "false"
        Option         "DisableGLXRootClipping" "True"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by discnerd on 2007-11-08
My guess is that you have a Gateway or something similar and the problem is related to [this]("http://support.gateway.com/s/issues/1-103587706.shtml").  This doesn't help in resolving it, but it seems that it may be on Nvidia's end.

---

### Post by mikeh on 2008-05-13
I have an NV18 card (geforce mx440) that worked well with Edgy(7.10) and the nvidia legacy drivers, running as a HTPC, including hi-def.

But when I tried gutsy or hardy, the Xv video is no good.
IIRC, gutsy was just slow, with bad tearing even in SD.
Now hardy is worse. Xv will not scale properly.
reconfiguring to a minimal xorg.conf doesnt help.

  Both nvidia-glx and nvidia-glx-legacy work OK apart from Xv,
and GLX works in the former.

Anyone got Xv working? I'd buy a new video card if it had a PCI-e slot :-(

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2008-05-13
My NnVidia MX400 was found, restricted driver installed and screns & graphics set my monitor for use...  Everything works perfectly... using nvidia-glx (NOT legacy or new)...

---

### Post by latev on 2008-06-22
Hi guys,

I was wondering if there's any progress made on the subject. I've been struggling for several days now here without any luck so far to get my old Gateway machine with mx400 nvidia video card working in glx mode on Ubuntu Hardy. Again - there's no error messages whatsoever in the xorg log file, the screen flickers several times and then goes black. Any attempt to kill the x server or do a warm reboot freezes my machine. From that point on the only thing I can do is a hard reboot.

tl@Gateway:~$ uname -a
Linux Gateway 2.6.24-19-generic #1 SMP Wed Jun 18 14:43:41 UTC 2008 i686 GNU/Linux

tl@Gateway:~$ sudo lspci -v
[sudo] password for tl: 
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82845 845 [Brookdale] Chipset Host Bridge (rev 04)
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0
        Memory at f8000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=64M]
        Capabilities: [e4] Vendor Specific Information
        Capabilities: [a0] AGP version 2.0

00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82845 845 [Brookdale] Chipset AGP Bridge (rev 04) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
        Flags: bus master, 66MHz, fast devsel, latency 32
        Bus: primary=00, secondary=01, subordinate=01, sec-latency=32
        Memory behind bridge: fc900000-fe9fffff
        Prefetchable memory behind bridge: e4600000-f46fffff

00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 05) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0
        Bus: primary=00, secondary=02, subordinate=02, sec-latency=32
        I/O behind bridge: 0000d000-0000dfff
        Memory behind bridge: fea00000-feafffff
        Prefetchable memory behind bridge: f4700000-f47fffff

00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801BA ISA Bridge (LPC) (rev 05)
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0

00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801BA IDE U100 Controller (rev 05) (prog-if 80 [Master])
        Subsystem: Gateway 2000 Unknown device 500d
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0
        [virtual] Memory at 000001f0 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [disabled] [size=8]
        [virtual] Memory at 000003f0 (type 3, non-prefetchable) [disabled] [size=1]
        [virtual] Memory at 00000170 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [disabled] [size=8]
        [virtual] Memory at 00000370 (type 3, non-prefetchable) [disabled] [size=1]
        I/O ports at ffa0 [size=16]

00:1f.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801BA/BAM USB Controller #1 (rev 05) (prog-if 00 [UHCI])
        Subsystem: Gateway 2000 Unknown device 500d
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0, IRQ 18
        I/O ports at ef40 [size=32]

00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801BA/BAM SMBus Controller (rev 05)
        Subsystem: Gateway 2000 Unknown device 500d
        Flags: medium devsel, IRQ 10
        I/O ports at efa0 [size=16]

00:1f.4 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801BA/BAM USB Controller #1 (rev 05) (prog-if 00 [UHCI])
        Subsystem: Gateway 2000 Unknown device 500d
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0, IRQ 17
        I/O ports at ef80 [size=32]

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] (rev b2) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
        Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Unknown device 8837
        Flags: bus master, 66MHz, medium devsel, latency 32, IRQ 21
        Memory at fd000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
        Memory at e8000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=128M]
        Expansion ROM at fe9f0000 [disabled] [size=64K]
        Capabilities: [60] Power Management version 2
        Capabilities: [44] AGP version 2.0

02:08.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82801BA/BAM/CA/CAM Ethernet Controller (rev 03)
	Subsystem: Intel Corporation EtherExpress PRO/100 VE
	Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 32, IRQ 16
	Memory at feaff000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
	I/O ports at df00 [size=64]
	Capabilities: [dc] Power Management version 2

02:09.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 50) (prog-if 00 [UHCI])
	Subsystem: First International Computer, Inc. VA-502 Mainboard
	Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 32, IRQ 19
	I/O ports at df40 [size=32]
	Capabilities: [80] Power Management version 2

02:09.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 50) (prog-if 00 [UHCI])
	Subsystem: First International Computer, Inc. VA-502 Mainboard
	Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 32, IRQ 20
	I/O ports at df80 [size=32]
	Capabilities: [80] Power Management version 2

02:09.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 51) (prog-if 20 [EHCI])
	Subsystem: First International Computer, Inc. Unknown device 1234
	Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 32, IRQ 17
	Memory at feafec00 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=256]
	Capabilities: [80] Power Management version 2

02:0b.0 Multimedia audio controller: Creative Labs SB Live! EMU10k1 (rev 07)
	Subsystem: Creative Labs Unknown device 8032
	Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 32, IRQ 17
	I/O ports at dec0 [size=32]
	Capabilities: [dc] Power Management version 1

02:0b.1 Input device controller: Creative Labs SB Live! Game Port (rev 07)
	Subsystem: Creative Labs Gameport Joystick
	Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 32
	I/O ports at dff0 [size=8]
	Capabilities: [dc] Power Management version 1




------------------------------------------------------------------------




tl@Gateway:~$ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old 

This is a pre-release version of the X server from The X.Org Foundation.
It is not supported in any way.
Bugs may be filed in the bugzilla at [http://bugs.freedesktop.org/](http://bugs.freedesktop.org/).
Select the "xorg" product for bugs you find in this release.
Before reporting bugs in pre-release versions please check the
latest version in the X.Org Foundation git repository.
See [http://wiki.x.org/wiki/GitPage](http://wiki.x.org/wiki/GitPage) for git access instructions.

X.Org X Server 1.4.0.90
Release Date: 5 September 2007
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
Build Operating System: Linux Ubuntu (xorg-server 2:1.4.1~git20080131-1ubuntu9.2)
Current Operating System: Linux Gateway 2.6.24-19-generic #1 SMP Wed Jun 18 14:43:41 UTC 2008 i686
Build Date: 13 June 2008  01:08:21AM
 
	Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
	to make sure that you have the latest version.
Module Loader present
Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
	(++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
	(WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Sun Jun 22 10:56:41 2008
(==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
(==) ServerLayout "Layout0"
(**) |-->Screen "Screen0" (0)
(**) |   |-->Monitor "Monitor0"
(**) |   |-->Device "Device0"
(**) |-->Input Device "Keyboard0"
(**) |-->Input Device "Mouse0"
(==) Automatically adding devices
(==) Automatically enabling devices
(WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic" does not exist.
	Entry deleted from font path.
(==) FontPath set to:
	/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc,
	/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled,
	/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled,
	/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1,
	/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi,
	/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi,
	/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType
(**) RgbPath set to "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
(==) ModulePath set to "/usr/lib/xorg/modules"
(**) Extension "Composite" is enabled
(II) Open ACPI successful (/var/run/acpid.socket)
(II) Loader magic: 0x81dc500
(II) Module ABI versions:
	X.Org ANSI C Emulation: 0.3
	X.Org Video Driver: 2.0
	X.Org XInput driver : 2.0
	X.Org Server Extension : 0.3
	X.Org Font Renderer : 0.5
(II) Loader running on linux
(II) LoadModule: "pcidata"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libpcidata.so
(II) Module pcidata: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 1.0.0
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 2.0
(++) using VT number 7

(II) PCI: PCI scan (all values are in hex)
(II) PCI: 00:00:0: chip 8086,1a30 card 0000,0000 rev 04 class 06,00,00 hdr 00
(II) PCI: 00:01:0: chip 8086,1a31 card 0000,0000 rev 04 class 06,04,00 hdr 01
(II) PCI: 00:1e:0: chip 8086,244e card 0000,0000 rev 05 class 06,04,00 hdr 01
(II) PCI: 00:1f:0: chip 8086,2440 card 0000,0000 rev 05 class 06,01,00 hdr 80
(II) PCI: 00:1f:1: chip 8086,244b card 107b,500d rev 05 class 01,01,80 hdr 00
(II) PCI: 00:1f:2: chip 8086,2442 card 107b,500d rev 05 class 0c,03,00 hdr 00
(II) PCI: 00:1f:3: chip 8086,2443 card 107b,500d rev 05 class 0c,05,00 hdr 00
(II) PCI: 00:1f:4: chip 8086,2444 card 107b,500d rev 05 class 0c,03,00 hdr 00
(II) PCI: 01:00:0: chip 10de,0110 card 1462,8837 rev b2 class 03,00,00 hdr 00
(II) PCI: 02:08:0: chip 8086,2449 card 8086,3013 rev 03 class 02,00,00 hdr 00
(II) PCI: 02:09:0: chip 1106,3038 card 0925,1234 rev 50 class 0c,03,00 hdr 80
(II) PCI: 02:09:1: chip 1106,3038 card 0925,1234 rev 50 class 0c,03,00 hdr 80
(II) PCI: 02:09:2: chip 1106,3104 card 0925,1234 rev 51 class 0c,03,20 hdr 80
(II) PCI: 02:0b:0: chip 1102,0002 card 1102,8032 rev 07 class 04,01,00 hdr 80
(II) PCI: 02:0b:1: chip 1102,7002 card 1102,0020 rev 07 class 09,80,00 hdr 80
(II) PCI: End of PCI scan
(II) Intel Bridge workaround enabled
(II) Host-to-PCI bridge:
(II) Bus 0: bridge is at (0:0:0), (0,0,2), BCTRL: 0x0008 (VGA_EN is set)
(II) Bus 0 I/O range:
	[0] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x0000ffff (0x10000) IX[B]
(II) Bus 0 non-prefetchable memory range:
	[0] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0xffffffff (0x0) MX[B]
(II) Bus 0 prefetchable memory range:
	[0] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0xffffffff (0x0) MX[B]
(II) PCI-to-PCI bridge:
(II) Bus 1: bridge is at (0:1:0), (0,1,1), BCTRL: 0x000a (VGA_EN is set)
(II) Bus 1 non-prefetchable memory range:
	[0] -1	0	0xfc900000 - 0xfe9fffff (0x2100000) MX[B]
(II) Bus 1 prefetchable memory range:
	[0] -1	0	0xe4600000 - 0xf46fffff (0x10100000) MX[B]
(II) Subtractive PCI-to-PCI bridge:
(II) Bus 2: bridge is at (0:30:0), (0,2,2), BCTRL: 0x0002 (VGA_EN is cleared)
(II) Bus 2 I/O range:
	[0] -1	0	0x0000d000 - 0x0000dfff (0x1000) IX[B]
(II) Bus 2 non-prefetchable memory range:
	[0] -1	0	0xfea00000 - 0xfeafffff (0x100000) MX[B]
(II) Bus 2 prefetchable memory range:
	[0] -1	0	0xf4700000 - 0xf47fffff (0x100000) MX[B]
(II) PCI-to-ISA bridge:
(II) Bus -1: bridge is at (0:31:0), (0,-1,-1), BCTRL: 0x0008 (VGA_EN is set)
(--) PCI:*(1:0:0) nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] rev 178, Mem @ 0xfd000000/24, 0xe8000000/27, BIOS @ 0xfe9f0000/16
(II) Addressable bus resource ranges are
	[0] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0xffffffff (0x0) MX[B]
	[1] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x0000ffff (0x10000) IX[B]
(II) OS-reported resource ranges:
	[0] -1	0	0x00100000 - 0x3fffffff (0x3ff00000) MX[B]E(B)
	[1] -1	0	0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
	[2] -1	0	0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
	[3] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
	[4] -1	0	0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
	[5] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x000000ff (0x100) IX[B]
(II) PCI Memory resource overlap reduced 0xf8000000 from 0xfbffffff to 0xf7ffffff
(II) Active PCI resource ranges:
	[0] -1	0	0xfeafec00 - 0xfeafecff (0x100) MX[B]
	[1] -1	0	0xfeaff000 - 0xfeafffff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[2] -1	0	0xf8000000 - 0xf7ffffff (0x0) MX[B]O
	[3] -1	0	0xfe9f0000 - 0xfe9fffff (0x10000) MX[B](B)
	[4] -1	0	0xe8000000 - 0xefffffff (0x8000000) MX[B](B)
	[5] -1	0	0xfd000000 - 0xfdffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
	[6] -1	0	0x0000dff0 - 0x0000dff7 (0x8) IX[B]
	[7] -1	0	0x0000dec0 - 0x0000dedf (0x20) IX[B]
	[8] -1	0	0x0000df80 - 0x0000df9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[9] -1	0	0x0000df40 - 0x0000df5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[10] -1	0	0x0000df00 - 0x0000df3f (0x40) IX[B]
	[11] -1	0	0x0000ef80 - 0x0000ef9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[12] -1	0	0x0000efa0 - 0x0000efaf (0x10) IX[B]
	[13] -1	0	0x0000ef40 - 0x0000ef5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[14] -1	0	0x0000ffa0 - 0x0000ffaf (0x10) IX[B]
(II) Active PCI resource ranges after removing overlaps:
	[0] -1	0	0xfeafec00 - 0xfeafecff (0x100) MX[B]
	[1] -1	0	0xfeaff000 - 0xfeafffff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[2] -1	0	0xf8000000 - 0xf7ffffff (0x0) MX[B]O
	[3] -1	0	0xfe9f0000 - 0xfe9fffff (0x10000) MX[B](B)
	[4] -1	0	0xe8000000 - 0xefffffff (0x8000000) MX[B](B)
	[5] -1	0	0xfd000000 - 0xfdffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
	[6] -1	0	0x0000dff0 - 0x0000dff7 (0x8) IX[B]
	[7] -1	0	0x0000dec0 - 0x0000dedf (0x20) IX[B]
	[8] -1	0	0x0000df80 - 0x0000df9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[9] -1	0	0x0000df40 - 0x0000df5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[10] -1	0	0x0000df00 - 0x0000df3f (0x40) IX[B]
	[11] -1	0	0x0000ef80 - 0x0000ef9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[12] -1	0	0x0000efa0 - 0x0000efaf (0x10) IX[B]
	[13] -1	0	0x0000ef40 - 0x0000ef5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[14] -1	0	0x0000ffa0 - 0x0000ffaf (0x10) IX[B]
(II) OS-reported resource ranges after removing overlaps with PCI:
	[0] -1	0	0x00100000 - 0x3fffffff (0x3ff00000) MX[B]E(B)
	[1] -1	0	0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
	[2] -1	0	0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
	[3] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
	[4] -1	0	0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
	[5] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x000000ff (0x100) IX[B]
(II) All system resource ranges:
	[0] -1	0	0x00100000 - 0x3fffffff (0x3ff00000) MX[B]E(B)
	[1] -1	0	0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
	[2] -1	0	0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
	[3] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
	[4] -1	0	0xfeafec00 - 0xfeafecff (0x100) MX[B]
	[5] -1	0	0xfeaff000 - 0xfeafffff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[6] -1	0	0xf8000000 - 0xf7ffffff (0x0) MX[B]O
	[7] -1	0	0xfe9f0000 - 0xfe9fffff (0x10000) MX[B](B)
	[8] -1	0	0xe8000000 - 0xefffffff (0x8000000) MX[B](B)
	[9] -1	0	0xfd000000 - 0xfdffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
	[10] -1	0	0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
	[11] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x000000ff (0x100) IX[B]
	[12] -1	0	0x0000dff0 - 0x0000dff7 (0x8) IX[B]
	[13] -1	0	0x0000dec0 - 0x0000dedf (0x20) IX[B]
	[14] -1	0	0x0000df80 - 0x0000df9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[15] -1	0	0x0000df40 - 0x0000df5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[16] -1	0	0x0000df00 - 0x0000df3f (0x40) IX[B]
	[17] -1	0	0x0000ef80 - 0x0000ef9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[18] -1	0	0x0000efa0 - 0x0000efaf (0x10) IX[B]
	[19] -1	0	0x0000ef40 - 0x0000ef5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[20] -1	0	0x0000ffa0 - 0x0000ffaf (0x10) IX[B]
(II) "extmod" will be loaded. This was enabled by default and also specified in the config file.
(II) "dbe" will be loaded. This was enabled by default and also specified in the config file.
(II) "glx" will be loaded. This was enabled by default and also specified in the config file.
(II) "freetype" will be loaded. This was enabled by default and also specified in the config file.
(II) "record" will be loaded by default.
(II) "dri" will be loaded by default.
(II) LoadModule: "dbe"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libdbe.so
(II) Module dbe: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 1.0.0
	Module class: X.Org Server Extension
	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 0.3
(II) Loading extension DOUBLE-BUFFER
(II) LoadModule: "extmod"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libextmod.so
(II) Module extmod: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 1.0.0
	Module class: X.Org Server Extension
	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 0.3
(II) Loading extension SHAPE
(II) Loading extension MIT-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD
(II) Loading extension BIG-REQUESTS
(II) Loading extension SYNC
(II) Loading extension MIT-SCREEN-SAVER
(II) Loading extension XC-MISC
(II) Loading extension XFree86-VidModeExtension
(II) Loading extension XFree86-Misc
(II) Loading extension XFree86-DGA
(II) Loading extension DPMS
(II) Loading extension TOG-CUP
(II) Loading extension Extended-Visual-Information
(II) Loading extension XVideo
(II) Loading extension XVideo-MotionCompensation
(II) Loading extension X-Resource
(II) LoadModule: "type1"
(WW) Warning, couldn't open module type1
(II) UnloadModule: "type1"
(EE) Failed to load module "type1" (module does not exist, 0)
(II) LoadModule: "freetype"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//fonts/libfreetype.so
(II) Module freetype: vendor="X.Org Foundation & the After X-TT Project"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 2.1.0
	Module class: X.Org Font Renderer
	ABI class: X.Org Font Renderer, version 0.5
(II) Loading font FreeType
(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so
(II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
	compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
	Module class: X.Org Server Extension
	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 0.1
(II) NVIDIA GLX Module  96.43.05  Tue Jan 22 20:11:30 PST 2008
(II) Loading extension GLX
(II) LoadModule: "record"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//librecord.so
(II) Module record: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 1.13.0
	Module class: X.Org Server Extension
	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 0.3
(II) Loading extension RECORD
(II) LoadModule: "dri"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libdri.so
(II) Module dri: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 1.0.0
	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 0.3
(II) Loading extension XFree86-DRI
(II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//nvidia_drv.so
(II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
	compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
	Module class: X.Org Video Driver
(II) LoadModule: "kbd"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input//kbd_drv.so
(II) Module kbd: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0, module version = 1.2.2
	Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
	ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 2.0
(II) LoadModule: "mouse"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input//mouse_drv.so
(II) Module mouse: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0, module version = 1.2.3
	Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
	ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 2.0
(II) NVIDIA dlloader X Driver  96.43.05  Tue Jan 22 19:38:46 PST 2008
(II) NVIDIA Unified Driver for all Supported NVIDIA GPUs
(II) Primary Device is: PCI 01:00:0
(--) Assigning device section with no busID to primary device
(--) Chipset NVIDIA GPU found
(II) Loading sub module "fb"
(II) LoadModule: "fb"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libfb.so
(II) Module fb: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 1.0.0
	ABI class: X.Org ANSI C Emulation, version 0.3
(II) Loading sub module "ramdac"
(II) LoadModule: "ramdac"(II) Module "ramdac" already built-in
(II) Loading sub module "xaa"
(II) LoadModule: "xaa"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libxaa.so
(II) Module xaa: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.4.0.90, module version = 1.2.0
	ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 2.0
(II) resource ranges after xf86ClaimFixedResources() call:
	[0] -1	0	0x00100000 - 0x3fffffff (0x3ff00000) MX[B]E(B)
	[1] -1	0	0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
	[2] -1	0	0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
	[3] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
	[4] -1	0	0xfeafec00 - 0xfeafecff (0x100) MX[B]
	[5] -1	0	0xfeaff000 - 0xfeafffff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[6] -1	0	0xf8000000 - 0xf7ffffff (0x0) MX[B]O
	[7] -1	0	0xfe9f0000 - 0xfe9fffff (0x10000) MX[B](B)
	[8] -1	0	0xe8000000 - 0xefffffff (0x8000000) MX[B](B)
	[9] -1	0	0xfd000000 - 0xfdffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
	[10] -1	0	0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
	[11] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x000000ff (0x100) IX[B]
	[12] -1	0	0x0000dff0 - 0x0000dff7 (0x8) IX[B]
	[13] -1	0	0x0000dec0 - 0x0000dedf (0x20) IX[B]
	[14] -1	0	0x0000df80 - 0x0000df9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[15] -1	0	0x0000df40 - 0x0000df5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[16] -1	0	0x0000df00 - 0x0000df3f (0x40) IX[B]
	[17] -1	0	0x0000ef80 - 0x0000ef9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[18] -1	0	0x0000efa0 - 0x0000efaf (0x10) IX[B]
	[19] -1	0	0x0000ef40 - 0x0000ef5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[20] -1	0	0x0000ffa0 - 0x0000ffaf (0x10) IX[B]
(II) resource ranges after probing:
	[0] -1	0	0x00100000 - 0x3fffffff (0x3ff00000) MX[B]E(B)
	[1] -1	0	0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
	[2] -1	0	0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
	[3] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
	[4] -1	0	0xfeafec00 - 0xfeafecff (0x100) MX[B]
	[5] -1	0	0xfeaff000 - 0xfeafffff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[6] -1	0	0xf8000000 - 0xf7ffffff (0x0) MX[B]O
	[7] -1	0	0xfe9f0000 - 0xfe9fffff (0x10000) MX[B](B)
	[8] -1	0	0xe8000000 - 0xefffffff (0x8000000) MX[B](B)
	[9] -1	0	0xfd000000 - 0xfdffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
	[10] 0	0	0x000a0000 - 0x000affff (0x10000) MS[B]
	[11] 0	0	0x000b0000 - 0x000b7fff (0x8000) MS[B]
	[12] 0	0	0x000b8000 - 0x000bffff (0x8000) MS[B]
	[13] -1	0	0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
	[14] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x000000ff (0x100) IX[B]
	[15] -1	0	0x0000dff0 - 0x0000dff7 (0x8) IX[B]
	[16] -1	0	0x0000dec0 - 0x0000dedf (0x20) IX[B]
	[17] -1	0	0x0000df80 - 0x0000df9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[18] -1	0	0x0000df40 - 0x0000df5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[19] -1	0	0x0000df00 - 0x0000df3f (0x40) IX[B]
	[20] -1	0	0x0000ef80 - 0x0000ef9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[21] -1	0	0x0000efa0 - 0x0000efaf (0x10) IX[B]
	[22] -1	0	0x0000ef40 - 0x0000ef5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[23] -1	0	0x0000ffa0 - 0x0000ffaf (0x10) IX[B]
	[24] 0	0	0x000003b0 - 0x000003bb (0xc) IS[B]
	[25] 0	0	0x000003c0 - 0x000003df (0x20) IS[B]
(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(==) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA GPU GeForce2 MX/MX 400 at PCI:1:0:0 (GPU-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): Memory: 65536 kBytes
(--) NVIDIA(0): VideoBIOS: 03.11.01.30.41
(II) NVIDIA(0): Detected AGP rate: 4X
(--) NVIDIA(0): Interlaced video modes are not supported on this GPU
(--) NVIDIA(0): Connected display device(s) on GeForce2 MX/MX 400 at
(--) NVIDIA(0):     PCI:1:0:0:
(--) NVIDIA(0):     Acer X213W (DFP-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): Acer X213W (DFP-0): 65.0 MHz maximum pixel clock
(--) NVIDIA(0): Acer X213W (DFP-0): Internal Single Link TMDS
(II) NVIDIA(0): Assigned Display Device: DFP-0
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1680x1050"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "800x600"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): 
(WW) NVIDIA(0): Unable to validate any modes; falling back to the default mode
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     "nvidia-auto-select".
(WW) NVIDIA(0): 
(II) NVIDIA(0): Validated modes:
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "nvidia-auto-select"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size determined to be 640 x 480
(--) NVIDIA(0): DPI set to (34, 40); computed from "UseEdidDpi" X config
(--) NVIDIA(0):     option
(--) Depth 24 pixmap format is 32 bpp
(II) do I need RAC?  No, I don't.
(II) resource ranges after preInit:
	[0] 0	0	0xe8000000 - 0xefffffff (0x8000000) MX[B]
	[1] 0	0	0xfd000000 - 0xfdffffff (0x1000000) MX[B]
	[2] -1	0	0x00100000 - 0x3fffffff (0x3ff00000) MX[B]E(B)
	[3] -1	0	0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
	[4] -1	0	0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
	[5] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
	[6] -1	0	0xfeafec00 - 0xfeafecff (0x100) MX[B]
	[7] -1	0	0xfeaff000 - 0xfeafffff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[8] -1	0	0xf8000000 - 0xf7ffffff (0x0) MX[B]O
	[9] -1	0	0xfe9f0000 - 0xfe9fffff (0x10000) MX[B](B)
	[10] -1	0	0xe8000000 - 0xefffffff (0x8000000) MX[B](B)
	[11] -1	0	0xfd000000 - 0xfdffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
	[12] 0	0	0x000a0000 - 0x000affff (0x10000) MS[B](OprD)
	[13] 0	0	0x000b0000 - 0x000b7fff (0x8000) MS[B](OprD)
	[14] 0	0	0x000b8000 - 0x000bffff (0x8000) MS[B](OprD)
	[15] -1	0	0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
	[16] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x000000ff (0x100) IX[B]
	[17] -1	0	0x0000dff0 - 0x0000dff7 (0x8) IX[B]
	[18] -1	0	0x0000dec0 - 0x0000dedf (0x20) IX[B]
	[19] -1	0	0x0000df80 - 0x0000df9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[20] -1	0	0x0000df40 - 0x0000df5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[21] -1	0	0x0000df00 - 0x0000df3f (0x40) IX[B]
	[22] -1	0	0x0000ef80 - 0x0000ef9f (0x20) IX[B]
	[23] -1	0	0x0000efa0 - 0x0000efaf (0x10) IX[B]
	[24] -1	0	0x0000ef40 - 0x0000ef5f (0x20) IX[B]
	[25] -1	0	0x0000ffa0 - 0x0000ffaf (0x10) IX[B]
	[26] 0	0	0x000003b0 - 0x000003bb (0xc) IS[B](OprU)
	[27] 0	0	0x000003c0 - 0x000003df (0x20) IS[B](OprU)
(II) NVIDIA(0): Initialized GART.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Built-in logo is bigger than the screen.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode "nvidia-auto-select"
(WW) NVIDIA(0): WAIT (0, 1, 0xffff, 0x00000490, 0x00000490)
(II) Loading extension NV-GLX
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA 3D Acceleration Architecture Initialized
(II) NVIDIA(0): Using the NVIDIA 2D acceleration architecture
(==) NVIDIA(0): Backing store disabled
(==) NVIDIA(0): Silken mouse enabled
(**) Option "dpms"
(**) NVIDIA(0): DPMS enabled
(II) Loading extension NV-CONTROL
(==) RandR enabled
(II) Initializing built-in extension MIT-SHM
(II) Initializing built-in extension XInputExtension
(II) Initializing built-in extension XTEST
(II) Initializing built-in extension XKEYBOARD
(II) Initializing built-in extension XC-APPGROUP
(II) Initializing built-in extension XAccessControlExtension
(II) Initializing built-in extension SECURITY
(II) Initializing built-in extension XINERAMA
(II) Initializing built-in extension XFIXES
(II) Initializing built-in extension XFree86-Bigfont
(II) Initializing built-in extension RENDER
(II) Initializing built-in extension RANDR
(II) Initializing built-in extension COMPOSITE
(II) Initializing built-in extension DAMAGE
(II) Initializing built-in extension XEVIE
(II) Initializing extension GLX
(**) Option "CoreKeyboard"
(**) Keyboard0: always reports core events
(**) Option "Protocol" "standard"
(**) Keyboard0: Protocol: standard
(**) Option "AutoRepeat" "500 30"
(**) Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
(**) Keyboard0: XkbRules: "xorg"
(**) Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
(**) Keyboard0: XkbModel: "pc105"
(**) Option "XkbLayout" "us"
(**) Keyboard0: XkbLayout: "us"
(**) Option "CustomKeycodes" "off"
(**) Keyboard0: CustomKeycodes disabled
(**) Option "Protocol" "auto"
(**) Mouse0: Device: "/dev/psaux"
(**) Mouse0: Protocol: "auto"
(**) Option "CorePointer"
(**) Mouse0: always reports core events
(**) Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
(**) Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
(**) Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
(**) Mouse0: ZAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
(**) Mouse0: Buttons: 9
(**) Mouse0: Sensitivity: 1
(II) evaluating device (Mouse0)
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Mouse0" (type: MOUSE)
(II) evaluating device (Keyboard0)
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Keyboard0" (type: KEYBOARD)
(--) Mouse0: PnP-detected protocol: "ExplorerPS/2"
(II) Mouse0: ps2EnableDataReporting: succeeded

---

