---
title: "Dell External Monitor Nvidia GeForce Go 6800"
date: 2007-04-28
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by davem2312 on 2007-04-28
I have a Dell Inspiron 9300 with an external Dell 2407 WFP.  My graphics card is an nVidia GeForceGo 6800.  I would like to be able to close the laptop lid and use the external monitor.  Here is my xorg.conf file.  As of now, I do not know entirely what the xorg.conf file is doing, since I am new to Linux as a whole.  I am running Ubuntu 6.0.6.

Right now, I can never get the screen to display the image, so I would like to be able to press a button to, or type a command in, or just simply close the laptop to get the external monitor to work.

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Oct 16 22:13:07 PDT 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection


Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1200" "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Thanks,


Dave

---

### Post by huardus on 2007-04-28
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773584](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773584)
Did you try the method from the page? I have dell xps2 with 24" dell monitor, and instructions from the page helped my monitor to display. Good luck.

---

