---
title: "Thinkpad T30 With ATI Radeon 7500 Mobility, no acceleration, rendering"
date: 2007-11-10
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by dapuxter on 2007-11-10
Apologies in advance, because I know this has been asked a lot, but I've tried everything I can find that seems applicable and still have no results. Hopefully you guys can help.

My little brother has an older IBM Thinkpad with an ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 in it. Until recently he was running Feisty and had no problems. He upgraded to Gutsy and since the upgrade there have been two major problems. The first is that it takes a long time (roughly five minutes, give or take a minute) to boot. I've read a few posts on that and found those fixes so I think I can handle that. The second, and more pressing (to him anyway) is that he can't get World of Warcraft to run. I took a look and it appeared to be a generic graphical bug. Checked, and sure enough he was using a generic video driver instead of an ATI specific one.

I loaded the newest ATI driver (followed instructions that I found on here somewhere) and on reboot it loaded in low graphics mode. I checked xorg.conf and it had changed back to using the generic driver and not using fglrx. Changed that line in xorg.conf, rebooted, same results. For some reason it isn't loading fglrx correctly. If I do glxinfo | grep rendering, it returns:

Quote:
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual.
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Here's the xorg.conf file

```

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration
file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X
Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf
manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg
package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade
of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be
automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7
LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
Driver "fglrx"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW
[Radeon Mobility 7500]"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
# InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

```

I looked through the xorg.log files and there are no errors in either (i have xorg.0.log and xorg.0.log.old) at all (At least, no lines start with EE)

I'm probably going to drop him back to Feisty since he had no problems with it, but since I have the laptop here at work and the Feisty disc is at home and I have a good six hours until I can get my hands on the disc, I figured I'd give it a shot of fixing it with Gutsy first.

Anyone have any ideas/input?

Edit: In an attempt to fix the long boot problem, I enabled the pending updates repository, updated, and restarted. Still have inordinately long boot time, but it did NOT load in low graphics mode for the first time. Now, glxinfo | grep rendering returns:

Direct rendering: no (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)

---

### Post by UrbenLegend on 2007-11-12
I have almost the same problem. I have a Dell Inspiron 5100 with a Radeon 7500. It used to work in hardware accelerated mode with the radeon driver, but in Gutsy I am stuck using the vesa driver as the radeon driver gives me a black screen. How do I fix this, I really want to get compiz to run.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2007-12-24
I have the same laptop and it's really getting frustrating.

The problem, as I have figured it, is that the prop driver fglrx doesn't support the Mobility 7500.  So to get direct rendering working you need to use the DRI drivers.  I haven't gotten them to work so far but, others say they have.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580134](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580134)

That is a thread about our laptop and he seems to find success.

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by nat6138 on 2007-12-24
I have the same laptop, and everything 3D ran slow, and I couldn't run Compiz or anything of the sort.

I used this guide:

[http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637569&postcount=9](http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637569&postcount=9)

And everything works wonderful now.

The boot problem is the usplash not in the correct resolution, I believe.

Edit the usplash.conf file to see what the resolution is, and if it is wrong then set it to the right resolution.

So it would be like: sudo gedit /etc/usplash.conf

If you did change the resolution, do a:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure usplash

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2007-12-25
Yeah, I finally had time to mess with xorg.conf and usplash and those were the problems.  Boots up in under a minute, 1140fps from 200-300fps.  And no overheating.  In fact, my 3ghz processor doesn't hit 40% running wine!  Man, I'm really happy.

It's sad that these two laptops seem to be some of the hardest to configure properly, but when it works it really works.

---

### Post by nat6138 on 2007-12-25
I always found the T30 a pain to get working correctly on Ubuntu.

---

### Post by MRCeltic on 2007-12-25
The usplash worked for the boot time.  Although I have the Radeon 7500 32MB card it installs mine as ATi and reads it as 7500 at one point i was having an issue that it would set it as a vesa.  you might get lucky and the drivers will stick but i found that if you messed with anything to much it would send the xorg.conf file nuts and go crazy on you

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2007-12-25
Yeah, I've noticed that the Inspiron 5100 and the T30-40 have a lot of problems.  But the issues seem to mostly stem from ATI and the Mobilty M6/M7/7500.

But yeah, I've killed xorg.conf about 6 times before I got it working.  Kind of useful to have another computer working so you can check the forum instructions while in rescue mode.

---

