---
title: "suddenly FAT32 partition requires root password to access"
date: 2007-06-13
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by DJTurboToJo on 2007-06-13
Hi,

I'm using Ubuntu Feisty with on a Samsung R50 laptop. I have a NTFS partition in which WinXP Home is installed, a FAT32 partition called WIN-LINUX and then a swap and the normal partition for the linux file system. 

Normally, the NTFS and FAT32 partitions are automatically mounted (the existed and were regonized at the installation of ubuntu) at the startup and an icon is displayed on my desktop. After installing some new programs that arent actually connected to partition or file system the only icon that is displayed on my desktop is the NTFS. The Fat32 is not shown. 

However when I go to Places->Computer the FAT32 partition (WIN-LINUX) is shown and I can click on that icon. Then I ll have to type in the root password to get access. And this is new. Well, it s not a big deal but I just dont know what I changed or how to go back to the old setting.

I included my /ect/fstab and /media/.hal-mtab files:

.hal-mtab:
-------------
/dev/sda7	0	0	vfat	nosuid,nodev,shortname=mixed,uid=1000,utf8,umask=077,exec	/media/WIN-LINUX
EDIT: the two following lines came from my external harddrive and has nothing to do with that problem as it s normally unplugged.

fstab:
------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=cc81ae8c-3274-4c0a-9536-de27c7774baa / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=AAE04A6FE04A4235 /media/hda1 ntfs defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
/dev/hda7 /media/hda7 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=d8647910-41f9-4def-a332-e8b66127fc20 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0


I m quite new in using linux and dont really now what to do!? Any suggestion?? Or do you need more information about my system?

Thanks folks,
DJTurboToJo

---

### Post by stealth86 on 2007-06-13
Well, I'm not sure what you changed, but try this. In the terminal type 'cd /media' <enter> then 'ls -al' <enter> with out the quotes of course.

Post the results of those commands. It's possible that the access permissions have been reset on your fat partition.

(oh and you can re-add the link on your desktop through the right click menu;))

---

### Post by neptho on 2007-06-14
add type 'user' or 'users' to your options to allow non-root to /dev/sda7, and remove the default umask.

---

### Post by DJTurboToJo on 2007-06-14
Hello,

that s the result of the ls -al command in /media

total 40
drwxr-xr-x  5 root root     4096 2007-06-14 11:58 .
drwxr-xr-x 21 root root     4096 2007-06-05 22:46 ..
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root        6 2007-06-04 16:01 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root     4096 2007-06-04 16:01 cdrom0
-rw-r--r--  1 root root        0 2007-06-14 11:58 .hal-mtab
--wxr-s--T  1 root root        0 2007-06-05 22:48 .hal-mtab-lock
dr-xr-x---  1 root plugdev 24576 2007-06-13 12:54 hda1
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root     4096 2007-06-04 16:01 hda7

hda1 is my WinXP partition that was never effected by this weird change.
hda7 is empty, the only files that are displayed with ls is '.' and '..' !? However I think that hda7 is the WIN-LINUX partition. 

When I go to System->Preferences->Hardware Information and then look for my harddrive I only see that WIN-LINUX is /dev/sda7 and there is no linux.fstab.mountpoint opposed to WinXP that has this mountpoint.

sda6 is swap
sda5 is volume, my ext3 partition with Ubuntu
sda1 is also called volume and I'm not sure what that is (maybe the bootmanager?)

Thanks

EDIT: So what I think is that it isnt automatically mounted at the startup. That s why I have to type in the root passwd when I click on that hard drive just to mount it. After I ve done this I also see WIN-LINUX mounted in /media:

/media$ ls
cdrom  cdrom0  hda1  hda7  WIN-LINUX

So I just have to mount it again with the startup. My questions are where do I do that (fstab?) and what is this hda7(should that be WIN-LINUX?)

---

