---
title: "Efty doesn't shutdown or reboot"
date: 2006-12-25
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by pecorazza on 2006-12-25
Hi everyone - I have a big ptoblem with latest Ubuntu (Efty Edge)
When I select shutdown or reboot from the gnome "close" screen, it seems like the shutdown process initializes, so I am able to see the Ubuntu bar scrolling, but on a certain point, screen becomes black with a little flashing bar on the top left and the computer "freezes".

After this, the computer doesn't shutdown or reboot so I have to force it with Ctrl+Alt+Del

Is there any solution?

Thanks

---

### Post by pecorazza on 2006-12-25
My post went in second page without any reply ....
That's why I am writing here - just to push it up :) (Sorry for that)

---

### Post by efreddi on 2006-12-26
I have the same issue. When I moved to Edgy everything was fine, but now it happens the same. I didn't track exactly when this happened, but to me it looks like an issue after one of the last security upgrades :-(
Now I try to look for some old thread on the same topic in the forum.


Elia
PS: my laptop is a Dell Latitude C600

---

### Post by efreddi on 2006-12-26
I made a trial:

in the terminal run ***gconf-editor***
in ***apps/gnome_power_manager*** uncheck ***check_type_net***
then quit.

This seems working on my laptop.
From some trial it looks like that the power off process is waiting for some signal from the network, in this way it should be disabled, but I have no idea if this may affect the suspend / sleep mode.
Ciao


Elia

---

### Post by pecorazza on 2006-12-26
Thanks for that - I surely will give it a try ;)

---

### Post by pecorazza on 2006-12-30
Here we are. I tried but unfortunatelly it doesn't work :(

---

### Post by rlozano on 2006-12-30
this is actually a reverse of what is happening with my Toshiba Satellite P20. when i shut it down, and then start it, the screen won't come up anymore. i have to plug it off and remove the battery so the screen will again come up when i start my Toshiba. any ideas?

---

### Post by efreddi on 2006-12-31
> **pecorazza said:**
> Here we are. I tried but unfortunatelly it doesn't work :(

Unfortunatly I'm not an expert, I have no other suggestion :(



Elia

---

### Post by pecorazza on 2007-01-04
Thanks anyway. I have some news.
I excluded quiet mode from grub so now I can read verbose messages.
So during reboot now I see this message:
```

The system has reached a state where there are no jobs running.
A shell will be spawned so that you can start such jobs that are necessary.

Type 'exit' when finished.
root@pecorazza:

```
After this I am asked to put my enter my password for system maintenance, or to enter Ctrl+D to continue - in which case nothing happens. Fortunately the shutdown command works so I don't have to force shutdown.
It seems that this is a problem generated by upstart::

[http://upstart.ubuntu.com/](http://upstart.ubuntu.com/)

but I couldn't find a workaround

---

