---
title: "1280x800"
date: 2007-01-22
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by dr johnson on 2007-01-22
[COLOR="Blue"]**EDIT:**[/COLOR] OK folks, to cut a long thread short, we have an answer! System > Administration > Synaptic Package Manager > 915resolution. Download it and then reboot your computer. It should work.[COLOR="Blue"]**END EDIT.**[/COLOR]



I have bought an "Advent 7111" laptop, which has a screen resolution of 1280x800 pixels, and the appendix in the booklet that comes with it has the following entry: "Graphics: nVIDIA G72M/MV-128(factory option)"

Many here will of course know that 1280x800 is one of those pesky configurations that causes problems for wannabe ubuntu users!

Following the very early instructions at [http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/ChangeResolution](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/ChangeResolution) the xorg.conf file now shows this:



# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection



... so i now see that that file "recognises" the 1280x800 status of my screen. Yet it still doesn't show anything properly. Everything is stretched and a little ugly and System>Preferences>Screen Resolution still shows 1024x768. Please help me to get ubuntu talking to the screen in the 1280x800 mode.

---

### Post by dr johnson on 2007-01-22
Sorry about the inadequate title for this thread: if i could work out how to edit it, i would, but it seems only the main text in the post can be edited...

---

### Post by dr johnson on 2007-01-22
A bit more information, in case it's useful. Near the top of the xorg.conf file--as shown above-- the following text appears:
[INDENT]# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)[/INDENT]

... and if i do as i'm told, this is what comes up in the terminal:
[INDENT]#  /etc/X11/xorg.conf  (xorg X Window System server configuration
file) # # This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian  X  Con&#8208;
figuration  tool,  using # values from the debconf database.  # #
Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manu&#8208;
al  page.  # (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
# # This file is automatically updated  on  xserver&#8208;xorg  package
upgrades  *only* # if it has not been modified since the last up&#8208;
grade of the xserver&#8208;xorg # package.  # # If you have edited this
file  but  would like it to be automatically updated # again, run
the following command: #   sudo dpkg&#8208;reconfigure &#8208;phigh  xserver&#8208;
xorg

Section                   "Files"                           Font&#8208;
Path        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"                     Font&#8208;
Path        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"                 Font&#8208;
Path        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"         Font&#8208;
Path        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"          Font&#8208;
Path        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"                    Font&#8208;
Path        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"                   Font&#8208;
Path        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"                    Font&#8208;
Path        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"          # path to defoma
fonts               FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x&#8208;ttcidfont&#8208;
conf.d/dirs/TrueType" EndSection
 Manual page xorg.conf line 1
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by dr johnson on 2007-02-20
Bah! Only opensuse 10.2 deals properly with the screen resolution problem. It sucks to use opensuse, but there you go.

---

### Post by featherking on 2007-02-20
*EDIT* Do you have an nVidia card or an Intel card?? Your xorg file says you are using the intel driver in this line:
> Section "Device"
Identifier "Intel Corporation Mobile Integrated Graphics Controller"
Driver "i810"
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

But at the top of your post you say its an nVidia card? If you really have an nVidia card then your xorg is all screwed up because you are totally configured to use an intel card. But i cant imagine xorg actually running with an nVidia card thinking its and intel, so i suspect you actually have an intel card. To find out type this in terminal:

```
lspci | grep Intel
```

This lists all your intel hardware, look for a graphics adapter. My entry looks like this
```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
```

If indeed you are running intel graphics your output will be similar and you can follow my original advice below.. If you are running nVidia, you need to start over with your xorg

**Read above First**
If you are using the i810 driver (integrated intel graphics) so you need to install 915resolution package from synaptic or run this from the terminal
```
sudo apt-get install 915resolution
```

Its been so long i cant remember exactly what it asks you to do after installing, but it changes video modes in the bios and loads itself during every boot and gives you the proper resolution. Your Xorg file looks okay to me, so try installing this

After installing if nothing happens try running it from the terminal '915resolution'

---

### Post by Rinias on 2007-02-21
This one's a good one... I used to have the same screen resolution and it's a lot less fun working it out than you would first think. I confirm that SuSE handles it correctly and it's because they have made the effort to add in all the config's necessary to make it work.

First off, I am in total agreement that if you want t use your nVidia graphics driver, it is not very wise to load the intel one ;) But, even if you had loaded the nVidia one, I think you would still run into problems because you don't have any mode lines in your xorg.conf... Just entering 1280x800 in the Screen section doesn't actual do a thing, because in order to use a Mode ("1280x800" is a mode) this Mode needs to be defined. 

Here's a link to a HOWTO site for an HP with the same screen resolution : [http://www2.fuzzey.dynalias.net/tech/linuxOnHpZv5340EA.html](http://www2.fuzzey.dynalias.net/tech/linuxOnHpZv5340EA.html)

More specifically, scroll down to the Nvidia configuration part where the code for configuring the device is listed. There you'll see the "Modes" section and the parameters that go along with it.

Hope this helps and if you have any more questions, feel free to ask :)

Rinias

EDIT : In the very first link you gave - the Ubuntu changing screen resolution one, there is a section "Adding custom modeline" which is exactly what needs to be done before calling a "non-normal" mode like 1280x800... There's also a bunch of help there, so I would check it out ;)

---

### Post by dr johnson on 2007-02-21
**featherking,**
you said:
"i suspect you actually have an intel card. To find out type this in terminal: [etc]"

when I did as you suggested, I got this:
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

then I put this into the terminal:
"sudo apt-get install 915resolution",
... and got this:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package 915resolution

Did I do right? What can I do now? I'm very grateful for your help.

And thankyou Rinias too :-)
Since I am now reasonably sure that it's not an nvidia driver, I guess I'd better stick with featherking's suggestions, although I will take you up on the "Adding custom modeline" advice when I get some time.

Thanks very much.

---

### Post by featherking on 2007-02-21
Yeah most definately an intel card. Odd though that you dont have the 915resolution package in synaptic, i will post a copy for you. I think it is in the universe repositories, perhaps you dont have them enabled.. At any rate you can download this and install it the same

As i said before, i think it runs automatically after installing.. if not post back and we can go through it

---

### Post by dr johnson on 2007-02-22
featherking,
I got the reply (in red), "Error: Conflicts with the installed package '915 resolution'"
Very strange.

---

### Post by dr johnson on 2007-02-22
Ten minutes later...

Wow, great--I just restarted the 'puter, and everything is perfect now! Thanks featherking!
Check your pms.

---

### Post by Digital Spaghetti on 2007-02-26
Horray! Got it working for me too :)

---

### Post by Jforrer on 2007-03-04
Haha, yes! thanks a lot this worked for me too. I had the same problems and for some reason when I rebooted the resolution was fixed. Oh, by the way this is my first post and my first day as an Ubuntu user :D .

---

### Post by featherking on 2007-03-05
@Jforrer
Congratulations and welcome! this is one of the best communities i have been involved with and the forums are full of answers, good luck!

---

### Post by Downtown on 2007-03-05
@featherking

From the bottom of mine and my laptop's hearts, thank you for that help.  I was ready to throw something expensive against the wall if I couldn't get my WS resolution to work.  Thanks again.  The Ubuntu community at it's best.

---

### Post by featherking on 2007-03-06
@downtown
Congrats, i felt the same way when i couldnt ever get it working at first those many months ago!

---

### Post by paul-t20 on 2007-03-12
Hi Featherking,
I'm a complete Linux newbie with the 1280x800 problem on my Acer Aspire 3610.

Thanks for the 915resolution file - however I had a problem installing. The package installer returns the following error:

Error: Dependancy is not satisfiable: libc6

Any advice on this would be much appreciated!

---

### Post by Raein on 2007-03-13
hi i followed the guide but i only got 1240 x 768 :( is there anyway to fix it?

---

### Post by featherking on 2007-03-13
@paul-t20
you will have to open up synaptic and search for libc6 and install it from there, after that it should work

@Raein
not sure about that as i havent used 915resolution in so long. I know there is a howto somewhere in the forums about using 915resolution, perhaps they would know more, try doing a search for '915resolution' and see if it comes up

---

### Post by edublv on 2007-04-03
It works, 1280x800 is much better. Thanks.

---

### Post by Rinias on 2007-04-09
I just wanted to add that with Edgy and now with Feisty, I do my xconfig in the following way :

(Note : This is for a 1440x900 resolution with an Nvidia card- 1440x900 is a "strange" resolution just like "1280x800")

First, I am sure that I have the restricted modules like in all the guides, etc, and I install nvidia-glx.

Second I "Ctrl-Atl-F1" to get to the first console, where I login and execute
```
sudo dpkg-reconfgure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

This will bring up a ncurses dialog box (the ugly blue text graphics type dialog) where I need to do two things :

1- Choose the driver I want for the card
2- Choose the resolutions I want

For the driver I choose "nv" **not** "nvidia"*

Next I simply choose the resolutions I want and hit Enter.

The easiest way to get back to graphics from the console (with the new parameters) is to type :
```
 sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

(If you use Kubuntu it might be kdm instead of gdm and Xubuntu perhaps xdm instead of gdm)

This will show us if the resolution works correctly with the nv driver. To get my 3D graphics support I need to edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf (manually)

I find the part that says :
```
     Driver "nv"
```
and change it to:
```
     Driver "nvidia"
```

Then I can save the file (superuser permissions), "Ctrl-Alt-F1" again, hit the "up" arrow (for the last command typed, which was to restart gdm) and hit enter...

Voilà, that's about it ;)

Hope this helps someone out (it'd be nice to know if this method works directly for the 1280x800 resolution or for ATI cards using the OS driver and then the restricted one... )

Rinias

* For some reason, I have often had problems using the setup directly with the nvidia driver, whereas everything seems to work flawlessly with the nv driver setup and then switching just the driver. I have been on a "distro search" latley and have used this technique about 10 times in the last two weeks (for Debian based distros only)

---

### Post by dr johnson on 2007-04-20
update--7.04 feisty

for 7.04, i just tried the file that featherking recommended at post number 8 on this thread. It downloaded ok, but i got a message urging me to use some funky new file. Well, i installed the old one anyway, and voila it worked perfectly well once i restarted the computer (same computer btw, advent 7111), but immediately, i got an update come through. Guess what it was--a 915res file of some kind, of course; i duly downloaded it and it's all working perfectly without a hitch. Very smooth, i'm impressed.

Can anyone just supply a direct link to the 7.04 updated file? I'm sure that it's very naughty of me to systematically come by an updated file via an outdated one. Thanks for all your help, you ubuntu coders are doing such great work!

---

