---
title: "Excessive processor use - Dell Latitude D400"
date: 2007-11-26
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Bwosc on 2007-11-26
I bought a 2nd hand Dell Latitude D400 which is in a very good condition (used to be presentation model). It has 1.4 GHz Centrino, 512 RAM, 64 Shared Intel Graphics 855GM, 30 GB hard disk. My kernel is 2.6.22-14.

Though everything is working out of the box the processor is struggling with rendering webpages, OO.org pages, everything, Youtube videos are stuttering etc...  Ordinary video is working without any problems (at 800 MHz). Compiz too.

My girlfriends Toshiba M100 is 1.2 GHz Centrino with 512 Shared memory and is playing Youtube videos and rendering stuff without any problems, for example.

Why is this so? What could I do to make a better processor use?

---

### Post by Lutin on 2007-11-26
Hi

I installed Gutsy on my wife's D400 a short while ago and everything is working fine. I have no experience with Ubuntu prior to Fiesty so cannot comment on your installation.

But with Gutsy, none of the problems that you report.

regards

---

### Post by Bwosc on 2007-11-26
Could you show me your xorg.conf? I suspect I have problems with my graphics settings.

---

### Post by Lutin on 2007-11-26
Hi

Yes, that would be no problem - but it would need to be later today after I get home from work.

regards

---

### Post by Steve Fisher on 2007-11-26
I've got a Dell D505. I can relate to all those problems that you've described... with Compiz enabled. When I turn off all the fancyness, I find that this rather aged laptop actually works just fine.

---

### Post by Bwosc on 2007-11-26
Interesting, to me it feels a little faster than without Compiz...

I discovered that the "Files" section is empty in my xorg.conf. Did it become deprecated?

---

### Post by Lutin on 2007-11-26
Hi

Here, as promised, is the xorg.conf from my wife's D400. Hope that it is of some help.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"ie"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Option		"Buttons"		"5"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"on"
	Option		"InputFashion"		"Mouse"
#	Option		"Name"			"Synaptics;Touchpad"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"SHMConfig"		"on"
	Option		"Vendor"		"Sysp"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Just to ley you know, all the visual effects are switched off, ie Compiz.

regards

---

