---
title: "7.10 won't install on Sony PCG-SRX77"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by redchar03 on 2007-10-23
From the log, it appears that sda can not be accessed! 

/dev/sda1 No Such File!

From the log file in /proc, there is references that sda is the 60GB hard disk.

Fedora installed and works OK. 
The CDROM is a PCMCIA CDROM which on Fedora, use hdc=ide-scsi will get it installed. But it does not work on 7.10.

Has anyone tried this notebook with 7.10?

Many Thx!

---

### Post by GVaio on 2007-12-03
I am just starting out myself on this "new project".  Ubuntu 5.10-install ISO worked without a hitch.  When attempting 7.10-desktop I ran into problems.  After some research I found that my 256MB RAM is insufficient, 320MB seems required.  This lead me to a post that suggested the 7.10-alternate ISO.  Still no dice.  More research ... led to this post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3096602&postcount=1]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3096602&postcount=1") I used all three parameters suggested under **2) A)** after hitting F6.  And finally (!) the install worked ...  VERY VERY SLOW however.  ( I am using PCMCIA external CD-ROM PCGA-CD51/A. )  

Now ready to reboot for the first time after install ...

---

### Post by GVaio on 2007-12-06
[COLOR="Blue"]**_UPDATE:_**[/COLOR]

Did not work.  Upon rebooting, the system hangs. :mad:

Since then, over the past couple of days, I have made MANY attempts to get 7.10 to install as a fresh copy ... no success ](*,)  So ... I then opted to go _the MOST PAINFUL ROUTE_ :( ... figuring since 5.10 works, I did incremental updates (in some cases with alternate CD, otherwise direct via internet), sequentially all the way from 5.10 thru 6.06.1, 6.10, 7.04, and finally 7.10.  (This helped a lot: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes") ... but make sure you carefully read and follow each of the individual "Upgrade" notes mentioned there for each release upgrade.  I used "**Synaptic Package Manager**" or "**[COLOR="Blue"]cdromupgrade[/COLOR]**" each time.)

YEAH !! :guitar:  I now have a working system.  

Of course, there were a few bumps along the way, all of which I searched (and found (!)) solutions for on this forum (**[COLOR="Blue"]THANK YOU EVERYONE ![/COLOR]**)

1] The "[COLOR="Blue"]you passed an undefined mode number[/COLOR]" between grub and login;
2] The "[COLOR="Blue"]activating swap[/COLOR] [COLOR="Red"]failed[/COLOR]" during boot (reported in the usplash screen).

**_Helpful hint_**: where many users report on vga resolution to use ("[COLOR="Blue"]vga=791[/COLOR]") ... I found [COLOR="Blue"]vga=770[/COLOR] works well too.  (Take a look at [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VESA_BIOS_Extensions#Linux_video_mode_numbers]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VESA_BIOS_Extensions#Linux_video_mode_numbers") )  Some of those same posts recommend "**startup manager**" ... I used that, and it _**is**_ nice, but eventually I dumped it again, because it did not get rid of my "undefined mode number" problem, and I think it confuses the issue even more.  So instead I worked directly with "[COLOR="Green"]*/boot/grub/menu.lst*[/COLOR]" and "*[COLOR="Green"]/etc/usplash.conf[/COLOR]*".  HOWEVER, what eventually seems to work best for me is "[COLOR="Blue"]vga=normal[/COLOR]" (which is the default anyway, but it doesn't hurt to be explicit), and more specifically put this option _at the end of the line_ (in "[COLOR="Green"]*menu.lst*[/COLOR]") _that starts with_ "[COLOR="Blue"]# kopt=[/COLOR]".  Otherwise anything doing a "[COLOR="Blue"]**sudo update-grub**[/COLOR]" (which you should do manually after editing "[COLOR="Green"]*menu.lst*[/COLOR]"), for instance, package updates, would possibly negate any changes that you place directly on the "[COLOR="Blue"]kernel[/COLOR]" line in that file.  And my "[COLOR="Blue"]# defoptions[/COLOR]" simply reads "[COLOR="Blue"]# defoptions=splash[/COLOR]"

I hope this helps someone ...

BTW: Despite having only a PIII at 800MHz and 256MB RAM and a 4,200rpm HD, this 6 year old laptop boots (from power button to "login") in _**[COLOR="Red"]66 seconds[/COLOR]**_ !  And once the swap problem was fixed, even after login to the graphical UI, this machine runs well.  ( I have not yet customized anything.  And this is a GREAT learning experience ... )  The entire reboot cycle (System/Quit/Restart via shutdown back to login screen) takes 83 seconds ! :cool: 

:) G.

---

### Post by GVaio on 2007-12-07
_**[COLOR="Blue"]UPDATE:[/COLOR]**_
I just noticed that the "[COLOR="DarkOrange"]Activating swap..[/COLOR]   [COLOR="Red"]failed[/COLOR]" comes back each time I attempt to HIBERNATE the laptop.  And the attempt to hibernate does not work ... it ends up doing a powerdown (resulting is a cold boot instead of the expected resume).

---

