---
title: "HP dv9000"
date: 2006-10-27
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by velozoom on 2006-10-27
Hello, this is my first time here and boy do I need help!  ;)  

I am a Windoze Systems and Network Admin but am an absolute noob when it comes to Linux. I want to load Kubuntu 6.10 onto an HP dv9000.  It's one hell of a sexy laptop with a 2.0G AMD TUrion 64bit X2 processor, 1Gb RAM, and all the cool gizmos HP likes to put in there. 

I've installed 6.10 and am having the following problems so far-

1) I can't get the OS to enable the wireless card 
2) 70% of boots ups freeze at ~20% or 50% of the progress bar
3) I can't seem to find a driver for the display that will get me more than 1024x768....(this is a widescreen system with 1440x990 max)

Is there anything akin to the M$ device manager?  I can't even find an app to tell me what's installed or not on the system.  

While I realize this forum is certainly a great source of info, the info is not organized in a logical manner.  Therefore, I would ideally like to find a step by step intro to Linux/(K)Ubuntu tutorial(s) that will give me a good grounding in the basics- directory structures, file systems, applications, best policies, and, most importantly, a lot of 'how to's.  

I feel like a babe in the woods and would like to start finding the path out!  

Thanks for any and all suggestions.

---

### Post by ReaderRat on 2006-10-27
3.) Resolution (& Refresh Rate) - HOWTO Change
         [http://www.geocities.com/aebcoat/xorgresproblems.html?20069#Fix_low_resolutions](http://www.geocities.com/aebcoat/xorgresproblems.html?20069#Fix_low_resolutions)
This is probably for 6.10, but should work.
General Info (Dapper)
Ubuntu Chronicles Wiki
          [http://pykeylogger.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu:Chronicles](http://pykeylogger.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu:Chronicles)

---

### Post by velozoom on 2006-10-27
Thanks, I had actually found the controls to change screen resolution but anytime I change to anything other than generic it crashes the xserver and my screen goes fubar.   I have to reboot to see anything......

also, the second link seems broken, thanks!!!

---

### Post by joshw on 2006-12-04
> **velozoom said:**
> 
2) 70% of boots ups freeze at ~20% or 50% of the progress bar


...and the screen gets all funky, like a thousand-dollar lava lamp? Try adding "acpi=off" to the kernel's startup line in Grub.

---

### Post by chrup1 on 2007-01-09
I have the same laptop as you. It looks pretty cool, but once you start working with it, you will quickly learn that it ain't so.

The only Linux that I have every gotten to work with this is openSuSE 10.2 (Latest). At least, it's not freezing up any more.
The sound card simply doesn't work. I get sounds to appear from the machine, the microphone is dead though.
The WebCam doesn't have any driver support yet and neither do TV tuner, SD/MC/xD card reader or TV Tuner.
I also had a tough time using the (LightScribe) DVD burner - it completes the disc to 50-80% and then fails.
The only OS that works on this 64-bit baby is 32-bit Windoze XP. :-k. I put in a service request with HP to at least provide drivers for Windoze XP 64-bit, and they told me in November that they would have them ready 'next month' - that would have been December. I called them back this month, after no drivers appeared and again, I was assured that the release was imminent - our developers are validating the 64-bit drivers to make sure that there are no incompatibilities.
Today I was told by their level II support people: Nobody at HP is working on Windoze XP any more - they are all working on Vista. So ... why have I been lied to?

This is the last HP I'll ever buy...

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-01-09
I may just have two very good links that will help you
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hp_dv6000_series_%28dv6116eu%29]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hp_dv6000_series_%28dv6116eu%29")
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Broadcom_BCM4311_rev_01_%28ndiswrapper%29?action=show]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Broadcom_BCM4311_rev_01_%28ndiswrapper%29?action=show")

---

