---
title: "Geforce go 7600 blank screnn"
date: 2007-04-21
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by fcbunn on 2007-04-21
Hi there, this is my first message in this forum.
I've installed Ubuntu 7.04 in my laptop, and when i install the nvidia-glx, and reboot the system, a black blank screen appears. I hear the sounds and everything, but no image at all =(
My laptop is a HP DV8333, with a Geforce Go 7600!
I'm starting to think that this GPU is OEM modified =((
Anyone have any idea?!

This is my Xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder3) Thu Nov 9 17:55:20 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen" 0 0
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

# path to defoma fonts
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "i2c"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
Option "XkbVariant" "alt-intl"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "stylus"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "eraser"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "cursor"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
HorizSync 28.0 - 72.0
VertRefresh 43.0 - 60.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce Go 7600]"
Driver "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce Go 7600]"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 16
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1440x900"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1440x900"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1440x900"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1440x900"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1440x900"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1440x900"
EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by slogan on 2007-04-22
I'm afraid I don't have an answer for you, but I can provide details of another setup with precisely the same problem - black screen but sound works fine. I have an Acer Aspire 5652WLMi notebook, which uses the nVidia Geforce Go 7600 like yours.

I managed to start the Feisty Live CD by selecting 1024x768 as the resolution at the boot menu as just leaving it to boot with the default options resulted in the black screen problem. With 1024x768 selected, it loaded fine (albeit at the notebook's native resolution of 1280x800, which is interesting) and even desktop effects worked a treat.

After reboot I get a black screen like you do. As this appears to be precisely the same problem that happens when booting from the Live CD without specifying 1024x768 as the resolution, I'm currently trying to figure out how to make the installed version of Ubuntu automatically do whatever is done when selecting the resolution from the Live CD.

Have you got any further? 

E

---

### Post by eyelessfade on 2007-04-22
Try the nvidia-glx-new package. I think your graphic card is new enough to be supported there

---

### Post by slogan on 2007-04-22
I've tried booting to recovery mode and then:

apt-get install nvidia-glx-new

The package downloads OK but after reboot the symptoms are the same. Very odd; the only way I can boot Ubuntu happily is to run the Live CD and select 1024x768x32. Most wierd. Various attempts with xorg.conf editing have not yet succeeded either.

---

### Post by slogan on 2007-04-22
Fixed it! The solution was indeed to install the nvidia-glx-new package, but also mess with xorg.conf so that the system knew which of the many output ports on the 7600 Go to use.

Try this:

- Boot into recovery mode from GRUB
- Type:
[FONT="Courier New"]sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new[/FONT]

- After the download and installation:
[FONT="Courier New"]sudo vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT]

- Look for the line in the Device section that looks like this:
[FONT="Courier New"]Driver "nv"[/FONT]

- Change it so that it looks like this:
[FONT="Courier New"]Driver "nvidia"[/FONT]

- Now look for the Screen section.  Add the following line in after Defaultdepth:
[FONT="Courier New"]Option "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP"[/FONT]

At this point, a reboot of the system should result in a usable system. However, if you turn on desktop effects, you may find that your window decorations (title bars, minimize buttons etc) disappear. The instructions [here]("http://wiki.beryl-project.org/wiki/Install_Beryl_on_Ubuntu_Feisty_with_nVidia") fix the problem, for my set up at least.

Hope the above works for you as it did for me.

E

---

