---
title: "Connecting to a Printer Via Network &gt; USB"
date: 2008-03-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by jayashleysmith on 2008-03-05
I have a Brother DCP-310CN connected to a server via USB which is working fine! The printer is also Ethernet and can be plugged directly into the router, but could not get this to work in ubuntu, so have given up on that idea. I have 3 laptop running ubuntu which i want to be able to use with the printer which is connected to the server via usb. I want to use it over the wireless network we have, I know in windows you can just share out a printer and do it like that. but cant seem to get it to work in ubuntu.

I have tried everything, but i have a little experience of Linux but not with printers etc.

Any Help Would be great!  Either to use the USB connection or Ethernet! 

Thanks JAS

:popcorn:

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2008-03-05
If the printer is set up and working as you say, make sure it is set up for sharing on the server. And then you can go to the printer set up utility in Ubunty and set it up on EACH laptop.  You will have to have the name you gave the printer and the URI generated by the server to plug into the addy box in the utility, but that SHOULD get it if your printer is set up properly.  MAKE DOUBLY SURE that there are no typos in the setup box as you will pull your hair out trying to figure out what is wrong when it fails .. BTDTGTS!!

---

### Post by jayashleysmith on 2008-03-13
Ok thanks will try and let you know

---

### Post by jayashleysmith on 2008-03-19
Ok i seem to have enough problem now :confused: I have my printer connected to a USB prot i can see by typing lsusb. But if i use the GUI to go to add printer it does not allow me to select Local printer. So i cant even get it working on the local machine.

Any help to even get it working on my local machine would be a great step forward. I seem to be taking one step forward and 2 backwards. 

I am using Kubuntu also.

Thanks 

JAS

---

### Post by jayashleysmith on 2008-03-20
Ok i seem to have them all working now. All fine No problems.

---

