---
title: "third hdd is found only after reboot"
date: 2007-10-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by min.tam on 2007-10-05
Hi there,

I have a PC with asus K8V-X motherboard (VIA K8T800 chipset with VIA8237 SATA RAID controller) and three hard disks:
(hda) IDE disk Maxtor 6Y060L0 with /boot/ and other OS .
(sda) SATA disk ATA SAMSUNG SP1614C with / and swap.
(sdb) another SATA disk ATA WDC WD1200BEVS-7 for other stuff (one large fat32 partition).
(hdb) IDE CDRW/DVD combo, if that matters.

When I turn my PC on, everything is fine, but ubuntu finds only two disks - I can't see the third disk (sdb). After reboot ubuntu detects all disks just fine.

Other OS detects all disks without need to restart, so it's probably not a hardware problem.

What can I do to see all my disks in Ubuntu right after the boot-up? Why there is a difference between power-up and reboot?

---

### Post by HokeyFry on 2007-10-05
what does ```
cat /etc/fstab
``` return

---

### Post by min.tam on 2007-10-05
$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=600347ce-b709-4f55-9483-48eae69d6078 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=69ff2b18-6508-4387-82ca-7e60466a0b2e /boot ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=B6F87B61F87B1EB5 /media/hda2 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=C440D88640D8809A /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=9d394ca1-0286-42df-8cd9-d9a0e1cd484e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by HokeyFry on 2007-10-05
which is the disk that you are having trouble with specifically

---

### Post by min.tam on 2007-10-05
The problem is with:

# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=C440D88640D8809A /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1

$ sudo mount /media/sdb1/
Password:
Failed to access '/dev/disk/by-uuid/C440D88640D8809A': No such file or directory

When I turn power on, there are no entries about sdb in dmesg - kernel does not detect it. But everything is fine after reboot.

---

### Post by HokeyFry on 2007-10-05
backup your /etc/fstab, then replace the line under the UNKNOWN DEVICE line with

```
/media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
```

mount it again and see if that changes anything, i had a similar issue with the UUID thing. found it best to get rid of it

---

### Post by min.tam on 2007-10-05
/media/sdb1 is the mount point, actual device should be /dev/sdb1. 
Kernel detects my disk and creates this device only during the warm boot (reboot). On cold boot (power-on) kernel does not detect my disk - device /dev/sdb1 does not exists.

I'm uploading dmsg output - it differs on cold boot and reboot.

What can I do to get my disk detected without reboot?

---

### Post by HokeyFry on 2007-10-05
honestly im not really much of an expert with this type of thing, so im not sure what may have caused this. i had the same issue that you had though with all of my partitions at once, and removing the UUID bit worked for me.


ill do some research on the problem but no promises, sorry

---

### Post by min.tam on 2007-10-06
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/149741](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/149741) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				HokeyFry, thanks for sharing Your experience, however my problem is a bit different. 
Filled bug report on launchpad.

---

