---
title: "Getting 3D from Radeon 9800 pro, after drive install"
date: 2005-09-10
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by grimdeath on 2005-09-10
Ok i finally managed to get the drivers installed and working tonight, version 8.14(theres a newer version out now....bah! :P)

anyways ive tried this:
grimdeath@grim:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.2.1)

i know that should read with specifics relating to my ATI card but im not sure how to "switch" from the mesa setup to my ati card....if anyone could point me in the right direction id be thrilled, thanks!

---

### Post by evilghost on 2005-09-10
What's your /etc/X11/xorg.conf look like, did you modify it to use the fglrx driver?

Here's are key snippets from xorg.conf when I was running a 9800 PRO.

```

Section "Module"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "dbe"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "record"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 Pro (R350 NH)"
        #Driver         "ati"
        Driver          "fglrx"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "NoDCC"
        Option          "VideoOverlay"  "on"
        Option          "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
        Option          "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
        VideoRam        131072
EndSection

```

---

### Post by grimdeath on 2005-09-10
mines the same except for this:

        Option          "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
        Option          "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
        VideoRam        131072

i saw this, should i try to do this howto?
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557&highlight=ati+drivers+0.2](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557&highlight=ati+drivers+0.2)

*update* i ran thru that howto, seem to do alot of what you had listed BUT, still no 3d render or fglrxinfo listing my videocard, this is my xorg.conf file:

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
	# Load "extmod" but omit DGA extension - this must be included as is if you want to change resolution on the fly
  	SubSection "extmod"
    	    Option "omit xfree86-dga"
  	EndSubSection
	Load 	"GLcore"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 Pro (R350 NH)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
# If X refuses to use the screen resolution you asked for,
# uncomment this; see "Bugs and Workarounds" for details.
  #Option "NoDDC"

# === Video Overlay for the Xv extension ===
  	Option 		"VideoOverlay" 		"on"

# === OpenGL Overlay ===
# Note: When OpenGL Overlay is enabled, Video Overlay
#       will be disabled automatically
  	Option 		"OpenGLOverlay" 	"off"

# === Use internal AGP GART support? ===
# If OpenGL acceleration doesn't work, try using "yes" here
# and disable the kernel agpgart driver.
  	Option 		"UseInternalAGPGART" 	"no"

# You don't actually need this next BusID bit - unless maybe you have dual monitors?
# I've removed it from mine (single monitor only) and all is well.
# I think it's a leftover from fxglrconfig - doh!
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 Pro (R350 NH)"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by evilghost on 2005-09-10
Why are you loading GLCore, the MESA GL stuff?  You may want to look at my xorg.conf again, more specifically the modules section.  That's your problem I believe:

**Load "GLcore"** needs to be removed.

---

### Post by grimdeath on 2005-09-10
removed it, restarted X, same thing listed in fglrxinfo about mesa :/ maybe the drivers arnet installed correctly? i installed them using this method(as it was the only to work):
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32495&highlight=default+video](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32495&highlight=default+video) perhaps i have to configure my xorg.conf file differntly because of using that method?

---

### Post by grimdeath on 2005-09-11
bump :)

---

### Post by Granji on 2005-09-12
Wow, ati guys go through alot of hoops to get their drivers to work, I've only found one surefire way, after going through days of xorg.conf mods, and rebots, and GUI breaks, and all my work, was solved by a simple removal of some previous fglrx packages using synaptics search option, and complete removal, and then installing a  debian package, [The full thread can be viewed here](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=64286)  it's quite easy once you get it done.

---

