---
title: "6.06 LTS Freezes on Boot"
date: 2007-09-24
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by cmnorton on 2007-09-24
This post is to ask advice about how to get diagnostic information, not necessarily about the problem itself. 

I have an Acer TravelMate 630. It has 750 MB RAM in it. Occaisionally, the boot will freeze either at the restricted drives or hardware drivers phase. The only consistent thing I can say about this is it usually happens if I don't wait a few seconds after connecting the laptop to power, either directly through the power cord, or to the docking station, which to which the power cord is connected.

The workaround is solid. I power off, wait a few seconds, and power back on. The boot always completes after that, and the boot appears not to be requiring an fsck.

Here is my question:  if I wanted to post the output from this problem to ask for more help in diagnosing the problem, would I go look into kern.log on the next reboot to find the information that dmesg would have printed if the first boot had completed? If not, what would be a good way of finding information that would lead me to why the first boot did not completed?

Thanks.
cmn

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-09-24
You may not find any info in the log files.  Sounds like a power-conditioning problem.  Boot-up can cause a power-surge as all the of hardware subsystems wake up.  It's possible that you have a themal relay on your motherboard (or the power brick) that gets tripped.  It will reset itself as it cools.  As powerbricks age, this can become a more common problem.  Sometimes the battery has a weak cell which causes lower internal battery resistance and acts like a short when first plugging in the charger.

Try removing the battery and see if the behavior changes.  This assumes that your laptop will boot without a battery.  Some will, some won't.

To narrow it down, you will need to find another powerbrick and see if the behavior changes.  If you can find another battery (borrow one for buy a spare) then see if the behavior changes.

Since it is a boot problem, you can also work around it by going into standby instead of power-off.  This won't help a dual-boot configuration.  I have an old Dell Inspiron that I leave in standby all the time so I only need to reboot once every few months.

---

