---
title: "Enable Widescreen on Acer TravelMate 4101"
date: 2006-09-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by ramjet_1953 on 2006-09-20
I thought that might be useful to anyone who like me, has an Acer 4101 laptop and is having problems getting the 16:9 aspect ratio working.

Over the past 2 weeks I have tried all sorts of exotic things, including trying to force the BIOS, to no avail.

However the answer was so simple that I overlooked it.

All that is required is to run 915resolution -l and pick a resolution that you will never need. I chose 3c

I then typed in: sudo 915resolution 3c 1280 800 24

I then modified the /etc/default/915resolution file to suit. ie

Mode 3c
XRESO=1280
YRESO=800
BIT=24

I then edited the /etc/x11/xorge.conf file by removing every other screen resolution and modifying one to 1280x800 24 bit.

When I re-started X the 120x800 @ 24 bit option was available in the System/Preferences/Screen Resolution menu.

It worked immediately and now circles are round and not elipses.
Another benefit is that it also fixed some really ugly font problems that I was having with GNUCash and Audacity.

The full story of this epic is in Absolute Beginner Talk under the heading of Aspect Ratio on Acer 4101 Widescreen.

Please see below my xorg.conf file.


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option	"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Regards,
Roger :D

---

### Post by bluefuse on 2006-09-20
How to enable Large Widescreen Support

    * 24/23" widescreen monitors sometimes have issues running 1920x1200.
    * Examples include: Dell 2405, HP 2335 or an Apple Cinema Display. 

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

    * Add the following line to the appropriate "Monitor" section 

Modeline	"1920x1200" 154 1920 1968 2000 2080 1200 1203 1209 1235

    * For example the HP2335 should now look like: 

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"hp L2335"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline	"1920x1200" 154 1920 1968 2000 2080 1200 1203 1209 1235
EndSection

---

