---
title: "keyboard.c: can't emulate rawmode for keycode 242"
date: 2005-05-01
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Sarojin on 2005-05-01
I'm trying to set up the multimedia keys on my Benq X700 USB multimedia keyboard, and have been successful with around half of them by viewing the X events generated by keystrokes using xev, however many of the extra keys do not generate any X events and instead provoke notices in dmesg like
keyboard.c: can't emulate rawmode for keycode 250

If I try to rebind them using xmodmap, nothing happens.

I've been able to rebind these keys in the Linux console using loadkeys and setkeycodes,  but before doing that nothing is shown using `showkeys`, and still there is no effect in X.

No error messages are generated in dmesg from keypresses in the console - only in X.

I hooked the keyboard up to my PS/2 port and found many lines similar to this in dmesg:
atkbd.c: Unknown key pressed (translated set 2, code 0xf5 on isa0060/serio0).
atkbd.c: Use 'setkeycodes e075 <keycode>' to make it known.

After I jumped to a console and ran, say, `sudo setkeycodes e075 242`, pressing the key that generated the scancode would give the message:
keyboard.c: can't emulate rawmode for keycode 242.

This is on Hoary/i386.

What I can do to expose these keys to X?

---

### Post by Sarojin on 2005-05-27
Update:
The keyboard exports 2 USB interfaces.  The keys that I can't access are on /dev/input/event3 (I can see junk scrolling by from it when I use those keys) while the other keys are on /dev/input/event2.  Should I try adding another device to my xorg.conf for it?

---

### Post by Sarojin on 2005-05-29
OK, I got it.
I can use evrouter from
[http://www.bedroomlan.org/~alexios/coding_evrouter.html](http://www.bedroomlan.org/~alexios/coding_evrouter.html)
to map /dev/input/event* events to X11 events and then do whatever I want with them.  I have to run it as root, but it's better than nothing.

Edit, here's my evrouter config file for mapping the keyboard wheel to a mouse wheel (my trackball has no wheel)
"Darfon USB Combo Keyboard" "" any key/241 "XButton/4"
"Darfon USB Combo Keyboard" "" any key/242 "XButton/5"

I tossed the following in my /etc/X11/xdm/Xstartup file.  This is executed every time I log in, as root.
killall evrouter
evrouter -c /etc/evrouter.conf /dev/input/event*
I would prefer to execute this every time X starts, as root.  What file would I put the latter command in for that?

---

### Post by gold4tune on 2005-09-11
Have you find the solution???  I'm new to linux and i have the same keyboard as you...  I found the seting "Microsoft internet keybord" (into the keybord layout of the kde) work well, but i can't use all the key.  If you have the solution, or if i can help you to finis your solution, tell me.  thx.

---

