---
title: "evtouch driver and right click"
date: 2008-03-03
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by cowbean on 2008-03-03
I've installed Gutsy on a Fujitsu P1620, and most things are going swimmingly.

(Note the touchscreen went from a serial device in the P1610 to a usb device in the P1620, so I couldn't use the perl-script driver by Sam Engstrom.)

I've got the touch screen working with the evtouch driver from the repos.  However, no matter what I try, I cannot execute a right-click, either with the default short-tap+long-tap, or by changing the xorg.conf settings and setting "longtouched" actions and "button 3 down".

Interestingly, when I change the settings in xorg.conf, Xorg.log.0 actually shows the driver picking up the changes: the S_LONGTOUCHED action and button correctly show "down" and "Button: 3".

Ready for more spookiness?  I removed the driver, got the source, and changed the default values for the actions in the code, so that all actions would just give me right clicks.  I compiled this modified driver and got it loaded... still no right click!

Is something else going on here that I'm missing?

---

### Post by zeigerpuppy on 2008-03-08
I have also installed gutsy on a p1620, as you say, everything apart from the touch screen looks like it's working fine.
I hope I can help with debugging this issue and have a fairly good understanding of linux essentials (not to the level of rewriting drivers!) but...
at the moment, I'm not even as getting cursor control, was hoping you may be able to give me a tip on how to get it going...

I tried installing evtouch from the repositories and edited the xorg.conf as described in 
[http://www.cartft.com/support/drivers/TFT/Linux_HowTo](http://www.cartft.com/support/drivers/TFT/Linux_HowTo)

However, no touch input as yet and calibration failed with the error
"can't find /empty_cursor.xbm"

here's some output:


cat /proc/bus/input/devices

I: Bus=0019 Vendor=1734 Product=0001 Version=0101
N: Name="Fujitsu Siemens Application Panel Driver for T-Series Lifebooks"
P: Phys=fsc/input0
S: Sysfs=/class/input/input5
U: Uniq=
H: Handlers=kbd event5
B: EV=100033
B: KEY=10000 0 0 0 0 0 0 30003 0 60000 2000800 0 0 0 0
B: MSC=0
B: SW=2

lsmod | grep evdev
evdev                  11136  7

xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
InputDevices "/dev/input/event5"      #added to handle touch screen
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"                   #touchscreen
    Identifier "touchscreen"
    Driver "evtouch"
    Option "Device" "/dev/input/event5"
    Option "DeviceName" "touchscreen"
    #########################################
    # ein guter Anfang, wird später editiert:
    #########################################
    Option        "MinX"        "0"
    Option        "MinY"        "0"
    Option        "MaxX"        "1024"
    Option        "MaxY"        "768"
    #########################################
    Option "ReportingMode" "Raw"
    Option "Emulate3Buttons"
    Option "Emulate3Timeout" "50"
    Option "SendCoreEvents"
    Option "Calibrate"  "1"             # wird nur zur Kalibrierung gebraucht!
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice  	"touchscreen" "CorePointer"      #Zeile hinzufügen

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by cowbean on 2008-03-08
The /dev/input/event* assignment doesn't seem to stick, i.e., it can be assigned to any one of the available slots, so you'll want to change the settings in /etc/udev/rules.d/ to always symlink a particular device to a device file.  The evtouch driver page says version 0.8.4 has a setting that works, so you might give that a try.  I had already rolled my own at that point, here it is:

/etc/udev/rules.d/40-permissions.rules
```

SUBSYSTEM=="input", KERNEL=="event*", ATTRS{name}=="Fujitsu Component USB Touch Panel", MODE="0666", SYMLINK+="input/touchscreen"

```

(read the udev man page if you're curious what that does.)

That corresponds to the following section in my xorg.conf:

xorg.conf
```

Section "InputDevice"
   Identifier  "touchscreen"
   Driver      "evtouch"
   Option      "Device" "/dev/input/touchscreen"
   Option      "DeviceName"   "touchscreen"
        Option        "MinX"        "418"
        Option        "MinY"        "1350"
        Option        "MaxX"        "15667"
        Option        "MaxY"        "15952"
        Option        "x0"        "-5"
        Option        "y0"        "-3"
        Option        "x1"        "-7"
        Option        "y1"        "-3"
        Option        "x2"        "0"
        Option        "y2"        "-1"
        Option        "x3"        "-6"
        Option        "y3"        "-1"
        Option        "x4"        "-7"
        Option        "y4"        "-2"
        Option        "x5"        "0"
        Option        "y5"        "-4"
        Option        "x6"        "-4"
        Option        "y6"        "1"
        Option        "x7"        "-6"
        Option        "y7"        "0"
        Option        "x8"        "-3"
        Option        "y8"        "-2"
   Option      "TapTimer"  "0"
   Option      "LongTouchTimer"  "250"
   Option      "ReportingMode"   "Raw"
#  Option      "Emulate3Buttons"
#  Option      "Emulate3Timeout" "50"
   Option      "SendCoreEvents"  "On"
#  Option      "maybetapped_action" "click"
#  Option      "maybetapped_button" "3"
#  Option      "longtouched_action" "click"
#  Option      "longtouched_button" "3"
#  Option      "ButtonNumber" "4"
#  Option      "Calibrate" "1"
EndSection

```

To get calibration working, you'll notice that the error message says it can't find /emtpy_cursor.xbm.  This is a file that was included in the evtouch package from the repos, but the calibration utility is looking for it in /, so move it there.  you can locate it with

```

# locate empty_cursor.xbm

```

To see if the module. is being loaded, you can check /var/log/Xorg.0.log, and look for "evtouch".

---

### Post by bombcar on 2008-04-17
I have the opposite problem - I want to disable everything but single normal click. Any ideas on how to do that?

Also, how do you calibrate the display and get those settings?

```
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "touchscreen"
        Driver          "evtouch"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/by-id/usb-Nextwindow_Touchscreen-event-joystick"
        Option          "DeviceName"    "touchscreen"
        Option          "MinX"  "1"
        Option          "MinY"  "1"
        Option          "MaxX"  "32768"
        Option          "MaxY"  "32768"
        Option          "ReportingMode" "Raw"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "false"
        Option          "Emulate3Timeout"       "50"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "On"
        #Option         "Calibrate"     "1"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by cowbean on 2008-04-17
> **bombcar said:**
> I have the opposite problem - I want to disable everything but single normal click. Any ideas on how to do that?

Also, how do you calibrate the display and get those settings?

```
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "touchscreen"
        Driver          "evtouch"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/by-id/usb-Nextwindow_Touchscreen-event-joystick"
        Option          "DeviceName"    "touchscreen"
        Option          "MinX"  "1"
        Option          "MinY"  "1"
        Option          "MaxX"  "32768"
        Option          "MaxY"  "32768"
        Option          "ReportingMode" "Raw"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "false"
        Option          "Emulate3Timeout"       "50"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "On"
        #Option         "Calibrate"     "1"
EndSection

```

So you're saying you are able to get right and middle mouseclicks on the touchscreen?  If so, might I ask how you went about setting up your touchscreen in the first place?

I'm not sure how to disable those other clicks, because I haven't gotten them to work yet.  :)  But to calibrate (and this is from memory, so pardon if the details are fuzzy):

- install the evtouch driver from the repos
- find ev_calibrate (mine was in /usr/lib/xf86-input-evtouch/ev_calibrate), copy it to your root directory (/).  
- then kill X (hit ctrl-alt-F1, log in, and do "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop".) 
- find calibrate.sh (mine was in /usr/lib/xf86-input-evtouch/calibrate.sh), and run that as root (sudo calibrate.sh)
- follow the on-screen instructions.

---

### Post by bombcar on 2008-04-17
To be honest, I'm using a different touch panel (the NextWindow touchscreen) - and that config above gives me a right click if I click and hold. I tried running the calibrate.sh and it didn't seem to run for me, but I'll try again with your instructions; thanks!

---

### Post by JD82 on 2008-04-22
Hi,
I have a P1620 too. I have installed Hardy Heron few days ago.
Apparently everything seems working out of the box, except touchscreen and wifi (the VGA works with the i810 driver and the Fingerprinter Reader with fprint).
The wifi problems are caused by the transition from ipw3945 to iwl3945. The reports on launchpad are many, I hope we are going to find a solution soon.

About the touchscreen I have not found anything, except this thread and this bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/205293](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/205293).

I would like to know if the BIOS option "Tablet Panel setting" should be set in "Tablet" or "Touchscreen".

With the value Tablet, Windows XP works fine, but Ubuntu does not detect the touchscreen input device:
```
jd@p1620:~$ cat /proc/bus/input/devices |grep N:

N: Name="Macintosh mouse button emulation"
N: Name="AT Translated Set 2 keyboard"
N: Name="Power Button (FF)"
N: Name="Lid Switch"
N: Name="Power Button (CM)"
N: Name="Sleep Button (CM)"
N: Name="fsc tablet buttons"
N: Name="Video Bus"
N: Name="PC Speaker"
N: Name="DualPoint Stick"
N: Name="AlpsPS/2 ALPS DualPoint TouchPad"

```

In "Touch Screen" mode the calibration, the right button and double-click of the pen don't work in WinXP.
Ubuntu detected a new input device:
```

jd@p1620:~$ cat /proc/bus/input/devices |grep N:
N: Name="Macintosh mouse button emulation"
N: Name="AT Translated Set 2 keyboard"
N: Name="Power Button (FF)"
N: Name="Lid Switch"
N: Name="Power Button (CM)"
N: Name="Sleep Button (CM)"
N: Name="fsc tablet buttons"
N: Name="Video Bus"
**N: Name="Fujitsu Component USB Touch Panel"**
N: Name="PC Speaker"
N: Name="DualPoint Stick"
N: Name="AlpsPS/2 ALPS DualPoint TouchPad" 

```

The touchscreen works out of the box, but i didn't find a way to calibrate it.

With this BIOS setting the touchscreen works WITHOUT xserver-xorg-input-evtouch driver and without any changes to xorg.conf:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"it"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"i810"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```

Someone was able to properly configure the touch screen in Hardy?

---

### Post by cowbean on 2008-04-22
That is indeed very interesting.  I think I have my BIOS set to "touchscreen".  I'm pretty sure that if I don't set up xorg.conf to load the evtouch driver, the touchscreen remains deactivated.  It could be that Hardy has touchscreen support built in.

When you says it works out of the box with no changes to xorg.conf / evtouch driver, are you able to perform right click actions too?

As for calibration, I'm guessing / hoping that however the default touchscreen driver is implemented in Hardy, also provides a way to calibrate.

I'll probably hold off on upgrading till a fix is found for the wifi issue.  Thanks for the heads up!

---

### Post by JD82 on 2008-04-22
The right click doesn't work ant the double click is very hard to do.
I forgot to say if you install and configure the evtouch the touch screen doesn't work!
Restoring the original xorg.conf (quoted above) works again. But always without calibration.

---

### Post by zeigerpuppy on 2008-05-03
Just to summarise, the following worked for getting the touchscreen going:

BIOS: set to "touchscreen" rather than "tablet"
Devices: assign "USB Touchscreen" to /dev/input/touchscreen as above
xorg.conf: edit using cowbeasn's settings (this calibrated perfectly for me)

So, now that my touchscreen is working, let's see if I can muck around and help find a solution for the right click.

---

### Post by JD82 on 2008-05-03
Does it work in Hardy Heron?

---

### Post by te.ss on 2008-07-20
Hi, 

Did you have any luck with calibration?  I also have a P1620 with Hardy installed.

---

### Post by JD82 on 2008-07-21
Look here (Touchscreen Section): [http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Hardware/Notebook/FujitsuSiemensLifeBookP1620](http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Hardware/Notebook/FujitsuSiemensLifeBookP1620)

---

