---
title: "5.10 KVM USB to PS/2 Mouse Problems"
date: 2006-04-07
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by flatline on 2006-04-07
Ok, so I just installed Breezy.  First-time with Linux.  I tried searching the forums, but everything seems to be referring to Hoary or Warty, and the fixes listed did not work for me.  Here is my issue:  

[LIST]
[*]I just got the new 2-port PS/2 KVM "Flip" from Belkin.  If it matters, one end is my girlfriend's XP box, the other is my Ubuntu box.  

[*]I'm using the USB mouse that came with the XP box with a USB-to-PS/2 converter.  

[*]Whenever I switch to Ubuntu, the pointer goes bananas, randomly moving and clicking all the buttons whenever I move the mouse at all.  If I unplug the mouse and plug it back into the KVM switch, after a second it recognizes it and all is well until the next time I try to switch.
[/LIST]
Searching the forums, I tried a fix from 4.10, by adding a file to /etc/modprobe.d that included the line: **options psmouse proto=imps**.

Another thread in the forums from 5.04 suggested I modify /etc/modules to include the line **psmouse prot=exps**.

Neither of these solutions fixed my problem.  I understand this may be a kernel thing, or it may be an issue with using the USB-to-PS/2 mouse in a KVM switch.  Whatever it is, it's driving me up a wall.  Does anyone out there have any prognosis on this?  Will getting a USB keyboard and a USB KVM switch save me?

Thanks in advance,

Matt

---

### Post by flatline on 2006-04-09
/bump

Anyone?  I would think a lot of people are in my position of using a KVM switch, and I am hoping there is a workaround that doesn't involve me constantly unplugging my mouse.

---

### Post by Astinsan on 2008-02-08
If you figure it out let me know.. The way I solved it was I purchased a keyboar and mouse ps2 to usb cable. Seems that ps2 doesn't support hot plugging. I have tried many mouses and 2 different kvms to get it to work without the conversion cable.

---

