---
title: "HELP!! ( Resolution Problem )"
date: 2008-03-26
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Chris From California on 2008-03-26
Alright guys I'm just about ready to snap this laptop in half. 

OK So the laptop is an Alienware M5500. It has 2 video cards in it. One is a Ge Force 6600GO and the other is an on board Intel. 

If I start the live CD with the nvidia card turned on I get nothing but sounds. No picture. 

So I opted to install using the on board Intel which is fine by me because it use's much less power.


My LCD should be 1280x800. ( Native ) At first there was no resolution higher than 1024x768. But I was able to get the other resolutions showing.


The problem that I have now, is that if I change the resolution from 1024x768 to 1280x800 the screen dies and goes blank. I tried to press CTRL - ALT F1 but then all I get is a shell that's all fuzzy. Almost as if it's the wrong resolution. But its not. 

If I press CTRL ALT Backspace, everything comes back fine with no problems. 

CAN SOME PLEASE HELP ME WITH THIS - I REALLY REALLY don't want to go back to windows Thanks So Much for any help. 

note: I'm not new to computer but I am new to Linux. :) Lamens Terms Are Welcome

---

### Post by Lieter on 2008-03-26
Hi chris,

First of all welcome :).
As for your problem:
Don't believe me 100% about this, but i think that a custom written xorg.conf can fix this, at least for your desktop environment., consoles perhaps later(other technique).
Can you paste the contents of the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf here so we can take a look at it and modify is if needed.

cheers

---

### Post by Chris From California on 2008-03-26
I have a few xconfig files but this looks to be the main one 


(xorg.conf ) 

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"VE155"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"VE155"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by Lieter on 2008-03-26
ok, and you want to use the nvidia i believe..

can you post contents of the file that is created by the following command(its called testrecords):
```
lspci | grep -i nvidia > testrecords
```

---

### Post by Chris From California on 2008-03-26
Lieter  

THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP!

I figured it out! and UBUNTU LOOKS SOOOO SWEETT!

Although I would like to use the Nvidia card, for now I'm going to use the on board. It's better on battery life. 

Ubuntu actually did all the work. I was checking on the model number that was in the config file and I realized that wasn't my laptop monitor. I had my secondary monitor plugged in and Ubunut was getting confused. So I unplugged it, did a reset and all is well!!!


I'm sure I'll be back here in the future with more questions. Sorry if I wasted your time! :D

---

### Post by Lieter on 2008-03-26
no problem :)

try to fiddle around with the PCI BUS id from the Nvidia and the server section in a new xorg.conf and make a second xorg.conf  to test the nvidia :) 

good luck, and no, you have not wasted my time. If i had 2 videocards i would know where to look now :):guitar:

---

