---
title: "5.04 Support for Logitech Quickcam Pro 4000"
date: 2005-03-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by mac57 on 2005-03-11
I have just downloaded and tried out the 5.04 live CD. When I plugged in my Logitech Quickcam Pro 4000, supported by the pwc driver, it showed up nicely in lsusb. However, Gnomemeeting won't use it, claiming every time that it has an error opening /dev/video0. I checked permissions and they look right - I checked dmesg and it shows lots of activity - when it is all said and done though, I can't get Gnomemeeting to show a picture from my webcam. Since this is the Live CD, I clearly haven't messed with anything - this is Ubuntu just the way the developers intended! Can someone point me at how to correct this problem? If I can get over this one, Ubuntu looks really interesting - picked up ALL my other hardware flawlessly, and that is always the hardest item in any distro. Thanks.

---

### Post by Balle-Larsen on 2005-03-23
I have not used the liveCD but I would assume that it is pretty much the same as the preview Hoary cd. I have had the the similar problem with webcams and gnomemeeting.
Using
mplayer tv:// -tv driver=v4l:width=352:height=288:outfmt=yv12:device=/dev/video0
works and so does camstreams
I noticed that only v4l2 was selectable in gnomemeeting as plugin.
After installing the libpt-plugins-v4l package gnomemeeting found the Logitech webcam when I changed the video plugin to v4l in the gnomemeeting preferences.

I don't know if that is possible to install with the livecd but perhaps it should be changed for gnomemeeting package or the Hoary final distribution.

---

### Post by nmsa on 2005-03-31
[QUOTE=Balle-Larsen]
I noticed that only v4l2 was selectable in gnomemeeting as plugin.
After installing the libpt-plugins-v4l package gnomemeeting found the Logitech webcam when I changed the video plugin to v4l in the gnomemeeting preferences.

I don't know if that is possible to install with the livecd but perhaps it should be changed for gnomemeeting package or the Hoary final distribution.[/QUOTE]

It works for me. Larsen, how did you know about libpt-plugins-v4l ?

 I have a second box and a diff model of webcam. I will try that one too
 'thnx

---

### Post by Fab_nasty on 2005-04-17
MotherBoard : P4P800-e-deluxe
CPU : P4 2.8Ghz HT
Ram : 1024 MO
Graphic card : ATI Radeon 9800 Pro
TV card : PCTV RAVE
Webcam : Quickcam 4000 Pro
Linux : ubuntu Hoary

Hello, i have the same problem, when ubunut start, my webcam is alreader open (light on) same as using or not installed, when i open gnome-meeting (with libpt-plugins-v4l) gqcam or camstream i have the same problem, i explain : my webcam light off and light on and the software (camstream, gnome meeting or gqcam) froze, i can only foced to stop. for camstream just before froze i have a screen but it black with some line (as parazit).

I hope you understood well because english is not my natural language

---

