---
title: "Qt authentication error while installing touch screen driver (TouchKit64)"
date: 2007-12-31
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by alexbOrsova on 2007-12-31
I have a hp pavilion entertainment pc and I'm trying to get the touch screen to work. I followed the instructions on this pagev(under the touch screen section) [http://www.kellyandsopho.com/tiki/tiki-index.php?page=LinuxOnHpPaviliontx1000z](http://www.kellyandsopho.com/tiki/tiki-index.php?page=LinuxOnHpPaviliontx1000z)
but when I try to run the touchkit file as root, I get the following error:"
Qt: Session management error: Authentication Rejected, reason : None of the authentication protocols specified are supported and host-based authentication failed
".
What's going on and how can I fix this?

---

### Post by saitoh on 2008-06-10
I have the same problem on an embedded computer with a USB TouchKit screen.

I have done the following:
1) copied the egalax_drv.so to /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/
2) added '" InputDevice  "EETI" "SendCoreEvents" "' to the ServerLayout section in xorg.conf
3) I added an input device section as follows:
    Section "InputDevice"
    Driver  "egalax"
    Option  "Device"   "/dev/input/event7"
    Option  "Parameters" "/var/lib/egalax.cal"
    Option  "ScreenNo"  "0"
    EndSection

I found the /dev/input/eventX by viewing /proc/bus/input/devices and seeing what event number is generated by the touchscreen.
I also created /var/lib/egalax.cal and chmod 777 it so it can be used by the driver.

Now my touch screen works, however I would like to use the TouchKit bin file to calibrate and modify the touch screen options rather than do it manually in xorg.conf every time. I become root and run the TouchKit binary, but it gives me an error saying that in order for it to work correctly that I must be root and have the driver installed correctly. As far as I can tell I do have the driver installed correctly but still can't get the TouchKit utility working. Any suggestions would be awesome.

---

### Post by saitoh on 2008-07-03
I found out that my driver doesn't support the version of x I was running. I was realized this after checking if X correctly loaded the driver(which it didn't).

You can check by this by viewing the file /var/log/Xorg.0.log
I used the following command
"cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep nameofyourdriver"
it should return information that looks something like this (will be different for different touchscreen drivers).

(II) LoadModule: "egalax"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/egalax_drv.so
(II) Module egalax: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
(**) egalax: always reports core events
(**) egalax X device name: egalax
(**) egalaxHistroSize=10
(**) egalax associated screen: 0
(**) egalax associated screen: 0
(**) egalaxParameter=/var/lib/egalax.cal
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "egalax" (type: egalax)

if you see (EE) before any line that means there was an error loading your driver.

---

