---
title: "Conexant-Ambit Softk56 Data ICH Modem"
date: 2005-01-02
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by corwersk on 2005-01-02
Hi All,

I installed Ubuntu and think it's pretty cool.  I having a problem with my modem on my laptop not working.  When I say modem I mean 56k modem.  Where I live does not have broadband (it sucks).  The modem that is in my laptop is in the title above.  Here are the other specs.

Sony Vaio GR-370
Conexant-Ambit Softk56 Data ICH Modem
Dual boot windows XP/Ubuntu (just downloaded it from ubuntulinux.com friday).
Boot up is controlled by grub.

I have done pppconfig from the command line and it sets up fine.
When I use the command "sudo pon" and I get an error about /dev/modem and when I go to /dev/modem there is nothing about a modem in there.  

I have followed the steps at [http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/DialupModemHowto/view?searchterm=modem](http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/DialupModemHowto/view?searchterm=modem)

I need to get my modem working or I am going to uninstall ubuntu.  

Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by corwersk on 2005-01-06
Hi all...  I downloaded and tried to install the linux driver for this modem (I think) from linuxant.com.  I followed the instructions and this is what I received.  It still does not work.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

root@:/ # dpkg -i hsfmodem_7.18.00.02full_i386.deb
(Reading database ... 62961 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace hsfmodem 7.18.00.02full (using hsfmodem_7.18.00.02full_i386.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement hsfmodem ...
Setting up hsfmodem (7.18.00.02full) ...
Conexant HSF softmodem driver, version 7.18.00.02full

If you need license keys, assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hsfconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Debian-testing/unstable linux-2.6.8.1-3-386 i686

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)
Please ensure that the kernel-headers or kernel-source package is installed.
On Debian, try "apt-get install kernel-headers-2.6.8.1-3-386"

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/usr/src/linux]

WARNING: missing file /usr/src/linux/include/linux/autoconf.h
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).

First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.

The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).

Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.

Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "hsfconfig".
dpkg: error processing hsfmodem (--install):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Errors were encountered while processing:
 hsfmodem

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Any help would be appreciated!  I'm sure the linux Gods will know something.

---

### Post by corwersk on 2005-01-09
You know what... Nevermind - I'm tired of fighting this crappy software and am going to uninstall it.

---

