---
title: "Ubuntu with fglrx: unable to change resolutions"
date: 2004-11-17
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by catapultic on 2004-11-17
Hi all. I'm a Linux newbie (winxp convert) and need some help setting up my video card drivers on Ubuntu Linux.

First of all, here is my core system setup:
Motherboard: MSI K7N2 Delta
Video Card: ATI Radeon X800 Pro (256 MB RAM).
Monitor: Sony HMD-A440 19"
Processor: AMD Athlon 2500+
RAM: 1GB dual-mode DDR

I used the Synaptic Package Manager to download and install fglrx and fglrx-control. fglrx is the free ATI driver, and fglrx-control is the control panel for it (which I have still been unable to find).

After I installed it, I rebooted and ran fglrxconfig, the configuration utility which rewrites XF86Config-4, the X-Server configuration file. This is the XF86Config-4 file it generated.

# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "Files"
     FontPath     "unix/:7100"               # local font server
     # if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
     FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
     FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
     FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
     FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
     FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
     FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
     FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
     FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
     FontPath     "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
     FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
     FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
     Load     "GLcore"
     Load     "bitmap"
     Load     "dbe"
     Load     "ddc"
     Load     "dri"
     Load     "extmod"
     Load     "freetype"
     Load     "glx"
     Load     "int10"
     Load     "record"
     Load     "speedo"
     Load     "type1"
     Load     "v4l"
     Load     "vbe"
     Load     "xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
     Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
     Driver          "keyboard"
     Option          "CoreKeyboard"
     Option          "XkbRules"     "xfree86"
     Option          "XkbModel"     "pc104"
     Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
     Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
     Driver          "mouse"
     Option          "CorePointer"
     Option          "Device"          "/dev/input/mice"
     Option          "Protocol"          "ImPS/2"
     Option          "Emulate3Buttons"     "true"
     Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
     Identifier     "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X800 Pro (R420 JI)"
     Driver          "fglrx"
     BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
     Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
     HorizSync     30-75
     VertRefresh     50-85
     Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
     Identifier     "Default Screen"
     Device          "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X800 Pro (R420 JI)"
     Monitor          "Generic Monitor"
     DefaultDepth     24
     SubSection "Display"
          Depth          1
          Modes          "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
     EndSubSection
     SubSection "Display"
          Depth          4
          Modes          "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
     EndSubSection
     SubSection "Display"
          Depth          8
          Modes          "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
     EndSubSection
     SubSection "Display"
          Depth          15
          Modes          "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
     EndSubSection
     SubSection "Display"
          Depth          16
          Modes          "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
     EndSubSection
     SubSection "Display"
          Depth          24
          Modes          "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
     EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
     Identifier     "Default Layout"
     Screen          "Default Screen"
     InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
     InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
     Mode     0666
EndSection



I did notice in the log after running fglrxconfig a message stating that no supported video card was found, although I am running an X800. However, in the list provided at the start of fglrxconfig, the X800 is not listed. I am probably foolishly assuming that my card is supported when it's not.

So I restarted xserver using the command: sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

Everything came up fine, but I wanted to change my screen resolution and this is the error message I got:
--> The X Server does not support the XRandR extension.  Runtime resolution changes to the display size are not available.

Anyone see anything, maybe in the XF86Config-4 file, that jumps out at you?

I haven't even TRIED playing a game with this yet :) I also tried the official ATI drivers but I'm still a linux noob, so converting the package to .deb and all that didn't seem to work for me at all... long story short I couldn't get it installed and the package manager was much easier.

Thanx in advance for your help.
-Dan

---

### Post by easy_target on 2004-11-20
I have the same message when trying to switch resolutions and I have a Radeon 9600XT.

Can some enlightened soul give us some help?  :-?

---

### Post by dionyses on 2004-12-28
me too :(
help!

---

### Post by daniels on 2004-12-28
The ATI binary driver (fglrx) does not support changing resolutions while running; you have to edit XF86Config-4.  The free ATI driver (ati/r128/radeon) does, although it will not give acceleration on r3xx and r4xx-based cards (Radeon 9550 and above).  The drivers in Warty are probably too old for your card (it is quite new); you'll have to use the drivers from Hoary, our development tree, if you want 3D acceleration.

---

### Post by emperor on 2004-12-28
[QUOTE=daniels]The ATI binary driver (fglrx) does not support changing resolutions while running; you have to edit XF86Config-4. The free ATI driver (ati/r128/radeon) does, although it will not give acceleration on r3xx and r4xx-based cards (Radeon 9550 and above). The drivers in Warty are probably too old for your card (it is quite new); you'll have to use the drivers from Hoary, our development tree, if you want 3D acceleration.[/QUOTE] If configured using "fglrxconfig", I found that you can configure the resolution using the standard "gnome-display-properties" utility, Xv and 3D work also work properly. I have a Generic ATI 9600Pro adapter.
  
  I followed the info in the Ubuntu Wiki and releated documents that are available online.
 
 My XF86Config-4 file: (deleted some unused portions to save space!)
 =============
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # DRI Section
 # **********************************************************************
 Section "dri"
 # Access to OpenGL ICD is allowed for all users:
     Mode 0666
 EndSection
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # Module section -- this  section  is used to specify
 # which dynamically loadable modules to load.
 # **********************************************************************
 #
 Section "Module"
 
 # This loads the DBE extension module.
 
     Load        "dbe"      # Double buffer extension
 
 # This loads the miscellaneous extensions module, and disables
 # initialisation of the XFree86-DGA extension within that module.
     SubSection  "extmod"
       Option    "omit xfree86-dga"   # don't initialise the DGA extension
     EndSubSection
 
 # This loads the Type1 and FreeType font modules
     Load        "type1"
     Load        "freetype"
 
 # This loads the GLX module
     Load        "glx"   # libglx.a
     Load        "dri"   # libdri.a
 
 EndSection
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # Files section.  This allows default font and rgb paths to be set
 # **********************************************************************
 
 Section "Files"
 
 # The location of the RGB database.  Note, this is the name of the
 # file minus the extension (like ".txt" or ".db").  There is normally
 # no need to change the default.
 
     RgbPath    "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
 
 # Multiple FontPath entries are allowed (which are concatenated together),
 # as well as specifying multiple comma-separated entries in one FontPath
 # command (or a combination of both methods)
 # 
 # If you don't have a floating point coprocessor and emacs, Mosaic or other
 # programs take long to start up, try moving the Type1 and Speedo directory
 # to the end of this list (or comment them out).
 # 
 
 # Added fonts from my original Ubuntu XF86Config-4 file - 11/13/04 LJP
     FontPath  "unix/:7100"                    # local font server
     # if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
     FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
     FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
     FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
     FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
     FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
     FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
     FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
     FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
     FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
     # paths to defoma fonts
     FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
     FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
                             
 # The module search path.  The default path is shown here.
 
 #    ModulePath "/usr/X11R6/lib/modules"
 
 EndSection
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # Server flags section.
 # **********************************************************************
 
 Section "ServerFlags"
 
 # Uncomment this to cause a core dump at the spot where a signal is 
 # received.  This may leave the console in an unusable state, but may
 # provide a better stack trace in the core dump to aid in debugging
 
 #    Option "NoTrapSignals"
 
 # Uncomment this to disable the <Crtl><Alt><BS> server abort sequence
 # This allows clients to receive this key event.
 
 #    Option "DontZap"
 
 # Uncomment this to disable the <Crtl><Alt><KP_+>/<KP_-> mode switching
 # sequences.  This allows clients to receive these key events.
 
 #    Option "Dont Zoom"
 
 # Uncomment this to disable tuning with the xvidtune client. With
 # it the client can still run and fetch card and monitor attributes,
 # but it will not be allowed to change them. If it tries it will
 # receive a protocol error.
 
 #    Option "DisableVidModeExtension"
 
 # Uncomment this to enable the use of a non-local xvidtune client. 
 
 #    Option "AllowNonLocalXvidtune"
 
 # Uncomment this to disable dynamically modifying the input device
 # (mouse and keyboard) settings. 
 
 #    Option "DisableModInDev"
 
 # Uncomment this to enable the use of a non-local client to
 # change the keyboard or mouse settings (currently only xset).
 
 #    Option "AllowNonLocalModInDev"
 
 EndSection
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # Input devices
 # **********************************************************************
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # Core keyboard's InputDevice section
 # **********************************************************************
 
 Section "InputDevice"
 
     Identifier    "Keyboard1"
     Driver    "Keyboard"
 # For most OSs the protocol can be omitted (it defaults to "Standard").
 # When using XQUEUE (only for SVR3 and SVR4, but not Solaris),
 # uncomment the following line.
 
 #    Option "Protocol"   "Xqueue"
 
     Option "AutoRepeat" "500 30"
 
 # Specify which keyboard LEDs can be user-controlled (eg, with xset(1))
 #    Option "Xleds"      "1 2 3"
 
 #    Option "LeftAlt"    "Meta"
 #    Option "RightAlt"   "ModeShift"
 
 # To customise the XKB settings to suit your keyboard, modify the
 # lines below (which are the defaults).  For example, for a non-U.S.
 # keyboard, you will probably want to use:
 #    Option "XkbModel"   "pc102"
 # If you have a US Microsoft Natural keyboard, you can use:
 #    Option "XkbModel"   "microsoft"
 #
 # Then to change the language, change the Layout setting.
 # For example, a german layout can be obtained with:
 #    Option "XkbLayout"  "de"
 # or:
 #    Option "XkbLayout"  "de"
 #    Option "XkbVariant" "nodeadkeys"
 #
 # If you'd like to switch the positions of your capslock and
 # control keys, use:
 #    Option "XkbOptions" "ctrl:swapcaps"
 
 # These are the default XKB settings for XFree86
 #    Option "XkbRules"   "xfree86"
 #    Option "XkbModel"   "pc101"
 #    Option "XkbLayout"  "us"
 #    Option "XkbVariant" ""
 #    Option "XkbOptions" ""
 
 #    Option "XkbDisable"
 
     Option "XkbRules"    "xfree86"
     Option "XkbModel"    "pc104"
     Option "XkbLayout"    "us"
 
 EndSection
 
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # Core Pointer's InputDevice section
 # **********************************************************************
 
 Section "InputDevice"
 
 # Identifier and driver
 
     Identifier    "Mouse1"
     Driver "mouse"
     Option "Protocol"   "ImPS/2"
     Option "ZAxisMapping"   "4 5"
     Option "Device"     "/dev/input/mice"
 
 # When using XQUEUE, comment out the above two lines, and uncomment
 # the following line.
 
 #    Option "Protocol"   "Xqueue"
 
 # Baudrate and SampleRate are only for some Logitech mice. In
 # almost every case these lines should be omitted.
 
 #    Option "BaudRate"   "9600"
 #    Option "SampleRate" "150"
 
 # Emulate3Buttons is an option for 2-button Microsoft mice
 # Emulate3Timeout is the timeout in milliseconds (default is 50ms)
 
 #    Option "Emulate3Buttons"
 #    Option "Emulate3Timeout"    "50"
 
 # ChordMiddle is an option for some 3-button Logitech mice
 
 #    Option "ChordMiddle"
 
 EndSection
 
 
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # Monitor section
 # **********************************************************************
 
 # Any number of monitor sections may be present
 
 Section "Monitor"
     Identifier  "Monitor0"
     HorizSync   30-96
     VertRefresh 50-160
     Option "DPMS"
 EndSection
 
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # Graphics device section
 # **********************************************************************
 
 # Any number of graphics device sections may be present
 
 # Standard VGA Device:
 
 Section "Device"
     Identifier  "Standard VGA"
     VendorName  "Unknown"
     BoardName   "Unknown"
 
 # The chipset line is optional in most cases.  It can be used to override
 # the driver's chipset detection, and should not normally be specified.
 
 #    Chipset     "generic"
 
 # The Driver line must be present.  When using run-time loadable driver
 # modules, this line instructs the server to load the specified driver
 # module.  Even when not using loadable driver modules, this line
 # indicates which driver should interpret the information in this section.
 
     Driver      "vga"
 # The BusID line is used to specify which of possibly multiple devices
 # this section is intended for.  When this line isn't present, a device
 # section can only match up with the primary video device.  For PCI
 # devices a line like the following could be used.  This line should not
 # normally be included unless there is more than one video device
 # installed.
 
 #    BusID       "PCI:0:10:0"
 
 #    VideoRam    256
 
 #    Clocks      25.2 28.3
 
 EndSection
 
 # === ATI device section ===
 
 Section "Device"
     Identifier                          "ATI Graphics Adapter"
     Driver                              "fglrx"
 # ### generic DRI settings ###
 # === disable PnP Monitor  ===
     #Option                              "NoDDC"
 # === disable/enable XAA/DRI ===
     Option "no_accel"                   "no"
     Option "no_dri"                     "no"
 # === misc DRI settings ===
     Option "mtrr"                       "off" # disable DRI mtrr mapper, driver has its own code for mtrr
 # ### FireGL DDX driver module specific settings ###
 # === Screen Management ===
     Option "DesktopSetup"               "0x00000000" 
     Option "MonitorLayout"              "AUTO, AUTO"
     Option "IgnoreEDID"                 "off"
     Option "HSync2"                     "unspecified" 
     Option "VRefresh2"                  "unspecified" 
     Option "ScreenOverlap"              "0" 
 # === TV-out Management ===
     Option "NoTV"                       "yes"     
     Option "TVStandard"                 "NTSC-M"     
     Option "TVHSizeAdj"                 "0"     
     Option "TVVSizeAdj"                 "0"     
     Option "TVHPosAdj"                  "0"     
     Option "TVVPosAdj"                  "0"     
     Option "TVHStartAdj"                "0"     
     Option "TVColorAdj"                 "0"     
     Option "GammaCorrectionI"           "0x00000000"
     Option "GammaCorrectionII"          "0x00000000"
 # === OpenGL specific profiles/settings ===
     Option "Capabilities"               "0x00000000"
 # === Video Overlay for the Xv extension ===
     Option "VideoOverlay"               "on"
 # === OpenGL Overlay ===
 # Note: When OpenGL Overlay is enabled, Video Overlay
 #       will be disabled automatically
     Option "OpenGLOverlay"              "off"
 # === Center Mode (Laptops only) ===
     Option "CenterMode"                 "off"
 # === Pseudo Color Visuals (8-bit visuals) ===
     Option "PseudoColorVisuals"         "off"
 # === QBS Management ===
     Option "Stereo"                     "off"
     Option "StereoSyncEnable"           "1"
 # === FSAA Management ===
     Option "FSAAEnable"                 "no"
     Option "FSAAScale"                  "1"
     Option "FSAADisableGamma"           "no"
     Option "FSAACustomizeMSPos"         "no"
     Option "FSAAMSPosX0"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosY0"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosX1"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosY1"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosX2"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosY2"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosX3"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosY3"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosX4"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosY4"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosX5"                "0.000000"
     Option "FSAAMSPosY5"                "0.000000"
 # === Misc Options ===
     Option "UseFastTLS"                 "2"
     Option "BlockSignalsOnLock"         "on"
     Option "UseInternalAGPGART"         "no"
     Option "ForceGenericCPU"            "no"
     Option "KernelModuleParm"           "agplock=0" # AGP locked user pages: disabled
     BusID "PCI:1:0:0"    # vendor=1002, device=4150
     Screen 0
 EndSection
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # Screen sections
 # **********************************************************************
 
 # Any number of screen sections may be present.  Each describes
 # the configuration of a single screen.  A single specific screen section
 # may be specified from the X server command line with the "-screen"
 # option.
 Section "Screen"
     Identifier  "Screen0"
     Device      "ATI Graphics Adapter"
     Monitor     "Monitor0"
     DefaultDepth 24
     #Option "backingstore"
 
     Subsection "Display"
         Depth       24
         Modes       "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
         ViewPort    0 0  # initial origin if mode is smaller than desktop
 #        Virtual     1280 1024
     EndSubsection
 EndSection
 
 # **********************************************************************
 # ServerLayout sections.
 # **********************************************************************
 
 # Any number of ServerLayout sections may be present.  Each describes
 # the way multiple screens are organised.  A specific ServerLayout
 # section may be specified from the X server command line with the
 # "-layout" option.  In the absence of this, the first section is used.
 # When now ServerLayout section is present, the first Screen section
 # is used alone.
 
 Section "ServerLayout"
 
 # The Identifier line must be present
     Identifier  "Server Layout"
 
 # Each Screen line specifies a Screen section name, and optionally
 # the relative position of other screens.  The four names after
 # primary screen name are the screens to the top, bottom, left and right
 # of the primary screen.
 
     Screen "Screen0"
 
 # Each InputDevice line specifies an InputDevice section name and
 # optionally some options to specify the way the device is to be
 # used.  Those options include "CorePointer", "CoreKeyboard" and
 # "SendCoreEvents".
 
     InputDevice "Mouse1" "CorePointer"
     InputDevice "Keyboard1" "CoreKeyboard"
 
 EndSection
 
 ### EOF ###

---

