---
title: "2 GB PC3200 or 3GB PC2700?"
date: 2006-09-14
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by jazzgossen on 2006-09-14
I'm planning on a memory upgrade. I have an Abit NF7-S motherboard, which supports either 2 GB PC3200 RAM or 3GB PC2700 RAM max, according to the manual. (Currently I have 512 MB.) Which is likely to give the best performance? Do you think there's a noticable speed difference between PC2700 and PC3200?

---

### Post by bcbooter on 2006-09-14
2gb, hence you wont use up all 2gb you will not benefit from 3gb whatsoever unless you do some serious editing,multitasking which you most likely dont do..so basically think of it as 2gb pc 2700 or pc3200

---

### Post by szf on 2006-09-15
Yeah, today my machine's been up for 14 hrs... memory usage is ~1.1 GB of 2GB available. This is a non-optimzed - i.e. default- Ubuntu installation. Assuming there's some saved $USD on the 2GB units, you might as well not pay for what you don't/won't use....

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2006-09-15
> **szf said:**
> Yeah, today my machine's been up for 14 hrs... **memory usage is ~1.1 GB of 2GB available**. This is a non-optimzed - i.e. default- Ubuntu installation. Assuming there's some saved $USD on the 2GB units, you might as well not pay for what you don't/won't use....
I just dont see how this happens unless people run apps that have memory leaks. I put a gig of RAM in every machine I build and hardly evre use it. When I happen to though (games, video work) after Im doing whatever task things go back to normal.

Anything over a GIG just seems like bragging rights to me. 8-)

---

### Post by szf on 2006-09-15
> **MetalMusicAddict said:**
> I just dont see how this happens unless people run apps that have memory leaks.

You say that like people are irresponsible. Maybe they like their Firefox with a dozen plugins and streaming internet radio. Btw, I paid less for 2GB than I did for a 128MB card in '98.

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2006-09-15
> **szf said:**
> You say that like people are irresponsible.
Oh no. Thats the problem with the internet. Its non-emoting. :)
> Maybe they like their Firefox with a dozen plugins and streaming internet radio.
Sorry. I do the same thing and Ive just never seen it happen. Maybe Im lucky.
> 
Btw, I paid less for 2GB than I did for a 128MB card in '98.
I have a 800meg HD I paid $300 for back-in-the-day. :) For $360 now you can get a 750gig one. Ahh technology...

---

### Post by szf on 2006-09-15
So is > 1 GB bragging rights still ;)

The Linux loves RAM message goes a way back... you believe that the cost outweighs the benefit - even when memory is cheap?

---

### Post by jazzgossen on 2006-09-15
Heavy 3D graphics use loads of memory. The app that persuaded me to get some more RAM typically uses about 450 of my physical RAM and more than that of swap space. I don't have this app running that often, but it's a pain to see it swapping for ages when I do.

With two people logged on to the computer, running Opera and Firefox, a few emacs instances, and a dozen or so of other X apps... I think I will have use of those 2 GB. 

So if PC3200 is not significantly faster than PC2700, I'm even tempted to go for 3GB of slower memory rather than 2GB of faster memory.

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2006-09-15
> **szf said:**
> The Linux loves RAM message goes a way back... you believe that the cost outweighs the benefit - even when memory is cheap?
No, for the most part, I dont believe that just because something is cheap I should buy it. With me, Ive never got near that kind of usage. I still feel alot of times the gig I have is a waste. I usually only see about a 500 or so meg usage. Hell, I dont even use swap space in an effort to actually use more of my RAM.

If I actually ever started to use that ammount of RAM maybe I would feel different. I just dont see many people who have. Unless they are doing something like video editing. :)

---

### Post by cracker on 2006-09-16
> **jazzgossen said:**
> Heavy 3D graphics use loads of memory. The app that persuaded me to get some more RAM typically uses about 450 of my physical RAM and more than that of swap space. I don't have this app running that often, but it's a pain to see it swapping for ages when I do.

With two people logged on to the computer, running Opera and Firefox, a few emacs instances, and a dozen or so of other X apps... I think I will have use of those 2 GB. 

So if PC3200 is not significantly faster than PC2700, I'm even tempted to go for 3GB of slower memory rather than 2GB of faster memory.

PC3200 is significantly faster, if you need it to be. Most applications, aside from video editing and heavy 3D applications, don't require memory to be all that fast. However, if you've ever done benchmarking, you know faster memory is always better. Also, the timings are just as important as the speed of the memory. I'd suggest getting PC3200 anyway, but only if it has similar timings to the PC2700 you're considering. Some value RAM has very high latency, and is actually slower than some lower clocked RAM with tighter timings.

---

### Post by Abild on 2006-09-16
First of all start by telling us which cpu you got.

Secondly, i suggest you read the manual again. It does not state anywhere that you can only use 2gb of PC3200. It supports 1 gb of ram in each memory bank no matter the speed of the ram module.

Which ram to get depends on the default fsb speed of your cpu. Older Barton 2500+ - 3000+ had a fsb speed on 166mhz while newer 3000+ and 3200+ bartons  had a 200mhz fsb speed

The defaults speed of PC2700 is 166mhz and the default speed of PC3200 is 200mhz

Therefore, buying PC3200 ram if your cpu have 166mhz fsb is a waste of money because the ram will automatically clock down to the same speed of the fsb.

If you have a cpu with 200mhz fsb you should definitely get PC3200 ram. If you use PC2700 ram together with a 200mhz fsb cpu you'll have to use ram dividers to make the ram run slower than the fsb. In most cases this setup will have a negative impact on performance.

Something wich have an even bigger impact on performance than pure transfering speeds are ram timings. Ram timings has something to do with how many clock cycles your computer have to wait to recieve data from the ram. The CAS timing is the most importiant. Usually, going for CAS 2 ram is a god idea. The other (2-x-x-x) timings should be as low as possible as well. As mentioned earlier many ceap ram have CAS 2.5 or maybe even CAS3.

---

### Post by szf on 2006-09-16
> **MetalMusicAddict said:**
> No, for the most part, I dont believe that just because something is cheap I should buy it.It was not my intent to say that if RAM is cheap, buy as much as you desire. Rather, it was based on my decision when I last upgraded my pc. I realized that I was very close to using 1GB of memory when the system was up for the whole day - so I budgeted a matched pair of 1GB PC3200. While it was the most expensive line item in the upgrade - it was also < $150 USD.

> **MetalMusicAddict said:**
> With me, Ive never got near that kind of usage. I still feel alot of times the gig I have is a waste. I usually only see about a 500 or so meg usage. Hell, I dont even use swap space in an effort to actually use more of my RAM.So simply put, we have different experiences with RAM usage. Most of the time I don't do anything unusual with the linux box - but I like the idea of having room for personal project app server/db-backend combo. :-)

---

