---
title: "Can't read data-DVD"
date: 2007-04-06
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by fluoblack on 2007-04-06
Hello!
It's an emergency. 
I want to read a DVD (data DVD+R, maybe -R, burned under Mac OSX) but Ubuntu won't let me read it.
It works with games and DVD video and I can read it under windoz.

Don't get it, any ideas?

My fstab list:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hdc1 -- converted during upgrade to edgy
UUID=1b950bdb-4e4d-45a5-92ed-c0562b6ffb77 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# /dev/hdc2 -- converted during upgrade to edgy
UUID=39163662-ec10-4f75-a607-fc531cdd2180 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# /dev/hdc5 -- converted during upgrade to edgy
/dev/hdc5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
# /dev/hdd1 -- converted during upgrade to edgy
UUID=c8dedbd1-1221-406f-b5b7-932f7b0828a8 /media/hdd1 ext3 defaults 0 0
```

---

### Post by fluoblack on 2007-04-07
anybody?

---

### Post by fluoblack on 2007-04-10
Is there any way to upgrade firmwares on linux?
My drive is a Sony  DVD RW DRU-720A

---

### Post by induscreed on 2007-09-22
sudo mount  /media/cdrom

right-click on desktop.
Create launcher

Type :  File
Name : DVD-R
Command : /media/cdrom

OK

---

### Post by fadumpt on 2008-01-09
induscreed.....that's great but it should already do that...

when I put a mac formatted DVD in my system it comes up and says that it had invalid mount options.  I tried adding mode= (and umask) 222 but that didn't work...

---

### Post by Jonie on 2008-01-10
Perhaps you talk about HFS formatted dvd. You may mount it using -t hfsplus manually. I found that in case you have fixed mount point for cd as it is setup by default, i.e. entry point in /etc/fstab with options iso9660, udf for your /dev/hdc, /dev/scd0 or whatever you have, mounting will fail anyway. With that entry removed it will mount hfs even automatically. The drawback is that your optical discs will no longer appear as /media/cdrom but as /media/any-label-it-has. But this way I can read whole OS X install disc. By default, it only sees the iso9660 stub, so called 'first partition'. Perhaps you may try adding hfsplus to that entry in /etc/fstab

Anyway after disc is inserted you can see then something like this:

/dev/scd1 on /media/Mac OS X Tiger Install DVD type _hfsplus_ (ro,nosuid,nodev...

and not

/dev/scd1 on /media/Mac OS X Tiger Install DVD type_ iso9660_ (ro,nosuid,nodev...

---

### Post by idella4 on 2008-01-10
How is it the cdrom device is hda in /etc/fstab??  Was that generated by ubuntu?
It seems to me /dev/hda should be a hard drive.  A cd drive should be be
/dev/cdrm or /dev/dvdrecorder, but they are generally sym links to something more fundamental like 
/dev/hdd  or /dev/sda.

That's where I'd be looking to experiment.

---

### Post by Jonie on 2008-01-10
Well, Ubuntu won't stop you from swapping the ribbon cables... that's why :) Or to be more formal you can say "self assembled".

---

