---
title: "umount /dev/cdrom doesn't work"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by almancora on 2007-10-23
I wanted to make a iso of a cd-rom. But when I type "sudo umount /dev/cdrom" in terminal it says " umount: /dev/cdrom: niet aangekoppeld" , niet aangekoppeld is dutch for not connected or not mounted I gess, I'm not that god in english.

How do I fix this?

I can rip songs from it with soundjuicer, but I cannot umount??? 

thx in advance 

Ruben

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-10-24
Hi there,

That error *seems* to be self-explanatory ... unless of course **mount | grep /dev/cdrom** tells you the device is in fact mounted. Could you post the full output of **mount**?

---

### Post by almancora on 2007-10-24
ruben@ruben-laptop:~$ sudo mount | grep /dev/cdrom
[sudo] password for ruben:
ruben@ruben-laptop:~$ mount /dev/cdrom
mount: blok-apparaat /dev/scd0 is schrijfbeveiligd en wordt als alleen-lezen aangekoppeld
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/scd0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       Soms staat er nuttige informatie in het systeemlog --
       probeer zoiets als:  dmesg | tail

---

### Post by almancora on 2007-10-24
I don't know what all those things mean. Can I somehow make the terminal give back respons only in english. Dutch is my mother language, but with dutch, you dudes can't help me if I copy past and I don't know all the exact words in english

---

### Post by almancora on 2007-10-24
Someone told me it could be a short-comming driver. I am using a laptop: EasyNote S but I don't know the name of my cd/dvd reader/reWriter. If I look at System > Preferences > Hardware-informating. I don't see my cd/dvd-device. It' remarkable that I do see my external Hard disk, but not a peace of hardware that's inside my laptop??

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-10-24
Hey again,

> **almancora said:**
> Dutch is my mother language, but with dutch, you dudes can't help me if I copy past and I don't know all the exact words in englishDon't worry about that. :-) The forum rules do ask users to post in English only, but I've used Dutch-speaking computers before, so I can recognise many messages.

Just in case you don't know this already, the messages you posted suggest...[LIST]
[*]Initially, your optical drive was not mounted. (There's a redundant "sudo" in that first command, by the way.)
[*]You try to mount it, assuming my dutch is okay the device is described as "read only" (which is obvious), and the filesystem type is not recognised, which is quite different than your initial problem.
[/LIST]

Could you reproduce this error and post the output of "dmesg | tail" as suggested in the message, along with the contents of /etc/fstab? Also, what was in the drive at the time? (DVD or CD)

---

### Post by jespdj on 2007-10-25
If English is difficult for you, try these Dutch Ubuntu forums:

[http://forum.ubuntu-nl.org/](http://forum.ubuntu-nl.org/)
[http://www.ubuntu-forums.nl/](http://www.ubuntu-forums.nl/)

---

### Post by almancora on 2007-10-26
Is this what you mean by fstab:

ruben@ruben-laptop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
# 
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=099d94b0-6618-4e96-ac0f-4fcf543a0540 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=9334da7a-b6fa-4950-8b75-b04b8a075920 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=5cd68685-f5cc-4eee-a557-96e35ade23c5 /media/sda2 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=fa1caabd-a568-42c9-abf0-fa77e9da5b92 /media/sda7 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=2ae253b5-b81c-4c36-a32d-ecef4a263bbc none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0


I also get:
ruben@ruben-laptop:/$ sudo umount /media/cdrom0
[sudo] password for ruben:
umount: /media/cdrom0: niet aangekoppeld
ruben@ruben-laptop:/$ mount /dev/cdrom
mount: blok-apparaat /dev/scd0 is schrijfbeveiligd en wordt als alleen-lezen aangekoppeld
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/scd0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       Soms staat er nuttige informatie in het systeemlog --
       probeer zoiets als:  dmesg | tail

ruben@ruben-laptop:/$  dmesg | tail
[17555.624000] end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 407088
[17555.628000] end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 406864
[17555.632000] end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 408104
[17555.636000] end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 407080
[17555.640000] end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 406856
[17555.644000] end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 1248
[17555.648000] end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 1024
[17555.648000] UDF-fs: No partition found (1)
[17555.668000] end_request: I/O error, dev sr0, sector 64
[17555.668000] isofs_fill_super: bread failed, dev=sr0, iso_blknum=16, block=16


How do I make the terminal give response in english? I want to learn working with linux in english terms, that seems much more handy, for finding help, discussing things with someone.

---

### Post by almancora on 2007-10-26
It's an audio-cd, in my cd-rom-drive

---

