---
title: "Dell bluetooth keyboard not working properly"
date: 2007-02-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by tony0 on 2007-02-11
Hi All!

I am having trouble getting my Dell Bluetooth Keyboard to work properly. I have a Kubuntu and a Windows partition on my harddisk. 

I followed this [post (http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=227057&highlight=bluetooth+keyboard)]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=227057&highlight=bluetooth+keyboard") and even got everything to work. However, everytime I boot up Windows I have to repair my keyboard there and after booting up Linux the next time I have to do it there as well again.

I suspect it having something to do with the PIN code. On Windows I have to enter an autogenerated key everytime I connect the keyboard again. On Linux I don't have to enter any PIN at all.

Could anyone shed some light on this?

Thanks in advance,

Constantin.

---

### Post by MrSneeze on 2007-02-18
Exactly the same problem here with a Microsoft Keyboard Elite for Bluetooth (rev 2.0). The mouse works fine but pairing the keyboard under Ubuntu 6.10 undoes the pairing in Windows XP and vice-versa.

I've tried typing a pin code when connecting with hidd --search (as stated in the guide) but it doesn't seem to help. The guide says I should be prompted to enter the pin I just typed into my keyboard but I'm not. Right there that makes me think something is broken.

I have a feeling things would go so much better if I was able to get Ubuntu to allow me to specify a pin code to use for connecting (like Windows gives me the option of doing) and tell it to use the same pin code that Windows generates for me, maybe?

---

### Post by NiX_IT on 2008-01-21
ignore my post :P

---

