---
title: "MP3 player stuck in read-only mode."
date: 2007-06-22
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by MrVisible on 2007-06-22
For a time, my little GPX MW3347 worked perfectly in Ubuntu. Then, it started telling me that it was in read-only mode. It's less than useful in that mode.

It does work (read/write) when I hook it up to a WinXP machine.

Here's its output from fdisk -l:

```
Disk /dev/sda: 2061 MB, 2061500416 bytes
8 heads, 32 sectors/track, 15728 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 256 * 512 = 131072 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       15728     2013168    b  W95 FAT32

```

Output from sudo lsusb:
```
Disk /dev/sda: 2061 MB, 2061500416 bytes
8 heads, 32 sectors/track, 15728 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 256 * 512 = 131072 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       15728     2013168    b  W95 FAT32

```

fstab:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb1 :
UUID=9d924479-b038-4be8-b366-3646de31f707 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=720aaeb6-845b-4b16-91d7-ae0c05d9675c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdd1 /media/MusicDrive ext3 defaults 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/windows ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/GPX vfat user,rw,suid,umask=0000,utf8 0 0
```
(In trying everything, I put in that final line, unmounted and remounted. No effect, except now I need to be root to mount and unmount the drive, and the drive remains read-only.)

df -h:
```

Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/hdb1              71G   11G   57G  16% /
varrun                506M  104K  506M   1% /var/run
varlock               506M     0  506M   0% /var/lock
procbususb            506M  188K  506M   1% /proc/bus/usb
udev                  506M  188K  506M   1% /dev
devshm                506M     0  506M   0% /dev/shm
lrm                   506M   33M  473M   7% /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile
/dev/hdd1             147G   93G   48G  67% /media/MusicDrive
/dev/hda1             115G  115G  210M 100% /media/windows
/dev/sda1             2.0G  465M  1.5G  24% /media/GPX
```

And lastly, the info from mount:
```

/dev/hdb1 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
procbususb on /proc/bus/usb type usbfs (rw)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
/dev/hdd1 on /media/MusicDrive type ext3 (rw)
/dev/hda1 on /media/windows type ntfs (rw,umask=222,utf8)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw)
/dev/sda1 on /media/GPX type vfat (rw,noexec,nodev,umask=0000,utf8)
```

I should mention that when I look at the properties of the GPX when it's mounted, in the Volume tab it says that the mount options are: 
ro nodev noexec fmask=0000 dmask=0000 codepage=cp437 iocharset=iso8859-1 utf8
even though in the mount options section underneath, where there's an input line, I've got this:
user,rw,suid,umask=0000,utf8 0 0

I've been at this for days. Why would it work for a while, then just suddenly stop working, and be read-only? I'm baffled. I would really appreciate any help I could get with this.

---

### Post by raul_ on 2007-06-22
try 

sudo chmod a+rw /media/GPX

---

### Post by MrVisible on 2007-06-22
Thank you for the suggestion. For a brief moment, it seemed like it might just work. But then...
```

sudo chmod a+rw /media/GPX
Password:
chmod: changing permissions of `/media/GPX': Read-only file system

```

Aside from sitting and yelling "You are NOT a read-only file system!" at it, I have no clue what to do next.

---

### Post by raul_ on 2007-06-22
Just for testing, try to comment that line in fstab and mount your volume manually

sudo mount -t vfat /dev/whatever /media/GPX

---

### Post by MrVisible on 2007-06-22
Thanks again for the help. I tried commenting the line in fstab, then tried that command, and now in the properties of the newly-mounted drive, the permissions still read root. When I try to create a directory in the device, though, I get:
```

mkdir: cannot create directory `test': Read-only file system

```

For giggles, I even tried sudo mkdir test. It laughed at me. I swear, my console laughed at me.

---

### Post by raul_ on 2007-06-22
sudo mount /dev/hda1 /media/windows/ -t vfat -o iocharset=utf8,umask=000 

in the terminal

and 

/dev/whatever    /media/GPX vfat  iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0

in fstab (i guess this was the one you had)

you can also try this link that is for ntfs but you could change it a little to be for an external device and for FAT

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html")

---

### Post by MrVisible on 2007-06-22
I tried your first suggestion, and got the same results; device mounted in read-only mode.

Ubuntu should read FAT32 natively, so I don't see how your second link applies, really. I'd appreciate some clarification on that one.

Thanks for your help; this is really puzzling me. 

I've been going through the forums for days, and I haven't found anything that works. Any suggestions or additional resources would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by raul_ on 2007-06-22
Yes, but since I do all my work in the command line, I wasn't sure if that GUI had support for other filesystems. That's a really odd problem =\ i tried mate, but I'm out of ideas now :(

---

### Post by pickarooney on 2007-06-22
If it's of any help, my player mounts with the following properties:
```

/dev/sdf1 on /media/FlashDisk type vfat (rw,nosuid,nodev,noatime,uid=1000,utf8,shortname=lower)

```

---

### Post by MrVisible on 2007-06-22
All right, thanks to a Linux-oriented friend, I made some serious progress on this.

Apparently, at some point I unplugged the device without unmounting it. This sowed chaos and confusion, which was only remedied when I reformatted the drive (on another machine). Once it was reformatted, it mounted.

But...

It's in Root mode. I had to mount it as root, and could only move files to it via sudo in the terminal window.

So I commented out the lines regarding it in fstab, and voila; it works again.

So, to sum up, if you have this problem, don't mess with your settings. Don't worry about your config files. Reformat your device, and just plug it back in.

At least, I think that's what worked for me.

---

### Post by skywatcher on 2007-06-24
Hi all

I've been following the thread of MrVisible's problem because I have a similar problem with a USB Flash drive. However, there are a few twists to the story: First, my Flash drive, which used to mount as 'usbdisk', suddenly started to mount in read-only mode. Then I tried some of the advice given in this thread, and did this:

```
sudo chmod a+rw /media/usbdisk
```

Great was my delight when I found I could copy files to usbdisk, but equally great was my astonishment the next time I switched on my computer and found that usbdisk was still 'there' (in the file browser), complete with the files that I had copied to it, even though the physical device had been removed after the last switch-off. Equally weird is he fact that the next time I plugged in the Flash drive after power-up, it mounted as 'FLASH' instead of usbdisk! Then I decided to look at fstab and mtab. There is no reference to either usbdisk or FLASH in fstab:

```
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
/dev/hda1       /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/hda5       none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
```

But mtab contains this line:

```
/dev/sda1 /media/FLASH vfat rw,nosuid,nodev,quiet,shortname=mixed,uid=1000,gid=1000,umask=077,iocharset=utf8 0 0
```

If I now plug in a different Flash drive, it also mounts in read-only mode as usbdisk-1, but for some reason it doesn't help if I try this:

```
sudo chmod a+rw /media/usbdisk-1
```

Any ideas, anyone? Or is MrVisible's advice to reformat the only solution? And why does the system still see usbdisk and its files even though it is no longer plugged in?

Thanks

---

### Post by pickarooney on 2007-06-24
First off **umount** both /media/usbdisk and /media/FLASH (with sudo) then plug out the device. 
When you plug it back in, check if and where it mounts this time.
If needs be, delete the offending line from mtab.

Check that the memory stick doesn't have a phyiscal switch on it making it read-only before formatting it and get into the habit of unmounting removable drives before plugging them out.

---

### Post by Mike_SMD on 2007-06-24
Hi Folks!

I'm posting this mostly as a *BIG THANK YOU* because parsing the advice above definitely worked for me. I purchased a Sandisk Sansa c150 mp3 player the other day and the first time I plugged it in everything worked but after that I got stuck in a 'read-only' conundrum that had me tearing my hair out. Really, in the end I killed two birds with one stone as implementing the fix I got rid of all of those crappy preloaded songs that the player came with as well.

All I had to do was   --> reformat the device <--  .

1) Take out the battery
2) Plug it into your USB port and let it mount
3) Use Gparted and format the drive to Fat32
4) Disconnect the Sansa c150
5) Turn it back on and after a few moments follow the prompts to get your basic parameters set up - I think all that I had to select was the display language.

Simple as pie, and everything is back to normal.

Great work everybody, saved my bacon once again!

Mike.

---

### Post by sargate on 2007-07-26
I get that read only thing, I solved in a much simpler way:
At least for the e200 series (I have an e280R)
1.- Turn off your sansa
2.- Lock the device
3.- Hold the record button
4.- Turn it on
5.- Connect your usb
6.- Umount your sansa
7.- Disconnect usb
8.- Turn off your sansa
9.- Turn on your sansa
10.- Enjoy everything again!!!

Using feisty

---

### Post by bloodything on 2007-10-15
just thought i should pass on this little pearl which just cost me an hour or so.. many mp3 players have a keypad lock. it seems that this same lock (at least on mine..) also locks the files. bah.

---

