---
title: "Dell I9300 + 5.10 out-of-box initial impressions"
date: 2006-05-12
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by s0cket on 2006-05-12
This week I went ahead and sliced off 20 gigs from my NTFS partition and installed Breezy Badger.  Here are the basics on my I9300:

I9300 2GHz P-M/1GB DDR2/nvidia go6800/WUXGA TrueLife/100GB SATA/802.11 b/g WiFi

The Good:

- Install completed without a hitch.
- Networking up and running with no problems on my WiFi.
- X11 settings flawless, defaults to my LCD's 1920x1200 native res.
- FRONT PANELS BUTTONS WORK (volume, etc).  This floored me.
- Fast install.  Less then an hour from first boot to Desktop and updates installed.


The Bad (and ugly):

- No DPMS support with default "NV" Xorg Nvidia driver.  (this more then likely isn't an issue for non-laptop user)  e.g.  Backlight doesn't turn off, etc.
- No speedstep support.  CPU runs at 2 GHz with no throttling up/down.
- Fans appear to not respond to increasing temps by ramping up fan speeds.  Which is slightly disturbing considering the CPU is running at full speed.


Now mind you this is all from an "out-of-box" stand point.  I understand all of the bad can be fixed with a little work.  (powernowd, i8kutil,  etc)

I can say nothing bad about Ubuntu really.  Other then it's support for laptops (maybe Dell in specific) out of box is a little lacking.  In fact I would say if you ran Ubuntu for daily use out-of-box with no modification it *could* potentially shorten the life of your machine.  At very least your battery life would be terrible. =)

Going through the minor pains of updating the real Nvidia drivers and installing a couple kernel modules and utilities is well worth the trouble to get Ubuntu running right on the I9300.  But if you're not willing to do so I would recommend sticking with Windows XP.

---

