---
title: "P4 3.4Ghz terrible over HEATING"
date: 2008-02-19
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-19
I have personal computer I built about a three year ago.  And the processor chip is getting worse and worse as time goes on.  The temp is about 132 F to 165 F.  I won't let the processor get any hotter than that.  The normal temp of the processor running only the system files is about 132 F.  At 163 F the PC starts beeping, somewhere above 170 F it will shut off because it's too hot.  I can't stand it any longer.  I can't run movies at all almost.  No full screen, it over heats it.  I can play a move at about 640 X 480 (some where around that).  Play Music gets it up to 140 F (about).  I can't do anything on that computer.  

I have dusted the computer in the last week.  I have 5 80mm fans and one 120mm fan within the PC.  Some intake and some outtake.  Good air flow.  I have processor fan as well.  I don't know much details on it, but it's about 5 ot 6 inches tall and it runs smoothly.  I think it's a pretty good processor fan.  So, my question is... What should I do about it?  I'm thinking about getting a new processor fan or just a new processor.  I think thats my only options.

PS: if you need more details on the processor just let me know.


SPECS:
550 watts PSU
P4 3.4GHz
2 GIG DDR ram
Nvidia 4000 Series (?) it's older 128 mb video ram
6 HD
OS XP Pro

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-19
If you are talking about the P4 Prescott, then I completely agree with you. My PC used to shutdown because of overheats until I put two more fans into the chassis, but I cannot say that there was a great improvement because the processor always runs at an average of 60-65C and gives out an enormous amount of noise.

I highly recommend that you buy a new processor if you have the money because it seems that your processor is worse than mine(which is a 3.2Ghz Prescott). Or if you want to keep your old processor, then you may want to rethink your cooling and chassis options, try and get some better fans and a more ventilated chassis, those could fix your problem.

---

### Post by kristjans on 2008-02-19
Not sure what exact processor and motherboard you have, but sometimes you can *underclock* it from BIOS. It's an opposite of making your computer faster (overclocking), so instead of making it hotter it will stay cooler.

---

### Post by brunolabs on 2008-02-19
Buy some quality thermal paste, a larger heatsink and a better fan maybe.
If the problem remains you can try to lower the core voltage a little bit in the BIOS menu.

---

### Post by .nedberg on 2008-02-19
I had a similar problem with my AMD64 4000+.

Some new thermal paste fixed it. Read up on how to apply it though, it is not easy. I did it wrong once and that made it worse :(

Remember: "Less is more"

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-20
Here's the list I am going try to fix it:
 - Try Undedrclocking it
 - Smacking down some Thermal Paste
 - New Processor

First things first,

How do I underclock my BIOs.  I tired looking it up online, but I wasn't getting anything.  I think it has something to do with the voltage (as said by brunolabs).  I went digging around in my BIOs and I found like four or five different voltage area thingys within my BIOs.  Which one do I lower?  I saw something voltage and Cvoltage (i think).  Is there a howto page or thread on how to do this voltage lowering?  Please, if anyone can hyperlink for me.  That would be pretty awesome.

Sugi

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2008-02-20
There is typically voltage control for the processor (core voltage--perhaps called cvoltage) and the memory.  Try reducing in small increments and take note of the temperature right after bootup.

Clean off the old heat paste with alcohol.  Be sure to ground yourself by continuously touching the metal chassis of the case.  Apply a THIN layer of high-quality thermal paste.  You want to cover the entire chip when pressed down, but you don't want it to flow outside of the the chip.  It may take a couple of attempts to get it right.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2008-02-20
You ought to try a hyper threaded if you want to see HEAT .. the box becomes a pizza oven.

My solution (because the processor position on the board in relation to the power supply precluded adding a big cooler of ANY kind.)

Fans .. and LOT of them, one on the bottom blowing UP, one as an intake, added two exhaust fans and took a chassis punch and punched holes in the sides of the case and afterwards covered the holes with speaker grille cloth from the inside.  It dropped the ambient in the box by nearly 20 degrees and the processor by over 10 degrees (Cecilius)  Adding all of those fans meant I had to put in a much bigger power supply!

But with 5 computers on 24/7 and crunching numbers (100% on the processors at all times)  And my media room, the need for added heat in my apartment in the winter is MINIMAL!

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-20
Just reduce the core voltage?  By what? .1 increments?  or should I do the core voltage and the memory reducing as well?  How would I reduce the memory?  what which memory are we refering to?

---

### Post by troutbum13 on 2008-02-20
Prescotts do run really hot...but I would make sure that your heat sink is fully seated, the stock HSF with the plastic clips is a little sketchy, if you don't get it in all the way you will see issues.

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-20
> the stock HSF with the plastic clips is a little sketchy
huh?
> HSF
Huh huh?

---

### Post by Z_o-s-o on 2008-02-20
HSF = Heat sink / fan

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-02-20
Was your machine pre-built or did you build it yourself? If it was pre-built, you probably won't find voltage/speed controls for your processor in the BIOS because the manufacturer doesn't want to clean up when the 16-year old decides to run dad's PC at 5GHz and 1.6V

Don't touch the memory voltage (if there is such a control in your BIOS). DDR2 doesn't consume much power at all and you don't want to make your memory unstable. In all likelihood, it's probably running at the 1.8V minimum already.

Your best course of action here is going to be a heatsink reinstall (preferably with a better aftermarket heatsink, though I'm not sure what's available in Japan). Make sure you clean the processor with 9x% pure rubbing alcohol and cotton swabs. Do the same for the heatsink if reinstalling. Pre-built machines usually use a cheap thermal pad or inferior paste. Again, I'm not sure what's available in Japan for quality thermal compound, but hopefully, it's relatively cheap like here in the States.

Here's a good list of heatsinks if you're interested in purchasing another
[http://www.silentpcreview.com/article30-page1.html](http://www.silentpcreview.com/article30-page1.html)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-02-20
> **oldsoundguy said:**
> You ought to try a hyper threaded if you want to see HEAT .. the box becomes a pizza oven.

Being the cynic that I am, I encourage everyone to run 4 instances of Folding at Home on their Pentium D 840's in the summer to burn as much fossil fuel as possible and accelerate the greenhouse effect and the downfall of man.

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-20
Temüjin, I made this computer.  I am hoping for just underclocking my CPU first, and then heatsink.  I notice, you didn't really say much about unclocking?  Is it a bad idea to unclocking?  I have ASUS motherboard P5GD114 and P4 3.4GHz processor.  I am not sure if it's Prescott or not.  Would it just be better to do the heatsink instead of unclocking?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-02-20
Actually, your processor should automatically underclock itself at idle if the motherboard supports Speedstep. Do this for me:
```
cat /proc/cpuinfo
sudo apt-get install cpufrequtils
cpufreq-info
```

---

### Post by Z_o-s-o on 2008-02-20
I dont think underclocking to stop an overheating problem is the answer.

The correct thing to do is look at the heastsink and thermal paste. Is there too much? Not enough? Is the heatsink seated right? Crammed full of dust.

Underclocking to solve overheating is akin to me buying a 500 horsepower V-8 and pulling a few spark plug wires to save gas.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-02-20
I agree, the heatsink should be cleaned and reinstall. I was not suggesting he underclock the maximum speed under load, but I want to make sure his processor is underclocking at idle, if possible.

---

### Post by Z_o-s-o on 2008-02-20
Temujin,

I know what you mean. Btw I like your avatar thing, when I first heard the name for Hardy Heron, the first thing I did was swap it to Hardy Heroin :)

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-20
Temüjin, I know if I underclocked the processor it would only be a short term answer for my problem.  I think I am going to do some new heatsink and thermal paste on the processor.  It sounds likes the best idea at the moment.

Temüjin, at the moment I am under Windows XP.  So, I won't be able to install cpufrequtils through the terminal.  I don't think I got a terminal under XP ( :) ).  I got to do some research on heatsink and paste for my processor.  I have never bought and "install" heatsink and thermal paste before.  Is ther tutorials online for this?

Thanks,
Sugi

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2008-02-20
actually the thrmal paste tells u how much to apply and how to

---

### Post by Z_o-s-o on 2008-02-20
When you get new thermal paste choose the brand Ceramique.  It tends to be a little bit better than the generic stuff, and isnt conductive like Arctic Silver.

Thermal paste application instructions found here. Your cpu would be an Intel single non exposed core.

[http://www.arcticsilver.com/ceramique_instructions.htm](http://www.arcticsilver.com/ceramique_instructions.htm)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-02-20
Arctic Silver 5 isn't conductive (it's slightly capacitive). Either way, it's not an issue unless you put too much on.

---

### Post by fedex1993 on 2008-02-20
new heat sink and some new fans will probley do it or take off the side of the case and get a fan blowing on it anyimte your running or install a water cooling system like i did(watch out for leeks)

---

### Post by Z_o-s-o on 2008-02-21
Temujin,

Sorry thats what I mean, I tend to screw that up alot.

---

### Post by brunolabs on 2008-02-21
> **Sugi said:**
> Just reduce the core voltage?  By what? .1 increments?  or should I do the core voltage and the memory reducing as well?  How would I reduce the memory?  what which memory are we refering to?

Reduce the core voltage by the minimum increment available each time. After that, stress the processor a little bit (100% load for about a minute ou two) to check it's stability. If the computer starts crashing reset the voltage to the previous stable state.
Don't need to change memory values.

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-21
I am looking into some thermal paste for my computer now.  I found a really good website with a tutorial for my install of the paste on the p4 775 socket.  Does anyone have some advice for thermal paste?  Z_o-s-o said the brand Ceramique was good.   Anyone else?

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2008-02-21
I use ARCTIC SILVER, have for years.  Just do not put TOO MUCH where it oozes out the sides and be very careful to NOT fill the small "hole" in the processor.  If you are replacing the old paste has to be thoroughly removed .. a swab and alcohol will do but watch the pressure you apply ... best to clean the processor while it is IN the socket to preserve the pins.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-02-21
> best to clean the processor while it is IN the socket to preserve the pins.
The last time I checked, Socket 775 uses a Land Grid Array (LGA) and doesn't have pins on the CPU, but on the mobo socket itself. You have to be really careless to bend those pins :P

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-22
What brand should I use?

ZEROtherm
Arctic Silver
COOLER MASTER
KINGWIN
Antec
Tuniq
XIGMATEK
OCZ
MASSCOOL Stars
Rosewill

I am thinking about:
Cooler Master (but I have heard some bad ratings)
Antec
Arctic Silver (this could be bad one? :()

Sugi

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2008-02-22
that was just a general statement on the processor cleaning , btw 

(my preference is Arctic Silver.  Used on audio equipment for years including digital processing items.)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-02-22
Robust discussion. I am not sure about any of this. I build the odd computer and just happens the one I finished two days ago had the AMD 64 x2 4000+. That sits at 40 degrees celcius all round and 34 for the motherboad, stock CPU fan (and blows virtually cold air after 3 hours). Stock boxed CPU fan, BTW. Admittedly, not much in the box.

My desktop has a P4 3.0 with hyperthreading and from memory, at last look it was around 45 celcius. This has 3 drives, vid card, sound card, DVD, decent quiet CPU fan and super quiet and energy efficient (therefore cool) PSU. Neither machine has a case fan.

I agree with the thermal paste, a good one (the operative words being non-adhesive, straight insulating heat transferring paste) not goop, is definitely going to help and improves over repeated heating cycles resulting in drops as low as 5-10 C (also from memory!). With CPU temperatures coming down, it is not so important anymore, but you can get a definite improvement. Same applies to a decent CPU fan. If it is rated as quiet (ie 21dB or less) you could guess it is also pretty efficient ... it would have to be to be that quiet.

My opinion though? What PSU are you using? The largest waste of power in computers is the power supply and if you have a 'silver box' PSU, that is likely to be running around 70% efficiency. Where does the other 30 go? Heat, of course. World's best standard is 80+ efficiency and some currently on the market in reality achieve more like 85%. They are not ridiculously expensive so save your pocket, the planet and your processor and look into it. Several of the more popular cooling experts now make RoHS standard/80+ supplies - try Antec and Coolermaster for their specific lines (Antec quotes its 'EarthWatts' as being the most efficient and green on the planet!).

One last point about 'silver box' power supplies: they are dangerous. They generally have very little in the way of auto safety switches and if you have ever seen sparks and smoke and flames shooting out the back of a box, you'll know that a $20 PSU is exactly that. You get what you pay for.

With a clean, green power machine in your box, if you are still getting some of the temperatures that have been reported on this thread, try replacing CPU fan to something other that the boxed one (although thermal paste may fix that) but if you need to start throwing case fans in, I'd start to seriously look at a possible defect with one of your other components.
 
(I've overlooked the size of the vid card, if applicable, and the size of the case, which is going to be a factor if it is small and packed - no room for components to breath) :)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-02-22
Hey Sugi. Adding to my last post on this thread:

I only use Arctic Silver and there is no problem (not conductive and a million builders can't be wrong!). Others on your list may be better environmentally though.

P4 775? Remove old fan with screwdriver, unlock the 4 plastic caps on the fan. They have little grooves in them.

Then applying paste is simple:
1/ Clean your processor with isopropyl alcohol (like a mediswab but check)
You can do this while still in the bracket on the motherboard, no need to remove.

2/ Put on a latex glove, get a blob (not a lot to start) on your index finger and make a nano mountain range on the back of the processor (ridges, not flat - you want to make connection with the fan's heat sink). Do this by lightly poking the processor all over if you get me.

3/ Remove fan from packaging being careful not to touch the heatsink which is going to be in contact with the thermal paste (grease, scratches no good)

4/ Carefully put fan in place without attaching, remove and check heatsink to make sure you have reasonably even contact all over (touch up if necessary but relax - I sometime don't even check but might pay to the first time, just to get the idea).

5/ Attach fan (Socket 775 - reverse of taking it out - put spring legs into holes and press one by one with screw driver until clicks then turn to lock in - **NB: make sure you check before you apply fan all legs are in the unlocked position!!!**)

6/ Plug in 4 pin female fan connector


If you can't move the fan at all and would be almost confident enough to lift the motherboard out with it, then it is locked in. This is essential. You wil know or not but make sure you know.

AMD takes about 30 seconds from start to finish, CPU and fan (unless applying thermal paste) so won't go there.

Before you get too carried away, switch the box on and make sure fan is spinning. If yes, switch off and proceed to plugging in screen and anything else then switch on machine. If all's well, put the sides back on and your done.

If you have an old fan, it pays to have a little practice with locking/unlocking the legs and understand the concept of what is physically going to happen. The reason I say this is because there is not normally a lot of room to move or see inside the box.

Good size box, plenty of clearance, efficient power supply, quiet CPU fan, adequate cooling for high-end components and your on your way to a cooler, more efficient and cost effective computing future! Good luck with it all. :)

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-22
Bucky Ball, thanks for the heads up. :)  That howto should fill in all the gaps *pun included* that I need to know to install the thermal paste.  I will probably be going with Arctic Silver at the moment.  It stills to be the best product for thermal paste.  Oh, by the way, I have a 550 Watts Power Supply Unit.  I can't remember at the moment who made it.  It should be a good PSU though.

Sugi

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-02-22
> **Sugi said:**
> Bucky Ball, thanks for the heads up. :)  That howto should fill in all the gaps *pun included* that I need to know to install the thermal paste.  I will probably be going with Arctic Silver at the moment.  It stills to be the best product for thermal paste.  Oh, by the way, I have a 550 Watts Power Supply Unit.  I can't remember at the moment who made it.  It should be a good PSU though.

Sugi
Like the pun and no problem. Appropriate because that is exactly what you are trying to do - fill in the gaps. Remember-one teensy pocket of air can produce nasty hotspots in an otherwise perfectly pasted heatsink and that will effect temperature (or worse!). I normally check temperature in the bios at boot for maybe the first 10 times I switch on, just to make sure it is reasonably stable. As I say, within a few days, you may see the temperature drop a few degrees with the Arctic Silver (they claim maximum efficiency after around 50 heat cycles).

550w and within the last few years should be good. You can have a look at the make when you take side of case off (details generally on side of PSU).

Most important thing about it is:- stay relaxed and take it slow. Just make sure you double check as you go and before switching stuff back on and you'll be fine.

Just a note - a thin layer of paste is fine and thinner the better. You don't want 1/4 inch of paste - just enough to not be able to see metal of CPU. And none on the heatsink, just CPU.

Cheers.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-02-22
One last thought - when I say paste the CPU, I do of course just mean the bit that is sticking up and is going to make contact with the fan, *not the whole cpu!*

But you probably figured that, anyhow. Good luck. ;)

---

### Post by Z_o-s-o on 2008-02-23
I think the performance of Ceramique is better because it doesnt diminish over time as much as Arctic Silver does.

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-23
Bucky Ball, if you don't mind, is there a way of contacting you via email or something for faster conversation when I install thermal paste.

Z_o-s-o,  I will look into that brand.  When, I did a quick search, I didn't see Ceramique for sale.


Sugi

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-02-25
Hey, Sugi. Sorry I didn´t get back to you sooner but been a busy time.

Here&#347; one answer, and specifically for you Z_o.s.o ... Ceramique is made by Arctic Silver, but maybe you knew that anyhow. So that is the end of that debate I would have to imagine. In which case, I have no idea why the Ceramique paste would have such different structural performance than anything else in their excellent line, but who knows. Arctic Silver 5 is still the most common.

Sugi, can´t pin down a time right now, maybe later in the week, but this page should tell you just about everything you want to know:

[http://www.arcticsilver.com/instructions.htm](http://www.arcticsilver.com/instructions.htm)

This will tell you about whatever ´flavour´ of paste you are looking to apply when it comes to the Arctic Silver range. Which ever one you choose, you are looking for the instructions for this kind of Intel processor:

Arctic Silver 5  Instructions for Large Single Core Intel CPU w/Heatspreader

From memory you are going the P4 775. This paste is not inexpensive incidentally, but you do get enough to use for every processor you are likely to install for the rest of your life! (Unless you get inspired by your success and go into business installing them!!) ;) 

Again, good luck and let me know how you are getting on with it. :)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-02-25
Having had a bit more of a think about the Arctic Silver Ceramique ...

There could be something in what you say, Z_oso, as Ceramique suggests ceramic. This paste may well have some structural differences in that case, as the active insulating material in the others is ... silver, oddly enough! (among other things)

I haven´t looked any further into this but the Arctic Silver site may give a full explanation.

:)

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-02-25
Bucky Ball,  when you are free, please feel free to email via my ubutnu forum account.  My email will be right there.

Sugi

---

### Post by Z_o-s-o on 2008-02-25
Bucky Ball,

Theres alot of difference. As in its completely different stuff from what I gather. Its not metallic at all, like AS 5 and doesn't have any problems like the tendency to be slightly capacitive like AS 5 did, plus ceramique doesn't wear out over time.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-02-28
Z_o-s-o, yep, correct. And isn´t it interesting the Arctic Silver is the one with ceramic in it, not Ceramique? I would go for that myself now, the Ceramique, to thanks for the tip.

Sugi, pretty busy right now so hard to pin down a time. Have a bit of a surf and you will find instructions with pictures, but the main thing is to stay relaxed and take your time with it. Triple check everything is as it should be before powering up. Simple once you get the hang of it and as I say, practice on an old fan. The trickiest part can be the locking caps on the fan so just make sure you have them figured out (and in the ´unlocked´ position before installing) and you´re away. Use a screwdriver to press the caps and legs into place. When you hear a click, you know you are in and give the cap a twist into ´locked´ position. :)

Having said all that, if I have some time on the weekend I will give you a hoy.

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-03-05
Today, I was looking around at a walgreen for some isopropyl alcohol.  I read online that it should be 100% no water, but all I could find was 91%.  I was going to buy it, but I wanted to make for sure if 91% is oh kay.  What proof does everyone here use for their processor?

Sugi

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-03-05
You won't get 100% alcohol. My scientist friend who is head oenologist (wine scientist more or less) at the Wine Research Institute here in South Aus assures me that 100% alcohol is in fact about 99.8%. There is always some kind of impurity which cannot be extracted.

As I said a few posts ago, think Medi-Swab, if you get them over there. Go to your first aid kit and find the swabs, check they are isopropyl alcohol and not something else (some are) and if that checks out, start cleaning up the mess. You will notice it evaporates very quickly, no water or anything else evil left behind. They are the most convenient.

Test one out on a piece of metal beforehand to put your mind at ease. :)

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-03-06
Bucky Ball, if I can't find Medi-Swabs, is it oh kay if i go with isopropyl alcohol 91% instead?  Because I don't think any drug stores around me have the swabs.  Should I just go with 91%

Sugi

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2008-03-06
Realize that even after all the careful prep with heat paste, it's possible that the motherboard has suffered damage from years of running at limit temperatures.  The CPU's can take the heat, it's the support chips that get warped when the surrounding motherboard gets hot.  That damage is intermittent and difficult to troubleshoot.

Without replacing the motherboard, declocking is usually the only way to get these heat-damaged machines to work consistently if at all.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-03-07
tgalati4 certainly has a point. There could have been damage done due to long periods at high temps.

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-03-19
I just installed the thermal paste about 20 minutes ago.  

Temp (without side panel on & Out door temperature: 05 C)
During bios temp was at 132F to 141 F.
During boot up, temp was 122 F
During idle, temp was at 109 Lows (104 at the lowest for a second)
During idle with small movements of mouse and looking through the file manager, 114F ish

Temp (with side panel on & Out door temperature: 05 C)
During boot up, temp was 122 F
During idle, temp was at 111 Lows (104 at the lowest for a second)
During idle with small movements of mouse and looking through the file manager, 118F ish



Pictures:
My Buddies:
Paste:
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63160&stc=1&thumb=1&d=1205965597[/IMG]
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63160&d=1205965597")
Alcohol Swabs 70%:
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63161&stc=1&thumb=1&d=1205965597[/IMG]
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63161&d=1205965597")
Old Thermal Paste:
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63158&stc=1&thumb=1&d=1205965597[/IMG]
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63158&d=1205965597")
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63159&stc=1&thumb=1&d=1205965597[/IMG]
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63159&d=1205965597")
Cleaned:
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63162&stc=1&thumb=1&d=1205965597[/IMG]
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63162&d=1205965597")
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63163&stc=1&thumb=1&d=1205965676[/IMG]
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63163&d=1205965676")


Sugi

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-03-19
My Thermal Paste:
(I didn't feel safe with all those holes in the paste and wanted it to spread a little bit more.)
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63164&stc=1&thumb=1&d=1205965676[/IMG]
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63164&d=1205965676")

New Version of My Thermal Paste:
(It may look like a lot of thermal paste, but to me it was very flat and thin.)
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63165&stc=1&thumb=1&d=1205965676[/IMG]
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63165&d=1205965676")

All Done :):
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63166&stc=1&thumb=1&d=1205965676[/IMG]
[Link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=63166&d=1205965676")

Sugi

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-03-19
Oh, I almost forgot.  How was my first thermal paste job?  Did I use too much?  I am unsure of myself.  Please, any pointers.  Let me know.

Oh, I am sorry about my photos guys.  All I had at the time was my camera phone. :-/  Sorry >.<

Sugi

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-03-20
Sorry haven't been about, uni started and have been flat out with that and other projects. :)

All looks good and the temp looks okay. Have you go a lot of heat making stuff in the box (graphics cards, pci, anything with it's own fan (which would dispense hot air into the box)? Are there any exterior fans attached to the panels or back of the box? You might have mentioned this earlier, but maybe refresh my memory.

Can't quite make out the paste job, but tell me one thing: did you apply paste to cover the whole of the raised area of the processor or just where the fan is going to go? Or did you apply paste only to the fan (not great)? It is best to cover the whole of the processor.

Swabs are exactly right for this job (unless you really want to hunt down some 'pure' (read 99 and a bit percent) alcohol. Good job so far.

Is this an improvement on the original temp? From memory it is. This seems pretty normal. We are in Celcius over here though I get both readings. I haven't taken much notice of the Farenheit temp on mine, but from memory around 104. I have an excellent power supply though (Coolermaster iGreen) and good fan (Thermaltake) so that makes the difference. Designed to be energy efficient and quiet for audio work (and my sanity 'cos it is on for hours during study times!). When I put in the new fan over christmas I had no idea how I had survived the previous year with the din of the 'out of the box' P4 fan.

Anyhow, looking good so far. Not sure of other components but taking into account that you may have what I call a 'silver box' power supply (rated at 70% and below as opposed to what will eventually be a blanket standard of 80% plus energy efficiency), looking good. Think about it. If a PSU is working at 70 or 75% efficiency, where does the other 25% percent go??? Heat, of course. :)

Congratulations, you should be proud of yourself! Before you know it, you'll be building your own rocket machine for half the price of an off the shelf comp from a store, custom made to way better specs and saving money on your power bills!!! If you want any advice on eco-friendly energy efficient computer building, fire away ...

Well done, I think ... :)

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-03-20
Updated:
Temp (without side panel on & Out door temperature: 05 C)
During bios temp was at 132F to 141 F.
During boot up, temp was 122 F
During idle, temp was at 109 Lows (104 at the lowest for a second)
During idle with small movements of mouse and looking through the file manager, 114F ish

Temp (with side panel on & Out door temperature: 05 C)
During boot up, temp was 122 F
During idle, temp was at 104 F Lows (104 at the lowest for a second)
During idle with small movements of mouse and looking through the file manager, 104 F
During heavy loads, for 10 minutes around 150 F / 64 C (lows about 149 F and highs about 152 F)

The report.  The system was turned off for about 3 hours.  After start up, I let it run for a little bit.  It was stuck at 104 F :)  Amazingly enough the temp stayed around 104 F for some file manager task.  Though heavy loads pushed it to 150 F / 64 C, but it stayed around there for the full 10 minutes.  I am going to try to push it for longer and even heavier loads.  Then I'll post the result of the heavier loads.

I have an old geforce 4 128 mb video ram (i think it can almost be ran without any fans in the case).  550 watts PSU, but still no name yet.  This weeken I'll search around for the product of that PSU.  Some smal pci cards.  I have one fan intake directly on the video card, and two intakes directly on the hard drives. and two outtakes at the back of the case right above the pci cards.  I am pretty sure my airflow is oh kay.

Oh sh*t, I applied the thermal paste to the whole raisen area.  Should I take off the paste and reapply it?  I totally forgot about the fan only connect with the processor in a circle shape. " It is best to cover the whole of the processor."

Sugi

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-03-20
Yes, the whole RAISED area of the processor. You got it right. You don't want to guess where the fan might fit.

---

### Post by Sugi on 2008-03-24
3rd Boot
Temp (with side panel on & Out door temperature: 03 C)
During boot up, temp was 112 F
During idle, temp was at 98 F Lows
During idle with small movements of mouse and looking through the file manager, 104 F
During Movies, windows mode 111 F
During Movies, Full Screen mode 118 F
During heavy loads, for 10 minutes around 130 F

I am speechless at how much the temp has dropped. :)

Sugi

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-03-25
Just checked your very first post in this thread and I have a feeling the thermal paste on the processor and heatsink might have been a problem from the start. Now it seems you have it right. Good job.

Air is a great insulator, therefore if there are any air bubbles/gaps in there, you are going to create tiny spots of uneven temperature which is not good and will cause the kinds of problems you were reporting. A 3.4ghz P4 runs hot anyhow, so that is not going to help and will eventually destroy hardware. If you suddenly experience odd problems, this may be the case so keep your fingers crossed! So far, so good. 

That temp may go down a little more as the paste settles. As I mentioned, Arctic Silver say about 50 cycles (heat up, cool down) before maximum effect is reached (100 cycles for the Ceramique).

Again, seems like you got it right, well done.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-03-25
Don't get me wrong, Sugi, things look fine now, but some damage may, and I mean may as it looks ok for now, have been done when the machine was running to shutdown/beeping temperatures, before you fixed things up. :)

---

