---
title: "Lenovo 3000 N100"
date: 2006-05-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Robert Marley on 2006-05-20
Howdy Y'all!

I'm thinking about buying one for use with Ubuntu.  I'd get the Centrino Duo, 1 GB RAM, Intel Graphics, etc.

I've checked the Wiki, and there isn't an entry on this model.  Does anyone have experience with it?

Thanks,
Robert Marley

---

### Post by 5-HT on 2006-05-20
Hi Robert,

I'm considering purchasing one of these as well.

I found this on the wiki and it looks promising: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100")

BTW, you can get an Nvidia card with the 3000 n100 if you'd like dedicated graphics (Nvidia support on Linux is a little better than ATI).

---

### Post by Simplimus on 2006-05-22
Hi, I got one of those and my experiences so far are mixed. Well, the trouble is, I couldnt get the sound to work, everything else works great with Dapper, mostly out of the box. Wireless needed some googling but the is a solution in this forum. So far, the sound didnt work for me. Does anyone have any Ideas? The resolution is a problem, too. Natively it has 1280x800 and all I can get is 1024x768.

---

### Post by davebgimp on 2006-05-23
I have the same laptop. Just got it today. No problems with resolution, but I can confirm that sound does not work although the laptop hardware team says it should.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100)

---

### Post by jml on 2006-05-23
Though I've read good review on this laptop, two things to remember.  First, this is a new laptop so hardware support in Linux will be spotty.  Second, this computer is not a ThinkPad.  The 3000 N100 is a new laptop from the ground up.  It was designed to be less expensive than Lenovo's ThinkPad line of laptops, so you can't assume that this unit will be as Linux friendly as the ThinkPads are.  Just my two cents worth.

If you want an inexpensive laptop, you can order an HP NX6110 from the HP website by going to the small business ,(as opposed to the consumer) page.  They offer a promotion on a bare bones laptop.  (1.5 GHz Celeron processor, integrated Intel Graphics, 14.1 inch screen, 256 MB memory, ethernet port, modem, 40 gig Hard drive, PC Card slot) for $499 US.  You can order it with better specs for more money, and you can add an internal wireless card, but the card choices are not particularly Linux Friendly.  I got one and am using a PC Card wireless adaptor and it works fine.  Won't run Doom 3, but good for low intensity use.

Joe

---

### Post by davebgimp on 2006-05-24
I don't think so. I had everything working out of the box on Dapper flight 7. Upgrading to the latest kernal killed my sound, but as I read elsewhere in the forums, it's a problem for some of the Thinkpads as well. Other than sound, which I'm confident will be fixed, I have zero hardware issues. I'm really pleased with this machine. I also don't really see to much of a price gap between Thinkpads and the machine I have. I chose this over the Thinkpad as it was the one model that offered an Nvidia card.

[QUOTE=jml]Though I've read good review on this laptop, two things to remember.  First, this is a new laptop so hardware support in Linux will be spotty.  Second, this computer is not a ThinkPad.  The 3000 N100 is a new laptop from the ground up.  It was designed to be less expensive than Lenovo's ThinkPad line of laptops, so you can't assume that this unit will be as Linux friendly as the ThinkPads are.  Just my two cents worth.
[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by jml on 2006-05-24
That's good to hear, because the laptop really does offer good specs at a competitive price.

Joe

---

### Post by Erl1d on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=Simplimus]Hi, I got one of those and my experiences so far are mixed. Well, the trouble is, I couldnt get the sound to work, everything else works great with Dapper, mostly out of the box. Wireless needed some googling but the is a solution in this forum. So far, the sound didnt work for me. Does anyone have any Ideas? The resolution is a problem, too. Natively it has 1280x800 and all I can get is 1024x768.[/QUOTE]
I had this problems on two of my N100's (the model with celeron cpu and intel display adapter). i soloved my resolution problem by using "915resolution" (there are several howto's on this forum).

---

### Post by davebgimp on 2006-05-25
The sound is a [confirmed bug ]("https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/45718"), so hopefully that will be resolved soon.

[QUOTE=Erl1d]I had this problems on two of my N100's (the model with celeron cpu and intel display adapter). i soloved my resolution problem by using "915resolution" (there are several howto's on this forum).

However I havent been able to resolv the sound issue (on both the celeron and centrino duo models) with the 2.6.15-23 kernel, so I'm stuck with the -22 kernel for now.[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by davebgimp on 2006-06-06
A workaround for the sound problem:

sudo vim /etc/modprobe.d/options

Add the line:
options snd-hda-intel model=laptop-eapd

Reboot.

I now have sound with my N100. However, when plugging in headphones, the internal speakers do not mute. 
Also, the volume keys on the N100, which according to the [laptop testing page]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100") should be working, are not.

---

### Post by davebgimp on 2006-06-06
I've found a fix for the speaker/headphone sound issue I mentioned above.

Basically, I have to manually turn off "External Amplifier" in my sound settings. That turns off my laptop speakers and just my headphones have sound. Then after I'm done, I set it back to get speaker sound.

---

### Post by staso on 2006-06-07
Hi everybody,
I'm also a fresh N100 owner and in general I've quite a good feeling about this machine.
Most of things ran right out of box with Dapper stable. I have the Centrino Duo model and with a smp kernel seems this machine to be quite fast :-). I had the same problem with sound as mention before, but no problems with wifi, resolution (1600x1050), bluetooth and many other things. 
Compiling alsa driver 1.0.11 and the using of previous mentioned parameters to the module snd-hda-intel helped the sound, what made me very happy :-).
Now I'm trying to get to work the integrated CMOS camera (1,3 Mpix Microdia USB Camera) but until now I had no success with it. Has anybody else tried this? Any ideas how to get it work?

---

### Post by Erl1d on 2006-06-07
[QUOTE=staso]Hi everybody,
I had the same problem with sound as mention before, but no problems with wifi, resolution (1600x1050), bluetooth and many other things.
...
Now I'm trying to get to work the integrated CMOS camera (1,3 Mpix Microdia USB Camera) but until now I had no success with it. Has anybody else tried this? Any ideas how to get it work?[/QUOTE]
The centrino duo version of the laptop has another wifi card than the celeron, broadcom card on the celeron and intel card in the duo( at least on my N100's). 

I was also hoping to be able to use my camera, but the fingerprint scanner is a feature which is more important to me. Unfortinatly both these features seem (from what I know) without any easy fix.

---

### Post by sfabel on 2006-08-04
Has anyone gotten any further on these issues? How can I enable the webcam and the fingerprint reader?

Also, is it possible to use the KMilo service (nvram driver) for the Thinkpad laptops?

On one page I've found that the "ibm-acpi" module is supposed to be loaded, but lsmod doesn't give me anything on it.

Anyone have any ideas?

Thanks,
Stephan

---

### Post by davebgimp on 2006-08-07
> **sfabel said:**
> Has anyone gotten any further on these issues? How can I enable the webcam and the fingerprint reader?

Here's some links for enabling the fingerprint reader.

[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_enable_the_fingerprint_reader](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_enable_the_fingerprint_reader)

[http://www.qrivy.net/~michael/blua/](http://www.qrivy.net/~michael/blua/)

[http://linux.spiney.org/debian_gnu_linux_on_an_ibm_thinkpad_t43p_fingerprint_reader](http://linux.spiney.org/debian_gnu_linux_on_an_ibm_thinkpad_t43p_fingerprint_reader)

---

### Post by DaveQB on 2006-12-21
I am considering this Laptop too.

[www.pioneeringcomputering.com.au](www.pioneeringcomputering.com.au) 's DreamBook Light 822 is the other I am consdiering. (or another Lenovo if comparable (been looking at the R60 but the N100 seems a better deal)).

Any more info on this laptop and how's its been traveling would be appreciated.

PS why are these N models meant to be cheaper then Thinkpad ?  Not as durable ? Not as good battery life ?

---

### Post by davebgimp on 2006-12-22
> **DaveQB said:**
> Any more info on this laptop and how's its been traveling would be appreciated.

it's working great after nearly a year. Edgy was a huge improvement. My fan now seems to be running properly. It's a great machine.

---

### Post by DaveQB on 2006-12-22
Thanks davebgimp

---

### Post by Harpoon on 2006-12-24
The sound (and apparently everything else) works using the ubuntu-6.10-desktop-amd64.iso  >>lenovo 3000/N100 with intel 950 HD audio and 1gb ram.

I downloaded this last night and burned it.  Lo and behold, there was sound with the live cd bootup.  Now to figure what has changed from the 32 bit version.  BTW, no tweaks were applied to get this result.

Hope this eases some anxiety.

Happy holidays, all.

---

### Post by DaveQB on 2006-12-24
64bit is the way you want to go anyway.  

Why pay for 64bit technology and run it in 32bit mode ?

---

### Post by Jbloudg20 on 2006-12-27
I just ordered one of these today. Should I be downloading a SMP kernel? Anyone get beryl working with the intel 950 graphics? What 3d drivers do I need to install? 

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by deepsa on 2007-01-06
my sound not working see my thread.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=332472](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=332472)

---

### Post by deepsa on 2007-01-06
it's working great see my post for my info on how i did that.
ubuntu rocks !!

---

### Post by blim8183 on 2007-03-03
I got the 1280x800 resolution to work on my N100 but scrolling on webpages and dragging windows around is laggy. Is there a way to remedy this? Do I not have the right graphics drivers installed?

---

### Post by subiet on 2007-03-23
anyone got the integrated camera working?

---

### Post by MZaza on 2007-04-01
My lap is working fine, eventhough the integrated webcam, memory card reader and finger print are not working :S

---

### Post by Robinek on 2007-09-18
Hi,
 i have problem with sound/headspeakrs. When i plugging headspeakers so external speaker does not mut. I have recompilated Alsa  [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100_0768BJG?highlight=%28lenovo%29](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/Lenovo3000N100_0768BJG?highlight=%28lenovo%29) and it not works. Help me.Thanx

---

### Post by jaygarcia on 2007-10-05
I am having trouble installing Ubuntu Linux as a dual boot on the Lenovo 3000 N100.  I followed the directions in the Ubuntu book I have and performed a shrink on the Primary Vista partition.  When I install Linux I loose the ability to boot the Vista operating system.  I love linux, but unfortunately I need access to the Vista operating system also.  Any information would be much appreciated.

-Jay

---

