---
title: "Nvidia drivers hanging my acer aspire 9300"
date: 2007-07-06
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by verdomde on 2007-07-06
Hey there, this is my first post, so im not sure if it´s in the right topic section thing. And i´m new to Linux, so i´d apreciate pretty plain answers if possible :)

Anyway

Ive installed feisty fawn on my acer aspire 9300, and have been trying to stick Beryl on there too, beryl works, i don´t thik its the problem. But in order to get it working I had to install the correct Nvidia drivers. But for some reason after installing my computer randomly hangs  -none of the keys work, and I have to switch off by holding in the power button. It´ll work for a few minutes, and work well, but invariably it hangs. Even when I´m not using beryl as my desktop manager...

I installed Nvidia  first through Envy, then direct from the Nvidia website and I get the same problem with both.

I have it dual boot with Vista, and it´s on a 20gig extended partition along with the swap file.
Hopefully i can get it working good, cos i´d like to dispense with windows copletely at some time, that´d be nice.



This is my xorg.conf contents

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Jun 13 16:54:14 PDT 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
 Option   "AIGLX"   "true"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
    Load           "dbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 72.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation G72M [Quadro NVS 110M/GeForce Go 7300]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
    Option         "TripleBuffer" "true"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation G72M [Quadro NVS 110M/GeForce Go 7300]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
    Option         "TripleBuffer" "true"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by verdomde on 2007-07-06
Ok, so i followed a link on the nvidia site to nvnews forum, apparantly theres some kind of compatability issue with the card and the ati motherboard and the nvidia drivers. So i have to wait for an updated driver release whenever this is...
unless anyone has another fixxx???
p

---

### Post by verdomde on 2007-07-13
I posted my problem on that forum, and the nvidia fella says it doesnt applyt to me, so my problem still stands.

---

### Post by risico on 2007-07-20
> **verdomde said:**
> I posted my problem on that forum, and the nvidia fella says it doesnt applyt to me, so my problem still stands.

I had the same problem. The newest drivers from NVIDIA made my screen freeze on random moments. Install the 9755 driver instead en wait for a driver update. [ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9755-pkg1.run](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9755-pkg1.run) 
Here is the German how-to I followed --> [http://www.ubuntufreunde.de/forum/index.php?page=Thread&threadID=1028](http://www.ubuntufreunde.de/forum/index.php?page=Thread&threadID=1028)

---

### Post by verdomde on 2007-10-22
hey there, id given up on ubuntu for the time being, so didnt see your post. Ill try these drivers. ta.

---

### Post by verdomde on 2007-12-29
since this theres been updated drivers and updated ubuntu, neither this nor the solution above sorted the problem!help!

---

### Post by DaveT on 2008-01-03
Hi
 
Im also using an Aspire 9300
 
although mine is using an nvidia chipset and nvidia vga chip
 
it sounds like you may be having one of the issues that i have.
 
If so then you will find the issue lies with the flat panel setup as opposed to the actual driver, (sorry ive no better answer than that as im currently looking ofr a solution myself).
 
on this laptop the sound and wireless can be a pain to get running but they do work
 
wireless check out the BCM43xx restricted drivers
 
Sound intel-hd /nvidia /realtek this is an acer specific problem with their laptops(not sure if its all or some), the driver is set up but the output is going somewhere other than the speakers!
 
these three issues plague me each time i re install the laptop, 
 
i always solve them but always forget to make note of my solutions then end up trawling the forums for solutions that i used last time :/
 
stupid is as stupid does i guess

---

