---
title: "[SOLVED] ntfs-config problem"
date: 2007-08-03
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by cameran on 2007-08-03
hi ,

i installed ntfs-config the other day and it works great so far.  i set two drives to use ntfs-config but one of them is a drive i don't want to access via ntfs-config because i use it very infrequently and only as read-only.  I was able to stop the drive from auto-mounting thanks to help from the forum.  now my problem is when i double-click the drive in the "computer" section it just says that "Cannot mount volume. You are not privileged to mount this volume." instead of asking me for my password like it used to.

does anyone know how to get that specific drive back to being able to mount when i double-click?

by the way, here is my /etc/fstab file:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdc1 :
UUID=d8d75ea5-4895-4e9a-b6c7-d385a8e2a393 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdc5 :
UUID=2db9e6ef-70b9-4d0e-a01b-cde01c5d3a7f none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/E ntfs-3g defaults,noauto,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/My\040Documents ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0


any help would be really appreciated!!

thanks,

cameran

---

### Post by cameran on 2007-08-03
i figured it out.  what i did was delete the two entries in my fstab:

/dev/sdb1 /media/E ntfs-3g defaults,noauto,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/My\040Documents ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

and then sudo rmdir the mount points in /media

then i rebooted and re-ran ntfs-config and was able to just set up the drive i wanted while leaving the other one as-is.

:-)

cameran

---

