---
title: "Geforce 8500GT - Failed to Initialize dac HAL?"
date: 2007-05-17
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by voltagex on 2007-05-17
Hi
I'm getting some pretty strange errors when I try to use the nvidia-glx-new drivers on Feisty. I've run xconfig and it updated xorg.conf successfully, but I cannot run X as it exits with:

```
(WW) NVIDIA(GPU-0): Failed to determine GPU name
(EE) NVIDIA(GPU-0): Failed to initialize dac HAL
```

The version of the driver is:
```
nvidia-glx-new  1.0.9755+2.6.20.5-15.20
```

Anyone have ideas on what this means and how to fix it?

---

### Post by chadlongstaff on 2007-05-19
Hi , all I had to do was uninstall the nvidia driver (9775) from the repos and install the beta driver 100.14.03. Hope it's as easy for you.

---

### Post by voltagex on 2007-05-19
After I uninstalled the ubuntu package I needed to manually go in and look at why I was getting a different error (the dac HAL one went away after I installed the beta). Turned out it was still trying to load the ubuntu version of the drover so I went and found all the config files and removed them.
I then installed the beta .run off the NVidia site.

Moral of the story - use apt-get --purge remove nvidia-* when uninstalling

---

### Post by chadlongstaff on 2007-05-19
I've just discovered I'm having that silly problem with the nvidia driver loading the wrong module, only manifests itself after the reboot. API mismatch, sort of thing. Quick hack round it was to make a script executable in /etc/init.d/<script> edit it to contain:

#!/bin/bash
rmmod nvidia
modprobe nvidia

then run sudo update-rc.d <script> defaults

---

### Post by k@pl@n on 2007-05-20
i have same card and having a trouble with drviers. im alreday installed drivers (9755 32bit) and edit x.conf via nvidia xconfig.  then i want to start x but nothin progess :S  blank screen; monitor is on though.

 please look at this.  after install drivers this is x.conf:


# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Feb 26 23:38:46 PST 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

   # path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "tr"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"      # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"      # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"      # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Genel Monitör"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 51.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Monitor        "Genel Monitör"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

 xorg log file hass too many characters so i cant post but its samae default ubuntu cause after install driver s never starts.

what should i do any idea ?

feisty 32bit and 32 bit drviers

nforce 4 ultra dfi board
opteron 165
and palit 8500gt sonic
viewsonic va1912w with and without dvi cable

---

### Post by heldal on 2007-05-20
The latest chips (8500, 8600) are currently not supported in ubuntu packages, nor in the latest official drivers from nvidia. The only option for cards based on these GPUs is to try a recent beta-driver. See nvidia.com

---

### Post by voltagex on 2007-06-19
To anyone with the new cards, or anyone with these errors:

[SIZE="5"]apt-get --purge remove nvidia-*[/SIZE]
To remove all the nvidia-kernel stuff BEFORE you download the beta drivers.

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2007-07-14
Just thought I'd point out that since the release of the [100]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_100.14.09.html") [series drivers]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_100.14.11.html"), GeForce 8xxx support is no longer beta.
Most if not all 8xxx series GPUs are properly supported by the binary driver.

---

### Post by LJarvis on 2007-07-19
Im still getting no support for my 8500GT in ubuntu. I dont know whats wrong, I have tried nvidias newest driver and im still having problems. What should i do?

---

