---
title: "Sager NP5792"
date: 2007-12-22
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by JaggedOne on 2007-12-22
I am considering purchasing a [Sager np5792]("http://www.xoticpc.com/sager-np5792-custom-laptop-built-clevo-m570ru-p-2276.html") with the new 8800m GTX. Can anyone tell me how compatible this set up would be with ubuntu?

---

### Post by JaggedOne on 2007-12-22
Hello, is anybody out there?

---

### Post by evets on 2007-12-22
Your only issue would be the video card and function buttons. Everything else is, pretty much, supported out of the box.

There are plenty of threads here and on the net for the card though.

I've had, and still have an 8790, several Sagers with dual boot Win/Ubuntu and Mandrake distros on them.

Good luck.

---

### Post by JaggedOne on 2007-12-30
so it would be hard, or impossible to get that video card to work?

---

### Post by th3t1nm4n on 2007-12-30
It's an nvidia card and it's new, so it shouldn't be hard to get working, and if it is hard to get working right now, it wont' be in another couple weeks.

---

### Post by evets on 2007-12-31
> **JaggedOne said:**
> Hello, is anybody out there?

Linux Display Driver - x86

Version: 169.07
Operating System: Linux x86
Release Date: December 20, 2007

Release Highlights

    * Added support for GeForce 8800 GT, GeForce 8800 GTS 512 and GeForce 8800M.
    * Added CUDA driver to .run file.
    * Improved modesetting support on Quadro/GeForce 8 series GPUs.
    * Fixed several X rendering issues.
    * Fixed problems scrolling ARGB X drawables in Qt.
    * Improved support for interlaced DVI, HDMI, and HDTV modesetting.
    * Fixed stability problems with some GeForce 8 series GPUs.
    * Fixed stability problems with some GeForce 6200/7200/7300 GPUs multi-core/SMP systems.
    * Improved hotkey switching support for some Lenovo notebooks.
    * Fixed a problem with Compiz after VT-switching.
    * Improved RENDER performance.
    * Improved interaction with Barco and Chi Mei 56" DFPs, as well as with some Gateway 19" DFPs.
    * Added an interface to monitor PowerMizer state information.
    * Fixed rendering corruption in Maya's Graph Editor.
    * Improved interaction between SLI AFR and swap groups on certain Quadro FX GPUs.
    * Fixed a bug that caused corruption with redirected XV on GPUs without TurboCache support.
    * Improved display device detection on GeForce 8 series GPUs.
    * Improved usability of NVIDIA-settings at lower resolutions like 1024x768 and 800x600.
    * Improved GLX visual consolidation when using Xinerama with Quadro/GeForce 8 series and older GPUs.
    * Added experimental support for running the X server at Depth 30 (10 bits per component) on Quadro G8x and later GPUs.
    * Worked around a Linux kernel/toolchain bug that caused soft lockup errors when suspending on some Intel systems.

To download and install the drivers, follow the steps below:

STEP 1: Review the NVIDIA Software License.

You will need to accept this license prior to downloading any files.

STEP 2: Download the Driver File

Download - NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.07.pkg1.run

SuSE users: please read the SuSE NVIDIA Installer HOWTO before downloading the driver.

STEP 3: Install
Type "sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.07-pkg1.run" to install the driver. NVIDIA now provides a utility to assist you with configuration of your X config file. Please see Chapter 3 of the README or run 'man nvidia-xconfig' for details on usage. Instructions for those wishing to edit their X config file by hand can also be found in the README.

If you have any questions or problems, please check the linux discussion forum. If you don't find an answer to your question there, you can send email (in English) to [email]linux-bugs@nvidia.com[/email].

When emailing [email]linux-bugs@nvidia.com[/email], please attach an nvidia-bug-report.log, which is generated by running "nvidia-bug-report.sh". 



There ya' go! Have fun. :)

Download the drivers here:
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_169.07.html]](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_169.07.html])

---

