---
title: "[SOLVED] Acer laptop 5100 monitor issue"
date: 2008-01-02
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by evil316 on 2008-01-02
I have an Acer laptop 5100 model BL51.  Certain applications like todisc won't fit on the screen.  The resolution is set to 1280x800 and cannot be set higher via the gui.  The driver used is the restricted driver for the ati radeon xpress 1100 card.  I have compiz-fusion enabled as well.  When I try to autodetect the monitor the screen goes black and stays that way until I reboot (or maybe restart X which I didn't try).  Is there anything I can do to get the apps that don't fit on the screen to fit?  Here is the output of xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"      "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]"
        Driver          "fglrx"
        Busid           "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"

        # Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
        #       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
        Option          "Composite"     "0"
EndSection


Thanks!

---

### Post by thoughts on 2008-01-03
Have you set your resolution in both of the following locations?

Main Menu > System > Preferences > Screen Resolution

Main Menu > System > Administration > Screens and Graphics

I've sometimes had weird problems that ended up being the result of those 2 GUIs having different resolutions.

Have you tried disabling compiz-fusion (setting Visual Effects to None) to see if that makes any difference?

Also, in case this issue isn't specific to your laptop model, you might try changing the subject on your post to something like "apps don't fit on screen" or "windows too big for screen", so that people who don't have the same laptop won't skip over your post.  On the other hand, maybe it IS specific to your particular hardware, so that might not help -- just a thought.

--
Anthony DiSante
Encodable Industries
[http://encodable.com/](http://encodable.com/)

---

### Post by evil316 on 2008-01-03
Thanks,

I managed a workaround.  The app had a font setting and I changed to a smaller font and that allows me to work with it.  All the other apps work fine.  My resoltuion is the same in both places and I did also try disabling compiz-fusion.  I'm letting this problem go since I found a simple and effective workaround for it.

---

