---
title: "Cannot mount cd-rom, fstab didn't work"
date: 2007-08-13
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by CocheseUGA on 2007-08-13
When I first rescued this laptop, the battery and cdrom didn't work under Win98. Well, the power of the Fiesty Fawn awoke the battery. Now, in an effort to save some money, I decided to revisit the cdrom issue. The BIOS sees the drive, Ubuntu sees the drive. It can't mount it, however. Did a search and found an issue with the fstab file, the answer was change 'hdc' to 'scd1'.

As you could guess, however, that didn't work. Now, in addition to showing 'cdrom' in my file browser (that I still can't mount), it shows cd-rom1, which gives the following error when it states it cannot mount: 'mount: special device /dev/scd1 does not exist'

My guess is that the cd-rom would work, if I could get everything to line up how it's supposed to.

The machine is a Toshiba Satellite 1605CDS, with max memory. My OS is 7.04. Any other information you need, just let me know. Forgive me if I'm not sure what to do, my level of linux knowledge is shallow at best.

Thanks in advance for all your help, I'd like to acertain if I can use this drive within the next day or so. If not, I can order one from eBay before I need it for next week.

---

### Post by 5-HT on 2007-08-14
Take a look around /dev.
Some possibilities: /dev/scd0, /dev/cdrom, /dev/sr0. Proper mountpoints will need to be made.

Another thing to try would be to automount a disk and, if successful, take a gander of the 'mount' output to see what the device is getting recognized as (fstab independent).

---

### Post by CocheseUGA on 2007-08-14
I tried using /dev/cdrom, but no. It did have the effect of removing the fake cdrom that was created when I edited it to /dev/scd1.

Guess I'll have to keep trying possibilities.

---

### Post by CocheseUGA on 2007-08-14
Well, I tried again to boot with a disc, and it didn't work. So, I'm attributing this to a bad drive. Too bad, because I thought I was getting somewhere when Ubuntu could tell me exactly what type of drive it was and everything.

Luckily, after finding out what model it was instead of trying to search by the laptop model, prices went from $150 to $3 for a replacement drive. Hopefully, it will be here by the end of the week.

---

### Post by dansen926 on 2007-08-17
I'm pretty new to Ubuntu (and Linux in general), and my hp dv6500t CTO laptop has been causing me problems mounting the cdrom. I believe my DVD drive is on the SATA bus, but I can't get it to mount at all. It worked just fine using the liveCD, but for some reason I can seem to mount it in 7.04 (standard install or alternate)

listings in my /dev/ folder are as follows:

sda1 = NTFS for my Windows Installation
sda2 = ext3 for Ubuntu
sda3 = ??? Probably my CD-ROM drive

sda5 = swap space

It's also weird to note that there is no sda4 listed, either. Any ideas?

In the meantime, I booted back into my Vista for a sec to burn a CD, and I found this out about the DVD drive:

MATSHITA DVD-RAM UJ-851S

ATA Device

Location 0 (Chaneel 0, Target 0, Lun 0)

\Device\Ide\IdeDeviceP0T0L0-0

Hardware Ids:
IDE\CdRomMATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________1.50____
IDE\MATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________1.50____
IDE\CdRomMATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________
MATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________1.50____
GenCdRom

Parent:
PCIIDE\IDEChannel\4&3a525db8&0&0

I don't know if this will help, but to me it looks like it's not a SATA device, uses an IDE controller on the PCI bus, and it's the first thing on that bus...interesting.

Here's what I've got in fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# -- This file has been automatically generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=5cdf8f33-d711-47cd-aac8-110cca74f72c / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=1f2ce904-d95f-478f-a0eb-d07bcd10a482 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/vista ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0

Well, I'm glad it can be seen at least. definitely looks like an IDE device, but again, idk what is keeping the device from mounting. There is no "hda" in the /dev/ folder, how strange is that?! So what do I mount?

my /dev/disk/by-path listing is as follows:
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part1
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part2
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part3
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part5

So fiesty sees all of my partitions, at least. Oh, I also found out that the sda3 entry was an ext3 partition that Ubuntu uses.

my /dev/disk/by-id listing is as follows:
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part1
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part2
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part3
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part5

Again, this is only my hard drive, but I wonder if the pci bus location gives anything away. this is just a shot in the dark, but maybe the DVD-ROM is at pci-0000:00:00 ??

I'm still very much a n00b, as you can see

---

