---
title: "Mouse &quot;smearing&quot; when using scroll wheel or grabbing windows."
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by therascalking13 on 2007-10-23
Hello Ubuntu community,

Long-time listener, first time caller. I'm having a particularly heinous problem with my Ubuntu system after setting up dual-head on my work laptop. I'll try to provide as much info as possible and hope someone can help. Sorry if it gets wordy, I just want all the necessary information to be here. I am reasonably versed in Linux.

I have a Dell E1505 laptop, bought last Christmas. I just upgraded to Gutsy. I have attached a Samsung 245BW 24'' widescreen monitor. I have an ATI Mobility X1300. After upgrading to Gutsy to reconfigure the dual monitoring, I now have a mouse problem. It manifests in two ways.

If I scroll using the mouse wheel on my external mouse or my my touchpad scroll line, the mouse pointer and the twenty or so pixels on each side of it are scrolled up the page, like an image had been posted in. If I scroll down a bunch, there is a line of "chunks" taken out of the display and left where the mouse was. That is, scrolling willl leave a trail of phantom mouse pointers where the mouse was going up or down the screen. If I quickly scroll up and down, I can cover parts of a window with mouse cursors pretty quickly. They don't move or anything, but to get rid of them I need to pgup/pgdn, or minimize and restore the window.

The second error, which I believe is related, happen when I grab the bar at the top of a window to drag it around. The mouse cursor and the pixels in a square around it smear as I drag the window, and then remains as an artifact when I release, similar to the previous mouse artifact problem. To reiterate, grabbing a window and dragging it up will take a square "bite" out of the window with smeared graphics and a mouse pointer artifact that remain until minimize/maximize.

Hopefully someone recognizes this and can help me. The problems are not app-specific. I'm including my xorg.conf file. Thanks a bunch in advance, and keep up the good work on ubuntu.

Cheers,
Max

XORG.CONF
===================================
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen 0	"Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Disable"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option		"AIGLX"	"off"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"dbe"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1680x1050"
	Option		"DPMS"	"true"
	Gamma		1.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Boardname	"ati"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option          "SWCursor" 	"true"
	Option		"HSync2"	"31.0 - 81.0"
	Option		"VRefresh2"	"56-75"
	Option		"MonitorLayout" "LVDS, AUTO"
	Option		"DesktopSetup"	"horizontal"
	Option		"EnablePrivateBackZ" "yes"
	Option		"Mode2"		"1900x1200"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"BlockSignalsOnLock"	"on"
	Option		"SWCursor"	"true"
	Screen		0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes	"1900x1200" "1680x1050" "1600x1024" "1440x900" "1280x800" "1280x720" "1280x768" "800x600" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

