---
title: "WPA support in 5.10 and related issues"
date: 2006-03-19
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by cthornhill on 2006-03-19
This is both a request and an observation. My hope is that this might be of some interest and use to the development team.

Like many people I have had issues with wireless support in 5.10 (Breezy). Getting basic unencrypted or WEP support has not been too bad, but WPA has just been impossible. I am a development manager myself, and I am not nontechnical, but there is only so much time I have to mess with this issue at this point.

I selected a Belkin 7010 cardbus due to the built in support for the chipset. That has worked OK, but only up to a point. Now I am very aware that some people have WPA working in this card, but clearly from the emails here many people have not, using what should be the same code and tools. It is also clear that most of the development efforts have gone to getting this WPA code to work in Dapper. Apparently the plan is to move to Network Manager, and support 'just works' wireless with WPA this way. Of course it is also apparent that Network Manager is not ready for Dapper in a full form (1.0 release level).

Here is my point: Even the current level of Network Manager is not now available for Breezy. Worse, there is not official set of tools to get WPA working with the older manager. Clearly the cards can support WPA – it is running on XP all day long. Clearly some of the code is open and available – see the boards if you don't agree. On this forum there are posted how to's that swear that WPA is native to the Ubuntu driver. There are others that say you need WPA Supplicant. Good luck getting a current WPA Supplicant though...So at this point there is no support for a release level tool in the next release, and the release has been delayed. There is no support for actual secure wireless out of the box in the current release (5.10) in the current CD's. There are multiple conflicting and contradicting posed howtos on the support board. At this point I can not use or recommend a 'just works' solution for me or for my customers to have secure wireless under Ubuntu. Worse still, the next release is supposed to be a long term release, and it is not going to fix the issue at release either.

I really do understand pushing for the code in the next release. I develop code myself, and that is a good way of being successful – fix the bugs in the next release, move on. The only problem is it won't get fixed in the next release as far as we can see, and there will be a vast number of users still on 5.10 for a long time. We are not getting updates to fix this gap, and we have no clear and stable path. If this was a little issue it would be one thing, but this is wireless network security for goodness sake!

I though our goal was to provide an open alternative to the world, and one that supported effective and secure tools. If we can not offer individuals or companies secure wireless without great pain, why would they consider using Ubuntu at this point?

I suggest that the task of getting WPA supported as a 'just works' feature must be addressed both in 5.10 and future releases. This is far too important a feature not to move to the top of the pile. There also needs to be a different approach if long term releases are to be real for Ubuntu. Resources can not just depend on moving on to the next release and expecting users to catch up. The task of backporting (support for existing and prior versions) must be moved ahead of support for future versions. Code needs to appear in existing versions at the same time or BEFORE it gets to the new version in most cases (for existing systems). Systems must be upgraded in place, not frozen and abandoned. You can not expect normal users to swap OS release versions to get core features of an OS to work. I am well aware this all depends on how you define core, but lets face it – making the OS support wireless security is pretty core in the real world today. The mindset that says we will fix it all in the next release will just not meet real world users needs for most big features.

Now we have a lot of this across the board. It is not just wireless. If you download Ubuntu 5.10 today you get a version of Firefox that is not secure. It has been patched for a heck of a while, and the release code you get with the OS still does not have the patch. You can not just apt-get and fix the issue either. That is not a reasonable situation. It is not reasonable that you can't just apt-get (well Synaptic in fact) and fix the network issues, or get MySQL 5, or many current package. the fact is existing users have to stay current, and at this point users have to do it themselves on some of the most basic packages in the Linux world. That makes little sense.

The basic bottom line for me is that upgrade of existing systems must be considered much more important that it appears to be at this point. Now I understand that the plan is for this wonderful improvement in affairs to take place with Dapper, but why should I believe it when we don't see that sort of support happening in Breezy now? I support the slowdown of the release of Dapper. In fact I think the current slowdown is very small to get the job done – I would suggest a much bigger slip – Like the man said – if you slip, slip big and get it right. Of course I defer to the people making these decisions, and I am not on the core team, so it matters very little what I think. Even so, I would believe in the plan for long term Dapper support a lot more if I saw even a little more support effort for Breezy.

Leaving areas like wireless security to blow in the wind and get picked up catch as catch can by people of good will is just not enough. I know do it yourself is a way of life for open source, but lets face it, more structure is required to have real world class software. It is vital to provide the people who contribute lots of structure and support, and not a little direction. That keeps coming up day after day when people look at projects (open or not) that make it.

I will live even with weak or absent WPA. I have gotten a draft of supplicant to work for a bit, and I will keep working on it later in this week as I have time, but there are a thousand people who won't. They and the people they work for will just look at the situation and say: Nice try Ubuntu, let us know when you are ready to go to work, for now we will use other code and pay whatever we need to, since stuff like security just has to work.  They will hold off using Ubuntu until managers can be sure the code they install is going to get regular updates all the way through a real enterprise life cycle. I think we need to show that Ubuntu can do these things by fixing what we have before we get too worried about what we will get next...

---

