---
title: "7.10 booth time 2:58min"
date: 2008-02-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by lamcro on 2008-02-11
I have an HP Pavilion ze5700 with an Ubuntu 7.10 partition.

From the moment I choose Ubuntu in the GRUB menu, to the moment the login box appears, it takes almost 3min.

I have Windows XP in the same machine, and it does not take that long.

I also had Ubuntu 7.04 and it didn't take that long.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by paul.matthijsse on 2008-02-11
> **lamcro said:**
> Any suggestions?Yes, while starting Ubuntu, as soon as you see the Ubuntu logo, type cntr-alt-F1, then you see what's going on. A known problem (sometimes) is: connecting to a time server (ntpd) that is down (or when your eth0 fails for some reason). Some days ago I noticed on my machine that it took quite some time to activate/configure (?) a newly installed copy of Sendmail. 

Btw, a normal Ubuntu boot will take less than 60 seconds. 

Hope this helps.
Paul.

---

### Post by lamcro on 2008-02-12
I tried what you said.
I think I pressed ctrl+alt+f1 too many times because the computer froze after showing /etc/rc.local

Anyway, I entered ubuntu in recovery mode and restarted it.  That seemed to solve the problem.  I will keep you posted.

Thanks,
Lester

---

### Post by VCSkier on 2008-02-12
By boot time was almost 3 mins on my laptop as well after my upgrade to 7.10 until I came across [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3635667&postcount=9") post by Orange2k.  Now I boot in under 30 seconds.  Apparently my resolution for boot time had been set incorrectly, and so during most of that 3 mins, Ubuntu was unsuccessfully trying to display upsplash.

To install StartUp-Manager, run "sudo apt-get install startupmanager" in terminal.

If that dosen't fix it, bootchart may be a useful package for you to install.  It records what processings are running during the bootup process, and when they are running.  Then you will be able to post your bootchart here, and hopefully someone can spot your problem.

To install bootchart, run "sudo apt-get install bootchart" in terminal.

Good luck.

---

### Post by lamcro on 2008-02-15
OK, I got it down to 58 seconds just by using "startupmanager".  I will try other things later, [if I am able to]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4335780#post4335780").

Thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by justleen on 2008-02-15
On my packard bell GN45-100 it takes bout 3 mins. as well. On this system it spends most of the time waiting for the wifi connection.

If change the network conf files not to start at boot, im down to 30 secs or so..

Thnx for the startupmanager tip ppl!

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2008-02-15
Alt-F1 brings up the terminal screen during boot.  Other distros use Alt-F2.

---

### Post by lamcro on 2008-02-15
**(alt+F1)**?

Someone else said **(ctrl+alt+F1)**?

---

