---
title: "Dell laptops 1420 1520 1720"
date: 2008-03-01
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by radtek on 2008-03-01
I'm considering buying a Dell with pre-installed Ubuntu. Thats how highly I regard Ubuntu linux. I've done a lot of installs and it just keeps getting better. I have two options really- I could install linux on one of the cheap racy refurbished RMA's and hope everything works.

What do you guy's think?

---

### Post by ricegf on 2008-03-02
If you believe the question is worth asking, you should probably buy Ubuntu pre-installed. This has the additional side-effect of rewarding Dell for their decision to directly sell Ubuntu pre-installed, and hastens the day when an Ubuntu-based laptop is featured on the "front page" of the Dell website.

---

### Post by bluebird1 on 2008-03-02
I was going to post very similiar question.  But were wondering from people if there are better options than Dell?  I know that System 76 is out there and wanted to know what people thought of them?  Or are there other manufactures equal or better.

I am considering new system with Ubunto pre installed on the laptop.  Currenlty using a Mac but think Linus is fun and tired of paying to keep an OS up to date,  

Also concerned with security and what people use for virus protection ( I know many might say you don't need it.).

---

### Post by linux23dragon on 2008-03-03
HI

The multiple selection pole does not work, or is not setup correctly.   Was it just me?  Or can I only select/vote only one option?

---

