---
title: "7.10 on LG freezes often, need to reboot"
date: 2008-01-17
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by hedb on 2008-01-17
I installed alongside windows Ubuntu on my laptop LG F1
everything went smooth with the installation
but
the ubuntu freezes rather often - 
everything freezes - mouse + keyboard - no response.
and i have to reboot.

I am connected wireless

There is no obvious connection to any application.

any idea?
what logs can i check?

hed

---

### Post by DrMega on 2008-01-17
What graphics hardware are you using? It is not an ATI Radeon Mobility/7000 is it?

---

### Post by hedb on 2008-01-18
looking at the device manger when it's on windows i see:
Mobile Intel(R) 945GM Express Chipset Family

would that be the video card?

hed

---

### Post by DrMega on 2008-01-18
> **hedb said:**
> looking at the device manger when it's on windows i see:
Mobile Intel(R) 945GM Express Chipset Family

would that be the video card?

hed

Possibly. In Windows if you right click a blank area of your desktop, choose Properties, then settings-> Advanced ->Adapter, it will tell you there.

The reason I asked if it was a Radeon Mobility or 7000 is because there is a problem with the Linux driver for that particular chipset which causes exactly the symptoms you describe.

---

### Post by hedb on 2008-01-18
checked it like you proposed and indeed it's my video card. (it's actually intel stuff directly on the mother board - not a distinct card)
Is the solution for this ATI card worth a try in my case?

How do i see which driver the Ubuntu is using, so maybe i can look for a suitable driver?

tnx,
hed

---

### Post by DrMega on 2008-01-18
Have a look at this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=641489]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=641489")

---

### Post by hedb on 2008-01-18
I looked into that thread:
this is how my xorg,conf looks like: (it seems not to have driver:ATI )


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by hedb on 2008-01-20
switched to the default vesa driver - which seems to be resolving the problem
but quality is not as before

it seems like movies i'll have to see on the windows side

hed

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Failsafe Device"
        Driver          "vesa"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Failsafe Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Failsafe Device"
        Monitor         "Failsafe Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    16
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   16
                Modes   "800x600"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Mr_d on 2008-02-22
Hi, I also have LG f1 express dual computer, and the same freezing problem.
I also have windows vista that works without freezing, along side linux (ubuntu 7.10).

I also have intel 945GM graphic card, but I tried to switch to VESA and the freezing problem remains. I also updated the intel drivers with ubuntu's update manager.

I have no idea what causes these freezing. I also tried to compile the latest kernel (2.6.24), and still the linux freezes after unpredictable amount of time without traceable reason.

any suggestions?

---

