---
title: "help!! cannot mount or boot windows partition"
date: 2008-01-26
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by eternal-one on 2008-01-26
accidentally damaged my win partition by shutting down abruptly after ubuntu screensaver crashed.Also I filled it up by mistake downloading too much music to it through ubuntu (nicotine) The only reason I have windows is for DJ software and Acid Pro. Now I cannot boot windows. I have critical project files there that I need. Ubuntu wont mount it and I get a blue screen when I try to boot it. Is there a way to clear my windows recycle bin within ubuntu? (maybe i need more space avail to boot it) 

Worst comes to worse any recovery apps i should try?

thanks!!

---

### Post by Herman on 2008-01-27
What kind of file system does your Windows have? FAT32 or NTFS?

Probably it needs a file system check, by the sounds of things. The best way to do that would be to run CHKDSK from a [Windows XP 'Recovery Console']("http://www.users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p18.htm#Windows_XP_Recovery_Console"), if it's Windows XP or later.
Do you have your Windows Installation disc? Or did your computer come with a 'Recovery' partition?
If it has the FAT32 file system it will be easier to fix, you can also use the Ubuntu Live CD to do that with, and go into GParted and right-click on the partition and run a file system on your FAT32 file system that way.

I don't imagine you damaged it by shutting it down after the Ubuntu screensaver 'crashed'. More likely the reason for the Ubuntu screensaver disappearing was because Ubuntu was getting ready to run a file system check on it for you, perhaps Ubuntu had already detected a problem. I'm only guessing.


Regards, Herman

---

### Post by Herman on 2008-01-27
After you run a file system check on it then you should be able to mount it okay, and you can probably find the recycle folder then and empty it if you want.

One thing to be aware of though, you should empty your trash in Ubuntu as well before you unmount your Windows file system. The reason for that is apparent when you have the file system mounted in Ubuntu and you click on 'View', and you select 'Show hidden Files'. There will be a directory named .Trash-eternal-one or whatever your username is. That may contain files you think you have deleted from your Windows partition, which still need to be deleted properly.

Also, while you're in there, take a good look around for lots of files with funny file names like they were randomly generated by some program and filled up your file system. They may be invisible in Windows but you can see them from Ubuntu. Those can fill up your file system too and make Windows become unable to boot.

Regards, Herman :)

---

