---
title: "Ubuntu Edgy practically unusable - frequent crashes"
date: 2007-02-04
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by kaam on 2007-02-04
Dear all,

I am, to my amazement and deep dissappointment, now finding Ubuntu practically unsable.  I have a Fujitsu-Siemens Lifebook C1020 laptop with the following specs:

Intel Celeron - 2.5 GHz processor
40 GB harddisk
256 MB of RAM

I've had it as a dual-boot system with Windows XP, and Ubuntu for over a year, but I've mostly use Windows.  Last month, I decided to switch completely to Linux, and but I found I had problems with Ubuntu 6.06 LTS "Dapper" freezing at random.  I decided to upgrade to Ubuntu 6.10 "Edgy", but the problem still persists.  I have hard freezes (both mouse and keyboard freezes) which require me to shutdown the machine using the power on/off button.  I even tried a update and ugrade, and reconfigured my X server without any luck.  A few minutes ago, I had a few Firefox tabs simultaneously, and just when I attempted to open a page, the computer rebooted - just like that!

I've searched all over the Web (Ubuntu forums incuded) and I am yet to find a satisfactory and definitive answer.  One posting even said (and I agree) that Edgy should not have been released at all!  For your information, my xorg.conf file follows.  What am I to do?

Thanks in advance for your help.

Katim
---------------- Start of xorg.conf file  ----------------

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]"
	Driver		"savage"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Fujitsu-Siemens C1020 Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]"
	Monitor		"Fujitsu-Siemens C1020 Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---------------------  End of xorg.conf file -------------------------------

---

### Post by kingmonkey on 2007-02-04
Random freezes are usually faulty hardware.

Insert a LiveCD or (boot it up from grub if its there)in and perform a memory test

---

### Post by theopye on 2007-02-04
Sure it is... same problem here- I've checked everything.

The Windows installs are fine, but both dapper and edgy have been giving me major problems. Sometimes I can't even get firefox to stay open long enough to post...

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-02-04
I've a new laptop and two dapper desktops. The desktops are faultless.
The laptop is an ongoing issue with edgy-everything I've tried has failed to result in reliable booting. 
1)Ndiswrapper and the Nvidia driver don't play nice.
2)ACPI sometimes stalls on boot, Noapic options have zero effect.
3)Occasional  screen corruption on gdm login manager.
4)Since bios upgrade I now have some program like xfree86 is trying to directly access hardware-stalls on boot.
5)random hard lockups
Result boot 1 in 8 :( 

If anyone has any bright Ideas my laptop is hp dv6116eu amd turion 64 bit and Nvidia 6150 go please pm me

---

### Post by allwin on 2007-02-04
Not to be a smarty pants, but...have you ever looked at your System Log to see if there is a clue as to what may be going on when the crash happens?  I too have been trying to get to the point on two desktops here where I can blow the old Windows ME away, but various usability and stability issues have stopped me from doing that.  Both are older PC's with Edgy.  Lots of WTF moments.  However, I've usually found a message of some sort coincident with most of the occurrences of problems.  Some even led to a cure in some cases.

Maybe you'll see a kernel oops, or an I/O error or something to point you in the right direction.  If you've already looked, well, never mind...

---

### Post by daedalusman on 2007-02-04
This summer I started having the same problem, linux would randomly hard crash on my, sometimes in as little as 6 mins, but in windows things seemed to be fine. What ended up being the problem was my mother board. So recently I bought a new mother board and graphics card and now I have no hard crashes at all. Hopefully this will help you diagnosis the problem.

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-02-04
thanks,the only issue I can see is an xorg issue which occurs while changing from gui to text or text to gui. 
The nightmare is the latest bios has made the problems 10 x worse. I'm struggling with how to proceed and because of so many issues it's hard to pinpoint the bugs:(

out of sheer desperation I've kept my edgy install and I'm using the feisty kernel which has resulted in 100 boot improvement, still need to sort nvidia issue, but at least i can boot

---

### Post by Moulton on 2007-02-04
My system locks up when I am keyboarding in any desktop application.

If I am not typing on the keyboard, it never freezes up.

---

### Post by jml on 2007-02-05
kaam, you seem to have a relatively new laptop.  My experience has been that laptops tend to be more difficult to get Linux working on than desktops.  While 256 megs of ram seem adequate, Its possible that Ubuntu may be taxing your system resources.  I would suggest downloading a distro that requires less resources.  Either Xubuntu, or Damn Small Linux.  These are designed to be less resource intensive.  I have found that when one distro fails, another may work well.  Another distro to consider is Mepis, the current release is based on Ubuntu.

---

### Post by closetpirate on 2007-02-05
some help for moulton 

I had a laptop have similar problems and after even a few DAYS!!!!! of messing around with it I found out that the keyboard had a problem and was push buttons on it. while i typed that would crash my system. I would recomend running ksysguard while you type and see what extra stuff pops up to see if you are initiating programs that you don't know about because of 'sticky' keys

mine turned out that the F2 key had something spilled in it or whatever and would try and load help file after help file until my machine crashed

just a suggestion

---

### Post by kaam on 2007-02-08
Dear all,

Thanks for all your responses to my posting.  I finally installed Xubuntu, and I haven't had a crash since.  Furthermore, I haven't lost much functionality or looks; indeed I dare say the Xubuntu login screen is much more pleasing than the Ubuntu one.  Again, thanks for all your help.

Katim

---

