---
title: "Video card 'gone' with laptop reboot"
date: 2006-06-12
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by mapage on 2006-06-12
I have a Toshiba Tecra M4 tablet PC.

Whenever I reboot my laptop, X won't restart and the error says that the nvidia kernel module does not appear to be receiving interrupts generated by the nvidia graphics device. 

When I power the laptop down and then restart it, X comes up fine.  One thing I noticed is that before it went wonky, the laptop would appear to power down when I rebooted it and then power up.  Now it doesn't do that.  It just reboots like a normal desktop computer.  

Apparently something goofy is going on with the video card not resetting or something.

Has anyone had any experience with this?  I can't pinpoint the time when it started.

---

### Post by 23meg on 2006-06-12
Try booting with the "irqpoll" kernel option if you haven't. Choose your kernel in the GRUB boot menu, hit e, move to the end of the kernel line (the one that goes like "/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-23-386 root=/dev/sda3 ro quiet splash" and add the word "irqpoll", hit enter, and than b.

---

### Post by mapage on 2006-06-12
Worked perfectly!  Did you know this from past experience, figure it out or find it online?  I'm trying to get better at figuring out these problems without asking.

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by 23meg on 2006-06-12
Glad it helped you; now to make it persistent, open your /boot/grub/menu.lst file and add "irqpoll" to the relevant kernel line.

I had come across this and some other kernel boot options advised for similar problems while doing searches in linuxquestions.org and linuxforums.org, and tried if it would fix my network device problems with Dapper Flight 5, and it did. I heard it may not be the most elegant fix for some problems though; but if it works for you and nothing else goes wrong, it should be fine. It also fixed the exact issue you're having for me.

I guess the problem is specific to the 8762 driver, right? Also I noticed that the problem goes away when I build my own kernel module from nvidia-kernel-source.

[QUOTE=mapage]I'm trying to get better at figuring out these problems without asking.[/QUOTE]Search, search, search. Assume that everything has been answered before.

---

