---
title: "Monitor problems =/"
date: 2005-05-23
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Tommerz on 2005-05-23
First of all, I'd just like to say thanks to any ubuntu producers who happen to read this. Ubuntu is an awesome distro, THANK YOU.

I've installed ubuntu on a really old computer that I have, and am having problems with my monitor resolution. it only displays 640x800, when in windows it displays 1024x768 at 60hz refresh rate. It's an old bog standard monitor, Daewoo 518x, and my video card is a good ole voodoo 3 (i've installed glide3 from the package menu).

Any ideas? I tried editing my x.org config file, but to no avail (couldn't work out refresh rates, and would just cause my monitor to not work as a result).

Thanks!!

---

### Post by Zelut on 2005-05-23
Did it not give you a selection of resolutions during your installation?  Mine has always come up with a selection of resolutions I would like supported (based on my video card).

Also, be careful when manually selecting resolutions & refresh rates.  Years ago I guessed on those trying to get it to work & fried my video card.

---

### Post by Tommerz on 2005-05-23
Nope, I didn't get a choice of resolutions at all. In the OS itself, i can choose between 640x800 and 320xsomething stupidly small.

in my x.org, default resolution for my colour depth is 1024x768, I tried making that the exclusive available resolution but it just put me into text mode and didn't load kdm (or at least didn't display it).

Too add insult to injury, this monitor works fine when i connect it to my laptop running ubuntu linux!!

Any ideas? Thanks for trying to help!!   :razz:

---

### Post by Zelut on 2005-05-23
After looking into it a little more it looks like the resolution option is dependent on the video card.  I don't get the option on my notebook but I do on my desktop with a nice video card.

Since you say it works on your notebook I'd say its an issue with the video card rather than the monitor.  Sounds like your notebook video card supports that resolution but the desktop doesn't..

---

### Post by Tommerz on 2005-05-23
oh right, any idea how I could fix that? 

I could post my xorg config if you wanted? Maybe I should start a new thread about voodoo 3 video cards (obsolete card I know, but great sentimental value!!)

Thanks for taking time to think about this, as you can prob tell I'm pretty new to Linux

---

### Post by Zelut on 2005-05-23
I'm not a pro with manual setup of X but go ahead & post your file & we'll see what we can do for you.

---

### Post by Tommerz on 2005-05-24
Ok, here's a copy of my x.org config. Thanks so much for helping me with this!!

______________________________________________________________________________
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
 FontPath "unix/:7100"   # local font server
 # if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
 FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
 FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
 Load "bitmap"
 Load "dbe"
 Load "ddc"
 Load "dri"
 Load "extmod"
 Load "freetype"
 Load "glx"
 Load "int10"
 Load "record"
 Load "type1"
 Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
 Driver  "keyboard"
 Option  "CoreKeyboard"
 Option  "XkbRules" "xorg"
 Option  "XkbModel" "pc105"
 Option  "XkbLayout" "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Configured Mouse"
 Driver  "mouse"
 Option  "CorePointer"
 Option  "Device"  "/dev/input/mice"
 Option  "Protocol"  "ImPS/2"
 Option  "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
 Option  "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
 Identifier "3Dfx Interactive, Inc. Voodoo 3"
 Driver  "tdfx"
 BusID  "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
 Identifier "518X"
 Option  "DPMS"

EndSection

Section "Screen"
 Identifier "Default Screen"
 Device  "3Dfx Interactive, Inc. Voodoo 3"
 Monitor  "518X"
 DefaultDepth 16
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  1
  Modes  "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  4
  Modes  "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  8
  Modes  "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  15
  Modes  "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  16
  Modes  "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  24
  Modes  "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
 EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
 Identifier "Default Layout"
 Screen  "Default Screen"
 InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
 InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
 Mode 0666
EndSection
[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by logan2004 on 2005-05-24
try

Section            "Monitor"
Identifier         "518X"
Option             "DPMS"
HorizSync        30 - 54
VertRefresh     50 - 120

EndSection

if this breaks it login to failsafe and remove those two lines

---

### Post by Tommerz on 2005-05-24
Problem solved.

Thank you very very much for helping me with this!! Now i can finally make the swap from windows  :) 

Thanks so much!

---

### Post by EnderTheThird on 2005-05-28
I'm having the same problem, only I'm completely new to Linux/Ubuntu.  I know that I have to have root privileges to modify xorg.conf, but I don't really know how to go about doing that.  I know how to get a Root Terminal, but I don't know how to get root if I'm not doing a terminal.  A little help for a helpless XP guy... please?   :???:

---

