---
title: "Samsung BlackJack"
date: 2007-01-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by LostShootingStar on 2007-01-18
Has anyone had any success doing anything with the samsung blackjack? i havnt used windows in months, but i lost my razor, and bought a blackjack. its THE best device iv ever owned, but its not very linux friendly. i cant even get it to mount because the usb-rndis drivers dont work with it.

I just ordered a bluetooth dongle for my desktop, hopefully i will be able to connect it that way!

---

### Post by LostShootingStar on 2007-01-27
well, i am able to connect the blackjack via bluetooth, and use OBEX to send/receive files.

connecting to SynCE however, i feel is just not possible. iv tried EVERYTHING. i ALMOST had it, connected as an emulated serial port using rfcomm, but it says connected, and then disconnected right away.

i cant tell if this is a problem with SynCE or the blackjack it self..i guess windows has to stay a bit longer :-(

---

### Post by jdfreshwater on 2007-03-05
I have not done it yet, but you have to use internet sharing and connect to bluetooth using pand to connect to a bluetooth network.  More later, when I get to try it.

---

### Post by jdfreshwater on 2007-03-07
Finally got it working via the USB cable that is provided.  I did it by using the Gnome PPP Program.

After you install the program and open it.
Then put in the username of [email]ISP@CINGULARGPRS.COM[/email] and Password of CINGULAR1 that has been provided to you. 
You also need to tell it to dial the number of *99#.
Go into setup and Detect modem it should bring up somthing like /dev/ttyACM0 for you.  
Uncheck the box that says wait for dial tone.  
Click on Init Strings and put in at+cgdcont=1,"IP","isp.cingular".
This should be in the first box, there may be something already there.  
Go to the Options tab and only have the box checked that says check default route.  
At this point you can close and connect. 
Note you will have to ifdown any other connections that you may have going and possibly retry to connect again, but it should dial out and let you connect.  Happy interneting.

---

### Post by jdfreshwater on 2007-03-07
I forgot to say to make sure you set your phone to modem in the usb connections portion of the phone.

---

### Post by LostShootingStar on 2007-03-18
im confused how this lets me sync anything...iv already figured out how to use it as a modem..what i want, is to sync my calendar/contacts/etc with kontact

---

### Post by ilovenicotine on 2007-03-22
I just tried using my blackjack as a usb modem on my home Ubuntu box and it fully works! I'm posting through it now. It's wicked fast...close to my Time Warner Pro package as far as loading webpages goes.  I connected then shut off eth0 and it didn't work then I reconnected and I was right on the net!

Thanks jdfreshwater!

Now to sync files in Ubuntu...

Hack The Planet!

FYI: While in USB Modem "mode" your computer does [COLOR="Red"]not[/COLOR] charge your phone's battery...:( ...maybe if you do bluetooth and plug it in to your USB port it will, have to test.

---

### Post by slacker9876 on 2007-04-05
What I did?!?! LOL, It is "working" but I have no dataflow either up nor down. It seems liek my DNS is broken because when trying to 'apt-get update' it is "Temporary error resolving ........." yet I see the connection on the taskbar and the log indicates that I have full DNS.

```
-> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Sending: at+cgdcont=1,"IP","isp.cingular"
at+cgdcont=1,"IP","isp.cingular"
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT*99#
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT*99#
CONNECT
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
--> Don't know what to do!  Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
--> Starting pppd at Thu Apr  5 09:18:01 2007
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 10373
--> Using interface ppp0
--> local  IP address 166.129.198.82
--> remote IP address 10.64.64.64
--> primary   DNS address 209.183.52.10
--> secondary DNS address 209.183.52.11

```

ifconfig shows the  ppp0 adapter is IP'ed and good to go.

Can anyone help me out? Thanks!

---

### Post by slacker9876 on 2007-04-05
/Blush

Well nothing a reboot did not fix

[/Blush]

But I do not have the "blazing fast" connectivity reported by another here, it is about comparable to dial-up access. Perhaps I am on the wrong side of the tower, none the less I have portable Internet with Ubuntu. Great posts, thanks!

---

### Post by gangalee on 2007-08-13
I've been able to mount the phone's SD card with the USB connection in USB Mass Storage Mode with ```
sudo mount /dev/sda /mnt/blackjack(or whatever mount point you make)
```

I've been able to get the modem working by switching the USB connection to Modem mode and it connects, but immediately hangs up. I can't remember if I really had it working in FL or not (switching phones), but I think it did there, but I'm here in JA now, and it doesn't work, although a RZR will.

If anyone has any tips about that or Active Sync, please let me know.
My files are at [http://techjamaica.com/forums/showpost.php?p=335114&postcount=8]("http://techjamaica.com/forums/showpost.php?p=335114&postcount=8")

---

### Post by adrian89987 on 2007-09-26
Ok I'm trying to do this using my Bluetooth on my laptop, I have feisty fawn
This is what I have tried so far:

Going to the Internet Sharing program on my Blackjack and telling it to start a Bluetooth Pan connection and then entering the following commands:
```
adrian@dog:~$ hcitool scan
Scanning ...
        00:1C:43:54:2C:5E       SGH-i607
adrian@dog:~$ pand --connect 00:1C:43:54:2C:5E --service NAP
```

My phone then asks me if I want to allow this connection, I tell it Confirm...but then it wants me to enter a passcode for the bluetooth connection. I have not selected one on my computers end so I don't know what to enter there. And if my phone is wanting to choose, I don't know how to specifiy what the code is one my computer after that anyway.

So I guess my main question would be if anyone knows how I would specify the code on my lappy. looking at all the options for the PAND command I don't see anything there that would do the trick either that or I'm just not using the specific option correctly.

also, also, according to this: [http://www.summet.com/blog/2007/01/27/using-bluetooth-pan-dun-on-samsung-blackjack-with-linux/](http://www.summet.com/blog/2007/01/27/using-bluetooth-pan-dun-on-samsung-blackjack-with-linux/)  website I am supposed to dosomething such as:
```
dhclient bnep0 
```
in order to set-up the tcp/ip, however this fails and I'm guessing the reason is due to the not knowing the passcode, but just thought I'd add that as well

Thanks for ANY help

---

### Post by gangalee on 2008-05-09
I got my modem working (I had to disable the other interfaces 1st, and start the Blackjack in Modem mode) & get Bluetooth file sharing going with a USB Bluetooth dongle, but I was wondering if it's possible to tether the Blackjack to a network through Bluetooth?

---

