---
title: "Mfc-7820"
date: 2007-04-29
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by No Whammies on 2007-04-29
I just got a new computer, installed Feisty, and hooked up a new Brother MFC-7820 scanner/printer.  Here's the problem...  The printer works great, no problems.  In fact, all the other functions work as well, ecept for the scanner!

When I searched for a connection, here's what I was told:

  # sane-find-scanner will now attempt to detect your scanner. If the
  # result is different from what you expected, first make sure your
  # scanner is powered up and properly connected to your computer.

  # No SCSI scanners found. If you expected something different, make sure that
  # you have loaded a kernel SCSI driver for your SCSI adapter.

found USB scanner (vendor=0x04f9, product=0x0181) at libusb:002:006
  # Your USB scanner was (probably) detected. It may or may not be supported by
  # SANE. Try scanimage -L and read the backend's manpage.

  # Not checking for parallel port scanners.

  # Most Scanners connected to the parallel port or other proprietary ports
  # can't be detected by this program.



Apparently, it needs a driver for the scanner portion, but all the drivers I've seen for this were for i386, not AMD 64.  So, what now?  Is there a possibility this driver will be offered for Feisty, or at the very least can someone modify one of the Edgy64 drivers to work with Feisty (preferably in .deb form)?  I don't want to get rid of this machine, as it is the best printer I've ever used.  I'd just like to use the scanner as well.

---

### Post by No Whammies on 2007-04-30
Any ideas, guys?  Or should I just bite the bullet and get a little flatbed scanner to tide me over until the Feisty gets the driver?

---

