---
title: "Troubleshooting the Dell Inspiron 5100 on Gutsy Thread..."
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by bornagainpenguin on 2007-10-18
Hi guys!

I just installed Gutsy Gibbon on my Dell Inspiron 5100.  What a disappointment compared to Feisty Fawn!  Whereas Feisty was able to run everything out of the box more or less on defaults (had to change a few lines in xorg.conf to improve speed) Gutsy has me stuck on VESA mode!  I'm sure there have got to be other disappointed users with Inspiron 5100s, so this is a thread for all of us to tweak our way back towards usability....

First up, slowness in booting...

> **mahousaru said:**
> Sounds like your usplash settings are messed up.

Check /etc/usplash.conf

xres=1024                                                                                                                    
yres=768 

Should match what ever your screen supports, if it doesn't then this is causing the problem and needs to be changed.

Once you have changed it u need to update the theme with

```

sudo update-usplash-theme usplash-theme-ubuntu

```

Another thing you should also do is:

> **gaburko said:**
> Hi guys, firs post for me here.
So, I installed Ubuntu 7.10 yesterday on a relatively OK laptop - 2 Ghz, 2 GB RAM, X1300 128 MB Video. Aaaaanyway - what immediately striked me was the slow boot. 
since I have a dual-boot (Vista) I played a little with the menu.lst - I wanted Vista to be the default. However, the change that "did it" for me was the following:

original

```

title		Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root		(hd0,6)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=63d6696a-ee49-4735-ae70-c1fe14dfdf70[COLOR="Red"] ro quiet splash[/COLOR]
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
[COLOR="Red"]quiet[/COLOR]


```

now
```

title		Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root		(hd0,6)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=63d6696a-ee49-4735-ae70-c1fe14dfdf70
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic

```


simply remove "ro quiet splash" and "quiet"

dunno why, but it works - boots in about a minute -)

Cheers

Keep in mind moshuptrail's warning though...

> **moshuptrail said:**
> This is great!
BUT, a note of caution to all...
If you get a kernel update, the updater does not copy the kernel line parameters.  You will need to re-apply the vga=791 each time there is a kernel update.  I don't know about the usplash.conf file.  So keep a link to this post so you can look up the fix after the next kernel release! :)

Personally I keep the splash and only remove the ro and quiet commands.  I find it works well enough for me that way.

Next for the video display...

I have an ATI Radeon Mobility M7 (LW) with 32mbs of ram on it.  

I managed to wade through the various options and etc used in my old Feisty Fawn xorg.conf and find settings that worked!  Compiz is amazing!!

```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"LVDSBiosNativeMode" "false"
	Option		"GARTSize" "64"
	Option		"AGPSize" "64"
	Option		"AGPMode" "4"
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
	Option		"AGPMode" "8"
	Option		"AGPFastWrite" "True"
	Option		"EnablePageFlip" "true"
	Option		"EnableDepthMoves" "true"
	Option		"UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	Option		"BackingStore" "on"
	Option		"UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	Option		"DMAForXv" "true"
	Option		"AccelMethod" "XAA"
	Option		"ColorTiling" "on"
	Option		"AccelDFS" "true"
	Option		"TripleBuffer" "true"
	Option		"DynamicClocks" "on"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	Option		"AIGLX" "true"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
```

**NOTE:** The original post had the "DefaultDepth 16" I've since changed that to "DefaultDepth 24" because not running at 24 was causing me to have all sorts of issues when trying to play videos.

Third issue, HEAT!

**Update!**

There was a thread about this in the [Ubuntu-users List](http://readlist.com/lists/lists.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-users/11/57122.html) that suggests the issue is caused by a combination of the new desktop search "tracker" and not having i8kutils installed right...

The "tracker" can be fixed by:

> **Paul S]My laptop also got real hot after I installed gutsy. I couldn't figure
out why, but finally got gkrellm running and noticed the cpu running
near 100% all the time. Turns out the new desktop search feature
"tracker" was the culprit. Once I turned it off by menu System >
Preferences > Indexing Preferences, my cpu dropped to low and the
temperature came back to normal.[/quote]

Then for i8k (to run your fans)...

[QUOTE=toorima said:**
> I recommend installing gkrellm and the gkrellm-i8k plugin, lets you set at what temps the fans should go on and off and also gives you info about temps etc

if you get an error with i8k you must do the following
sudo modprobe i8k force=1
sudo gedit /etc/modules
add the following line to the end of the file: i8k force=1

Fifth issue overall slowness in the system.

I had previously recommended the zen kernel here as a solution for slowness, but unfortunately the zen kernel hasn't worked well for me in some time...if only I could go back to the earlier version that *did* work...alas being security-minded prevents me from doing so.  I recommend Inspiron 5100 users give the Hardy Heron kernel a shot in Gutsy Gibbon.  You can find more information about that [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=646755").

--bornagainpenguin

---

### Post by Gunner_Sr on 2007-10-19
Where can I find the list of different options for i8k?

Thanks.

---

### Post by engwalker on 2007-10-20
Im not sure what kind of problems you were having to make you stick with vesa, but I have an inspiron 5100 with the 32mb m7 video card in it too. Everything was kind of shivering and shifted to the left and I just found a fix that let me use the ati driver again. I actually hadnt updated since tribe 2 I beleive because of the problem. If you edit xorg.conf under devices add the line ```
Option "LVDSBiosNativeMode" "FALSE"
``` and it fixed my problem completely. glxgears is giving me ~1100fps and everything is working again. found the fix here:[http://www.rickycampbell.com/2007/10/04/ati-driver-fixed-and-ready-for-inclusion-to-gutsy/]("http://www.rickycampbell.com/2007/10/04/ati-driver-fixed-and-ready-for-inclusion-to-gutsy/")

---

### Post by Joe Beam on 2007-10-31
Thank you engwalker,

I was going insane trying to get my Inspiron 5100 with xubuntu back to 1024x768.

```
Option "LVDSBiosNativeMode" "FALSE" 
```

worked like magic. 

This new screens & graphics applet is useless!

---

### Post by landounity on 2007-11-13
Can anyone get the S-video tv out working?  I have tried 500 different approaches with no luck.  I have concluded from the posts that it has to do with the driver and the xorg.conf...but that is as far as I have come.  

My wife is telling me that I should go back to windows because I spend too much time with all of these bugs (her vista system plugs right into the tv with no problem at all).  I am so terribly upset that I upgraded from Feisty!  As far as I can tell Gutsy does not seem ready.

---

### Post by bornagainpenguin on 2007-12-21
:guitar: Finally managed to get Gutsy behaving on my Inspiron 5100!  Some new tips added to the top post and my xorg.conf posted so others can give it a try...  NOTE: YMMV, use all advice at your own risk!

--bornagainpenguin

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2007-12-24
Dude this totally works.  I went from 200-300fps to 1140fps in glxgears.  Sweet.  Thanks man, don't know why nothing else worked.

EDIT

I actually meant more like 1400fps.  However, when I run glxinfo I still get no direct rendering.  So what does yours say?  I like the better framerate, but is there any way to get 3D from the card working?

/EDIT

---

### Post by bornagainpenguin on 2008-01-11
That's funny it always comes up as direct rendering for me...

Did you try installing driconf?

--bornagainpenguin

PS: Sorry for not having seen this post sooner!

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-01-12
Not a problem dude.  I did and when I tried to run it it said that I didn't have the radeon driver installed.  I think I'll try running dpkg-reconfigure on xserver and see if that works.  If you have any suggestions I'd be willing to try.  Thanks man.

---

### Post by daytimer045 on 2008-01-20
This solution worked perfectly for me with Gutsy on my Dell Inspiron 5100.  

I started with Gutsy server, then added the GNOME X Windows environment.

Found this post, and replaced the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file with the version given in this thread.

Dell displayed login screen on restart.

Thanks for the quick solution.

---

### Post by the_bengine on 2008-02-02
Another happy customer here too.
Cheers guys.

Was sick to death of the driver refusing to shift from 'vesa'. 
I just copied a couple of chunks from bornagainpenguin's xorg.conf and rebooted.
i can now set System->Preferences-> Appearance: Visual Effects to Normal.

oooh. look at how some of the windows are slightly transparent....

---

### Post by jodydewey on 2008-02-18
I have done all of the recommendations everyone has posted to this thread.  My video driver is now the Radeon one but the visual effects will not switch to anything but none.  It tries when I click the radio button but comes back unable to switch.  Any ideas?  Also, has anyone figured out how to get the vga and svideo ports to work?  Maybe they work right now but I don't know how to switch to them to try it out.  Help!!!!

By the way, thanks for the posts!   I am very new to Gutsy and I don't know how to fix problems.  I bookmark every one of your solutions so I can reference them.


Jody

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-18
Yeah, I could never get Compiz to run.  I had about 1400fps, but no Compiz.  Not sure how to.  Unfortunately my mobo crashed on that laptop so I can't experiment on it anymore.  Well, at least until I get that fixed.

If I do and find anything I'll post it here for sure.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-02-18
@jody & josh
The first part of your /usr/bin/compiz file (after the comments) probably looks like this:
```
COMPIZ_BIN_PATH="/usr/local/bin/" # For window decorators and compiz
PLUGIN_PATH="/usr/local/lib/compiz/" 
GLXINFO="/usr/bin/glxinfo"
KWIN="/usr/bin/kwin"
METACITY="/usr/bin/metacity"
COMPIZ_NAME="compiz" # Final name for compiz (compiz.real) 
```
It needs to look like this (changes bolded):
```
COMPIZ_BIN_PATH="**/usr/bin/**" # For window decorators and compiz
PLUGIN_PATH="**/usr/lib/compiz/**" 
GLXINFO="/usr/bin/glxinfo"
KWIN="/usr/bin/kwin"
METACITY="/usr/bin/metacity"
COMPIZ_NAME="**compiz.real**" # Final name for compiz (compiz.real)
```

Now type compiz in a terminal. What happens?

---

### Post by veniatregnum on 2008-02-26
Hey all,

I've been using Gutsy on Xubuntu on my Dell 5100 for a while now - I was abler to get 3D rendering (and with it compiz and higher fps) for the Radeon Mobility 7500 following the appropriate steps on [this guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver"). 

Hope it helps

---

### Post by Cold Day on 2008-03-11
Bornagainpenguin,

Man, thanks so much for these fantastic advices! Your thread solved so many problems and alowed me to finally use my Dell i5100 with ubuntu 7.10. I have several questions for you and other 5100 guys:

1. I have a big problem with cdrdao (and, as a consequence, with gnome-baker etc.). It simply can't read audio-cds. I tried everything: old versions, compiling from source. Nothing. You can read the details here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=719167](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=719167).

2. Overheating. I followed the advice and deinstalled tracker. This was great, the idle temperature dropped more than 10C! However, it's still very high. When idle, it's around 55-60C; when skype-ing it's around 72C and when compiling 76!!! Not good. I'm aware of "dust heatsink problem", but I guess something can be done on the software level. Can someone post his/her i8k fan coniguration? (My BIOS is A32.)

3. CPU throttling and disk activity. I tried to measure hard disk temperature using smartmontools and hddtemp ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=282353](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=282353)); it's (I think and afraid) very high; around 60C. So I guess that processor throttling can help a bit, as well as the feature of slowing down disk activity in idle times. Can someone else say something about this?

Thank you in advance!

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-03-11
Well, one thing to remember about this laptop Cold Day is that it runs the Pentium 4.  That is notoriously a hot processor.  Unless you start having shutdown problems related to heat, you should be okay.  It may get hot sometimes, but those temps sound about right for a P4.

---

### Post by Cold Day on 2008-03-12
> **JoshuaRL said:**
> Well, one thing to remember about this laptop Cold Day is that it runs the Pentium 4.  That is notoriously a hot processor.  Unless you start having shutdown problems related to heat, you should be okay.  It may get hot sometimes, but those temps sound about right for a P4.

Thanks JoshuaRL! That's good to know; actually it seems that windows users of this laptop are simply not aware of how hot it can be. (And no, I haven't experienced shutdowns.)

However, can you also confirm that temperature of my hard disk is ok as well (as reported by smartmontools -- smartctl -A /dev/sda)? I thought that everything above 40-45 Celsius degrees is a reason for a big concern. What do you think about this:

sudo smartctl -A /dev/sda
...
194 Temperature_Celsius     0x0022   058   028   000    Old_age   Always       -       60 (Lifetime Min/Max 15/77)

If this is normal as well, I can be a happy man again :)

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-03-14
Sorry dude, I'm not really sure.  My motherboard crashed, and until I get that fixed it won't even POST to BIOS.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-03-15
Cold Day,
If your HD uses SMART, you can probably monitor its temp with:
```
sudo apt-get install hddtemp sensors-applet
```
Then, right-click in an empty spot on the top or bottom bar (any GNOME panel) and select 'Add to Panel..'
Under the System & Hardware group, there should be a Hardware Sensors Monitor. Add that, and right-click it and select 'Preferences'. Go to the 'Sensors' tab. Pull down the hddtemp tree and hopefully, your hard disk will be listed there with a checkbox to enable it.

Note: If you're using Kubuntu, things will be similar, but use ksensors instead of sensors-applet.

---

### Post by Cold Day on 2008-03-21
Temüjin, thanks for the answer. As I said, I used hddtemp, which reads the same SMART data as smartmontools (smartctl) does. As these tools say, my hard disk's temperature is around 60C, and SMART logs say that the highest temperature ever was 75. I asked other Inspiron 5100 users to post their temperatures because, as far as I know, every temperature >45-50C is a reason for concern.

Anyway, thank you very much for the method how to display the hddtemp on the panel, I didn't know it. Used conky for that purpose.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-03-23
Yeah, I'm guessing that your hard disk is probably running at 60C because of the P4 dumping heat into the small space. Laptop HD's are usually rated to 55 or 60C, so hopefully, your HD's life won't be reduced significantly if you can keep it at 60C (75C is another story).

I don't think there's a whole lot you can do short of keeping the internals dust-free and the ventilation holes unobstructed.

---

### Post by kiscsiga on 2008-03-23
> **JoshuaRL said:**
> Yeah, I could never get Compiz to run.  I had about 1400fps, but no Compiz. 

Hi!
First of all, thanks for bornagainpenguin for his suggestions!
I also use a DELL Inspiron 5100 with ATI Mobility Radeon M7 LW, I installed Gutsy, and now I changed the xorg.conf to the one in the first post. Now the compiz is working (previously never worked before, neither with Feisty), but with glxgears I can only reach ~280FPS, and the performance of the 3D applications like Google Earth isn't quite impressive either.
How can you reach 1400 FPS? Did you tune the driconf?
By the way, I use the default kernel that came with ubuntu, and not the "Zen" kernel, you suggested. Does it also influence the 3-D-performance?
Regards,
KisCsiga

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-03-23
Well, I never got Compiz to work.  On that card I bet that the reason your FPS in glxgears is low is because you've got it working.  Try turning off desktop effects and see what you get.

The problem with glxgears is that it's unreliable.  It's a good basic test, but as far as a true benchmark, no.  For instance, you can get massively different results if you let it run without doing anything and if you let it run while switching to another desktop.  If you're sure to not overlay the window, leave Compiz off, stay on the same desktop, and leave the mouse alone (exit glxgears with ESC) then you can get a halfway accurate result.

And no, I couldn't get driconf working either.  In my xorg.conf it had the DRI driver, and a bunch of tweaks that were specific to DRI, but driconf said that I didn't have the DRI drivers installed correctly.  I've heard you can get this card up to ~2000FPS with it though.

The thing to remember is that this is an older and poorly supported card.  It can only do so much in the best of times, and it's pretty hard to get it there.

---

### Post by bornagainpenguin on 2008-04-04
> **kiscsiga said:**
> Hi!
First of all, thanks for bornagainpenguin for his suggestions!
I also use a DELL Inspiron 5100 with ATI Mobility Radeon M7 LW, I installed Gutsy, and now I changed the xorg.conf to the one in the first post. Now the compiz is working (previously never worked before, neither with Feisty), but with glxgears I can only reach ~280FPS, and the performance of the 3D applications like Google Earth isn't quite impressive either.
How can you reach 1400 FPS? Did you tune the driconf?
By the way, I use the default kernel that came with ubuntu, and not the "Zen" kernel, you suggested. Does it also influence the 3-D-performance?
Regards,
KisCsiga

I have since updated my first post to rescind my suggestion to use the zen kernel.  At one point earlier in its development it was amazing, however as the development went on a combination of zen incompatibilities and Ubuntu updates made using it impossible.  I have since moved to the Hardy kernel on Gutsy, which I included a link to in the first post.  As for FPS, I used DRIconf 0.9.1 with HyperZ on to boost performance and that seems to work well for me.

With my color depth at 24 these days (was having too many issues with videos playing so I switched back to a higher color depth) I currently get:

Windowed:
```
4405 frames in 5.0 seconds = 880.949 FPS
4415 frames in 5.0 seconds = 882.889 FPS
4451 frames in 5.0 seconds = 890.164 FPS
```

Maximized:
```
799 frames in 5.0 seconds = 159.664 FPS
880 frames in 5.0 seconds = 175.837 FPS
1074 frames in 5.0 seconds = 214.776 FPS
```

Not great but then again not bad either....as others have pointed out its an older video card.  I think given its limitations its performing quite well actually!

--bornagainpenguin (hoping this has helped some)

PS: You should be able to find DRIconf 0.9.1 in Synaptics.  Good luck!

---

### Post by bornagainpenguin on 2008-04-04
> **JoshuaRL said:**
> And no, I couldn't get driconf working either.  In my xorg.conf it had the DRI driver, and a bunch of tweaks that were specific to DRI, but driconf said that I didn't have the DRI drivers installed correctly.  I've heard you can get this card up to ~2000FPS with it though.

Isn't it possible your errors were caused by the DRI tweaks?  Did you try using the xorg.conf I included in my first post (assuming you're running a Dell Inspiron 5100)?  

--bornagainpenguin

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-04-04
> **bornagainpenguin said:**
> Isn't it possible your errors were caused by the DRI tweaks?  Did you try using the xorg.conf I included in my first post (assuming you're running a Dell Inspiron 5100)?  

--bornagainpenguin

Very well could be, I'm not able to do anything right now since it won't POST.  I really wish I could get it working so I could try out these suggestions though.  I had added your xorg.conf tweaks, plus some others on a couple other threads to mine before I tried to use driconf.

---

### Post by bornagainpenguin on 2008-04-04
> **JoshuaRL said:**
> Very well could be, I'm not able to do anything right now since it won't POST.

What exactly do you mean by your Inspiron 5100 won't POST?

--bornagainpenguin

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-04-04
Power On Self Test.  I get the dreaded double beep, memory issues.  No matter what RAM I use I get that.

---

### Post by bornagainpenguin on 2008-04-05
> **JoshuaRL said:**
> Power On Self Test.  I get the dreaded double beep, memory issues.  No matter what RAM I use I get that.

I know what POST means, I just wasn't sure if you knew what it meant and didn't want to write a whole long post making potentially false assumptions about you.

Yeah that definitely sounds like your Inspiron 5100 gave up the ghost... You'll have to decide if you think its worth putting more effort into trying to send it somewhere for fixing or to throw in the towel on it and move on to something else.  Shame, really it is...

The Inspiron 5100 has proven itself to be one of the best laptops I've ever used despite the albatross desktop processor that Dell shackled it with.  What other Laptop do you know of that can run Windows XP, MacOS X, and Linux with almost 100% compatibility across the board? 

Good luck whatever you do!  If you do manage to diagnose what exactly is causing POST to not run and fix it, please feel free to share it here!  It might help someone else with the same problems!

--bornagainpenguin

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-04-05
Yeah, if I ever get a little disposable income I may just take it somewhere to be checked out.  I've tracked it down to either a bad memory controller (whole board replace at ~$200) or a bad memory slot or two (a few dollars and I'm up and running).

The thing that holds me back is that I have a nice new AMD Athlon X2 64bit desktop with 2gb @ 800mhz sitting at home with Ubuntu installed all nice and pretty.  So I really don't have a necessity to get it fixed.  But I cut my teeth on this laptop and will always have a soft spot in my heart for it.  I really hope I can get it going some time soon.

---

### Post by bornagainpenguin on 2008-04-25
This thread has moved, please continue any Inspiron 5100 related stuff [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4790762")...

Thanks!

--bornagainpenguin

---

