---
title: "KDE  keeps crashing"
date: 2005-10-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by zac851 on 2005-10-05
I'm running the AMD64 bit version.  For some reason....atleats 4-5 times a day.  THe whole interface  crashes and goes to what the picture you see at the bottom and  wont do anything.   What would cause this.   Its really annoying.   I get tired of signing off and logging back in evertime this happens then have to open everthing back up tha twas running.   My video card is a Geforce 6600.  OTher than when it crashes the display works perfect.  What woudl cause something like this.

[img]http://www.turboinduction.com/misc/screen.jpg[/img]

---

### Post by tseliot on 2005-10-05
Open terminal and type "sudo kate /etc/X11/xorg.conf" and post the content of the file (copy it and paste it here)

OR "sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf"

I'm asking you this file because I need to know if you are using nvidia proprietary drivers o the open source ones (which come with Ubuntu by default). I had some graphical corruptions with a Geforce 6200 TC PCI-E and I solved the problem by installing nvidia drivers 7667. You can use my guide for that (look at my signature below)

---

### Post by zac851 on 2005-10-05
I'm going to installed the regular 32bit version instead of this new 64bit one and seee what happens.  I'll report back if its doing the same thing.

---

### Post by zac851 on 2005-10-06
OK I reinstalled the 32 bit version and its still crashing.   Heres the log from the file

What do ya think?

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Neovo f-419"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	24-80
	VertRefresh	50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600]"
	Monitor		"Neovo f-419"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


---

### Post by zac851 on 2005-10-06
Soon as I get off work I'm going to install the drivers off of your HOW TO page.  Forgive me if this is a dumb questions  But I went to the link you provided in your HOW TO ([http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html)) and I don't see a 7667 version.  All I see is a 7676 version which you state isnt very stable, so I don't want that one, a 5336 and a 0306 version which you don't mention anything about.  Where is the 7667 version located??  Thanks.

---

### Post by TDKBacke on 2005-10-06
@zac851:
You've got to click on "archive" to get access to the old versions.

---

### Post by eddy-v on 2005-10-16
I have the exact same issue. For a long time I thought it was due to a xorg bug, but I now really think it's nvidia 6600 PCI-E card.

Only linux that works for me without funny X after a while is gentoo.
I use nvidia driver version 1.0.6629 (this is stable in gentoo).
(Xorg 6.8.2 and KDE 3.4.1.)

I had this issue with SuSE 9.2 and with Kubuntu (5.04 and 5.10).
I dont use gnome so I dont know if it happends in gnome.
In SuSE i used nv and nvidia driver. They both had the issue. I haven't experimented in Kubuntu yet.

---

### Post by OBnascar on 2005-10-16
I had to give up on Kubuntu 5.04 also, same results of crashing all the time and went back to ubuntu 5.04. Suse 9.3 and Linspire five-o both run great though.

---

### Post by tseliot on 2005-10-17
[QUOTE=TDKBacke]@zac851:
You've got to click on "archive" to get access to the old versions.[/QUOTE]
That's right.

Installing the nvidia driver would solve your problem.

---

