---
title: "4 keyboard keys not working...?   :S"
date: 2006-04-10
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by djgenesis on 2006-04-10
When i boot up, the keys:
"zxcvb" are not working ! All the other keys are working normally but these 5 are not.

When i go to System--> Preferences --> Keyboard --> Layout --> 
and from "Generic 102-key (Intl) PC"  i change it to anything else, such as 
"Generic 105-key (Intl) PC" they start working normally. 
At the next X restart, the same keys are not working untill i change the layout.
My xorg.conf is attached.

Help! :-?  ?

---

### Post by jkeyes0 on 2006-04-10
[QUOTE=djgenesis]When i boot up, the keys:
"zxcvb" are not working ! All the other keys are working normally but these 5 are not.

When i go to System--> Preferences --> Keyboard --> Layout --> 
and from "Generic 102-key (Intl) PC"  i change it to anything else, such as 
"Generic 105-key (Intl) PC" they start working normally. 
At the next X restart, the same keys are not working untill i change the layout.
My xorg.conf is attached.

Help! :-?  ?[/QUOTE]

I believe it has something to do with 
```
Option "XkbModel"	"pc101"
```
Might try changing that to pc104 or pc105? (I'm not certain on the codes...)
You might do an fglrxconfig again and make sure to select the pc104 or pc105 keyboard instead of pc101

---

### Post by djgenesis on 2006-04-10
Nope, changed it to 105, restarted the xserver and same old same old.
:(

---

### Post by greenpenguin on 2006-04-10
Stupid question... does your keyboard actually work? Try a different keyboard/distro (Knoppix?) just in case :)

---

### Post by jkeyes0 on 2006-04-10
[QUOTE=djgenesis]Nope, changed it to 105, restarted the xserver and same old same old.
:([/QUOTE]

I've heard nothing but bad things about using fglrxconfig to set up the xorg.conf file. Have you tried using
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

to generate a default xorg.conf file? (I think you have to run it from the /etc/X11 directory for it to generate the xorg.conf file in the appropriate location). Note: this might affect your ATI video card settings, so you may have to merge some settings from the original xorg.conf (fglrxconfig generated) with the xorg.conf generated by the dpkg-reconfigure.

---

### Post by djgenesis on 2006-04-10
[quote=greenpenguin]Stupid question... does your keyboard actually work? Try a different keyboard/distro (Knoppix?) just in case[/quote]
he he he ... of course!

[quote=jkeyes0]sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg[/quote]
That didn't help either. I ran the config and i did something wrong so my X wouldn't start. Therefore i copied only the keyboard entries off the new xorg.conf and i replaced it into my old one. 
Nothing happened. I have exaclty the same problem.


Maybe i should focus more on this ? 
```

**********************************************************************
# Core keyboard's InputDevice section
# **********************************************************************



Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Keyboard1"
        Driver          "keyboard"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "gb"
        Option          "AutoRepeat"    "500 30"
EndSection


``` 

and the server:

```

Section "ServerLayout"

   Identifier  "Server Layout"


   Screen "Screen0"


   InputDevice "Mouse1" "CorePointer"
   InputDevice "Keyboard1" "CoreKeyboard"
 EndSection

```



Anyone?

---

### Post by djgenesis on 2006-04-10
By the way, 
When i change the keyboard layout, the keys start working again untill the next Xserver restart. I don't know if i made it clear on my first post. 

Say for example I have the layout on 105 keys 
```

--> Restart 
       --> Keys not working
           --> Change layout 104
             --> Keys working
                -->Restart
                 -->Keys not working 
                   --> Change layout 105
                      -->Keys working

```

---

### Post by fernandomaioli on 2006-04-10
Try this: sudo setxkbmap -model pc102 -layout us -variant intl
Works with Logitech Media Keyboard. Good luck.

---

### Post by jkeyes0 on 2006-04-11
That was actually going to be my next question, was about the
```
Option          "XkbLayout"     "gb"
```. Are you in england?

---

### Post by djgenesis on 2006-04-11
Jkeyes0: Yes i am in London

Fernandomaioli: 
I tried ```
sudo setxkbmap -model pc102 -layout us -variant intl
``` but no luck. Same problem .... aaaaw.. this is getting frustrating..

---

### Post by taux on 2006-11-07
Hi,

I had the same problem. For me key 'n' was not working. But i solved it. Here is how i did it:

First launch 'xev' and try pressing your not working keys, see if event tester catches them and write down their keycodes. For me xev captured the 'n' key, just XlookupString seemed to return 0 bytes.

To fix this:

Create a file .xmodmaprc in your home directory
edit this file and map your keys like this:

keycode <keycode> = <key>

for example

keycode 57 = n

Nex time you restart your computer your keys will be working:) Also you can apply changes at once with:

xmodmap ~/.xmodmaprc

---

