---
title: "Refresh rate problem"
date: 2005-05-24
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by jarav on 2005-05-24
Hi,

I have a problem which somewhat confuses me. I've installed Hoary today, but I can't login because some crazy (now 160, but sometimes more than 200Hz) refresh rate is selected. 

Here's what happens: 

before gdm is loaded the screen changes resolution, but stays blank, then the floppy blinks and the screen changes resolution AGAIN (why?). Then my monitor displays message that refresh rate is out of range. The gdm is obviously loaded, I can hear the ubuntu login sound. I figured out that when I press ctrl-alt-backspace, that the gdm restarts, and now in correct refresh rate specified in xorg.conf (1280x1024@85Hz). It almost seems that it ignores xorg.conf on the first try. I have both tried to edit xorg.conf manually and install the nvidia drivers, but nothing seems to help. What's wrong? By the way the monitor is AOC Spectrum 7Glr+ and the graphic card nvidia gForce4 MX440, nothing exotic.

I'm kind of disappointed with ubuntu now, after great experiences with warty. I hope someone will be able to help me out.

Thanks, J.

-------------------------------
Here's my xorg.conf. It's possible that I have some stupid mistake in it, but it didn't
work to start with anyway. HorizSync and VertRefresh lines weren't in original xorg.conf - I wonder if its normal?

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load "GLcore"
	Load "bitmap"
	Load "dbe"
	Load "ddc"
	Load "dri"
	Load "extmod"
	Load "freetype"
	Load "glx"
	Load "int10"
	Load "record"
	Load "speedo"
	Load "type1"
	Load "v4l"
	Load "vbe"
	Load "xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"cz"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
 	Option "NoLogo"
	Option "RenderAccel" "true"
	Option "NvAGP" "1"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"AOC Spectrum"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-95
	VertRefresh	85
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x]"
	Monitor		"AOC Spectrum"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Dogmeat on 2005-05-24
```
HorizSync 30-95
VertRefresh 85
```

Did you change your monitor frequencies? It looks like you changed VertRefresh to 85hz because you want your monitor to work at 85hz, but it doesn't work like that. You  must have a range there, as in HorizSync, look in your monitor's manual or do a google search for your monitor's horiz/vert frequencies (this is very important) and  put the ranges in there.

If you want more resolutions at the best refresh rate your monitor can give you, you must add ModeLines. Heres what mine looks like:

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV25 [GeForce4 Ti 4200]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option "IgnoreEDID" "true"
	Option "NoLogo"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Phillips 107 MB"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-86
	VertRefresh	50-160
	**ModeLine "1024x768" 120.59 1024 1072 1312 1408 768 770 782 808 #106Hz**
	
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV25 [GeForce4 Ti 4200]"
	Monitor		"Phillips 107 MB"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

As you can see, i get 1024x768 at 106hz (I don't really use 800x600 so I didn't bother to add its modeline)

Don't add mine as it is different for every monitor. You can find out which modeline you should put there by getting a program called videogen:

```
sudo apt-get install videogen
```

You give the program the maximum dot pitch (if you have a new monitor/graphic card you can use 200 or 300 here), your monitor's horizontal/vertical frequencies and the resolutions you want, and the program tells you your modelines!  :smile:

---

### Post by jarav on 2005-05-24
I tought you CAN use single number as well as range in VertRefresh. Actually I have tried both range according to my monitor's manual and just one number and both didn´t work. I'll try the modeline, but I suspect that xorg probes my monitor and tries to set the highest possible refresh rate (which obviously doesn't work) and after I kill and restart gdm it looks into xorg.conf and sets the specified 1280x1024@85Hz proprerly.

---

