---
title: "problems in live cd (probably installation as well)"
date: 2008-03-20
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by yssida on 2008-03-20
Hello everybody, I've just tried out the live CD today, however the menu bars don't seem to be working properly. 

THe image
[[IMG]http://img296.imageshack.us/img296/7176/screenshotlz4.th.png[/IMG]](http://img296.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotlz4.png)

My laptop is a Toshiba Portege M600. THere isn't any sound either, have tried changing the sound settings to no avail. I also cannot activat visual effects. I currently use Windows Vista and plan to dual boot. I've shrunk its partition and now I have 48 gigabytes free space. Should I go ahead and use the 'USe the largest continuous free space' , or should I do it manually (Which I already tried to do and left me more confused.)

Thank you so much for taking the time to read this.

Sorry, I know I posted on the other forum, but I thought this was more appropriateso I posted it here.

---

### Post by HanaD on 2008-03-20
can you say what exactly is th e problem with menu bar?
Also what is the problem that you are facing on live cd....
remember that the effects and all can be enabled once you install Ubuntu to your harddrive.....as far as i know..
also if you say use largest partition then it will install ubuntu on the largest drive on your comp. erasing anything on it,.... Mostly the vista should be installed on that, so if you want a daul boot machine do not use that option,

Instead use manual option to partition your harddrive,
the space you say is free 48 GB, partition that into swap ...say 1 gb and rest to root (/).
select this root partition type as ext3 or reiser and format it..
follow the steps fiurther and you are done installing Ubuntu on harddisk on your PC.
once done you will be asked to either keep using live cd or restart your system,

restart it and enable desktop effects...

Enjoy!

Hana

---

### Post by yssida on 2008-03-21
I took the plunge, something went awfully awry on my vista installaton (not an ubuntu problem though), it won't detect the vista partitions after I had used a data recovery tool. So I'm left with Ubuntu only, and I couldn't be happier. Desktop effects still couldn't be enabled, there is no sound. But everything seems to work fine, if not better. Still there is that sound and effects problem. I need to be able to have sound. Really really need. Effects are a big plus as well.

SO I did the xorg.conf thing, that I read about in other forums. Thanks :)
here is the result
choking@archangel:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Generic Video Card"
        Driver          "vesa"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-70
        VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by yssida on 2008-03-21
----

---

### Post by HanaD on 2008-03-21
I think your Lappy is installed with Intel 965 chipset, 
I do not htink you would be able to enalbe desktop effects for now, since the drivers for the same are blacklisted. though there are posts to enable it but i do not suggest to do that,

Regardsing sound, do you mean you arent able to hear even the login and logout sound or us u that you arent able to play your MP3's

to play mp3 you will need to install restricted codecs, if you do no thear the login and logout sound then i guess you'd need to research more, i do not know, and have not encountered this problem as yet, so cant help on that.,

Regards,
Hana

---

### Post by yssida on 2008-03-22
Why is it blacklised? :(

I can't hear a sound at all. No login and logout, no mp3, no ogg...:(

---

### Post by HanaD on 2008-03-22
blacklisted because the drivers cause conflict when desktop effects are enabled, (3d acceleration) hope they will soon fix this problem,

Regarding the sound i do not know much, but you might have to install restricted codecs called gstreamer10-ugly to play mp3, mpg etc formats.

these drivers may be restricted and have copyright issues in your country,

---

