---
title: "Sony vaio widescreen problem"
date: 2005-05-06
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by luvdemheels on 2005-05-06
I have a VGN-FS540P laptop that I just installed unbuntu 5.04 on. I cannot get the screen to fill up my whole widecreen. I see black on the top,bottom and sides. Can someone help me get my whole screen filled up? 

After that I will need to get the sound working. I posting this from that laptop so everything else seems ok so far.

It has a Intel graphics media accelerator 900 and here is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf

"# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
"

---

### Post by enquiry on 2005-05-06
See this thread: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=26284&page=2&pp=10&highlight=](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=26284&page=2&pp=10&highlight=)

Please do not create more than one thread for each topic  ( [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32215&highlight=](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32215&highlight=) )  [-X

---

### Post by luvdemheels on 2005-05-06
I'm sorry about 2 threads But I really want this to work. I read through the other thread you linked but it doesn't help me at all. I must be stupid or something but I Really want Ubuntu to work and look right on this laptop.

What else is Crazy is when I goto System and then Preferences, Screen resolution the only choice I have is 1024x768 and 60Hz. There is Nothing else to choose from.

---

### Post by enquiry on 2005-05-06
[QUOTE=luvdemheels]I must be stupid or something but I Really want Ubuntu to work and look right on this laptop[/QUOTE]
If indeed you were stupid you wouldn't use Ubuntu  ;-) 

I believe your problem is related to the sync rate. Your video card is an Intel 82845G. The x-server probably tries a sync rate that doesn't work with the resolution specified in xorg.conf. See if you find this usefull: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=31982](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=31982)

---

### Post by luvdemheels on 2005-05-06
I am having major issues trying to make this work. Now my Monitor section looks like this - 

"Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-72
        VertRefresh     43-60
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841 -HSync +Vsync
EndSection"

Now I can see more options under System, preferences, screen resolution But nothing over 1024x768. Just options under that. I sure wish I could get my whole screen filled. It is a 15.4 widescreen. Does anyone have anymore suggestions?

---

### Post by luvdemheels on 2005-05-07
Any help???

---

### Post by enquiry on 2005-05-07
First you must find out the optimal vertical and horizontal sync rate. This you should be able to find in the manual that came with your laptop.

---

### Post by luvdemheels on 2005-05-07
Looks like I am SOL. Sony just said they had No idea what 

 HorizSync 28-72
VertRefresh 43-60

meant or what the settings should be.  ](*,)

I have no manual so I called.

---

### Post by enquiry on 2005-05-07
I looked at the specs for the laptop at sony.com, but it doesn't specify the rync rates. 

Try this:
HorizSync 31.5 - 64.3
VertRefresh 50-100

and put # in front of the line Modeline

(from the xorg.conf for a laptop that I think have the same screen: [http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Sony_VGN-S18GP](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Sony_VGN-S18GP) )

Make sure you know how to recover the xorg.conf file, if the x-server doesn't start, before making changes to it.

---

### Post by luvdemheels on 2005-05-07
Still does not work. The only choices I get under System, Preferences, Screen Resolution are 1024x768 and lower. I Need 1280x800. Thanks for trying. Looks like this laptop is not going to work. I have no sound anyway.

---

### Post by enquiry on 2005-05-07
Don't give up, man!

If it doesn't work you'll just have to try something else  :wink: 
Try changing  
Depth 24
Modes "1280x800"
to
Depth 24
Modes "1280x768"
and remove the lines for horizontal sync and vertical refresh.
If it doesn't work, try these:

HorizSync 31.5 - 48.5
VertRefresh 50-70
or
HorizSync 31.5 - 57.0
VertRefresh 50-90

or even
HorizSync 31.5 - 48.5
VertRefresh 50-90
and
HorizSync 31.5 - 57.0
VertRefresh 50-70

---

### Post by royg1234 on 2005-05-07
didn't read through this thread, but I thought I'd offer up what I did for my Gateway 3522GZ.

[list]
[*]get [855resolution package](http://www.debian.or.jp/~kmuto/855resolution/855resolution_0.3-1_i386.deb) 
[*]in terminal, [COLOR=DarkRed]sudo dpkg -i [855 package] [/COLOR]
[*]read up  and follow instructions in /usr/share/doc/855resolution/README.Debian
[*]read README.txt
[/list] 

And that worked for me (running 1280x768@60hz on Gateway 3522GZ <-- sweet laptop for like $1200 at Bestbuy (n00bish, I know)).

---

### Post by luvdemheels on 2005-05-07
Nothing above worked at all. This laptop is kicking my as . I downloaded a linux driver from the intel site and tried to run their install.sh but it always says 

"Compiler is not available to compile modules, aborting..."

No sure what this means. The original file downloaded was named i915Graphics.tar.gz.

---

