---
title: "Ubuntu X-driver ignores xorg.conf modelines!!?"
date: 2007-05-31
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Tilo on 2007-05-31
I've been using LINUX pretty much since RedHat 1.0 and have never seen this kind of behaviour..

I'm running Ubuntu Feisty Fawn on a X60 Tablet with a native LCD resolution of 1400x1050
but the X-server only gives me 1280x1024.

I even cut-down the xorg.conf to one single resolution, and added a modeline with the 
correct parameters for this display - no luck...  any other X11 installation would obey, 
or just not start X11 - what's wrong with Ubuntu??   this is plain annoying!!


QUESTIONS:

1) what component tries to be "extra intelligent" here and overrides the settings in xorg.conf? 
2) how do I disable this "extra intelligence" / component?    I want my X driver to obey xorg.conf!!! (or crash)
3) how do i get my 1400x1050?? 

thank you

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Driver          "i810"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
#       Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-90
        VertRefresh     43-90

        Modeline "1400x1050_84"   84.80  1400 1420 1536 1600  1050 1052 1057 1060 -hsync -vsync

EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24

        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1400x1050_84" "1400x1050"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2007-05-31
have you installed the 915 resolution package?

its in synaptic and allows higher resolutions for intel chipsets

```
sudo apt-get install 915resolution
```

you may have to enable universe and multiverse repos first

---

### Post by nutz on 2007-05-31
I have this same issue with a desktop system running a GeForce FX5200. The user account I created when I installed the system only gets very low refresh rates.

I set the xorg.conf to one single resolution, and added a modeline with the correct parameters for this display as well with  no change. It's like it doesn't even read the xorg file as if the modeline isn't there...

But yet other users log into the system and get the correct resolution and refresh rate per the modeline I set! What gives? Why is this one user stuck at a low refresh rate?

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2007-05-31
which driver are you using?

did either of you try ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` and add the resolutions that way?

---

### Post by nutz on 2007-05-31
> **renzokuken said:**
> which driver are you using?

did either of you try ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` and add the resolutions that way?


Yep; several times. All goes well but when I add the modeline it just ignores it.

---

### Post by Tilo on 2007-05-31
Hi renzokuken, Hi nutz, 

thanks for the quick reply!   I'll give this a try.

In the mean-time, could you perhaps explain what this extra package for the extra resolutions
does?    That seems very strange behavior for an X11-installation to need an extra package.
Do you perhaps know what this package contains? an updated driver, or extra modelines? 
If it's extra modelines, where do they go?? what part of X11 picks them up and ignores xorg.conf?

I'm puzzled.. :-)

thank you!

---

### Post by nutz on 2007-05-31
I am new to linux and this one really has me puzzled. All users of the system get the resolution and refresh rate I specified in this modeline except one and I can't figure it out. Why is this one users resolution and refresh rate out of wack?

Check out my xorg.conf...

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:20 PST 2006

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Optiquest"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 95.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    # 1280x1024 @ 85.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 91.38 kHz; pclk: 159.36 MHz
    Modeline "1280x1024_85.00"  159.36  1280 1376 1512 1744  1024 1025 1028 1075  -HSync +Vsync

EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "RenderAccel" "True"
    Option         "NvAGP" "3"
    Option         "Coolbits" "1"
    Option         "TripleBuffer" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Gio-van-I on 2007-05-31
Wow, having the same problem here.

Been reading more posts like this, but this one has an answer I didn't hear of yet.

For some reason I've been seeing the problem in combination with GeForce FX 5xxx video cards. Could be the same here. Using a FX 5600 myself.

One thing I found out was that deleting the xorg.conf file led to automatically getting your maximum resolution. But it messes up your OpenGL or what ever it is so don't expect your avi files to look nice.

Reinstalling helped out cause you will get the maximum resolution on all accounts again. What you do need to look out for is the 'restricted drivers manager'. enabling your card here seems to mess things up again.

Gonna try the 915 res pack.
Good luck with your resolution problems ;).

---

### Post by Gary.M on 2007-05-31
Is there a possibility that xorg.conf is ignored or overridden when the restricted driver is installed. I have the Nvidia restricted driver and the contents of xorg.conf don't seem to have much to do with the res I get. I have to set that though Nvidia-settings. The regular display resolution control doesn't show the resolutions or refresh rates that are possible, nor does it reflect the one I'm running as set with Nvidia-settings.

In addition I've been trying to optimise the font appearance following other threads that show a procedure to insert a "displaysize" entry into xorg.conf to achieve an X / Gnome res of 96dpi. This entry is being completely ignored in Feisty as I've found and others have reported.

See the last posts in this thread...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=20976]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=20976")

Is this a bug? Restricted mode driver causes xorg.conf to be ignored?



> **Gio-van-I said:**
> 
 What you do need to look out for is the 'restricted drivers manager'. enabling your card here seems to mess things up again.


---

### Post by Gio-van-I on 2007-06-01
> **Gary.M said:**
> Is this a bug? Restricted mode driver causes xorg.conf to be ignored?

Well I haven't been using Ubuntu for very long now. Next to that last time I used Linux was text based through dial up login. So I'm probably not the best person tell what's the problem.

Trying to answer your question. Yes, I think so. From what I tried I found out I can't use xorg.conf to adjust my display settings after I have installed the restricted mode driver. Even after disabling it this problem persists.
I know that if you disable the restricted driver and delete the xorg.conf that the restricted driver is enabled again if you open the restricted drivers manager. You aren't able to disable it as xorg.conf is unavailable (what is true of course).
I haven't tried to delete the xorg.conf without previously activating these drivers. Maybe I will try this and post the result. Might give some insight on the problem.

What I was wondering has anyone seen a post on this that wasn't NVidia related? Cause I have the distinct feeling it's an NVidia bug not a Ubuntu one.

---

### Post by nutz on 2007-06-01
> **Gio-van-I said:**
> Cause I have the distinct feeling it's an NVidia bug not a Ubuntu one.

Same here but either way we need to find a resolution. No pun intended...

---

### Post by Syke on 2007-06-01
1) i810 driver
2) Switch to intel driver.
3) see 2)

Don't use the i810 driver. Switch to Intel.

```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel
```

and then modify your xorg.conf to use "Driver "intel"".

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2007-06-01
just to clarify as well, the 915resolution package is for INTEL chipsets only, so wont do anything for nvidia or ati

---

### Post by cm.squared on 2007-07-29
I'm having the same sort of problem but with the synaptics driver for a touchpad.  X11 ignores the "SHMConfig" "on" modeline I've added to my xorg.conf file and I can't access any of the configuration options synaptics is supposed to offer for the touchpad, so scrolling doesn't work and neither does syndaemon.  

Is the i810 driver at all related to the synaptics driver or is this a more general problem relating to the X driver(s)?

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by yonkiman on 2008-02-02
It's been 7 months...has anyone found a solution to this problem yet?

Here's my story:

I've got all the basics of a Mythbuntu install with the restricted nvidia driver working OK, including component video out to my 720p HDTV.  However the highest resolution that works is 1024x768 (4:3, not 16:9).  I have a custom modeline for 1152x648 that works (with no overscan) for this TV in Windows XP, so I'm trying to add that.  

However when I add the modeline to my xorg.conf, the new resolution does not show up in the control panel.  In the control panel, however, there are hundreds of monitors with lots of modes each.  Does anyone know where the file for these monitors is?  *This *is the file we need to modify.  I hope it exists, but I'm worried it may be compiled into the nvidia binary.

Does anyone have any ideas?

-Fred

---

### Post by Ydinlaskeuma on 2008-04-14
Editing xorg.conf is useless indeed. Ubuntu does not obey.

I have two displays and two modelines that have worked on this system;
modeline "800x600"      36.00    800  912  984 1092    600  601  603  637 -hsync -vsync
modeline "1440x900"    106.50   1440 1520 1672 1904    900  903  909  934 +hsync -vsync
but adding them to xorg.conf produces unrelated options in the graphical configurator.

xvidtune used to be a good mode changer for me, but now that has ceased to work, possibly due to accidentally updating it along with everything.

I have Kde installed on top of Ubuntu, which now screws around with my xorg.conf differently: screen configuration editor overwrites xorg.conf and renames old ones to xorg.conf.1 and so on. Changing between resolutions has worked occasionally, sometimes only sync polarity goes wrong (according to xvidtune), but sometimes I lose picture completely and have to use "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" in safe mode after hard reset.

Computer is Dell Optiplex GX260, intel graphics chip on board, the driver that works the most is "intel".

I abandoned XP for this kind of behaviour.

---

