---
title: "Installing Gutsy on Dell Inspiron 600m"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by fizgig on 2007-10-18
Everything works:

-3D acceleration works great
-Sound works great
-Monitor detection works great
-Wifi card works great

Asked if I wanted to install restricted driver for modem!

Required absolutely no setup!  Amazing!

---

### Post by khnle on 2007-10-19
Yes, but could you set the resolution higher than 1024x768 ?  I have a Dell Inspiron 600m too.  I ran 7.04 until yesterday, then upgraded to 7.10.  Out of the box, neither offer choices of resolution higher than 1024x768.  I modified the xorg.conf according to all resources out there, but still no good result.

If you have the answer, please post.  Thanks

---

### Post by fizgig on 2007-10-19
It detected and used the native resolution of 1400x1050.  Also, compiz works very well!

Here's my xorg:

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the  xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg 
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "CoreKeyboard"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg" 
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse" 
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "Protocol"        "ImPS/2" 
    Option        "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5"
    Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad" 
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev" 
    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "stylus"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom" 
    Option        "Type"        "stylus"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom" 
    Identifier    "eraser"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "eraser"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY 
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "cursor"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option        "Type"        "cursor" 
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "ATI Technologies Inc Radeon R250 [Mobility FireGL 9000]" 
    Driver        "ati"
    BusID        "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Generic Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS"
EndSection 

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "ATI Technologies Inc Radeon R250 [Mobility FireGL 9000]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor" 
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes        "1400x1050"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout" 
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#    InputDevice     "stylus"    "SendCoreEvents" 
#    InputDevice     "cursor"    "SendCoreEvents"
#    InputDevice     "eraser"    "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by calcnerd256 on 2007-10-20
> **fizgig said:**
> Everything works:

-3D acceleration works great
-Sound works great
-Monitor detection works great
-Wifi card works great

Asked if I wanted to install restricted driver for modem!

Required absolutely no setup!  Amazing!

My story isn't such a happy one. No 3D acceleration, no 2D acceleration. My xorg looks just like yours except for the resolution.

---

### Post by fizgig on 2007-10-20
I'm sorry to hear that.  Doing an lspci, I see that my video card is the following:

> 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV250 [Mobility FireGL 9000] (rev 02)

Is that the card you have?  Also, I understand that a lot of the compiz stuff doesn't work unless the resolution is correct.  If you have the same screen I have (dunno how to tell) perhaps you should just use my xorg?

---

### Post by dopplerdjay on 2007-10-21
> **calcnerd256 said:**
> My story isn't such a happy one. No 3D acceleration, no 2D acceleration. My xorg looks just like yours except for the resolution.

I had the same problem, Gutsy was running so slow to the point that when typing there was a 3 second delay. Well after doing a lot of reading, someone recommend commenting out Busid		"PCI:1:0:0" 

```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon R250 [Mobility FireGL 9000]"
	Boardname	"ati"
	**#Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"**
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	0
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection

```

Now I can actually browse the internet and my cpu cycles are at 20-40% instead of 100% 24/7. However, it would be nice to get 3d effects working and dual monitors.

---

### Post by calcnerd256 on 2007-10-21
> **fizgig said:**
> I'm sorry to hear that.  Doing an lspci, I see that my video card is the following:



Is that the card you have?  Also, I understand that a lot of the compiz stuff doesn't work unless the resolution is correct.  If you have the same screen I have (dunno how to tell) perhaps you should just use my xorg?


01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV250 [Mobility FireGL 9000] (rev 02)

my screen's actual resolution is 1024x768

---

### Post by growltiger on 2007-10-25
I upgraded from feisty on this model of laptop and I have got to say that I am disappointed that dual head display no longer works.  I had to remove my old xorg.conf since it killed X on start and all the editing on a system regenerated xorg.conf cannot put multiple display support together again.

To be fair, I am xrandr challenged.  Perhaps, over time I can suss out the proper incantation to get this working again.  Anyone have any real world remedies.  Until then I am mightily disappointed and irritated.

---

### Post by yisongxie on 2007-10-25
I just successfully install the Ubuntu 7.10. Everything runs fine, except the Wireless connection. Need to work out that one.

But another question, when i install Ubuntu, I assign 20G to / partition, and now how can I extend the root partition?

---

### Post by ctweb on 2007-10-26
Everything except the hard drive is working on mine, I am unable to turn on DMA so running

```

hdparm -tT /dev/hda

```

I get

```

/dev/hda:
 Timing cached reads:   1364 MB in  2.00 seconds = 682.27 MB/sec
 Timing buffered disk reads:    6 MB in  4.22 seconds =   1.42 MB/sec

```

3 kernel compiles and still no luck

---

