---
title: "8.04 beta: no sound on thinkpad T40"
date: 2008-04-17
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by amixroed on 2008-04-17
today i tried 8.04 on my T40 and i'm having issues with the sound not working....it gives me an error "No volume control GStreamer plugins and/or devices found"

i had 7.10 and it worked perfectly with sound.. anyidea how to fix this?

---

### Post by xjb2003x on 2008-04-17
First thing I would do is go into Synaptic Package Manager and search for GStreamer.  If you don't have those installed, that would be your first step.

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2008-04-17
and then make sure you have alsamixergui installed to check on if anything is muted.

---

### Post by amixroed on 2008-04-17
well i've unstalled it for now utill the final 8.04 and if i still get the problem will do what you guys mentioned.

---

### Post by Chii on 2008-04-17
You may want to try and boot with acpi=off to see if it is just the BIOS being blacklisted.  If your sound does work when you do it, this is the case.  If so you would need an altered DSDT file, for with there are guides on how to set up. 

I wonder though if this will be the case for me, when it comes time to set up the DSDT file again for Kubuntu 8.04 :s

---

### Post by benmarvin on 2008-04-17
I had a similar problem and had to use ALSA instead of PulseAudio.

---

### Post by pieisgood4589 on 2008-04-17
Hmmmm... IBM Thinkpads are generally well-supported... I'd just wait for the official release :popcorn:

---

### Post by djsamsel on 2008-04-25
i also have a t40 with no sound and the final release. any other suggestions would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by arched on 2008-04-26
I am also encountering the same problem and cannot fix it in final release.

---

### Post by ceasol on 2008-04-27
I have same problem in a Dell x1330 the sound was working before the upgrade

---

### Post by Qreeek on 2008-04-29
I played around a bit last night with the sound on my T40.
It is a fresh install of 8.04, using the default selected drives for sound. I am at work, so I cannot give more specific info right now.

I found that I was able to enable the sound by pressing the "increase volume" key. The actual hardware button. It was also able to increase the volume.
Pressing the mute button could only mute the sound though, not turn it back on.

So this issue might be related to buggy/missing HW drivers for the volume control keys.

---

