---
title: "7.04 install problem...please help"
date: 2007-06-25
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by mpeynado on 2007-06-25
Hi,

I'm having difficulty running the live CD or installing ANY of the ubuntu distros on my Gateway 400sD4 laptop. When I boot to the CD, the run/install menu pops up. When i make ANY selection, it hangs. I've tried the alternate CD too. With the alternate, I still can't run it live but I can start the install process but it will eventually hang. I ran the utility to check the integrity of the CD and it reports a failure.

I don't have ANY of these problems on my Dell Inspiron E1750. The Gateway is almost 4 years old, has 2.6 ghz P4 and 512mb or ram. It does not however have the original CD/DVD rom drive....the original failed and it now has a Pioneer DVR-K14 which seems to work fine.

I should also note that the live CD version of two other linux distros have worked on this Gateway....they are SLAX and Feather Linux.

Anyone have any ideas? I sure could use some help, I would really like to use Ubuntu!

thanks,

--mark
___________

---

### Post by davecambs on 2007-06-25
seems like a burn issue here, maybe try a different burn program

---

### Post by greg_g on 2007-06-25
And burn at a lower speed.  Sometimes the max speed can cause errors too.

---

### Post by mpeynado on 2007-06-25
thanks...I'll give it a shot.

---

### Post by mpeynado on 2007-06-25
You guys were right....I booted my other laptop with the Ubuntu 7.04 LiveCD, installed k3b and burned the iso again at 16x.  The new cd worked just fine....thanks for the help.  Still curious why it worked all the time on the Dell but not on the older GW2K....

Thanks again,

---

