---
title: "[SOLVED] ATI Drivers"
date: 2008-01-24
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Navoj on 2008-01-24
Hi I'm new in Linux, I install the Ubuntu x64 7.10 and i have it up to date.

I have not be able to enable visual effects, I looked every place and traded many ways, but i really don't now what I'm doing and many times I reinstalled the system.

I have a ATI Radeon sapphire x1950 PRO 512MB PCI-E.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2008-01-24
*Most *ATI card users have 2 options:

1. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580748](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580748)
Use XGL with Compiz.  This works just fine, but XGL seems to use a reasonable amount of CPU performance, so just beware...

2. Latest ATI drivers with AIGLX.  This seems to work better, but mplayer / Totem / VLC don't seem to manage to play video with Compiz on when using AIGLX.  Some kind of bug or something.  There are a couple of ways to turn Compiz on/off from the panel when you are watching movies if you want to go down this route.
Easiest way to install?  Follow the Graphics Card Drivers link in my signature.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-01-24
This thread is a duplicate of this one: Please lock/delete.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=675699](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=675699)

---

### Post by jmbenson89 on 2008-01-24
I had the same issue with ATI Radeon 2600 HD Pro graphics card (was using fglrx graphics driver...restricted one).  This worked for me and most others with similar graphics card:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide)

I used method 2.

---

### Post by Navoj on 2008-01-24
Hi, I just enable de restricted driver and did not work I got a black screen. I was force to use 

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg.

Now my LCD is working at 1280x1024 @ 60HZ but I now it works better at 75Hz., Still use the vesa generic.  

I trade suggestion of Temüjin in
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=675699](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=675699)
But did not work.

Please help.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-01-24
> Now my LCD is working at 1280x1024 @ 60HZ but I know it works better at 75Hz
60Hz is good for an LCD. It does not redraw the picture like a CRT, so it does not flicker.

Install the Ubuntu proprietary driver again (sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx). When it goes to the black screen, press Ctrl+Alt+F1. Log in to the terminal. Now type:
```
cp /var/log/Xorg.0.log ~/Desktop
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

When you restart the log file should be on your desktop. Post the log file.

---

### Post by Navoj on 2008-01-24
O.K. Temujin I'm back, but still using Vesa Generic and unable to enable visual effects.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-01-24
I can't help until you post a log from a failed boot with the proprietary driver, as I instructed above.

---

### Post by Navoj on 2008-01-25
Timujiu
I did not get the log but, this will help?

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet

---

### Post by Navoj on 2008-01-25
Can some one help I'm stock and in the same as the beginning.

---

### Post by Navoj on 2008-01-25
I look every ware and nothing has work.

I'm in Method 2 OF:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide#Pre-Installation_Checks](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide#Pre-Installation_Checks)
But in synaptic step, I'm unable to delete the "fglrx" it only update.

---

### Post by Navoj on 2008-01-25
OK People thanks a lot.

For New users of Ubuntu or any version of Linux, Is not easy to get it work, but if you read slow and well you'll get it right it happen to me.

OH I forgot Method 2 solution.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2008-01-26
> **Navoj said:**
> OK People thanks a lot.

For New users of Ubuntu or any version of Linux, Is not easy to get it work, but if you read slow and well you'll get it right it happen to me.

OH I forgot Method 2 solution.

For future readers - Envy will automate this process (Method 2).

See the link in my signature - Graphics Card Driver

---

### Post by orbitfish on 2008-04-09
I have followed this thread with interest as I have just started trying Linux (I have Gutsy Gibbon installed) and have an Ati x1950 pro 256MB installed and have had problems getting anything above 800x600 screen resolution.


I managed to enable the ati drivers through the admin panel and got a black screen at boot.

I followed your instructions to create a log and re booted.

However, I cannot paste the log here as it contains too many images (apparently) and it will not upload as an attachment because it is an invalid file (apparently). I'm open to suggestions as to how to send the log.




The re boot was successful and I now have a decent resolution;

Have I configured my graphics card successfully or does this log tell you something is not working right?

TIA

Orbitfish

---

