---
title: "Screen Resolution Defaults Too High"
date: 2007-01-04
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by WoodyMahan on 2007-01-04
I am using twinview.  It has been working fine unstil I went on vacation.  When I came back, my screen res has changed to 2560X1024 and one of my monitors has a default max of 1028X1024.

When I go to Screen Resolution Preferences, my only options are 2560X1024 and 2048X768.

Here is my xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Oct 16 22:13:07 PDT 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
Load    "dbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 64.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
Option "TwinView" "True"
Option "TwinViewOrientation" "RightOf"   
Option "UseEdidFreqs" "True"
Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024; 1024x768,1024x768"
Option "UseDisplayDevice" "string" #replace 'string' with either 'DFP' (Digital flat panel connected via DVI port), 'CRT' (any monitor that is connected via VGA ports), or 'TV'
Option "ConnectedMonitor" "string, string-1" #replace 'string' and 'strin-1' with either 'DFP' (Digital Flat Panel connected via DVI port), 'CRT' (any monitor that is connected via VGA ports), or 'TV'
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by [zerophase] on 2007-01-04
i am also having screen resolution issues but i posted and i got no replies... [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=329018](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=329018), maybe the solve of your problems might help me too.

---

### Post by Ziox on 2007-01-05
Sorry about my prolonged absence.  Life has been taking a toll on me lately, but don't worry, I am well and energized. :p

Now, as for the problem. I'm not quite understanding the goal you are trying to achieve.  I realized that the screen resolution is too high, but what is the final resolution you are seeking?

From the xorg.conf file provided by WoodyMahan, I can tell that the screen resolutions (2560x1024, 2048x768) are correct, meaning that the computer did not make any mistake (technically speaking).  The total resolution of moth screens is dictated by this line within xorg.conf file:

```
 Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024; 1024x768,1024x768"
```

Xorg determines the final resolution by adding the corresponding values based on the monitor location.  For your situation, resolution 2560x1024 is produced by adding "1280x1024,1280x1024".  Since the monitor orientation is side-by-side, the "1280"'s are add together.  Resolution 2048x768 is achieve in a similar fashion.

So based on that logic, simply by changing the "MetaModes" line, ideal resolutions can be reached.  However, a word of caution from me. Based on the information I have gathered through various reading, TwinView (the method employed here to enable dual-screen) does NOT cope too well with non-rectangular screen resolutions. (i.e. 1024x1110,1286x1002)  This not to deter you from experimenting with various values, it is the words of the wise ;).

After all that talking, what it comes down to is: Changes the values in the "MetaModes" line until an ideal resolution is reached. 

P.S. I noticed couple blatant mistakes in the xorg.conf file.
For example, the following line:

```
Option "UseDisplayDevice" "**string**" #replace 'string' with either 'DFP' (Digital flat panel connected via DVI port), 'CRT' (any monitor that is connected via VGA ports), or 'TV'
```

Replace the WORD **string with the values given above (DFP, CRT, TV).**

In case you are wondering, this options informs xorg which head of the graphics card to use for the primary screen.

Hopefully these advices helped. :KS Good Luck!
And if you have other questions/problems/comments, feel free to PM me.

---

### Post by WoodyMahan on 2007-01-06
Great Info Ziox!! Thanks!

The goal here is to achieve a resolution of 1280X1024 on both of my monitors.  If Twinview is adding the metamodes settings together to generate 2560X1024, then I see how it is happening.  One of my monitors has a max resolution of 1280X1024 so it just goes black when Ubuntu sets the resolution to 2056.  So I understand now how it happened.  So I should make the metamodes lower? (i.e. 800X600) so it will add them up to a lower total resolution?

Thanks

Wood

---

### Post by Ziox on 2007-01-06
The final resolution should accommodate both of your monitors, meaning that both resolution have to add up to 2560x1024.
So, I would tweak around with the numbers, both in the "Screen" section and in the "Device" Section.  Remember, what you would label as "Monitor #1" could be identified as "Monitor #2", so sometimes you have to switch around the numbers.

What is the max resolutions for both of your monitors?

Also, if you can reproduce your problem, then check out the xorg log, that would be great. 
Steps would be: login and let one problem go out.  Then enter this line in terminal:
cp /var/log/Xorg.0.log ~/Desktop/Xorg.0.log
Next you can either paste the content of the file in the thread, or you can use the paste-bin that Ubuntu provides (don't know the URL).

---

