---
title: "7.04 can't find raid disks on intel board"
date: 2007-08-21
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by geoffrussell on 2007-08-21
Hi,

I'm trying to install 7.04 alternate on an intel S5000VSA system. 

If I disable the on-board raid, then both disks are visible, but with raid
enabled, the ubuntu installer can't see any disks.  I have no
idea which driver to specify during the install.

Any ideas?

Cheers,
Geoff Russell

---

### Post by Helder Pereira on 2007-09-05
Hello,

I have de same problem, any ideas ???

Regards,
Helder

---

### Post by electronbee on 2007-09-05
The reason is that you do not have a "real" RAID controller on that motherboard. It is basically like a software NIC, modem, sound card, etc. Your controller offloads some of the processes to help expedite the RAID functions. Basically, a hardware assisted software RAID setup is what you have going on. 

For comparison, look up a RAID controller that uses actual RAM. You will see that the cost is at least $200 for that card alone. Where as I just bought a mobo with a "RAID controller" on it for less than $50. 

The speed differences are negligble. On somethings its faster and on others there is little difference. I almost did a RAID 0 install with Ubunutu 7.04 when I migrated from XP. But, I researched the issue and decided not too. I just have some things on one drive and others on the other and that provides a speed boost as well.

You can search for fakeraid here and you will find some help. But, I would just install it with two seperate drives and be done with it. Just my 2 cents.

eb

---

