---
title: "[SOLVED] Wacom Intuos problem in Ubuntu Gutsy"
date: 2007-11-04
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by xabierurra on 2007-11-04
Hi,
My Wacom Intuos tablet does not work on Ubuntu Gutsy. If I uncomment the last 3 lines in xorg.conf the graphics wont't start unless I comment them again. Any idea why this happens?

My xorg.conf file: 

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GS]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:4:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"BenQ FP92Wa"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GS]"
	Monitor		"BenQ FP92Wa"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1440x1440"	"1440x900"	"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"	"640x350"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	

#Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
       
[COLOR="Red"]#	InputDevic     "stylus"		"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"[/COLOR]
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by papapep on 2007-11-04
Which Wacom table model do you have? Is it plugged to the computer when you boot it?

---

### Post by xabierurra on 2007-11-04
It's an Intuos 3. I have it pluged but I have also tried to start after unplugging it and it did not work. 
I have also tried to add another Section to xorg.conf that was recommended in the wakom project for this tablet, but it made no difference, it fails to restart if I uncomment these three lines. 

Xabi

---

### Post by papapep on 2007-11-04
And which is the message from the xorg server when it fails to start?

---

### Post by xabierurra on 2007-11-04
Mmmm, I don't get any message, I get a black screen and the ubuntu login screen doesn't appear. I'm not sure if there is any message when I restart the computer, I'll chek it. 

Xabi

---

### Post by xabierurra on 2007-11-04
No, there's no message, even if I restart. I have to use the recovery mode and change the xorg.conf file. 

Xabi

---

### Post by papapep on 2007-11-04
Perhaps what is happening is that the logon screen its at a resolution your monitor is not able to show. You should try to type your user and password at that black screen to see if it works.

BTW, which is your graphic card model?

---

### Post by xabierurra on 2007-11-04
No, I tried to type username and password but there is no change. It is not exactly a blank screen, there is this small horizontal cursor on the top but can't type anything. 
My graphic card is:
04:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GS] (rev a1)
Xabi

---

### Post by papapep on 2007-11-04
mmmmm....have you noticed there's missing an "e" at the first line of your wacom device definition??

> #Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet

# InputDevic "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Where it should say ***# InputDevic[COLOR="Red"]e[/COLOR] "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"***

it says ***# InputDevic "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"***

---

### Post by xabierurra on 2007-11-04
Wow!
That was the key! There is some button not working properly, I'll have to figure out why, but the rest is OK. 
I assume I changed it without noticing my mistake?
Thank you anyway for your kind attention.

Xabi.

---

### Post by papapep on 2007-11-04
Nice. You should mark the thread as solved. ;-)

Estic content d'haver-te pogut ajudar.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2008-02-09
not solved on this end .. I also have an Intuos 3 and want to get it running on Gutsy.

The pen WORKS but just barely (slow and the amount of movement it takes to move the cursor is HUGE)  and NO action whatsoever on the mouse.  Could you please post some cut an paste commands and just WHAT I am to change in the file in order to get this happening?  Would appreciate it a LOT! and thanks.

(next step is to get the Epson R1800 up and running .. LOL)

---

