---
title: "Hp Nx7300"
date: 2007-02-07
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by capdog on 2007-02-07
I'm starting this thread to post some useful info I've discovered while trying to install Ubuntu Edgy Eft on my HP NX7300 laptop. Model number is RH700EA, here are the laptop specs:

Intel Core 2 Duo T5600 1.83GHz
Intel Graphics 950
Intel Chipset 945GM Express
Intel Pro Wireless 3945ABG
1 gig RAM
120gig SATA Drive
15.4" Brightview

The link to the product detail (HP's page) is [here.]("http://h10010.www1.hp.com/wwpc/za/en/sm/WF06b/1781533-1781641-1781641-1781641-12434630-12924030-78094391.html")

Edgy installs fine, and the wireless, lan, firewire, cardbus bridge and graphics are all detected and appear in the 'lspci' list. The resolution gets set perfectly to 1280x800, and it seems great. The graphics driver used is the Intel i810.

This laptop suffers from what is called the "bad state". This is a description lifted from a bug report out on the net somewhere:

[I]The symptoms of "bad state":

 - Boot slowdown (the BIOS takes up to 20 seconds to make POST);
 - Kernel slowdown during boot (you can compare dmesg I attached);
 - Battery and AC Adapter status (read from /proc/acpi/battery) are not updated
after boot.

The biggest problem is that when the system falls in "bad state" the only way to
back it up is to unplug the cord and disconnect the battery for few seconds.[/I]

The other thing I noticed is that the speedstepping of the processor cannot be forced up to 1.83GHz when it's in this "bad state". To play around with this, install the package cpufrequtils, and use the command cpufreq-info and cpufreq-set to fiddle. There is more info out there, but to force both CPUs to their highest level, use the commands:

```
/usr/bin/cpufreq-set -c 0 -d 1.83GHz -u 1.83GHz -g ondemand
/usr/bin/cpufreq-set -c 1 -d 1.83GHz -u 1.83GHz -g ondemand
```

To put it back to scaling mode, use:

```
/usr/bin/cpufreq-set -c 0 -d 1GHz -u 1.83GHz -g ondemand
/usr/bin/cpufreq-set -c 1 -d 1GHz -u 1.83GHz -g ondemand
```

If you want to check that the speedstepping is working, issue the command ```
cat /dev/urandom  > /dev/null
``` at the terminal. This will generate 100% cpu usage (on one core). Run it again in another terminal, and you will see 100% cpu usage on both cores. You should be able to see them stepping up to 1.83GHz by either looking at the graphical applet on the panel (CPU Frequency Scaling Monitor - just right click on a panel and add it), or by checking the output of cpufreq-info (if you have cpufrequtils installed). 

If it only scales to 1.33 GHz, then you should try force them to 1.83 using the above cpufreq-set commands. If it doesn't work, you're in bad state!

I ended up adding the commands to set the cpu's to maximum then back to normal into the script /etc/rc.local. That will do it at every boot, and worked nicely!

I also find the mute/volume up/volume down buttons don't work in the bad state. But still, the most obvious is the power management not recognising changes (if it booted on battery, plug in AC and vice-versa - it won't do anything)

I do not have the suspend function working. It goes into suspend mode but never returns. 

The wireless appears to be working with network-manager-gnome, I haven't actually connected to one yet but there is definitely a list of available networks appearing. 

I am attempting to fix these problems, and will post results as I find them! Please, if you have any pointers or ideas, share them here!

Edit1> Check the following URL on the HP forums [click here]("http://forums1.itrc.hp.com/service/forums/bizsupport/questionanswer.do?threadId=1026460"). They explain the problem of the bad state, but to summarise you can fix it by unloading the psmouse module manually before shut down or reboot. This is done by adding the command ```
/sbin/modprobe -r psmouse
``` to the /etc/init.d/halt and /etc/init.d/reboot scripts. Please click [here]("http://emisca.altervista.org/nx7400/") for the link (there are also patched scripts there to grab).

This is another link with info [click here]("http://vale.homelinux.net/wordpress/?p=106"). From there, I got the tip to add ```
MODULES="psmouse"
``` to /etc/default/acpi-support to unload the psmouse module before suspend... maybe a step in the right direction for enabling suspend properly.

---

### Post by capdog on 2007-02-24
More info... if you push the button on the laptop to switch off wireless before Ubuntu boots, it stalls for some reason (hangs). 

If you play with the mute button while it's booting, the sound doesn't work at all once the desktop appears. Rather leave it unmuted.

When watching videos, you need to set the cpu to a constant speed or else you get video frame pauses for a few seconds every now and again. I don't know why this is, but when watching on batteries, with the governor set to "ondemand", this pause happens. Manually setting to "performance" gives the best results but on battery try "powersave"!

My advice for booting... just don't touch until it's all there! Sometimes the panel loads in the wrong order which irritates me too, seems to be a symptom of being impatient with Gnome while it's loading.

---

### Post by capdog on 2007-05-03
Happy to report that things work great in Feisty! No bad state, no scaling problems, nadda! Enjoy.

---

### Post by nicorav on 2007-05-03
What's abount suspend? I can't resume with keyboard enabled.

---

### Post by capdog on 2007-05-04
Sorry, you're 100% right, the keyboard driver (I presume) doesn't wake up. I haven't had time to look into it. To be honest, since I've been using Edgy where suspend was a complete disaster, I'd forgotten completely that laptops can do that.. :) So I hadn't bothered to test.

Don't have time to try fix now, but please post your results if you get anywhere. Will look around in future.

---

### Post by s57nev on 2007-08-31
This is my problem too... sometimes it resumes with keyboard sometimes it doasn't so I turn off machine with long press on power button. Anyone knows if tere is a solution for this problem? It's a great laptop for linux !

And yeah Still have prloblems with video in Bery VLC doasn't work ..is there a workaraound ?

---

### Post by mhoffman on 2007-10-11
Hi,
  I too have a nx7300 working nicely. Being faced w/ a oral presentation I though I could remote control my laptop via Bluetooth but I always get 

hcitool scan
Device is not available: No such device


Has anyone every gotten Bluetooth to work on this laptop?

Best regards,
Max Hoffmann.

---

### Post by s57nev on 2007-10-29
I have RU601ES and I'm curious if **Gutsy** works on this laptop. I've seen people have problems with ipw3945 wireless module... Any other problems on Gutsy ? **Feisty works great  BTW!!** I didn't have to touch anything after installation. I need dual head working for presentation soon.I've heard that **7.10** supports dual head better than **7.04**.

Since I use this laptop for work I can't afford being without wireless or Touchpad or keybord. 

**Could you please post your experiences here ?**

Like : 

-wireless
-compiz fusion
-dual head
-resolution 
-standby 
-keyboard

**Thank you very much !**

---

### Post by s57nev on 2007-10-29
> **mhoffman said:**
> Hi,
  I too have a nx7300 working nicely. Being faced w/ a oral presentation I though I could remote control my laptop via Bluetooth but I always get 

hcitool scan
Device is not available: No such device


Has anyone every gotten Bluetooth to work on this laptop?

Best regards,
Max Hoffmann.

To enable Bluetooth you need your wireless turned on with that button. At least on my version of nx7300.

---

### Post by s57nev on 2008-01-11
Tested Gutsy on nx7300. Everything works except wireless with ipw3945. This driver doasn't work on   WPA, WPA2 networks  (not sure for other type of encription).To make it work you should use iwl3945 driver. Since this driver is already included with Gutsy you have to blacklist old driver and use iwl3945.

PS: I almost forgot to mention Video on Intel Graphic card doasn't work very well with Compiz Fusion but I guess you know that already :) 

How ? 

edit configuration file : 

**sudo gedit /etc/modules  **

and put a line : **iwl3945**

then blacklist ipw3945

**sudo gedit  /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist**

and write : **blacklist ipw3945** 

This works on configuration: 

Intel Core 2 Duo T5600 1.83GHz
Intel Graphics 950
Intel Chipset 945GM Express
Intel Pro Wireless 3945ABG
1 gig RAM
120gig SATA Drive
15.4" Brightview


I had to write this down I lost too much time searching for solution  :KS

---

### Post by capdog on 2008-03-13
Hi s57nev, did you test the dual-monitor display? That was the biggest problem I faced. 


Thanks
capdog

---

### Post by s57nev on 2008-03-13
No I'll do that very soon cause I need that for my presentation soon.

---

### Post by j4ck455 on 2008-03-20
Unable to get anything from the mic, which makes Skype somewhat useless, I have tested the headset's mic on another machine and it is working, I've tried using the Sound Recorder and maxing the sound levels, as well as selecting different input devices, the mic was working in Vista.

Anyone else have the same problem in 7.10 on an nx7300?

---

### Post by s57nev on 2008-03-21
It works for me. I use HDA Intel. Are you sure you  enabled microphone? Everything works fine. The only thing that's strange about HDA intel sound card is that I can't hear myself speaking into microphone when talking with my headset. 

I'm posting my lspci output. Maybe it's not the same model: 

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/PM/GMS, 943/940GML and 945GT Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 01)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 01)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 01)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 01)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e1)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA AHCI Controller (rev 01)
02:06.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCIxx12 Cardbus Controller
02:06.1 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Texas Instruments PCIxx12 OHCI Compliant IEEE 1394 Host Controller
02:0e.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX (rev 02)
10:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)

---

### Post by j4ck455 on 2008-03-21
> **s57nev said:**
> It works for me. I use HDA Intel. Are you sure you  enabled microphone? Everything works fine. The only thing that's strange about HDA intel sound card is that I can't hear myself speaking into microphone when talking with my headset. 

I'm posting my lspci output. Maybe it's not the same model: Thanks, not quite sure what you mean by "enabled microphone" - where can I check if it is currently disabled?

Here is the lspci output from Ubuntu 7.10 on my nx7300:> 00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/PM/GMS, 943/940GML and 945GT Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
[B]00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
[/B]00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 01)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 01)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 01)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e1)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA AHCI Controller (rev 01)
02:06.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCIxx12 Cardbus Controller
02:06.1 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Texas Instruments PCIxx12 OHCI Compliant IEEE 1394 Host Controller
02:0e.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX (rev 02)
10:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection (rev 02)Maybe it has something to do with BIOS settings?

EDIT: I've had a look in the BIOS for anything audio related, and strangely there doesn't even appear to be an enable or disable option. I have also just booted from the Ubuntu 7.10 DVD and tried Sound Recorder there, but the mic is still not working. Maybe I should try booting from KUbuntu and/or Gentoo and see if the mic works in those distros...

**Added the following:**```
lsmod | grep snd
snd_hda_intel         263712  1 
snd_pcm_oss            44672  0 
snd_mixer_oss          17664  1 snd_pcm_oss
snd_pcm                80388  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm_oss
snd_seq_dummy           4740  0 
snd_seq_oss            33152  0 
snd_seq_midi            9600  0 
snd_rawmidi            25728  1 snd_seq_midi
snd_seq_midi_event      8448  2 snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi
snd_seq                53232  6 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
snd_timer              24324  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
snd_seq_device          9228  5 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
snd                    54660  11 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_seq_oss,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
soundcore               8800  1 snd
snd_page_alloc         11400  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm
```**does that help figure out if there are any glaringly obvious problems on my system?**

EDIT: I have updated the BIOS on my nx7300 from version F.0A to F.0B and then to F.0C, and the mic problem has disappeared, I did test after applying F.0B and the mic was working at that point. However, there is some doubt in my mind because I reset BIOS F.0A settings back to the defaults just before applying F.0B, I will see what happens after I fiddle with the BIOS settings to get them back to what they were.

---

