---
title: "Ati Mobility Radeon 7500"
date: 2007-10-21
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by vvinuesaa on 2007-10-21
Hello All,

Background:
1.IBM ThinkPad T30 Pentium 4 2GHz 1GB RAM
2.ATI Mobility Radeon 7500
3.Ubuntu 7.10
4.Not very expert in Linux
5.I realize this threat is not new but I've been looking at other places:
[http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_beryl_ati_radeon](http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_beryl_ati_radeon)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)
and I think that all this solutions start from a point where I am not.

What I intended to do:
I installed Ubuntu 7.10 and I wanted to apply the advanced visual effects. Compiz?
As I had no 3D acceleration I tried to ge it

What I did (and probably I shouldn't have done):
install the fglrx driver

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-generic restricted-manager
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
sudo depmod -a

later, and following what I found in the links above I did:
sudo modprobe -r fglrx
sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx; sudo apt-get install libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri

At this point I should edit the xorg.conf file but I'm not sure if I do not need to do anything else before as the file looks like this:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"dri"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Boardname	"ATI Radeon (fglrx)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"ATI"
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "device" #   
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"ATI Radeon (fglrx)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"ATI"
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection
Section "screen" #   
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" #   
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

it seems that the fglrx driver is still there??

the present resolution of the screen is 640x480 and I cannot change it from screen and graphics preferences (Yes, I admit I was a Windows user)

Any guidance or help on the steps forward will be highly appreciated.

Thank you

vvinuesaa

---

### Post by Zetheroo on 2007-10-21
Why didn't you go through the graphical methods of enabling compiz etc? Would have been MUCH simpler and straight forward!

:rolleyes:

---

### Post by disneyfriedhistory on 2007-10-21
I have the same laptop and i was able to get compiz to work, but its pretty taxing on resources (although you have more ram than me) and I found that I couldn't watch videos while it was enabled.  BUT, it still worked (and its easy to disable on the fly).  I'll post my xorg.conf file.  I think you need to be using the radeon driver, even though I've read elsewhere that the ati driver now works with the 7500
```

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
        Option          "EmulateWheel"          "true" 
        Option          "EmulateWheelButton"    "2" 
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AGPMode"	"4"
	Option		"AGPFastWrite"	"true"
	Option		"RenderAccel"	"on"
	Option		"MonitorLayout"	"LVDS, NONE"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```

Good luck!

---

### Post by Lil on 2007-10-21
Basically the T30 and any Radeon 7500 based graphics subsystem (Radeon 7000 and FireGL 7800 too) won't run using the fglrx driver. The fglrx (ATI's proprietary driver) is only for the Radeon 9000 (maybe 8500 too) and newer. Don't worry, I made the same mistake :D

Make sure xorg.conf uses the ati or radeon (best driver out of the two) as then Compiz should work as will the easy screen management with xrandr.

---

### Post by vvinuesaa on 2007-10-21
To Zetheroo, disneyfriedstory and Lil,

thank you for your answers, I did it that way because, being new with Ubuntu, I looked at the forums for information and among all what I found I choosed this. One great thing about Ubuntu is that the community is big, but at least for the beginner, that may be a bit overwhelming sometimes.

Honestly speaking, I do not know what the graphical methods of enabling compiz are. If you mean system – preferences –appearance – visual effects. I did it but “it” said that they could not be implemented. I thought that was because I did not have 3D acceleration.

I think you all agree that I shouldn't have installed the fglrx driver. However, my question is, how to get rid of it? Is it enough just to replace the xorg.conf by what disneyfriedstory provides and then probably restart? Should I do something else?

thank you again
vvinuesaa

---

### Post by romitch1 on 2007-10-23
Hi,

I'm having the same problem with a Dell Inspiron 5100 with a Radeon 7500.  The thing is, I was able to use the desktop effects in the 7.04 version of Ubuntu even with the live CD and the drivers that ubuntu chose for me.  After upgrading to Gutsy, no more desktop effects.  I'm totally new to Linux, so if anyone has any suggestions they would be much appreciated!

Thanks!

---

### Post by vvinuesaa on 2007-10-24
I'm also new with Ubuntu. I'm going to try to modify the xorg.conf file using the examples above. I'll post the results.

vvinuesaa

---

### Post by vvinuesaa on 2007-10-24
I just edit the xorg.conf and copied the device, monitor, screen and DRI section from the xorg.conf file provided by disneyfriedhistory above. save it, ctrl-alt-backspace to restart X and select extra in visual effects.

thank you everybody

vvinuesaa

---

### Post by pitzsche on 2007-10-26
Hello!

I'm using the same video card you do, I've been a ubuntu user for more than a year, and I have been into a lot of trouble trying to understand my video card...

At the end, is really simple to get it to use compiz or beryl, all you need to do is add 3 lines into your xorg.conf

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
[COLOR="Red"]	Option		"GARTSize"		"64"
	Option		"AGPMode"		"4"[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
[COLOR="Red"]	Option		"AIGLX"		"true"[/COLOR]
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


That's all, save file, restart X, and you can perfectly enable visual effects. maybe you won't have the quality you should expect, but is nice enough.

---

### Post by bruceli on 2007-10-27
i'm very new to Linux and Ubuntu. installed Gutsy today and i just tried the solution given by pitzsche and it works for me. thanks!

---

### Post by mudenza on 2007-10-28
The effects work fine for me, I wonder however if anyone is getting any visual glitches like in F-Spot slideshow, google earth or even any 3d game, wether we might need to add a few more settings to the xorg file?

---

### Post by kangyu29 on 2007-11-01
> **pitzsche said:**
> Hello!

I'm using the same video card you do, I've been a ubuntu user for more than a year, and I have been into a lot of trouble trying to understand my video card...

At the end, is really simple to get it to use compiz or beryl, all you need to do is add 3 lines into your xorg.conf

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
[COLOR="Red"]	Option		"GARTSize"		"64"
	Option		"AGPMode"		"4"[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
[COLOR="Red"]	Option		"AIGLX"		"true"[/COLOR]
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


That's all, save file, restart X, and you can perfectly enable visual effects. maybe you won't have the quality you should expect, but is nice enough.

Thanks, this does give me 3D effects, but it doesn't have any direct render.
$glxinfo |grep direct
is NO.

My laptop is DELL 5100, ati radeon M7500. 512Mb mem. 2.4GHz Pentium4. Bellow is the detail showing the steps I did for getting compiz running. 

    Right after a fresh installation:

    1, install xserver-xgl follow
    [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/CompizFusionATI?highlight=%28compiz%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/CompizFusionATI?highlight=%28compiz%29)

    2, of course I cannot login, so login to failsafe mode, and follow this thread
    
    modify xorg.conf by
    adding
    Option "GARTSize" "64"
    Option "AGPMode" "4"
    into Section "Device"

    adding
    Option "AIGLX" "true"
    into Section "ServerLayout"

    3, login and

    run glxgears
    X crash

    4, press "Ctrl+Alt+F1"
    change Option "GARTSize" "64" to Option "GARTSize" "32"
    and
    creat a file(any file, could be empty) call "disable" as "~/.config/xserver-xgl/disable".

    5, "Ctrl+Alt+F7" login. I can have all of the features come with Compiz. glxgears runs no problem, GL is working fine too.

BTW: I noticed that actually I don't even need Option "AIGLX" "true".

---

### Post by kangyu29 on 2007-11-01
> **mudenza said:**
> The effects work fine for me, I wonder however if anyone is getting any visual glitches like in F-Spot slideshow, google earth or even any 3d game, wether we might need to add a few more settings to the xorg file?

I haven't try anything you mentioned here, I don't usually play games:). so far so good.:)

---

### Post by it_col on 2007-11-01
[http://www.pcworld.com/article/id,130923-page,1-c,linux/article.html](http://www.pcworld.com/article/id,130923-page,1-c,linux/article.html) 

I have a radeon 7500, too. I followed these steps in this article and i installed beryl successful. It work okey now. I dont know why but why dont you use this article? :)

---

### Post by Vangelis on 2007-11-04
Thanks. I have a Radeon 7500 also and couldn't get the driver to work with 3D effects. The problem was that the installation loads the ati driver by default. When Compiz is turned on, it seems to work for a while but it is unstable and locks up every so often. So, I turned Compiz off.

I have now changed to the radeon driver (I didn't realise there was a difference) and turned Compiz on. Seems to be working fine now... I'll post if things start playing up again.

So, the tip is: change the Driver from ati to radeon in the Device section.

---

### Post by bomanizer on 2007-11-17
> **mudenza said:**
> The effects work fine for me, I wonder however if anyone is getting any visual glitches like in F-Spot slideshow, google earth or even any 3d game, wether we might need to add a few more settings to the xorg file?

I'm getting the glitches too.

---

### Post by bomanizer on 2007-12-02
The overall performance is improved with these mods in xorg.conf:

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
#####   Driver          "ati"
        Driver          "radeon"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "GARTSize" "64"
        Option          "AGPMode" "4"
EndSection

```

```
Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        Option          "AIGLX" "true"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

```

I'm not sure if this made a difference too, but since I do a little recording, etc. I installed the ubuntustudio-package which came with the lowlatency kernel. Perhaps the kernel upgarde boosted the overall gui-performance, 'cause my app windows feel "snappier" :) and windows with movies (totem, etc.) don't show that lag when you move them fast, sweet... 8)

 
Also, running Google Earth fullscreen with no toolbars removes the flicker.

-Cheers

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2007-12-25
So does glxinfo say you have direct rendering?  Because with these changes I got from 200-300fps to 1400 fps, but direct rendering still says it's off.  And if I try to run any 3D game they crash X.

Of course that may be because I'm running kdm instead of gdm.  Any thoughts?

---

