---
title: "amixer invalid card number"
date: 2005-05-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by IdoMcFly on 2005-05-05
I've changed a soundcard in a ubuntu box, since that I got no sound and at boot an sutdown, I hear multiple bips from pc speakers with some message from amixer :
Invalid card number

How can I get the number of my sound card and then how to configure it ?

---

### Post by IdoMcFly on 2005-05-05
more details :
I tried 
```
cat /proc/asound/cards
```

it says no soundcards...

so my soundcard is not recongnised ? it's a soundblaster Live 5.1 :/

EDIT : ouch lspci give me this : 
0000:00:0d.0 Multimedia audio controller: Creative Labs SB Audigy LS

so it is an audigy ?? I thought I've bought a live :/ anyway, how get this work ?

---

### Post by mrbaz on 2005-07-14
Mine does this same thing, but I'm such a n00b to linux I can't figure anything out.  It's just an older laptop with onboard sound.

---

### Post by mrbaz on 2005-07-14
[QUOTE=mrbaz]Mine does this same thing, but I'm such a n00b to linux I can't figure anything out.  It's just an older laptop with onboard sound.[/QUOTE]

I looked at it closer today.
lspci shows that I have a neomagic 256av soundcard (which is correct)

however, cat /proc/asound/cards comes back saying no soundcards.  What's the work around on this?

I've got the 3500 Dell Inspiron, and I've tried the IRQ setting thing in BIOS to either 07 or 09, but both settings return the same result.

If it helps any:
```

0000:01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Neomagic Corporation NM2200 [MagicGraph 256AV] (rev 12)
0000:01:00.1 Multimedia audio controller: Neomagic Corporation NM2200 [MagicMedia 256AV Audio] (rev 12)

```

---

### Post by Aaron.42 on 2005-07-16
Somewhere I read that this chip can emulate an 8bit soundblaster card.  That's not great but it would be something.  Unfortunately I don't know how to make it do that though.  Where does the amixer command get called in the startup?  I'm getting 17 beeps when starting my Inspiron 3500 and would like to disable it until I figure out how to fix it.  It's very annoying.

Thanks

---

### Post by Aaron.42 on 2005-07-18
Does anyone have a suggestion on how I can at least make it stop beeping?

thank you

---

### Post by Assembly on 2005-12-01
im stop this beeping.

im change file /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base for this code 

```
# --- BEGIN: Generated by ALSACONF, do not edit. --- 
# --- ALSACONF verion 0.5.10 --- 
alias char-major-116 snd 
alias snd-card-0 snd-card-cs4232 
alias char-major-14 soundcore 
alias sound-slot-0 snd-card-0 
alias sound-service-0-0 snd-mixer-oss 
alias sound-service-0-1 snd-seq-oss 
alias sound-service-0-3 snd-pcm-oss 
alias sound-service-0-8 snd-seq-oss 
alias sound-service-0-12 snd-pcm-oss 
options snd snd_major=116 snd_cards_limit=1 
options snd-card-cs4232 snd_index=0 snd_port=0x534 snd_cport=0x538 snd_isapnp=0 snd_dma1=0 snd_dma2=1 snd_irq=7 
# --- END: Generated by ALSACONF, do not edit. ---

```

my ubuntu don't see my soundcard (i have NeoMagic MagicMedia 256 AV) 

im find page [http://www.linuxfreunde.de/marl/mobile510/mobile510.html](http://www.linuxfreunde.de/marl/mobile510/mobile510.html) (this is my computer) but i can't install my soundcard to ubuntu

ps; im sorry for my english

---

