---
title: "Intel 945GM - Tearing!!"
date: 2007-12-06
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by apauloisdead on 2007-12-06
Seems like everyone with this graphics card is having the same problem... tearing.

The most noticeable time it happens is when a window is moved around, they get choppy.
You can see **horizontal** lines, and it looks like it's breaking along those lines.

This effect can make wobbly windows and such really ugly, it you get a bit of it during video playback.


As this is a fresh install of Gutsy, my video driver is **xserver-xorg-video-intel**.
I'm using Compiz, but i haven't changed settings, or enabled any plugins but the default one.

Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 950 is the integrated graphics card with 224 MB video memory.

This has been brought up by me and a few other people with the same problem in different threads, and it has never been solved.

I've read people suggesting something about vsync, but i don't think it solved anyones problem.

Could this be a bug, a driver issue, or something we can actually solve?


(Edit: Here's my xorg.conf)



# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by daengbo on 2007-12-06
My graphics are locked at 8MB. I can't get top resolution from the 22" monitor I bought. Meh. I can handle tearing.

---

### Post by Daelyn on 2007-12-06
> **daengbo said:**
> My graphics are locked at 8MB. I can't get top resolution from the 22" monitor I bought. Meh. I can handle tearing.

if you use the "VideoRAM" switch in Xorg you should be able to allocate as much memory to the card as you want.

Just remember that the switch indicates Kb and not Mb, so multiply the MB with 1024 and you should get it right.

---

### Post by damienduff on 2007-12-06
Hi apauloisdead,

How about giving "i810" driver a try.

Change 
Section "Device"
Identifier "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
[COLOR="Red"]Driver "intel"[/COLOR]
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

to 
Change 
Section "Device"
Identifier "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
[COLOR="Red"]Driver "i810"[/COLOR]
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-12-06
is there a feature like the nvidia "sync to VBlack"?  It only prints whole frames and actually significantly can reduce CPU/GPU usage, and also make things look smoother while running at a (possibly) lower framerate!

---

### Post by apauloisdead on 2007-12-13
I've been comparing my xorg.conf to others, and it seems my monitor section has no modeline...

...so no +vsync.


Also, i just installed conky, and i ran the default script, and it says -vsync.

Would inserting a modeline do anything helpful?

---

### Post by apauloisdead on 2007-12-14
Bump.

Does anyone with this chipset not have this problem? 

Is this a bug? Or something i can actually fix?

---

### Post by apauloisdead on 2007-12-18
bump

---

### Post by TubaTodd on 2007-12-19
I've had problems with my laptop (intel 950 video card) and an external 22" (1680x1050) monitor. I've been experiencing 2 horizontal lines on the screen that simply will not go away. The weird thing is that when I boot up, there is only about a 50% chance that this will happen. The other 50% of the time it's fine. I've had this problem in Ubuntu 7.10, Fedora 8 and Slax 6....only newer versions of these distros. I've had to resort to using Ubuntu 7.04 until this problem is resolved.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-12-19
I have an Aopen multimedia board with an Intel i945gm chipset.  I notice only slight flickering with wobbly windows, not tearing.  I have my BIOS set to 224 MB of shared memory running 1280x1024 at 85 Hz.  I'm using the "intel" driver.

Of course I'm running a 2.9 GHz, dual processor Pentium D. So that may be the issue.  If there is a bottleneck anywhere between the graphics and the processor that could cause a repainting issue.  I'm running 350 MHz memory speed, dual channel (pc6400 rated, with 4-4-4-12 latency).

With integrated graphics, you need to investigate where the bottlenecks are.  Since video memory is shared, graphics get interrupted by everything that calls for memory.

As far as TubaTodd's problems, are there any modlines or frequency settings that you can transfer from 7.04 to get them to work in the other distros?  It would seem to me that if it works in at least one linux distro then there is at least a chance that you can get it configured correctly.

---

### Post by apauloisdead on 2007-12-19
I doubt if its a bottleneck, because with vista installed running aero, i don't have this problem at all. Not even a hint, graphics are very smooth.

---

