---
title: "lenovo 3000 c100"
date: 2006-07-07
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by stevieb on 2006-07-07
Hi, new Ubuntu user here!

I'm getting a c100 this weekend, and am planning on installing Dapper Drake.  I would like to know what issues I can expect to have to deal with to get everything up and running, so that I can start looking up the relevant howto files (dialup access at home, but will have fios soon!) and print them out.  I have already taken a look at the thread on broadcom wireless cards, for example.

I've spent a little time messing around with DD on my desktop, like getting dialup to work, and am not afraid of the shell.  If anyone has the same computer, I'd appreciate a "heads up" on any particular issues, so I can prepare to address them myself or with my patient mentor, Dave.

-steve

---

### Post by FrancoNero on 2006-07-08
> **stevieb@verizonmail.com said:**
> Hi, new Ubuntu user here!

I'm getting a c100 this weekend, and am planning on installing Dapper Drake.  I would like to know what issues I can expect to have to deal with to get everything up and running, so that I can start looking up the relevant howto files (dialup access at home, but will have fios soon!) and print them out.  I have already taken a look at the thread on broadcom wireless cards, for example.

I've spent a little time messing around with DD on my desktop, like getting dialup to work, and am not afraid of the shell.  If anyone has the same computer, I'd appreciate a "heads up" on any particular issues, so I can prepare to address them myself or with my patient mentor, Dave.

-steve

I have a Thinkpad that's a little over a year old and had no hardware problems really. Lenovo isn't publicly explicitly supporting linux, but their products are known for quite good compatibility

---

### Post by wjp.reg on 2006-07-08
I have the N100 laptop with centrino duo core 2400, IPW3945abg wireless, SoundMAX (Intel HDA sound) and all is well and running beautifully.

The screen was supported after installing 915resolution and the 686 smp kernel identified the duo cpu.  Power management seems to be working fine too.  The only thing I can see that is not operational is the fingerprint scanner (no software?).

Cheers!!

---

