---
title: "NVIDIA IRQ X.org Error - Ubuntu problem?"
date: 2006-10-29
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by coringibson on 2006-10-29
Hey All -

I'm having an issue with something involving my video card, the NVIDIA drivers, and Ubuntu. I'm not really sure which one it is (if any), but here is whats going on. I'm running a brand-spankin'-new Edgy install with a GeForce 6800 GT 256mb.

When I boot, the Ubuntu splash comes up, then the tty login screen flashes on the screen (I assume X is trying to start)...that happens maybe three times, then it throws an X error that reads something like this...


> 
(EE) NVIDIA(0): The NVIDIA kernel module does not appear to be receiving
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      interrupts generated by the NVIDIA graphics device.
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      Please see the FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS section in
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      the README for additional information.


I checked the 'frequently asked questions' in the 'readme' and it told me this -

> 
This can be caused by a variety of problems, such as PCI IRQ routing errors, I/O APIC problems or conflicts with other devices sharing the IRQ (or their drivers).

If possible, configure your system such that your graphics card does not share its IRQ with other devices (try moving the graphics card to another slot if applicable, unload/disable the driver(s) for the device(s) sharing the card's IRQ, or remove/disable the device(s)).


I'm not gonna lie, I have no idea what that means. There are no other cards/devices using the PCI bus (nothing I've put in anyway).

I haven't changed any hardware or software settings in the past couple of days and I have been using my computer normally for six to eight hours a day. The only thing I could have possibly changed was an XGL setting in gdm.conf-custom, but I changed it back to no avail.

I tried installing the new beta drivers, rolling the drivers back to Ubuntu default, reinstalling the current drivers again, etc...nothing works.

I also tried another video card, an NVIDIA GeForce 4 MX (I think...it's a 64 MB card with DVI and VGA outs), and it kept giving me the same error.

Any ideas? Is this hardware failing on me? Or Ubuntu giving problems for some reason? I'm at a dead end, any help would be appreciated.

Thanks in advance...
cg

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-10-29
Have you tried running?
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

