---
title: "HP n3310"
date: 2007-01-31
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by sbmd on 2007-01-31
I have a HP Pavilion Laptop with a K6 500mhz and 256mb of ram and a 5gb hdd. 


I am trying to get ubuntu installed, but it does not seem to work, I have tried the server install and It goes through the install and when it reboots as soon as it says Starting Linux.... It reboots automatically everytime. Can anyone recommend a linux distro for this laptop, I have tried Xubuntu, ubuntu(desktop, alternate, and server installs), I am trying to have edgy or drapper I guess i do not care with e17 or fluxbox or something similar. 


Any help is all appreciated. Thankx for your time.

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2007-01-31
try damn small linux (DSL)

---

### Post by sbmd on 2007-01-31
Thankx I just burnt the disc for syslinux as the one for iso was giving me problems. So Is there a ubuntu with this old system setup init anywhere? I will keep looking, This laptop is not for me so I am trying to find the easiest distro for this not so savy person to use.

---

### Post by tcrroadie on 2007-01-31
> **sbmd said:**
> I have a HP Pavilion Laptop with a K6 500mhz and 256mb of ram and a 5gb hdd. 


I am trying to get ubuntu installed, but it does not seem to work, I have tried the server install and It goes through the install and when it reboots as soon as it says Starting Linux.... It reboots automatically everytime. Can anyone recommend a linux distro for this laptop, I have tried Xubuntu, ubuntu(desktop, alternate, and server installs), I am trying to have edgy or drapper I guess i do not care with e17 or fluxbox or something similar. 


Any help is all appreciated. Thankx for your time.

If you tried installing just a command line system using the alternate install cd, will it boot to the login prompt?  If you can at least get the "install command line system" to take, you can install any Desktop Environment (XFCE, Ubuntu, KDE) or Window Manager that you want from that point.  It is very easy.

Have you been able to run Ubuntu from the Livecd on your laptop?  You may just need to pass a kernel boot option such as acpi=no.  

As far as another distrobution to try, you can try PCLinuxOS.  PCLinuxOS is also a live cd with install option.

---

