---
title: "V3000t"
date: 2006-10-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Night on 2006-10-18
So I after saving all summer finnally got enought to order my laptop *hurray* well its going to arrive in about a week so Im trying to get all the info so I can work out any problems. Im getting the Compaq Persario v3000t with the new Core 2 Duo. I did a google search and the one report I could find for this laptop was positive so I'm hoping mine will be also.

**Stats:**
> 
    * Intel(R) Core(TM) 2 Duo processor T5500 (1.66 GHz)
    * 14.1" WXGA BrightView Widescreen (1280x800)
    * Intel(R) Graphics Media Accelerator 950 w/Ports
    * IMPRINT Finish + Microphone + QuickPlay
    * 1.0GB DDR2 SDRAM (2x512MB)
    * 60 GB 5400 RPM SATA Hard Drive
    * DVD/CD-RW Combo Drive
    * Intel(R) PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network w/Bluetooth


So first if anyone has this laptop I would love to hear what they have to say, to the rest of ya I have some questions. Anything big I should look out for, acpi for example? From what I have seen I don't have much to worry bout fromt he wirless card, which is one of the reasons I went for this laptop. Should I go for Ubuntu AMD64 or x86? I know you can get wine, flash, skype and the rest working under 64 but, is the hassle worth it. Wine is very important to me due to WoW, some really old games and a Church Program. Also I believe that the graphics card does support Compix + XGL from the little research I did on that. Well thanks for your time.

---

### Post by golfing22 on 2007-02-08
I'm thinking about purchasing this laptop? Is it still working well for you? Does acpi/sound/wifi work well also?

---

