---
title: "7.10 Kills my Toshiba!"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Echo35 on 2007-11-05
I was happily (as happy as you can be with a Toshiba) using Ubuntu 7.06 on my Toshiba Satellite M45. When I went to upgrade to 7.10 however, everything went downhill. The upgrade installed fine, but whenever I tried turning it on, instead of seeing the Ubuntu loading screen, I was greeted with a blank screen. For 8 minutes. Then it magically booted properly. I figured it was some sort of Kernel issue so I downloaded a 7.10 CD and tried reformatting. That failed also. All I got whenever I tried doing anything with the CD was a blank screen again, only this time it never worked, no matter how long I left it. The alternate install CD doesn't work either, and now I can't find my normal CD, so all I have is the alternate. Whats wrong with 7.10?

---

### Post by jimbren on 2007-11-05
When you try and boot from  a CD, are you seeing any activity from the CD ROM drive or the hard disk? 

I had a similar experience when I installed 7.04 onto a laptop recently, and it had me running scared for a few minutes.  Turns out that I needed to toggle the laptop display using (on mine) Fn+F8.  

If you're seeing activity, you might want to try that.  

I know it is sort of grasping at straws, but it worked for me.  

jimbo

---

### Post by Echo35 on 2007-11-05
Nope. I get nothing. Even when it worked and sat on the blank screen for a few minutes before letting me log in I had no activity whatsoever. its like its completely dead.

---

### Post by Echo35 on 2007-11-07
EDIT: When I install in safe graphics mode, it works fine, but no matter what I do, it still takes 8-10 minutes to boot!

---

