---
title: "iogear ps/2 kvm, 640x480"
date: 2005-09-02
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by soulglo83 on 2005-09-02
i use like stated in the title, a kvm. i use it to switch between my ubuntu box and my gentoo box. at first i could only get the monitor to work in 640x480 and even after editing my xorg.conf and adding hsync and vrefresh lines and a modline, and reducing my video resolution options, it still boots to 640x480 and is unchangeable in gnome. if i remove the kvm and boot with the moniter plugged directly into the card instead of the kvm, it loads gnome and gdm in 1280x1024 which is what i want.  has anyone encountered anything similar or would anyone be willing to help me, use the kvm and have ubuntu load the settings for my monitor everytime (which works fine, once booting with the monitor directly connected, i can add the kvm and it works flawlessley, even with correct resolution. it just cant be present at or near boot time.). can i force xorg to use the default settings and not scan for new ones every boot? or a better way to approach this maybe? i have even dpkg-reconfigureed server-xorg or whatever, and run the advanced level in that script. it boots and accepts the altered settings, but ignores them. attached is my xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

---

### Post by soulglo83 on 2005-09-04
so nobody can help me? no one knows of a way to force ubuntu to recognize certain settings instead of prodding for new ones with every boot? It is a bit silly having a gentoo box, an ubuntu box, and a windows liscense and cd. i do miss half life 2.... instead of two linux boxes i might as well have one for gaming and use the evilness that is ms.  I appreciate any thoughts anyone may have had about helping me.

---

