---
title: "conexant modem"
date: 2005-02-19
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by t3rm1n8r1x on 2005-02-19
i just started using linux on a dual boot with winXP, and i can't get it to find my  modem. it's a conexant Smart hsfi V92 56K df pci. I need someone to tell me how to get linux to recognize it. I'm running ubuntu 4.10 1386

---

### Post by Pete H on 2005-02-19
You might try linuxant.com.  they have drivers for some conexant modems.

Good luck
Pete H.

---

### Post by t3rm1n8r1x on 2005-02-20
alright, i went and got the driver, but now i'm having problems installing it. here's what it gives me:

sudo dpkg -i /media/sda1/hsfmodem_7.18.00.02full_i386.deb
(Reading database ... 63139 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace hsfmodem 7.18.00.02full (using .../hsfmodem_7.18.00.02full_i386.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement hsfmodem ...
Setting up hsfmodem (7.18.00.02full) ...
Conexant HSF softmodem driver, version 7.18.00.02full

If you need license keys, assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hsfconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Debian-testing/unstable linux-2.6.8.1-3-386 i686

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)
Please ensure that the kernel-headers or kernel-source package is installed.
On Debian, try "apt-get install kernel-headers-2.6.8.1-3-386"

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/usr/src/linux] /usr

WARNING: the kernel version (2.6.0-test7) defined in
/usr/include/linux/version.h
does not match the currently running kernel (2.6.8.1-3-386)
The cause of this problem is an incorrect kernel source path.
Please check that /usr points to the right tree.
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).

However, proper /boot/config-2.6.8.1-3-386 was found.
Would you like to try using it (in a temporary kernel tree)? [yes] yes

Unable to prepare temporary kernel tree

First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.

The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).

Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.

Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "hsfconfig".
dpkg: error processing hsfmodem (--install):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Errors were encountered while processing:
 hsfmodem

somebody want to tell me why what version.h says my kernel is isn't what i'm actually running?

---

### Post by az on 2005-02-20
To compile any kernel module (driver) you need the kernel source which exactly matches your running kernel.  You may save yourself the fifteen minutes (or longer, depending on how many mistakes you would make) and install the linux-headers package which corresponds to your running kernel.  The headers are all you need to build drivers - they are like a skeleton of a configured kernel.

If you are running the stock Warty kernel, install 
build-essential and linux-headers-2.6.8.1-3-386

You will find them on the cd.

You have a particularly problematic modem.  You have a choice of paying for proprietary drivers for whic you will be able to make drivers for a year (after the year, you will need to pay for the drivers again to keep up with newer kernel features and possibly security issues) or for pretty much the same ammount you would give to that company, purchase either a hardware modem which will not give you such a problem, or another companies software modem.

Most other software modems have some form of driver that works under linux.  They are mostly all non-free (free to obtain, but not open-sourced) for the moment.  These things can change very quickly as chipset manufacturers change hands...

A good ressource on software modems in linux:
[www.linmodems.org](www.linmodems.org)

---

### Post by t3rm1n8r1x on 2005-02-20
alright, i got the modem installed correctly, i think. but now, i can't dial out. i can hear it initialize the modem, then nothing.

sudo wvdial
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.54.0
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATDT593-3221
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT593-3221
NO CARRIER
--> No Carrier!  Trying again.

---

### Post by m4ng0 on 2005-02-20
Try changing "Dial Command" from ATDT to ATX3DT

---

### Post by t3rm1n8r1x on 2005-02-20
ok, how? i don't see that as an option in wvdial.conf

---

### Post by m4ng0 on 2005-02-21
It should be in the same section where are Init strings and Modem ([Dialer modem]). If you don't have it, just add
Dial Command= ATX3DT

---

### Post by t3rm1n8r1x on 2005-02-21
added the command, and it still doesn't work. maybe i should've been more specific when i said i can hear it initialize the modem, but then i can't even hear the dial tone. i don't know if that's because i can't turn the sound up or not. i'll try and fix that on my own, but i still need help getting it to dial out.

---

### Post by piedamaro on 2005-02-21
[QUOTE=t3rm1n8r1x]added the command, and it still doesn't work. maybe i should've been more specific when i said i can hear it initialize the modem, but then i can't even hear the dial tone. i don't know if that's because i can't turn the sound up or not. i'll try and fix that on my own, but i still need help getting it to dial out.[/QUOTE]
 You have to use nodialtone or something, it should be mentioned in linuxant documentation.

---

### Post by rundee_f on 2007-10-10
have u figured the problems? my laptop also using conexant hd softmodems,,, i hear the dial tone and so on,, but i still cant connect to the internet, my Firefox kept "Problem Loading Page"... i already installed the driver from linuxant.com..

any suggestions??

---

