---
title: "7.10 on a Thinkpad R50p"
date: 2007-11-28
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by hardran3 on 2007-11-28
**Ubuntu 7.10 working great on Thinkpad R50p**

***** Update 1:Suspend is still flaky. Sometimes the screen and keyboard lock up, but the mouse still works, it happens  about 30 seconds after resume. Requires a hard reset. :( *** **

**Update 2: ntp seems to have been causing the lockups. Added stopping ntp service to the acpi-support section**

Gutsy ran pretty good out of the box, just needed a few tweaks to be perfect. I used the xorg radeon driver, because ATI fglrx has troubles with resume on Gutsy. Compiz-fusion works great, suspend to RAM is working.

**acpi-support changes**
```
$ sudo pico /etc/default/acpi-support 
```

I couldn't get hibernate to work. So I removed the option.

```
# Comment the next line to disable suspend to disk
# ACPI_HIBERNATE=true
```

Also, for suspend to work correctly we must stop ntp on suspend, and restart on resume

```
# Add services to this list to stop them before suspend and restart them in
# the resume process.
STOP_SERVICES="ntp"
```



**xorg.conf changes**
```
$ sudo pico /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
```

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc M10 NT [FireGL Mobility T2]"
	# Change driver from "ati" to "radeon" to make suspend work.
        Driver          "radeon"  
	# Default = 1x AGP. glxgears went from ~1500fps (1x) to ~1750fps (4x).
        Option          "AGPMode"       "4"
	# Enable powerplay.
        Option          "DynamicClocks" "on"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```


**High Resolution tty's and boot**

640x480 terminals looked bad. Let's fix that.

First we remove the radeon framebuffer driver from the blacklist.
```
$ sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer 
```

# blacklist radeonfb


Now we want to load the frame buffer driver.
```
$ sudo nano /etc/initramfs-tools/modules 
```

#Enables higher resolutions for boot and tty's
fbcon
radeonfb

Update initramfs.
```
$ sudo update-initramfs -u -k all
```

And last but not least some changes to GRUB
```
$ sudo pico /boot/grub/menu.lst 
```

usplash has to be removed, messes up suspend to RAM somehow (wtf?). "quiet" could be left on if you are scared of scrolling text. vga=794 sets the tty resolution to 1280x1024. At 1600x1200 the text was too small for me.

Change your kernel boot line, remove "quiet" & "usplash" and add vga=794


**Various Annoyances**

I got sick of seeing intel_rng : FWH not loaded. So lets get rid of it
```
$ sudo pico /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```

This module throws an error every boot. Blacklisted with no ill effects.

# Intel RNG not found on R50p. 
blacklist intel_rng

I used [this guide]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89491") to trim some services I didn't need. According to bootchart, it takes 23 seconds to boot, from GRUB to GDM login.

This has been so much fun. I am glad I switched from a Mac. :) If anyone has more tweaks or hints, please add them, thanks!

---

### Post by jtp51 on 2008-02-01
I have the same ThinkPad. Thank you very much for posting this useful guide.

---

### Post by carbonfreeze on 2008-02-28
This should be added to thinkwiki. I always forget how to setup radeonfb on debian distros.

---

### Post by jcharroy on 2008-03-07
HI there, I've just started noticing this intel_rng: FWH not detected on mine as well. Don't know if it's been there the whole time but I'd like to know what it means, what this module does. Do you know? And is there a way to get it to work?

---

### Post by jcharroy on 2008-03-07
OK I just found the answer in another post, copied below:

>  Re: Compiling kernel specifying Pentium M
This shouldn't be a problem. Intel_rng is the Intel hardware Random Number Generator. FWH is the FirmWare Hub through which the RNG, if present, is accessed.

It is probable that your system doesn't have the harware RNG. You could simply stop the Intel_rng module being loaded by adding it to the modules blacklist.
__________________
TJ.
"The only intuitive interface is the nipple. After that it's all learned" 

---

