---
title: "Screen not usable after simple reboot"
date: 2007-06-02
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-02
Hi all,

I'm running Xubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn on a Toshiba Satellite 2805-S603 with a 1GHz PIII and 128MB or RAM*

Earlier today the PC became unresponsive with a lot of HDD activity, and so I physically rebooted the laptop. Upon doing so, X server refused to start, throwing the following error message:

> Failed to start the X server (your graphical interface)

It offered me the option of examining the logs for errors, and I found:

> FATAL: Error running install command for Nvidia
(EE) Nvidia (0): Failed to load the Nvidia kernel module
(EE) Nvidia (0): ***Aborting***
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration

I thought this may be due to the xorg.conf file being damaged, so I tried reconfiguring it using

```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

and then replacing the current xorg.conf file with the reconfigured one. However I still get the same error message :(. Since I can log in via the command line and see all my files, I'm pretty sure it's not an HDD problem.

Any ideas? Is this something I can fix on my own, or a sign of hardware failure? Will I need to reinstall or restore the OS from the installation disc? etc

Thanks a lot in advance for the help.


*Low, I know, but the laptop refuses to boot if more RAM is installed. Go figure.

---

### Post by blackened on 2007-06-02
Try running 

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

again and instead choose the vesa driver. This may at least get you back into X to further deal with the problem. Also, when you reconfigure it should automatically replace your xorg.conf, so you shouldn't have had to manually do it.

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-03
Tried that just now, didn't work :(

---

### Post by blackened on 2007-06-03
Hmm, have you looked through the /etc/X11 directory for an older (possibly working) backup of xorg.conf? Try to go by the date format given in the filename.

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-03
> **blackened said:**
> Hmm, have you looked through the /etc/X11 directory for an older (possibly working) backup of xorg.conf? Try to go by the date format given in the filename.

IIRC, I never really had to edit xorg.conf for my laptop because it worked right off the bat, so there are no backups I know of. I looked in the directory you mentioned anyway though, and saw none. What I did see, however, were xorg.conf.****** (where "****" is the date) files apparently generated from my reconfiguring efforts. As I said before, I'd tried manually replacing xorg.conf with one of those, but it didn't fix the problem.

Sooooo... what's the next option for me :(?

---

### Post by blackened on 2007-06-03
Are you still getting the exact same error even when trying to use the vesa drivers? What sort of graphics device do you have?

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-03
> **blackened said:**
> Are you still getting the exact same error even when trying to use the vesa drivers? What sort of graphics device do you have?
Yep. Same error. Card is an Nvidia GeForce 2Go 16MB.

---

### Post by blackened on 2007-06-03
That's weird that it would be complaining about nvidia kernel headers with the vesa driver selected. Ok, try this: run sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg again. Select the vesa drivers and then post the contents of your xorg.conf file. I'm assuming you're running a dual boot setup, so you may have to install the ext2 driver for Windows found at [http://www.fs-driver.org/]("http://www.fs-driver.org/") to be able to access the ext3 side of your drive.

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-04
> **blackened said:**
> That's weird that it would be complaining about nvidia kernel headers with the vesa driver selected. Ok, try this: run sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg again. Select the vesa drivers and then post the contents of your xorg.conf file. I'm assuming you're running a dual boot setup, so you may have to install the ext2 driver for Windows found at [http://www.fs-driver.org/]("http://www.fs-driver.org/") to be able to access the ext3 side of your drive.
Actually, the machine in question is the 2nd laptop in my signature. Both machines run their respective OSes exclusively since I've had terrible experiences with dual booting.

I've pulled the xorg.conf file from my X11 directory and shared it across the network via SAMBA to my XP Pro SP2 laptop:

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/gpmdata"
	Option		"Protocol"		"IntelliMouse"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 Go]"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-33
	VertRefresh	43-72
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 Go]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


See anything amiss?

---

### Post by blackened on 2007-06-04
Nothing odd that I can see, try reconfiguring and using the nv drivers instead. Maybe if the problem goes on long enough, then someone with some expertise in this sort of thing will post with some help.

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-04
> **blackened said:**
> Nothing odd that I can see, try reconfiguring and using the nv drivers instead. Maybe if the problem goes on long enough, then someone with some expertise in this sort of thing will post with some help.

Already did that.

Any way I could fix the issue from the installation disc? That worked perfectly when I first installed the OS...

---

### Post by blackened on 2007-06-04
You might try booting from the live CD and copying the xorg.conf that it generates. To do this you would need to mount your HD in the live CD's filesystem. This shouldn't be difficult though, 

```
sudo mkdir /media/mydrive
```

and then use (make sure you change *hdx* in the following line to point to your real partition)

```
sudo mount /dev/hdx /media/mydrive
```

then copy the file

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /media/mydrive/etc/X11
```

---

### Post by chadwick359 on 2007-06-05
I have a possible fix for this. Make sure that you have installed linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-16-generic installed instead of -15. I --purged nvidia-glx-new and nvidia-kernel-common and then installed the restricted modules first, and it worked fine.

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-kernel-common nvidia-glx-new
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-16-generic
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new
```

It may be possible to make this work by just running the second line, but this was the order that it occurred to me in. Hope this helps!

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-06
Didn't work :(. Thanks though.

Any other ideas?

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-09
Hey guys, is there any equivalent of "System Restore" on Xubuntu? I'm just wondering if there is, and if it might help my problem.

If not, is there any way I can reinstall the OS without losing my files? Do you think that might work?

Thanks again

---

### Post by blackened on 2007-06-09
There's no equivalent of system restore that I'm aware of. The best way to isolate your personal files from the core system is through good partition planning. During the installation process, you should set a partition for "/" with a size of 5-10 GB, a swap partition, and a partition for /home. That way if you have to reinstall, then you need only overwrite the "/" partition leaving the /home partition intact.

You could also use PartImage to save an image of the partition you want to restore. Aysiu gives some info on that at [http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/partimage]("http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/partimage").

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-09
Yikes. I'm totally screwed, then :(. Wish I'd known that before I started using the OS. Well, the ride was good while it lasted. I guess all I have now is home NAS of sorts instead of an actual laptop. But then again with Windows I'd have had neither since the PC was underpowered.

Thanks for the help :)

---

### Post by neptho on 2007-06-09
> **LANjackal said:**
> Yikes. I'm totally screwed, then :(. Thanks for the help :)

There has to be a way...  Have you hit 'ESC' at boot, chose 'recovery mode', then done a 'dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg', and tried to use the VGA driver?

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-11
> **neptho said:**
> There has to be a way...  Have you hit 'ESC' at boot, chose 'recovery mode', then done a 'dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg', and tried to use the VGA driver?Already done and failed :(

Hey BTW, does anyone here think that the monitor itself or some part of the hardware graphics system could have gone kaput from the reboot? I'm guessing this is unlikely since I can still see stuff on the screen (only X server won't load), but I'm just asking.

---

### Post by blackened on 2007-06-11
The only real solution to your problem (as far as I can tell) is to reinstall. This thread has been open for quite a while, so knowledgable people have had ample opportunity to chime in, but nobody has, which makes me think that your problem must be rather unique.

My suggestion for saving the data:

Invest in a Notebook to IDE adapter so that you can slave the laptop's drive into a desktop machine and grab the important files off of it. Then you can reinstall with a clear conscience.

---

### Post by LANjackal on 2007-06-11
Thanks for your assistance

---

### Post by blackened on 2007-06-12
> **LANjackal said:**
> Thanks for your assistance

I would call it less assistance, more commiseration. I'm really sorry not to have been more helpful.

---

