---
title: "Xorg weirdness on Edgy"
date: 2006-11-16
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by khaledaboualfa on 2006-11-16
Hey all I'm currently running Edgy on my Toshiba R100. I've got a Trident graphics card and there seems to be some xorg funkiness with Edgy as compared to Dapper which was running these things just fine and dandy.

Basically vertical scrolling is broken in that it screws things up when I go up and down, and secondly when I leave it to go idle, when it's energised as well, everything has been magnified like 4 times the size and I only see the top left hand side of my desktop.

When I installed edgy I had to go into recovery mode (because it didn't start x) and I put the following command:

```
dpkg-reconfigure -pcritical xserver-xorg
```

Any ideas how to solve this would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by khaledaboualfa on 2006-11-17
I'm going to post my xorg file, maybe someone can see a problem with it. It's for a Toshiba R100 with a Trident video card, I've not modified the file at all, as I said above I've only put that command in recovery mode to actually get things working after a fashion (given to me by those fine folks on the irc channel):
```

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XP4m32"
	Driver		"trident"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XP4m32"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```

---

### Post by egfrith on 2006-11-20
I've come up against exaxtly the same problem with my R100.
I've posted the information below to a bug report ([https://launchpad.net/bugs/57862)](https://launchpad.net/bugs/57862)).

> I seem to be having some success with the "EXA" acceleration method; see xorg.conf device section below. It seems to be important to have ShadowFB off with EXA enabled.

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XP4m32"
        Driver          "trident"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "AccelMethod"   "EXA"
        Option          "ShadowFB"      "false"        
EndSection

I've only just started using the trident driver, as I cannot get the vesa driver to work in Edgy. (see [https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/68814](https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/68814) 
)

The trident driver is still a bit buggy: 
* sometimes it changes resolution. Use Ctrl-Alt-F1, Ctrl-Alt-F7 to get back to the proper resolution
* AFAIK it doesn't work for data projectors.

I'm working on trying to understand why vesa is broken, but I haven't had much success yet.

---

### Post by khaledaboualfa on 2006-11-22
Thanks for the reply, I thought I was the only one with an R100 with Ubuntu on it for a moment there :). There's got to be more of us around.

I'm just playing around with the two options you've put forward and it seems to work. 

My next problem is the keyboard. I've got a British style keyboard which isn't being picked up properly, however if I go into keyboard preferences change to say a generic 105 keyboard, everything is fine. Did you have problems with the keyboard as well?

---

### Post by edgyonr100 on 2006-11-23
Xorg 7 is definitely not stable yet where Trident XP4m32 is concerned.  Granted, it's an old and rather obscure chip.  VESA driver does not work, trident worked but would drop resolution to something entirely unreasonable every time the screensaver kicked in.  I ended up using the framebuffer and fbdev driver in xorg.  This works but is rather slow.  Besides, my machines froze up solid a couple of times, had to do a cold reboot.

Didn't know about the AccelMethod and ShadowFB settings for trident, though.  Will try these in a few.  My oh my, it feels like time travel!  I didn't have this much fun tweaking X since circa '98 :)

---

### Post by edgyonr100 on 2006-11-23
Ok, the AccelMethod and ShadowFB settings were already there from dpkg-reconfigure.  The more annoying problem that I forgot to mention is that when you PgUp or PgDown, the image in the active window becomes smudged beyond recognition.  Now that I think about it, this was why I switched to framebuffer in the first place.  I will be switching back to fbdev now.  Any ideas?
  
> **edgyonr100 said:**
> Xorg 7 is definitely not stable yet where Trident XP4m32 is concerned.  Granted, it's an old and rather obscure chip.  VESA driver does not work, trident worked but would drop resolution to something entirely unreasonable every time the screensaver kicked in.  I ended up using the framebuffer and fbdev driver in xorg.  This works but is rather slow.  Besides, my machines froze up solid a couple of times, had to do a cold reboot.

Didn't know about the AccelMethod and ShadowFB settings for trident, though.  Will try these in a few.  My oh my, it feels like time travel!  I didn't have this much fun tweaking X since circa '98 :)

---

### Post by khaledaboualfa on 2006-11-25
edgyonr100, I've got to say that once I actually put the two options in the xorg file:

Option "AccelMethod" "EXA"
Option "ShadowFB" "false" 

I didn't have any of the scrolling problems. The problem of course is that when the computer goes idle and when you log in then you've got the massive resolution. I need to restart x in order to get it working (for those in the dark about how to restart x just press control-alt and backspace and you should be back in the login screen, everything should work normally from there). It's a bug even with those options above, but at least we're not subjected to the choppy graphics thing that we get without these two settings.

Is there a better way maybe of going back to an older version of xorg? Who should we be telling to sort this out, as in dapper it was working without any of these problems.

---

### Post by egfrith on 2006-12-04
I use Ctrl-Alt-F1, pause a bit, Ctrl-Alt-F7 to get back to the proper resolution. Sometimes this seems to cause the machine to freeze, but most of the time not.

I haven't had any problems with the keyboard... I think I used the relevant Gnome preferences menu item to fix that.

I'm currently working out whether I should put my (very limited) spare time into getting to the bottom of the vesa problem or helping out with the trident driver. My feeling is that getting to the bottom of the vesa driver is going to be quicker, though I'm also emailing the trident maintainer to see what the chances are of getting the driver to work.

---

### Post by khaledaboualfa on 2006-12-07
That would be pretty awesome, just to get the Vesa thing done then we could have a look into sorting out the trident thing. It's really bad but this problem has kind got me off my laptop to be honest. I'm not using it as much as I would like to which is a real shame.

The keyboard thing is just annoying more than anything to be honest. I might write some bug reports over the weekend.

So how would you go about installing another version of ubuntu on the machine if you had to, any ideas? THere must be a way directly from the internet right?

---

### Post by ArneLovius on 2006-12-21
I also have an r100, and I've gone back to 6.06. The scrolling issue was what made it unusable, being able to scroll down fine, but having scoling up unusable was just too much pain.

---

### Post by meb495 on 2007-01-21
I had the same problem upon upgrading.  Amazingly I just ran:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

And the problem was fixed after a restart!  I selected all the defaults in the reconfigure routine.  I'm running the VIA VT8237 on a Mirus box.

---

### Post by fitzy75 on 2007-11-29
Sorry to drag up an old topic but I am having similar issues with a Toshiba R100.

I am using Gutsy by the way.

When I cold-boot the laptop, after I login, the resolution goes really large (as in large icons and stuff) but the weird thing is that it's not the actual resolution that's changed, it's just kinda 'zoomed in' on the top left quarter of the desktop so this is the only area that I can see. I have managed to change the resolution to 800x600 and then back to 1024x768 and it works fine then (or if I restart X then it works as well).

The funny thing is that it seems like any change to the backlight makes it happen again. For example if I unplug the charger, the backlight dims as it normally does when running on battery but the screen goes really large again, but when it is running on battery I cannot get it to go back to normal size without plugging in the charger again.

It also does this if I change the screen brightness using the Fn+F6/F7 hotkeys.

I don't know much about linux but could it be a problem with the ACPI driver or something?

Also did anyone ever come up with a solution to making the Vesa drivers work?

---

### Post by nvm on 2008-02-10
hi

i'm using gutsy on the r100 too and have the same issue.. 
found this article: [http://borderworlds.dk/writings/freebsd_on_toshiba_portege_r100.html](http://borderworlds.dk/writings/freebsd_on_toshiba_portege_r100.html)

and saw he made a script.. so i did something like that too:

/usr/local/bin/fixscreen :
```

#!/bin/bash
gksudo chvt 6
gksudo chvt 7

```

now i can quickly move between tty6 and 7 back and forth..
dirty, i know. but it helps a bit.. 

hope somebody comes up with a real fix for this.. 
cheers

---

### Post by markonhismobile on 2008-03-16
> **fitzy75 said:**
> Sorry to drag up an old topic but I am having similar issues with a Toshiba R100.

I am using Gutsy by the way.

When I cold-boot the laptop, after I login, the resolution goes really large (as in large icons and stuff) but the weird thing is that it's not the actual resolution that's changed, it's just kinda 'zoomed in' on the top left quarter of the desktop so this is the only area that I can see. I have managed to change the resolution to 800x600 and then back to 1024x768 and it works fine then (or if I restart X then it works as well).

The funny thing is that it seems like any change to the backlight makes it happen again. For example if I unplug the charger, the backlight dims as it normally does when running on battery but the screen goes really large again, but when it is running on battery I cannot get it to go back to normal size without plugging in the charger again.

It also does this if I change the screen brightness using the Fn+F6/F7 hotkeys.

I don't know much about linux but could it be a problem with the ACPI driver or something?

Also did anyone ever come up with a solution to making the Vesa drivers work?

That's the exact same issue I'm having, I ended up with an R100 after my team leader wiped out the original Windows installation when trying to install Ubuntu with Wubi! It all went very wrong on the dist-upgrade and left it un-bootable. I eventually managed to get Ubuntu on using the HDD installer method but now have this odd resolution problem! The most annoying bit is that it always happens on battery which is most annoying and this laptop just begs to be used without being tethered to a power point!!

---

