---
title: "Hp 3550"
date: 2005-05-28
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Krank on 2005-05-28
Well, here goes another one...

I am the proud owner of a HP 3550 printer, which worked 100% fine under windows.

I simply cannot get the bastard to print under Ubuntu. I am currently attempting to get the [http://hpinkjet.sourceforge.net/](http://hpinkjet.sourceforge.net/) thingy to work.

downloaded it - check.
compiled it - check.
Installed it - check.

No error messages, nothing.

I find that the method mentioned in the official installation guide (using [http://localhost:631](http://localhost:631)) does not work ("blah blah disabled for security reasons"), and I therefore try adding the printer using the System->Administration->Printing graphical interface. It finds a printer on the USB port (it claims the printer to be a HP3500), and in the next dialog I find "Deskjet 3550", which is spot on. I "apply", and there it is - claiming to be "ready".

I try to print a test page. It queues the page, then does nothing. All I get is "printing: job-printing". Forever.

So, I ask, what is wrong? And most importantly, what would you suggest I do to fix it?

---

### Post by David Haas on 2005-05-28
Krank--I take it that the printer manager (System>Administration>Printing) recognized and listed your printer when you selected it from the list of HP printers, after clicking on "New Printer" to begin the selection. After selecting the printer model, you must select ("open") the PPD file for your printer. It's in the directory HP and it's HP-DeskJet_3550-hpijs.ppd.gz. This file is, I've read, written by HP for Linux and distributed free. You can click to this file in the printer manager GUI, beginning with /usr. The directory route is /usr/share/cups/model/foomatic-ppds/HP. In HP, you'll see the PPD file listed above. After selecting it by clicking on "open" after highlighting it, Linux will place an unzipped copy of this file in /etc/cups/ppd. I've found that after making a mistake in clicking on things in printer manager, that it's best to start over by deleting the chosen printer and beginning again with "new Printer". One more thing, check to make sure--in Synaptic package manager--that all the cupsys (except BSD) and foomatic packages are installed--they probably are. I installed my HP Deskjet 5740 and, before this, an Epson in this way. 
.

---

### Post by Krank on 2005-05-29
I get a "Error: Line longer than maximum allowed (255 characters) at 1:" and then the filename when selecting the .gz file you mentioned.

---

### Post by Krank on 2005-05-29
(nevermind; seems like the whole thing worked anyways, despite the weird error message... Printer works, case closed. Must have been something with one of the packages - I found that I did indeed not have all the foomatic and cups packages...

---

