---
title: "acer 3680"
date: 2007-09-25
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-09-25
wondering how well this computer runs on the latest 7.04 will be using external card not the one the computer has built in its is a netgear 511t which i know works as i have used it with 7.04 before

---

### Post by tdrusk on 2007-09-26
I am having slight soundcard issues (you have to change the volume with the surround slider)

Bluetooth does not work. 

You need to mess with xorg.conf to get the touchpad to scroll properly.

You need to use 915resolution to get the resolution right. Just install and restart x.

The computer functions without this stuff, just little things.

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-09-26
Not to be snippy or anything, but a search of the forums would have brought you a bunch of results that can get you started:

[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=429182"]   	
Acer 3680 Feisty Install Guide[/URL]

[ Desktop Hardware Compatibiliy List. ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=361236")  (Search for aspire 3680 in this thread)

[ Acer Aspire 3680 WiFi saga update...]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=551621")

[ HOW TO: Installing the acer_acpi module - activates wireless on Acer laptops]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224350")

There are actually a few more threads than that, but these should answer your questions OK.  

I also recently bought an Aspire 3680 and am very happy with it, especially since I got it for $398 at WalMart (it was on clearance).  One of the threads above is one I created on the WiFi problem experienced by some users.  Acer used a divverent version of the Atheros WiFi cards in different models.

-edit-  forgot to mention mine has a Celeron M 440 (32bit) processor.  It is snappy, but needs more RAM.  I'm getting a 2gig upgrade from Newegg ($75 matched Corsaire 667mhz).  If you put two matched sticks in the motherboard is supposed to run in dual channel mode for the ram, making the system operate even faster.

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-09-26
then if you did that to the computer with the more ram you could run ultimat of vista in theory which i would not do as i want a desktop for that eventually but as my linux box i want a cheap latop

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-09-26
> **PsycoGeek said:**
> -edit-  forgot to mention mine has a Celeron M 440 (32bit) processor.  It is snappy, but needs more RAM.  I'm getting a 2gig upgrade from Newegg ($75 matched Corsaire 667mhz).  If you put two matched sticks in the motherboard is supposed to run in dual channel mode for the ram, making the system operate even faster.

As I said, it is snappy as is.  I want more RAM because I want more RAM.  So if you are that much of a tight wad, don't add the RAM.  Simple as that.  Just stating what I'm going to do as an option for you.  And if you want to criticize people for posting to try and help you out, don't post.

Geez...  and learn to use the search...:mad:

P.S.  I'm not adding RAM for any Vista crap.  It's for Ubuntu...  The system has shared memory for video, and suffers a bit because of it.  You are limited in the amount of apps you can open if you want it to remain snappy.

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-09-26
for one thing most times i use search but when i try to get a specific answer say the acer i get thousand different post that have nothing to do with what i need answered or its so far buried in post or the post is so old it is no longer relative to that product anymore and eventually i will add ram but i can just afford the laptop it will be another six months or longer before i can or get a really good deal on ram as i have some bills that i am trying to pay off this is probable coming out of shared account with my parents as i help them out too as we went together and bought ourselves a new house and money is tight

---

### Post by tdrusk on 2007-09-26
> **ljonesj said:**
> for one thing most times i use search but when i try to get a specific answer say the acer i get thousand different post that have nothing to do with what i need answered or its so far buried in post or the post is so old it is no longer relative to that product anymore and eventually i will add ram but i can just afford the laptop it will be another six months or longer before i can or get a really good deal on ram as i have some bills that i am trying to pay off this is probable coming out of shared account with my parents as i help them out too as we went together and bought ourselves a new house and money is tight

Please don't get offended when people ask you to use the search. It helps prevent what you stated above from happening.

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-09-26
And please learn to use punctuation so that you post isn't a paragraph long run-on sentance that is hard to decipher.  

What I got upset with was the fact that you asked for opinions and info, which I gave you (as well as readily searchable links - search for aspire 3680, not just aspire), and then you basically came back at me raggng on the fact that I (not you) was adding more RAM to my (not your) laptop.  If you are going to do that, you may be better off not posting, because that kind of thing will probably NOT get you very far in the Ubuntu Forums.

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-09-26
PsycoGeek  i did not mean to rag you. When i have used 7.04 on a old dell desktop that is way more underpowered than the any computer in the last 5 years it has 192 megs of ram and built in 810 intel graphics i have just run one gig of swap. i have had several programs running but of course i dont have any special desktop affects running as they dont work on it. plus i have used search but and i read what i could but when i typed in acer and the model number stuff dealling on how to get a dvd burner running on edgy eft came up and sometimes i got stuff dealing with the model from 2006 and it ended in march 2007 which of course no help as i wanted current opions. so please forgive me for making u mad that was not my intentions sometimes i type before i think like talking

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-09-26
No problem.  All of the info you found on your search is relevant, though, to getting things working on the 3680.  I subscribed to as many threads as possible after getting my laptop so I didn't have to go back and find it again later.  Beleive me, it helps out already having it availiable in your account as a subscribed thread when something doesn't work.  Keep in mind too that the aspire 3680 is an end of life product, so anything from 2006 is viable information, as that's when this laptop was new, even though Ubuntu has progressed in version numbers.  That stuff can still help you out.

Getting back to the subject, the laptop is good overall.  It could still use more RAM, even if you only put in another 512mb of it.  

Oh, and thanks for the punctuation.  It really helps out with the reading.

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-09-26
i do have a ? for you do you have dvd movies running on your laptop. if so how good is the play back as i play a lot of movies on ubuntu as i like the playback better than the windows playback. as my windows laptop i have just got tired of a dual boot. as i have tools that are windows only and my windows machine i mess up quit often and ubuntu i have yet to mess up.

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-09-26
DVD playback was no problem after adding a few packages.  It works great.  Divix even works good from the DVD drive, with VLC Media Player that is.  With Mplayer Divix is choppy from the drive, VLC is smooth.

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-09-27
i have used vlc which i like so thats great news i say your idea of more ram will make mplayer divix run better maybe less choppy. we can hope

---

### Post by funnypanks on 2007-09-28
both of you should just point out if u put in 2 of the same ram modules in, update the bios to 1,3505(unless u already have it) previous bios' have a wierd freezing issue when there are 2 sticks of the same ram in the laptop

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-09-28
My BIOS is already 1.3.5.05, so I should be good to go.  Thanks for the info.

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-09-29
just got the acer aspire 3680-2682 from walmart and man its a great computer. dual booted the computer with vista. i have a game that has to be patched a ton with xp. so i hope i can get it to work with vista thats the only reason vista is still on the computer but i got every thing to work from everyones guide. i just did not use the internal card i have a external card that works great so physcogeek thanks for your help


well the game still did not run i would have had to patch to get it to run. so i went back and took vista off completely even the restore partion so its all ubuntu with gnome i will install all of kubuntu and xbuntu just to play around with

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-09-29
No problem.  Glad you like your Aspire...  They aren't that bad for an end of life product, especially with Ubuntu.  Can't wait for Gutsy to be released.

BTW, my RAM upgrade is on the way, along with 3 each: motherboards, 2 gigs of RAM, Dual Core 64bit intel processors, and nVidia 8600GT video cards.  I'm rebuilding all of the family's computers.  :biggrin:

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-09-29
wow thats a lot of computer. my family has 3 laptops and a old dell optiplex 110 that still runs 98

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-10-04
bump what is the ram speed of the acer i am getting some conflicts do you run 667 mhz or 533 mhz in this computer

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-10-04
> **ljonesj said:**
> bump what is the ram speed of the acer i am getting some conflicts do you run 667 mhz or 533 mhz in this computer

The installed RAM is 533mhz.  The RAM I installed is 667mhz.  Not sure if the board is taking advantage of the increased speed or not.  I don't have a good benchmark tool to judge that, but the RAM is working well so far.  glxgears is returning an average of about 1118 FPS.  Before the RAM upgrade it was averaging 928fps.  No problems encountered at all with anything else so far.

You can install either speed of RAM and it should work.  I opted for the 667mhz RAM because it was Corsair, which is a manufacturer that I trust with compatibility and reliability.  It was only a few bucks more than the lesser grade 533mhz RAM modules.

BTW, I now have a 533mhz, 512MB RAM module I don't need.  Anyone interested in it?

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-10-04
well i am thinking about adding 512 mb of ram just for now as i am running the beta of 7.10 so its taking more power to run and i would like to boost the graphics to max of its ram. i found it at office depot and its kingston for 25 dollars. as i dont know were your at i think shipping would shove that over my budget for now i have at least 2 gigs of swap partion i know thats much but i did that to help cover the low ram on the system

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-10-06
Well, I'm in the US, Pennsylvania.

Anyhow, I just wanted to let you know that one problem I was seeing has now disappeared since the upgrade.  It was with Firefox and embedded flash based video.  Trying to use the back button while the video was still playing would lock up the browser and I would have to force a quit.  Has not happened since I installed the RAM.

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-10-07
wierd i have not had that problem. would my swap size of 1.5 gig be the fix or were i am running gutsy beta at the moment.

P.S. i live in Tennessee so thats a good size shipping charge but on circuit city web site has a  1 gig stick for 40 that i am going to get tomorrow

---

### Post by PsycoGeek on 2007-10-07
Wouldn't have anything to do with the swap file.  Don't know why it was happening to me, but the problem has gone away after the upgrade.

RAM is gone, BTW.  Shipping it to someone on Tuesday.

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-10-07
i will get that 1 gig stick tommorrow any way then at least its more power

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-10-08
physcogeek you were right i got a 1 gig stick of ram and now this computer is fast

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-10-29
well just bought another 1gig ram chip so now its 2 gig of pc4200 the thing is i took out the 512 chip it is a pc5300 ram which is wild i thought it was pc 4200 and the acer sight says pc4200 on it too

---

### Post by AJB2K3 on 2007-10-29
Well im running a 3690 and was wondering if you got the media keys to work and how?

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-10-29
sorry to say mine worked out of th box with fiesty and gutsy so i had no problems with my media keys i did you my shortcuts to change my windows key to pause and someothers but thats just me.

what graphics card do you use mine has the intel 940 card and i heard getting that to work in fiesty gets the media keys to work and that card works out of the box with gutsy

---

### Post by AJB2K3 on 2007-10-29
Gcard is 945GMS/940GML/943 
upgraded from 7.04

Is this a bug in the update?
Should i just have fdisk and started again?

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-10-29
i really dont know from what i read the media keys dont work in fiesty without the intel graphics driver. try this just in case and see what happens sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel. if that does not work i have know clue. try searching for media key func for you specfic acer maybe that can help

---

### Post by AJB2K3 on 2007-10-29
Yep got that already installed.

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-10-30
i dont know then as my media keys just worked.

---

### Post by ezeze5000 on 2007-11-14
I'm getting ready to install Ubuntu-7.10-desktop on an acer aspire 3680-2682.
I am going to replace the hard drive with a new, pristine one. I will post in this forum as I progress through the install, and any problems that I have.
I noticed that there are several different wifi cards  that could be used in this laptop.
My card is a: BCM94311MCG, ( I'll let you know)
I'm running Ubuntu 7.10 (upgrade from 7.04) on my desktop PC right now and I really like it!

NOTE: I plan on starting a Linux Users Group in the Festus Missouri area soon.

Besides Ubuntu, I also have PC's with SuSe, gOS, FC6, and Puppy.
Puppy and Ubuntu are my favorites.

I almost forgot, I am running FreeNAS for data storage.

Well thats my two cents worth :)

---

### Post by ljonesj on 2007-11-15
good luck and why are changing your harddrive

---

