---
title: "Nvidia not recognizing widescreen properly?"
date: 2005-04-24
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by trivialpackets on 2005-04-24
Last real issue that I'm looking to overcome at this moment is the struggle with the nvidia drivers.  I'm using an HP ZF 5410, 64 bit processor with nvidia video card.  Hoary goes through with no issues whatsoever to install the system, as it did when I used it last.  But when I nvidia-glx-config enable, that goes through ok too.  When I restart, the screen has a black strip to the rights side of the screen about 1.5 inches wide and screen distortion at the bottom of the screen for almost an inch.  I think that it is due to the fact that I"m using a widescreen, and for whatever reason, it's not working properly.  I've tried adjusting the refresh rates, but to no avail thus far.  All of my resolutions are coming up as out of range, when I run some command that escapes me now.  Here is my xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Mac 32M/GeForce 440 Go 64M]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-67
	VertRefresh	30-60
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Mac 32M/GeForce 440 Go 64M]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by nad on 2005-04-24
You may have used the xvidtune program. Please post your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file in a code box (<code>...</code>. This will show the X servers calculations of valid modes. I hate to be a pessimist, but the new nVidia driver and xorg have not been playing nicely together lately.

---

### Post by Django on 2005-04-25
I had a similar issue with a mobile gforce card.

Once I loaded the nvidia module I got a 1024x768 screen in the top/left of my display, with some funky artifacts on the right and bottom.

I'm adding the sections I had to change for my xorg.conf to run in anything other than 1024x768.

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Mac 32M/GeForce 440 Go 64M]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option 		"IgnoreEDID" "1"
EndSection
```

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
        #defaults from 'nv' driver config
	#HorizSync	30-67
	#VertRefresh	30-60
	#Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
	DisplaySize 	330 216
	HorizSync 	31-80
	VertRefresh 	58-75
	Modeline 	"1280x800" 88.68 1280 1352 1488 1696 800 801 804 830 -HSync -VSync
EndSection
```

Those are the sections I modified and now I have the nvidia driver running sweetly at 1280x800.

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by nad on 2005-04-25
Thanks for the post. That was great. More people here need to know to use the no edid flag and a specified screen size for their xorg issues.

---

### Post by trivialpackets on 2005-04-25
Thanks Django.  That just about clears up any issue I had at all and am pretty happy with this.  It ran fine, seems to be up and running using my nvidia driver well, but when I tried to run America's Army as my test, when using the 3d rendering for the game, it reverted back to the other blacked out form only while the game was running.  It actually does it for supertux as well, which is clearly not so much of an issue, just one of curiosity at this point.

---

