---
title: "new PC, old HDD: x won't start"
date: 2006-02-28
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Koobi on 2006-02-28
Hi,
the motherboard on my old PC busted so i got myself a new PC with an ASUS motherboard. the thing is, when i start up linux, it loads the modules and all that but when it's time for X to start up, it says it couldn't start X and it's disabled because it's probably not configured properly. it also disables GDM because of this.

i believe reinstalling X should do the trick...only thing is i don't remember what the package was called. i can do it via apt-get, i just need the name...anyone know what it is? or do you have a better solution?

thanks for your time

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-02-28
try sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and choose correct settings (or defaults?) for your hardware.

---

### Post by Koobi on 2006-02-28
hey, thanks.

i could do what you said...but would it be easier for me to edit xorg.conf? i just thought about that.

this is my current xorg.conf
```

# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"speedo"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load	"xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xfree86"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:1:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"MCM 171E"
	HorizSync	30-72
	VertRefresh	50-160
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"MCM 171E"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x450" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x450" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x450" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x450" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x450" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x450" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```


this part is probably the problem:
```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:1:0"
EndSection

```

would **dmesg** tell me what i could replace those parameters with?

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-02-28
I think dpkg-reconfigure would be the quickest way to go, changing only whatever is needed to be changed... 

To change this manually: 
> Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:1:0"
EndSection
you need to know the name of the video module / driver (i810) and the bus id (lspci may help with that). 

I'd go with dpkg and let it choose whatever driver it sees fit (hopefully the correct driver).

---

### Post by Koobi on 2006-02-28
[QUOTE=towsonu2003]I think dpkg-reconfigure would be the quickest way to go, changing only whatever is needed to be changed... 

To change this manually: 

you need to know the name of the video module / driver (i810) and the bus id (lspci may help with that). 

I'd go with dpkg and let it choose whatever driver it sees fit (hopefully the correct driver).[/QUOTE]


hey, thanks for your reply, once again :)

i did try dpkg-reconfigure, it asked me the routine list of questions to configure xorg and i answered it as best as i could but i see no change at start up.

i even went through tty and edited xorg.conf using vim and adjusted some things but i still see no change.

do you think i should opt to reinstalling xorg?
would i do this?
```

sudo apt-get remove xserver-xorg
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg

```



thanks.

PS: i have a vague idea of what video modules my card might use, i also know the BUS ID i just dont know the driver. how could i find that out?

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-03-01
try checking what's going wrong with X (I don't think reinstalling will help)
```
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep WW
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep EE
```
or you could check the whole log with
```
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | less
``` This should give you an idea as to what's going wrong...

---

### Post by Koobi on 2006-03-01
i didn't grep for this, i just opened the file via Windows and did a search via vim. i have to use windows till i get ubuntu fixed :(

> 
(WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(WW) The directory "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic" does not exist.
	Entry deleted from font path.
(WW) The directory "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID" does not exist.
	Entry deleted from font path.
(WW) `fonts.dir' not found (or not valid) in "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID".
	Entry deleted from font path.
	(Run 'mkfontdir' on "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID")
(WW) Open APM failed (/dev/apm_bios) (No such file or directory)
(WW) Ignoring request to load module GLcore
(WW) Ignoring request to load module speed
(WW) Warning, couldn't open module xtt


(WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(II) Loading extension MIT-SCREEN-SAVER
(EE) Failed to load module "xtt" (module does not exist, 0)
(EE) No devices detected.




also, at the bottom, it mentions this:
> 
Fatal server error:
no screens found

just thought that might be of help.




btw, what do the EE's and WW's in parenthesis mean?


thanks again for your time, i appreciate it :)



PS: really hope i can get this fixed soon. i keep hitting my shortcut key for the terminal and nothing happens :/

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-03-01
I don't think I will be able to help from here on, as I cannot understand what the error means... You might want to google the error and see what others did. For example, try sudo modprobe xtt and than startx. If that doesn't work, edit your xorg.conf so that instead of <whatever>, it will say vesa as the device driver for your video card. This gotta put you back to the desktop. Did you compile your driver? if so, try recompiling, but make sure that you are using the right driver for the right hardware. As a last resort, boot with the live cd to see if X works in there. If it works, check the xorg.conf of the livecd for any differences, especially the busid and driver used for video card. also, try to find where your xtt module is ( with locate xtt ). I do not have a file with that name in my system. Other than these, I've got no idea... You might wanna attach (as a file) your xorg.conf and Xorg.0.log here for someone who knows this stuff to look tru... sorry... Oh, EE means error, II means information, WW means warning.

---

### Post by Koobi on 2006-03-01
it turns out there's a driver installation guide for my chip/graphics

i've linked to the instructional PDF but it's specifically for RH9.0, would it be a problem if i used this same technique on Ubuntu? there's also these two other PDF's for SUSE and Fedora, which should i go for?
here's the PDF: [http://koobi-studio.com/linux/Readme.pdf](http://koobi-studio.com/linux/Readme.pdf)

one thing though, the link in the PDF is dead...i did a quick search on google, and it points to this:
[http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=420&OSID=18&CatID=2080&SubCatID=110](http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=420&OSID=18&CatID=2080&SubCatID=110)

i'm not too sure what that all is or if its advisable to try it on ubuntu. help anyone?


ubuntu uses x.org and not XFree86, right?


thanks

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-03-01
you could try to see if it works, being extremely careful not to physically hurt your monitor or your hardware (it warns you when you need to be careful). Most of the stuff in that pdf should be okay in ubuntu except that it uses xorg. check out the other two and see if any use xorg. 

general notes I can think of: 
backup your files just in case
backup configuration files before editing them
if it wants you to install an rpm package, search the forum for how to use alien to convert rpms into deb before installing. 
you can keep being root by issueing sudo -i

PS. were you able to get in X by using the vesa driver in xorg.conf? just curious.

---

### Post by Koobi on 2006-03-02
your idea to boot with the live CD and then compare its differences in xorg was your best idea :) that did the trick for me.
of course, this means i'm not utilizing all of my VGA's power but i don't really need all of it..i just want to be able to see 24 colours on linux which is fine with me. maybe i can experiment with the drivers some other time when i have more time on my hands.

thanks :)


btw, vesa works, but not by itself, i had to make the identifier "Generic Video Card"

let me know if you want to see my current xorg.conf or any other h/w specs if you're curious. and thanks, once again :)

---

