---
title: "2.6.10 DMA slowness"
date: 2005-08-22
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by tmilam on 2005-08-22
Sorry to post another thread about DMA problems  :-# 

But this one is different, I promise! Here's the deal - I'm getting

```
/dev/hda:
 Timing buffered disk reads:    2 MB in  4.26 seconds = 480.94 kB/sec


```

I followed the DMA guide here: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DMA?highlight=%28DMA%29](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DMA?highlight=%28DMA%29)

That didn't help, either. This is with the 2.6.10 default kernel for hoary. I have a fairly new chipset. Maybe this is causing the problem? The funny thing is that if I use the 2.6.11 kernel - which everyone tells me not to use - I get roughly 16MB/s on hdparm. I've been using the 2.6.11 kernel cause Ubuntu is painfully slow at 480.94KB/Sec  :-| 

Any suggestions?

Here are my modules from /etc/modules:
```

atiixp
amd74xx
ide-cd
ide-disk
ide-generic
lp
mousedev
psmouse
sbp2
sr_mod



```

And also, here is output form lspci:


```
0000:00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 Host Bridge (rev 01)
0000:00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc: Unknown device 5a3f
0000:00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
0000:00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
0000:00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller0000:00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 11)
0000:00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc Standard Dual Channel PCI IDE Controller ATI
0000:00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge
0000:00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge
0000:00:14.5 Multimedia audio controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
0000:00:14.6 Modem: ATI Technologies Inc: Unknown device 4378 (rev 02)
0000:00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
0000:00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
0000:00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
0000:00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
0000:01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc ATI Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
0000:05:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
0000:05:02.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
0000:05:09.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCIxx21/x515 Cardbus Controller
0000:05:09.2 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Texas Instruments OHCI Compliant IEEE 1394 Host Controller
0000:05:09.3 Unknown mass storage controller: Texas Instruments PCIxx21 Integrated FlashMedia Controller
0000:05:09.4 0805: Texas Instruments PCI6411, PCI6421, PCI6611, PCI6621, PCI7411, PCI7421, PCI7611, PCI7621 Secure Digital (SD) Controller
```


I would like to use kernel 2.6.10 because there is no restricted modules package for 2.6.11 (no ndiswrapper) and also I've had alot of problems trying to build the ati driver against 2.6.11.

---

### Post by locutus42 on 2005-08-24
If you can, change that title to something more descriptive along the lines of:
2.6.10 DMA slowness on HP/Compaq [model number]
since your problem is not generic DMA issues but is specific to your hardwares ATI chipset.

That problem is the atiixp module in the 2.6.10 kernel doesn't support DMA without a small patch. Look for threads in these forums on the R4000 and you'll find the answer

or

check out this forum thread:
[http://www.zv6000forums.com/viewtopic.php?t=291](http://www.zv6000forums.com/viewtopic.php?t=291)

---

### Post by locutus42 on 2005-08-24
deleted msg

---

### Post by tmilam on 2005-08-24
While I was waiting for someone to answer my post (thank you for your reply btw) I tried out the 2.6.12 kernel vanilla sources. Now I'm not having this issue...thanks!

---

### Post by locutus42 on 2005-08-25
[QUOTE=tmilam]While I was waiting for someone to answer my post (thank you for your reply btw) I tried out the 2.6.12 kernel vanilla sources. Now I'm not having this issue...thanks![/QUOTE]

I hope your still read the forum thread I listed. If you did then you know that you won't get accelerated support for your ATI Radeon 200M video device. THAT can currently only run on the 2.6.10 kernel with some patching. If you're a newbie, then you should probably stay where you are until ATI releases a driver that works without patching.

BTW, what laptop do you have?

---

### Post by Jiilik on 2005-08-25
2.6.11 in hoary universe also fixes this problem, although as with using anything but 2.6.10, you will lose the restricted modules (wifi and fglrx most likely in your situation)

---

### Post by tmilam on 2005-09-01
[QUOTE=locutus42]I hope your still read the forum thread I listed. If you did then you know that you won't get accelerated support for your ATI Radeon 200M video device. THAT can currently only run on the 2.6.10 kernel with some patching. If you're a newbie, then you should probably stay where you are until ATI releases a driver that works without patching.

BTW, what laptop do you have?[/QUOTE]

I have the v2000z. I built my own kernel from scratch from the latest sources on kernel.org

I've now been using this kernel for about a week and it's awesome.  \\:D/ 

ATI drivers work great too with this kernel! Just roll your own kernel and you don't have to worry about not having modules (i.e. using the 2.6.11 kernel in hoary)

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2005-09-21
I have a Compaq V2321US and was having problems also... After messing around in gentoo, I got my DMA working with 2.6.12, and ATI has drivers specifically for the Xpress200 on their site, both for 64bit and 32bit

---

### Post by locutus42 on 2005-09-22
[QUOTE=cyberdork33]I have a Compaq V2321US and was having problems also... After messing around in gentoo, I got my DMA working with 2.6.12, and ATI has drivers specifically for the Xpress200 on their site, both for 64bit and 32bit[/QUOTE]

This is all because the 2.6.10 kernel Ubuntu uses has 2 lines in the atiixp.c file which are incorrect for the ATI IXP chipset. Changing those to lines and rebuilding the kernel fixes the DMA problem AND the ATI driver will install. Actually none of the ATI drivers install without somekind of patching but the patch for the 2.6.10 kernel is the easiest. IMO.

Here are the 2 lines in /usr/src/linux-source-2.6.10/drivers/ide/pci/atiixp.c which need replacing:
{ PCI_VENDOR_ID_ATI, PCI_DEVICE_ID_ATI_IXP_IDE, PCI_ANY_ID, PCI_ANY_ID, 0, 0, 0},
{ PCI_VENDOR_ID_ATI, PCI_DEVICE_ID_ATI_IXP2_IDE, PCI_ANY_ID, PCI_ANY_ID, 0, 0, 0},

replace with:
{ PCI_VENDOR_ID_ATI, PCI_DEVICE_ID_ATI_IXP200_IDE, PCI_ANY_ID, PCI_ANY_ID, 0, 0, 0},
{ PCI_VENDOR_ID_ATI, PCI_DEVICE_ID_ATI_IXP300_IDE, PCI_ANY_ID, PCI_ANY_ID, 0, 0, 0},
{ PCI_VENDOR_ID_ATI, PCI_DEVICE_ID_ATI_IXP400_IDE, PCI_ANY_ID, PCI_ANY_ID, 0, 0, 0},

BTW, there is a script written for the Compaq R4000 which should work for your laptop too since it uses the same ATI Graphics chip and ATIIXP chipset. I don't know if you have a builtin WiFi card or if your CPU speed is problematic( off by 2X ) like the Compaq R4000 and HP VZ6000 is. The script also fixes these things. Search for R4000 and you should find the thread on this.

---

