---
title: "2.6.19.1 Kernel missing SATA /dev/sda (wont boot)"
date: 2007-01-02
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by RosscoAU on 2007-01-02
Hi Folks,
            I've successfully installed Edgy on a IBM Thinkcenter M52 with a 300Gb SATA drive.  The problem starts when I'm trying to upgrade my Kernel to 2.6.19.1 (The Ubuntu/Debian way as per [http://www.howtoforge.com/kernel_compilation_ubuntu](http://www.howtoforge.com/kernel_compilation_ubuntu) ) to support my DTV2000H DVB card.  The new kernel creates the SATA drive as /dev/hda instead of /dev/sda.

The kernel was built using the current Edgy config for 2.6.17 by copying the current config and then make oldconfig and accepting the defaults for the (new) items.

I could reconfig Grub and fstab for the new kernel but I'd like to keep it the same as the default kernel which recognises the SATA as sda

Can anyone offer some ideas on how I can resolve this

TIA

Ross

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2007-01-02
You might just need to pick a kernel.  From what I understand, libata is advancing pretty fast, and I think sd? is getting changed back to hd?.  sd? were so named because the SATA drivers made use of some SCSI infrastructure (SCSI disks are named sd?).  

It's a huge mess anyway.  I remember having lots of problems when I updated to 2.6 and my SATA was suddenly called sda.

---

### Post by Tyl3r on 2007-01-02
You need to compile as static the SATA support (there is a specific new tree) and as modules al the sub-modules in that tree.
I had the same problem but after that it worked.

Sorry for my bad english :(

---

### Post by RosscoAU on 2007-01-03
Tyl3r,
You're 100% correct. Since the new kernel moved to libata the default settings carried across from 2.6.17 did not include SATA support.  I recompiled the kernel including support of the SATA ICHx chipset and all is well (as far as I can tell so far I haven't looked at any optimizations yet, get it working first).

Not much wrong with your English either :)

---

### Post by Tyl3r on 2007-01-03
Good to know RosscoAU, I battled with the kernel for the same reason and then I came to this solution :D

---

