---
title: "How to make better use of my graphics card"
date: 2006-03-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Lucho on 2006-03-11
So, I've been using Breezy 64-bit for a while, and almost everything 
is the way Windows promised and never delivered (sorry, I couldn't
resist ;) ). One thing though is that when I do something graphical-
XMMS visualisation, glxgears, etc- the CPU usage goes to 100%. I'm
by no means an IT guru, so can someone explain to me why this happens?
Or for that matter, how do I shift more of the work from the CPU to the
video card (ie, a real overlay)? Here's my hardware, if it helps

AMD64 3400+ 759 pin
1 GB RAM 
Abit Mguru mobo
Turtle Beach Montego DDL soundcard
Seagate HDD 120 GB 7200rpm
Maxtor HDD 20 GB 5400rpm
Nvidia NX 6200  AGP 8x video card

      Am I just nitpicking, or is something not the way it should be? Video works
fine, but that CPU usage just doesn't look right.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-03-11
Did you install nVidia driver for your video card?  I would try that first and see what happens to your CPU when you run those things over again...

---

### Post by Lucho on 2006-03-11
Oops, I forgot to put that :oops: 
 I have the Nvidia 7667 driver from the repositories installed,
along with that Nvidia settings panel. Twinview is on, and seems to
like both my 15" monitor and my 29" tv.

---

### Post by varunus on 2006-03-11
Your CPU is high and you have the NVIDIA driver installed?  That's really weird...

Can you post your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file and your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file here?  Also, what happens if you type "glxinfo | grep rendering" into a terminal?

One way to offload graphical processing onto the card is with the Composite extension.  This will use your card to do everything.  Unfortunately, Breezy's implementation of it is largely experimental (you'll have problems and graphical glitches).  The best way to do it, IMO, is to install Dapper Drake (the testing release) and XGL.  Smooth, GPU accelerated desktop combined with sweet graphical effects.  You can read the threads there about it.

If you want to stick with the stable release of breezy, then graphical processing on the card isn't quite possible yet.  That said, OpenGL should still be offloaded to the card (so glxgears should not have CPU usage).

Can you post what I asked for?

---

### Post by Lucho on 2006-03-11
When I type glxinfo it gives me all kinds of info; it *does* declare my driver
as nvidia 7667. Grep rendering did nothing; the cursor appeared to be waiting
for something (if that makes any sense); CPU usage went to 13%.



And here's my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file
```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"abnt2"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"br"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"abnt2"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"MSI nx6200"
	Driver		"nvidia"
        Option 		"RenderAccel" 		"true"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	VideoRam	262144
        Option         "TwinView"
        Option         "TwinViewOrientation" "Clone"
        Option         "TVOutFormat" "SVIDEO"
        Option         "TVStandard" "PAL-M"
        Option         "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "30-50"
        Option         "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "60"
        Option         "MetaModes" "1024x768,1024x768;800x600,800x600;640x480,640x480;512x384,512x384"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Syncmaster 551v"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-57
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"MSI nx6200"
	Monitor		"Syncmaster 551v"
	DefaultDepth	24
#       Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"

	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```
The forum won't let me post my /var/log/Xorg.o.log- too long, it says. I'll
 attach it.  Once again, I forgot to mention that I'm running the std resolution of
1024x768 at 60hz.

---

### Post by varunus on 2006-03-11
Hmm...nothing looks wrong with your configuration.  Is your card one of those "TurboCache" 6200s?  If so, then there's nothing you can do about it...but it doesn't look like your card is.  (TC is a fancy way of saying "this card uses your system RAM as VRAM, and is generally bad for your overall health.")

Does your system get unresponsive while running glxgears?  Or is there CPU load but you can still work at normal speeds?  Try watching a movie in totem while glxgears runs...Is it slower than normal?

I know glxgears does some of its work on the CPU even if you have direct rendering.  (Raising your CPU speed will raise your glxgears score.)  If you want to try composite, which will do a lot more of the gfx work on the NVIDIA card, you can check out this howto:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75527](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75527)
But, you'll notice many bugs.  Once dapper drake comes out, if you upgrade, you can enable XGL, which will make everything run on the card and in opengl.  Its great, I'm using it now...Tons of nice special effects, and very little lag from CPU usage (as NVIDIA is currently implementing the last extension needed to make the thing completely graphics card driven in their drivers).

---

### Post by Lucho on 2006-03-11
It's not a TC 6200. This is the first time I've heard of it. From what you
say, it seems like I'm not missing much.
   When I run glxgears I can play DVDs in totem almost normally. The 
speed is normal, but the image is a bit blockier (less deinterlacing, maybe?)
and the fps of glxgears drops by a third. 
  About composite: I won't rule it out, but I'm still learning all the tricks of 
breezy (and 64-bit OSs in general). Untill I've learned a bit more, I'd rather
stick with breezy a little bit longer.

---

### Post by varunus on 2006-03-12
Well, if totem still lets you watch the movie (even with less deinterlacing) you're probably OK...glxgears does some of its work on the CPU (hence why it isn't a good graphics card benchmark).  Can you play games like Planet Penguin Racer fine?  (You can install that one from synaptic.)  Also, you may want to try upgrading to the new NVIDIA drivers, which are much better at just about everything (there's a howto in the "customization tips and tricks" section of the forum).

---

### Post by Lucho on 2006-03-12
Interestingly enough, when I run a movie in Xvid the fps in glxgears suffers
less then if I run a DVD by almost 100fps; normally glxgears gives ~3700-3900,
which drops to ~2250 with DVD, and ~2350 with Xvid. Same resolution on both.
   I installed Planet penguin racer and gave it a test drive. With video and audio
configs run up as high as possible I get an average of ~160fps, with occasional
peaks of 200fps or so. I'm not sure about CPU usage because I ran it in fullscreen.
   I already use the Nvidia 8178 driver on my Debian 3.1 (Sarge, upgraded to Etch)
installation; same thing happens, same results. What's frustrating is that Breezy
is 64-bit, and Etch is 32-bit give the same video performance; Glxgears consistently
varies less than 30fps between the two. Same thing with Kanotix 64 and Kurumin
5.1

---

### Post by Lucho on 2006-03-12
Well, well, here's an update that sheds some light on the subject. I was
using Superkaramba for info. I had forgotten that Superkaramba is
not reliable; it was giving me 100% cpu with glxgears, but using "top"
the cpu was only 45%-48% in 64-bit breezy, and a consistent 53% in
32-bit Etch. Still high, but a bit closer to normal. 
  So, now I've got to remember to take Superkaramba with a grain of
salt.

---

### Post by varunus on 2006-03-15
Yeah, superkaramba and gdesklets (the gnome equivalent) are CPU and RAM hogs.  I don't use them because of this, actually.

You won't see any super-high performance gains with 64-bit unless the program specifically requires a lot of memory access.  64-bit really doesn't provide that much benefit for most stuff you'd use like word processing or email or some light games.  Heavy games, however, you'll see some large improvements.

Also, certain codecs for video are only 32-bit, so running a 64-bit OS won't help you at all here.

Honestly, I decided to stick with 32-bit on my AMD64; some stuff just works better that way (flash, cedega, wine, etc).

---

