---
title: "Power Management Issues on an Lenovo IBM ThinkPad T60p running Compiz with XGL"
date: 2007-07-19
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by WickedAx on 2007-07-19
I have a Lenovo IBM ThinkPad T60p laptop.  Here are the relative specs:

Processor: Intel Core 2 Duo (2.0 GHz)
Graphics Card: ATI Mobility Fire GL V5250 256 MB
OS: Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn) 32-bit
Kernel: 2.6.20-16-generic
Graphics Driver: ATI Restricted Driver

Here is the situation...

I'm running Compiz as my compositing window manager.  In order to get Compiz working on my box it was necessary for me to also install XGL.  Compiz (and the rest of the machine including the fingerprint reader, wireless card, etc are all working trouble free); however, the one problem I'm having is with power management.  I'm coming from the land of RedHat and Fedora and the last version of Fedora I was running (FC4) was still using XScreenSaver.  With Feisty Fawn the default being used is Gnome Screen Saver that's coupled with the Gnome Power Manager.  I have no problem getting the Gnome Screensaver to activate at the appropriate idle time.  I also have no problem getting the machine to suspend at the idle time I set in the Gnome Power Manager.  I am however, having a problem getting the display of my laptop to sleep.  Usually, I setup my laptops so the screensaver activates after 3 minutes of inactivity, then after 10 minutes (8 for battery power) I set the display to sleep, and then after 25 minutes of inactivity I have it set for the entire machine to sleep.  The screensaver is kicking in at the appropriate times and the machine is sleeping at the correct time but the display never sleeps.  The only way that I can get the display to sleep is to set the Xserver option "StandbyTime" in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  Unfortunately, while this successfully puts the display to sleep, the Gnome Power Manager has no control over the display sleeping because it is now being controlled by Xserver.

It's important to note that when using a non-XGL session (just regular Gnome) everything works as it should.  This leads me to believe it may be an XGL issue but I'm not entirely sure.

Here is what I've done so far...

I've ensured that the DPMS option exists in my monitor sections of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

I've added the following options to my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to ensure that Xserver doesn't control power management:

Section "ServerFlags"
        Option  "BlankTime"     "0"
        Option  "StandbyTime"   "0"
        Option  "SuspendTime"   "0"
        Option  "OffTime"       "0"
EndSection

I've checked to ensure that the USE_DPMS option is set to true in my /etc/default/acpi-support file.

I had uninstalled Gnome Screensaver and Gnome Power Manager and installed Xscreensaver.  I set the appropriate idle times for the screensaver and the display standby but this did not fix the problem.  I then uninstalled Xscreensaver and reinstalled Gnome Screensaver and Gnome Power Manager.

I used the gconf-editor to modify the ac_dpms_sleep_method and battery_dpms_sleep_method values in /apps/gnome-power-manager.  I tried default, standby, suspend, and off for both of these values and none of them made a difference.

I believe those are all of the changes I've made up to this point.  Just for completeness I am including the contents of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf and /etc/default/acpi-support files at the bottom of this post.

Any help that can be given in remedying this problem will be greatly appreciated!  Thanks so much!

-WickedAx

xorg.conf file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"
        Inputdevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

        # path to defoma fonts
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        Fontpath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        Fontpath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load            "i2c"
        Load            "bitmap"
        Load            "ddc"
        Load            "dri"
        Load            "extmod"
        Load            "freetype"
        Load            "glx"
        Load            "int10"
        Load            "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"      "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Horizsync       36.0    -       52.0
        Vertrefresh     36.0    -       60.0
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        Option          "VendorName"    "ATI Proprietary Driver"
        Option          "ModelName"     "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Generic Video Card"
        Driver          "fglrx"
        Busid           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Driver          "fglrx"
        Option          "VideoOverlay"  "on"
        Option          "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Generic Video Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   1
                Modes           "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   4
                Modes           "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   8
                Modes           "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   15
                Modes           "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   16
                Modes           "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   24
                Modes           "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
        Device          "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Monitor         "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport        0       0
                Depth   24
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
        Option          "Composite"     "0"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
        Option  "BlankTime"     "0"
        Option  "StandbyTime"   "0"
        Option  "SuspendTime"   "0"
        Option  "OffTime"       "0"
EndSection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

acpi-support file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Comment the next line to disable ACPI suspend to RAM
ACPI_SLEEP=true

# Comment the next line to disable suspend to disk
ACPI_HIBERNATE=true

# Change the following to "standby" to use ACPI S1 sleep, rather than S3.
# This will save less power, but may work on more machines
ACPI_SLEEP_MODE=mem

# Add modules to this list to have them removed before suspend and reloaded
# on resume. An example would be MODULES="em8300 yenta_socket"
#
# Note that network cards and USB controllers will automatically be unloaded 
# unless they're listed in MODULES_WHITELIST
MODULES=""

# Add modules to this list to leave them in the kernel over suspend/resume
MODULES_WHITELIST=""

# Should we save and restore state using the VESA BIOS Extensions?
SAVE_VBE_STATE=true

# The file that we use to save the vbestate
VBESTATE=/var/lib/acpi-support/vbestate

# Should we attempt to warm-boot the video hardware on resume?
#POST_VIDEO=true
POST_VIDEO=

# Save and restore video state?
# SAVE_VIDEO_PCI_STATE=true

# Should we switch the screen off with DPMS on suspend?
USE_DPMS=true
#USE_DPMS=false

# Use Radeontool to switch the screen off? Seems to be needed on some machines
# RADEON_LIGHT=true

# Uncomment the next line to switch away from X and back again after resume.
# This is needed for some hardware, but should be unnecessary on most.
# DOUBLE_CONSOLE_SWITCH=true

# Set the following to "platform" if you want to use ACPI to shut down
# your machine on hibernation
HIBERNATE_MODE=shutdown

# Comment this out to disable screen locking on resume
LOCK_SCREEN=true

# Uncomment this line to have DMA disabled before suspend and reenabled
# afterwards
# DISABLE_DMA=true

# Uncomment this line to attempt to reset the drive on resume. This seems
# to be needed for some Sonys
# RESET_DRIVE=true

# Add services to this list to stop them before suspend and restart them in 
# the resume process.
STOP_SERVICES="mysql "

# Restart Infra Red services on resume - off by default as it crashes some
# machines
RESTART_IRDA=false

# Switch to laptop-mode on battery power - off by default as it causes odd
# hangs on some machines
ENABLE_LAPTOP_MODE=true
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by stenka on 2007-10-02
This is insteresting. I am have exactly the same problem with my sony laptop, and I am to curious to learn what is causing this trouble.

---

### Post by stenka on 2007-10-04
I switched from acpi-support to pm-utils, and this is now much better !

So, acpi-support and gnome-power-manager don't match well together... Nothing to do with XGL !

---

