---
title: "Fstab correct?"
date: 2007-06-06
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by KitChy on 2007-06-06
Right so today I finally had chance to install Feisty. All's gone well, everything set-up how I like it. However, I seen that it would only give me read privs. So I followed a site that told me to do the following:

sudo apt-get install ntfs-config

So I did this and all installed okay. However for some reason my HDD's won't mount AT ALL now. Meh!

So anyways, could anyone tell me where or what is wrong with my fstab please?

K


> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=00c15b53-2b6b-4ddc-b7a1-0a71a6f643ad / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb3 :
UUID=0EE8755BE87541CF /media/hdb3 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb4 :
UUID=901C0DB01C0D9300 /media/hdb4 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=6C5CD0275CCFEA42 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb2 :
UUID=85646abd-2e32-477e-89f2-acfa57906165 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by mlind on 2007-06-06
You're probably talking only about your ntfs partitions? Do you have ntfs-3g installed already? Are the volume ID's correct? (use *sudo vol_id /dev/xxx* to find out).

---

### Post by KitChy on 2007-06-06
Checked all the I.D's and they all seem to be correct and yeah I mean all of my NTFS partitions!

---

### Post by mlind on 2007-06-07
> **KitChy said:**
> Checked all the I.D's and they all seem to be correct and yeah I mean all of my NTFS partitions!

Try adding *umask=0007,gid=xxx* as additional options to each ntfs-3g mount in your /etc/fstab. the xxx should be the group id you want to use. I'm using **plugdev** (43 in my system), so all plugdev members can read/write in the partition. If you want the permissions just for yourself, use the group you're in to (initial user's group should be 1000 in Ubuntu).

To see all the groups: *less /etc/group*
To see the groups you belong to: *groups*

Here's the /etc/fstab entry I'm using
```

UUID=121C05B31C0592C1   /media/E   ntfs-3g  locale=fi_FI.utf8,umask=0007,gid=46   0   1

```

---

### Post by KitChy on 2007-06-08
> /dev/hdb4 /media/drive1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0

That's basically the code that I had to use in "fstab" to get my hdd's to mount and to enable write access. Thanks for your help guys! 

x

---

