---
title: "HP dv6500t - DVD-RW will not mount (cdrom)"
date: 2007-08-16
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by dansen926 on 2007-08-16
I pretty new to Ubuntu (and Linux in general), and my hp dv6500t CTO laptop has been causing me problems mounting the cdrom. I believe my DVD drive is on the SATA bus, but I can't get it to mount at all. It worked just fine using the liveCD, but for some reason I can seem to mount it in 7.04 (standard install or alternate)

listings in my /dev/ folder are as follows:

sda1 = NTFS for my Windows Installation
sda2 = ext3 for Ubuntu
sda3 = ??? Probably my CD-ROM drive

sda5 = swap space

It's also weird to note that there is no sda4 listed, either. Any ideas?

In the meantime, I booted back into my Vista for a sec to burn a CD, and I found this out about the DVD drive:

MATSHITA DVD-RAM UJ-851S

ATA Device

Location 0 (Chaneel 0, Target 0, Lun 0)

\Device\Ide\IdeDeviceP0T0L0-0

Hardware Ids:
IDE\CdRomMATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________1.50____
IDE\MATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________1.50____
IDE\CdRomMATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________
MATSHITA_DVD-RAM_UJ-851S________________1.50____
GenCdRom

Parent:
PCIIDE\IDEChannel\4&3a525db8&0&0

I don't know if this will help, but to me it looks like it's not a SATA device, uses an IDE controller on the PCI bus, and it's the first thing on that bus...interesting.

Here's what I've got in fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# -- This file has been automatically generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=5cdf8f33-d711-47cd-aac8-110cca74f72c / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=1f2ce904-d95f-478f-a0eb-d07bcd10a482 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/vista ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0

Well, I'm glad it can be seen at least. definitely looks like an IDE device, but again, idk what is keeping the device from mounting. There is no "hda" in the /dev/ folder, how strange is that?! So what do I mount?

my /dev/disk/by-path listing is as follows:
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part1
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part2
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part3
scsi-1ATA_WDC_WD1600BEVS-60RST0_WD-WXC607077374-part5

So fiesty sees all of my partitions, at least. Oh, I also found out that the sda3 entry was an ext3 partition that Ubuntu uses.

my /dev/disk/by-id listing is as follows:
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part1
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part2
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part3
pci-0000:00:1f.2-scsi-0:0:0:0-part5

Again, this is only my hard drive, but I wonder if the pci bus location gives anything away. this is just a shot in the dark, but maybe the DVD-ROM is at pci-0000:00:00 ??

I'm still very much a n00b, as you can see :popcorn:

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-08-17
Are you using any special kernel parameters? Sometimes those will make things like that act funny. I have that same laptop and CDs seem to mount fine.

---

### Post by dansen926 on 2007-08-17
I'm not using any special parameters that I know of. Is there anyway to check what parameters I'm loading with? I just installed Kubuntu with the alternate install with everything as default as possible.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-08-17
Try this. At the Grub screen press "e" on the kernel then you'll see 4 different lines. Highlight the the line that says "kernel" and press "e" again. Then add this to the end of that line.
```
all_generic_ide
```
So it should look something like 
```
/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=1f7fdc5e-fedf-4170-b281-989c00d37c11 ro quiet splash **all_generic_ide**
```
That's the kernel parameter I'm using and I removed it to test this out, and my CD drive stopped mounting CDs. I added it back and it worked again.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-08-17
Forgot to add after adding all_generic_ide hit Enter and the "b" to boot the kernel with the added parameter.

---

### Post by dansen926 on 2007-08-18
**Excellent!** You were right! I pressed 'b' to boot with those parameters, and it worked just fine :)

Thanks a ton!

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-08-18
You're welcome! Glad it's working now:)
Now you can make it permanent by editing your Grub menu.lst.
```
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```
Go down to the bottom and you'll see those same lines. Fine the one beginning with kernel and just add the all_generic_ide to the end.

---

