---
title: "NVidia resolution not working with nvidia driver?"
date: 2005-11-27
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by hampton275 on 2005-11-27
Firstly, I just want to say WOW!!! Every single piece of hardware worked right off the bat on my new laptop, using 5.10. I was absolutely amazed. Great job to the whole dev team!!!

As we all know in Linux there is always that one thing that never goes right.For me it's my "256MB NVidia® GeForce Go 7800 GTX works" / "17" WideSXGA+ 1680 x 1050 LCD Clearview Display".

I I use the 'nv' driver I get the full 1680 x 1050 resolution, but as soon as I use the 'nvidia' driver I get 1024x768. I ran a diff on my xorg.conf before and after and the only change wa the mv/nvidia line. The resolutions were all correct. Since they were almost exact I didn't post it, but if needed I will, just ask. :)

Any help would be most appreciated, as it is the only hiccup in the whole install..

TIA

---

### Post by frodon on 2005-11-28
Ok, even if your xorg.conf didn't change could you post it here and tell us the full name of your screen ?

It's just for basic verifications.

---

### Post by hampton275 on 2005-11-28
Thanks for looking into this. ;) nv or nvidia is the only difference 

ken@Alien:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "GLcore"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
        Driver          "nv"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-84
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    16
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1680x1050"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1680x1050"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1680x1050"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1680x1050"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1680x1050"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1680x1050"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by frodon on 2005-11-29
I find your horizontal and vertical refresh rates a little bit low, could you give me the exact name of your screen or the hsync and vertsync parameters specified in your screen specification.
Then i will give you back a modified version of your xorg.conf.

---

### Post by hampton275 on 2005-12-01
Frodon,
     Thanks a tonne for your help. TBH I am finding it a wee bit difficult. The manual doesn't list the V, H rates. All my docs have is WSXGA+ 1680x1050. Since it is dual boot(due to a game I like, which I want to run through Linux, hence all the video questions) I have dicvered it is 60 hrz(with an option for 59). I will try to cal the manufacurer to get more in the mean time.

TIA Really appreciate it.

---

### Post by frodon on 2005-12-01
Could you put here the name of your screen so i will be able to search on internet the information i'm looking for ?

---

### Post by hampton275 on 2005-12-02
Frodon,
     I bought an Alienware desktop replacement and have a call into them for more details. Great units, but the support has a lot to be desired.

     I will post as soon as I get feedmabck from them. Basically what I posted so far is all I have.
     Thanks again for your assistance.

---

### Post by hampton275 on 2005-12-06
This is everything they would give me. TIA

Specifications of the 17.1" 1680x1050 WSXGA display

    * Manufacturer: LG Philips
    * Model Name: LP171W02
    * Clear Bright (Gloss finish): Yes
    * Active Area[mm]: 367.4 x 229.6
    * Outline Dimension[mm]: 382.2 x 244.5
    * Thickness[mm]: 6.6
    * Resolution: 1,680 x 1,050
    * Aspect Ratio: 16:10
    * Pixel Pitch[mm]: 0.219(116)
    * Number of Colors: 262,144(6-bit)
    * Luminance[cd/m2]: 170(tpy 5p)
    * Color Saturation(%): 6.5
    * Weight[g]: 760
    * Contrast Ratio: 400:1
    * Viewing Angle:
          o Up 120
          o Down 120
          o Left 140
          o Right 140
    * Response Time[ms]: 25

---

### Post by Joe_CoT on 2005-12-06
> This is everything they would give me. TIA

So basically, they gave you everything **but** the horizontal and vertical syncs. nice.

Googling around, i found [this article](http://www.linuxworld.net.nz/sager9860wiki/index.php?title=X.org_setup) on linuxworld. It seems that you might need to force your nvidia driver to display at that resolution. the article has the example settings for the nvidia driver, and while those are for a different yet similar monitor, it might require a bit of tweaking for yours. hope that points you in the right direction.

---

