---
title: "Disabling tap-to-click on Synaptics touchpad...nothing works!"
date: 2005-05-29
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by Whitewolfe on 2005-05-29
Ok, it's a Compaq R3000, running the Hoary Hedgehog release.  I'm using KDE and have KSynaptics installed in Control Center.  I've also edited xorg.conf as recommended in numerous areas within these forums and elsewhere.  Specifically, I have the 'Load "synaptics"', 'Option "SHMConfig" "on"', and 'Option "MaxTapTime" "0"' lines in place in xorg.conf.  I've also gone  into Ksynaptics and disabled taps altogether.

In spite of all that, and enough reboots to become really darn annoying, the taps continue to be on.  It's as if the system is just ignoring all those configuration options.

The only thing I haven't tried messing with is the Synclient thing.  I am suspecting that some entry in some boot-script is calling Synclient and UNDOING my configuration options.  Unfortunately, I have no idea how to track that down.  (Linux Skill Level:  Hazardous (I know just enough to be dangerous)).

Any thoughts appreciated and YES I've searched the forums and googled my brains out for two days.  Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Whitewolfe on 2005-05-29
[QUOTE=Whitewolfe]Ok, it's a Compaq R3000, running the Hoary Hedgehog release.  I'm using KDE and have KSynaptics installed in Control Center.  I've also edited xorg.conf as recommended in numerous areas within these forums and elsewhere.  Specifically, I have the 'Load "synaptics"', 'Option "SHMConfig" "on"', and 'Option "MaxTapTime" "0"' lines in place in xorg.conf.  I've also gone  into Ksynaptics and disabled taps altogether.

In spite of all that, and enough reboots to become really darn annoying, the taps continue to be on.  It's as if the system is just ignoring all those configuration options.

The only thing I haven't tried messing with is the Synclient thing.  I am suspecting that some entry in some boot-script is calling Synclient and UNDOING my configuration options.  Unfortunately, I have no idea how to track that down.  (Linux Skill Level:  Hazardous (I know just enough to be dangerous)).

Any thoughts appreciated and YES I've searched the forums and googled my brains out for two days.  Thanks in advance.[/QUOTE]

Update:  Ksynaptics says the Shared Memory thing is configured correctly.  Synclient says it isn't.  Utterly incomprehensible.

---

### Post by ::DoGG:: on 2005-05-29
I have presario r3000 too and i just get used to it :D 
P.S. couls you post me your xorg.conf ?

---

### Post by Whitewolfe on 2005-05-29
Ok, here ya go.  I can tell you one thing, when I try to set the "Synaptic Touchpad" to "CorePointer", it breaks X.

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"synaptics"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
	Option		"MaxTapTime"		"0"
	Option 		"SHMConfig"		"on"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Go 32M]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-67
	VertRefresh	30-60
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Go 32M]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by iammike on 2005-05-30
I'd really like an answer to this as well...I swear I got it to stop working on Slackware awhile back but don't remember how.  Shucks.  haha

---

### Post by linuxfanatic1024 on 2006-06-15
What I did is I created a "Link to application" in ~/.kde/Autostart with this command:```
synclient MaxTapTime=0 MaxTapMove=0 MaxDoubleTapTime=0
```Touchpads are so annoying with that tapping feature turned on...

---

