---
title: "6.06 LTS &amp; bcm43xx driver question?"
date: 2006-10-11
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by bobmct on 2006-10-11
:confused: Gentlemen;
I've been trying to get my wifi functional for about a month now with no luck.  Thank god the LAN works.  But that's not the purpose of a laptop!

When I run lspci | grep Broadcom I see displayed an undefined device as "bcm4311" so at least this device is "seen".

When I run modprobe -c |grep bcm43 I see several lines displayed as aliases for bcm4301, bcm4318 and other all pointing to the bcm43xx driver.  My research/reading indicates that the bcm43xx driver is included in 6.06 and I believe the above confirms that.

However, it appears that because my exact device of bcm4311 is NOT included in the alias list the association is NOT being made meaning that the device is non-functional.  I hope I'm understanding this correctly.

Therefore, is it possible to ADD the bcm4311 device name to the modprobe alias list to also associate it to the included bcm43xx driver?

If so, then please explain the technique/command/utility necessary to accomplish this?

Any help GREATLY appreciated.

Bob](*,)

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-10-11
This may help [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Dapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Dapper)

---

### Post by mssever on 2006-10-12
> **SD-Plissken said:**
> This may help [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Dapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Dapper)

Just so you know, NDIS did NOT work for me, but the bcm43xx kernel driver did. I used the link above to set up my wireless (Broadcom BCM4306).

---

### Post by trubblemaker on 2006-10-17
More links to the same in my signature

---

### Post by discord on 2006-10-18
I could not get the bcm43xx driver to work with the 4311 in ubuntu 6.06 . The bcm43xx driver does not yet fully support the 4311. I have it working in 6.10 but it is unreliable. However the ndiswrapper driver works great for me both in 6.06 and 6.10 . You need to blacklist the bcm43xx module and install ndiswrapper.

---

### Post by manishk on 2006-11-05
I use the same card (4311). But Ubuntu Wiki says that Ndis works only on a x86....I use an AMD Turion X2 (64-bit dual core) on my laptop, what should I do?

---

### Post by trubblemaker on 2006-11-06
there are some 64 bit drivers on this howto
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=197102&highlight=install+ndiswrapper](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=197102&highlight=install+ndiswrapper)

---

### Post by Grashopper on 2006-11-06
> **discord said:**
> I could not get the bcm43xx driver to work with the 4311 in ubuntu 6.06 . The bcm43xx driver does not yet fully support the 4311. I have it working in 6.10 but it is unreliable. However the ndiswrapper driver works great for me both in 6.06 and 6.10 . You need to blacklist the bcm43xx module and install ndiswrapper.

I've tried this a few times..  I had first installed the 64 bit version (of both 6.06 and 6.10), and it didn't work.  Then I installed the x86 version and it still doesn't work.  I followed these instructions to the "T":  [http://www.seungpyo.com/stacksandpiles/2006/07/02/broadcom-wireless-in-ubuntu-dapper-606/](http://www.seungpyo.com/stacksandpiles/2006/07/02/broadcom-wireless-in-ubuntu-dapper-606/)

and that didn't work either.  Do I need to install both the .sys file and the .inf file?  Should I install one over the other?  Is the fact that I have to boot up by adding noapic into the kernel boot line a factor in all this?  Thanks for any assistance..

---

### Post by trubblemaker on 2006-11-06
> **Grashopper said:**
> I've tried this a few times..  I had first installed the 64 bit version (of both 6.06 and 6.10), and it didn't work.  Then I installed the x86 version and it still doesn't work.  I followed these instructions to the "T":  [http://www.seungpyo.com/stacksandpiles/2006/07/02/broadcom-wireless-in-ubuntu-dapper-606/](http://www.seungpyo.com/stacksandpiles/2006/07/02/broadcom-wireless-in-ubuntu-dapper-606/)

and that didn't work either.  Do I need to install both the .sys file and the .inf file?  

sort of, you should have both files in the same folder and then run
```
 ndiswrapper -i <driver>.inf 
```
the out put of :
```
 ndiswrapper -l 
``` will give you an idea if the driver loaded properly
```
 
dmesg | grep ndiswrapper

```
will tell you if ndiswrapper loaded properly. (If dmesg... is blank, it's not loading.)

> **Grashopper said:**
> 
Should I install one over the other?
[quote]
the file that ends .inf
[QUOTE=Grashopper;1724211]
{  Is the fact that I have to boot up by adding noapic into the kernel boot line a factor in all this?  Thanks for any assistance..
shouldn't make a difference.  I pretty sure, but if someone knows for certain add. feedback.  (I'm pretty sure noapic, is power-management related so shouldn't be altering the driver's loading)

---

### Post by coln_sanders on 2006-11-07
I'm relatively new to Linux in general, and I've been trying to get my laptop's wireless to work.  I've looked through many of the how-to's and such, but nothing seems to work.  The wireless nic in my laptop is a Broadcom 4309.  I've tried using ndiswrapper, but nothing I did worked.  I'm using dapper 6.06.  Is there something I'm missing along the way?  The basic thing I've been trying is found [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=25683").

Any help is greatly appreciated... I'm about ready to throw my laptop out the window.

---

### Post by trubblemaker on 2006-11-07
why don't you try building the from source code, it worked for me and it's made custom for your machine, if you already have the drivers for ndiswrapper I've made a simple howto [ these instructions]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1719106&postcount=51").  If you get any errors or messages you think are wierd, post back here and I'll help you.  I have heard from some people that that howto doesn't work for them.

---

### Post by cbruno on 2006-11-07
For the latest Broadcom chipsets, do not use the version of ndiswrapper included in the Dapper repositories. Download the latest stable release of ndiswrapper (1.28) and use it with the bcml6 driver. You should have more success.

---

### Post by trubblemaker on 2006-11-07
good to know about the dapper code thanks.

---

### Post by coln_sanders on 2006-11-08
Ok, I used the script that you put in trubblemaker, and it seems to have worked so far.  I haven't had the chance to test if it connects, but the wan0 connection showed up.  I'll have a chance to test it in about an hour, so we'll see what happens =D.

---

### Post by trubblemaker on 2006-11-08
cbruno is that a typo or is there a new driver out bcmwl6 ?

---

### Post by morfar on 2006-11-09
You dont need to throw it out the window =)

This is how you do it!
If you have ndiswrapper installed you have to remove it!
After that is done continue with the following:

You enable the sources in the /etc/apt/source.list
sudo gedit /etc/apt/source.list

delete the # from all the sentences that start with deb
not the cdrom sources.

The update your list with
 sudo apt-get update

Then install the bcm43xx-fwcutter 

 sudo apt-get install bcm43xx-fwcutter

then download wl_apsta.o by typing :

wget [http://drinus.net/airport/wl_apsta.o](http://drinus.net/airport/wl_apsta.o)

Now you have all the things you need to get it to work.

Now install the firmware for your card with this command

sudo bcm43xx-fwcutter -w /lib/firmware wl_apsta.o

I hope this will help you!

---

### Post by trubblemaker on 2006-11-09
there is actually a deb that does it all for you and if you look in my signature you can find a howto that describes using the native driver.   In my experience, It's not all that yet.  and it can't reliably run at more than 22Mb/sec.  With ndiswrapper you get 54Mb/s normally.  So if the lower speed isn't an issue, the native driver does do some things better.  Just thought I'd fill you in so you had all the facts.

---

