---
title: "Can't Get Projector to Work With Laptop"
date: 2005-09-03
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by gnuosphere on 2005-09-03
Hello, any help with this would be very much appreciated...

I have a BENQ PB 6200 XGA projector and I am trying to get it to project my LCD laptop which is running Ubuntu 5.04.

When the machine boots up, the display works fine. I get the projection of the various start-up sequences that run in text-mode. This is before the graphical mode kicks in. So, I know the projector is working fine. I'm connected through a Analog RGB cable. The cable is fine and works on other desktop machines.

However, when I get to the GDM, the display (hmm, this is hard to describe) has chunky block-like graphics that are of no use. So, SOMETHING is coming through but it is not the proper display. I believe the problem may be that the resolution of GDM is too high. My projector supports 1024X768 and the GDM is DEFINITELY higher than that (but I'm not sure EXACTLY what it is). However, when I log-in and get to Gnome, the resolution settings are appropriate but the problem is not fixed. Still chunky blocks of graphics which shift and slightly change as I operate the machine - but they are still not useful at all.

I'm thinking that - perhaps - the GDM messes things up and then switching the resolution later in Gnome does not fix the problem. I was thinking that if I switched the resolution of the GDM down to 1024X768 that might solve the problem. However, I have no idea how to do this - or how to disable GDM altogether.

I thought the problem may be in my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. I deleted all the higher resolutions in that file but that did not fix the problem. Here is the current status of that file (if this has anything to do with the problem)...

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce Go 6600]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-90
	VertRefresh	50-70
EndSection


Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce Go 6600]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Any ideas that may help?

Thanks so much.

Peter Rock

---

### Post by mlord on 2005-09-03
You will probably have to configure the NV X-Server for dual-displays, or "cloned" mode if it supports that.  The Xinerama X module is often involved when doing this.  Not much help, I know, but just some ideas of where/what to look for.

I'm lucky to have the ATI X300 video in my Dell, and the stock x.org Radeon driver supports "cloned" mode without need of any add-on modules, so my Dell works fine (now) with projectors.  Hopefully the NVidia driver has something similar..

The stock X.org "nv" driver might work for you with this option:

Option   "CrtcNumber" "1"

That forces external display mode, in place of using the LCD.  Ideally you'd want both, but there's no mention of a cloned mode in the stock x.org nv driver.

---

### Post by s_p_a_r_k_y on 2005-09-04
you'll probably want to setup 2 screens one for the laptop and one for the projector in the xorg config file. Its the same idea as having a TV hooked up, it needs its own configuration as it usually doesn't support the same resolution/frequency as your monitor

---

### Post by gnuosphere on 2005-09-04
[QUOTE=s_p_a_r_k_y]you'll probably want to setup 2 screens one for the laptop and one for the projector in the xorg config file. Its the same idea as having a TV hooked up, it needs its own configuration as it usually doesn't support the same resolution/frequency as your monitor[/QUOTE]

Hi Sparky.

In my xorg.conf file there is the section -

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce Go 6600]"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1024x768"
EndSubSection

Do you mean to create a second section similar to this? If so, what would it look like? The exact same except instead of - Device "NVIDIA......." I would have - Device "BENQ Projector"? What about the "Montior" part? "Identifier"?

Or am I misunderstanding what you are suggesting I do?

Sorry...I'm a GNU/Linux newbie.   :|

---

### Post by bumparocky on 2005-10-12
good description of the problem..I am getting exactly the same behavior here with Kubuntu 5.10 (livecd) on a Toshiba Tecra-M2 @1024 connected to a Toshiba projector which supports same ( I use the same setup every day in the classroom with WinXP Pro but need a Linux for many lessons due to restrictions inherent in the local Micro$oft setup...)...on this laptop Fn+F5 toogles between outputs....

One strange behavior I did note under windows is that a lot of the video output choices disappear from the menu if logged in as normal user rather than administrator...I am used to this function being independent of OS.:confused:

---

