---
title: "External video switch, ThinkPad R52"
date: 2007-10-31
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by schuelaw on 2007-10-31
After upgrading from 7.04 to 7.10 my IBM ThinkPad R52 (intel video, i915) will no longer switch to the external video port.  I use this laptop in the classroom to drive a computer projector.  

There's a key combination Fn-F7 that switches to the external video port attached to the projector.  In 7.04 it worked fine.  After the upgrade (actually a clean installation) this switch no longer works.  Any help here?

Thanks,

Albert

---

### Post by cadamr on 2007-10-31
can you post your xorg.conf file? It's located in /etc/X11.

---

### Post by cadamr on 2007-10-31
also post the results from the command "xrandr" and the screen resolutions of both the monitor and projector.

---

### Post by schuelaw on 2007-11-01
Here's the xrandr output.

root@mathlap1:/home/schuelaw# xrandr
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1024 x 768, maximum 1024 x 1024
VGA disconnected (normal left inverted right)
LVDS connected 1024x768+0+0 (normal left inverted right) 0mm x 0mm
   1024x768       57.6*+   85.0     75.0     70.1     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        85.1     72.2     75.0     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        85.0     72.8     75.0     59.9  
   720x400        85.0  
   640x400        85.1  
   640x350        85.1  
TV disconnected (normal left inverted right)


Here's the xorg.conf:

root@mathlap1:/home/schuelaw# cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
        Driver          "intel"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-70
        VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by schuelaw on 2007-11-01
More.

Does anyone know how to modify /etc/modprobe.d/thinkpad_acpi.modprobe?

I bet if I can write a mask that let's Fn+F7 pass through, that my video toggle functionality will return.  Is there a tutorial or explanation of the format of the mask?

A

---

### Post by pdonner on 2007-11-01
Albert,

I am running 7.04 and I cannot use Fn-F7 to get my video to switch over (using an IBM T42p).  Was there anything you had to do to get it working on 7.04 or did it work right out of the box?

Thanks,

-Donner

---

### Post by schuelaw on 2007-11-01
That's what's odd about this.  It worked without me ever having to do anything.  This is a case of I never missed it until it was gone.

I'm tempted to reinstall 7.04 just to see what makes it work there.  If I don't get this resolved by the weekend, I may do that.

---

### Post by schuelaw on 2007-11-03
Well, I just finished installing 7.04 and indeed the video switching works just fine there.

In 7.10, I suspect it's a problem with the hotkey keymask in /etc/modprobe.d/thinkpad_acpi.modprobe
the contents of which are, by default:

options thinkpad_acpi hotkey=enable,0xffff8f experimental=1

As near as I can tell, this should set the mask to 0xffff8f in /proc/acpi/ibm/hotkey to that value, but instead it has the following contents:

status:         enabled
mask:           0xffffff
commands:       enable, disable, reset, <mask>

as you can see the mask is trivial, capturing all key strokes.  

In 7.04, Fn+F7 doesn't generate an acpi event.  I'm guessing it goes straight to the hardware and does the right thing.

To fix this, I somehow have to get the mask in /proc/acpi/ibm/hotkey to be what it was in 7.04, but all of my attempts to change it have been ignored.

Any help?

---

### Post by schuelaw on 2007-11-08
Now back in Gutsy, 7.10, I tried changing the mask in /proc/acpi/ibm/hotkey to match what was in Feisty, 7.04.

echo "0xffff8f" > hotkey # Fn+F7 no longer appears in /var/log/acpi, video switch still doesn't work

echo "0xffff9f" > hotkey # Fn+F7 no longer appears in /var/log/acpi, video switch still doesn't work

echo "reset" > hotkey # Fn+F7 no longer appears in /var/log/acpi, video switch still doesn't work

Still no video switch, any help?

A

---

### Post by schuelaw on 2007-11-09
In gutsy, I found the package called i810switch which gives you a command called "i810switch".

sudo i810switch crt on  #turns the external video on

sudo i810switch crt on  #turns the external video off

This works, so I'm done with this thread.  This still doesn't really explain why this worked so seemlessly in feisty and not at all in gutsy, but since nobody really cares, I'm moving on too.

---

### Post by sav2005 on 2007-12-03
Thanks - I'm a teacher with the same problem - I've just updated to Gutsy and lost wireless, CUPS server and FN+F7!!!!

---

