---
title: "Nvidia drivers on Vaio VGN-FZ11M"
date: 2007-10-03
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by frunns on 2007-10-03
I'm running Gutsy on my vaio, got the Nvidia drivers to work (the latest on nvidia.com), but the problem is that whenever I reboot I get to that low-res failsafe screen that wants me to change resolution, graphics card and all that. So then I reinstall the drivers and everything works again. Until I reboot that is.

Any directions on how to fix it or at least to find out what's wrong?

---

### Post by frunns on 2007-10-03
Bump. 

Been trying to fix this all day, but it just won't work... Something happens during reboot, and I don't know what. Or something doesn't happen during boot. I just don't know and some help would be awesome. :)

---

### Post by hzsolti on 2007-10-04
Hello,
I have the same type Sony Vaio FZ11M with Gusty... :)
The latest NVIDIA drivers are ok... so just use it....
But you will need one configuration file...

open the terminal:

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf


and replace the whole the text in it with this:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Layout0"
  screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Keyboard0"	"CoreKeyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Mouse0"	"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	Rgbpath		"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"dbe"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"type1"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	# generated from default
	Identifier	"Mouse0"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"no"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	# generated from default
	Identifier	"Keyboard0"
	Driver		"kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor0"
	Vendorname	"Unknown"
	Modelname	"Unknown"
	Horizsync	30.0	-	110.0
	Vertrefresh	50.0	-	150.0
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA Corporation"
	Boardname	"GeForce 8400M GT"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Device		"Device0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option		"TwinView"	"0"
	Option		"metamodes"	"1280x800 + 0 + 0"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection


save and reboot your system...
if you need anythings else just write... :)

---

### Post by frunns on 2007-10-04
oh, nice... gonna try this out right now...

---

### Post by frunns on 2007-10-04
btw, how's your networking? mine's kinda slow...

---

### Post by frunns on 2007-10-04
no... the xorg.conf didn't work for me... still have to run the installer every time I boot... =S

---

### Post by TDub on 2007-10-04
> **frunns said:**
> I'm running Gutsy on my vaio, got the Nvidia drivers to work (the latest on nvidia.com), but the problem is that whenever I reboot I get to that low-res failsafe screen that wants me to change resolution, graphics card and all that. So then I reinstall the drivers and everything works again. Until I reboot that is.

Any directions on how to fix it or at least to find out what's wrong?

What's prossibly the issue is that the NV default nvidia driver hasn't been listed as disabled restricted module so it attempts to load that instead on each boot

After re-installing the NVIDIA drivers (again) open /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common in your favourite text editor
```

sudo gedit /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common

```

and within that file change this line:
```

DISABLED_MODULES=""

```

to:
```

DISABLED_MODULES="nv"

```

Hope this helps

TDub

---

### Post by frunns on 2007-10-04
TDub... I love you. I had a feeling it was something like this, but I had no idea on how to do this. Thanks.

---

### Post by TDub on 2007-10-04
Pleased i could help

and, erm, i love you too ;)

---

### Post by drimsun on 2007-10-04
Thanks a lot TDub, had the same issue. Now everything runs perfectly!

---

### Post by David A Knight on 2007-10-04
or you could just apt-get install nvidia-glx-new  which is the latest version of the drivers and not have to fiddle about at all + you get patches to the kernel module for as and when required to fix problems.

---

