---
title: "Pioneer DVD writer not recognized at all"
date: 2005-05-15
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-05-15
I've installed Ubuntu and am very happy with it. The only thing is, that it doesn't recognize my DVD-burner  :???:  The DVD drive doesn't come up on the device manager either. It works perfectly fine with Windows, but not with Linux. I have no clue what the problem could be, because my other drive works fine.
IDE0 -> 2x HD
IDE1 -> 2x CD/DVD drives. The slave one (Samsung) works, the master (Pioneer) doesn't work.

---

### Post by caff on 2005-05-15
[QUOTE=SWAT]I've installed Ubuntu and am very happy with it. The only thing is, that it doesn't recognize my DVD-burner  :???:  The DVD drive doesn't come up on the device manager either. It works perfectly fine with Windows, but not with Linux. I have no clue what the problem could be, because my other drive works fine.
IDE0 -> 2x HD
IDE1 -> 2x CD/DVD drives. The slave one (Samsung) works, the master (Pioneer) doesn't work.[/QUOTE]
 I have the same problem, in the thread [QSI]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=34515") ugh cant find out much about it, lots of stuff on google about fiddling with settings in grub and lilo but not much for someone who knows SFA about debian... and so far no helpfull replies

---

### Post by Bob D. on 2005-05-15
I may be reaching here, but check the Pioneer to see if its terminated as Master, not Cable Select or Slave. I seem to recall somewhere that there could be issues if terminated as Cable Select.

I have a Pioneer DVR-109 as Master on the Master cable connector and the Ubuntu Device Manager sees it fine.

Hope this helps....as I said, I'm reaching so this might not work.

Good luck!

Bob

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-05-15
I just powered down my computer and check the setting. The settings are set with jumper in the correct way (NOT using cable select). I don't know what to do anymore... Maybe I'll test this PC with Knoppix tomorrow and check if Knoppix recognizes it all.  :roll: 
Another thought: Could it have something to do with SCSI? I don't have a SCSI drive, but I very vaguely remember reading something about that...

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-05-15
I couldn't go to sleep so I just went on doing something crazy. I booted from my Pioneer DVD drive into Ubuntu 5.04 LIVE CD. And that worked! It even recognized both of my DVD drives.... Maybe this information helps?

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-05-18
My DVD drive still isn't recognized, it still doesn't work  ](*,) 
Does anyone know anything I could try or does anyone have the solution? I'm desperate here!

---

### Post by jeremy on 2005-05-19
Post the contents of your /etc/fstab - the problem may be there.

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-05-19
```
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
/dev/hda2       /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/hda5       none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 ro,user,noauto  0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 ro,user,noauto  0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
```

* By the way, this fstab was autogenerated

---

### Post by jyp on 2005-05-30
[QUOTE=SWAT]I've installed Ubuntu and am very happy with it. The only thing is, that it doesn't recognize my DVD-burner  :???:  The DVD drive doesn't come up on the device manager either. It works perfectly fine with Windows, but not with Linux. I have no clue what the problem could be, because my other drive works fine.
IDE0 -> 2x HD
IDE1 -> 2x CD/DVD drives. The slave one (Samsung) works, the master (Pioneer) doesn't work.[/QUOTE]
 Same problem with Pioneer DVR-108 ; not recognized by Ubuntu (amd64) but perfectly recognized by Knoppix (3.8.2) as /dev/hdb in accordance with the /etc/fstab entry. 

Any suggestion?

---

### Post by garnertr on 2005-05-30
[QUOTE=SWAT]I couldn't go to sleep so I just went on doing something crazy. I booted from my Pioneer DVD drive into Ubuntu 5.04 LIVE CD. And that worked! It even recognized both of my DVD drives.... Maybe this information helps?[/QUOTE]

I've been having the same problems (been posting over on the Beginner board) and this morning, I wiped everything out, did an install of the i386 flavor via my external LG drive and, did an update (around 14-22 updates, cannot remember).

Powered down, took a nap, unhooked the external; turned on laptop and BLAM everything was there... 

Very odd... I don't know if a security patch fixed something, but I can play music cd's.

I haven't attempted to upgrade my video player yet, TOTEM doesn't play, but I'm closer.. and happier...

---

### Post by jyp on 2005-05-30
re : detection of Pioneer DVR-108
problem solved.

I do not know if all of these steps were necessary but finally the dvr is detected.

First, I had the bios detect again both the dvr-108 and the cdrom.

Second, I booted with the install cd (ubuntu amd64) in the dvr drawer instead of the cdrom drawer and choose the rescue mode.

Went through the rescue procudure which attempt to detect the hardware again and reboot.

That is it. Now, after rebooting, the Pioneer DVR-108 was properly detected and identified as specified in /etc/fstab. (/dev/hda on /media/cdrom1)

If there was a better way, please let me know.  :-)

---

### Post by jyp on 2005-05-31
dvr not detected (pioneer dvr-108) 	( post #3)

Well unfortunately the cure (see preceding post) was not permanent.

After rebooting, the drive could not be detected. The output of dmesg shows no trace of the device (/etc/hda).

If anybody can help, it woulld be greatly appreciated.

Ubuntu on amd64.

Thank you.

---

### Post by Madpilot on 2005-05-31
Well, I just ordered a Pioneer DVR-109 onine a few hours ago - *before* I found this thread. It might be heading back to the store just as quickly...

I'll watch your thread closely - and let you know how my experience when my Pioneer DVR arrives later this week!

---

### Post by jyp on 2005-06-07
[QUOTE=Madpilot]
I'll watch your thread closely - and let you know how my experience when my Pioneer DVR arrives later this week![/QUOTE]

Finally, after many many tries, there was no way to have the system recognized both the cdrom and the dvr on a permanent basis. 

The only way out for me was the hardware way; since my motherboard (MSI K8N Neo2) has 2 ide slots, I connect both drives as masters each using its own slot. Now both drives are properly detected and usable.

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-06-08
I also have an MSI Neo2 Platinum and the 'hardware' way isn't usable for me, because of my internal hardware setup/wiring. I still find it strange that the (master IDE) CD/DVD (Pioneer) isn't recognized and the (secondary IDE) CD/DVD (Samsung) is recognized. As said before, with the Ubuntu live CD they both work fine. 
Can anyone help or give me/us a permanent (software) solution? I still can't use my DVD-writer, although I REALLY need it  :?

---

### Post by thedaemon on 2005-06-08
[QUOTE=SWAT]I also have an MSI Neo2 Platinum and the 'hardware' way isn't usable for me, because of my internal hardware setup/wiring. I still find it strange that the (master IDE) CD/DVD (Pioneer) isn't recognized and the (secondary IDE) CD/DVD (Samsung) is recognized. As said before, with the Ubuntu live CD they both work fine. 
Can anyone help or give me/us a permanent (software) solution? I still can't use my DVD-writer, although I REALLY need it  :?[/QUOTE]
 I have a TDK dvd-rw, and it worked with live cd too, and doesn't read with my normal install. I find it really annoying. If I figure it out, I will post it on here. If you figure it out, please post.

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-06-13
OK. I think a got a quick and dirty fix for us 'poor' users. I haven't tested it with DVD/CD writing though.
Although cdrom0 (my Pioneer) is (auto)mounted, it doesn't auto-mount. Well no matter.

At boot time, use the option "ide=nodma"
Then when your system is booted, manually mount your drive (I used) "sudo mount /dev/hdc /media/cdrom0"

Now you should be able to access the CD/DVD :-)
Writing should also be possible 8-)

Edit:
Does anyone know how to ENABLE DMA for my HD's after turning DMA off at boot? (fstab? Bash script?)

Edit:
Solved: Just have to edit /etc/hdparm.conf

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-06-14
OK, now I'm really going bonkers here.
The 'solution' above seemed to work, but 
* Only if you set the 'ide=nodma' on boot. So it musn't be hardcoded into /boot/grub/menu.lst
* Only if /etc/hdparm.conf is empty

And now suddenly the device doesn't exist anymore (just like that). I can't make any sense out of this anymore. Is this a kernel or an Ubuntu problem and how can/will it be fixed? (by the way, if I can help, I am willing to)

---

### Post by yogeshginde on 2005-06-18
Hi,

I have *exactly* the same problems - LG DVD_ROM on ide1 not recognised but the Sony CD-Writer on ide2 gets recognised.

And SWAT's solution works for me too (I use "ide1=nodma").  And just like SWAT, this works only if I edit grub parameters on boot-up and not if I stick them in the menu.lst!

Another thing - even when this solution works, I get an error during boot-up saying "FATAL: module ide_mod not found" (or something close to that).

What exactly is happening here!? [I mean, is this a NFORCE3 or AMD64 or Ubuntu or ... problem?]

Regards,
Yogesh

---

### Post by jrronimo on 2005-07-30
I'm trying to install 5.04 on my main machine. It has a Pioneer DVR-108 in it.

Both the install CD and the LiveCD start to install, but when they get to the 'detect and mount CD-ROM' step, both come up with:

"No common CD-ROM drive was detected.

You may need to load additional CD-ROM drivers from a driver floppy.
If you have such a floppy available now, put it in the drive, and continue. Otherwise, you will be given the option to manually select CD-ROM modules.

Load CD-ROM drivers from a driver floppy?

yes/no"

I've tried a few of the modules on the list, but to no avail.

Has anyone found a solution for this? Starting the install process with "linux ide=nodma" doesn't do anything.

Thanks in advance...

---

### Post by Ubuntun00blet on 2005-08-24
BUMP! I have exactly the same problem! As do a 3 of my other friends who I all reccomended the Pioneer DVR-109 too, along with Ubuntu!!! Please help! I have exact problem as poster above...!

---

### Post by jrronimo on 2005-08-24
I've partially tracked down my problem:

I have an ICH6-R chipset running in 'RAID' mode. Apparently Linux can't do some semi-hardware RAIDs, like this Intel one.

However, the ICH6-R has a mode called 'ACHI' which Linux /can/ handle. Next format I am /totally/ switching it up, heh.

Does anyone know the difference between 'RAID' and 'ACHI' modes in the BIOS? I'm assuming they're both similar ways to do the same thing, but I don't want to lose performance if one is more hardware and the other is more software.

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-08-25
[QUOTE=jrronimo]I've partially tracked down my problem:

I have an ICH6-R chipset running in 'RAID' mode. Apparently Linux can't do some semi-hardware RAIDs, like this Intel one.

However, the ICH6-R has a mode called 'ACHI' which Linux /can/ handle. Next format I am /totally/ switching it up, heh.

Does anyone know the difference between 'RAID' and 'ACHI' modes in the BIOS? I'm assuming they're both similar ways to do the same thing, but I don't want to lose performance if one is more hardware and the other is more software.[/QUOTE]
Just for the record, I have a MSI Neo2 Platinum (AMD64) motherboard, but I can't imagine that that could be the problem. The ICH6-R is a motherboard chipset. I think it maybe could be the kernel, but actually I still have NO CLUE!  ](*,)

---

### Post by Ubuntun00blet on 2005-08-26
Another B U M P!

Anyone have a solution for installing Ubuntu with a Pioneer DVR-109?

---

### Post by kassetra on 2005-09-01
[QUOTE=Ubuntun00blet]Another B U M P!

Anyone have a solution for installing Ubuntu with a Pioneer DVR-109?[/QUOTE]

Well, Ubuntu installed with my Pioneer DVR-109 - so let me give you some physical specs that might help you out:

1. This drive needs a very stable, high-end power supply to work correctly - I use a 600W.
2. You need an 80-pin IDE cable for this drive, and not the 40-pin that comes standard.
3. If you can, keep this drive master of it's own IDE chain... i.e. Secondary Master, and make sure the jumpers on the drive match your configuration.

This drive is *very* sensitive to power fluctuations and cable limitations.  Also, it can be fussy when it's not placed in a master position of an ide chain, with nothing else chained to it.  When this drive is given those three things, it is very powerful and very stable - perhaps one of the best drives on the market today.

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-09-11
[QUOTE=kassetra]Well, Ubuntu installed with my Pioneer DVR-109 - so let me give you some physical specs that might help you out:

1. This drive needs a very stable, high-end power supply to work correctly - I use a 600W.
2. You need an 80-pin IDE cable for this drive, and not the 40-pin that comes standard.
3. If you can, keep this drive master of it's own IDE chain... i.e. Secondary Master, and make sure the jumpers on the drive match your configuration.

This drive is *very* sensitive to power fluctuations and cable limitations.  Also, it can be fussy when it's not placed in a master position of an ide chain, with nothing else chained to it.  When this drive is given those three things, it is very powerful and very stable - perhaps one of the best drives on the market today.[/QUOTE]

Sorry, but that's a bit wrong information, at least in my situation. ( I have a DVR-108, which sits on a IDE master, with a slave drive installed and a 400W power supply )
1. If the drive works in Windows, it should work in Linux (same power-requirements)
2. So you mean a normal IDE cable. (If it works in Windows, it should work in Linux)
3. So you mean just be sure the master/slave settings are correct. And the drive doesn't "need" a own IDE channel (If it works in Windows, it should work in Linux)

---

### Post by kassetra on 2005-09-13
[QUOTE=SWAT]Sorry, but that's a bit wrong information, at least in my situation. ( I have a DVR-108, which sits on a IDE master, with a slave drive installed and a 400W power supply )
1. If the drive works in Windows, it should work in Linux (same power-requirements)
2. So you mean a normal IDE cable. (If it works in Windows, it should work in Linux)
3. So you mean just be sure the master/slave settings are correct. And the drive doesn't "need" a own IDE channel (If it works in Windows, it should work in Linux)[/QUOTE]

... not exactly... the dvr-108 is a lot less finicky than the 109 - but almost none of the pioneer drives follow the "if it works in Windows it should work in Linux" ... unfortunately... 
some work, some don't - and the pioneer "drivers" for linux have been notorious for ineffeciencies 
(like power consumption, requiring a specific spot in the IDE chain, and demanding the 80 pin cable - many of these drives come with a 40 pin cable that is very difficult to determine the difference because they are cheaply made versions of the 80 pin cable that work "ok" with the drives.) 
- but that is what happens when the drive manufacturer only releases binary drivers and no specs for developers - which is the heart of why even though it "works in Windows" ... it may not work in Linux with the same setup.

I just happen to know that the 109 is very finicky in Linux (many of my friends that have a 109 have had the same problems - requiring the higher watt power supply, the separate IDE chain, and a new cable) - so it's possible (although I haven't heard of any lately) that the 108 that you have could also be this finicky.

If you really think it's the kernel though - I suggest you grab the header files for an ubuntu kernel and then build your own (based on the ubuntu setup) ... I had to do that to get the full use of all of my memory.

---

### Post by twowheeler on 2005-09-13
FWIW, my Pioneer DVR-107D never had a problem in ubuntu.  It was autodetected and works fine.  So it must just be the more recent models.

---

### Post by daller on 2005-09-13
[QUOTE=Bob D.]I may be reaching here, but check the Pioneer to see if its terminated as Master, not Cable Select or Slave. I seem to recall somewhere that there could be issues if terminated as Cable Select.

I have a Pioneer DVR-109 as Master on the Master cable connector and the Ubuntu Device Manager sees it fine.

Hope this helps....as I said, I'm reaching so this might not work.

Good luck!

Bob[/QUOTE]

Hi Bob,

I also have a DVR-109, and so far i've wasted more than 30 discs to get it working...

Trying to burn at 16x, it seems like everything is just fine, but after a while the process stalls for a few seconds, causing the drive to spindown - after it spinup and finishes the process, its says that everything went fine - but accessing the data on the disc is possible... (burning at lower speeds doesn't work eighter)

Have you experienced any of the above? (Figured it must be a linux thing - because it works if I boot into windows XP... This also confirms that its not a disc-error)

Specs:

300W PSU (Isn't this enough?)
80-pin cable
The drive is Master on its very own IDE chain!

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-09-19
OK. There is hope! I've seen the light!
Today I downloaded, burnt and ran the Ubuntu Breezy preview live CD. The dmesg log told me that my DVD writer was recognized correctly. Now I'm waiting for the final release and hoping it will still recognize my Pioneer drive correctly.

---

### Post by daller on 2005-10-03
...Well, i've been running Breezy for quite a while now...

Breezy recognized the drive - but the burnings turn out corrupted...

...Please post if you get it to work (Not that i'm that interested - Just sold mine, and bought a "LiteOn SOHW-1673S" - which is fully supported)

Cheers

---

### Post by SWAT on 2005-10-16
Well, I'm running Breezy since this weekend (the official release was just before my weekend started) and my DVD-drive is recognized :D 
The DVD-reading and DVD-burning works just fine. I even verified the written data and tested the burned DVD on my other drive and the one of a friend of mine. My DVD's are A-OK. 
"The juice was worth the squeeze"

---

