---
title: "Feisty, fglrx, radeon 9700 pro, anyone have it working?"
date: 2007-05-07
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-05-07
I am pretty fed up with this and need some help.  I am trying to get some simple 3d acceleration with my Ati Radeon 9700 Pro.  I am going to post everything I have done so far.  First my system specs

Abit IC7 MB w/ Intel 875 chipset
P4 2,4 ghz w/ hyper threading
512 MB ram
Radeon 9700 Pro
19" Flat Panel Monitor

Here is what I have tried.  I tried this guide [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide), I tried methods 1 and 2.  I have added the option UseInternalAGPGART "no" to my xorg.conf, still no change.

This part of the Xorg.0.log, seems to summarize my problem.

> (II) fglrx(0): [pci] find AGP GART
(EE) fglrx(0): [agp] unable to acquire AGP, error "xf86_ENODEV"
(EE) fglrx(0): cannot init AGP
(II) fglrx(0): [drm] removed 1 reserved context for kernel
(II) fglrx(0): [drm] unmapping 8192 bytes of SAREA 0x2000 at 0xb73c1000
(WW) fglrx(0): ***********************************************
(WW) fglrx(0): * DRI initialization failed!                  *
(WW) fglrx(0): * (maybe driver kernel module missing or bad) *
(WW) fglrx(0): * 2D acceleraton available (MMIO)             *
(WW) fglrx(0): * no 3D acceleration available                *
(WW) fglrx(0): ********************************************* *

Here is my xorg.conf.

> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "ENVISION EN9410E"
	HorizSync    30.0 - 65.0
	VertRefresh  50.0 - 75.0
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI RADEON 9700 PRO"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "UseFBDev" "true"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI RADEON 9700 PRO"
	Monitor    "ENVISION EN9410E"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x768" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     4
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x768" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     8
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x768" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     15
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x768" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x768" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x768" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "0"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "AIGLX" "off"
EndSection


If I do an lsmod the fglrx, agpgart, and intel_agp modules are loaded.  No matter what I do this is what I get when I do fglrxinfo

> display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.4 (1.5 Mesa 6.5.2)

Any ideas?  Does anyone have this setup running correctly on Feisty?  I am not trying to do anything special like run Beryl, I just want some simple 3d acceleration and that would make me happy.  Thanks in advance for your help!!

---

### Post by Ramaddan on 2007-05-08
HI,

Just to point out that I have the same problem, and I have tried everything, and I still can't get it working.

Does anyone out there know if there is even a resolution out there?

I'm using an ATI 9600 XT, 128MB Ram.

When looking over the Xorg.0.log, the problem seems to be as pointed out in the previous post:

> (II) fglrx(0): [pci] find AGP GART
(EE) fglrx(0): [agp] unable to acquire AGP, error "xf86_ENODEV"
(EE) fglrx(0): cannot init AGP

Is this a kernel problem?

Thanks.

---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-05-08
Just giving this thread a love tap.  Any one have any ideas?? :confused:

---

### Post by Jim D v2.0 on 2007-05-08
I am having the same problem, and I've given up because of what I read in this [link]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/78684").

---

### Post by Ramaddan on 2007-05-09
> **Jim D v2.0 said:**
> I am having the same problem, and I've given up because of what I read in this [link]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/78684").

Thank you Thank you Thank you

I read the link you gave, and someone suggested to disable the following in "/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist"

So I did the following in a terminal:
> sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

And then I added these two lines at the top:
> blacklist i82875p_edac
blacklist edac_mc

Then I restarted (have to restart, as killing off the gdm session and removing fglrx mod is not enough).

I also tried it with just:
> blacklist i82875p_edac

And it works also, and does not seem to need the other line.
So my ATI is now working in all its beauty.

Just for reference and accuracy, I am using an Asus P4C800 Deluxe motherboard,
which uses the Intel 875P Chipset, which is what the blacklist seems to be referring to,
and it seems this is a problem with the kernel 2.6.20+ and the Intel 875 Chipset.

However, I would like to know more about the repercussions (if any) of the above steps.
Do I lose anything in the process? Does anyone know?

Thanks.

---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-05-10
Ramaddan, Thank you!!  That worked like a charm.  If I do fglrxinfo Ati now shows up as the driver being used and my agp errors in Xorg.0.log and the kernel log have disappeared.  Direct Rendering is working now and I have 3d acceleration.  Yay!!!!

Couple questions though.  What kind of frame rate do you get with glxgears.  I know that is not really an indicator of anything, I am just curious.  Before when fglrx wasn't working the gear movement was very choppy and my fps were showing up as 300.  Now with fglrx working the gears move very smoothly, but the fps is only 150??  Kind of doesn't make sense.  Like I said it doesn't matter, just curious.

Question 2 is does fglrxgears work on your system?  My terminal just says command not found.  I keep reading about everyone using this command to gauge their system performance, but it doesn't work on mine.

To answer your question about what those two modules do, this is what I gathered from a google search.  They appear to have something to do with the memory controller.  I know Intel had some sort of high performance memory interface on 875 chipset.  My guess is that we just lose that slight performance edge??  If there is any to begin with.  It certainly doesn't appear to affect functionality though because I am not getting any unusual error messages and everything has worked flawlessly so far.  I have watched videos and played games so far with not problems other than some videos skipping a little bit, but I have heard that is a common problem with the fglrx driver.  Maybe some tweaking will fix it.

Anyway thanks a lot for the suggestion.  I have been wanting to play Scorched3d and now I can \\:D/

For anyone having a similar problem you should just be able to install the driver using either Method 1 or 2 mentioned in the link that is in my first post and then add the two lines to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist provided by Ramaddan.

---

### Post by Jim D v2.0 on 2007-05-10
Thank you Ramaddan,

It worked for me, too.

I would like to point out that it is necessary (at least for me) to add those lines at the beginnig of the blacklist and then uninstall the ati drivers and then re-install them. (I used envy).

Everything seem to working like a charm now.

---

### Post by Jim D v2.0 on 2007-05-10
> **skywarp04 said:**
> 

Question 2 is does fglrxgears work on your system?  My terminal just says command not found.  I keep reading about everyone using this command to gauge their system performance, but it doesn't work on mine.


For the ATI drivers I believe the command you want is fgl_glxgears.

---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-05-10
Yep, that worked.  Console recognizes fgl_glxgears.  Thank you again Ramaddan.

---

### Post by DirtDart on 2007-11-18
Had the same problem in Gutsy with the restricted drivers.

Added the 2 entries into the blacklist file, and the problem went away.

Thanks for the info.

---

### Post by Raldios on 2007-12-01
> **Ramaddan said:**
> Just for reference and accuracy, I am using an Asus P4C800 Deluxe motherboard,  hich uses the Intel 875P Chipset, which is what the blacklist seems to be referring to,  and it seems this is a problem with the kernel 2.6.20+ and the Intel 875 Chipset.
Is what you put in for the blacklist specific to your motherboard?  Because it does nothing for me.  I still get asked to configure my graphics card.

---

### Post by Ramaddan on 2007-12-02
Hi Raldios,

It's been a while, and I changed motherboards since then.

If I remember right, the problem was not wrong with the motherboard itself, but the chipset used by the motherboard, which was Intel 875 chipset.

Which  motherboard are you using, and can you find out what chipset it uses?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Raldios on 2007-12-02
I'm using a 745 Ultra  (MS-6561) MSI motherboard, with an SiS 745 Chipset. ([Source]("http://www.msicomputer.com/product/detail_spec/745Ultra.htm"))

I'm gonna try to edit your code, but I probably won't get it to work.  Thanks for helping me.

---

### Post by Ramaddan on 2007-12-05
Yeah,

That problem that I replied to was specific to the Intel 875 chipset, as far as I know.

Your problem might be completely unrelated.

I wish I knew more about your problem, because I would rather not just tell you to try something while shooting in the dark.

Your problem could be driver related, or configuration related.

Maybe if you stated exactly what you are trying to do, and the steps you took.

---

