---
title: "Ubuntu boots, then display goes black"
date: 2006-03-18
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by 09dgc on 2006-03-18
Ok, so I got my Ubuntu install to work, thanks to tseliot's help.  Now, however,  when I choose Ubuntu from Grub Loader it boots up, then my screen goes black.     I've got an MSI 7145-RS480M motherboard, with integrated Radeon Xpress 200 graphics, and I'm not sure that ATI had any drivers that are going to make my display work.  Are there any possible solutions to this problem?  Thanks.

---

### Post by sgbeamer on 2006-03-18
Hit ctrl-alt-F2 and log into the terminal screen you get.

After loggin in, type  sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

This should pop up your X  configuration file  (mine below)

Find the "Device" section that describes your video card (mine looks like this):
[FONT="Courier New"][INDENT]Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000 AGP 8x]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection[/INDENT][/FONT]

Change the driver to "vesa"  that will almost always work.   Then you can experiment with others like "ati" or the proprietary one from the ATI website.

My xorg.conf file:

[FONT="Courier New"][INDENT]# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000 AGP 8x]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Sceptre X9G-"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000 AGP 8x]"
	Monitor		"Sceptre X9G-"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection[/INDENT][/FONT]

---

### Post by 09dgc on 2006-03-18
Thanks!

---

### Post by brucehohl on 2006-03-18
I just bought a computer with the Xpress 200 video.  I can confirm that the vesa driver does work.

I installed the Ubuntu 5.10 xorg-driver-fglrx driver but could not get it to work.  I suspect the Ubuntu 5.10 xorg-driver-fglrx driver is too old for the Xpress 200.

I was successful in using the current driver from the ATI web site.
Here's what I did:

1- Uninstall any existing xorg-driver-fglrx package.
-- Backup existing /etc/X11/xorg.conf

2- apt-get install some needed packages
-- (maybe not all of these are needed,
-- but it's only four packages)
-- gcc-3.4
-- module-assistant
-- build-essential
-- debhelper

3- down load ati-driver-installer-8.23.7-i386.run
-- this is from [www.ati.com](www.ati.com)

4- Use the installer to create deb packages:
-- $ sudo su root
-- # ./ati-driver-installer-8.23.7-i386.run
-- Y = Generate Distribution Specific Driver Package
-- Continue
-- Agree to license
-- I Agree
-- Y = Ubuntu/5.10
-- Continue
-- "Package Generation Completed"
-- Exit

5- Install generated needed packages:
-- (only 2 of 5 created packages are needed)
-- # apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx_8.23.7-1_i386.deb
-- # apt-get installfglrx-control_8.23.7-1_i386.deb

6- Run aticonfig --initial
-- This completes the installation

7- reboot

8- System > Preferences > Screen Resolution
-- to change screen resolution

-- Applications > ATI Control
-- control GUI for the ATI hardware.

I hope this helps those with the Xpress 200 on Ubuntu 5.10.
Bruce

---

### Post by 09dgc on 2006-03-19
Thanks so much, this solved my problem!

---

### Post by jonathanp on 2006-03-19
Hi, I've got a simillar problem.
I've tried using the via and vesa driver. X serverr works with vesa but the display is very bad (I can't even read anything so have to reboot to win xp to browse the web etc.)
I've tried reconfiguring xserver but am not sure what amount of ram to allocate and what other settings to use for my 21 inch Dell CRT.
Any help would be great.
I've also looked on the viaarena.com website for drivers but am not sure which one to use as there are many that support the 2.6x linux kernel.
I'm thinking that it's probably the settings rather than the driver.

Jonathan.

---

