---
title: "Headphones / Speakers Issue with Feisty"
date: 2007-07-07
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by pbwalker on 2007-07-07
I'll try to explain this as best as I can...I've gotten to the point in my Linux knowledge that I've become dangerous.  :)

I have an issue with my Toshiba a135-s4427 and it relates to the headphone sensor. When I plug in my headphones, the PC Speakers still continue to play. I found a bug related to this. It is located here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/109838](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/109838)

I attempted to update ALSA to 1.0.14 (I'm currently running 1.0.14 rc1).

This is where I get lost.

bwalker@bwalk-lappy:~$ uname -a
Linux bwalk-lappy 2.6.20-16-generic #2 SMP Thu Jun 7 20:19:32 UTC 2007 i686 GNU/Linux

So I'm running 2.6.20-16-generic. Great. But when I check out /usr/src/, I have several headers. Both 2.6.20-15 and 2.6.20-16. When I check my sound version, both -15 and -16 are showing:

root@bwalk-lappy:~# cat /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.20-15/include/sound/version.h
/* include/version.h.  Generated by alsa/ksync script.  */
#define CONFIG_SND_VERSION "1.0.14rc1"
#define CONFIG_SND_DATE " (Tue Jan 09 09:56:17 2007 UTC)"
root@bwalk-lappy:~# cat /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.20-16/include/sound/version.h
/* include/version.h.  Generated by alsa/ksync script.  */
#define CONFIG_SND_VERSION "1.0.14rc1"
#define CONFIG_SND_DATE " (Tue Jan 09 09:56:17 2007 UTC)"

So, I've hit a road block. I'm sure I don't need the -15 headers...how can I dump them? Also, I'm not sure why ALSA is not being updated...I got through the ./configure - make - make install...no errors.

Lastly, as it mentions in that bug report, I need to compile the patch_realtek.c with it...How do I do that?

---

### Post by fletch229 on 2007-07-14
try this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=473425&highlight=headphone+on+toshiba](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=473425&highlight=headphone+on+toshiba)

---

