---
title: "6.10 constant HDD activity in GUI"
date: 2007-03-13
forum: Hardware &amp; Laptops
---

### Post by vyrzeden on 2007-03-13
I found a few older posts talking about my problem, but nothing was really resolved in them that I could find..

Basically, I have a brand new system I put together and have 6.10 on it. I would prefer to use Xfce, but the same problem happens under GNOME also. Once a GUI is started after bootup, my hard drive will be accessed about every 3-5 seconds for a very short period of time (the HDD activity light will flash briefly).

While people seem to have narrowed it down to a HAL issue and have tried tricks like using laptop mode, I was wondering if there is a genuine cause for this and a real fix without just turning a service on or off. Any help or leads would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by MindFlayer on 2007-03-15
Same problem here. I'd really like to use my laptop with Ubuntu but the HD sound is driving me crazy! :(

---

### Post by padre999 on 2007-03-22
I kind of start smelling a conspiracy here. I used K/Ubuntu Dapper Drake for quite some time. What drove me nuts about it was exactly this constant hdd read/write accesses (on my laptop AND my desktop computer). See the bug report at [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/+bug/17878/](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/+bug/17878/). 

On top of that the energy saving bug as described in this bug report [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/48509](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/48509) was bugging me. It kept the screen from switching of.

These bugs made me give up on K/Ubuntu. After half a year of using another distro I thought I'd give Ubuntu another try. And? Still the same problems around!

As can be read at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2321063&postcount=45](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2321063&postcount=45) constant hdd activity is going to be featured in Feisty Fawn as well :confused: 

Now my freshly installed and up to date Edgy has the usual "every 5 second click from the hdd" and the screensaver doesn't work (just black screen) and energy saving doesn't work. I have the suspicion Cononical is being financed by some major electricity producer. Or why is it that after a year there are still these problems with hdd activity and energy saving even though they are reported frequently  in the forums and bug reports?

A shame. I really like K/Ubuntu otherwise.

A disappointed padre999

---

