---
title: "14.04.3 LTS hack"
date: 2015-11-02
forum: Security
---

### Post by mac4 on 2015-11-02
I have 3 Ubuntu desktop running 14.043 LTS. I am using one for the application "motion" (video security motion detection) and 2 others for downloading the video through VLC. All machines are encrypted(using Ubuntu encrytion) and use SSH which can only be accessed via my Yosemite Mac.

The first time I noticed the hack is when the video was cut with a previous day video to make it look like it was the same day. I then reinstalled the Ubuntu desktop on all workstations ubuntu-14.04.3-desktop-amd64.iso 
sha 256 756a42474bc437f614caa09dbbc0808038d1a586d172894c113bb1c22b75d580 

2 symptoms are occurring

1) One desktop when it goes into lock mode (requiring a password on the physical console) now shows several dots in the password field as if someone had entered long text. The text cannot be deleted whic back space or removed by hitting enter to get a password failed message. the only way to clear it is to reset the workstation. I can SSH (using public key, with no password) into the workstation but no access is displayed in the auth.log or syslog.

2) My second desktop which uses  wifi continues to crash. It will not run longer than a day without it locking up with no access to the system. The logs sys.log and auth.log do not show any access attempts but this only starting to occur about a month ago after restricting the WIFI to a specific BSSID.

Both these possible hacks occur when I not around the home or not logged into the system.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-11-03
Hello!

Are your machines *physically* secure?  No room mates, kids, spouses, cats able to get at them?

Do your logs show long unexplained gaps?

Is your wifi secure?  Does anyone else use it?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2015-11-03
Have a read: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicSecurity](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicSecurity)

---

### Post by mac4 on 2015-11-04
I am the only person that has access and the password to the workstations. However I am interested in listening to any explanation describing how somoene that may of gain access to the Ubuntu desktops could bypass SSH and console password access.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-11-04
Power off, power on, hold the shift key down immediately after POST, select "Advanced options" from the GRUB menu, drop to root, issue

```
mount -o remount,rw /
```

You are now root with awesome power.

None of that is secret.  We often tell people to do just that to fix borked systems.

Wreak havoc at will.  Make all sorts of humorous and odd things happen at the next startup.  Add cron jobs.  Modify SSH configs.  Change user passwords.  Takes a few moments and then you modify the logs to hide your tracks.

Physical access is the mother of all security threats.

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2015-11-06
Nobody else seems to be going to ask this, so I'll display my ignorance.  The OP said all machines were encrypted. Would full disk encryption mean that on restart only the /boot partition would be readable, or does power off leave the entire disk contents unencrypted on restart?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2015-11-06
> **maglin2 said:**
> Nobody else seems to be going to ask this, so I'll display my ignorance.  The OP said all machines were encrypted. Would full disk encryption mean that on restart only the /boot partition would be readable, or does power off leave the entire disk contents unencrypted on restart?

We can only guess at the type of encryption used. It seems like they chose "Encrypt my home directory" during the install, where that folder gets decrypted after login.

Only the OP can tell us for sure.

---

### Post by mac4 on 2015-11-09
Remounting the OS is not going to correct this security issue. You actual belive all three Ubuntu desktops need the OS remounted ?

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2015-11-10
> **mac4 said:**
> Remounting the OS is not going to correct this security issue. You actual belive all three Ubuntu desktops need the OS remounted ?Huh? No one suggested you remount the OS.

You said only the mac can connect to these machines. How did you enforce that? Are you on a LAN or are these machines on the Internet? Give us an idea of how the network is designed.

---

### Post by mac4 on 2015-11-12
All Ubuntu workstations are accessed by physical console. I can also access all Ubuntu desktop using SSH (no password) from my Yosemite Mac. All devices are located on my private IP network.

The only item I am unsure of is "enable the firewall (sudo ufw enable) without further tweaks;" Do detect the security breach I have one Ubuntu running nothing other than what is stock and VLC. Is the Firewall not enabled by default?

The hack continues. Both VLC applications were closed on the Ubuntu desktop that had motion running and the network video stream to the other UBuntu clients stopped. Th emotion application was still running and I was able to start the 2 video streams without performing any changes. The firewall is enabled on all Ubuntu desktop's

The security breach has occurred again. I believe this is being done by the Canadian police located in Canada, Ontario, Brampton. The main "motion" security Ubnutu desktop video was cut the 2 other Ubuntu desktops did not have the security video which is gathered through VLC over my Internal network. I added a windows PC which also stopped  gathering video over the network. The Video was cut so that the main "Motion" server was stopped and restarted.

The police are involved in this hack. next door in Canada, Ontario, somewhere is a home which is radiating SSID Bell052. The SSID modulation is raising and lowering  in power (my guess, an attempt to make it difficult to locate) Bell is Canada's telecommunication company.

The hack on the security video ubuntu desktop occurred again(Nov-26-2015). Once again disableing motion's video capturing while I am away from the house. the other 2 ubuntu desktops where no longer able to communicate with the "motion" server.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-11-27
I suggest that you contact your local authorities -- whatever authorities may be required.  We cannot help you with this.

Closed.

---

