---
title: "Infected Ubuntu System..."
date: 2010-07-12
forum: Security
---

### Post by Papa-san on 2010-07-12
I'm not sure exactly what happened, but something HAS changed.

I was looking at YouTube videos. I was viewing one that was showing some US government atrocities during the Katrina aftermath. There was a link to an "update', so I clicked...
My screen went black, and it showed this:
(I have to type it in, so it might not look exactly as it was.)
```
Starting anac(h)ronistic cron acron
Deferred execution scheduler adt.
periodic command scheduler crond
/dev/sda:
Set advanced power management level to 0xfe(254)
Set advanced power management level to 0xfe(254)
running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)
```

From that moment on, my system has been REALLY slow. Some of my applications don't even respond at all. 
Booting my system takes almost twice as long now.

Any ideas as to what might be happening? 
Suggestions as to what to do about it?
Let me know if you need more information. 
Thanks!

---

### Post by cdenley on 2010-07-12
> **Papa-san said:**
> 
There was a link to an "update', so I clicked...


You're going to have to expand a little on that.

---

### Post by Papa-san on 2010-07-12
Sorry...
It wasn't any kind of system update or program update.
It was one of the balloons that they have in the video that says the story has been updated.
But, it was a story that plenty of people would NOT be happy was out there...

---

### Post by spynappels on 2010-07-12
Were you asked for your sudo password at any stage?
Have you rebooted since this happened?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-07-12
Screen going black and showing text messages - looks like xserver crash.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2010-07-12
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Screen going black and showing text messages - looks like xserver crash.

Browsing on Youtube, I blame Flash. :P

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-07-12
> **FuturePilot said:**
> Browsing on Youtube, I blame Flash. :P

Indeed, flash is the most likely cause, especially when coupled with older versions of Firefox.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-12
On the off chance that something was changed, have you checked /etc/rc.local?

---

### Post by Papa-san on 2010-07-12
I wasn't asked for my password. (Wouldn't give it out anyways.)
I checked out /etc/rc.local Here it is:
```
#!/bin/sh -e
#
# rc.local
#
# This script is executed at the end of each multiuser runlevel.
# Make sure that the script will "exit 0" on success or any other
# value on error.
#
# In order to enable or disable this script just change the execution
# bits.
#
# By default this script does nothing.

exit 0
``` I have re-booted since then, though.

After a clean re-boot, even into an older kernal, the system is wrecked. Noneof my browsers want to work. I cannot run a traceroute. I set it to trace [www.yahoo.com](www.yahoo.com), and it said that it couldn't find it. Then I opened a browser and went to yahoo. It got there pretty quickly, though nothing looked right. (No graphics, and many lines of text were superimposed on others.) Tried the trace again, and got the same result.
There are some sites that do work flawlessly, though, even ones that run flash and java. I guess it just depends on who owns the site...

---

### Post by denver on 2010-07-12
Your rc.local looks good. This file can only be changed using administrative priviledges, so if you did not input your password, you should be OK.

Browsing the internet and randomly clicking on possibly dangerous websites can harm your PC, but in ubuntu's case it should only affect the user running the X session. If by any chance (verry unlikely) you DO get infected by some virus, you shoul be able to just create a new user account, delete the old one and the virus would be gone (i repeat...verry unlikely).

If however you were browsing with root priviledges on dangerous sites that target Unix/Linux systems, you are boned :).

As others have stated, what you describe sounds like an X server crash (thats the graphics layer on top of linux that paints the user interface on your screen). It happened lots of times to me back when i owned an ATI Radeon graphics card (on youtube or mahjong...didn't discriminate much).

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-12
Your DNS may have been hijacked, check /etc/resolv.conf, it should look something like this:

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 64.59.168.13
nameserver 64.59.168.15
```

the dns addresses in the above example are from my isp, yours should be for your isp, or whomever you use for dns.

---

### Post by cdenley on 2010-07-12
Any problems you have viewing websites is probably unrelated to your X server crash. The problem you describe with Yahoo sounds like it is missing some scripts or stylesheets. Either scripts are being filtered because you configured it to do so, or you are failing to connect to servers hosting some content for that site, such as yimg.com.

---

### Post by Papa-san on 2010-07-12
```
john@john-latitude:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
### BEGIN INFO
#
# Modified_by:  NetworkManager
# Process:      /usr/bin/NetworkManager
# Process_id:   4926
#
### END INFO



nameserver 192.168.0.1


john@john-latitude:~$ 
```
Not sure if this is good or not. Looks like it shows my IP for my system on the wireless network.

I didn't mess with any scripts or stylesheets. (I wouldn't know how.)
But, This thing has been FLAWLESS for over a year, and the change happened with the issue I had...

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-07-12
That looks ok. The IP is likely your router's gateway.

---

### Post by Papa-san on 2010-07-12
Yes, that is the gateway.
OK. I'll update flash and look up some xserver solutions. Thanks!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-12
I have personally had problems with Network-Manager using the routers dns, you can manually enter the dns address in Network-Manager->Edit->IPv4.

You can try a bit of troubleshooting, by opening a terminal and typing:

```
ping www.google.com
```

if that doesn't work, try:

```
ping 74.125.53.106
```

if pinging by number works, then you have a dns problem.

---

### Post by Chromisdesigns on 2010-07-15
I had a similar thing happen to me in Firefox, though not with flash, but the rest of the symptoms sound familiar.  I killed all instances of Firefox, then opened it again and told Firefox to drop the last day of history.  Closed Firefox again, and all was fine after that.  Firefox tries to recreate your tabs and sometimes, I've seen in the Windows version at least, even if you have the "restore my last browser sesssion" preference off, it still tries to go out to recently viewed sites for some reason.
 
Dropping the history fixed this.

---

### Post by Papa-san on 2010-07-19
The pings were inconclusive.

What I have found is that each time I go to a page, I get this really quick message telling me that "This site is trying to re-direct you to another page or open a new window." It runs across the very top of my browsers 'window', just below the toolbar. There is a button that would allow me to accept this, if I wanted, but it disappears VERY quickly...

But, no window opens. My network monitor shows a spike in outgoing traffic for a second or two, then drops off. I have never had anything like this happen before, and it's a bit nerve-racking...

Would it be safest to format and re-install Ubuntu, or just change something with my browser?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-19
If you are using Firefox, create a new profile and see if that makes a difference:

Press Alt-F2 and type:

```
firefox -Profilemanager
```

---

