---
title: "browser virus like symptoms in seamonkey CONTINUES in chromium Trusty"
date: 2014-04-22
forum: Security
---

### Post by nom_bray on 2014-04-22
Hello, 
I am the one who posted the above named thread 2 years ago. Today upgraded xubuntu to Trusty, and chromium scroll bar up and down as if someone bragging they hacked me. 
Last experience told seamonkey the problem; this cannot be so. All ssl heartbleed patched up, brand new install upgraded today from saucy to trusty - and voila, hacker at it again. 
2 years ago post, was just after the repository hacking event -- (see post) -- I recall not coming back here, because in addition, my settings personal stats inside openid were also hacked and bragging fashion to do this by hacker. 
STILL THINK LINUX IS IMMUNE?
wake up, people. Chromium is set to disallow obvious security risks - the clamtk scan points to something in config chromium that ends in tipped.js  javascript???

Please MAKE something for linux, we are in a different world now and linux immunity is foolish to have faith in. I'm seeing it myself, and this is straight after a MASK attack that got them into 3 different internet accounts to leave presents for me. (activist)
Thanks, will check back to see if anyone has an answer this time, before just speculatively blaming the browser type, instead of paying attention that this is a classic sign of malware or virus.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-04-24
Have you tried removing the cache directories for the affected browsers? have you checked your /etc/resolv.conf to see if there has been something beyonf what is supposed to be added?
This is my /etc/resolv.conf output from a very fresh utopic install:

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
```

it should look similar, no matter want flavour of Ubuntu you are using.

Have you tried a fresh install to see if the problem persists?

---

### Post by Kirboosy on 2014-04-24
I'm not sure I understand what is fully going on here with your browser. 

However, Linux has never claimed to be 100% secure. Although it is most likely secure than Windows and Mac that doesn't mean you can throw caution to the wind with security. You still have to be mindful of your surroundings and make sure you don't put yourself at risk of being compromised.

 It sounds like if 3 internet accounts were compromised they were probably compromised remotely and not involved your computer at all. Free public Wi-Fi is still just as dangerous on Linux as it is on any other computer. The lack of details in this post makes it very hard to give a specific answer that will be of help you.

Please take a look at this [post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475&p=8920811&viewfull=1#post8920811") for information on how to get your post answered as quickly as possible.

Hope that helps!
~Caboose

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-04-26
Anytime you suspect malware, the fastest resolution is to reinstall. 

1. Find a secure way to get internet access (don't use free wifi!)
2. Download the iso. Check that the hash of your downloaded version matches the source.
3. Burn the iso to a dvd and make sure it works.
4. Save your data somewhere (cloud, discs, external drive) and verify they're good.
5. Use gparted to completely reformat the entire disk. This will erase any rootkits or other nasties you think you have.
6. Reinstall the operating system from the iso.
7. Restore your data.

---

### Post by WogBoy on 2014-04-26
> 2. Download the iso. Check that the hash of your downloaded version matches the source

Wouldnt it be a good idea to have an iso on CD/DVD just incase? 

I use Kubuntu 14.04 almost as is so I have a iso on DVD.

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-04-27
> **WogBoy said:**
> Wouldnt it be a good idea to have an iso on CD/DVD just incase? 

I use Kubuntu 14.04 almost as is so I have a iso on DVD.
Well yah, that's why you download an iso and burn it to a dvd. Not sure what your talking about.

---

### Post by jon43 on 2014-04-28
> **bashiergui said:**
> Anytime you suspect malware, the fastest resolution is to reinstall. 

1. Find a secure way to get internet access (don't use free wifi!)
2. Download the iso. Check that the hash of your downloaded version matches the source.
3. Burn the iso to a dvd and make sure it works.


Just an FYI for anyone with a suspected security issue who doesn't want to risk downloading the ISO- if you have a store like Fry's around you that would carry Linux magazines, almost all of them come with DVD's of various distros. There is even one Ubuntu-specific magazine that usually includes a disc of all the different flavors (Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu and Lubuntu) that can be installed.

---

### Post by RadicaX on 2014-04-28
Nom Bray, by chance do you SSH your computer or do any kind of remote control for your computer? And as some pointed out, where you hook into your internet can cause the problem too. Like Free Wifi Hotspots. Like Mcdonalds, can make it easier for you to get hacked. It is always good to have java off and things like that too (scripts can do a lot of stuff). I remember something like this happening to me, it turns out it was just the mouse having a bad connection to the computer. Are you sure that maybe the tracking pad might not be giving you problems or something?

---

