---
title: "18.04.2 LTS hack"
date: 2019-04-06
forum: Security
---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-04-06
I would like a confirmation of the SHA256 for Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS which is 22580b9f3b186cc66818e60f44c46f795d708a1ad86b9225c458413b638459c4.  i have had hacks on my Ubuntu here are the symptoms 1. firefox is not the default browser. I use Firefox as my default but it changes even after a reinstall of Firefox 66.02 it is restored with startup preference "always check if firefox is your default" unselected.   2.I cannot prevent the screen saver. I have "screen lock" off and "automatic screen lock" is off but the screen still blanks.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2019-04-06
All the checksums are here: [http://releases.ubuntu.com/bionic/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/bionic/)

Firefox is the default browser so does not need that "always check" to be selected since it is already the default.

As far as the screen going blank, you need to go back to power options and change the screen blanking time: [https://help.ubuntu.com/stable/ubuntu-help/display-blank.html.en](https://help.ubuntu.com/stable/ubuntu-help/display-blank.html.en)

Set it to Never or whatever you prefer.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-04-06
Thanks.  I was able to set the power setting for blanking. The previous version 18.04.1 LTS did not work in the same manner. Isn't Firefox installed by default as "always check if Firefox is your default" enabled ?  I have also noticed in the /tmp directory a file called "ssh-V6nudx8ufighd" this file reappears after a reboot, which I don't understand. I am not using ssh server or client on this station. The previous version ssh-server had to be installed.

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2019-04-07
> [COLOR=#000000]I have also noticed in the /tmp directory a file called "ssh-V6nudx8ufighd" this file reappears after a reboot, which I don't understand. I am not using ssh server or client on this station.[/COLOR]

I think that's probably ssh-agent. It seems to start automatically these days. In my case (kubuntu) it is called by startkde.

In ubuntu it is called by gnome-session. It is present in an 18.04 live usb session.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2019-04-07
Hi cam17,

We do not see anything here to be worried about but obviously there are things you seem concerned with.

I would suggest reading the Ubuntu Security sticky [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812)

In general, the same rules apply as with any operating system; do not open unknown attachments, do not give out personal information online, do not browse on suspicious websites etc.

If you want to add things like NoScript, AdBlock etc. to the browser there is no harm in doing so and it will certainly help you avoid some of the junk out there.

Please feel free to ask anything if you are worried about the security of your system.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-04-07
But I have not installed ssh on my workstation. What is it purpose?  I have also noticed that snapd appears to be installed by defaut installation. do you know if that is true?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2019-04-07
A lot of programs are installed by default, whether you choose to use them or remove them is up to you.

snapd seems quite normal: [https://launchpad.net/snapd](https://launchpad.net/snapd)

If you are concerned, you might want to consider the install option for a minimal installation. This only adds a web browser and the most basic utilities for functionality [https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/02/ubuntu-18-04-minimal-install-option](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2018/02/ubuntu-18-04-minimal-install-option)

You can then later add only what you specifically decide to install.

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2019-04-07
I suspect (but I haven't checked) that you may still get snapd with the minimal install, since system monitor is by default a snap package in 18.04.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-04-07
When I view this Ubuntu site it suggests it has to be installed. [https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/basic-snap-usage#1](https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/basic-snap-usage#1)  I have also noticed that when I try to installed h264 using the command "sudo apt-get install h264enc" It does not work and I just performed the command a few days agojust before this latest reinstall.  Another point for this hack is after a complete reinstall I can no longer see Firewall configuration(Gui) or wireshark in on the ca.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu download configured in "Software & Updates" but I can now see it when I switch to another downloader.  I have noticed April-8-2019 that when I view installed applications in Ubuntu software, firefox is missing even though it is on the dock icon. When I try to open firefox it it slows the whole machine.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-04-11
--I have installed Wireshark and it initially worked but now it does not function and cannot be removed.This is still using the original fresh install.
See enclosed processes

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-04-16
I have noticed that in my /tmp directory there is a config-err-xxx file which should not be there since no updates or apps have been installed.  I have noticed that my workstation appears to crash but it is actual something using a high amount of CPU. this workstation is only running a browser either Firefox or Brave. I then leave the machine running youtube HD video.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-04-23
I have noticed that Ubuntu is calling out to a internet site "connectivity-check.ubuntu.com" which results in IP address 35.224.94.156 and 35.222.85.5 responding and communicating . Can anyone tell me why Ubuntu would be communicating with this site?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2019-04-23
This article is slightly outdated but likely still relevant:
[https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/09/disable-network-connectivity-checking-ubuntu-17-10](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/09/disable-network-connectivity-checking-ubuntu-17-10)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-04-30
In 18.04 and later, many programs are installed via the snap package manager, not using APT.  This is optional.  Some people have removed the entire snap system, if you like and install the packages through apt, apt-get, aptitude, synaptic.  If you choose to remove the snap subsystem on 18.04 and later, please make excellent backups so you can put it back. If the system you are running supports snapshots (VM or with LVM/ZFS), making one BEFORE the removal would be smart.
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1035915/how-to-remove-snap-store-from-ubuntu](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1035915/how-to-remove-snap-store-from-ubuntu)

Snaps provide some interesting features and introduce some new considerations.  I believe that Canonical should have made using any snaps optional and allowed people to specifically choose to install them.  Better integration with APT would be appreciated too.  Adding another, completely separate, package management system sorta sucks, IMHO.

Starting any huge program like firefox has always taken time.  The difference in startup between the snap version and the non-snap version really shouldn't be all that different.  For tiny programs, it would be more noticeable due to the architecture of snaps, flatpaks, or appimages (these are similar ideas).  Canonical has gone Snap-crazy for extremely low-risk programs. This makes zero sense.  Having firefox or thunderbird inside a snap **absolutely DOES make sense**, provided they actually work as before.

---

### Post by VMC on 2019-04-30
I compared it a long time ago, and snap install was larger than using apt. Since then I've always removed snapd along with several other programs. apt is all I will ever use. I hope its still available in the future. Old school I guess in regards to install, but I enjoy what systemd brings to the table vs old school init.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-04-30
I have noticed that if I leave firefox open running a youtube video (several hour video) when I come back to Ubuntu firefox has closed.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-05-13
After reinstalling 18.04.2 LTS I was prompted to remove media and reboot. A message appeared after doing so, can anyone tell me what it refers?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2019-05-13
Did you remove the media before rebooting?

If I pull out the USB too quickly before it gets to BIOS this message sometimes appears. It is absolutely nothing to be concerned about, these are messages from the live media and live file system.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-05-20
The media was removed. the message appearedafter the media was removed and I clicked on a key to continue.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-05-20
After a clean install of 18.04.2 LTS I performed an update of Ubuntu then installed Wireshark to monitor network activity to the drive. I then left Firefox displaying a youtube file and Wireshark continuously monitoring.  When I came back to the workstation Wireshark and Firefox had closed and the screen went into blank screen saver mode. I had disabled screen saver mode prior to doing this test. The Wireshark continuous saved file had been removed.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-05-29
I have noticed while playing a long youtube video as a test that the TLS communications changes from TLS 1.3 the current standard to TLS 1.2. This occurs for the same communications to the same host and should never occur.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2019-05-29
I have to ask this but what do you mean by > I have noticed

You noticed by eyesight, you are using some kind of monitoring software, something else?

Will all due respect, I am confused as to what exactly the problem is here so please enlighten us but with actual evidence such as log files, screenshots or anything else that we can review and use to advise you.

Thanks and have a great day.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-06-03
By I have noticed means I have tried this action on my Desktop Ubuntu workstation and the following results occurred.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-06-03
Ubuntu Desktop has produced an error it wants to send to Ubunutu it is in regards to "/usr/bin/pulseaudio" I have allowed iit to send the error details.  Is anyone familiar with any errors regarding pulseaudio?

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-06-16
While playing a youtube video as a test I chose a PBS video ([https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T76bK2t2r8g&list=PLlHanBMNk-DKQzkktkFKGvJR_9gSRDhBr](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T76bK2t2r8g&list=PLlHanBMNk-DKQzkktkFKGvJR_9gSRDhBr))  and while playing the video it paused for no reason in the middle of play. This occurred on Firefox 67.02

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-06-28
I have installed Brave browser to run the same test as Firefox and the Brave browser will not start from the dock. I have to right click then click on "show details" then click on the brave icon and click on launch to start the browser.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-07-06
I have reinstalled 18.04 and performed the following. -Installed 18.04.2 LTS and enabled ufw firewall -Performed O.S. update then disabled IPV6 and check network activity.

---

### Post by uRock on 2019-07-06
Snort is a fun tool to play with, if you want to watch for nefarious traffic.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-07-17
I will give snort a try.  The latest issue is Ubuntu frezzeses while playing Youtube video and when it reboots it displays the verbose startup instaed of the Ubuntu graphic.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-07-31
I have decided to try Lubuntu to compare operation. I have noticed that Firefox 68.01 in Lubuntu will play live Youtube videos but Ubuntu 18.4.2 LTS will not.   This is from a fresh install.

---

### Post by cam17 on 2019-08-26
Sine I installed Lubuntu I have not had any crashes with the system. Firefox on Lubuntu plays youtubes live videos bit Ubuntu does not and requires me loading video drivers. Why?

---

### Post by uRock on 2019-08-26
Did you file a bug report? I've not had problems with Firefox playing youtube live on any distro installations.

---

