---
title: "11.10 Live USB session - 'knows'/Remembers wifi password - why?"
date: 2012-02-15
forum: Security
---

### Post by kolinab on 2012-02-15
I've been testing encryption on my system, a clean install of 11.10 with an encrypted /home. I tested recovering my files through a live session using my password, to make sure it works. It does! (Using the simple instructions at: [http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2011/04/introducing-ecryptfs-recover-private.html](http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2011/04/introducing-ecryptfs-recover-private.html)

Couldn't be simpler.

What I'm amazed/baffled at, however, is that when I booted into a live session with my Oneiric USB stick to test accessing my encrypted data, somehow my system remembered my wifi password, and even the firefox tabs I had open during my last live session. How is this possible? Isn't my wifi password protected in my keyring, and shouldn't a new live session be 'clean' (i.e. not remember my firefox tabs?)

Thought to post this in General help but decided it was a 'security' question.

Thanks in advance if anybody knows how this works!

K

---

### Post by ld.4lpha on 2012-02-19
It is possible to keep a persistent image on a USB drive.  Since the USB drive is writable, the changes you make (such as FF history, etc.) can be saved to the drive.



LD

---

### Post by kolinab on 2012-02-19
Thanks for the simple answer. Of course I should expect this sort of behaviour from a writeable device but for some reason I was surprised.

K

---

### Post by ld.4lpha on 2012-02-19
Yeah, that would be surprising.  Especially given the fact that I believe one needs to setup the live usb particularly for persistence.  So if I didn't knowingly do that yet saw the same things as you, it would definitely take me by surprise too.

There is some more information on it here, if you're interested:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD/Persistence]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCD/Persistence")




LD

---

### Post by kolinab on 2012-02-19
Great info, thanks. So I guess I'm still surprised then, as I didn't do anything special to set up the USB for persistence. I used Ubuntu's startup disk creator to put my oneiric image on the USB, but I can't remember now what I selected to be done with the leftover space on the drive.

[edit] of course nothing to be surprised about . . . the startup disk creator allows for the extra space on the drive to be writeable or not. Not sure why I didn't pick up on this!

---

