---
title: ".bashrc file"
date: 2009-09-03
forum: Security
---

### Post by r5r4y on 2009-09-03
Hello,
i've just looked inside my home folder hidden files, it's shows there .bashrc file, which i can edit and it's owned by normal user and not root user...

i think it's dangerous for this file to be under the control of normal user, how can i change it's permissions and make it owned by ROOT user?

should this file can be stayed under normal user control without concern for something to happen? 

Thanks!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-09-03
Each user has their own .bashrc file, to modify as they see fit. Leave its ownership as is.

---

### Post by cdenley on 2009-09-03
There is a legitimate security concern which has been discussed here before related to privilege escalation. Basically, it can be used to spoof commands such as sudo using aliases, potentially capturing your password and escalating to root privileges. Simply changing the permissions on the file wouldn't help since an attacker that already compromised your admin account can simply replace the file instead of editing it. This command will set an attribute to prevent any modification (even by root) until the flag is removed (by root).
```

sudo chattr +i ~/.bashrc

```

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-09-03
> **cdenley said:**
> There is a legitimate security concern which has been discussed here before related to privilege escalation. Basically, it can be used to spoof commands such as sudo using aliases, potentially capturing your password and escalating to root privileges. Simply changing the permissions on the file wouldn't help since an attacker that already compromised your admin account can simply replace the file instead of editing it. This command will set an attribute to prevent any modification (even by root) until the flag is removed (by root).
```

sudo chattr +i ~/.bashrc

```

That alone will not work, you need to do that action on any file that the bashrc sources. Including .bash_profile, .bash_logout etc.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-09-03
> **cdenley said:**
> There is a legitimate security concern which has been discussed here before related to privilege escalation. Basically, it can be used to spoof commands such as sudo using aliases, potentially capturing your password and escalating to root privileges. Simply changing the permissions on the file wouldn't help since an attacker that already compromised your admin account can simply replace the file instead of editing it. This command will set an attribute to prevent any modification (even by root) until the flag is removed (by root).
```

sudo chattr +i ~/.bashrc

```

Thread closed. This has been discussed many many times.

Basically if an intruder can edit your users's .bashrc it is an indication your system has been compromised. In such a case there are hundreds of potential methods of attack.

The problem is the original crack, the one that allows access to .bashrc, and not .bashrc

Once you are cracked you are in deep trouble, and the only potential tools that can possibly help would be Apparmor or SELinux, although I would not rely on those tools either.

---

