---
title: "12.04-How does &quot;it&quot; know that &quot;Updates [are] Available&quot;?"
date: 2012-08-10
forum: Security
---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-08-10
I don't want any "checking for updates" without my strict permission...
[B]
Is this not a security issue? [/B]


All of this began  with getting the auto-downloading disabled:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2029959](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2029959)
Also see this more general thread on automatic updates:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2031754](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2031754)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-08-10
This is how I have software-sources-gtk set on my system, the only time I get the update notification is after I've manually run an update, either via synaptic, or:

```
aptitude update
```

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-08-11
Yea I must have something messed up on this - it was installed just at the first day of the release.  I need to reinstall this one after Aug 23; for 12.04.01

Thanks!
MRK

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-08-11
No need to do a fresh install.

If you just update normally then after 12.04.1 is released that is the version you'll have.
12.04.1 is exactly the same as 12.04 but just with all the packages updated to their latest versions.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-08-11
> **Cheesemill said:**
> No need to do a fresh install.

If you just update normally then after 12.04.1 is released that is the version you'll have.
12.04.1 is exactly the same as 12.04 but just with all the packages updated to their latest versions.
Yep.

@OP: I just checked my stock Precise box and it has the same "Updates are available" message.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-08-11
> **CharlesA said:**
> Yep.

@OP: I just checked my stock Precise box and it has the same "Updates are available" message.

But that is exactly what OP seems to be "concerned" about as a security issue:
> I don't want any "checking for updates" without my strict permission...

"Updates are available" implies that something has sneakily compared versions on OP's machine with versions elsewhere and found that a more recent version is available. I guess OP doesn't want even that comparison to be done. (We're not talking about the actual updating.)

---

### Post by marin123 on 2012-08-11
Go to Ubuntu Software Center, Edit-> Software Sources, Updates tab.

First drop-down from the top says Automatically check for updates: Daily.

Set it to Never and Ubuntu won't check for updates automatically, and you won't get Updates available message.

It is not a security issue because apt-get update just gets versions of packages available in repos.

EDIT: FYI, checking for updates daily is normal behavior in freshly installed Ubuntu. I don't see what all the fuss is about...

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-08-11
> **marin123 said:**
> Go to Ubuntu Software Center, Edit-> Software Sources, Updates tab.

First drop-down from the top says Automatically check for updates: Daily.

Set it to Never and Ubuntu won't check for updates automatically, and you won't get Updates available message.

It is not a security issue because apt-get update just gets versions of packages available in repos.

EDIT: FYI, checking for updates daily is normal behavior in freshly installed Ubuntu. I don't see what all the fuss is about...
This and unless you want to check for updates manually daily or weekly, it is a bad idea to turn it off.

---

### Post by Hungry Man on 2012-08-11
What's the concern?

---

### Post by vexorian on 2012-08-11
> **Hungry Man said:**
> What's the concern?
I think ubuntu downloads the package lists at some point during installation (It would be impractical to leave the install with a preliminary package list). If you choose not to update, then you have no choice but admit that there are updated available and that the update manager knows it.

If you configure the manger like in the second post, it should make it stop downloading package lists automatically. But of course, if it already downloaded a package list and you haven't installed the updates yet. You cannot find a MiB device to make the package manager forget about it ^^. Although I guess that perhaps you could disable all repos.

I think that not installing security updates would be a much bigger security issue than this...

---

### Post by ottosykora on 2012-08-12
> **cariboo907 said:**
> This is how I have software-sources-gtk set on my system, the only time I get the update notification is after I've manually run an update, either via synaptic, or:

```
aptitude update
```

The line updates available... in the menu is always there on my install, regardless if updates are there or not.
It is apparently just an entry in the menu where one can open it and see if updates are there or not.
Even after I update all, this menu entry remains there.

So I dont see what to worry abt.

---

### Post by Carborundum on 2012-08-14
> **ottosykora said:**
> The line updates available... in the menu is always there on my install, regardless if updates are there or not.
It is apparently just an entry in the menu where one can open it and see if updates are there or not.
Even after I update all, this menu entry remains there.

So I dont see what to worry abt.
That string should change to "Software Up To Date" when no updates are available.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-08-14
The point is no "online" contacting "home" without permission - or more better (as they say) no online outgoing transmissions  or inbound "scanning my system" without permission.

Makes sense from a security standpoint; if "A" automatically checks for updates by seeing what I have here, then why can't "B" check for TS/SCI headers (or whatever) here and store a cookie, a few random bits, or use my broadband to phone home to ET or UBL?

Thanks.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-08-14
> **emarkay said:**
> The point is no "online" contacting "home" without permission - or more better (as they say) no online outgoing transmissions  or inbound "scanning my system" without permission.

Then turn checking for updates off.

> Makes sense from a security standpoint; if "A" automatically checks for updates by seeing what I have here, then why can't "B" check for TS/SCI headers (or whatever) here and store a cookie, a few random bits, or use my broadband to phone home to ET or UBL?

If you are worried about your OS phoning home to <insert government agency here> use a different OS, lock down your outbound firewall or just don your tinfoil hat. ;)

If you don't trust the distro you are running, use a different distro. Debian, Mint, Fedora, Scientific, take your pick.

As a sidenote: Even Debian and Fedora check for updates automatically, if that is a huge deal, turn it off and do it yourself.

In any case, the packages in the repos are signed with GPG, so their integrity can be verified.

---

### Post by rookcifer on 2012-08-17
> **emarkay said:**
> I don't want any "checking for updates" without my strict permission...
[B]
Is this not a security issue? [/B]


How is it a security issue?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-08-17
My suggestion would be that if you dislike Ubuntu checking your geo-location, time servers and updates, Ubuntu may not be the distribution for you. Ubuntu is designed to be easy to use for most types of users. If you are removing packages you don't like, possibly breaking your installation, you may be better off using a distribution that allows you much more control of what is installed. This means of course that you will have to learn how to do things the Linux way, instead of doing things the same way you do them in Windows.

If I want to control what is installed, I usually do a Debian net-install, this allows me to install only what I need, without a lot of extra cruft. I have Debian stable installed on an Apple G4, and I rarely do updates on it, it's been up with the same install for the last 3 years, and I doubt if in that time I've done an update more than 2 or 3 times. I have the system blocked from the internet in my router, and I specifically have to unblock it in order to do any updates. The system serves as an mp3 player, and has no need to access the internet. I turn it on when I go out to my shop, it automagically starts playing music, and when I leave, I turn it off.

---

