---
title: "12.04-How to disable &quot;Software Sources' automatic download?"
date: 2012-07-20
forum: Security
---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-20
In "Software Sources, I can not change the setting of "When there are security updates" from "Download and install automatically".  Two other options are available, but selecting them does not work; it always reverts to the above. I have disabled Update Notifier in Startup Applications.  This doesn't seem to be configurable in "menu.list"

While I am sure it is auto-downloading only the files from the trusted repositories I have selected, I want the ability to approve what is being downloaded and from where.

Also for those with modems or in other access-controlled environments, the inability to change this setting could be a problem.

Thanks.

---

### Post by ottosykora on 2012-07-20
yes but this does not download the software in fact, just the list of the software which can be downloaded. Means only updates the catalog of available updates and not the updates itself. You can still later decide what to install and what not.

If the catalog would not be updated, then you would also have no idea what can be update or what should be updated or if there is new version there etc.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-20
I don't believe that is true. 
I can see disk activity as if it was installing, and also, if I re-run it I get "The  software has been downloaded but not installed". 
Also sometimes I run it on initial boot and maybe 10 updates show;  then I cancel and exit.  A few minutes later I do the same, and only 2 or 3 show.

It's downloading ... and installing!

---

### Post by ottosykora on 2012-07-20
but when you changed some settings in the sources config, did you simply close the dialog box or did you reconfigure the sources? This need to be done, well you click then ok and then the whole sources dialog will start to check and reconfigure itself. If not done then no changes will be applied.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-20
On the GUI it is "revert "and "close" - like "exit and do not save" and "exit and save"

Of course this is all related to "Update Manager" but the point is I can NOT disable any automatic update checking; and evidently, not even downloading!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-07-20
Are you using elevated privileges (sudo/gksu) when trying to change the settings?

---

### Post by LiamOS on 2012-07-20
I've never been a fan of the update manager, so in most of my Ubuntu-based installations I 
```
# apt-get remove update-manager
```

Admittedly, this is a very bashful way around it, but it leaves me free to update how and when I want, without the update manager bothering me all the time. I'm not sure if this is what you want, but it's worth considering if you do most of your system management from the terminal.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-20
Yea, yea, yea, yank the GUI... OK I can do that...

But, no doing all this in 10.04-simulated gnome-classic.  Going from "Software Up to Date" to "Update manager" to "Settings" to "Software Sources" to "Updates" to "When There are security updates"...

Not using Terminal on this.

But, I can do that - so what file configs all this (it 's not menu.list"...)?

Thanks!
MRK

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-22
Anyone else?  Can you confirm this? 
I had it again do a automatic download last night without any intervention.
Thanks.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2012-07-22
If you remove Update Manager, you can still get updates from Synaptic Package Manager. Click the "status" tab and select "Installed (upgradable)" Of course, you will need to install Synaptic first.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-23
Correct, but will that stop the automatic downloading of updates?

Wouldn't it be better to have the feature which is  already present in Software Sources be made to work as it is designed to?

Where is the config file for this setting?

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2012-07-24
You can modify /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades and comment out the top section to make it look like this (normally -security is not commented out):

```
// Automatically upgrade packages from these (origin:archive) pairs
Unattended-Upgrade::Allowed-Origins {
//	"${distro_id}:${distro_codename}-security";
//	"${distro_id}:${distro_codename}-updates";
//	"${distro_id}:${distro_codename}-proposed";
//	"${distro_id}:${distro_codename}-backports";
};
```

Then the only way to install updates is manually no matter what options you set in software-sources.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-24
Thank you!  I will test this tonight.

So this is a bug...  Has anything been filed on this that you are aware of?

---

