---
title: "Software copyright protection"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Security
---

### Post by bastienauneau on 2010-10-11
Hi all

I did not really know where to post, so I came here.

Here is the situation : at my job, we need to protect the software we distribute. We are using the ID of some PCI device (ASI board) used by our software. The software will not run if the device(s) with the specified ID(s) are not present. Now the idea is to improve the system of allowing the software to run.

Rather than hardcoding the ID(s) in the code. I would like to create a file with the specified ID(s) which allows the software to run. Then I can easily distribute the license files, as keys, to diverse customers through the internet. But I need to protect the license file, to avoid non authorized add of ID(s). The license file should then ce crypted using a private RSA key. The software has the related public key, and decrypt the license file at startup. If the file has syntax problem (it will probably be an XML file), or if the PC does not have a device with one of the specified ID, it won't run.

Logicaly, it looks fine, but I would like to get some opinions. Maybe there is some huge pit fall I haven't seen yet.

Thanks

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2010-10-11
Well, I don't immediately see any reason why it wouldn't work, although in circumstances like this the key distribution should probably be through more secure means than the web. I'm thinking for example of sending a physical object through the post/mail or some other shipping solution.

Gotta be honest, though, this is a strange question to ask on a Linux board.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-10-12
Hmm, on Linux systems, any kind of key is very easy to circumvent.  So you are probably wasting your time.  The honour system is usually all you need and it is zero maintenance and bug free.

---

### Post by bastienauneau on 2010-10-12
What do you mean by : 
  "Hmm, on Linux systems, any kind of key is very easy to circumvent"
I planned to use OpenSSH, with a big length. I do not think this is easy to circumvent ?

---

### Post by movieman on 2010-10-12
> **bastienauneau said:**
> What do you mean by : 
  "Hmm, on Linux systems, any kind of key is very easy to circumvent"
I planned to use OpenSSH, with a big length. I do not think this is easy to circumvent ?

You're apparently planning to link your licensing to a PCI ID. Anyone wanting to pirate it on Linux can just hack the kernel to report the relevant ID, so it would only stop the least dedicated pirates.

---

### Post by bastienauneau on 2010-10-12
I will actually use an ID retrieved through a proprietary API, and the software is running on windows. So I guess, this voids the previous comment ?

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-10-12
Well, if your software is running on Windows and both SSH endpoints are under your control, then only a man in the middle attack can compromise your system.

However, if you intend to sell the Windows software and it will run on your client's computer then one endpoint is not under your control and someone could still compromise your system by using a hacked version of SSL on Windows.

---

### Post by bastienauneau on 2010-10-12
What do you mean by hacked version of SSL ? The public key indeed will be in the DLL, or in the build folder, but it's the public key, meant to be distributed. Also, I will make a very big key, size is not an issue in this case.

I don't think man in the middle is an issue here, because we don't exchange any key. The software just decrypt a file. Since I am the only one able to encrypt the file with corresponding private key, I am sure that the list of ID has not been hacked or generated by someone else... or I mistake, and some smart *** will explain me why ;-)

---

### Post by movieman on 2010-10-12
> **bastienauneau said:**
> I don't think man in the middle is an issue here, because we don't exchange any key. The software just decrypt a file. Since I am the only one able to encrypt the file with corresponding private key, I am sure that the list of ID has not been hacked or generated by someone else... or I mistake, and some smart *** will explain me why ;-)

If the key is in the DLL, it can be replaced by a different key, or the DLL checks can just be patched out.

Any kind of software copy protection is breakable, unless you also have complete control of the hardware and make it explode if someone tampers with it. The real questions are:

1. Who cares enough to break it?
2. What are the potential consequences for them if they do?

If no-one really wants to break it then even using ROT13 on your license file would be enough. If someone really wants to break it then encryption will merely delay them because your software needs to decrypt the license and therefore must store the key somewhere.

Most of the 'pro' software I run on Windows uses dongles, but it's popular enough that anyone who wants a cracked version can download it from a bazillion pirate sites. However, the dongles work for the majority of the market, because few companies are going to run cracked software when they know they'll face a big fine if they're discovered to be doing so... if the people downloading cracked versions aren't worried about that, then they're never going to pay for it anyway.

I'm also not quite sure why you're asking questions about Windows copy protection on a Linux forum :).

---

### Post by bastienauneau on 2010-10-13
So it is my responsibility, to decide that this protection is good enough. And I asked this question here because it is related to private/public key, and that I like Ubuntu Forum.

To summarize, the weakness are :
_ leak of private key
_ replacement of the public key in the DLL
_ removal of the ID check in the DLL

I am not sure how easy it is to modify the DLL in a right way. Probably it depends on the software. We have a Java GUI loading the DLL, so this makes it easier, if the jar is reverse engineered. So splitting the key across the DLL should help.

Finally, I am interested in this solution also because it allows easy management of license files per customer, and that the same DLL can be used for all customers.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-10-14
Attacking a keyed Windows system is really not very difficult.  You use a utility from the Microsoft Sysinternals site to show you the API calls.  You can then edit the relevant DLL with a disassembler and a hex editor, or you can run the relevant DLL in a debugger.  

If the key system is done in a really retarded way (the usual in other words) then all you need to do is find the key check and modify the first instruction to return immediately with a true value as if the key check passed.

If the key system is more complex then you can insert a jump at the start of the target procedure to the end of the file, where you print the key value, then execute the instruction that you overwrote with the jump instruction and then jump back to the next instruction after the inserted jump.

Any junior embedded system programmer can do that in a few hours.

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-10-14
An alternative might be to incorporate something in the software that gets it to "call home" to do some of the checks, but even that way isn't perfect.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-14
I've dealt with customers that use high-end software that uses a dongle, that is more than enough to stop the casual user from trying to pirate the software. In this case it was software that translated court reporter generated key-strokes to human readable text.

This was quite a few years ago, it is all mostly transcribed from recordings now.

The customer has since retired, and every once in a while I have to go to his house to extract a court transcript from the computer they are stored on. as he has forgotten how to transfer files from  Win98 to his current laptop.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-10-15
A better way (to my mind anyway), is to incorporate a feature that will check for updates from your server once a month.  That way, you know who is using your software and your sales people can then follow up if you want.

---

