---
title: "encrypted /home problem"
date: 2009-05-21
forum: Security
---

### Post by tkinek on 2009-05-21
I had a kubuntu 9.04 with encrypted /home (installation from alternate cd), i **didn`t** change encrypt password. Then I one more time install kubuntu (on this same partitions), but the partition with /home wasn`t formated.
Now, i have new system with encrypted data from old system.

There is **any** possibility to recover encrypted data?

---

### Post by tubbygweilo on 2009-05-21
tkinek,
When installing an encrypted /home via ubuntu 9.04 alt install I managed to record the key/passphrase as a terminal session during a system update.

> Record your encryption passphrase 

To encrypt your home directory or "Private" folder, a strong passphrase has been autogenerated. Usually your directory is unlocked with your user password, but if you ever need to manually recover this directory, you will need this passphrase. Please print or write it down and store it in a safe location. 
You can run the "ecryptfs-unwrap-passphrase" command now to do this. Enter your user password at the "Passphrase" prompt. 

Passphrase: 
thiswillbealonghexpassphraseyouneedtounlockthedata 
[Enter] 


This may well be a way forward for you to unlock your old data.

Best of luck

---

### Post by tkinek on 2009-05-21
But the problem is I didn`t change autogenerated passphrase, so I don`t know it.

---

### Post by tubbygweilo on 2009-05-21
If you didn't change it then do you have a record of the first one and can not that be used?

---

### Post by tkinek on 2009-05-21
The first passphrase was autogenerated and I didn`t record it.

---

### Post by tubbygweilo on 2009-05-21
tkinek,
> I didn`t record it 
is the root of your problem and I have a sinking feeling that you may not be able to recover your data unless you can guess, remember or crack the passphrase.

So sorry I could not help.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2009-05-21
Well, you must have used some passphrase at some point to open the encrypted folder.  What kind of encryption did you use?  If it was LUKS, read this article below and then maybe you will understand better what is going on:
[http://aeronetworks.ca/luks-usb-howto.html](http://aeronetworks.ca/luks-usb-howto.html)

In general, once you have stuff encrypted, then you should stop messing with the system.  For example, I do not do updates on my secure systems.  The risk of breaking something is just to great.  Instead of doing updates, I re-install them from scratch every year or three and the rest of the time I just leave them alone.  Don't fix it if it ain't broke.

---

