---
title: "iptables questions"
date: 2010-03-11
forum: Security
---

### Post by jlm33990 on 2010-03-11
in case my pix firewall should fail I want a ubuntu 9.04 box to step in and provide basic protection until the pix problem is resolved.
-allow anything out & the return traffic back in
-allow www into internal server
-allow smtp into internal servers
 
assumptions...
all outgoing traffic must have firewall addr as source
pix firewall listens on outside net for www & smtp and passes traffic to machines on internal net. assume outside net is x.x.x and inside y.y.y
I realize I will need to provide routing to the inside net on ubuntu..no problem.
 
question 1 - how do I tell ubuntu & iptables to listen/process the www & smtp traffic? my guess is that I need to add multiple addresses(.12, .9 & .7)to the outside interface but am not sure.
 
question 2 - is this iptables config correct for the purpose and/or could it be more secure/better?
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.1.1 on Thu Mar 11 11:19:05 2010
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [23:2228]
-A PREROUTING -d x.x.x.12/32 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 80 -j DNAT --to-desti
nation y.y.y.6 
-A PREROUTING -d x.x.x..9/32 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 25 -j DNAT --to-desti
nation y.y.y.5 
-A PREROUTING -d x.x.x.7/32 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 25 -j DNAT --to-destin
ation y.y.y.38 
-A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE 
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Mar 11 11:19:05 2010
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.1.1 on Thu Mar 11 11:19:05 2010
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [83:8200]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [340:26698]
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -j DROP 
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Mar 11 11:19:05 2010
 
thanks for the help.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-03-11
I assume thaa eth0 is your public interface, because this is the one you are masquerading, and NATting incoming traffic for.

Your PREROUTING clauses should be checking the destination port, not the source port. Incoming calls will be coming to ports 25/80 on your servers, not from them.

In your INPUT chain, you don't need to check for (and allow) packets to ports 25/80 unless you are actually running those servers on this box - the INPUT chain is only used for packets addressed to the box, not packets passing through it.

Again on the INPUT chain, I would be inclined to set a default policy of DROP rather than use the explicit DROP at the end of the list, although that's just personal preference.

Other than that, it looks pretty good to me. You've done well.

You will also need to enable IP forwarding of course. Adding the following command to /etc/rc.local should do that for you:
```
echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```
or precede it with sudo if you want to do it by hand.

P.S.
And if your router can do IPv6, don't forget to protect IPv6 resources with ip6tables.

---

### Post by jlm33990 on 2010-03-11
yes Cog - eth0 is the outside nic - x.x.x network.
 
thanks for the port heads up..I should check dport as you said.
 
I will remove the rules from the input chain for smtp & www. There seems to be a lot of info on the web on howto's. some of them require the INPUT chain rules others don't. others require FORWARD rules which I was tempted to include like the following..
-A FORWARD -p tcp -i eth0 -d y.y.y.38 --dport 25 -j ACCEPT
 
I take it that is unnecessary? 
Simply having the DNAT statements alone are enough to accept and pass 
the traffic into the servers inside? 
 
I need to learn more about iptables? Any suggestions..books/links?
I looked on netfilter.org and was not happy.
 
BTW - any comments on my original question 1 - how to I tell it to listen
for the new ip's?
Thanks for the help...

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-03-11
> I will remove the rules from the input chain for smtp & www. There seems to be a lot of info on the web on howto's. some of them require the INPUT chain rules others don't. others require FORWARD rules which I was tempted to include like the following..
-A FORWARD -p tcp -i eth0 -d y.y.y.38 --dport 25 -j ACCEPT

Two things. 

Firstly, the INPUT chain filters packets that are being input to the OS - where the packet is addressed to the PC as the final destination. On the other hand, the FORWARD chain filters packets that the PC is forwarding - packets being routed through the PC, addressed to some other address. If you're using the PC as a firewall, you are just forwarding packets through and you don't need (or want) to allow anything on the INPUT chain. If you're using the PC as a server, then it's not forwarding packets like a router, but you to want to allow some INPUT traffic. It's to do with whether you are talking **to** it or **through** it.

Secondly, each chain has a policy which can be either ACCEPT or DROP. This is what happens to packets that aren't singled out by an earlier explicit rule. For servers that are not forwarding packets, you don't need to worry about the FORWARD chain, but I would always set the INPUT chain to default DROP. For routers/firewalls, you also need to worry about the FORWARD chain, and again I would probably set the policy to DROP and then explicitly accept only those packets I want.

Thirdly, I'm an idiot. I forgot that last little bit earlier, and you are right. The two lines I said you don't need on the INPUT chain should be on the FORWARD chain instead, and the FORWARD default policy should be changed to DROP. It would have worked without the FORWARD rules there as long as the default policy was ACCEPT, but that's too open really. Better to close it off and only allow what you need. So as you spotted, you need both a NAT rule and a FORWARD ACCEPT rule for each incoming connection type.

Fourthly, with a default DROP on the FORWARD chain, you will need either a rule that allows RELATED,ESTABLISHED through (the return direction - replies to the incoming connections) or simply a rule that allows all packets out to the internet - either by permitting packets with a source address matching all the IP addresses you know to be internal, or simply by allowing all packets incoming from eth1.

Fifthly, if you set your INPUT policy to DROP (or leave the explicit DROP at the end of the list) you can't manage it remotely. If you feel the need for remote access to it, I would suggest only allowing SSH (TCP port 22), and only from the internal interface and internal network source addresses - not from the internet.

Googling for "iptables tutorial" will turn up several good links to try. This one is a corker for those nights when you can't sleep: [http://lartc.org/howto/](http://lartc.org/howto/) but it's not an iptables tutorial.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-03-11
> question 1 - how do I tell ubuntu & iptables to listen/process the www & smtp traffic? my guess is that I need to add multiple addresses(.12, .9 & .7)to the outside interface but am not sure.
I'm not sure what you mean by this. The iptables rules we have been discussing are all to do with forwarding www and smtp traffic. It is identified by having a destination (server) port of 80 or 25.

If you only had one www server and one email server, you could have made them both share the same public address e.g. x.x.x.9 even if they get translated to different addresses internally. You could map x.x.x.9:25 to the mail server and x.x.x.9:80 to the www server. But since you have 2 email servers and they both have to listen on port 25, you will need at least 2 public addresses.
I'm thinking something like this:
```
iptables -P PREROUTING ACCEPT
iptables -A PREROUTING -d x.x.x.12 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination y.y.y.6
iptables -A PREROUTING -d x.x.x..9 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 25 -j DNAT --to-destination y.y.y.5
iptables -A PREROUTING -d x.x.x.7 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 25 -j DNAT --to-destination y.y.y.38

iptables -P POSTROUTING ACCEPT
iptables -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE

iptables -P FORWARD DROP
iptables -A FORWARD -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT

iptables -P INPUT DROP
iptables -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -i eth1 -p tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT

iptables -P OUTPUT ACCEPT

```
Maybe the forwarding should also check the destination addresses as well as the ports, or maybe it's overkill. I do on my firewall config:
```
iptables -P FORWARD DROP
iptables -A FORWARD -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp -d x.x.x.12 --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp -d x.x.x..9 --dport 25 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp -d x.x.x..7 --dport 25 -j ACCEPT

```

---

### Post by jlm33990 on 2010-03-11
currently I have 4 public ip #'s
x.x.x.2   pix firewall
x.x.x.9   smtp server
x.x.x.7   smtp server
x.x.x.12 www server
since the replacement, the ubuntu iptables box, will now have the .2 address it's unclear to me how it will process traffic to .9 .7 & .12.
the way I understand ethernet it will simply drop packets not destined for itself (.2).
thats why I wonder if I have to add .7 .9 & 12 as additional ip addresses for eth0.
 
the ubuntu box will be my new firewall, only passing traffic to internal servers. I can manage it locally at the console so remote access is not a concern.
again, this is only a cover my ***** exercise in case the cisco pix firewall dies. it's good to have*** *****contingencies.******
> **The Cog said:**
> I'm not sure what you mean by this. The iptables rules we have been discussing are all to do with forwarding www and smtp traffic. It is identified by having a destination (server) port of 80 or 25.

If you only had one www server and one email server, you could have made them both share the same public address e.g. x.x.x.9 even if they get translated to different addresses internally. You could map x.x.x.9:25 to the mail server and x.x.x.9:80 to the www server. But since you have 2 email servers and they both have to listen on port 25, you will need at least 2 public addresses.
I'm thinking something like this:
```
iptables -P PREROUTING ACCEPT
iptables -A PREROUTING -d x.x.x.12 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination y.y.y.6
iptables -A PREROUTING -d x.x.x..9 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 25 -j DNAT --to-destination y.y.y.5
iptables -A PREROUTING -d x.x.x.7 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 25 -j DNAT --to-destination y.y.y.38

iptables -P POSTROUTING ACCEPT
iptables -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE

iptables -P FORWARD DROP
iptables -A FORWARD -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT

iptables -P INPUT DROP
iptables -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -i eth1 -p tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT

iptables -P OUTPUT ACCEPT

```Maybe the forwarding should also check the destination addresses as well as the ports, or maybe it's overkill. I do on my firewall config:
```
iptables -P FORWARD DROP
iptables -A FORWARD -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp -d x.x.x.12 --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp -d x.x.x..9 --dport 25 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp -d x.x.x..7 --dport 25 -j ACCEPT

```

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-03-12
I **assume** that your ISP's router is ip address x.x.x.1, puting the router, the pix and all the public addresses on the same subnet.

I also gather that you want the Ubuntu box to be a drop-in replacement for the pix, with the same IP addresses. That's probably easiest actually.

Since the addresses are all on the same subnet, the ISP router will try to talk to the other public addresses by using ARP to find their MAC addresses. The easiest way to get the Ubuntu box to answer the ARP queries is to give it those IP addresses. These commands will do the trick:```

sudo ifconfig eth0:1 x.x.x.7 netmask 255.255.255.0
sudo ifconfig eth0:2 x.x.x.9 netmask 255.255.255.0
sudo ifconfig eth0:3 x.x.x.12 netmask 255.255.255.0

```
The number after the eth0: can be any number you choose, you may perfer to number them eth0:7,9,12 instead. 

You will also need to add the appropriate routes to the Ubuntu box. You will want a default route pointing outwards towards the internet, and more specific routes pointing inwards towards your other routers (if there's more than one internal network).
The default route (default gateway) to the internet router (x.x.x.1) can be done as part of the normal IP address configuration. Any route to other internal networks will need configuring manually though. Assuming your internal router is y.y.y.1 and behind that is internal network z.z.z, then you need a command like this:
```
sudo route add -net z.z.z.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 gw y.y.y.1
```

---

### Post by jlm33990 on 2010-03-12
Cog-
thanks again for the help. I will test this out shortly. more questions. hope you don't mind.
I want to make this as easy as possible in case I'm not available after the pix failure.
I will write up instructions.
Here's what I'm thinking.
I created a file called interfaces-pix
```
root@butu2:/etc/network# more interfaces-pix
auto lo
   iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0 eth0:7 eth0:9 eth0:12
   iface eth0 inet static
   address x.x.x.2
   netmask 255.255.255.0

   iface eth0:7 inet static
   address x.x.x.7
   netmask 255.255.255.0

   iface eth0:9 inet static
   address x.x.x.9
   netmask 255.255.255.0

   iface eth0:12 inet static
   address x.x.x.12
   netmask 255.255.255.0

auto eth1
   iface eth1 inet static
   address a.a.a.2
   netmask 255.255.255.0
 
pre-up route add default gw x.x.x.1 eth0
pre-up route add -net y.y.y.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 gw a.a.a.1 eth1
pre-up cat 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward 

```I will then instruct as follows..
```
cp interfaces-pix interfaces
iptables-restore < iptables-pix
patch ubuntu nics to appropriate swithes... & unplug pix nics
/etc/init.d/networking restart
```if you know please comment on the validity of my interfaces-pix syntax. I'm especially concerned with the pre-up's. Can they be standalone directives as shown or must they be part of a iface stanza?
x.x.x.1 is my external router -internet
a.a.a.1 is my internal router - lan (smtp & http servers y.y.y network)

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-03-12
I'm not sure about your interfaces setup. I'm not sure (never tried) that you can list multiple interfaces on one line like this: **auto eth0 eth0:7 eth0:9 eth0:12**. 

I'm also pretty certain that you can't add routes until the interfaces they are going through are up (configured with IP addresses, and cables connected). So the routing additions need to be post-up I think.

Otherwise it looks good to me, but we've probably missed something.

Oh - it may take a while to start working even if you get it right because you will have to wait for the ARP caches in the routers to time out and learn that the PIX IP addresses have got new MAC addresses.

---

