---
title: "10.04 installation asked me if I'd like enrypted home folders. What would that do?"
date: 2010-06-09
forum: Security
---

### Post by isync on 2010-06-09
During a recent Ubuntu 10.04 i386 installation the wizard asked me if I would like "enrypted home folders" which get "decrypted upon login".
Now, after I chose the standard non-encrypted way, I am curious what the Ubuntu developers would have given me as setup if I had chosen the encrypted way.

Can someone give me a rough description of how Ubuntu would set up "encrypted home folders"? What is Ubuntu's/Debian's/Linux's current/standard way of doing this? (So I might replicate it in the future belatedly...)

---

### Post by movieman on 2010-06-09
It uses ecryptfs. The easiest way to think of it is that it encrypts all your files with your login password and automatically decrypts them when accessed, though the actual implementation is rather more complex.

Personally I have it enabled on our netbook and laptop but not on the desktop systems. It did cause a substantial performance hit for disk access on the netbook, but not on the laptop (whose CPU is about 10x faster). Either way, I'd rather know that if the netbook gets lost no-one will be able to read the files than have those files open slightly faster.

---

### Post by Agent ME on 2010-06-09
If you run "ecryptfs-setup-private" you will get a folder called "Private", which all files in it are automatically encrypted before hitting the disk by your password *(technically encrypted by a key in ~/.ecryptfs which is encrypted by your password; this lets you change your password and only need to reencrypt the key instead of everything)*. The files aren't available to the system at all when you're not logged in.

Picking the option in the installer to encrypt your home directory works pretty similar, but instead of just the ~/Private directory being encrypted, ~ (your whole home directory; all your own files) is encrypted. You can add a user account with this feature later by using the "--encrypt-home" argument to the "adduser" command.

If you want to migrate your current account to be entirely encrypted, I would just recommend adding a new user account with the setting as detailed above and to move your files over from the old account, but if you're up to it [this tutorial](http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/06/migrating-to-encrypted-home-directory.html) details how to do it directly.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-06-10
Howdy,

in security speak, encryption protects your data at rest.  In plain English, it protects your data when your machine is powered down.  If someone would steal your machine and power it up, then he won't be able to access your data.

Considering the hassle with having your credit card accounts stolen, you should ALWAYS encrypt your data this way.

---

### Post by markjrouse on 2010-06-10
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]I would say that it is definitely worth having it even on a desktop, especially if it is a server, and especially if it is a server at home. If someone breaks in and steals my box, then potentially any data in your home folder is accessible.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by isync on 2010-06-11
Thanks guys for such in-depth answers!
That's what makes Ubuntu and the forums here so great! :)

note to self: [http://www.blog.arun-prabha.com/2008/08/15/ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-alpha-4-released/](http://www.blog.arun-prabha.com/2008/08/15/ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-alpha-4-released/)

---

### Post by GeoMX on 2010-07-23
I have one question, if I don't select encryption at install prompt, how can I enable it later? Would I only be able to enable encription for the mentioned private folder or for the whole /home directory?

Thank you.

---

### Post by movieman on 2010-07-23
> **GeoMX said:**
> I have one question, if I don't select encryption at install prompt, how can I enable it later? Would I only be able to enable encription for the mentioned private folder or for the whole /home directory?

You can enable it later, but it's a pain; I don't know of any automated method of converting a directory so you have to manually move files around and create relevant configuration.

---

### Post by GeoMX on 2010-07-23
Do you think I can create a new user with full crypted home directory? I can add an user and then move my files, I can bear a new user name ;).

The other way would be a system reinstall...

---

### Post by movieman on 2010-07-23
> **GeoMX said:**
> Do you think I can create a new user with full crypted home directory? I can add an user and then move my files, I can bear a new user name ;)

Yeah, when you add a new user you can choose to encrypt their home directory.

---

### Post by wacky_sung on 2010-07-24
Personally i do not use / like to use encrypted home drive.

The reasons are 
- it lower down your system performance such as file transfer, 
- not a necessary tool but a good to have, 
- once you have forgotten the password and your data will be 99%     
  irretrievable,
- if i have important documents or credit number i will rather use  
  cryptkeeper and file encryption which given double protection(The 
  best encryption tool is your brain),etc.

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2010-07-24
> **wacky_sung said:**
> Personally i do not use / like to use encrypted home drive.

The reasons are 
- it lower down your system performance such as file transfer, 
- not a necessary tool but a good to have, 
- once you have forgotten the password and your data will be 99%     
  irretrievable,
- if i have important documents or credit number i will rather use  
  cryptkeeper and file encryption which given double protection(The 
  best encryption tool is your brain),etc.

I haven't noticed much of a performance hit since I started using an encrypted home (which I switched to by backing up and reinstalling since that's way easier than "retrofitting" an existing build imo). But it is true that the decision to encrypt or not is going to be highly individualized and based on a number of things (but for the most part will be based on the intersection between the sensitivity of the data and the likelihood of someone else having or "obtaining" physical access to the device).

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2010-07-24
> **wacky_sung said:**
> (The 
  best encryption tool is your brain)

What?  Your brain is the weakest encryption tool there is.

[img]http://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/security.png[/img]

---

### Post by movieman on 2010-07-24
> **OpSecShellshock said:**
> I haven't noticed much of a performance hit since I started using an encrypted home

It's a big hit on my netbook: AFAIR it dropped from about 60MB/s to 11MB/s. But unless you're regularly copying very large files in and out of your home directory that's not a big deal... and a more powerful CPU than an Atom should barely notice the extra overhead. To be honest I don't even notice on the netbook in normal use, I just ran some tests one day.

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2010-07-24
> **movieman said:**
> It's a big hit on my netbook: AFAIR it dropped from about 60MB/s to 11MB/s. But unless you're regularly copying very large files in and out of your home directory that's not a big deal... and a more powerful CPU than an Atom should barely notice the extra overhead. To be honest I don't even notice on the netbook in normal use, I just ran some tests one day.

Oh, I see what you mean. Yeah, my netbook is an older model with a Celeron, and to be honest since I've also got a desktop system I don't really store files locally on the netbook, so I've managed to avoid the encryption issue altogether. I figure that on that system, removable storage is so cheap, so small, and so potentially modular that I don't have to store anything locally--sensitive or not. In the event someone walks off with it, well hey, congratulations--you're the proud owner of a refurbished, under-powered, obsolete laptop with a fantastic OS and a bunch of configuration files (which I love, but which anyone else would quickly grow frustrated with).

---

### Post by GeoMX on 2010-08-07
I have another question, is it possible to share a crypted home partition between two (or more) Ubuntu installations? Let's say I'd like to share a home partition between Karmic and Lucid, would it be possible if I select crypted home partition during install?

---

### Post by GeoMX on 2010-09-01
Nobody? I'd like to know whether something like this is possible, and if so, how to do it ;)

4 partitions:

- Ubuntu Karmic
- Ubuntu Lucid
- /home (crypted)
- swap

Would it be possible to share the crypted /home partition between the two Ubuntu installations?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-09-01
Yes you can share.

Easiest would be to use a unique user name for each install.

If you use the same user name, use the same log in password and it should work. If you break it though, you may have data loss.

---

