---
title: "GRUB security loophole"
date: 2013-09-01
forum: Security
---

### Post by itaibh on 2013-09-01
Hello everyone.
I know this topic has been discussed in length already, but I still want to ask about it once again.
GRUB allows one with physical access to a computer to gain root access without ever being prompted for root password.
I know the "Physical access IS root access" paradigm, but I think it has a flaw. I'll demonstrate it:

One breaks into someone else's home and steals his laptop.
That person (the hacker) now holds the laptop and have all the time in the world to hack into it.
Except, he doesn't need all the time in the world, because he can change the user's password in about 5 minutes and start using his applications.
Now consider an average Joe, who is now using mainly a web browser, and even if he enabled all sophisticated verification features like Google's 2 Phase Verification, he probably marked the 'Don't ask again for this computer' check box, so now the computer is actually unguarded. The person did it because he had an option to, and because he knows that if the laptop is stolen, he can still access his account from another computer, or his phone, and deactivate that computer mail account access remotely.
But - only if he had enough time to figure out that his laptop was stolen! And since, as we know already, currently GRUB allows root access with no password, it takes just a few minutes, so the poor guy's email account is probably compromised by now, along with anything in it - Banking account information, but more importantly **the ability to reset password for just about anything, like PayPal and Google account**. Once the main account password have been changed, the guy who's computer been stolen is pretty much hopeless.

If GRUB would have asked the user for some kind of password (and I would even suggest more severe security methods, like the codes generated by Google's Authenticator - requires one time registration using a QR code and then if you want to gain root access, enter the correct code, in addition to a password) than it would give the guy who's computer have been stolen more time to figure that out and block the accounts.

This is why I think that physical access IS NOT root access in a world where most activity is performed on the cloud.

Itai.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-09-01
You can add a password for grub

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1369019](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1369019)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2013-09-01
You don't seem to add anything new to the previous discussions, so why bring it up?
Grub is set up the way it is for good reasons, and you are free to change it.

---

### Post by Hungry Man on 2013-09-01
And that's why Disk Encryption exists. So that when an attacker has physical access they can't compromise the information. There's nothing Grub can do about this.

---

### Post by itaibh on 2013-09-02
The reason I brought it up again is that the scenario I used in my example actually happened to a couple I know.
I guess their OS is Windows, and it takes a little more time if it is Windows 7 or 8 (about half hour, since you need to go into windows recovery process which is a bit lengthy) but it did happen, and they had to change all password, except they didn't do it fast enough so their mail account was compromised and someone purchased things using their PayPal account. They contacted the police, where they were told it is a knows MO but no one had been caught yet.

I asked a similar question in MS community, but it concerned me more since I am using Ubuntu on two desktop computers at home. The risk of stealing a desktop computer is smaller, but still exists.

I don't wish something like that to happen to anyone, and most of us are quite ignorant about it until it comes too close. Only then we realize that while we think we know what to do, and perhaps some of us have done it already, it would be much better if we just didn't have to worry about things like that.

I for one would very much like to know that if someone steals my computer, it would take him at least several hours to get inside. And/Or, if someone somehow did get inside and changed my password, or tried to run apps from my account while running as root, that all history is automatically deleted, all passwords forgotten, all tabs closed, etc.

With today's risk I really don't think this is too much to ask for...

---

### Post by itaibh on 2013-09-02
About disk encryption - I do encrypt specific folders I want to hide, but that requires extra mounting where I'll be asked for password only when I need them.
I don't know about full disk encryption - can you please link to where I can read more about it?
Another thing about encryption - if the entire disk is encrypted, what can a root user even do? And if the root account have the password (say, for 'sudo' commands), doesn't it cancels the entire point of encryption?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2013-09-02
> **itaibh said:**
> The reason I brought it up again is that the scenario I used in my example actually happened to a couple I know.
I guess their OS is Windows, and it takes a little more time if it is Windows 7 or 8 (about half hour, since you need to go into windows recovery process which is a bit lengthy) but it did happen, and they had to change all password, except they didn't do it fast enough so their mail account was compromised and someone purchased things using their PayPal account. They contacted the police, where they were told it is a knows MO but no one had been caught yet.

I asked a similar question in MS community, but it concerned me more since I am using Ubuntu on two desktop computers at home. The risk of stealing a desktop computer is smaller, but still exists.

I don't wish something like that to happen to anyone, and most of us are quite ignorant about it until it comes too close. Only then we realize that while we think we know what to do, and perhaps some of us have done it already, it would be much better if we just didn't have to worry about things like that.

Setting Grub or root passwords is not the way to protect computers from such scenarious. All it does is provide a false sense of being secure, when, in fact, you are not. There are ways to protect a browser profile, but they aren't related to GRUB. The simplest is to set the Master Password in Firefox.
> 
I for one would very much like to know that if someone steals my computer, it would take him at least several hours to get inside. And/Or, if someone somehow did get inside and changed my password, or tried to run apps from my account while running as root, that all history is automatically deleted, all passwords forgotten, all tabs closed, etc.

With today's risk I really don't think this is too much to ask for...

Anyone with physical access can use a Live CD/USB, boot from it, copy your browser profile, and start using it, without bothering about silly GRUB passwords. It would take about 5 min on a mordern PC.

---

### Post by itaibh on 2013-09-02
Hmm.. you're right. I guess I should ask browser providers to encrypt the data by default somehow to prevent such identity theft.
In such case, copying the browser's data will be useless. However, this will make hackers with physical access go back to the GRUB/Windows loophole where they get into an existing account, so it seems both actions are required.

---

