---
title: "18.04 lohit fonts can't be removed"
date: 2020-03-02
forum: Security
---

### Post by mikeybee on 2020-03-02
I'm very concerned that I cannot remove the Indian fonts installed on my system.  First of all, why are they there?  Secondly, why can't they be removed.  I'm concerned that this may be a security issue.  Is this normal?   Does everyone have lohit font packages permanently installed?   

dpkg -l |grep -i lohit            
rc  fonts-lohit-beng-assamese                   2.91.5-1                                                   all          Lohit TrueType font for Assamese Language
rc  fonts-lohit-beng-bengali                    2.91.5-1                                                   all          Lohit TrueType font for Bengali Language
rc  fonts-lohit-deva                            2.95.4-2                                                   all          Lohit TrueType font for Devanagari script
rc  fonts-lohit-gujr                            2.92.4-2                                                   all          Lohit TrueType font for Gujarati Language
rc  fonts-lohit-guru                            2.91.2-1                                                   all          Lohit TrueType font for Punjabi Language
rc  fonts-lohit-knda                            2.5.4-1                                                    all          Lohit TrueType font for Kannada Language
rc  fonts-lohit-mlym                            2.92.2-1                                                   all          Lohit TrueType font for Malayalam Language
rc  fonts-lohit-orya                            2.91.2-1                                                   all          Lohit TrueType font for Oriya Language
rc  fonts-lohit-taml                            2.91.3-1                                                   all          Lohit TrueType font for Tamil Language
rc  fonts-lohit-taml-classical                  2.5.4-1                                                    all          Lohit Tamil TrueType fonts for Tamil script
rc  fonts-lohit-telu                            2.5.5-1                                                    all          Lohit TrueType font for Telugu Language

I've tried removing these, and they keep coming back.

---

### Post by EuclideanCoffee on 2020-03-02
I have them on my system, and they don't appear to be malicious. Here's its read me: [https://pagure.io/lohit](https://pagure.io/lohit)

Seems quite harmless.

And when I check my locale, I have Indian data. I don't need it, but I guess by default it's there because a lot of users may be from India. Not sure.

How are you trying to remove them? I suppose they are a requirement, and I don't really mind to remove them myself.

You may want to remove them via this method recommended via AskUbuntu.

[URL="https://askubuntu.com/questions/515330/how-do-i-go-about-removing-all-the-language-packs-i-dont-need"]https://askubuntu.com/questions/515330/how-do-i-go-about-removing-all-the-language-packs-i-dont-need

[/URL]Note: I have no reason to believe this is a security issue. And I think you're safe having Indian fonts on your computer unless there's a specific reason to think otherwise.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2020-03-03
They're already removed.
rc in dpkg --list output means the package has been removed, but leftover configuration files are still on the system.
To fully remove them and the configuration files, use apt purge.
A quick one liner to clear out all leftover configuration files still on the system is
```
dpkg -l | awk '/^rc/{print $2}' | xargs sudo apt purge -y
```


The reason they leave the configuration files is because apt's remove command does this.
>  remove
           remove is identical to install except that packages are removed
           instead of installed.[B] Note that removing a package leaves its
           configuration files on the system.[/B] If a plus sign is appended to
           the package name (with no intervening space), the identified
           package will be installed instead of removed.

Note that most graphical programs use the remove command by default.
(I know the software store does this)

But purge removes all files related to the package
> purge
           purge is identical to remove except that packages are removed and
           purged **(any configuration files are deleted too**)

(Note that the synaptic package manager has this function, but I don't use it normally so I cannot remember the exact wording,
but it's something like the Complete Removal of Package option instead of the more simple Remove Package option)

---

### Post by mikeybee on 2020-03-03
They're uninstalled now.  It seems I needed to reboot after uninstalling using the Pop Shop which I installed on Ubuntu.   Thanks you all.

---

