---
title: "Is Apache &quot;It Works&quot; secure, could you leave it like that and be safe"
date: 2009-07-28
forum: Security
---

### Post by MechaMechanism on 2009-07-28
I am playing around with Apache and I always feel like there's some kind of magic one must do to secure Apache.  When you install Apache, it has a default page "It Works".  Is that page secure?  I wouldn't have anything else running just Apache.  How much time would be required to crack the it works page.  Do vulnerabilities come from Apache itself or 3rd party stuff you load up on Apache, say like SQL, PHP etc?  My password is 24 characters of letters and numbers and symbols generated by a high quality pseudo random number generator, does that make a difference or do Apache cracks bypass the password.  It just seems to be much easier to setup Apache than I thought it would be.

I am planning on running Gallery 2 and when it comes out Gallery 3 on Apache.  It would be a real small site with maybe 20 or less visitors a month, mostly family.

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-07-28
Your fine with the "It works" page. Just stay up to date with patches and such.

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-07-28
ypur fine as long as the server only serves plain, static html - the 'it works' page or others. 
as soon as you get apache to do any kind of processing (server side scripts, web applications, ...) it's a different ball game, because then apache will be processing user input, and any oversight in how the program handles unexpected input is a potential security flaw. 

Likewise, if you implement acces control and misunderstand how apache handles those, you might set something that you assume will  keep certain directories private, but doesn't really - that sort of thing. 

So as soon as you do more than serving static html, you better read the manuals, especially if the server is publically accessible. 



That's as far as Apache is concerned. If you run other services alongside it, you'd have to look at those as well, of course.

---

### Post by MechaMechanism on 2009-07-28
Thanks allot.  Puts me at ease.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-07-29
Apache itself if secure, it is the additional things you run you need to watch. php (or other server side scripts) and Apache modules.

---

