---
title: "unknown file types opened by skype"
date: 2020-12-23
forum: Security
---

### Post by xiguus2 on 2020-12-23
Hello Ubuntunians,

I am posting here because it seems to me that having an uncontrolled program opening of its own volition is a security issue, especially when that program is authored by microsoft.

Problem is that when I **select -> enter** or **rightclick -> open** on unknown file types (some at least, maybe not all), skype is launched. 

My understanding is that this occurs because file-type application/octet-stream is actioned by skype as default opener in mimeinfo.cache, and unlisted file-types are interpreted as octet-streams by the desktop manager

Can I change this default to eg a  hexviewer without disabling the desired behaviour, which is that skype runs properly when I intentionally launch it?

I have seen some posts suggesting that the best way to manage skype on linux is to sandbox it, eg:

[rdiez.shoutwiki.com/wiki/Sandboxing_Skype]("https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/43xv5u/how_to_sandbox_potentially_malicious_applications/")
[www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/43xv5u/how_to_sandbox_potentially_malicious_applications/]("https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/43xv5u/how_to_sandbox_potentially_malicious_applications/")
[askubuntu.com/questions/565986/how-to-run-an-application-on-a-sandbox]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/565986/how-to-run-an-application-on-a-sandbox")

Does Ubuntu have a recommendation on this? What is your advice?

Many Thanks and Best Regards,

xiguus

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2020-12-23
Have a look in the content of ***~/.config/mimeapps.list*** in your text editor.
Use Ctrl+F to search for the word ***skype*** and comment out (with # at the start of the line) or delete any lines that you do not want, which should be obvious for some filetypes.

That will stop skype opening unknown filetypes but should not affect the normal use of skype in any way.
I can't help with the use of a hexeditor in place of skype and I'm not sure why you would want that anyway, an unknown filetype can be anything, many of which will not open in a helpful way in a hexeditor.

---

### Post by xiguus2 on 2020-12-23
Hello ajgreeny,

Thanks for your prompt response.

There are no entries for skype in mimeapps.list, so AIUI the behaviour is being triggered by system mimeinfo.cache.

I am thinking a hexeditor because it can open any file and produce an output -- there's something disconcerting about a 'file open' command that stalls on an empty window. Most of the 'unknown file type' examples that sit in my user directories are plain text files, without magic, that are generated by program settings updates or configuration, and that simply have unusual (ie unregistered) file extensions. The particular case that started me here was a webmailbox config report.

My takeaway, at this stage, is to put a line in mimeapps.list to open application/octet-stream files with some useful program, and test to see whether skype still works, which I expect it will.

I am still interested to know whether you have recommendations for running skype in ubuntu, or for monitoring its behavior while active.

MT&BR,

xiguus

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2020-12-24
I do use Skype but so seldom, and always as a planned chat with family members on the opposite side of the world, so for 99% of the time is is not running at all.

When I do use it I never seem to have real problems with it, though occasionally I have to reset the microphone gain level to make myself heard, but that's mainly because I play around with the mic level when recording with Audacity or something else so have to reset levels for Skype.

---

### Post by xiguus2 on 2020-12-25
Hi,

My usage is much the same, scheduled meetings for a specific purpose with a limited contact list. This makes its behaviour more annoying, though, because we just want it to sit there and not do anything unless its told to. 

I can see myself going through all my unregistered file types and finding handlers for them just to keep this thing in its box -- probably not a bad thing in itself.

Regarding the case cited above, I can report that it's probably not a good idea to try to set application/octet-stream files to open with a simple text file reader -- SpaceFM couldn't read my mounted drives thereafter, which is a side-effect I didn't anticipate, and I expect there were others I didn't get to see. I've tried to find a handler for this type but aside from discovering that this is the default type for binary files, and specifically identifies 'unknown binary file', I've had no luck. The actual file in question is a .mobileconfig file generated by my webpage when I created a mailbox. These files are supposed to help with Apple integration, which has nothing to do with us, or with the lead question, so we will leave it there:)

I am thinking the best way to restrict skype's behaviour is to sandbox it. I will look into this more closely and update accordingly.

Thx for your comments,

xiguus

---

