---
title: "New user - firewall questions"
date: 2011-12-19
forum: Security
---

### Post by Bill1986 on 2011-12-19
Hey, not sure if I'm in the right place, but I recently made the switch from windows 7 to Ubuntu 11.10 and I have a few questions:
1) What firewall should I download?
2) Should I download multiple firewalls or no?
3) What other security steps should I take?
4) Is it true I don't have to worry about viruses/malware/spyware anymore? Coming from a life of Windows this is very weird and new to me

---

### Post by Iowan on 2011-12-19
Moved to it's own thread.

---

### Post by MadsRC on 2011-12-20
1: You don't need to install a firewall, as you've already got one (Called IPTables).
You can edit your IPTable rules with UFW, which should also be installed by default.
 
I'd recommend this post by DangerTux: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1871177](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1871177)
 
It is VERY long, but worth reading. 
 
2: No need to have multiple. Correct me if I'm wrong.
 
3: I'd recommend installing AppArmor (Look in the stickies of this forum) and definalty installing NoScript and Better Privavy addons for FireFox (Or NotScript for Chromium).
 
Other than that, dig around this forum and ask away... Lot's of good texts about Security. Could also PM with specific questions.
 
4: Short answer is that no, generally not. Long answer would be that you should always worry about it. Even though a virus rarely affects Linux, it could use you machine to spread to other Windows computers. Like over USB pens and the likes.
 
There are also attacks that can target machines, regardles of OS. A such attack could be a browser hijack. If you install the above applications and addons you should be relatively secure.
 
There's also a wiki page about security, but can't find it. Will post it when I find it.

---

### Post by Ms. Daisy on 2011-12-20
> **MadsRC said:**
> There's also a wiki page about security, but can't find it. Will post it when I find it.
The Wiki is in my signature.  It's written specifically for new users like the OP.

edit: 
> **MadsRC said:**
> Could also PM with specific questions.

It's discouraged to ask questions via PM.  From the [Ubuntu Forums Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy"):14. **Private Messaging:** Asking support questions via private  messages is strongly discouraged. It is unlikely that users will respond  to these requests and it defeats the secondary intent of the forums to  be a resource for people seeking assistance using internet searches and  forum searches.

---

### Post by Bill1986 on 2011-12-22
Sweet very informative, and yeah that post by DangerTux was very helpful, thanks a lot!

---

### Post by armorbear on 2011-12-22
First of all are you working on LAN, WAN or MAN thats more important regarding to that their are different types of firewall available.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-12-24
Do not install multiple firewalls. Since they are all just front-ends to iptables/netfilter, they will both be trying to configure the same underlying setup and will corrupt each others work. Stick with just one. UFW is the recommend one.

You could also just use iptables directly, in which case don't install another firewall at all, or it will fight with your iptables entries.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-24
Use GUFW and just hit ENABLE. lol

or if you want to do iptables follow this guide
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo)

You pretty much want to drop input connections for everything but your loopback

sudo bash

iptables-save > ~/iptables.rules    ( this will save the iptables to your home directory in a file called iptables.rules )

nano ~/iptables.rules

the file should look like this

# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.1 on Sun Apr 23 06:19:53 2006*filter:INPUT ACCEPT [368:102354]:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]:OUTPUT ACCEPT [92952:20764374]-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j DROP

To save the file in 'nano' press CTRL + X then Y to save.

First line is your loopback
2nd line is to allow established connections. So pretty much if you visit a website or download a file it will allow the traffic to input back.
The last line is to drop all that do not match the rules above.

To apply your rules

iptables-restore < ~/iptables.rules

make sure they were applied by typing

iptables-save 

the output of your active tables will appear in terminal and you can review them

---

### Post by medleyindia on 2011-12-25
When you are using Ubuntu 11.10, you should not problem much about security because netfilter is present by default and it is a packet filtering system which provides a complete set of commands to configure/control each incoming/outgoing packet so netfilter provides a extremely flexible and controlling firewall solution.

---

### Post by dirtrider1 on 2011-12-25
Linux has a common firewall called Netfilter which uses a hook system within the kernel for handling network packets. The primary interface for users to manipulate Netfilter is called Iptables it is pretty much a linux standard. Iptables is extremely versatile and powerful but at the price of being somewhat harder to learn for new users. The solution is there are several higher level tools that can manipulate Iptables using a much easier interface to learn with both gui and cli tools that fall into this category. 

Generally I use Iptables for anything server or "enterprise" related as it is extremely flexible and powerful and IMHO can compete with pretty much anything commercial I have seen. In fact Iptables in many cases is what the underlying base of many firewall type devices are using, that or BSD pf. 

Whereas tools like Ufw provide an easier to use interface which keeps it simple when you don't need the extra configuration options like regular desktop use and your computer is not exposed to the entire world and pushing a bunch of services out.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-12-25
Yes, but the default netfilter configuration is to allow all traffic, unfiltered. So netfilter is indeed there, but not doing anything.

To explain the order of things:

Netfilter is the name of the packet filtering module built into the Linux kernel. This is always there in the kernel, and it is the only packet filtering module that exists for Linux as fas as I know. It is comprehensive enough that no other is needed.

iptables is the command-line utility for configuring the netfilter module. It is always there in Linux distros. The commands can be rather cryptic, but if you want to really understand the firewall settings, you should really learn these commands.

There are many "firewall programs" for Linux. All of them are intended to simplify the amount of configuration required to setup your firewall rules. All of them end up making calls to iptables to set the netfilter configuration, often by creating little shell scripts that they then run. 

The recommended Ubuntu firewall programs are **ufw** (command line) and **gufw** (the GUI version). ufw is installed by default, and you enable it with the command **sudo ufw enable**. By default they are not "enabled", so by default all traffic is allowed. With both of them, if you simply "enable" them and nothing more, they will configure iptables/netfilter to block all incoming connections and allow all outgoing connections.

---

