---
title: "iptables"
date: 2010-09-18
forum: Security
---

### Post by jhayes on 2010-09-18
first, i am trying to learn iptables for a class, so i thoulght i would play with the rules on my local 9.10 box since i can iptables -F and such and get instant gratification. currenty it is running webserver, ftp(for local lan) ssh, mediatomb. i was about to pot a question on how to make this all work, but i feel stupid. i started up transmission, and ran "mediatomb" in another shell, and then the 2 web interfaces for those and came up fine. so instead i will post my iptables.rules file and the link where i started
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo)
in the hopes others can learn from me :P

cat /etc/iptables.rules 
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Sat Sep 18 21:34:21 2010
*filter
:INPUT DROP [61:3402]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [6238:1140672]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --sport 1024:65535 --dport 22 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --sport 1024:65535 --dport 80 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -s 192.168.5.0/24 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 9091 -j ACCEPT 
-A OUTPUT -o lo -j ACCEPT 
-A OUTPUT -o eth0 -p tcp -m state --state NEW,RELATED,ESTABLISHED -m multiport --dports 80,443 -j ACCEPT 
COMMIT
# Completed on Sat Sep 18 21:34:21 2010


the default input policy is drop here. the first lien allows the loopback full access. the next line with state related, established allows any traffic in that i sent out, like a response to a web page request etc. the next 2 lines with --dport 22 and 80 allow me to ssh in and pull the webpage from another computer. the next line -s 192.168.5.0 was my 5th try to get local lan ftp going. it essentially allows in any traffic from the local lan. this will allow the viewing of the mediatomb webpage on the local machine. no idea if you can view that from another machine or not, but it should still be viewable from another pc on local lan. the last input line is  for the transmission webthing. thats its defualt port, and yes i have a user-name/password set on it.   

the way the output policy is set, i could probably set the default policy to drop, but have not tested this. the last line is NEEDED for local web surfing.

---

### Post by anomie on 2010-09-20
[QUOTE=jhayes]the way the output policy is set, i could probably set the default policy to drop, but have not tested this. the last line is NEEDED for local web surfing.[/QUOTE]

As is, the OUTPUT rules are redundant, because your OUTPUT policy is ACCEPT. 

If you set the OUTPUT policy to DROP, you're not going to be doing much web surfing. :) You forgot to allow out name lookups (UDP 53) and stateful/established traffic.

---

### Post by wconstantine on 2010-09-20
Just curious. What's the point of specifying source ports?

Also, output rules like that can easily be circumvented by someone that knows what he/she's doing. Just a quick notice.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-09-20
> **wconstantine said:**
> Just curious. What's the point of specifying source ports?

Also, output rules like that can easily be circumvented by someone that knows what he/she's doing. Just a quick notice.

You shouldn't need to specify the source port, only the destination port.

---

### Post by jhayes on 2010-09-20
first "s is, the OUTPUT rules are redundant, because your OUTPUT policy is ACCEPT. " yes this is true for now. but as i learn more i will eventually set the default out put to drop. 

"If you set the OUTPUT policy to DROP, you're not going to be doing much web surfing.  You forgot to allow out name lookups (UDP 53) and stateful/established traffic." this may be why surfing was problematic

"Just curious. What's the point of specifying source ports?" you are probably right, i was following along with several different sites that had it listed like that. i think the only thing it would block is someone coming in on a well known port, which would be uncommon.

"Also, output rules like that can easily be circumvented by someone that knows what he/she's doing. Just a quick notice." someone on the local lan prolly, but not externally.

"You shouldn't need to specify the source port, only the destination port." yes like i said following along, trying to learn etc. but yes this specify the source will not add much.


on a side note, this all is in addition to the similar rules on the wireless router. i "trust" the local lan for now. and i was able to sftp into this machine from the outside today. next step is local lan + samba+ win7.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-09-20
Someone won't connect using one of those "well known ports" since the sending machine picks a random port above 1024 to initiate the connection from. The destination port is what's important, not the source port.

Also: Please use quote tags, it makes it easier to tell who you are quoting. :)

---

