---
title: "16.04 hardening"
date: 2016-10-02
forum: Security
---

### Post by hezy2 on 2016-10-02
Hello,
what is the best way to harden Ubu. 16.04 after enabling UFW and installing AV and defender? I've scanned the system with Nessus. More details will be sent if necessary. Thanks,
Hezy.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2016-10-02
Sandboxing.  Use apparmor or firejail on any applications that connect to the Internet or handle untrusted content.
Don't just gloss over in a '*OK, that's enabled for that, cool, I'm secure now.  Yippee!!!!*' type way - you'd be left with a false sense of security.  Adjust the sandbox to suit your needs and your needs only.

Apparmor should already be installed, firejail is available in the repositories.

Do read about them before use, they are somewhat different types of sandboxes.

> installing AV
Regarding anti-virus/anti-malware software, please read [this]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2337052&p=13546076&viewfull=1#post13546076") for your own safety.

> and defender
What is defender?

---

### Post by kevdog on 2016-10-03
Sandboxing -- although a great concept -- is very hard to accomplish.  Apparmour can be used however its really confusing and frankly a bitch to setup.  Jails are another concept dealing with isolation, however I don't believe this method is quite as robust as AppArmour. You really need to harden your system if you are dealing with servers and listening processes. Do you have anything in mind you are trying to protect against?

---

### Post by juan53 on 2016-10-03
From my perspective, there are a couple of tweaks that you should do as well. First of all enable a non-administrative account for your daily operations, such as browsing the web and download files. Secondly, you should install nmap to check the current state of your porta. By default you have 2 internally opened (53 and the impression port), you can unisntall cups or disable it. Make sure that, at least, your administrative account is locked down with a strong password. And finally, keep the system updated!!

---

### Post by anoda on 2016-10-10
Hello. Besides what is written above you can also try, for example (Please remember to read about it!):

***** keep updating system (pretty obious, but it's important!)
* use strong password: at least 8 characters, such as *1!aA&$*...
***** use AppArmor profiles for applications which are connecting to the network or downloading something (Firefox, Pidgin, Transmission etc.)
***** use sudo(8) to execute command as another user - not *root*
***** use [COLOR=#008000]sysctl.conf[/COLOR] file (with multiple options related to security etc.)
***** use iptables with rules against port scanning, flooding, block many types of bad TCP flags (especially via **-t mangle -A PREROUTING **chain), reject icmp-related packets, block non-routable IP address and many more
***** use ipset in conjunction with iptables to block scan attempts etc., from IP's address
***** edit [COLOR=#008000]/etc/hosts.allow[/COLOR] (to list of hosts that are allowed to access the system), [COLOR=#008000]/etc/hosts.deny[/COLOR] (to list of hosts that are not allowed to access the system) files
***** edit[COLOR=#008000] /etc/security/access.conf[/COLOR] (to disallow console logins to all but a few accounts etc.) and [COLOR=#008000]limits.conf [/COLOR]files
*** **disable unnecessary services (such as - for example - cups, ssh and so on) 
*** **mount some partitions, like */tmp*, */var/tmp *etc., with **nosuid**, **noexec**, **nodev** options (You will have to remount */tmp* without **noexec** flag before system/package updates). Also it'a a good idea to mount */proc* with **hidepid=2 **option via [COLOR=#008000]/etc/fstab[/COLOR] file. If I remember correctly, it should be default in Debian in near future 
***** review system logs regularly ([COLOR=#008000]/var/log/[/COLOR] directory) 

Of course that are not all the things that you need/should to do. There is a super kernel patch called: *grsecurity* which offer a very good protection in many levels, but it need to be compiled with a vanilla kernel. You should also read: [https://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/securing-debian-howto/](https://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/securing-debian-howto/)

---

### Post by trivialpackets on 2016-10-20
I just want to note that an 8 character password probably isn't long enough anymore.  Go with at least 12-14 character at least.  I typically find that if you string together 3 non-related words and a symbol, you are pretty good.  A good practice might be to come up with some sort of a formula for how you generate passwords.  Maybe something like a color, a bird and an adjective with a symbol.  An example password might be: "Lavender Parrot Gigantic@"  A passphrase can work as well, or just a really good more randomized password that you can remember.  Go longer than 8 is all I'm saying.  Other than that, very good post!

---

### Post by Habitual on 2016-10-20
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StricterDefaults](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StricterDefaults)

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-10-21
let GRC scan your computer. If you've got open or responding ports you might want to consider getting a router and sitting behind its firewall.

---

### Post by anoda on 2016-10-22
Hello. According to a step about mounting partitions such as [COLOR=#008000]/tmp[/COLOR] and [COLOR=#008000]/var/tmp[/COLOR] with mentioned flags (of course they must be created/mounted separately): as I mentioned, [COLOR=#008000]/tmp [/COLOR]must remounted before system, packages update etc. I'm doing it this way (of course these steps, can be placed in script to automate whole process):

```
# *first, check /tmp mounting*
[COLOR=#ff0000][$][/COLOR] [COLOR=#008000]mount |grep /tmp[/COLOR]
/dev/sda3 on /tmp type ext4 (rw,noexec)

# *now remount /tmp without `noexec` flag*
[COLOR=#ff0000][$][/COLOR] sudo mount -o remount,exec /tmp

# [I]check /tmp mounting once again
[/I][COLOR=#ff0000][$] [/COLOR][COLOR=#008000]mount |grep /tmp
[/COLOR]/dev/sda3 on /tmp type ext4 (rw)

# *now update package or system*
[COLOR=#ff0000][$] [/COLOR][COLOR=#008000]sudo apt-get update[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]
[$] [/COLOR][COLOR=#008000]sudo apt-get upgrade[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]
[/COLOR]# *NOTE: IF THERE IS A KERNEL UPDATE AVAILABLE, PLEASE RUN*[COLOR=#ff0000]
[$] [/COLOR][COLOR=#008000]sudo apt-get dist-upgrade[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]

[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]# after upgrade process, remount /tmp with `noexec` flag
[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000][$] [/COLOR][COLOR=#008000]sudo mount -o remount /tmp
[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]# and check if everything is okay[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#ff0000][$][/COLOR] [COLOR=#008000]mount |grep /tmp[/COLOR]
/dev/sda3 on /tmp type ext4 (rw,noexec)
```

I wrote it just as an information for users who will mount [COLOR=#008000]/tmp[/COLOR] partition with **noexec** flag. That's all. According to my post with plenty of points related with security, there is also some steps, which users can make: 

*** **edit [COLOR=#008000]/etc/securetty [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]file [/COLOR]and comment out all but tty1 - it remove root's ability to log in from anywhere but the local console
*** **modifying the default umask can be also interesting and a umask 077 value is recommended for security (use [COLOR=#008000]/etc/profile[/COLOR] or [COLOR=#008000]~/.bashrc[/COLOR] file)
*** **edit [COLOR=#008000]/etc/passwd[/COLOR] file [COLOR=#000000]and use **/bin/false** for some users, for example, games, irc and so on, but leave user and root(?)! 
*** **install and run (for example; once per week) rkhunter and chkrootkit programs
***** detect and close      network ports that are not needed  - to get a list of listening      ports use the **netstat **(an example command: [/COLOR][COLOR=#008000]netstat -tulp[/COLOR])
*** **check for SUID/SGID, world-writable, unusual or hidden, orphaned or unowned files (use find(1) utility - internet contains many examples etc.)
***** delete specific accounts e.g. news, games etc. 
***** reducing the number of old commands the [COLOR=#008000].bash_history[/COLOR] file hold (check for HISTFILESIZE and HISTSIZE options)

And so on. I hope, it will help someone. Cheers.

---

### Post by hotuki on 2016-10-22
Hello,

I would add my 2 more cents :

Hardly restrict your browser apparmor profile (r-w only for your download folder, deny all the others, etc)
Change your browser fingerprint (uri leaks, canvas, useragent, platform, buildID and so on)
Harden your browser with wellknown security add-ons (noscript, etc)
Tweak your sysctl.conf to change your TCP/IP OS fingerprint
Use Grsecurity and Pax and name this new kernel like Canonical's last kernel tree's ones (ex: instead 4.7.9-grsec, name it 4.7.9-040709-generic) -> kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/
Update your bios

You can use a VM to confine your Internet activity and check any possibly malicious activity as a honey-pot (you will reach there the "crazy" stage #1)
From time to time, you can download and install the last kernel version from kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/. If you got a high profile rootkit, it should break a lot of things, first of all : your monitoring tools.


Consider security as a no-end way.

---

### Post by mcparty2 on 2016-11-01
Lots of great advice in this thread. Personally I use Lynis.

```
apt-get install lynis
```
then run
```
lynis -c 
```

This will scan your system and will make recommendations on how you can increase the security. It pulls up alsorts and can be a bit of an eye opener. It shouldn't be considered as exhaustive though.

IPtables & fail2ban are a great combo for protection.

---

### Post by alexjpowell on 2016-11-16
It depends on what you're using your machine for
I work for a major undisclosed IT firm that offers enterprise solutions to major Australian corporations

I'm pretty good at web facing servers, especially multi account hosting, but again it depends on what you're using the machine for. 
So let me know what you're using it for

---

