---
title: "12.04 or 13.10"
date: 2014-02-13
forum: Security
---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-02-13
I know 14.04 is around the corner and can't wait but I was dual booting 12.04 and W7 because I do my banking etc and every time I go into Windows I find it slow or not responding driving me nuts can I put 13.10 on only and still download my movies & music and still do my banking with Ubuntu even if I put the firewall on enable or is that to much to ask it would be perfect to say bye bye forever for Windows and just have Ubuntu it just runs so smooth and stable.

So for the stupid question

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-02-13
How large is hard drive?
On my 60GB flash drive, I have two / (root) partitions for two different installs. And several test installs on my large data drive where most of my data is.
So if you have another 20 or 25GB available you can do another install.

---

### Post by fugu2 on 2014-02-13
> **gordie692 said:**
> I know 14.04 is around the corner and can't wait but I was dual booting 12.04 and W7 because I do my banking etc and every time I go into Windows I find it slow or not responding driving me nuts can I put 13.10 on only and still download my movies & music and still do my banking with Ubuntu even if I put the firewall on enable or is that to much to ask it would be perfect to say bye bye forever for Windows and just have Ubuntu it just runs so smooth and stable.

So for the stupid question

There are some video games that will only run in Windows, and Silverlight will only run in Windows (for netflix and such). With only a few other exceptions
Ubuntu/linux can do everything and more then Windows can do. Ubuntu can play movies, music, etc. Firefox on Ubuntu is just like Firefox in Windows, but
from what I've seen, probably a bit faster.

I've been Windows free for 5 Years now and have way less computer headaches! Due to the extensive documentation and online community of the 
Ubuntu/Linux OS, its becomes very easy diagnosing any problem you'll incounter.

---

