---
title: "Regenerating snakeoil SSL certificate"
date: 2008-05-22
forum: Security
---

### Post by davidkahn on 2008-05-22
Either concurent with, or shortly after, upgrading to Hardy, the security system indicated that my ssh keys were generated by a version ssh-keygen that had a broken random number generator and that I had to regenerate them.  I did that and ssh is now fine.

However, when my Evolution e-mail client connects to the internal Dovcot POP3 (SSL) server running on top of Postfix, it gives the message below (in italics).  This is probably because the snakeoil certificate /etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem was generated with the same broken random number generator is is therefore blacklisted.  This raises two questions:

[LIST=1]
[*]How does one regenerate the snakeoil default ssl certificate?
[*]Are there any consequences of regenerating it that will have to be handled?
[/LIST]
The easiest path would be to allow Evolution to accept the certificate.  But who wants a default SSL certificate that doesn't provide security?

My version of Ubuntu is: 
[INDENT]Linux CERTIBY1 2.6.24-16-generic #1 SMP Thu Apr 10 12:47:45 UTC 2008 x86_64 GNU/Linux
[/INDENT]Thanks for any help.
David
[INDENT][I]SSL Certificate check for certiby1:

Issuer:            E=root@CERTIBY1.LAHILLS.CERTIBY.COM,CN=CERTIBY1.LAHILLS.CERTIBY.COM,OU=Office for Complication of Otherwise Simple Affairs,O=OCOSA,L=Everywhere,ST=There is no such thing outside US,C=XX
Subject:           E=root@CERTIBY1.LAHILLS.CERTIBY.COM,CN=CERTIBY1.LAHILLS.CERTIBY.COM,OU=Office for Complication of Otherwise Simple Affairs,O=OCOSA,L=Everywhere,ST=There is no such thing outside US,C=XX
Fingerprint:       a3:e2:b7:8b:c6:cb:9e:86:3e:5e:c2:0b:85:bf:4d:44
Signature:         BAD
[/I][/INDENT]

---

### Post by davidkahn on 2008-05-22
I have been digging into this more -- going through the security notices.
[INDENT][http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-612-8](http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-612-8)
[http://www.ubuntu.com/taxonomy/term/1+2/0](http://www.ubuntu.com/taxonomy/term/1+2/0)
[/INDENT] and learned that you can test for blacklisted certificates using openssl-vulnkey.  It validated that _my snakeoil certificates are not blacklisted_ (see below).  Now I don't know what the problem is.  Does anyone have ideas?

Thanks.

David

[INDENT][I]david@CERTIBY1:~$  openssl-vulnkey /etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem
Not blacklisted: 0ff365d9ac59f2ac2a7bfdb7bd3c6e71b97014f1 /etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem
david@CERTIBY1:~$ sudo openssl-vulnkey /etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key
Not blacklisted: 0ff365d9ac59f2ac2a7bfdb7bd3c6e71b97014f1 /etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key
[/I][/INDENT]

---

### Post by stiv2k on 2008-05-25
If you ever find out how to do this, drop me a pm... I am also trying to figure it out.

---

### Post by davidkahn on 2008-05-25
I suggest that you just subscribe to this thread so that you automatically get informed when I, or someone else, solves it.

---

### Post by mihallica on 2008-06-08
Since during installation process my system's time was incorrect (year 2002) where was errors like "your sertificate is expired" after. So I needed to regenerate them
I managed to regenerate default snakeoil certificate with folowing command:
sudo make-ssl-cert generate-default-snakeoil --force-overwrite
and errors gone

Hope that will help

---

### Post by davidkahn on 2008-06-08
That worked perfectly.  Thanks!

---

