---
title: "Can't access encrypted home directory on separate partition"
date: 2009-12-11
forum: Security
---

### Post by jon_liverpool on 2009-12-11
Hello,

I have tried - and failed - to mount an encrypted home directory that exists on a separate partition on my hard disk.

The home directory was originally encrypted via the ubuntu install process.

My system failed to boot after an update (it was an alpha 9.10 release).

I have left the affected partition and installation well alone and have re-installed ubuntu to a new partition in an attempt to rescue the said home directory.

Everything on the partition is still intact, including the ecryptfs configuration information in the '.ecryptfs' directory.

I did not follow ubuntu's recommendation, on first boot, to do the following:

> Record your encryption passphrase

To encrypt your home directory or "Private" folder, a strong passphrase has been autogenerated. Usually your directory is unlocked with your user password, but if you ever need to manually recover this directory, you will need this passphrase. Please print or write it down and store it in a safe location.

You can run the "ecryptfs-unwrap-passphrase" command now to do this. Enter your user password at the "Passphrase" prompt.

I am hoping I can still access the data! (I usually back-up, but this was temporary and just so happens that there are a few encrypted files I really need.)

I have tried to follow HOW-TOs but get stuck half way through.

Could anyone help me access the data?

Thank you for your help!!

Jon

---

