---
title: "8.04 attempting to install dazuko to use avg"
date: 2008-12-02
forum: Security
---

### Post by guiliker on 2008-12-02
hey call me dumb or still using windows ideas but i attempted to follow the guide at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DazukoTroubleshooting]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DazukoTroubleshooting") to install Dazuko to use the on-access scanner with avg for linux (freebie version) 

i dual boot with win xp as well as having wine and most of the other computers on the LAN i'm connected to are windows with users that click on anything while browsing t'interweb also my knowledge of 'nix is still feeble so yeah following the how to i became stuck at the command ```
sudo dpkg -i linux-headers*2.6.25*.tar.bz2 
``` apparently the file does not exist and yeah it doesn't so have i made some kind of noob mistake?

i've got the following:
ubuntu 8.04
kernel 2.6.24-22-generic
gnome 2.22.3
and i'd downloaded the suggested kernal in the link

i'd also got the suggested linked dazuko patch too - not that i'd had chance to do anything with that!

i obviously know nothing about compiling kernals so any advice would be great - yes i have read the stickies but alas most of that goes over my head as i'm not used to "active" security ('cept for being very careful of what to click on t'interweb and already using noclick and adblock+) rather the type of security where you get a gui click on a few options and leave it to get on with its business

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-12-02
I think the documentation is wrong, dpkg only works with .deb.  I would try to find th author of that doc and see if you can get some clarification. It would be a good idea to submit a bug report here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/](https://bugs.launchpad.net/)

What is it that you are trying to do, you shouldn't need an anti-virus program, and if you are trying to protect the other users on the network, they should be able to look after themselves if they have their computers setup properly. A little bit of education would go a lot further then trying to protect users from themselves.

Jim

---

### Post by guiliker on 2008-12-03
hey thanks for the response. I have just realised that I can contact the author direct which is what I've done. 

I'm not worried about the other users - I'm worried about what they will do to *MY* windows partition! Education only works if people are prepared to learn. These windows users are the type that get confused opening a laptop let alone actually switching one on and think manual programme updates are very technical! For instance one of them was talking about getting a new machine because it was running really slowly - one quick look at the process list and it was no wonder they had over 300 processes running whilst idle - i've found the bare minimum is 19! looking at there internet browser they had downloaded 12 different toolbars so half the screen was toolbars that they didn't even use! /rant over

I have just found prior to Hardy when using 'nix it is useful to have an anti-virus as I have had some stuff creep in from the 'nix partition to the windows partition. I would do away with windows altogether if there were not certain projects that I have to use it for as they are based on windows apps/environment grrrr.

---

