---
title: "F.Y.I. Truecrypt compromised/closed down"
date: 2014-05-28
forum: Security
---

### Post by solitaire on 2014-05-28
Just a heads up.

Looks like something funny has went down behind the scenes of TrueCrypt.org today.

Their website redirects to their [sourceforge]("http://truecrypt.sourceforge.net/") page. Claiming Truecrypt has shut-down development and urging uses to use BitLocker instead.

All previous versions of the binary and source code have been removed. The latest binary 2.7 (uploaded today) seems to be compromised. Reports are saying Windows flags a few malware components when you install the "new" version and it seems to only DECRYPT (the "Encryption" routines have been removed.)

[strike]New signing keys were also issued today.[/strike] Unsure if new keys were issued or the old keys were re-uploaded situation is still a bit foggy/fluid

Not sure if this was a hack or some legal manoeuvre to get around a National Security Letter or other "gag order". 

But if you use Truecrypt keep to the older stable 7.1a

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-05-28
There is much speculation at the moment about this and so far no word from the devs. I think it's a bit premature for a panic attack, but it's good to know something is going on.

---

### Post by open2reason on 2014-05-29
> **CharlesA said:**
> There is much speculation at the moment about this and so far no word from the devs. I think it's a bit premature for a panic attack, but it's good to know something is going on.

Sage advice.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2014-05-29
Supposedly the developers are super-secretive and don't come out publicly if they don't have to so getting a confirmation of some sort may be difficult (if they are still alive.... ;) *conspiracy theory!* )

Seriously, though, is there a compariable product that woks with Linux? LUKS?

---

### Post by Chayak on 2014-05-29
I would suspect that there's a high probability that the site change is legit.  They key fingerprint used to sign the 7.2 executable is the same one used for previous releases.  It's not impossible that they were compromised, but it's more likely that they've decided to back away from the project for some reason.

---

### Post by Habitual on 2014-05-29
> **CharlesA said:**
> There is much speculation ...I think it's a bit premature for a panic attack

Yeah, we just had "one of those" (heartbleed).

Peeps LOVE to speculate too. :(
FUD everywhere.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-05-30
Brian Krebs (reputable security journalist) article. [https://krebsonsecurity.com/2014/05/true-goodbye-using-truecrypt-is-not-secure/](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2014/05/true-goodbye-using-truecrypt-is-not-secure/)

If the TC team got a NSL, we will probably never know what really happened. 
Could be that they were just struggling to support Win8 with GPT, but didn't have the expertise needed. If this is the case, I think we'll hear more.

I know that many people would still love to use TC on other partitions and for file-based volumes even if the boot issue cannot be resolved. I would.

---

### Post by SedaliaSteve on 2014-05-30
I'm with Mr. Dragonbite. I have some Truecrypt volumes and would like to migrate to something that makes me feel safe. All of my computers have Truecrypt volumes that don't automount. I bring them up and down as I need to store/retrieve info. Heck, I'd even pay for something reasonably easy to use and powerfully encrypted. I've been hacked this year and no important personal info sits on my computers outside these volumes. If they're compromised I'm so screwed. I'll be watching this forum as this little soap opera plays out.

Steve

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2014-05-30
I don't know if any of the other encryption solutions can perform this, but one use of TrueCrypt I have heard about from people is to store files that are copied/stored/synchronized with a cloud provider so that the provider (and others) cannot get in to see the files.

Encrypting your local disks, such as your /home directory or even full-disk encryption won't protect your files if they are stored in a synchronization directory (like Dropbox) if I understand things correctly.

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-05-30
> **Chayak said:**
> I would suspect that there's a high probability that the site change is legit.  They key fingerprint used to sign the 7.2 executable is the same one used for previous releases.  It's not impossible that they were compromised, but it's more likely that they've decided to back away from the project for some reason.
Damn I wish I would have quoted you before you made the edit 

;)

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2014-05-30
Interesting... some people are trying to resurrect it already!

[http://truecrypt.ch/]("http://truecrypt.ch/")

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2014-05-30
This is a bit hopeful and indicates there may be no reason to stop using Truecrypt despite dire warnings from the devs[https://www.grc.com/misc/truecrypt/truecrypt.htm]("https://www.grc.com/misc/truecrypt/truecrypt.htm")

---

### Post by Chayak on 2014-05-30
> **bashiergui said:**
> Damn I wish I would have quoted you before you made the edit 

;)

The part where I mention that I'm a former spook and the developers may have discovered that they were compromised?  Yeah, changed that when I saw the developers responded and just basically quit.

To those not familiar with the term spook.  I worked in intelligence.  I was a [US Navy CTN]("http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/enlisted/community/crypto_it/Pages/CTN.aspx") assigned to US Cybercommand.  I was a geek before I joined but the training I went though put me on a whole different level.  One that continues to earn me much more money in the civilian world.

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-06-01
> **Chayak said:**
> The part where I mention that I'm a former spook and the developers may have discovered that they were compromised?  Yeah, changed that when I saw the developers responded and just basically quit.
Do you mean the [letter Steve Gibson]("http://steve.grc.com/2014/05/29/an-imagined-letter-from-the-truecrypt-developers/") received from the anonymous TrueCrypt developers? That gets a "not very" on my credibility scale. Of all the experts they would reach out to, he would NOT be in my top 1000.

---

### Post by Chayak on 2014-06-01
> **bashiergui said:**
> Do you mean the [letter Steve Gibson]("http://steve.grc.com/2014/05/29/an-imagined-letter-from-the-truecrypt-developers/") received from the anonymous TrueCrypt developers? That gets a "not very" on my credibility scale. Of all the experts they would reach out to, he would NOT be in my top 1000.

Well now the story is that it's a warrant canary because of some of the phrases used.  There's so much misinformation and FUD that it's difficult to get to the truth of the matter.  I'll go back to the theory of a discovered compromise or some kind of legal pressure to compromise the next version.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2014-06-08
This is an interesting thread, and thank you to everyone who has contributed.

My concern is, if TrueCrypt is not continued, what do we use next? (I do not have anything that needs to be secure from government, so that side doesn't concern me, but the data that I hold must be kept safe &#8212; bank account details, personal client information, etc.)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-08
Bank accounts and that sort of data should be held inside a password manager already. If you are really paranoid, keep the data file on an external flash drive (be certain to have 4+ backups) that are safely secured on non-networked devices.
Trusted [password managers aren't just for passwords]("http://blog.jdpfu.com/2011/03/25/101-uses-for-a-password-manager").

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2014-06-08
> **TheFu said:**
> … If you are really paranoid…
No, I'm not paranoid. I don't have any government secrets; just a need to keep confidential items confidential. TrueCrypt is by far the easiest method to use that I've discovered, which is the primary reason why I use it. I'll have a look at the link that you gave me; for password managers, what I really want is something that is fully cross-platform (specifically Ubuntu and Android), and doesn't cost much. Lastpass looks good, something to consider.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-08
KeePassX uses v1 KeePass DBs. This works with Windows, Linux and Android programs that also support v1 DBs. v2 compatibility adds features, but also "bloat" for some definition of that, which I'd like to avoid.

These days I only know 3 passwords. All others are inside my KeePassX DB.

Lastpass seems like a reputable company and has behaved well, however, they still have your data, even if it is encrypted.  Ease of use can override other decisions for many people.  I'd say if KeePassX is too hard for you, then (and only then), use lastpass.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2014-06-08
Thanks for the info about KeePass's database.

I was looking at [KeePassX]("http://www.keepassx.org/"), but now I see that there is also [KeePass]("http://keepass.info/"). They're both open-source, and KeePass seems easier to use for the layperson, perhaps because KeePassX is still in its early stages from what I can see. EDIT: I think that KeePassX is no longer maintained.
 
I'll have a good look to see if it fits my criteria. It doesn't look as though it supports autofill, which both [LastPass]("https://lastpass.com/") and KeePassX do. Keeping KeePass's database synchronised needs DropBox or equivalent, I see.

I found a good [summary of the differences]("http://gizmodo.com/lastpass-vs-keepass-whats-the-best-online-password-m-1452918307") between the two.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-06-08
I use KeePass and it does so autofill, but you have to hit a key combo to do it.

It looks like KeePassX has an alpha out for a new version, at least according to their news:
[http://www.keepassx.org/news/2014/04/433](http://www.keepassx.org/news/2014/04/433)

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2014-06-08
Thanks. I'm busy installing KeyPass as I write.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-08
> **Paddy Landau said:**
> Thanks. I'm busy installing KeyPass as I write.

KeePassX does autocomplete ... with a chord entry too.  I prefer to avoid mono and .NET which is the main reason I wanted KeePassX over plain KeePass.  I like simple tools that work.

Oh ... and I suppose using box or OwnCloud is an option, but simple nightly rsync's are more than enough to mirror the DB to every device for me.

---

### Post by open2reason on 2014-06-08
Bruce Schneier also has an offering [https://www.schneier.com/passsafe.html](https://www.schneier.com/passsafe.html), [http://passwordsafe.sourceforge.net/](http://passwordsafe.sourceforge.net/) & [http://sourceforge.net/projects/passwordsafe/files/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/passwordsafe/files/) and like those already mentioned shows signs some development undertaken but a few months ago. 

With so many combinations of the words key pass password, sourceforge & safe just who should a user trust?

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-06-09
> **open2reason said:**
> With so many combinations of the words key pass password, sourceforge & safe just who should a user trust?Good question. Trust is the essence of a lot of security issues. There's no good answer. I tend to do some research when looking for a new product. I google for reviews from known publications. I ask people I trust for their opinions. I read the documentation on some of my choices and nix any that seem cagey.

I would say that when it comes to crypto, most of the world trusts Bruce Scheier.

---

### Post by open2reason on 2014-06-09
I also trust Bruce Scheier and find that his site attracts a good proportion of contributors who seem to know what they are talking about.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2014-06-09
> **TheFu said:**
> KeePassX does autocomplete ... with a chord entry too.  I prefer to avoid mono and .NET which is the main reason I wanted KeePassX over plain KeePass.  I like simple tools that work.

Oh ... and I suppose using box or OwnCloud is an option, but simple nightly rsync's are more than enough to mirror the DB to every device for me.

For security you could use [SpiderOak]("https://spideroak.com/zero-knowledge/"), where they state right out that they do not have access to your files. Theoretically, if they don't have access to your files, then government branches don't either! ;)  The encryption happens on your end and not in-transit or where it can be intercepted.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2014-06-09
> **Dragonbite said:**
> For security you could use [SpiderOak]("https://spideroak.com/zero-knowledge/")…
I have been a paying customer of SpiderOak for years. It's a perfect solution for security backups across multiple cross-platform computers, but it has a completely different function from that of TrueCrypt.

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2014-06-09
> **Paddy Landau said:**
> I have been a paying customer of SpiderOak for years. It's a perfect solution for security backups across multiple cross-platform computers, but it has a completely different function from that of TrueCrypt.

Doesn't Ubuntu offer the option to encrypt the /home directory?  It may not be the best method but it is better (and seamless) than others.

I once had Fedora and full-drive encryption (except the /boot partition ;)) but it became a pain to have to put in the password/pass-phrase for the encryption and then again to log in.

So if it sits on your computer in an encrypted /home drive and you synchronize it with SpiderOak (or the like) so it is encrypted before it is uploaded, would that be enough?

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2014-06-09
> **Dragonbite said:**
> Doesn't Ubuntu offer the option to encrypt the /home directory?
Yes; it's called ecryptfs, and I indeed use that. But I need to encrypt my local backups, which for obvious reasons are not stored on the home folder.

---

### Post by open2reason on 2014-06-21
Some thoughts  via arstechnica > One of the developers of the TrueCrypt encryption program said it's  unlikely that fans will receive permission to start an independent  "fork" that borrows from the current source code, a refusal that further  clouds the future of the highly regarded application.[http://arstechnica.com/security/2014/06/following-truecrypts-bombshell-advisory-developer-says-fork-is-impossible/](http://arstechnica.com/security/2014/06/following-truecrypts-bombshell-advisory-developer-says-fork-is-impossible/)

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2014-06-22
I have compiled/ installed zulucrypt and I am thinking of using LUKs with it (Zulucrypt is the GUI and can be used with LUKs , Truecrypt and PLAIN encryption). I am surprised how little info there has been on these forums about alternatives to Truecrypt. I guess there is not much out there for Linux that isn't command line

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-23
*subscribed*

---

### Post by beelzebufo on 2014-06-27
this may have already been covered, but I couldn't find it.  I just discovered that truecrypt is no longer an active project (thanks microsoft.. so sick of those guys)  is there a decent alternative? (hopefully the exact same thing but with LTS)  Any suggestions are greatly appreciated, I always like to hear what you guys have to say before I make a switch.

Thanks
Beelzebufo

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-27
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2226748](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2226748)

PS - For once Microsoft has nothing to do with it... For future reference, one of the best ways to LOSE an argument is by overstating it.

---

### Post by beelzebufo on 2014-06-27
looks like I win then.  [http://truecrypt.sourceforge.net/](http://truecrypt.sourceforge.net/)  That's from the truecrypt sourceforge page.  "[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman]The development of TrueCrypt was ended in 5/2014 after Microsoft terminated support of Windows XP." [/FONT][/COLOR]
While Windows may not have directly halted the project, this is the main stated reason for it to not continue.


P.S. the best way to lose an argument is to believe you have won when you have not, citing bad, old, unofficial information.  Another great way to lose an argument is to spell "lose" wrong.  Also, you are upset about a single sentence in parenthesis.

apologies to all the rest of you.

Can anyone give me a reasonable replacement for truecrypt?

---

### Post by uRock on 2014-06-27
Are you looking for something that will work with ubuntu only or are you looking for something you can mount with Windows and/or Linux? 

For Linux only, I'd recommend reinstalling ubuntu and encrypting /home or the full system. 

There are methods for encrypting /home without reinstalling, but I haven't tried that yet. You can also create a Private folder by following the instructions [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedPrivateDirectory").

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-27
Oh, please forgive my spelling. No doubt the additional "o" is an 'unforgivable sin' even for a non-native.

A few comments:
> the best way to lose an argument is to believe you have won when you have not, citing bad, old, unofficial information.
My original post-scriptum is a direct quote from Eugenie Scott ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eugenie_Scott](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eugenie_Scott)) therefore you're disagreeing with her, not me.
This isn't a pissing contest anyway.

> you are upset about a single sentence in parenthesis
I beg your pardon? Why would I be upset? As a matter of fact I loved it :p. However I felt the need - and I still do - to correct that detail and only because of the "best way" I mentioned before. More of that later...
OTOH, you definitely are upset and let me tell that such knee-jerk reaction to an innocent comment is uncalled for and ultimately disproportionated. 

> Another great way to lose an argument is to spell "lose" wrong.
<snip>


Now, the point in contention:
First and foremost, overstating Microsoft's culpability does no good for Linux, Ubuntu or FOSS. That's the only reason for correction. Particularly in this case such overstatements are ridiculous:
You CAN blame Microsoft for ending the support for XP; you CAN'T blame Microsoft for unrelated third-parties decisions regarding their own products. Plus, you left out the most important part of their reasoning which is the sentence after the one you quoted. Here's the complete idea they're - the developers - trying to convey: > *The development of TrueCrypt was ended in 5/2014 after Microsoft terminated support of Windows XP. **Windows 8/7/Vista and later offer integrated support for encrypted disks and virtual disk images. Such integrated support is also available on other platforms***
So, the point they're trying to make is just XP is EoL and all the newer and still supported Windows versions natively have a solution as good as or better than the one offered by TC -and- the same for other platforms. Not surprisingly, none of the 33 posts (including mine) in the main thread I posted before even comes close to blame Microsoft.

About that...
> Can anyone give me a reasonable replacement for truecrypt?
I already posted the thread where it is being discussed. You haven't posted there. Why do you feel the need to have a duplicated thread? In the "absolute beginners", no less...
In my opinion this one should be closed. I'll consult with the Mods.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-06-27
Merged two similar threads.

Please keep this thread on topic, and don't bring personalities into the conversation.

---

### Post by beelzebufo on 2014-06-28
Vladlenin5000  apologies, I must have misunderstood you, sometimes, it's hard to ascertain the real meaning behind these posts and I assume every post is a troll..

and urock, I am looking for something that works with linux, I loved truecrypt, I swear there were almost tears when i found out the project was done.   I have encrypted my home install along with the machine in general.  I would recommend encrypting any time it asks if you want to.   (the next time you do a full install)  Thank  you for the responses, I still need to find a good alternative though... not that I really NEED to encrypt things..
 
Also, it looks like you merged two NOT similar threads, if it linked me to the right one, then one of the threads is gossip about truecrypt and mine is a question about an alternative.. but as I have demonstrated, I am not great at figuring out that real meaning behind some of these threads and you are probably right lol.

anyway, this thread has turned into a mess, but I would really like to find the "new" trucrypt.

---

### Post by uRock on 2014-06-28
The following link states that it is alright to keep using Truecrypt 7.1, which I had planned to do anyway.

[http://www.pcadvisor.co.uk/features/security/3527697/why-truecrypt-71a-is-still-safe-use/](http://www.pcadvisor.co.uk/features/security/3527697/why-truecrypt-71a-is-still-safe-use/)

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-06-28
> **uRock said:**
> The following link states that it is alright to keep using Truecrypt 7.1, which I had planned to do anyway.

[http://www.pcadvisor.co.uk/features/security/3527697/why-truecrypt-71a-is-still-safe-use/](http://www.pcadvisor.co.uk/features/security/3527697/why-truecrypt-71a-is-still-safe-use/)

I agree.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-06-28
If you really want to use Truecrypt, why not just use the last version that was released before they removed the portion that does the encryption. Many people have said it is fine.

*shrugs*

---

### Post by wrzomar on 2014-06-29
For an alternative to truecrypt there is (or was - for windows) LUKS using cryptsetup (on any Linux distribution) and FreeOTFE on Windows. But home page of FreeOTFE is in possession of someone else, on sourceforge there is no files of FreeOTFE or even FreeOTFE Explorer (it can mount only .vol files but doesn't need administrative privileges), it's even disappeared from portableapps.com (but I'm not certain if this program was officially available on portableapps.com). To install FreeOTFE on 64-bit versions of Windows 7 you need to run 'bcdedit.exe /set TESTSIGNING ON' and reboot because FreeOTFE uses unsigned drivers. Does any of you know what happened to FreeOTFE? It appears that someone (read Not Such Agency;) ) doesn't want us to move data on encrypted drives between different operating systems.

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2014-07-01
Anyone try zulucrypt?[https://code.google.com/p/zulucrypt/]("https://code.google.com/p/zulucrypt/")

---

