---
title: "eCryptfs eating up double disk space"
date: 2010-08-24
forum: Security
---

### Post by unimatrix on 2010-08-24
I'm getting "Low Disk Space" warnings in Ubuntu 10.04, because of eCryptfs, which somehow manages to eat up twice as much disk space as an unencrypted partition normally would.

[IMG]http://img28.imageshack.us/img28/2050/screenshot1qe.png[/IMG]

When I click "Examine" this is the picture that I see:

[IMG]http://img69.imageshack.us/img69/4210/screenshotyd.png[/IMG]
[SIZE="1"](the blurred out part is my username of course)[/SIZE]

Why is this happening?
And most importantly, what can I do about it?
Does Ubuntu expect me to buy twice as much disk space just to encrypt it?!

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-08-24
I've been using ecryptfs as an encrypted home for quite a while now. It definately doesn't use double the space. Could it be that you copied files into the encrypted space and left copies of the originals behind? That would account for double as it doesn't remove the originals by itself if you copy them into the encrypted space.

I checked on my system using Disk Usage Analyzer and I don't get the same values as you. My /home/.ecryptfs is different than my /home/username. The files that show up in /home/username exist as encrypted names in /home/.ecryptfs/username/.Private but they don't take any extra space (well approx no difference, I'm not sure if they take a wee bit more or less). There is some kind of "link" managed by ecryptfs.

The only way I could see you using double space if you accidently had two copies still - one encrypted and one not-encrypted.

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2010-08-25
I did not copy anything, since I have no idea how to set it up. All I did was tell it to encrypt my /home partition **during installation**.

And like you've said: "The files that show up in /home/username exist as encrypted names in /home/.ecryptfs/username/.Private" it is the same in my case, only the files take up exactly the same as the original ones apparently.

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2010-08-26
So, what if I just deleted the /home/.ecryptfs folder ?
Would I still be able to boot back?

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-08-26
That doesn't sound like a good idea to me. All your encrypted files are stored in /home/.ecryptfs/username. So deleting /home/.ecryptfs would wipe out all your files.

I don't know what you've got happening there. I think I would boot into recovery mode as root and have a look at what is actually there. In that case the encrypted home will not be mounted and so you should see only the encrypted files in /home/.ecryptfs/username/.Private. If the other /home/username files also exist then it means something is misconfigured and you have two copies.

Also, the **df -h** command will give you a summary of actual disk usage that I think is more reliable than what Disk Usage Analyzer (DUA) probably says. I know from my experience that DUA does report some things twice in some cases. In that case it may be that ecryptfs is working fine but your disk full msg is related to some other issue.

Also a useful command for discovering where disk space is used is simply,

**sudo du -h --max-depth=1 /** or
**sudo du -h --max-depth=1 /home**

---

### Post by ebaychuck on 2010-08-31
I noticed the same thing on mine. I selected it during installation because I'm booting from a portable drive... With only 8gb every bit matters.

Just found this:


> **cefn said:**
> I could be wrong about this, but I think the information you gathered from Disk Usage Analyser is misleading and you didn't save yourself any significant storage by removing encryption. 

The /home/.ecryptfs folder is where your data is actually stored. You would expect this to be the same size (at least) as the data found in any encrypted home folder, with a minor overhead. Mine is just 2% bigger than the data it stores.

Your home folder (e.g. /home/cefn/ is dynamically generated by a process which decrypts the data from the .ecryptfs folder. You would expect this to appear to be the same size, less the overhead. /home/cefn is not a real filesystem.

What I suspect is the case is that your home folder contains 11 GB of actual data. You're seeing this in the .ecryptfs folder because that's where it's really stored.

The fact that the /home/cefn folder is virtual (and hence doesn't represent extra disk usage) is brought home by the fact that Disk Usage Analyser reports I'm storing 97.9 GB on a partition which the GParted utility reports is only 58GB in size! 

Check your own Disk Usage and GParted numbers before risking a complex decryption process for no gain.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-08-31
Could you post the output of:

```
df -h
```

I seem to recall there was a bug in the disk usage analyzer in some versions that seem to read disk usage wrong.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2010-08-31
I think there's some confusion here. Ecryptfs is a virtual file system. Disk usage analyzer sees files in /home/.ecryptfs and /home/$USER and adds them making it appear twice as much disk space is being used. However, there is only 1 set of your files which are in /home/.ecryptfs/$USER. When your encrypted home is mounted it appears that there is twice as much space being used. df -h may help display how this works as it will show that your encrypted home is appearing as a separate mount.

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2010-08-31
Oh gosh darn you were right...

```

Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda7             4.9G  4.4G  222M  96% /home
/home/******/.Private
                      4.9G  4.4G  222M  96% /home/******

```

I was absolutely sure I had at least 10gigs in my /home partition :D
Looks like it was only 5G after all.

Well, I'm glad we solved the mystery. Still, the disk analyzer remains an issue. There ought to be something done about it not to display double usage and thus cause further confusion among users.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-09-01
I don't have an encrypted home directory, but the Disk Usage Analyzer works the way it should. I'm running Maverick Alpha 3.

---

### Post by lamadredelsapo on 2010-09-27
I'm having the same problem but I don't understand the output of df -h

```
fernando@fernando-desktop:~$ df -h
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sdb1             448G  319G  107G  75% /
none                  1.9G  260K  1.9G   1% /dev
none                  1.9G  284K  1.9G   1% /dev/shm
none                  1.9G   84K  1.9G   1% /var/run
none                  1.9G     0  1.9G   0% /var/lock
none                  1.9G     0  1.9G   0% /lib/init/rw
/home/fernando/.Private
                      448G  319G  107G  75% /home/fernando
```

Some help please!

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-09-28
There doesn't appear to be any problem with that output. Your main drive is 75% full.

The other lines there you can ignore. They are just virtual system mounts. Your encrypted home shows up as /home/fernando/.Private - but you can just ignore that too, as it's just another "virtual" mount off your root /dev/sdb1 filesystem.

---

### Post by lamadredelsapo on 2010-09-28
The real problem is that DUA says my home folder accounts for 378GB instead of 318GB. My home folder has two folders within it .ecryptfs accounting for 189GB and my user folder eating up 189GB, i'm quite lost...

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-09-29
DUA = Disk Usage Analyzer?

It's wrong. There's a bug where it counts twice the encrypted home because it doesn't have the smarts to know it's a wrapped (virtual) filesystem. I don't know when / if they'll fix it but you can ignore that it says you're using double space. 

df -h is correct.

DUA doesn't do that on my system and I've no idea why. I'm using 2.30.0 on Lucid.

---

### Post by lamadredelsapo on 2010-09-29
Yes I meant Disk Usage Analyzer. The command df -h was right, apparently I had a copy of my home folder in another place, after deleting it I freed 189GB... Although as you said DUA has a bug.

---

### Post by fadumpt on 2011-02-03
Definitely don't delete anything in .encryptfs/.private

I received the message saying it had like 200MB of space left and saw in the Disk usage analyzer that .encryptfs was the same size as my user folder.

I figured this was a serious issue if I was almost out of space and could not find any applications to turn it off.

Deleting the .encryptfs folder deleted all the data on the system as well.

If there is a bug in Disk Usage Analyzer, then it needs to be addressed soon.  What it shows is extremely misleading.

From what I've seen from Google searching for a fix, Ubuntu put Disk Encryption out a little too soon for it's own good.
They should have given us more outright knowledge about everything about it.

</two cents>

---

### Post by sfabel on 2011-04-10
This is not reported twice for me, df is showing hd is full, but it's definitively NOT.

I tried **moving** the files to another folder outside of the encryption, but that just ate up space and now I am at 100%. As I am writing this, I am copying the files that I managed to get out of my *&^%$ encrypted home dir to an external usb drive, then I'll boot back into Ubuntu to try to get the rest out of my home dir.

The system worked fine until it hit about 2GB left, and no matter what I did, it seemed intent on  filling up hard disk space. I also selected "encrypt home dir" during install.

Stephan

---

### Post by LordDelta on 2011-08-22
There does seem to be something questionable going on with eCryptfs at least for me.

Suffering these same sorts of issues, I know I recently freed up 40 Gig of space, and now I'm back to like 5 Gig, I know I'm not using up space THAT quickly. I'm used to functioning on 5 Gig or less, so where all this space has landed up I'm not quite sure.

My DUA shows my encrypted folder at being 200~ Gig, and my home folder at about 60 Gig...Of course there's still the bug where it adds both together and hence it thinks my partition is ~300 Gig out of ~260 Gig total or so (rough number estimates here). But the issue is I'm wondering, what, exactly, is hiding in that crypt directory, because everything else on the system is like 50-60 Gig for the OS etc.

Anyway I could find out? I guess if no-one replies here I'll look elsewhere.

---

### Post by -Sparx- on 2011-09-18
Hi,

I ran in to this problem with "double" disk space as well when I just now looked in to buying a solid state drive. But if I understand it correctly this shouldn't be a problem?

I still am a bit curious about the discrepancy in the disk usage and was wondering what it might be.
Looking at lamadredelsapo output of df -h we get the usage:
> 
```

Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sdb1             448G  319G  107G  75% /
none                  1.9G  260K  1.9G   1% /dev
none                  1.9G  284K  1.9G   1% /dev/shm
none                  1.9G   84K  1.9G   1% /var/run
none                  1.9G     0  1.9G   0% /var/lock
none                  1.9G     0  1.9G   0% /lib/init/rw
/home/fernando/.Private
                      448G  319G  107G  75% /home/fernando

```

But the numbers don't add up. 
448-319 /= 107
whare are the other 22Gs?
I get this same thing on my laptop. What am I missing?

---

### Post by mainguy on 2011-10-02
> **LordDelta said:**
> There does seem to be something questionable going on with eCryptfs at least for me.



I am having a serious problem with ecryptfs too.  When the fault occurs "df -h" says my SSD is near 100% full.  After I reboot the computer twice the problem usually goes away.  But it occasionally returns.  

I think I might not use encryption next time I install ubuntu.  Which is a shame.

---

### Post by DannyDroid on 2011-11-11
Same problem here. Happens on my netbook and laptop.

Is there no fix? ):

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2011-11-11
> **DannyDroid said:**
> Same problem here. Happens on my netbook and laptop.

Is there no fix? ):

There is nothing to fix. Except maybe in the disk usage app. But that's only a cosmetic thing. Read through this thread, you are **not** using double the disk space.

---

### Post by Luke has no name on 2011-11-22
> **FuturePilot said:**
> There is nothing to fix. Except maybe in the disk usage app. But that's only a cosmetic thing. Read through this thread, you are **not** using double the disk space.

Ya, there is something to fix. I'm using 300MB in my home directory, but in df, my home dir and Private dir are EACH showing 100 GB usage. Applications are failing because of no free space.

---

### Post by test-bot on 2011-12-03
been fighting this since i did a fresh install of 11.10 on a new machine. 

finally made a bug report. it'll prolly get shot down but this needs to be addressed imo. w/o an encryption solution, we can't use ubuntu. it's against our policy.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ecryptfs-utils/+bug/899604](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ecryptfs-utils/+bug/899604)

---

### Post by DannyDroid on 2011-12-12
> **FuturePilot said:**
> There is nothing to fix. Except maybe in the disk usage app. But that's only a cosmetic thing. Read through this thread, you are **not** using double the disk space.

There **is** something to fix. I understand that it's not really using double the disk space, but some applications believe the warning to be true, thus, sometimes, I am unable to log in and loads some applications.

---

