---
title: "14.04 Ubuntu, possible backdoor?"
date: 2015-02-12
forum: Security
---

### Post by Dm._Berezovsky on 2015-02-12
Using 14.04 Kubuntu and as I guess I got backdoor. Kubuntu was downloaded from official website, I didnt installed any of suspicious software. Maybe I surf some possible vulnerable websites, I'm not sure they'are vulnerably but I can suppose. So I have a guess that I got backdoor. How it may possible (if exclude version of vulnerable/substituted updates from Sofware Updates app - if it possible pls tell me know)? And what tools and actions I can use to perform the check my Ubuntu on vulnerability?

Thank you.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-02-12
What leads you to believe you got hacked?

---

### Post by Dm._Berezovsky on 2015-02-12
Im interested in knowledge of possibility these attacks which I describe in 1st post.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-02-12
You didn't describe anything.
You just said you got backdoored.

Which is like saying my program doesn't work.
And leaving it like that, with no additional information to go on.

But for a good start read over the [Ubuntu Security Sticky]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812")

---

### Post by Dm._Berezovsky on 2015-02-12
Im not asking to proof by my post do I have backdoor or not. Im just asking about methods/tools can I use to check backdoor. Also about possibilities of attack describes in 1st post.

Pls tell me what additional information can I provide to you?

All I can say is all my new registered accounts are been hacked and private date on hardware has been stolen.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2015-02-12
> **Dm._Berezovsky said:**
> Im not asking to proof by my post do I have backdoor or not. Im just asking about methods/tools can I use to check backdoor. Also about possibilities of attack describes in 1st post.

Pls tell me what additional information can I provide to you?

All I can say is all my new registered accounts are been hacked and private date on hardware has been stolen.

What exactly are you trolling for?

---

### Post by Dm._Berezovsky on 2015-02-12
Whats wrong?

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-02-12
When did you install Kubuntu?  Today?

---

### Post by PondPuppy on 2015-02-12
The sticky post mentioned by deadflowr is a good one.

The OP might review this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1887348](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1887348) which has a short discussion about detecting "backdoors". 

There is also a discussion on Serverfault about detecting a compromised Linux server: [http://serverfault.com/questions/158691/how-to-check-if-a-linux-server-is-clean-from-rootkits-backdoors-botnets-etc](http://serverfault.com/questions/158691/how-to-check-if-a-linux-server-is-clean-from-rootkits-backdoors-botnets-etc)

Both discussions are a few years old, however. If you search the web a bit you'll probably find much more extensive info.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-02-12
I've used KDE for nearly two decades, and Kubuntu for at least half that time.  It's running on a number of machines I own.  I have no idea what the OP is talking about since it certainly doesn't correspond with my experience.

---

### Post by Dm._Berezovsky on 2015-02-13
rkhunter does not find anything, but anyway im interesting. If we will suppose what I got backdoor 100% then how I could got backdoor if I downloaded clean official image? What variants? I'm talking about home PC.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-02-13
> **Dm._Berezovsky said:**
> Using 14.04 Kubuntu and as I guess I got backdoor. Kubuntu was downloaded from official website, I didnt installed any of suspicious software. Maybe I surf some possible vulnerable websites, I'm not sure they'are vulnerably but I can suppose. So I have a guess that I got backdoor. How it may possible (if exclude version of vulnerable/substituted updates from Sofware Updates app - if it possible pls tell me know)? And what tools and actions I can use to perform the check my Ubuntu on vulnerability?

Thank you.

What makes you think your system has been compromised? If you used the official repositories to download your image and updates, you have nothing to worry about. If you feel the need, you can check the md5sum of the package against the md5 hashes that Canonical/Ubuntu publishes.

---

### Post by markodd on 2015-02-14
> **cariboo907 said:**
> What makes you think your system has been compromised? If you used the official repositories to download your image and updates, you have nothing to worry about. If you feel the need, you can check the md5sum of the package against the md5 hashes that Canonical/Ubuntu publishes.

He answered in another post:

[COLOR=#000000][INDENT]"All I can say is all my new registered accounts are been hacked and private date on hardware has been stolen."[/INDENT]


[/COLOR]

I think this guy might be a troll though. Anyway, I've reported this thread. The title is very click-bait and doesn't represent the true, at all..

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2015-02-14
To the OP : you will find very helpful people around here. But you need to provide information for them to help you. All I can say is that my crystal ball is not quite working here. All I can assume is that theirs is not working better either.

---

### Post by Dm._Berezovsky on 2015-02-14
> **cariboo907 said:**
> What makes you think your system has been compromised? If you used the official repositories to download your image and updates, you have nothing to worry about. If you feel the need, you can check the md5sum of the package against the md5 hashes that Canonical/Ubuntu publishes.

I'm a little paranoid but cant you allow case of hacked Canonical server and replaced backdoored updates? Im not troll , Im just interesting in possibilities.

Anyway guys. Could pls answer my question

> If we will suppose what I got backdoor 100% then how I could got  backdoor if I downloaded clean official image? What variants? I'm  talking about home PC.

So do we exlude the Firefox 0day exploit for example because of "root" password or its possible? All others cases is it fake apps downloaded from internet and runned with "sudo"?


I'm really dont know what exactly information you need for answer on this I guess simple question. Im using linux as usual windows user (surfing, working etc), I'm not a very interesting in system configs and nuances (I know that not very good but I will correct) so I just want to know what threats can I expect.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-02-14
No, I doubt that Canonical servers will be hacked and compromised releases distributed.  That happened once six years ago to [RedHat]("https://isc.sans.edu/forums/diary/RedHat+Fedora+Servers+Compromised/4919/"), but I not heard of a similar incident since then.  I suspect the admins of all the major distributions became much more cautious after that incident.

If you really are that paranoid, you can build a system from source code at [Linux From Scratch]("http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/") or [Gentoo](http://www.gentoo.org).

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-02-14
Please tell us what made you write 'all my new registered accounts are been hacked and private date on hardware has been stolen'!

- What have you noticed? What makes you suspicious?

- Are you running any service with access to your computer from other computers (in a local area network or from the internet)? Or is it a standard Kubuntu system without such extra services? Have you opened any ports (except what is open in the standard installation)? Have you visited web-sites, that you wish you had not visited? Have other people physical access to your computer? ... All such information is important.

There are experienced people here, who can suggest how to check for more traces and to check that the protection methods are working. If you give us details, we can help. Are you prepared to give us such details, and to run test commands, that might be suggested, in order to trouble-shoot your operating system?

- Maybe traces can be found, that confirm that someone has had access to your computer - and a security hole can be patched to avoid that kind of attack again.

- Maybe what you see is a 'false positive', in other words, it makes you think that data are stolen from your computer, but it is not the case. Instead there is another explanation for what you see.

-o-

Otherwise we can only give some very general advice, and suggest that you read some wiki pages and tutorials, for example at the following links

[Ubuntu Security Sticky]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812")

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicSecurity](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicSecurity)

---

### Post by sammiev on 2015-02-14
Your computer is only as safe as the programs you give root access and your surfing habits on the internet. If you are going to allow 3rd party programs and PPA's from everywhere then you can problems. The only person who has control of that is the user.

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2015-02-14
> **Dm._Berezovsky said:**
> Im not asking to proof by my post do I have backdoor or not. Im just asking about methods/tools can I use to check backdoor. Also about possibilities of attack describes in 1st post.

Pls tell me what additional information can I provide to you?

All I can say is all my new registered accounts are been hacked and private date on hardware has been stolen.First of all, you don't mean "backdoor". You mean "compromised". A backdoor is a very specific thing that is only one in a sea of possibilities. I see no reason for you to conclude it was a backdoor, so let's assume you meant that you want to find out how your accounts got hacked and your data got stolen.

The possible ways you can be compromised are innumerable. The software you download could contain malicious code. You could surf to a compromised website. You could open a malicious attachment in an email. You could plug in a compromised USB accessory. You could pirate illegal media files that are malicious. You could join a malicious wifi network. Someone with physical access could mess with your computer. And yes, your OS image or your hardware could contain a backdoor.

There's a cheat sheet from SANS that will give you some idea of what to look for when hunting for the source of a compromise (Looks like you might have to create a SANS account before you can download it.) [http://pen-testing.sans.org/resources/downloads#linux](http://pen-testing.sans.org/resources/downloads#linux)

---

### Post by Dm._Berezovsky on 2015-02-18
> **bashiergui said:**
> First of all, you don't mean "backdoor". You mean "compromised". A backdoor is a very specific thing that is only one in a sea of possibilities. I see no reason for you to conclude it was a backdoor, so let's assume you meant that you want to find out how your accounts got hacked and your data got stolen.

The possible ways you can be compromised are innumerable. The software you download could contain malicious code. You could surf to a compromised website. You could open a malicious attachment in an email. You could plug in a compromised USB accessory. You could pirate illegal media files that are malicious. You could join a malicious wifi network. Someone with physical access could mess with your computer. And yes, your OS image or your hardware could contain a backdoor.

There's a cheat sheet from SANS that will give you some idea of what to look for when hunting for the source of a compromise (Looks like you might have to create a SANS account before you can download it.) [http://pen-testing.sans.org/resources/downloads#linux](http://pen-testing.sans.org/resources/downloads#linux)

Really big thanks for reply. Whole my question is what can hacker get on my Ubuntu with root password If I did something from your lists of possible attack?

Also I want to post my question from stackexchange here
> 
          Using 14.04 fresh-updated Ubuntu for home PC. I guess I got backdoor and Im trying to find out how its possible.
  I do not downloaded side apps. Using Ubuntu for browsing most all of the time.
  So I have 2 version:
  1) Compromised updated from Canonical (I know it sounds little  paranoid but its possible?) 2) Im get backdoor after personal attack by substite my download queries  on apps (from Muon Software Center or Updates) to stucked apps with  backdoor on server/provider side or vpn-server side (im using vpn server  from time to time).
  I know its paranoid and Im not pro system guy, but I really want to know this. So my questions:
  
[LIST=1]
[*]Is it possible?
[*]What other ways I can got backdoor?
[/LIST]
  Please don't ask me why I think my system was compromised, lets think theoretically.
      


---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-02-18
"I guess I got backdoor" and "lets think theoretically" tells me you have just a suspicion and no real evidence for a compromise.  If you do have evidence, you need to spell it out completely here if you want people to take your concerns seriously.

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2015-02-18
> Whole my question is what can hacker get on my Ubuntu with root password If I did something from your lists of possible attack?Everything. An attacker can get and do anything when he's root. 

You're not considering the likelihood of these attacks though. Half the story is knowing how they can get in. The other half is determining how likely each attack will be. Not sure what your native language is, but you should search for introductory security books. You're asking the forum to explain Information Security to you in a post, which is impossible.

---

### Post by Pumm4 on 2015-02-18
> **Dm._Berezovsky said:**
> What tools and actions I can use to perform the check my Ubuntu on vulnerability?
Hi Berezovsky!

There are few things you can do in this situation ...


**Verifying software packages**
Typically, if you install a software package from a standard repository or download a reputable site’s package, you won’t have any problems. But it is always good to double-check your installed software packages to see if they have been compromised.

To verify packages on Ubuntu, you need the debsums utility. It is not installed by default. 

To install debsums, use the command:
```
[FONT=courier new]sudo apt-get install debsums[/FONT]
```
To check all installed packages, use command:
```
[FONT=courier new]debsums -a[/FONT]
```
To check one package, type:
```
[FONT=courier new]debsums package_name[/FONT]
```

When you verify the software, information from the installed package files is compared against the package meta-data in the database. If no problems are found, the typed command will return nothing. However, if there are discrepancies, you will get a coded listing.

**Detecting rootkits**
It is best to use a Live CD or flash drive to run chkrootkit so that the results are not circumvented by a rootkit.

To install chkrookit on an Ubuntu system, use the command 
```
[FONT=courier new]sudo apt-get install chkrootkit[/FONT]
```

Finding a rootkit with chkrootkit is simple. After installing the package or booting up the Live CD, type in [FONT=courier new]chkrootkit[/FONT] at the command line. It will search the entire file structure denoting any infected files.


**Detecting an intrusion **
Snort, aide (The Advanced Intrusion Detection Environment) and tripwire are Popular GNU/Linux Intrusion Detection Systems.

In short that is it! Stay Safe!

---

### Post by Dm._Berezovsky on 2015-02-18
> **bashiergui said:**
> Everything. An attacker can get and do anything when he's root. 


I meant I logged in as user not root. What attacker can achieve with it if used bugged browser for example?


P.S.** Thanks a lot Pumm4!**

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2015-02-19
In all honesty, if you're logged in as a normal user, then all the 'hacker' can possibly do damage to (and with) would be the files in your user account. This includes, of course, your personal settings for all your installed software; but no more than this. Assuming you've done the sensible thing, and backed-up your data, you shouldn't have a problem in that respect.

I may be wrong here (I often am!), but as I understand it, even if someone DOES gain access to your user account, they can't gain root access simply by typing 'sudo' in the terminal. They would need your password, too.....and I don't think a hacker will gain this by breaking into your account by 'brute force' methods, or even a 'man-in-the-middle' attack... And even the administrator of an Ubuntu system (typically the primary user account) does NOT have access to the 'root' password.

As I say, I could be wrong. Willing to be informed otherwise (AND corrected!)


Regards,

Mike. ;)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-02-19
I could turn your computer into a spambot without root privileges.  All I need is to get you to run a program that puts itself into the background, downloads messages and address lists from some central server, and starts spamming hundreds or thousands of people every night while you're sleeping.  Windows computers around the world are infested with crap like that.  My mail logs are full of attempted SMTP connections from infected computers in homes and small businesses all over the world.

Roping your computer into a botnet wouldn't be hard either.  Again all of these things rely on getting you to run some piece of rogue software with your ordinary user privileges.

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2015-02-19
Seijisensei makes excellent points. To further answer Mike Walsch, an attacker has multiple options to escalate his privileges to become root. Here are two searches for privilege escalation vulnerabilities in Ubuntu and in WordPress. 
[https://www.google.com/search?q=privilege+escalation+inurl:ubuntu.com/usn/]("https://www.google.com/search?q=privilige+escalation+inurl:ubuntu.com/usn/#q=privilege+escalation+inurl:ubuntu.com/usn/&spell=1")
[https://www.google.com/search?q=privilege+escalation+wordpress+inurl:nvd.nist.gov]("https://www.google.com/search?q=privilege+escalation+wordpress+inurl:nvd.nist.gov&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&hl=en&client=safari")

He could do similar searches for all the software on your system until he finds one that exists on your machine and that he can exploit. He might write his own exploit, find one in Metasploit that he can basically point-and-click, or find one publicly released. 
 
Or he could trick you into running a keylogger and steal your sudo password. 

So no, an attacker is not necessarily confined to the user he's running as.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2015-02-20
All points well taken!

Those are quite some lists.....and too many people, unfortunately, have this 'perception' of Linux being 'invincible'. Of course, as you say, a lot of exploits DO rely on 'social engineering', or tricking you into doing something you would never normally do.....perhaps out of curiosity. I like to think I've been around the block too many times to fall for that one.

@SeijiSensei:-

> [COLOR=#000000]I could turn your computer into a spambot without root privileges. All I need is to get you to run a program that puts itself into the background, downloads messages and address lists from some central server, and starts spamming hundreds or thousands of people every night while you're sleeping.[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]

[/COLOR]IS it possible to turn someone's computer ON, remotely, when it's been physically 'powered-off'? I'm one of those people who always turns my machines off when I'm not using them; never been in the habit of simply leaving them on all the time. And I usually turn them off at the mains, too...


Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-02-20
Not everyone turns off their computers every day. Mike.  I have at least three systems that are runnning 24/7.  

A more sophisticated spambot would watch your patterns of usage and adjust its schedule to times your computer is on and perhaps adjust its pace of sending to hide its behavior while you're doing other things.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2015-02-20
Hm! Appears there's a wee bit more to securing a Linux box than folk would have you believe.....

No, I appreciate there's a fair number of private individuals who use servers on a day-to-day basis, as well as those to whom they are an indispensable part of their business infrastructure. I'm just starting to experiment with them, myself. I have an elderly Compaq desktop, and an even older Dell Inspiron laptop; an original 1100, from 2002. The Dell's pretty low-spec by today's standards, but she works well enough for someone who's semi-retired, and got time on their hands. The big old Compaq , although 10 yrs old, was a much 'higher-spec' machine when new, and is where most of my data is stored.

I use Samba on the Compaq (running Ubuntu 14.04), and the Dell (rescued by Puppy Linux) has a Samba client built-in; the lightweight, Samba-TNG fork. I use the Dell in and around the house in various locations, as it's more portable than the desktop, obviously. It's early days; this is only on the home LAN, for now. My next step is to attempt to set it up to work remotely, across the 'net.....and that's where security will need to be somewhat more stringent, I would imagine!

I can see I shall need to do a bit more reading up.... :p  Any tips as to how I go about doing that? I know this thread isn't the place ( I'm not going to 'hijack' it! ), but ANY pointers in the right direction would be appreciated.....especially with regards to securing it.


Regards, 

Mike.

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2015-02-20
> I can see I shall need to do a bit more reading up.... :razz: Any tips as to how I go about doing that? I know this thread isn't the place ( I'm not going to 'hijack' it! ), but ANY pointers in the right direction would be appreciated.....especially with regards to securing it.Here are a few general guides. There are also some resources at the top of the security subforum. But really, if you do nothing else, update your software often and if you have services facing the internet make sure to use keys and very strong passwords.
[http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-ways-to-secure-your-linux-desktop/](http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-ways-to-secure-your-linux-desktop/)
[https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-bastille-to-harden-an-ubuntu-12-04](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-bastille-to-harden-an-ubuntu-12-04)
[http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/forums/t/552130/guide-practical-gnulinux-security-desktop-edition/](http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/forums/t/552130/guide-practical-gnulinux-security-desktop-edition/)
 [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicSecurity](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicSecurity)

---

### Post by Dm._Berezovsky on 2015-02-25
> **Mike_Walsh said:**
> 
I may be wrong here (I often am!), but as I understand it, even if someone DOES gain access to your user account, they can't gain root access simply by typing 'sudo' in the terminal. They would need your password, too.....and I don't think a hacker will gain this by breaking into your account by 'brute force' methods, or even a 'man-in-the-middle' attack... And even the administrator of an Ubuntu system (typically the primary user account) does NOT have access to the 'root' password.

As I say, I could be wrong. Willing to be informed otherwise (AND corrected!)


Regards,

Mike. ;)

How attacker can use Man-in-the-middle attack for sudo password? I thought it was for internet connection between you and your internet provider. Or it doesnt?

However I know possibilities about sniffing traffic on server-side but can attacker substitute/replace my queries on the way to/from provider?

---

