---
title: "Allow SSH tunnel through ufw firewall"
date: 2011-06-15
forum: Security
---

### Post by pcarlos853 on 2011-06-15
Hi,

I have set up a Ubuntu 10.10 server. I have been using ssh tunnels to encrypt my web traffic at public wifi. I am trying to make this server as secure as posible so I enabled ufw. I allowed SSH and HTTP traffic in and denied everything else. But when I do that I can not use SSH -D because when I try to visit a webpage it does not load and I get the following.

```
uname@mybox:~$ channel 3: open failed: connect failed: Connection timed out
^C
uname@mybox:~$ fclchannel 4: open failed: connect failed: Connection timed out
^C
uname@mybox:~$ exit
logout

```What do I have to do to allow ufw to allow ssh tunnels through? 

Thanks!

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-06-15
Nice how to here : [https://calomel.org/firefox_ssh_proxy.html](https://calomel.org/firefox_ssh_proxy.html)

You did not post enough information to give you more advice though.

My guess would be you need to forward port 22 from your router to your ssh server.

You do NOT need to allow port 80, the http traffic tunnels over port 22.

---

### Post by pcarlos853 on 2011-06-15
Hi bodhi.zazen,

Sorry I wrote that at work today in a bit of a hurry. Ill give you some background info. I am running Ubuntu 10.10 server to host my website (that is why port 80 is allowed) I connect to it via SSH. I have been connecting to it from the WAN (All necessary ports are open on my router). I wanted to configure UFW to make my server more secure so I did. I allowed 80 In and 22 IN. But my problem is I can not create SSH tunnels when UFW is enabled, however I can still ssh in to it. When I have UFW enabled and I try to SSH Tunnel I get: 

```
uname@mybox:~$ channel 3: open failed: connect failed: Connection timed  out ^C uname@mybox:~$ fclchannel 4: open failed: connect failed:  Connection timed out ^C uname@mybox:~$ exit logout
```

I have to type sudo ufw disable to allow SSH Tunnels.

The output of sudo ufw status is: 

```

Status: active

To                         Action      From
--                         ------      ----
80/tcp                     ALLOW       Anywhere
22                         ALLOW       Anywhere

10.0.0.66 22/tcp           ALLOW OUT   Anywhere


```

I can't seem to figure it out. Ill try allowing SSH out as well to see if that makes a difference. 

Thanks for your help and the GREAT guides you have written about security in this forum (which I am in the process of reading)!

Carlos

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2011-06-16
When you use the ssh in socks proxy mode (-D) it will use the same connection as if you ssh in manually - to get into your server. But after that it will use outgoing connections to connect out from your server. So check the firewall and make sure that you allow outgoing connections from your server and also aren't blocking anything on the lo interface (either locally or on the server).

The outgoing connections done by ssh will be up in the high range, say port 40000-50000 area typically, so you wouldn't want them blocked either outgoing from server or on your router.

I'm not sure about those error messages - I haven't seen that wording before and it seems like something other than ssh would generate those. There are no "channels" in ssh connections. My inclination would be that these are generated by some app you have that is running over the ssh tunnel and it isn't configured to correctly use the socks proxy.

---

### Post by pcarlos853 on 2011-06-16
I found out what the problem was. I had my ufw to deny all in/out but with the following rules:

```
Status: active

To                         Action      From
--                         ------      ----
80/tcp                     ALLOW       Anywhere
22                         ALLOW       Anywhere

10.0.0.66 22/tcp           ALLOW OUT   Anywhere
```

I had not allowed HTTP traffic out from the server. I just allowed HTTP/HTTPS out and now the SSH Tunnel is working.  Thanks for the help,

---

