---
title: "Passphrase Limitations"
date: 2014-09-08
forum: Security
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2014-09-08
Sorry for this basic question but I have not found the answer (yet) surfing the web.  I'm about to set up encrytion on a friends laptop I look after, having tested the setup on my own machine, and have a question re the passphrase.  What are the limitations of the password?  Obviously you can have **1234** but can you have something like **proxy car flies random healthyet almost readings however your** or anything that contains characters?  A random sentence has spaces - is this OK in the passphrase or does it have to be one word/srtring? A link to this rule would be super - thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-09-08
Which encryption are you using?
Modern tools should allow anything to be entered.  I use over 60 characters of completely random stuff generated by a password manager - any UTF8 characters.

[https://superuser.com/questions/312838/dm-crypt-luks-passphrase-keyfile-length](https://superuser.com/questions/312838/dm-crypt-luks-passphrase-keyfile-length)

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2014-09-15
Howdy,

The best thing you can do for security is to install KeepassX.  It works on all platforms insluding Android, Windows and Mac.  I place the database on Dropbox and then I can access it from any of my devices.

With Keepass, you can generate unique random long passwords for each and every account and web site and use copy and paste to enter them.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-09-15
1+.

I use 
* KeePassX - Linux
* KeePass v1.x - Windows
* KeePassDroid - Android

The important thing is to have the DB files be binary compatible. On Android, copy/paste of the passwords is a greater hassle - no auto-type - like Linux supports.  The tools above use the v1.x DB file, so just copy the DB to the different platforms as needed. I use 1 as a "master" and replicate to about 8 other locations/platforms nightly via cron.

[http://blog.jdpfu.com/2010/04/24/keepassx-password-manager](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2010/04/24/keepassx-password-manager) - why KeePassX?
[http://blog.jdpfu.com/2011/03/25/101-uses-for-a-password-manager](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2011/03/25/101-uses-for-a-password-manager) - other uses for password managers

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-09-15
Jailed a double post.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2014-09-16
Thank you - I will give keepassx a look.

---

