---
title: "Iptables rules change on their own"
date: 2011-09-27
forum: Security
---

### Post by rng on 2011-09-27
I have been trying to set up iptables firewall using ufw and firestarter. However, now I find the rules change on their own off and on when I check with iptables-save command. Has anyone else experienced this kind of problem? What could be the reason?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-09-27
> **rng said:**
> I have been trying to set up iptables firewall using ufw and firestarter. However, now I find the rules change on their own off and on when I check with iptables-save command. Has anyone else experienced this kind of problem? What could be the reason?

Well, all three of those tools (iptables from the command line, ufw, and firestarter) are trying to do the same thing.

I suggest you use one or the other. You would need to purge firestarter or the rules stay and conflict with ufw.

```
sudo apt-get purge firestarter
```

---

### Post by rng on 2011-09-27
Is there any way to prevent firestarter (and ufw) from being active without actually uninstalling it?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-09-28
> **rng said:**
> Is there any way to prevent firestarter (and ufw) from being active without actually uninstalling it?

ufw and firestarter conflict with each other, and the problem is with firstarter.

Firestarter is no longer maintained, so unless you code the solution yourself there is no solution other then removing firestarter.

You should use one or the other , not both.

---

### Post by stlsaint on 2011-09-29
I agree with the above post. Fact is firestarter is depreciated. I would advise that you stick to using iptables directly via cli.

---

### Post by rng on 2011-09-29
Thanks. I will uninstall firestarter.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-09-30
I think that guw / gufw also uses an iptables-save/iptables/restore approach to maintaining the iptables configuration, so any attempt to tinker with the iptables rules yourself will also conflict with what ufw is doing. If you choose to use ufw, you will have to work with it rather than against it to achieve the customisations you want.

---

### Post by rng on 2011-10-01
I have tried to solve the problem by saving my rules and running following script in a terminal: 

-----------
#!/bin/bash
while true
do
    iptables-restore < myrules.saved
    sleep 60s
done
-----------

It seems a stupid method but it works.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-10-01
You shouldn't have to do that. If you have your own rules, then you should > sudo apt-get purge firestarter ufwto get rid of them and stop them changing your rules all the time.

---

### Post by rng on 2011-10-01
Thanks. I did'nt know I could remove ufw also.

---

### Post by rng on 2011-10-06
I found that sometimes the iptables rules are changed to ACCEPT all: 

# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Thu Oct  6 10:11:33 2011
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [132:10328]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [132:10328]
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Oct  6 10:11:33 2011
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Thu Oct  6 10:11:33 2011
*mangle
: PREROUTING ACCEPT [132:10328]
: INPUT ACCEPT [132:10328]
: FORWARD DROP [0:0]
: OUTPUT ACCEPT [132:10328]
: POSTROUTING ACCEPT [132:10328]
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Oct  6 10:11:33 2011
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Thu Oct  6 10:11:33 2011
*nat
: PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
: POSTROUTING ACCEPT [66:4240]
: OUTPUT ACCEPT [66:4240]
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Oct  6 10:11:33 2011


I am not sure how this is happening. Just before, I had disconnected the network from NetworkManager Applet icon on top of the screen, but I am not sure if that is the culprit.

Edit: I checked with 'sudo iptables-save' command, connecting and disconnecting the network. On disconnecting, the rules change to ACCEPT as above and on connecting they change back to regular firewall rules. This actually looks very good.

---

