---
title: ".Iso Image"
date: 2009-07-03
forum: Security
---

### Post by otaku3230 on 2009-07-03
1. Can an .iso image contain a virus or any other malware

2. If so, is their a tool to detect it before burning to a cd/dvd?

3.  If you do burn a .iso movie image to a cd that has a virus or malware and play it, can it mess up your computer if you have both windows and ubuntu installed but you only only use ubuntu OS to play cds/dvds?

4. And if theat .iso image is a software and you install it on windows can it harm your pc if it did contain a malware or virus?

I hope someone can answers all my questions! ):P

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2009-07-03
A .iso can contain everything a CD can contain, so it can contain viruses as well (but no viruses for Linux since they don't exist), If it contains a virus and you run the CD on windows it could harm your pc if the antivirus program on your pc doesn't recognize the virus. 
If you run the CD only with Linux there is almost no chance the virus could harm your computer.
If you want to check if the iso contains a virus: every good virus scanner should discover the virus if you scan for it. 
If the iso contains open-source programs it's very unlikely there is a virus chipped with them (if you get the program from trusted resources like sourceforge or the ubuntu repositories).

I hope this helps, if you have still questions: post them.

---

### Post by otaku3230 on 2009-07-03
> **sanderd17 said:**
> 
If you run the CD only with Linux there is almost no chance the virus could harm your computer.

Even if you have windows installed on the same hard drive but in a different partition?

Also, can someone use a software/tool to add their own virus or malware inside a .iso image if their was no virus in that .iso image to begin with?

---

### Post by LifeOnMaths on 2009-07-03
> **otaku3230 said:**
> Even if you have windows installed on the same hard drive but in a different partition?

While you are running linux, then any infection, of any drive/partition, happened as an exploit of linux. However, you could still save an infected file, which might cause damage if you then opened it in windows.

Similarly, while you are running windows, a windows virus could cause damage to your linux OS; what matters is the OS you execute to virus in.

> **otaku3230 said:**
> Also, can someone use a software/tool to add their own virus or malware inside a .iso image if their was no virus in that .iso image to begin with?

Certainly - at the simplest level, someone could extract the iso, do anything with the files, and then make a new iso with the same name. The file hash would differ, though.

Hope that helped, feel free to ask if I was unclear.

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2009-07-03
> **otaku3230 said:**
> Even if you have windows installed on the same hard drive but in a different partition? Linux is not Windows. And a virus is at its most basic level still a Windows program. So it can't activate itself under Linux.

> **otaku3230 said:**
>  Also, can someone use a software/tool to add their own virus or malware inside a .iso image if their was no virus in that .iso image to begin with? Of course. ISO images are easy to manipulate. :D

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2009-07-03
Someone can use software to introduce a virus in an existing iso but since there are no viruses for linux, if the iso on a partition that can be read only by linux (like ext3, ext4 ...) this can't happen.

About your first question, I'm not completely sure, I know there exists antivirus programs for linux to protect windows on the same computer so I think it could be possible but I never heard someone who had a virus in his windows because of a program he ran on linux.

I think you shouldn't be afraid for viruses in an iso-file in linux, a bug in the program on the iso is much more dangerous than a possible virus

---

### Post by otaku3230 on 2009-07-03
> **sanderd17 said:**
> a bug in the program on the iso is much more dangerous than a possible virus

how dangerous can that be ):P

also, if that bug does some damage to a partitioned ubunto section will that affect windows operating system also (just making sure what risk their might be)

And can some one please answer the 2nd question: a tool that can see everything inside an .Iso image before burning or copying it.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-07-03
There are many tools to see the contents of an iso image.

The simplest one is to simply loop mount the iso image.

```
sudo mkdir /media/iso

sudo mount -t iso9660 -o loop filename.iso /media/iso
```

If you want a graphical tool , try gmountiso

I also suggest you read this :

[Ubuntu Security - Ubuntu Forums]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812")

---

