---
title: "11.04 Antivirus"
date: 2011-05-08
forum: Security
---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-08
Is the Clamav still a good antivirus program for 11.04?

---

### Post by fballem on 2011-05-08
Many Linux users don't bother with any anti-virus program. Linux is very different than Windows and, at least for now, viruses and trojans are not an issue.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-05-08
Moved to Security Discussions.

ClamAV in 11.04 is usable.

---

### Post by kitsuneclem on 2011-05-08
I like avast In particular But its only available on 84bit linux (or what ever it is)
(avast is made by reformed hackers)

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2011-05-08
If you're sharing lots of files with Windows boxes (For example, you have a fileserver), clamAV is a good idea. However, for normal desktop use, don't bother. It's just extra bloat you don't need.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-08
> **fballem said:**
> Many Linux users don't bother with any anti-virus program. Linux is very different than Windows and, at least for now, viruses and trojans are not an issue.

That is interesting.
Wonder why Keir Thomas would write and discuss about it in length in his books.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-05-08
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> Is the Clamav still a good antivirus program for 11.04?

Most desktop users have no need for antivirus, it is more common for servers, samba or mail servers to be specific.

If you need antivirus, clamav is adequate and what I use. Other people have their won preferances.

A better question is what are you using antiviurs for and what features do you want or what do you feel clamav lacks ? 

If you are using antivirus because you feel it is part of security, then no, clamav is not for you. You would need to learn Linux security as outlined in the security sticky.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-05-08
> **gumshoegrant said:**
> That is interesting.
Wonder why Keir Thomas would write and discuss about it in length in his books.

Perhaps because it is a FAQ from users coming from Windows who do not understand that there are no known active viruses for Linux ?

I do not run antivirus on my Linux boxes and have been using Linux from before Ubuntu was born, never seen a virus on any of my Linux boxes.

But I do not run a samba file server with windows clients or a mail server. So antivirus has a role, just very little, if any, on a Desktop.

Describing how to use a tool, and advising people use it just because or just because they use antivirus in Windows are two different things entirely. You can find a description of how to use a motorcycle helmet at any DMV or motorcycle safety course, but does that mean you should wear a motorcycle helmet when you drive a car ?

Describing a tool is easy, you need to understand how and when to use it.

---

### Post by GiuHei3u on 2011-05-08
Appreciate the responses. Thanks!

---

### Post by Ashyknuckles on 2011-05-19
Is it safe to install an antivirus if you have a dual boot system and do not want the Windows part to get infected?

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-05-19
> **Ashyknuckles said:**
> Is it safe to install an antivirus if you have a dual boot system and do not want the Windows part to get infected?

Yes, it is :)

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-05-19
> **Ashyknuckles said:**
> Is it safe to install an antivirus if you have a dual boot system and do not want the Windows part to get infected?

It is safe to install antivirus.

It is safe to run without antivirus on the Linux side even if you dual boot as there are no known active viruses for linux.

---

### Post by nuxrocks on 2011-07-31
i think i need antivirus for my ubuntu server.. i used ubuntu for backup server from client which using windows xp..

---

### Post by dirtrider1 on 2011-08-02
I think what people don't understand is running an antivirus application on Linux is not generally to protect the Linux desktop/server, it is installed to protect any windows machines that may connect or share files with that Linux box. Some people take an approach where they don't wan't to potentially spread or keep Windows Malware on their Linux box's even though it doesn't effect them so they will run an AV. While many Linux users simply don't bother because it's not worth the hassle and it's Windows users own responsibility to keep their machines secure.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-08-02
> **dirtrider1 said:**
> I think what people don't understand is running an antivirus application on Linux is not generally to protect the Linux desktop/server, it is installed to protect any windows machines that may connect or share files with that Linux box. Some people take an approach where they don't wan't to potentially spread or keep Windows Malware on their Linux box's even though it doesn't effect them so they will run an AV. While many Linux users simply don't bother because it's not worth the hassle and it's Windows users own responsibility to keep their machines secure.

I would point out these resources:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Antivirus](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Antivirus)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ClamAV](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ClamAV)

While there are valid user cases for antivirus, such as running a mail server or a web proxy for windows clients, the vast majority of people asking about antivirus on these forums are not corporate users looking for corporate solutions, rather they are new users migrating from a security model where antivirus is often touted as necessary.

Rather then blindly telling those users to install this or that, we really should :

1. Understand the user case. How are they going to use antivirus. 

2. If they are new to Linux, we really have an obligation to educate them a little more then telling them to use clamav. Please use the links on the ubuntu wiki and/or the security sticky.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812)

Where would an infected file on Linux come from ? One would need to download it from somewhere. 

So ...

Do not transfer downloaded files from Linux to Windows unless you first scan them from Windows for viruses. So, IMO, home users really have little or no need for antivirus and again after running Linux of many years I have not seen a virus on my Linux systems with the exception of a few viruses I purposely downloaded for testing.

If the windows user in question is not running a secure box , transferring a file from Linux is the least of their worries.

---

### Post by trungvkvk on 2011-08-04
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11004029](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11004029)
sorry. I am a newbie to use ubuntu.
 hopefully I'll get experience from people.
 What people experience when using ubuntu addiction please share.
 thanks.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-08-04
> **trungvkvk said:**
> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11004029](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11004029)
sorry. I am a newbie to use ubuntu.
 hopefully I'll get experience from people.
 What people experience when using ubuntu addiction please share.
 thanks.

Your question really has nothing to do with security issues. If you have a question about security, please start a new thread, as this one is closed.

---

