---
title: "Web access whitelists???"
date: 2011-10-06
forum: Security
---

### Post by tcarney57 on 2011-10-06
I have found lots of methods for *_blocking_* specific websites, domains, and other criteria. So far, all I found are methods for blocking access to sites. I want some thing that will *_block everything _*not on a whitelist. For my use, it seems that would be far easier than trying to come up with a complete set of blocking criteria in advance. Also, I don't want my kids wasting time surfing. I want to limit them only to specific sites that I've already approved.

In short, I'd want to set up Firefox or Chrome to *_allow access only_* to those sites I say they can. Any ideas?

Thanks!

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-10-06
Doesn't dansguardian allow for whitelisting sites?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-10-06
> **tcarney57 said:**
> I have found lots of methods for *_blocking_* specific websites, domains, and other criteria. So far, all I found are methods for blocking access to sites. I want some thing that will *_block everything _*not on a whitelist. For my use, it seems that would be far easier than trying to come up with a complete set of blocking criteria in advance. Also, I don't want my kids wasting time surfing. I want to limit them only to specific sites that I've already approved.

In short, I'd want to set up Firefox or Chrome to *_allow access only_* to those sites I say they can. Any ideas?

Thanks!

Depending on the length of your whitelist, iptables.

iptables -A OUTPUT -d good_ip_1 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -d good_ip_2 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j REJECT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 443 -j REJECT

---

### Post by Dangertux on 2011-10-06
+1 DansGuardian 

it can also be accomplished with Squid, or any other proxy eg:  Apache as a reverse proxy using htaccess , or alternatively iptables as also suggested.

I think DansGuardian would probably be the easiest method though.

---

### Post by hsweet on 2011-10-06
I've done a couple of years ago with IPTABLES (firewall)when I was teaching in a computer lab.  The whitelist was just a list of url's, one per line, read by a perl script that wrote the rules.  I forget all the details, but this is a subset of the whitelist it ended up producing

I also could also make the computers in the lab completely useless etc.
I'd have to re read my code to remember everything... :)

```

# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Mon Oct 18 19:06:59 2010
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [178:38439]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [6559:448417]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [6565:448825]
COMMIT
# Completed on Mon Oct 18 19:06:59 2010
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Mon Oct 18 19:06:59 2010
*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [31524:30843229]
:INPUT ACCEPT [31524:30843229]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [29019:3148968]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [29362:3217923]
COMMIT
# Completed on Mon Oct 18 19:06:59 2010
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Mon Oct 18 19:06:59 2010
*filter
:INPUT DROP [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [313:23143]
-A INPUT -m mac --mac-source 00:19:DB:7A:3B:80 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -m mac --mac-source 00:13:20:26:7B:69 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -m mac --mac-source 00:1C:C0:3B:DB:69 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -m mac --mac-source 00:90:27:06:4D:41 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 69 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 69 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p udp -m udp --sport 69 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --sport 69 -j ACCEPT 

```

---

