---
title: "8.10 encrypted lvm"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: Security
---

### Post by blocker on 2008-11-07
Hello,

i have tried to install ubuntu 8.10 on an encrypted lvm using the alternate cd, it works so far BUT i have noticed that the installer does not fill the partitions with random data actually i am not sure about that, but from my experience with debian and encrypted lvm, the filling process with random data on 80 gb partition lasts at least 60-90 mins, and ubuntu does not even show that its being filled with random data, it somehow jumps over this step! After the installation process and the required reboot, when booting it requires the encryption password (as expected) and does not boot without it - so it looks as it is encrypted...

my question is: how "real" is the encryption of 8.10, does the installer encrypt at all, or its just faked one, the encryption process looks very different from debian's one. Can anybody please explain this to me

Thanks!

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-11-08
> **blocker said:**
> Hello,

i have tried to install ubuntu 8.10 on an encrypted lvm using the alternate cd, it works so far BUT i have noticed that the installer does not fill the partitions with random data actually i am not sure about that, but from my experience with debian and encrypted lvm, the filling process with random data on 80 gb partition lasts at least 60-90 mins, and ubuntu does not even show that its being filled with random data, it somehow jumps over this step! After the installation process and the required reboot, when booting it requires the encryption password (as expected) and does not boot without it - so it looks as it is encrypted...

my question is: how "real" is the encryption of 8.10, does the installer encrypt at all, or its just faked one, the encryption process looks very different from debian's one. Can anybody please explain this to me

Thanks!

The data is quite encrypted. Boot a live CD an try to mount the partition.

Ubuntu uses LUKS, if that helps.

I am not sure if the installer writes random data to the drive or not, and if so, what kind of protocol is used exactly. Again, if you mount the partition you should have your answer in short order.

Writing random data to the drive is not strictly necessary, it just helps "hide" the encrypted data. Even if you know where the data is, you still need to decrypt it :twisted:

If you prefer you can manually write random data to your hard drive, then install.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-11-08
the install writes random data if you say to format the drive.

---

