---
title: "9.04 Jaunty encrypted account and password changing"
date: 2010-03-10
forum: Security
---

### Post by mmillman on 2010-03-10
Ok, so I discovered a slight problem yesterday when attempting to change my password...

When I first installed 9.04 (from scratch), I chose the option to have my entire account encrypted... I used the same password as my login password, and wrote down the key hash that it displayed for me just like instructed... everything was working terrific...

Well, yesterday, I wanted to change my account password.  I changed my account password, and it took effect immediately (I tested it by using "sudo -s" to see if I could elevate to root from the terminal... worked just fine).  Being satisfied with my new password, I shut my computer down...

The next time I started it up and tried to log in to my account, it I put in my username and password and pressed enter, and it accepted it just fine, and started to boot to my desktop... it then immediately prompted me with something about "your session lasted less than 10 seconds, try starting in failsafe mode" or something along those lines, and immediately booted me out and back to the gdm login screen... I thought it was just a glitch so I tried again... same thing... gave me the "less than 10 seconds" prompt and booted me back to the gdm...

I thought maybe my filesystem became corrupted, but I didn't give up...  I attempted to login to my fiancee's account, and it worked just fine!  Using her account, I was able to quickly and safely boot into her desktop environment with no errors...

I opened a terminal and used the "su" command to access my account...  When I did this, it gave me some kind of error and told me to run ecryptfs (can't remember exactly which command... now).  I ran ecryptfs and put in my NEW password... it told me that the passphrase was incorrect...  So just out of curiosity, I ran it again, and this time put in my OLD passphrase, and it worked immediately!

At this point, I realized that my gdm login password got changed, but my ecryptfs passphrase did not, and the two were not matching up (I assume that on login, gdm passes this password on to ecryptfs, and that when the two did not match up, it was booting me out with the whole "session lasted less than 10 seconds" prompt...)...

So what I did at this point was, while logged into my girlfriend's account, I "su"'d into my account, and used the passwd command to change my password back to my OLD password...  once the password was changed back successfully, I restarted my computer and tried to log into my account from the gdm... worked perfectly this time with the old (original) password...


So, my question is: is this normal?  When you change your session password, shouldn't it automatically change the encyrption password to match?  Or at the very least, warn you that if your account is encrypted, you must take further steps to make these two passphrases match?

Also, what command would I use to change my "ecryptfs" password to manually match my session password?

Thanks

---

### Post by km0r3 on 2010-03-10
Hey mmillman,

I've found a [bug report over at launchpad]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ecryptfs/+bug/519029") similar/equal to yours, so this issue is already **known**.

Happy coding,

---

### Post by mmillman on 2010-03-10
Thank you...

Now, do you by any chance know how I can change BOTH of these passwords together so that I am not forced to keep my session password the same as it was the day I installed?  I'd like to change my session password but since it seems that I also need to manually change my encryption password (and I don't know how to do that, lol) I am kind of stuck with the old original password.

---

### Post by km0r3 on 2010-03-10
> **mmillman said:**
> Thank you...

Now, do you by any chance know how I can change BOTH of these passwords together so that I am not forced to keep my session password the same as it was the day I installed?  I'd like to change my session password but since it seems that I also need to manually change my encryption password (and I don't know how to do that, lol) I am kind of stuck with the old original password.

I've found this in a [ecryptfs tutorial]("http://bodhizazen.net/Tutorials/Ecryptfs/"):
> **Change your passphrase to mount your encrypted private directory or home**

 If you change your password you will notice the password to mount your encrypted directory is not updated. This is good news in that it keeps root from accessing your data simply by changing your user's password and logging in as your user.
 To change your passphrase, use ecryptfs-wrap-passphrase
 ecryptfs-wrap-passphrase ~/.ecryptfs/wrapped-passphrase
 You will need to enter your old password, then your new password.
 Now if you want you can write a Perl, Bash, Python, [put whatever you want] script to automate that, when updating your password that your ecryptfs password gets automatically changed. That's maybe 10 lines of code and a great learning experience, **but** I'm quite sure someone has *already* done that. I only say **Google is your friend**.

If you're a really cool guy and want to contribute to the great *ecryptfs*team, you could write a patch for that, if that's possible of course, so you may could help a lot of peoplewho have the same issue. :)

**I hope I could help you. Any questions? Ask.**

Tell us what you choose to automate that process, then. :)

**EDIT:** As you can read in the tuorial the "bug" seems to be no bug at all ;) I admit that that is strange, too.

---

### Post by mmillman on 2010-03-10
yeah... that broke it altogether... i can't even recover it the way i did last time...

---

