---
title: ".ssh and .gnupg"
date: 2018-12-26
forum: Security
---

### Post by mcyber4 on 2018-12-26
Hi
what apps create the .ssh and .gnupg folders in your home directory? Is that normal?
Thanks

---

### Post by The Cog on 2018-12-26
.ssh is created whenever you use your ssh client **ssh** to connect to another machine - it contains a list of known hosts so that it can recognise and warn you if a host you connect to again has changed (possibly being impersonated). **ssh-keygen** generates key files that you can use for making password-less connections to other servers. You can also create a file authorized_keys that contains a list of public keys that other computers can use to log into your accound without a password.

I am less familiar with .gnupg, but I believe it is associated with the file engryption utility **gpg**

---

### Post by mcyber4 on 2018-12-26
Thanks. So as I didn't use ssh or gnupg myself some script tries such on my pc? Hacked?

---

### Post by The Cog on 2018-12-26
Can't be sure. What files are in .ssh?

---

### Post by jdeca57 on 2018-12-26
On my laptop with a reasonably fresh install of 18,04 there is a .ssh but it's empty and there is a .gnupg dating from the installation so both hidden files aren't an indication that anything went wrong.

---

### Post by mcyber4 on 2018-12-28
Also /etc/cups has a ssh folder and subscriptions.conf are updated as root every login. 
And found .wget-hsts file without ever using wget.
Still all is fine? Thanks.

---

### Post by mcyber4 on 2018-12-30
reinstalled Ubuntu 18.10 only to find now in ~.pki folder. What is that? Thanks

---

### Post by corradoventu on 2018-12-30
my .gnupg contains only an empty directory
```
corrado@corrado-p6-dd-1227:~$ ls .gnupg -al -R
.gnupg:
total 12
drwx------  3 corrado corrado 4096 dic 27 13:27 .
drwxr-xr-x 17 corrado corrado 4096 dic 30 14:25 ..
drwx------  2 corrado corrado 4096 dic 27 13:27 private-keys-v1.d

.gnupg/private-keys-v1.d:
total 8
drwx------ 2 corrado corrado 4096 dic 27 13:27 .
drwx------ 3 corrado corrado 4096 dic 27 13:27 ..
corrado@corrado-p6-dd-1227:~$ 

```

---

### Post by mcyber4 on 2018-12-31
Yes but .pki and [LEFT][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntubeta] .wget-hsts[/FONT][/COLOR][/LEFT] are not normal. Where could the trojan be hiding in 18.10 as I've reinstalled that? Maybe 18.10 network code is infected&#8230;:frown:

---

### Post by mcyber4 on 2019-01-02
on my fresh 18.10 install in my .gnupg I have also a pubring.kbx and a trustd.gpg

---

### Post by mcyber4 on 2019-01-12
anyone else has 3 items in ~.gnupg with a fresh 18.10 or live cd?

---

### Post by mcyber4 on 2019-01-12
Never mind, I only got confused as the rootkit seems to kick in even with some saved files on onedrive. Looks like I have to trash all, including harddisks, (see my other threads) and have no recent backup.
The live cd only has one gnupg item which I've never used.

---

