---
title: "12.04 64 bit"
date: 2014-05-01
forum: Security
---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-05-01
hey guys not if this is the right place to post but I sold a computer to a friend and she can't seem to use libra its a different way to use then ms office something like the tab insert and open different applacations etc but anyways if I put virutal box and install xp on it and only put ms office for her schooling would she safe the internet they use is the hotspot from there cell phone data

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-05-01
> **gordie692 said:**
> hey guys not if this is the right place to post but I sold a computer to a friend and she can't seem to use libra its a different way to use then ms office something like the tab insert and open different applacations etc but anyways if I put virutal box and install xp on it and only put ms office for her schooling ***[COLOR=#b22222]would she safe the internet they use is the hotspot from there cell phone data[/COLOR]***

Not certain that I fully understand your wording which I changed the color in quote above - that stated.... 

[SIZE=4][B]Win XP is an unsupported OS and should NOT access the internet in any form or fashion.
[/B][/SIZE]

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-05-01
Find out if your friend's school requires submissions only in actual Office-only formats.  If so, don't install any Linux. Install Win 7/8.  Burn XP. Don't install it.  It is now a honey pot for criminal exploitation.

If LibreOffice can produce files in formats acceptable to the school, find out what is troubling her about it and help her learn to use it.

Meanwhile, consider the value punctuation can bring to your communications. :)

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-05-02
Libre Office provides the capability to save in multiple Microsoft Office formats - best choice is probably '97. Providing there's no editing required be receiver LO has export as pdf functionality.

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-05-02
Thanks guys

---

### Post by ant2ne on 2014-05-02
Tell her to get over her ignorance and learn Libre. jeesh

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-05-02
Thats what I told google it an learn I hate ms office libra much much better

---

