---
title: "Entire account is encrypted and inaccessible!"
date: 2010-10-20
forum: Security
---

### Post by insafeuste on 2010-10-20
Hey guys,
I've been using ubuntu for a few years now and have always been able to accomplish what I wanted (often with the help of other threads on this great site). Today though, I have reached a complete block and can't seem to find anyone with the same problem. I recently converted my girlfriend to Linux as her old Dell laptop was running quite slow in XP, and I opted for Lubuntu as I figured this lightweight distro would use less overhead on her machine. Everything was working fine for a few months until she comes back to me unable to access anything on her account. Only two files are now visible in her user directory "Access-Your-Private-Data.desktop" and "Readme.txt", each indicating that the directory is now encrypted. Running [COLOR=Red]ecryptfs-mount-private[/COLOR] through the terminal as suggested in the readme requires a passphrase that I have never set.. As a matter of fact, I don't remember ever setting encryption preferences during installation of the distro. After browsing around forums, I tried 
[COLOR=Red]ecryptfs-unwrap-passphrase ~/.ecryptfs/wrapped-passphrase[/COLOR]
but this gives me:
[COLOR=Red]error while loading shared libraries: libecryptfs.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory. [/COLOR]
Since I never set up a directory for this passphrase, I have no idea where it could be located. My girlfriend claims she never touched anything on the computer, just turned it on and everything was encrypted :confused:. At this point if it's impossible to regain access to the account we're hoping there's at least a way to recover some of her school work.. Any help would be much appreciated

---

### Post by bouncingwilf on 2010-10-20
Regretfully I know nothing of encryption mechanisms so can't help but I think one of the first questions should be "Did a third party get physical access to this laptop at any time?" i.e is there some sick joker out there?

Bouncingwilf

---

### Post by insafeuste on 2010-10-20
Well, I don't think we frequent anyone with enough linux knowledge to make this happen. She was saying the computer may have been abruptly shut off prior to this happening (battery is bad and the power cable might have come unplugged). Not sure how this could encrypt her home directory and lock us out though.. Does anyone out there know how to recover a ecryptfs password or bypass the encryption to recover some files?? I'm assuming if this was easy to do the encryption would not be very useful at protecting your data.. but I'm kind of at a loss as to what my next step should be.

---

### Post by scottuss on 2010-10-20
> **insafeuste said:**
> Well, I don't think we frequent anyone with enough linux knowledge to make this happen. She was saying the computer may have been abruptly shut off prior to this happening (battery is bad and the power cable might have come unplugged). Not sure how this could encrypt her home directory and lock us out though.. Does anyone out there know how to recover a ecryptfs password or bypass the encryption to recover some files?? I'm assuming if this was easy to do the encryption would not be very useful at protecting your data.. but I'm kind of at a loss as to what my next step should be.

This happened to me, although slightly differently. I changed my account password which is what caused me to get denied access to my stuff, and the shortcut and text document instructions appeared.

My solution was to use my old login password as the passphrase (perhaps this was used as the passphrase in your case also?)

Although nothing is truly perfect, using good keys means that encryption is uncrackable in practical terms.

I guess what I'm trying to say is, unless there's actually no encryption on there, or it turns out that you do know the passphrase after all, you're probably not getting into those files again.

---

### Post by insafeuste on 2010-10-20
Hey guys, I posted my problem in the Lubuntu subforum but feel this might be more suited here. My girlfriend has recently lost access to her laptop as her home directory is now encrypted.
Typing [COLOR=#ff0000]ecryptfs-mount-private [/COLOR][COLOR=black]prompts for a passphrase which I have never set and have no idea where to find. I've read that it may be possible to unwrap your passphrase using your login password, if you know the directory where your passphrase is saved. Since I never set up encryption in the first place, I have no idea what directory this may be.. Any ideas? [/COLOR]

---

### Post by insafeuste on 2010-10-20
I tried every possible password that can come to mind, including my regular log in pass.. but unfortunately they don't do the trick. I'm thinkin its an autogenerated string of characters created during the encryption setup.. which never took place on my end :confused:. Looks like I might have to give up and format so that we at least have a working machine.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2010-10-20
It should be the same as the login password.

---

### Post by insafeuste on 2010-10-20
Unfortunately my log in password did not work.. nor did any other password i could possibly think of. I'm afraid the passphrase was auto generated since i never configured encryption in the first place.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-10-20
It sounds like you checked the "encrypt my files" box when you installed, in which case, the password is whatever password you used when installing.  Since you say this is your girlfriend's laptop, I would think you want HER password, not yours.

---

### Post by insafeuste on 2010-10-20
Thanks for the suggestion. I was trying to convert my girlfriend to linux so I set her up on Lubuntu (lightweight since her laptop is a bit slow). So I'm the one who set up the install, user account/password etc. Her involvement and knowledge of the machine is limited to opening firefox/open office. BUT just for your sake we also tried every password she could possibly think of :P. Anyhow, she wants me to format and get her back on XP but has a bunch of schoolwork she needs to recover from that encrypted directory. Are there any methods of recovering the passphrase? Or perhaps any default  or hidden directories this might be saved to? I may be wrong, but I read it might be possible to unwrap the passphrase with my user login, if I can find where the file is. Thanks again..

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2010-10-21
I don't think there's anything you can do if she can't remember her login password. Unwrapping it still relies on knowing the login password.

---

### Post by insafeuste on 2010-10-21
Sorry if i'm being unclear. _I have the login password_, as that is the password i set when installing lubuntu. I am able to log on to the account and run commands as root through the terminal. I'm getting the sense that by default, the ecryptfs passphrase i am being prompted for to mount her user directory should be the same as the login pass, but _this is not true in my case_. Thanks for the suggestions. I think I'm just going to reinstall XP for her as she needs a working machine and she seems to hate the idea of linux now :rolleyes:.

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-10-21
Threads merged

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2010-10-21
What is the output of

```
apt-cache policy libecryptfs0
```

I'm also confused. Is there 2 accounts or 1? One for you one for her or just one?

---

### Post by scottuss on 2010-10-21
To clarify: If you have tried various passwords and these do not work, and the files are definitely encrypted, you're probably not getting back into those files.

There may possibly be a brute force dictionary tool that can attempt to guess the password, but to be clear: you can't just "un-do" the encryption without the password, or what would the point of it be?

---

### Post by insafeuste on 2010-10-21
Yea, if bypassing the encryption without a passphrase was easy i guess it would defeat the whole point of encrypting in the first place eh? Alright guys I think we're givin up and formatting because she needs a working machine. Thanks a lot to everyone who helped and offered suggestions.

---

### Post by damatta on 2010-10-21
Normally ecryptfs-unwrap-passphrase would retrieve your mount passphrase; the message with libcrypt is probably a clue. Have you tried to reinstall ecryptfs compeltely? Maybe something went wrong you are still able to recover with the login password.

---

### Post by insafeuste on 2010-10-21
the irony.. finally an answer that seems to point towards the right direction and I read it an hour after formatting the machine. I'm not sure if something went wrong when installing ecryptfs, as I never intentionally installed it. As someone mentioned, it's possible the box to 'encrypt my files' during installation had been checked. I'll definitely be keeping and eye out for that one in the future.. Thanks for all the help guys.

---

