---
title: "8.10 Lock Screen as Root does not.."
date: 2009-03-05
forum: Security
---

### Post by SlackBrane on 2009-03-05
I know I should not, and there may be another way, but I have had occasion to do things as Root having enabled it under the 'Login Window' rather than using my 'starter' account and Sudo.

Under the 'starter' account if I click on the/my username and 'Lock Screen' the display turns to black and then when I come back and waggle the mouse about then I am asked for my password.

If I am logged in as Root then clicking on 'Lock Screen' turns the display to black but when I waggle the mouse I am returned to what I was doing without being asked for a password.

I have applied a password to Root.

Shouldn't I be able to Lock a Root session, being slightly more dangerous, in the same way I can for a normal user?

Thanks

Keith

---

### Post by Nxion on 2009-03-21
YOu could do CTRL + ALT + L

This will lock the screen and activate the screen saver. It is similar to running Windows Key + L in Windows XP or Vista.

---

### Post by rootkea on 2013-05-04
> **Nxion said:**
> YOu could do CTRL + ALT + L
No. It doesn't work for root account. CTRL + ALT + L only works for non root user accounts.
Any other workaround ?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2013-05-04
Two things.

Ancient thread. Therefore closed.

The OP appears to have enabled the root account in order to log into a GUI as root. This is not supported here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1486138](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1486138)

> Our "line in the sand" is with tutorials or posts that show people how to LOG IN to a graphical desktop (gnome, KDE, etc) as root. This is completely inappropriate and unnecessary.


And by extension we do not support anything to do with functionality of a root owned GUI session. As the policy link says: "This is completely inappropriate and unnecessary."

---

