---
title: "20.04 how to log a user in without password"
date: 2021-06-27
forum: Security
---

### Post by steve234 on 2021-06-27
Morning security fans,

I've just upgraded to LUuntu 20.04, and would like my partner's user to login locally without entering a password like they could on 18.04.

Unfortunately:

[LIST=1]
[*]there is no option for passwordless login in lxqt-admin-user;
[*]Entering no password in lxqt-admin-user, doesn't&nbsp; help. An error is thrown, and the user cannot login at the prompt (login denied); and
[*]```
passwd -d username
``` results in the login being denied.
[/LIST]

All my searches for this issue seem to turn up the wrong thing (changing / recovering passwords, or setting up autologins for single users).

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-06-27
First a warning, if you upgraded from a LXDE release to LXQt without re-install, you may have extra issues existing that may take time to discover.  Almost all are *harmless* (menu items that don't work as you're no longer using LXDE, options that should work don't fully) though they still lessen the experience.  It was the reason the [Lubuntu team included the warning]("https://lubuntu.me/focal-2-released/")

> ***Note***, due to the extensive changes required  for the shift in desktop environments, the Lubuntu team does not support  upgrading from 18.04 or below to any greater release. Doing so will  result in a broken system. If you are on 18.04 or below and would like  to upgrade, please do a fresh install.

in releases after the introduction of LXQt with Lubuntu 18.10.

As for password less login with `sddm`, I'll refer you to [URL="https://github.com/sddm/sddm/issues/751"]https://github.com/sddm/sddm/issues/751
[/URL]
*I hoped to include more, but got side-tracked and didn't complete testing what I was going to suggest..*

---

### Post by steve234 on 2021-06-27
> [COLOR=#000000]if you upgraded from a LXDE release to LXQt without re-install, you may have extra issue[/COLOR] don't worry, I said upgrade, but it was afresh install.

Thanks I'll check that out. Is sddm the package that handles login (i don't know the exact terminology) on lububtu?

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-06-27
Yeah `sddm` is the greeter used by Lubuntu (18.10 up).  It's also used by Kubuntu...

If `sddm` doesn't do what you want, you could always replace it with another; eg. `lightdm` was used by Lubuntu in 18.04 and earlier, and I also tested `xdm` in relation to prior [issues]("https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/login-screen-flashes/1634/21") though I note another user (*in the thread I linked*) had issues with logins with `lightdm`.

(*I likely tested `xdm` far more anyway; as I recall it feeling like a time-warp; memory trip of logging in long ago..; the testing relating to a completely different issue; `sddm` misbehaving with certain graphic cards so looking for alternatives as a work around*)

---

### Post by steve234 on 2021-06-27
> If `sddm` doesn't do what you want, you could always replace it with another; eg. `lightdm` Thanks, Ive done the PAM workaround for the password, and reverted back to lightdm - sddm not remembering default sessions is a nightmare as I'm the only i3 user in the house

[minor issue] on login the screen flashes some garbled nonsense / black and white bars / odd bits of text briefly. It makes the computer look decidedly broken, but everything works fine. 

[LIST=1] 
[/LIST]

---

### Post by steve234 on 2021-06-27
Actually, scratch that lightdm was acting weird with resolution when switching users - GDM3 it is (which displays on the wrong monitor, but does everything else I need it to)

---

