---
title: "12.04"
date: 2012-07-16
forum: Security
---

### Post by gordie69 on 2012-07-16
I'm going to be running Ubuntu on my system and getting rid Windows can use Ubuntu for daily banking and personals or do I need to set something up. I know linux is not the same as Windows but just wondering if I can do that because I really Ubuntu runs smoother then Windows.

---

### Post by Laiquendi on 2012-07-16
It depends on you'r daily use. What for do you need your computer.
But it usually covers normal user usage of a computer.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2012-07-16
It depends on your surfing habits but for the most part Linux is problem free. I would suggest you read this [how to]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812") very carefully.

---

### Post by gordie69 on 2012-07-16
Just regular banking an browsing web sites for reading an learning

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-07-16
Run Ubuntu in Live sessions for a few days first.  It'll run slow because it's on the optical media.  If you think it interests you, dual boot (many tutorials are available).

After many years, I still use Windows, too.  The fact is that each tool serves its purpose and does things the other is not always suited to.

---

### Post by robtygart on 2012-07-16
Are you asking if there are banking programs or do you do your banking online from the banks website? 

There are programs, not sure what they are. 

All and all I would rather do banking with a Linux computer, since they are more secure, as long as you follow all the safety rules.

---

### Post by gordie69 on 2012-07-17
Thanks guys great site and great operating system just want to know getting rid of Windows and using Ubuntu for my personal Home and Banking was reading in the forum on enabling firewall but thought Ubuntu had a firewall or didn't need one. On this computer all I do is banking and facebook youtube and reading my forum sites so Ubuntu should be safer then Windows.

---

### Post by robtygart on 2012-07-17
You might want to read this Here is a link [BasicSecurity]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicSecurity")

---

### Post by gordie69 on 2012-07-18
thanks for the link and on the enable firewall do you install firewall and open it to enable so for the dum question

---

### Post by robtygart on 2012-07-18
> **gordie69 said:**
> thanks for the link and on the enable firewall do you install firewall and open it to enable so for the dum question

I am not sure I do not run a firewall, unless I was connecting to a public wifi or had Windows computers that I was protecting.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2012-07-18
[Here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1876124&highlight=sammiev") is a very good read on Firewalls.

---

### Post by gordie69 on 2012-07-18
So if I have Windows on another computer on my network do you guys recommend firewall or no

but thanks for the quick respond you guys are great love Ubuntu and the site

---

### Post by Hungry Man on 2012-07-18
No, your ports will still be closed. I see no real reason for it.

---

### Post by gordie69 on 2012-07-19
Thanks Hungryman you got my vote on Ubuntu Personal Computer for Banking I really starting hate Windows 7 with all this freezing crap I even use thunderbird in Windows and it still freezes but Ubuntu works awesome so you Ubuntu guys keep up great work you doing awesome.So if I want I could ripe out Windows and daul boot Ubuntu and another Linux so I can do some downloading on one and personals on other.

---

### Post by mwl128340 on 2012-07-20
i secong the dual boot. i do all banking and pretty much anything over the internet thru linux but you never know if youll need windows in the future. the only reason i still have windows is to program my harmony remote but you never if when youll need it.

---

