---
title: "ports 21, 110, 143 open?!?"
date: 2011-03-18
forum: Security
---

### Post by schlagle on 2011-03-18
I'm getting heat from the head networking office that ports 21, 110, and 143 are open. I can telnet to those ports from a remote machine (not localhost) and get a prompt. There does not seem to be anythng listening on those ports according to netstat. I've tried uising iptables to discard all traffic to a from those ports but I can still telnet to them.

This is a lucid desktop machine.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by brian_p on 2011-03-18
> **schlagle said:**
> 
Any ideas?

What are the outputs of

```
dpkg-l | grep telnet
```

and

```
sudo lsof -i :<port number>
```

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-03-18
Given those ports, are you running an FTP server (vsftpd, proftpd) or Dovecot?  The first is the FTP port and the latter two are POP3 and IMAP email delivery.

When you say you telnet and "get a prompt," what kind of prompt?  For instance, if I telnet to port 143 on my server running Dovecot, I get

* OK Dovecot ready.

If you see prompts like that, you definitely have servers running on the machine.  If you try to telnet to an inactive port, telnet will reply with "Connection refused".

---

### Post by EJeanmaire on 2011-03-18
You'll probably want to reconfigure your mail service and ftp service to localhost only, or remove them.

---

### Post by pricetech on 2011-03-18
I think you misread something.  They're not saying telnet is on 23, just that they used telnet, which basically doesn't care what it connects to, with a port number to check for servers running on the machine.

But yes, 21 is FTP, 110 is POP and 143 is IMAP, meaning that those 3 servers are running on the machine.

---

