---
title: "I think bastille locked down my /etc/passwd"
date: 2009-04-13
forum: Security
---

### Post by scign on 2009-04-13
I am running Ubuntu 2.6.24-23-server on a VM, itself running on a WinXPPro SP3 box, 2.5GHz 2GB RAM.

I ran the standard bastille (1:2.1.1-18) script on my Ubuntu box with sudo.

The script asked about lots of things from root privs on some commands, through restrictions on cron, to ports to lock down. There was nothing about permissions on configuration files in the script. After I answered all the questions and selected "Yes" to run with the selections, a whole bunch of errors came up on the screen to the tune of "ERROR: System is not running a stable Debian GNU/Linux version. Setting to 4.0". The screen was scrolling fairly rapidly so I couldn't get much more except I managed to get a screenshot.

[http://aleem.mine.nu/images/bastille_errors.jpg](http://aleem.mine.nu/images/bastille_errors.jpg)

After that, whenever I login I get the following after the usual login blah blah:

```

No mail.
id: cannot find name for user ID 1000
id: cannot find name for user ID 1000
I have no name!@box:~$

```

I also get the following error from exim:

```

Exim configuration error in line 641 of /var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated:
  user mail was not found

```


From posts in other forums I figured that it could be the permissions on passwd, group and/or shadow. So I tried the following:

```

I have no name!@box:~$ls -l /etc/passwd /etc/group /etc/shadow
-rw-r--r-- 1 644 root    973 2009-02-25 22:47 /etc/group
-rw------- 1 644 root   1718 2009-04-08 23:01 /etc/passwd
-rw-r----- 1 644 shadow 1343 2009-02-25 22:47 /etc/shadow

I have no name!@box:~$sudo chown 644 /etc/passwd /etc/group /etc/shadow

I have no name!@box:~$ls -l /etc/passwd /etc/group /etc/shadow
-rw-r--r-- 1 644 root    973 2009-02-25 22:47 /etc/group
-rw------- 1 644 root   1718 2009-04-08 23:01 /etc/passwd
-rw-r----- 1 644 shadow 1343 2009-02-25 22:47 /etc/shadow

I have no name!@box:~$sudo lsattr /etc/passwd /etc/group /etc/shadow
------------------ /etc/passwd
------------------ /etc/shadow
------------------ /etc/group

```

I need to get exim working and I have a feeling the login id error is closely linked.

Do I need to reset the permissions on those three files?

If so, why won't the above work given that the immutable flag isn't set on any of them?

If not, what else can I try to get my mail back?

If you need any further information, please let me know and I will try to provide it.

Thanks in anticipation, people!

scign

Sometimes I feel like this!
[http://aleem.mine.nu/images/25-im-going-home.jpg](http://aleem.mine.nu/images/25-im-going-home.jpg)

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2009-04-13
Hmm, don't run lock down scripts like Bastille if you still want to change stuff.  In my experience the only way to undo Bastille is to re-install Ubuntu.

Good luck!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-13
Just out of curisiosity is **I have no name!** the username on your computer? As Linux has a problem dealing with spaces in names. It sees the **I** as the username and ignores the rest.

Jim

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-04-13
read Bastille's documentation. I seem to remember there's some kind of undo or roll-back option. Some docs suggest there are backup copies of the files that Bastille modified in /root/Bastille/undo/backup


you probably made a wrong choice somewhere while setting up Bastille, eg answer only 'root' for 'which users are allowd on this system', or something along those lines.

---

### Post by scign on 2009-04-13
Dammit I am so sorry people

I was using CHOWN to try and change permissions!! GRR!!!

To be fair, nobody here picked that up either, even though the user and group as per ls was 644:root!! ;-D

CHMOD did the trick (duh) and I remembered to change the user back from 644 (!) to root  :-)

Thanks for trying, people!

---

