---
title: "10.04 ssh unusable"
date: 2010-10-29
forum: Security
---

### Post by KenDowns on 2010-10-29
I've been using ssh for about 10 years without trouble, also with no trouble on Ubuntu 8.04 for past two years.

Have just upgraded two boxes to 10.04 and now ssh is unusable. I can SSH from box 1 to 2, but if I do anything more than "ls" the term freezes.

Have tried this by doing CTRL-ALT-F1 to go to pure text, and in an xterm from desktop.  Same results.  This is pure out-of-the-box install for both boxes, have done nothing exotic except install a few packages.  This happens on an account whose home directory was copied from an 8.04 box, and also on a new account created through users and groups.  

Symptoms:

1) executing any program such as vim, nano, etc. freezes screen
2) executing "cat" freezes screen, though oddly enough "more" works

I've tried adding "export TERM=xterm-color" to .bashrc, and yes I'm in /bin/bash, this gets vim up on the screen (but not cat), which works until I hit any arrow or page up/down keys, and then it hangs again.

Any help appreciated, tia

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-10-29
Sounds like it's a problem with the terminal, not with SSH.

Have you tried it with the terminal without installing anything after doing a clean install?

---

### Post by msandoy on 2010-10-30
I think you have to remove all personal settings from your previous install, try removing all hidden config files and settings folders from your home folders. Old settings can give you strange results.

---

### Post by KenDowns on 2010-10-30
> **CharlesA said:**
> Sounds like it's a problem with the terminal, not with SSH.

Have you tried it with the terminal without installing anything after doing a clean install?

This seems likely, if you mean the client machine terminal.  This morning I tried going to the server box and shh'ing into itself, account a -> a, then a -> b, and so on, and had no issues.  I then ssh'd into the server from a Windows box running Putty, also no problem.

So I'm going to try a fresh account on the source 10.04 box, that should give me a clean slate, and see what I get from there.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-10-30
It definitely sounds like a problem with the client you were connecting from, if it works from the server console and from Putty.

---

### Post by msandoy on 2010-10-30
If you find the problem with the client, please post it. I'd like to know what caused this behavior. :-)

---

### Post by KenDowns on 2010-10-30
> **CharlesA said:**
> It definitely sounds like a problem with the client you were connecting from, if it works from the server console and from Putty.

Well, I'm stumped.  Here's what I've established.  

Box "C", the client, the problem box
Box "S", the server
Box "W", a windows Box

Box "W" to "S", with putty, fine
Box "W" to "S", Ubuntu live-cd on "W", fine
Box "W" to "C", Ubuntu live-cd on "W", fine

Box "S" to itself, fine, even layering up and criss-crossing accounts

Box "C" to "S", no good with installed Ubuntu 10.04
Box "C" to "S", no good with LIVE CD !?!?!?  

Yeah, so I booted into the Live-CD on the problem client, box "C", and it can't ssh in properly to "S" that way either, but the Windows box can.

So could hardware actually be affecting it?  Have never heard of such a thing and would not know where to begin.

---

### Post by mainerror on 2010-10-30
> **KenDowns said:**
> So could hardware actually be affecting it?  Have never heard of such a thing and would not know where to begin.

Are other networking operations affected too?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-10-31
> **mainerror said:**
> Are other networking operations affected too?
If you are having other networking problems, I'd definitely say that it's a hardware problem.

---

### Post by msandoy on 2010-10-31
If there has been resent events of lighning in your area, there might be a problem with your network card. In your case, I would try installing a known good network card into your client. A PCI network card is very cheap, and quite handy to have laying around for troubble shooting.
Edit: you can test your switch first, by moving the cable to another port.

---

### Post by motobuzz on 2010-11-01
I'm experiencing a similar issue and I have opened a bug at Launchpad [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssh/+bug/669443](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssh/+bug/669443)

---

### Post by mainerror on 2010-11-01
> **motobuzz said:**
> I'm experiencing a similar issue and I have opened a bug at Launchpad [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssh/+bug/669443](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssh/+bug/669443)

I have tried to reproduce it but for me everything works just fine. What network adapters do you both have?

---

### Post by KenDowns on 2010-11-01
> **CharlesA said:**
> If you are having other networking problems, I'd definitely say that it's a hardware problem.

Only one other network problem, but I did not put 2 and 2 together.  Thunderbird could not seem to read email off the same server I was having trouble ssh'ing into.  But the web was fine (as far as I could tell) and so I assumed the hardware was fine.  Anyway, starting with...

THE RAMBLING PREAMBLE:

This box is a couple of years old, and only had Ubuntu 8.04 before.  When I bought it I needed 1 Gig Ethernet at the time, because it was a server.  It also had on-board 100MBps Ethernet, which I never disabled, just put in another card.  Forgot all about that until one of the drives went belly-up a couple of weeks ago. Since it became my personal workstation a year ago, and since I had the box open I happened to notice the two ethernet connections and thought, "oh yeah, i remember that" and then promptly forgot again, which leads us to...

THE IMPORTANT PART:

I moved the ethernet out of the added 1 Gig card and plugged it into the onboard, and now ssh is usable and behaving normally.  Internet seems a bit faster, but that could be auto-suggestion.  To test it I turned on Tor (cuz that's always slower) and it really does seem faster, but who knows.

Before that I tried disabling the onboard and sticking with the 1Gig, but that did not work.  Also tried plugging the 1Gig into another port on the switch, and that did not work.

Here is the output of lscpi -v:

01:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 01)
    Subsystem: ASRock Incorporation Device 8136
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 26
    I/O ports at d800 [size=256]
    Memory at feaff000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
    Expansion ROM at feac0000 [disabled] [size=128K]
    Capabilities: [40] Power Management version 2
    Capabilities: [48] Vital Product Data <?>
    Capabilities: [50] Message Signalled Interrupts: Mask- 64bit+ Queue=0/1 Enable+
    Capabilities: [60] Express Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [84] Vendor Specific Information <?>
    Kernel driver in use: r8169
    Kernel modules: r8169

03:01.0 Ethernet controller: Sundance Technology Inc / IC Plus Corp IP1000 Family Gigabit Ethernet (rev 41)
    Subsystem: Sundance Technology Inc / IC Plus Corp IP1000 Family Gigabit Ethernet
    Flags: bus master, 66MHz, medium devsel, latency 32, IRQ 22
    I/O ports at e800 [size=256]
    Memory at febffc00 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=256]
    Expansion ROM at f0600000 [disabled] [size=64K]
    Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
    Kernel driver in use: Sundance Technology IPG Triple-Speed Ethernet
    Kernel modules: ipg


Card eth0 is the one that works properly, and I can see that eth0 is the Realtek by looking at ifconfig and matching the IRQs:

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:19:66:50:7c:a4  
          inet addr:192.168.1.53  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::219:66ff:fe50:7ca4/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1492  Metric:1
          RX packets:8066 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4826 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:5949547 (5.9 MB)  TX bytes:869826 (869.8 KB)
          Interrupt:26 Base address:0xc000 

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:06:4f:49:69:d3  
          inet6 addr: fe80::206:4fff:fe49:69d3/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:11 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:2178 (2.1 KB)
          Interrupt:22 


I woul
THE HAPPY ENDING

...and suddenly Thunderbird reads email from that server just fine.

I would not have thought such a thing possible.  I figured a card either worked fine or failed spectacularly, I would not think it could work just well enough to drive you crazy.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-01
Sounds like that onboard nic was going out. Glad you got it working now. :)

---

### Post by KenDowns on 2010-11-01
> **CharlesA said:**
> Sounds like that onboard nic was going out. Glad you got it working now. :)

Well actually it was the onboard NIC that works in 10.04.

Just for the fun of it I rebooted to 8.04 and the add-in card, which does not work in 10.04, worked fine in 8.04.

Therefore I do not believe it is a hardware issue, but a driver issue.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-01
> **KenDowns said:**
> Well actually it was the onboard NIC that works in 10.04.

Just for the fun of it I rebooted to 8.04 and the add-in card, which does not work in 10.04, worked fine in 8.04.

Therefore I do not believe it is a hardware issue, but a driver issue.

That makes sense then.

---

### Post by KenDowns on 2010-11-01
> **motobuzz said:**
> I'm experiencing a similar issue and I have opened a bug at Launchpad [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssh/+bug/669443](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssh/+bug/669443)

Tagged the bug "NIC" and "DRIVER" and added a note to the bug.

---

