---
title: "24.04 and entra id logins"
date: 2024-05-16
forum: Security
---

### Post by petersunkel on 2024-05-16
Hi,
I recently installed Ubuntu 24.04 LTS to try out support for Entra IDs.  I managed to log in with one of my Entra IDs but everything is very slow responding and I usually need to click things twice before they open.  When I log in with a local user everything is fine.

In the Entra sign-in logs I can see that the logins are marked as 'interrupted' because of multi factor authentication.  I never see any MFA prompts when logging in on Ubuntu and the login is actually successful.

Any advice on my two issues?  I'm still learning Ubuntu and Entra, so please be gentle ;-)

Thanks,
Peter

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-05-16
I looked up Entra - seems to be some sort of LDAP for Microsoft stuff.  I fear you won't get many responses here, since we tend to use Linus for decentralized LDAP.   There are a few cross-platform guys that might respond, if you are lucky. I tolerate MSFT stuff and never try to deploy anything new using it. When possible, I replace MSFT stuff.

I suspect you'll get better help from a MSFT-centric forum, however.

---

### Post by schroeffu on 2024-05-21
> **TheFu said:**
> I looked up Entra - seems to be some sort of LDAP for Microsoft stuff.  I fear you won't get many responses here, since we tend to use Linus for decentralized LDAP.   There are a few cross-platform guys that might respond, if you are lucky. I tolerate MSFT stuff and never try to deploy anything new using it. When possible, I replace MSFT stuff.

I suspect you'll get better help from a MSFT-centric forum, however.

AFAIK Canonical is working on EntraID/AzureAD Integration. You'll find from time-to-time new blogposts from Canonical about this, e.g. [https://ubuntu.com/blog/azure-ad-authentication-comes-to-ubuntu-desktop-23-04](https://ubuntu.com/blog/azure-ad-authentication-comes-to-ubuntu-desktop-23-04)
For business it's one of the highly requested feature. 

I'll also going to test this new EntraID SSO for Ubuntu as soon as possible.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-05-21
Linux integrations with other OSes provides more choice is great!  I haven't touched MS-AD (or their CALs) since 2008.

On Ubuntu, we've has NIS, NIS+, and LDAP since before there was an Ubuntu.  It is a big embarrassment that Canonical hasn't made those integrations cleaner and that their isn't an Admin GUI that handles it.  Why isn't every Ubuntu Desktop asked which LDAP server to point at for login credentials at every install?  Embarrassing.   If there are 2+ ubuntu systems on a LAN, then it should be very easy to have centralized login management for all the systems there that doesn't require paying MSFT a penny.

---

