---
title: "Ub 10.10 Gui login screen question"
date: 2011-01-26
forum: Security
---

### Post by trying_it_out on 2011-01-26
Hi
I have 2 user names on my 3 day new load of Ubuntu, one admin, one user. Everything is running good, as usual. One day I go to log in and I notice that my user names have changed position on my login screen list. Should I be concerned? Other than the default software I have VirtualBox 4.0(Oracle) 1 VM, & all current updates installed.No problems observed.

Any suggestions...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-01-26
On my systems, user names are in alphabetical order, by default.

---

### Post by kevinthecomputerguy on 2011-01-26
I rebooted mine (4) times, all still in alphabetical order.
Any special \ odd characters in the name?

---

### Post by trying_it_out on 2011-01-26
Yes,thats what I thought. I just tried something else as follows;

I took a laptop that previously had 10.04 loaded, removed the data then wiped the partitions. I then loaded and configured Ub 10.10. I called my admin account A, and created another user (non admin) B.
My observations were as follows.

- upon finish loading from LiveCD I restarted(suggested after initial load)
- upon restart I logged into admin -A (using password) and created user B.
- upon shutdown-bootup I logged in(using password) to B account.
- configured B account - logged out - shut down
- upon bootup - Gui login menu user B was on top??? Basically switched places

Now - I went a step further - I applied all updates - and a after reboot A was on top, and B was listed second.

Please keep in mind my other system, which I initially wrote my first post about - went through all these steps and everything was just fine for 2.5 to 3 days. Then I went to login from the Gui and bango It had changed and reversed itself - Pretty strange if you ask me! - At this point is when I decided to ask for assistance...

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2011-01-27
From: [http://library.gnome.org/admin/gdm/2.30/gdm.html#facebrowser](http://library.gnome.org/admin/gdm/2.30/gdm.html#facebrowser)

> The Face Browser is configured to display the users who log in most frequently at the top of the list. This helps to ensure that users who log in frequently can quickly find their login image.

---

