---
title: "8.10 ftp encryption question"
date: 2010-01-06
forum: Security
---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-01-06
Im running ubuntu 8.10 and i have an ftp server all set up with the users jail'd and all that stuff. What im wondering is, is an ftp server set up using vsftpd just as secure as one with sftp? I would really hate to have to start all over again as i have spent a while setting this all up. Im mainly concerned about the traffice encryption.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-01-07
No of course not.  With ordinary FTP, everything is in plain text including the login process, meaning that your user names and passwords pass in clear over the wire.  A simple tcpdump will reveal all.  With SFTP everything is encrypted, the data transfer and the login process.

So ordinary FTP is only a good idea over a LAN configured with 802.1Q VLANs.

---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-01-07
thats exactly what i thought, but why do i keep reading that vsFTPd is so secure?

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-01-07
I don't know where you read that but perhaps they just mean that it's secure against software vulnerabilities, bugs, buffer overflows etc. I don't know if it is or not but the ftp protocol is inherently insecure, just as telnet and pop/smtp email. These are all legacy protocols that have much more secure replacements now. People still use ftp because it's an old habit, it integrates well with browsers, and has anonynmous user support. Stuff like that - certainly not for any application that needs security. Any account login that you use over ftp should be considered at throwaway level importance.

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2010-01-07
BkkBonaza has it: the individual *program* is secure, within the context it is used, but the *protocol* is not.  Passwords and data that go over FTP should be considered public.  

FTPS is FTP wrapped in [SSL](http://www.sindark.com/2009/02/21/the-ssl-strip-exploit/)

SFTP is a different protocol altogether.

---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-01-07
Alright thanks, thats what i was looking for.

next question. What do you guys suggest i do, try and add SSL to my server or just scrap it and start fresh with SFTP?

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2010-01-07
> **Tsquad said:**
> Alright thanks, thats what i was looking for.

next question. What do you guys suggest i do, try and add SSL to my server or just scrap it and start fresh with SFTP?

@ Tsquad : obviously my recommendation would be the latter: scrap it and start fresh with SFTP.  The main reason is that it is built in to openssh-server, which you probably already have running.  

If you want pointers on doing chroot'd directories or prevent shell access, describe your use-case scenario.  Those are easy, too, but are not the default setting.

---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-01-07
Well heres the deal. I just started using linux, the ftp server was the first server i had in mind i wanted to try out. This is mainly for my experience/fun. But i still want it to be secure just in case i decide to use it for something important. So i dont have openssh-server that i know of. I did not install it that is. And yea any ponters or even a guide/webpage that could help me through the settup would be nice.

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-01-08
I believe it's installed by default on the server version of Ubuntu, but if not then it's very easy to install,

sudo apt-get install openssh-server

and then a fairly quick bit of configuring. There's quite a few tutorials around on that and how to optimize the security. It's a very useful tool for any type of server admin.

---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-01-08
> **BkkBonaza said:**
> I believe it's installed by default on the server version of Ubuntu, but if not then it's very easy to install,

sudo apt-get install openssh-server

and then a fairly quick bit of configuring. There's quite a few tutorials around on that and how to optimize the security. It's a very useful tool for any type of server admin.

im running the desktop version, assuming the procedure is the same for both?

---

### Post by kevdog on 2010-01-08
Yes the procedure is the same for desktop and server editions.  You should be able to get the openssh server up and running in minutes, however I would consider adding a rate limit login step to your built-in iptables so that if one particular ip address starts blasting away at your address, if for example after 5 successful tries, it automatically is denied access to authenticate for 1 hour.  Their are other ways to harden your ssh install (acl = access control lists) -- it just depends on what your needs are.

---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-01-09
> **kevdog said:**
> Yes the procedure is the same for desktop and server editions.  You should be able to get the openssh server up and running in minutes, however I would consider adding a rate limit login step to your built-in iptables so that if one particular ip address starts blasting away at your address, if for example after 5 successful tries, it automatically is denied access to authenticate for 1 hour.  Their are other ways to harden your ssh install (acl = access control lists) -- it just depends on what your needs are.

well in this case my needs are mainly knowledge to the more complex the better, but in time lol. Its good to know of these things so i can plan to do them in the future.

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-01-09
There are a number of additional steps you can take after installing openssh-server to improve security. I wouldn't call them highly critical but after you get setup and confident with your use of ssh they are good to put in place.

There are various hardening tutorials on the web. The basic steps involve editing your /etc/ssh/sshd_config file and are fairly easy to setup. Google around for a tutorial but if you don't find a good one then let me know and I'll list some basics here.

---

