---
title: "12.04 running DNSMASQ by default"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Security
---

### Post by haqking on 2012-04-28
in 12.04 dnsmasq is now running by default due to being hardcoded into network manager.

Potentially bad idea ;-) (ever heard of DNS cache poisoning or MITM attacks ?)

[12.04 Release Notes]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuDesktop")

5th Bullet Point.

Its built into Network manager now. 

Running a local DNS caching server where your resolver is localhost or 127.0.01 may speed up DNS resolution but may also pose potential security risks.

You may do the following to disable it if you dont want it used, though it doesnt appear it to be caching by default (you can test with the dig command)


so


```
sudo nano /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```

(the above is case sensitive so capital N)

and comment out the

```
dns=dnsmasq
```

line then do a 


```
sudo restart network-manager
```

Peace

---

### Post by Dangertux on 2012-04-28
*shakes head*

Yeah...Umm I am a little disappointed in this, all I can say is that Canonical was on drugs with this one. 

That's good advice haqking

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-04-28
I'm not really sure why they decided to do this anyhow, seeing as DNS lookups are pretty quick to begin with and most web browsers prefetch and cache addresses.

Thanks for the workaround, haqking.

---

### Post by mdeslaur on 2012-04-28
Dnsmasq is running with caching disabled. There is no security risk.

---

### Post by Dangertux on 2012-04-28
> **mdeslaur said:**
> Dnsmasq is running with caching disabled. There is no security risk.

Source on this?

EDIT : Nevermind found one for you : [http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/](http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/)

If that is the case -- then I have had my faith slightly restored, though I still think it was a stupid move. There are other issues with dnsmasq *cough* TFTP/pxe...

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-04-28
> **Dangertux said:**
> Source on this?

EDIT : Nevermind found one for you : [http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/](http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/)

If that is the case -- then I have had my faith slightly restored, though I still think it was a stupid move. There are other issues with dnsmasq *cough* TFTP/pxe...

Saw it mentioned here:

[http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/](http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/)

It's at bullet number 5 in the page Haqking linked to.

EDIT: Ninja'd me. :p

---

### Post by mdeslaur on 2012-04-28
If you believe there are other security issues with the use of dnsmasq, please file a bug detailing the issue and the exact attack scenario. Thanks.

---

### Post by josephmills on 2012-04-29
after reading this 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltsp/+bug/955785](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltsp/+bug/955785)
and 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/959037](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/959037)

I wanted too take it down as it is a ugly hack and there is movement all ready

---

### Post by yodermk on 2012-04-29
Thanks. Upon upgrade I could not resolve DNS at all with this.  I had previously configured unbound for local DNS to get by stupid Time Warner's NXDOMAIN hijacking.  I was scratching my head trying to figure out how to stop dnsmasq from starting.

---

### Post by Ms. Daisy on 2012-04-29
> **Dangertux said:**
> Source on this?

EDIT : Nevermind found one for you : [http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/](http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/)

If that is the case -- then I have had my faith slightly restored, though I still think it was a stupid move. There are other issues with dnsmasq *cough* TFTP/pxe...
OK, so help out us humans that don't really understand the details of  how DNS cache poisoning or MITM attacks are carried out.  Have you downgraded the threat level based on that link? Or is it still significant enough that everyone should implement the workaround?

---

### Post by josephmills on 2012-04-29
[qu

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-04-29
Dnsmasq listens only on the localhost interface, so port 53 is not exposed to external hosts.  However a scan of the localhost interface with nmap will show the port is open.  This has already caused a [couple of folks]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1967131") to be concerned about security.

This (and the use of resolvconf) is a rather major change in how Ubuntu handles DNS resolution, and one that has yet to get widespread attention.  Be prepared to see more queries about this in the weeks ahead as 12.04 becomes more widely disseminated.

I simply stopped dnsmasq from running (with "sudo service dnsmasq stop") then removed it entirely with apt-get.  I use a hand-written resolv.conf file that points to other DNS servers on my network, so pushing all the queries through dnsmasq on localhost wasn't appropriate for my configuration. (Frankly, I think that only a small fraction of users will find the changes in 12.04 beneficial, but that's a separate issue.)  I also removed the "dns=dnsmasq" line from NetworkManager.conf as haqking suggests.  I found that simply commenting out the line with a hash mark wasn't sufficient to keep resolvconf from rewriting my resolv.conf file.  I had to delete the line entirely.  YMMV.

---

### Post by wacky_sung on 2012-04-29
Actually i have disable it through the network manager since it is kinda buggy for me to use for my OpenVPN. Thus i do agree as long as dnsmasq does not cache and it is pretty much okay with it.

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-04-29
OK so it would seem now i am sober...LOL

So on here [https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-p-dns-resolving](https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-p-dns-resolving)

The caching issue has been discussed on the whiteboard.

However as already stated there has been a few questions rose about it already and i imagine a few to come where people scan there own machines and see port 53 "open" such as this thread here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1967131](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1967131)

At least we now know the workarounds and potential issues should more posts arrive on the subject.

Peace

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-04-29
Thanks for finding that link, Haqking.

---

### Post by Ms. Daisy on 2012-05-10
I'm still not clear on what this means for the average user. Does anyone  know how to determine what the potential security problems are?  Or how  to assess my risk as an average user?  

I have googled for an answer but the only concerns I have found are in  this thread (which has been copied to a bunch of places with no  additional discussion beyond what's here).

The only detailed discussion I have found on the subject is here (also  copied in several other places), which simply states that the  implementation has changed:
[http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/](http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/)

All the remaining sources that discuss dnsmasq in 12.04 only state that  it has changed.  I haven't found any discussions in the security  community about concerns with DNSMASQ in 12.04.  I have no idea where else to look for details about potential problems associated with DNSMASQ in 12.04 or how to determine what the threat level is for me as an average user.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-05-10
So far it doesn't really cause a security issue because it's not caching, but it does cause other sorts of problems with DNS from what I (and others) have seen around the forums.

---

### Post by Ms. Daisy on 2012-05-10
> **CharlesA said:**
> ...but it does cause other sorts of problems with DNS from what I (and others) have seen around the forums.
Thanks CharlesA.  To be clear, you've seen non-security related issues, correct?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-05-10
> **Ms. Daisy said:**
> Thanks CharlesA.  To be clear, you've seen non-security related issues, correct?
Yep.

---

### Post by computeratin on 2012-05-11
The discussion here is dead on point on some questions I had in two other threads. This is 1000% dif than the way you tinker with DNS resolution in doze.
 
I'm trying to acheive two things:
 
1) ***_ALL_*** DNS resolution going through OpenDNS.org.
 
2) Managing a suscritpion to a VPN service with multiple servers.
 
Should I disable / rm dnsmasq?
 
wacky_sung, could you elaborate a little on the VPN issue? My subscription is compatible with any open VPN client. I opened another thread asking for rec's on a good client / GUI. But, what are the bugs under the hood in regards to DNS resolution?
 
I know where / how to plug OpenDNS in to doze. But no idea where / how to plug it in to UB. And all the stuff I'm finding in my research is related to setting up a network to use your own DNS server rather than setting up a desktop to use a remote DNS server.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-05-11
Just disable DNSMASQ and tell the machine to use opendns's servers either via dhcp or by setting them statically in /etc/network/interfaces

---

### Post by confused57 on 2012-05-11
I was wondering about DNSMASQ being enabled by default with dd-wrt on my WRT310N v2 router.  I mainly installed dd-wrt due to the WPS vulnerability of the linksys firmware, which the linksys site says any firmware upgrade to correct the vulnerability is TBD for my router.
I realise this would probably best be posted in the dd-wrt forum, but my question is would it present any problems to set DNSMASQ to "disable"?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-05-11
> **confused57 said:**
> I was wondering about DNSMASQ being enabled by default with dd-wrt on my WRT310N v2 router.  I mainly installed dd-wrt due to the WPS vulnerability of the linksys firmware, which the linksys site says any firmware upgrade to correct the vulnerability is TBD for my router.
I realise this would probably best be posted in the dd-wrt forum, but my question is would it present any problems to set DNSMASQ to "disable"?
If you are using dnsmasq on your router, it has nothing to do with dnsmasq being run on the client (pc).

On DD-WRT routers dnsmasq is used for dhcp and local dns resolution and shouldn't be disabled.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2012-05-11
> **CharlesA said:**
> If you are using dnsmasq on your router, it has nothing to do with dnsmasq being run on the client (pc).

On DD-WRT routers dnsmasq is used for dhcp and local dns resolution and shouldn't be disabled.

Thanks, I'll leave it enabled.  I've read that dnsmasq is responsible for dd-wrt assigning random ip numbers, instead of sequentially as the linksys firmware does.  I believe I can assign a static ip address, using its mac, to the Ubuntu computer with the printer attached that I use over my local network.  I was mainly concerned with any security issues, thanks again.

---

### Post by mdavids on 2012-05-14
This setup seems to conflict with rdnssd. Maybe RDNSS/DNSSL (RFC6106) should also be implemented in NetworkManager, so we no longer need rdnssd?

It would also be nice if dnsmasq would become a DNSSEC validator, than we can do DANE.

BTW; dnsmasq has a little bug. It doesn't quite understand the OPT record. I described it here:

[http://www.sidnlabs.nl/laatste-berichten/nieuwsdetail/article/dnssec-problemen-in-thuis-routers/](http://www.sidnlabs.nl/laatste-berichten/nieuwsdetail/article/dnssec-problemen-in-thuis-routers/)
(but that is in Dutch)

To go short: dnsmasq is counting down the TTL and erroneously also does  that in the OPT record, thus overwriting the Z-field, turning the MBZ (must-be-zero) value of 'dig' into something other than... zero.


--
Marco

---

### Post by lisanels47 on 2012-05-20
Great!  
dnsmasq has kept me from using 12.04 as clients on my ldap network.  Strange results with dnsmasq.  Like bad dns response, then if you ping by address the same dns request, the following dns resolution is correct.... silly.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-05-21
> **lisanels47 said:**
> Great!  
dnsmasq has kept me from using 12.04 as clients on my ldap network.  Strange results with dnsmasq.  Like bad dns response, then if you ping by address the same dns request, the following dns resolution is correct.... silly.
At least you can disable it.

---

### Post by lisanels47 on 2012-06-18
Personally, I just don't need dnsmasq running.  So by commenting out the line mentioned AND removing the package resolvconf, things work fine.  Now I can once again do a 'cat /etc/resolv.conf' and verify my dhcp settings.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-06-18
> **lisanels47 said:**
> Personally, I just don't need dnsmasq running.  So by commenting out the line mentioned AND removing the package resolvconf, things work fine.  Now I can once again do a 'cat /etc/resolv.conf' and verify my dhcp settings.
You don't even need to remove the resolvconf package - commenting out dns=dnsmasq is sufficient.

---

### Post by DanteDarkKnightDante on 2012-07-03
> **CharlesA said:**
> You don't even need to remove the resolvconf package - commenting out dns=dnsmasq is sufficient.

That's not true I too tried to only comment out dns=dnsmasq and it didn't work. I then removed it totally still, didn't work. It wasn't until I removed the resolvconf package that it worked. So, I don't think commenting out dns=dnsmasq alone works in ALL cases.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2012-07-03
> **DanteDarkKnightDante said:**
> That's not true I too tried to only comment out dns=dnsmasq and it didn't work. I then removed it totally still, didn't work. It wasn't until I removed the resolvconf package that it worked. So, I don't think commenting out dns=dnsmasq alone works in ALL cases.

You do have to either check resolvconf and maybe even configure it.  You can just comment out the dns=dnsmasq in MOST cases.  If resolvconf has not been configured correctly, then you will have to configure it or as you say, remove it and configure /etc/resolv.conf.

I'm running 12.04 with no Network_manager, but with resolvconf.

---

### Post by Marcelo Ruiz on 2012-07-09
In my case DNS resolution was working on and off randomly, in a clean 12.04 install. It was driving me nuts.
I do have my wireless DNS servers set manually to 208.67.220.220, and 208.67.222.222 in Network Manager.
Issuing:
```
dig askubuntu.com
```
would not return any IP address.
But:
```
dig askubuntu.com @208.67.220.220
```
always work.
After commenting out dns=dnsmasq in NetworkManager.conf and restarting it with
```
sudo restart network-manager
```
the situation was the same. Erasing that line and restarting Network Manager wouldn't change the situation. After rebooting the computer the computer won't resolve any address, and dig will show the DNS request was made through 127.0.0.1 (which was weird).
Anyway, the only way I found to solve the situation was removing and purging resolvconf with:
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge resolvconf
```
and restarting Network Manager. The only drawback is that it also removes ubuntu-minimal.
Now 
```
dig askubuntu.com
```
always work and the system is using OpenDNS in each call.
I can't believe the developers didn't test the name resolution properly before releasing a 12.04 LTS.
Anyway, I'm willing to try other solutions, but in the meantime this is the only way my computer works.
I hope this is useful for someone else.
Cheers!

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-10-29
> **Marcelo Ruiz said:**
> I can't believe the developers didn't test the name resolution properly before releasing a 12.04 LTS.

Ubuntu 12.04 DNS has been well tested and generally works well. Problems with DNS are almost always traceable to broken third-party software, to badly configured images downstream from Ubuntu, and to administrator-inflicted damage.

---

### Post by edeion on 2013-07-03
Thank you Marcelo ! I had given hope to solve my DNS problem and removing resolvconf solved it.

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-07-03
If you can't figure out how to configure resolvconf then you can disable it by removing the symbolic link at /etc/resolv.conf and putting a static file there. Even then it's usually best to leave the resolvconf package installed, since the mere presence of the resolvconf package causes several other packages to refrain from futzing with /etc/resolv.conf.

---

