---
title: "13.04: Why is my openssl not upgraded?"
date: 2014-04-11
forum: Security
---

### Post by triplej2 on 2014-04-11
Can someone tell me why my openssl is not upgrading?

```

#>lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 13.04
Release:	13.04
Codename:	raring

#>apt-get update
#>apt-get dist-upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Calculating upgrade... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

#>openssl version -a

OpenSSL 1.0.1c 10 May 2012
built on: Wed Jan  8 20:51:55 UTC 2014
platform: debian-amd64

```

[SIZE=5]**OpenSSL 1.0.1c 10 May 2012**[/SIZE]
[SIZE=5]**built on: Wed Jan  8 20:51:55 UTC 2014**[/SIZE]

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-04-11
Hello!

13.04 reached End Of Life in January 2014.  It is no longer supported, so you are not getting any updates.

You might try installing 13.10 for the time being or installing 14.04 a little early.

Best wishes.

---

### Post by triplej2 on 2014-04-11
Thanks, I guess I have to do a release upgrade. Odd that Ubuntu would not offer an upgrade for a lib, for something this big. Convienent

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-04-11
If this is a production server, you should only run LTS versions for exactly this reason.  Heck, RedHat and CentOS 6.5 still run kernel 2.6.32 with backported modifications precisely because people who run servers value stability and support over cutting-edge features.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-11
> **triplej2 said:**
> Thanks, I guess I have to do a release upgrade. Odd that Ubuntu would not offer an upgrade for a lib, for something this big. Convienent

The definition of support is that bug fixes are released. From here you can derive that an unsupported version does not get fixes. 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu_(operating_system)#Releases](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu_(operating_system)#Releases)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2014-04-12
> **triplej2 said:**
> Thanks, I guess I have to do a release upgrade. Odd that Ubuntu would not offer an upgrade for a lib, for something this big. Convienent

It's not really odd, that's what the end of support means - no updates.

---

