---
title: "Trojan horse in Ubuntu?"
date: 2009-02-13
forum: Security
---

### Post by Ionosphere on 2009-02-13
A couple of days ago I noticed that whenever I type in a phrase in the address bar in firefox without .com or .net, etc., it started directing me to wsearch as opposed to using Google I'm Feeling Lucky search. At first I thought it was my provider as they've done a similar thing once before (I use Rogers), but my roommate does not have the same problem. So I did some reading on it and it seems to be a known malware called DNS Changer. However according to the information I've found on it, it only targets Windows and Mac, and it requires for a user to actually download and attempt to install a codec from a pornographic site which I haven't done. So I was wondering whether anyone else has encountered this before and knows how to solve it.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-02-13
Maybe just change your DNS?

[https://www.opendns.com/start/device/ubuntu](https://www.opendns.com/start/device/ubuntu)

---

### Post by yther on 2009-02-13
If it's only happening in Firefox, I'd suggest temporarily removing your profile ($HOME/.mozilla/firefox/[random].default) by renaming the folder.  FF should then start up with clean settings, no extensions unless maybe there are some system-wide ones.  The usual place these things get lodged in is user-specific, so eliminating your profile is a good place to start, but just rename it, don't delete it yet.

Then fire up Firefox and test.  If the problem is gone, then I'd say bring in your bookmarks and stuff from your previous profile.  If it's not... then I'd be stuck.

I know it's possible for user styles and scripts to become "infected" by stuff like this, and it does happen to people from time to time.  Sneaky sites will get their ads on supposedly trustworthy sites like Reuters, and then people with permissive settings get infected automatically.

I'd recommend installing NoScript and AdBlock Plus before any other add-ons; proper use of those (especially NoScript) can help prevent further infections.

---

### Post by Ionosphere on 2009-02-13
I tried. Didn't make a difference. My DNS is set up on the router because Rogers started redirecting us to yahoo search a while back, so both my roommate and I use the same DNS, yet it's only me that's having the problem.

---

### Post by Ionosphere on 2009-02-13
Firefox is the only browser I currently have so I'm going to install Opera and see whether the same thing happens there. If it doesn't, then your advice should work.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-02-13
It is most likely a browser attack.

Install noscript and adblock ;)

---

### Post by Ionosphere on 2009-02-13
I just checked it on a freshly installed version of Opera and it seems to be doing the same thing, so the problem seems to go a little deeper. Also, I've never used adblock, so I'll install it right now but I've always had NoScript.

---

### Post by yther on 2009-02-13
> **Ionosphere said:**
> I just checked it on a freshly installed version of Opera and it seems to be doing the same thing, so the problem seems to go a little deeper. Also, I've never used adblock, so I'll install it right now but I've always had NoScript.

Wow.  In that case, I think ugm6hr's suggestion of (maybe temporarily) changing your DNS would be another good troubleshooting step.  Another idea would be booting up from a LiveCD and testing; if it still happens then the only commonality I can think of would be your in-house networking equipment, maybe connected to your network card's MAC address somehow.  It's a stretch, though.

I've also heard of "DNS poisoning," but I'd think it would affect all machines on your network (possibly all of your ISP's network) and not just one.

---

### Post by brian_p on 2009-02-13
> **Ionosphere said:**
> 

So I was wondering whether anyone else has encountered this before and knows how to solve it.

It's not unknown to people here:

[http://www.dslreports.com/forum/r20650476-503-Errors-and-redirects-to-wsearch-on-Rogers-wireless](http://www.dslreports.com/forum/r20650476-503-Errors-and-redirects-to-wsearch-on-Rogers-wireless)

There is a work around given. Does it work for you?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-14
Have you checked /etc/resolv.conf it should look something like this:

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain aplus
search aplus
nameserver 64.59.168.13
nameserver 64.59.168.15
```

aplus is just my internal metwork, if there is anything else in the file remove it.

Jim

---

### Post by dplecto on 2009-02-15
Just noticed I am running in the same problem.

My ISP is bresnan and search engine being used from location bar is search.bresnan.net - happens to all my broswers - firefox, galeon, epiphany and opera. Tried running them as another user using a clean default firefox profile and still same ****. Doesn't make sense - my nameservers are all good - However, in my other computer the search engine is google - both using WinXP and backtrack. All of these systems have the same DNS servers nothing different.

It makes no sense at all - Is something going on in my ubuntu box ? My firewall log doesn't show much - there used to be a bunch of DNS request (port 53 ) blocked. I am in a open wireless network - my apartment complex gives us open network - hate it but can't afford to get my own.

Incidentally, I was getting this error: ```
E: dpkg was interrupted, you must manually run 'dpkg --configure -a' to correct the problem. during my updates
```. I managed to fix it after a lot of trial and error.

I am going to revert to my backup system and start running checks on all my binaries and config files when I have time - not anytime soon 'cause too many exams.

Has anyone found or thought of some solutions ??

Hate to think the system might be hacked - spent too much time securing it up.

---

### Post by Ionosphere on 2009-02-17
I tried the guide suggested by brian_p, but that didn't work out as I seem to have a different modem and I couldn't change anything on it. So I went onto my router setup and changed the last digit of my IP and it actually worked.
As for your problem dplecto, it might be something a little different. Try changing your DNS. If that doesn't work, you should call your provider and ask them about it because it seems like something they did intentionaly.
Oh, and good luck with exams!

---

### Post by matteojg on 2009-02-17
The problem is probably with the router used by the building...do other tenants who use the open wlan experience the same issue? 

I piggy back on a neighbor's wlan at home, and when doing so sometimes the same redirection happens to me...but when I use the wireless at my neighborhood cafe or library this never happens.

This of course means there is no malware installed on your system that is the cause of this problem.

---

