---
title: "Email virus?"
date: 2011-09-12
forum: Security
---

### Post by timbo59 on 2011-09-12
Hi there,
               I need some help with what appears to be some kind of virus or other that has invaded the old MSN account I use for secondary posts &#8211; the main one I use is still secure, the MSN is one I use for riskier sites that could either generate spam or nasty crap like what I've been hit with. Problem is that MSN used to be our Internet provider till 7 - 8 years ago, when we switched ISP's, but it still has a record of everyone I ever contacted back in those days and since then, and ALL of them are being bombarded by fake emails being generated on this account, and I don't know how to stop it.  
 

 I'm usually very security conscious and haven't had issues with any kind of bug for 10 years &#8211; last time I got hit was when my wife, working on an Apple computer, sent me an email from work that she was having trouble opening. As it was from my wife I fell for the three card trick and opened it on my Windows-based PC &#8211; hey presto, I got slammed with the Love virus, which decimated my picture files and mp3's.  
 

 This time around I don't know how I got hit, though I suspect it was one of two sources. Firstly, an acquaintance started sending me emails, and when I opened the first one it was all gibberish, and I figured he'd been hit by something that had attached itself to his email system and was spouting out similarly infected emails to people on his email list. No problem, I thought &#8211; I'm on Linux! But the last of those emails was two weeks ago. The other aspect is the point that my wife and I have been selling a number of items on Craigslist of late, and we've been getting hit by a lot of emails that either contain a catalogue of unconnected verbiage (like random words drawn from a dictionary) or terse little notes vaguely expressing interest which never elicit a response when I reply to the inquiry. 

 

 What's at the root of the problem is that I've been running a Linux-based system for the last 10 months or so, and don't have any viral software on board because I'd always believed that it was a very secure platform for a number of reasons, not least because I'd read that the bad guys don't target Linux, preferring Windows due to it being a far larger and target rich environment top have fun with. My Windows-based systems have always had virus protection (usually Norton, though I recently tried Kaspersky as well) and would have picked up any nasties in the emails. With Linux they've obviously passed through due to my naivety and misunderstanding of the vulnerabilities.  
 

 Question is, where is this thing resident, and what can I do about it? Is it on board my PC, or resident at MSN's server in my email account? This thing is targeting people I haven't been in touch with for 8 years, yet I've only had this PC for a couple of years and switched it over to Linux 10 months ago. I thought it must have slipped past Linux on to the PC, yet 2 &#8211; 3 times a day I get on to check the MSN account and find a host of 'email rejections' being bounced back at me which I assume are anti-viral programs protecting the majority of the people on my secondary email data bank.  Has this thing simply nabbed the full list of people who've been emailed on that MSN account and stored the details elsewhere, meaning that I no longer have any control over people being bombarded by my old email address? Is it being generated by my PC? Or is it being generated on MSN's server, regardless of whether I'm logged in or not?  
 

 Lastly, do I have any reason to be concerned about credit card accounts or bank details? I figure this is just an annoying 'chain mail' type bug that simply seeks to keep passing itself on, but I'm not sure and haven't tried accessing financial services online since I became aware of the problem today.
 

 Times like this I wish I could take a baseball bat to the idiots who pull crap like this. I should probably hit myself over the head with it at the same time for being lax via the notion that Linux made my system largely bomb proof to the bad guys.


If someone could guide me through this I'd appreciate it, as I particularly feel bad for the people being bombarded by this account, especially those who might themselves get infected.



Thanks........Tim

---

### Post by Dangertux on 2011-09-12
Honestly, I hate to give you this short of a response after that very long exposition...

However, I don't really think your Linux system was compromised, most likely the password on your email account was though. Have you considered changing it to something strong, at least 16 characters containing uppercase, lowercase, numbers, special characters and white spaces. And observing the results.

As far as Linux viruses go, I really hate to be the one to say it in this thread, there really isn't anything to scan for. However , if you'd like to scan anyway just to have some peace of mind you can check out ClamAV at the link below.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ClamAV](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ClamAV)

EDIT : Also, login credentials can be harvested in a variety of ways. I recommend using NoScript addon for Firefox or NotScripts extension for Chrome. It will help cut down on any stolen credential issues via malicious websites.

---

### Post by timbo59 on 2011-09-13
That was my first thought, but honestly, I don't think that's it. 

Firstly, my password on that account is pretty secure, but regardless of what I use, I think one of the bogus emails I received may have trawled it when I opened/responded, in which case it wouldn't be relavent how convoluted the password is - it would be sent on. My first thought was to access the account and change the password, but I want to be sure where I stand before I do so. Also, I would have thought that anyone accessing the account directly would have changed the password in order to gain control of the account and prevent me from correcting the intrusion.

Secondly, if they had simply hacked into my email account there'd be a trail of all the emails bombarding everyone in the 'sent' folder - I looked there straight away. Apart from a couple of emails that seem to have been generated to my brother's old work account and a few of others, there's no trail at all - yet I know that a host of people are receiving emails purportedly from me each and every day. So dozens of emails are being sent out every day with my email address attached, but seemingly not from my actual account. What I am seeing though is all those received postal error messages I mentioned in the previous post. I should point out that this activity seems to be going on even when I'm directly on the email account - I had it up yesterday, and as I was flitting backwards and forwards doing some work I saw that I'd received another 20 error messages in response to these emails going out. Again, there was nothing in the sent folder to indicate that any activity had taken place.

Also, my father-in-law, who is very security conscious due to running a web-based business from home, claimed that his analysis of the situation seemed to indicate that the emails purporting to be from me are emanating out of Argentina. 

Lastly, I actually asked both my in-laws (they're on Apple computers) if they'd actually opened the emails, and they said they had. Apparently the content was some crap about cheap knock-off's for Rolex's or something along those lines, with a 'click here' facility. I'd never respond to such a note, so it was not how all this started from my end.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-09-13
> **Dangertux said:**
> Honestly, I hate to give you this short of a response after that very long exposition...

However, I don't really think your Linux system was compromised, most likely the password on your email account was though. Have you considered changing it to something strong, at least 16 characters containing uppercase, lowercase, numbers, special characters and white spaces. And observing the results.

As far as Linux viruses go, I really hate to be the one to say it in this thread, there really isn't anything to scan for. However , if you'd like to scan anyway just to have some peace of mind you can check out ClamAV at the link below.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ClamAV](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ClamAV)

EDIT : Also, login credentials can be harvested in a variety of ways. I recommend using NoScript addon for Firefox or NotScripts extension for Chrome. It will help cut down on any stolen credential issues via malicious websites.

+1

change passwords to be more secure, it is a server side MSN issue IMO not a local machine issue

Linux does not suffer from Viruses like other OS, there are no known viruses in the wild, the main reason using AV on linux is to scan incase you share files with windows users.

It can still suffer from trojans, rootkits etc, but that comes down to vigilence and making sure you stick to the security model and not disabling passwords or enabling root etc.

Common sense, dont tell your system you want it to do something unless you are sure etc. Linux assumes you know what you are doing ;-)

In browsers you can still suffer from XSS or CSFR, other script related issues so use things like NoScript plugin for firefox, Ad-block etc.

[B]See here for Anti-Virus information:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_malware](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_malware)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Antivirus](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Antivirus)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Linuxvirus](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Linuxvirus)
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/security](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/security)[/B]

See below for Bodhi.Zazen's overview of Linux Security

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812)

and check th

Then these stickies:
security stickies (5 stickies)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=338](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=338)

Also see about sudo and why root account is disabled by default in Ubuntu:

sudoers file
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Sudoers](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Sudoers)

rootsudo
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

You might also want to look at Tor for anonymizing your connection:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tor](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tor)

Firewalls are not generally needed on a home desktop machine as that is taken care of by your router however there is a hardcoded firewall in Linux called Netfilter/IPTables and can be configured by reading here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159661](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159661)

Though most people if use anything use UFW/GUFW which is a interface for managing IPTables without the complicated command line. see here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW)

Also look at apparmor for profiling your applications and there privelege:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AppArmor](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AppArmor)


Have fun

Regards

haqking

---

### Post by Grenage on 2011-09-13
Assuming that the mail actually came from your account, it's *far* more likely that the account was compromised - as has been said.

Can Linux viruses exist? Sure.
Do Linux viruses exist? Apparently.
Are Linux viruses in the wild? I have never seen, nor know of someone who has seen it.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-09-13
> **Grenage said:**
> Assuming that the mail actually came from your account, it's *far* more likely that the account was compromised - as has been said.

Can Linux viruses exist? Sure.
Do Linux viruses exist? Apparently.
Are Linux viruses in the wild? I have never seen, nor know of someone who has seen it.

+1

All Linux Viruses that do exist are mainly POC, and if a new one came into the wild it would be patched pretty quickly, and before that AV definitions wouldnt detect it anyways ;-)

---

### Post by Azdour on 2011-09-13
Hi,

I'm not sure how relevant this is but...

About a few months ago I received a large amount of bounced emails. Emails to address that no longer existed - none of which I had sent out. My problem was that the email account in question was publically findable on the Internet.

To the best of my knowledge anyone can send out as anyone, what they cannot do is fake the origination of the email e.g. the email server that sent it. As you said in your email the email headers told you that the emails originated in Argentina which I'm guessing is the email server used to send out the emails.

Spammers can use bots to scour the web for text that looks like email addresses and create lists from them.
These lists of course will contain email addresses that are no longer working. Working email addresses are probably worth more to the spammer.

Does craiglist display email addresses? If so, I would not put it past the spammers to email those addresses using social engineering to try and get a response. They may have been targeting many addresses from craigslist and social engineered a vague enough email about items you have put on the site. If you respond they know they have a live email address.

I'm not saying you have not been compromised and it's always a good idea to change your password as a safety precaution, but as explained above there are other factors that could be at work here.

---

### Post by timbo59 on 2011-09-13
I'm going to go back to the account and change the password, then see how it progresses from there. 

Given that this is an old account I use for less secure areas, or sites which may sell it on and generate a ton of spam, someone eleswhere may have been compromised and thus the email address itself became available for abuse without the actual account being hacked. Changing the password should isolate that issue I guess. As I mentioned, an old acquaintance starting sending me bogus emails that contained garbage, so perhaps that's where my email address got tapped. What Azdour describes seems to mirror my own situation.

I'm also going to get one of my purported emails sent to me to see what return address is showing.

@Azdour. At the time, did you have the same situation of a sent folder that showed no activity, despite all the bounced messages and people telling you they were receiving emails from you? What was the end result - did a change of password stop the activity, or did they just keep on going till it eventually petered out?

I haven't opened any of the bounced messages for fear of perpetuating the issues - should I try to take a look, or leave them alone? I thought that would be the quickest way of finding out what's being generated and what actual addresses are being used.

I'm going to have to rethink my attitude to Linux, in that I'm making assumptions which may lead to further trouble. On Windows I sit behind maxed-out firewalls, anti-virus software, and an attitude that I NEVER open anything (after my Love virus experience) unless I'm absolutely sure what I'm getting and it's been passed as clean. With Linux I've taken a rather smug free and easy attitude which, as some of you guys have pointed out, might not necessarily be warranted in certain situations such as server-side operations. 


Thanks.......Tim

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-09-13
If the mail has your MSN address as the From, but it's not being sent from MSN's own servers, you're the victim of a "[joe-job]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_job")."  Ask a computer-savvy recipient of one of these messages to expose the complete set of headers in the message.  The "Received" headers report every machine that touched the message from origination to receipt.  If the originating server really is in Argentina, then your address is being forged as the From.

If the recipients all come from your contacts list on MSN, that suggests your account on MSN may have been compromised.  If it were me, I'd suck down all the messages and contacts and close the account.  Unfortunately there's little or nothing you can do about the current rash of spam.  Typically it will stop soon when the spammers move on to another victim.

Another possibility is that somebody else with your MSN address in his or her contacts list was infected by some malware that shipped the list off to some spammer.  In this case your address was just selected randomly to be the From with the rest of the stolen contact list as the recipients.  

I seriously doubt the problem originated on your Linux machine, especially since you report getting suspicious messages from known correspondents.  Much more likely is that one of those correspondents was compromised, and you're the unfortunate victim in the scheme.

---

### Post by SparTacux on 2011-09-13
I think you need to get hold of one of those emails supposedly sent from you and have a read of the email source. There'll be some IP addresses listed in that source file. Check these IP addresses using Ubuntu's whois or use an online Whois web site and see if they originate from an MSN server or somewhere else.     Another option is to logon to your MSN email account and look for a mail forwarding option and see if you can send copies of your MSN mail to another of your email accounts. That way you will be able to determine if they are coming from your MSN account. Worth a shot

---

### Post by Azdour on 2011-09-13
Hi

@timbo59 - there was nothing in the sent folder because they were not logging into that hotmail account to send from. As SeijiSensei says they were forging the From field with my email address (something that is easy to do), but sending out the fake email from another server hence nothing in the sent folder. When an email is undeliverable it automatically bounces back to the From field which is why all of sudden I received lots of bounced replies.

I did change my password immediately and I monitored the account. I never received any more bounces so I was lucky, otherwise I would have had to ditch the account.

It's very easy to get your email address into the wild especially on some forums and websites.

I concur with what SeijiSensei says.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-09-13
> **Azdour said:**
> Hi



It's very easy to get your email address into the wild especially on some forums and websites.
.

Only if you put them there ;-)

Only use throwaway emails and the like for such actions.

---

### Post by timbo59 on 2011-09-13
Hi Azdour - I figured that's what you'd say, I just wanted to be sure. Seems we both share the same problem then.

It is a throwaway account more or less these days, mainly so that spam stays away from my main account. It's just that 6 - 7 years ago it wasn't, so a bunch of people I knew back then are getting annoyed. Most of the people close to me use my main account. I direct Facebook to the secondary account as well, as that site can be a pain in the butt with every man and his dog wanting to link to your contacts there, and Facebook constantly requesting to hook into your email list. Couldn't get much more invasive! And in case anyone asks, no, I don't list any personal information there - until recently I didn't even use my real name!

Well, let's see what happens over the next few days. Thanks for all the feedback guys, much appreciated. 

Tim

---

### Post by Dangertux on 2011-09-13
What SeijiSensei said is a possibility, however. In this particular case since it was users from your "contacts list" I don't believe that is the case.

Also -- it can be deleted from your sent items. Just a thought. I would change your password if you are noticing the emails are being sent to people on your contacts.

Also for what SeijiSensei said to occur there have to be very specific conditions on the email server. While I would like to believe that MSN wouldn't be that "behind the curve" I can certainly see it being a possibility.

---

### Post by timbo59 on 2011-09-13
Okay, for anyone who's curious I got headers and message forwarded to me by one of 'my' recipients. This is the content of the message - 

Dude! You will be delighted! It&#8217;s the best shop I&#8217;ve ever seen! sadatmusic.comXXX/friend  invite.php?syfriend= 

i added the X's and removed the last four alphanumeric characters of the link to safeguard anyone from using it. I did a search on Sadatmusic.com and it doesn't exist - at least as any kind of online store front. Also, isn't the latter half of the link (the PHP part) some kind of Facebook link?

---

