---
title: "14.04 libreoffice will not open"
date: 2015-05-08
forum: Security
---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-05-08
do you know an easy way to get libreoffice writer to open? am running ubuntu 14.04. System did an update and I clicked tab to run advanced repair. It said one SMB file failed.

I would think there is a terminal apt get that would correct this but I cannot find a way to solve this. 

Would a removal and new libreoffice writer download fix this? was okay till 11 pm yesterday



 Need a solution.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-05-08
I see SMB/CIF  failure but get no way to solve it

please help. i cannot figure out what to ask for.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-05-08
from 2002 - 2015 I've never simply clicked on an icon for word processing [libreoffice writer] and not be able to select a file or to begin a new file. The icon responds as if it is going to open then goes dead allowing no work to be done. 

dumb founding. can you tell me how to test this or solve the problem.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2015-05-08
I wonder if it's trying to access something on a remote share that's not reachable.
You could try remaning the folder ~/.config/libreoffice (which contains all your personal settings for libreoffice).
Beyond that, I have no ideas.

To rename the libreoffice settings folder:
```
cd ~/.config
mv libreoffice libreoffice-backup
```
To restore the backup again:
```
cd ~/.config
[ -d libreoffice-backup ] && rm -rf libreoffice && mv libreoffice-backup libreoffice-backup
```
That last command checks that the backup directory exists before removing and replacing the current settings directpory.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-05-09
Hello The Cog, I opened terminal and did the first and the second cd ~/.cinfig as follows; is this how I should have proceeded?  
ken@ken-System-Product-Name:~$ cd ~/.config
[email]ken@ken-System-Product-Name:~/.config[/email]$ mv libreoffice libreoffice-backup
[email]ken@ken-System-Product-Name:~/.config[/email]$ cd ~/.config
[email]ken@ken-System-Product-Name:~/.config[/email]$ [ -d libreoffice-backup ] && rm -rf libreoffice && mv libreoffice-backup libreoffice-backup
mv: cannot move &#8216;libreoffice-backup&#8217; to a subdirectory of itself, &#8216;libreoffice-backup/libreoffice-backup&#8217;
[email]ken@ken-System-Product-Name:~/.config[/email]$

The Cog: I got into a file. Great. Looks like renaming is an exact solution.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2015-05-09
Good. I'm an idiot and got the renaming back wrong. (althought you probably don't want to as it seems something in those settings is causing your problem). The rename comand should have been:
```
cd ~/.config
[ -d libreoffice-backup ] && rm -rf libreoffice && mv libreoffice-backup libreoffice
```

If you enable showing hidden files in your file manager (use the menu or press Ctrl-H) you will be able to see the .config folder and its contents. You can rename (or delete) the libreoffice folders that way.

---

