---
title: "Question about ssh public keys on server"
date: 2012-05-31
forum: Security
---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-05-31
I want to have two or three clients on my LAN with access to my OpenSSH server on Ubuntu. Two of these are Mac OSX, one is Win 7 using Putty. I already have one of the Macs set up and accessing my server using the generated key.

My question is, does each client have to use the same private/public key pair, or can each one generate its own and copy each public key to the server host?

Tim

---

### Post by markbl on 2012-05-31
Cat each public key into the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys file for the server user/account each person wants to log in as. That file can contain multiple public keys.

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-05-31
> **markbl said:**
> Cat each public key into the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys file for the server user/account each person wants to log in as. That file can contain multiple public keys.

Thank you.

Tim

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-06-02
Later - It was a pain to get the public key generated by PuttyGen into a format that works with OpenSSH server, but not too difficult after finding instructions to do so.

Why on earth does PuttyGen create a key that is not usable? Beyond that, why do they make you search for the instructions to fix it instead of just telling you in their docs?

Anyway, I have it fixed.

Tim

---

### Post by stlsaint on 2012-06-02
Please mark thread as solved.

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-06-02
> **stlsaint said:**
> Please mark thread as solved.

Sorry. I thought I had already done it.

Tim

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-06-02
> **ratcheer said:**
> Later - It was a pain to get the public key generated by PuttyGen into a format that works with OpenSSH server, but not too difficult after finding instructions to do so.

Why on earth does PuttyGen create a key that is not usable? Beyond that, why do they make you search for the instructions to fix it instead of just telling you in their docs?

Anyway, I have it fixed.

Tim
I have always generated the keys on the server and converted them to putty keys instead of the other way around.

---

