---
title: "10.4 allows you to access Win partition without password"
date: 2010-05-23
forum: Security
---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-05-23
I have a dual boot machine and recently did a fresh install of 10.4.   It no longer asks for a password to access the Windows partition and I full access to it.  This seems insecure to me and was wondering if someone else came across this.  I thought I saw this topic discussed before but I can not seem to find it now.

 Is this a bug or a new unpleasant feature? 

I don't think it makes a difference but I do have a separate encrypted home partition on this fresh install.  I have also done two fresh installs.  (Well three...once testing out KDE but didn't try the Win partition. )

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-05-23
It's a new feature?

Linux ignores Windows permissions, that is how it has always been. What's the problem?

---

### Post by Jive Turkey on 2010-05-23
If your windows partition was set up at install time it will have been added to the /etc/fstab file.  If you comment the line out with a "#" or delete it you will need sudo permissions to mount it agian.  This might acheive the effect you are looking for.  You could also tweak the user/group permissions for your users to limit the ability to read or write on it or to mount volumes.  Depending on your windows version you could limit access to file contents with encryption in windows as well.

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-05-23
> **CharlesA said:**
> It's a new feature?
Linux ignores Windows permissions, that is how it has always been. What's the problem?

With version 9.4 and 9.10 I needed to enter a password to mount the windows partition. With 10.4 I just clicked on the partition and have access to it.  Would rather have it set up so you need to enter a password to access it.


> **Jive Turkey said:**
> If your windows partition was set up at install time it will have been added to the /etc/fstab file.  If you comment the line out with a "#" or delete it you will need sudo permissions to mount it agian.  This might acheive the effect you are looking for.  You could also tweak the user/group permissions for your users to limit the ability to read or write on it or to mount volumes.  Depending on your windows version you could limit access to file contents with encryption in windows as well.


This might be it.  I am not on my 10.4 machine but I will check it out a little later.  In 9.4/9.10 I had to enter the password to access it, with 10.4 I just had access.  Thought this was a little odd.
Thank you and I will take a look at that machine a little later and let you know.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-05-23
It's probably added to fstab then.

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-05-23
The windows partition is not in the fstab file.

```
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda2 during installation
UUID=12fb7e01-1c7f-4368-aeb4-63ccd2fe676c /               ext3    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /home was on /dev/sda4 during installation
UUID=e484bf3-df8c-4b92-923d-6a4542dc234a /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/sda3       none            swap    sw              0       0

```

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-23
I noticed this as well. I can access my Fedora12 partition without being prompted.

But if booted in Fedora it asks for a password to mount Ubuntu. :confused:

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-05-23
I've played with numerous distros and versions, and have always had full control of my hard drive without entering a password.

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2010-05-24
> **gordintoronto said:**
> i've played with numerous distros and versions, and have always had full control of my hard drive without entering a password.

+1

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-05-24
That might be true, but on 9.4 and 9.10 I had to enter a password to mount the Windows partition.  With 10.4 I don't have to enter a password.

---

### Post by mahela007 on 2010-05-24
I have the same issue

---

### Post by cdenley on 2010-05-24
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9207234&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9207234&postcount=4)

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-24
Thanks cdenley, worked like a charm. :)

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-05-24
I knew I saw it somewhere before but I was obviously looking with the wrong search terms.  Thank you for posting that.

---

