---
title: "12.04 forced me to encrypt my home"
date: 2012-07-09
forum: Security
---

### Post by kainalu on 2012-07-09
Hey all,

When installing 12.04, my checkboxes for requiring a password and encrypting home were forced on by greying them out while selected. I really am having some performance and IO problems on my top end machine here, and would like to know how to reverse this monstrosity of a problem. Any ideas on how to unencrypt my home without arcane dark arts or reinstalling my machine?

---

### Post by kainalu on 2012-07-09
Hello All,

In dire need of rescue here. Nobody knows how to reverse Ubuntu encryption? Please help if possible. I would hate to lose this OS.

---

### Post by ortermagic on 2012-07-09
I would suggest downloading a new iso onto a usb flash drive from the Ubuntu main download site and reinstall it. 
 I had loads of problems last year after encrypting my home folder, only to lose everything, due to a problem I had with the unity/compiz crash syndrome.
Oh well, life goes on.... be patient.

---

### Post by kainalu on 2012-07-09
Thank you for taking the time to respond.

Unfortunately this is a work machine...

Taking it down for days at a time to reinstall it several times and hope for the best is NOT an option. This machine has been down for the better part of a week with this bug. I need to fix this without anything that has the words "reinstall" or "format" in them. If this is not possible, Im sure Debian or (shudder) Windows does not typically force me to encrypt everything I own. 

This machine is haning in IOwait, and there should be a way to reverse this mess. I will assume that if it forced me to encrypt the folder the first time, it would again. If it picked a different key, or re-encrypted the files twice, I could lose my files, yes?

NOT an option

---

### Post by Hungry Man on 2012-07-09
Maybe create a new partition for /home/ and move the decrypted data there? I can't find anything - honestly, Linux disk encryption is way behind other OS's. It's disappointing. It doesn't look like there'll be an easy solution for this.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-07-09
I have never used encryption, and never had Ubuntu force me to use it. But it is one of the first choices now that you check, but it is not checked by default. If you have a version that does I would assume it is a bad download.

You should be able to mount your encrypted /home and move the data to an unencrypted partition. Then use that as your new /home.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedPrivateDirectory/#Live_CD_method_of_opening_a_encrypted_home_directory](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedPrivateDirectory/#Live_CD_method_of_opening_a_encrypted_home_directory)

Once you have your data copied to a new partition then it is just like any new move /home to another partition.

To move /home uses rsync  
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving)

---

### Post by kainalu on 2012-07-09
Thank you for your replies.

I have already taken several directories out of the encrypted home folder and mount -o bind 'ed them back to their respective mount points. This has lessened IO considerably. The largest problem appears to be when I handle thousands of small files.

@oldfred
If I should take my old home completely out with this method and replace it with a new one, what additional steps would be required to prevent Ubuntu from continuing to assume it is supposed to be encrypted, and encrypting further files? Also will there be a problem at boot when Ubuntu attempts to unwrap my home and there is nothing to unwrap?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-07-09
All the encrypted data is in a . folder in /home.  If you do not have that I would think then it will not try to unencrypt it but I bet there are some settings somewhere but I do not know. I know swap is also encrypted & you should then change the fstab entry on that.

Looks like better info is here:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/138950/how-to-disable-encrypted-home-directory](http://askubuntu.com/questions/138950/how-to-disable-encrypted-home-directory)

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-07-09
I just verified this here on a 12.04 install so hopefully it will work for you.

Create a new user account and copy your stuff over to its home directory. **Make sure you set it up as an Administrator in the  User Accounts tool**. By default it appears to create the new user with an unencrypted home directory.

Then once you have made sure you have all your stuff in the new user account you can just use that and delete your original account along with its home dir.

You will probably need to do some chown'ing of your files to the new UID once they are moved.

---

### Post by kainalu on 2012-07-09
Thank you for taking the time to help me,

I think that this will do it. I will, of course, back up home first. Storage is not an issue, but performance is. When the machine is down tonight, I will do these steps and report late tonight if they worked. I am at UTC-10 here, so it will be several hours.

Thank you!

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-07-09
Thinking about it you will probably need to do the chown'ing of your copied files before logging into the new account for the first time.

Looking at the permissions on the folders/files in my encrypted home a lot of them are set as rw(x) only for the owner, particularly the hidden ones. So ya, do the chown to the new ID before logging in that account to avoid any spurious permissions warnings and errors.

---

### Post by kainalu on 2012-07-11
I managed to fix this problem (for now) with oldfred's advice. Thank you all for your help!

---

