---
title: "MOTP integration with SSH"
date: 2011-01-12
forum: Security
---

### Post by shrikeh on 2011-01-12
Hello there,

I've got Ubuntu 10.4 installed, and I'm experimenting with security on it.  After following the usual tutorials on best practice for SSH (including ssh keys), I've been attempting to use Mobile One Time Passwords (MOTP).

However, my primary concern is thus: while an SSH key ensures that machine A is machine A, in a hotdesking environment, it cannot confirm that the user of machine A is User A.  Passphrases on the SSH key is good, but there is no way to ensure that an SSH key generated by a user has a passphrase (unless I go and create the SSH keys for everyone).

My router supports MOTP and I've had no issues with it.  I was wondering if it would be possible to combine MOTP with SSH - I provide the workflow below:

1. User connectes from laptop X to server, e.g. ssh <username>@<host>
2. Server validates that SSH key is valid.
3. User prompted to provide MOTP.
4. User provides valid MOTP, logs in, else is booted out.

This might be doable with PAM modules, but I have no experience of using these and would love some explanation of the above scenario if possible.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-01-13
You'd have to use passwords only as far as I know, as using keys give you access without needing a password (as long as you know the passphrase, if there is one).

I found this: [http://blog.dhampir.no/content/otp-one-time-passwords-on-debian-squeeze-ssh-logins](http://blog.dhampir.no/content/otp-one-time-passwords-on-debian-squeeze-ssh-logins)

Might be of some use.

Check this one out too: [http://serverfault.com/questions/60323/real-one-time-passwords-otp-on-linux-other-than-s-key](http://serverfault.com/questions/60323/real-one-time-passwords-otp-on-linux-other-than-s-key)

---

