---
title: "9.10 Karmic Log-in Question"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: Security
---

### Post by DedMoroz on 2009-11-13
Ive upgraded to 9.10 and while i like the new look of the log-in, is it possible to get rid of my name appearing so I have to type in my user name again? If a random burglar turned on my computer (or even a nosy relative) they would still need to know my user name AND password, now in Karmic they only need to figure out my password.

Any tips with this? Thanks!

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2009-11-13
> **DedMoroz said:**
>  is it possible to get rid of my name appearing so I have to type in my user name again? 

Our brothers and sisters over at the ArchLinux forums have posted all the answers:

[http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Gnome_2.28_Changes#Configuring_gdm_2.28](http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Gnome_2.28_Changes#Configuring_gdm_2.28)

A bit further down that page you will find the answer:

Disable the list:
```
sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --set --type boolean /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/disable_user_list true 
```

Enable the list:
```
sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --set --type boolean /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/disable_user_list false
```


> **DedMoroz said:**
>  If a random burglar turned on my computer (or even a nosy relative) they would still need to know my user name AND password, now in Karmic they only need to figure out my password. Unless you use full disk encryption then this is irrelevant. Anyone with physical access --be that a burglar, a relative, or e.g. someone like me-- can easily get access to your file, reset your password, create their own user account with their own password and access your files that way ... or simply hose your files, just to see your shocked face.

It would only really make a difference if you used full disk encryption and/or are using an encrypted home directory ... With full disk encryption an intruder can't even reboot your computer. And even if it's already booted: Yes, without knowing your username and your password they will have a hard time figuring out how to log in. And even if they somehow managed to compromise root's account, thanks to the encrypted home folder they still would not be able to get to your files ...

But with a standard installation and without an encrypted home directory hiding your username won't keep an intruder away for too long ... 

Just to make sure you don't have any false sense of security. "Wohooo, I hid my username, I'm safe now!"   <== Nope, you're not. Unless you encrypt your harddisks and use an encrypted home folder ...

---

