---
title: "Windows 2000 vs XP vs Ubuntu clients using iptables"
date: 2009-05-14
forum: Security
---

### Post by hsweet on 2009-05-14
I have a real head-scratcher.  My 1st iptables firewall.  I'm trying to set up a white-list of websites and block everything else.  

The workstations can run either Windows 2000 or be LTSP thin clients.  There are also a couple of Windows XP machines.

I can block whatever I want in Linux or Windows XP.  The 2000 machines can be blocked from web access if I add a rule to cut access to the proxy server, but other than that they ignore my rules!  XP machines follow iptables rules.  
[LIST]
[*]Forward set to drop
[*]The 1st ip rules allow access the the Novell server
[*]I allow dns
[*]then add one site
[/LIST]

Is there anything different between how Win 2000 and XP access things, or do I need to learn more about Iptables, or both?

```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.0 on Thu May 14 09:00:48 2009
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [68110:5783277]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [3793:226850]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [11217:681055]
-A POSTROUTING -o eth1 -j MASQUERADE 
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu May 14 09:00:48 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.0 on Thu May 14 09:00:48 2009
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [16336762:19389369076]
:FORWARD DROP [191:10008]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [18178074:22760238871]
-A FORWARD -s 64.90.243.0/24 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -d 64.90.243.0/24 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -p udp -m udp --sport 53 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -p udp -m udp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -s 163.153.118.42/32 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -d 163.153.118.42/32 -j ACCEPT 
COMMIT

```

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2009-05-14
Hmm, your INPUT policy accepts everything, so the firewall does nothing.

---

### Post by hsweet on 2009-05-15
Tried that (disabled INPUT chain).  That keeps my server from accessing stuff, not my clients.  
And this works on any linux or winxp client, just not on the windows2000 ones.

---

### Post by withjigs on 2009-05-15
hi,
Can you please tell us what is the IP range for the Win2k computers?
Also I believe that following rules(to let pass dns queries),
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -p udp -m udp --sport 53 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -p udp -m udp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT 
are not needed as u are already allowing all kind of data for the required IP address.

I strongly believe that its not the OS, but it is the IP address range that you have allocated to win2k, is giving you trouble.

Thanks,

---

### Post by hsweet on 2009-05-15
Thanks for the response!..
 
The IP's I'm using for all the lab machines are 172.16.16.200 - 255, assigned via DHCP from my LTSP server (x.x.x.200) on the internal side, 64.90.x.x on going out to the rest of the network.

The thing that I don't get is that any machine in my lab using any os uses this range, so why does it work in one OS and not the other?

I logged a couple of clients this afternoon, one XP and one 2k. It's attached to this message.  Maybe it will tell me something useful.

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-05-16
> **hsweet said:**
> I have a real head-scratcher.  

The workstations can run either Windows 2000 or be LTSP thin clients.  There are also a couple of Windows XP machines.

The 2000 machines can be blocked from web access if I add a rule to cut access to the proxy server, but other than that they ignore my rules!  XP machines follow iptables rules.  


If your W2k machines are using web proxy, the rules you set don't apply to them 'cause they only connect to the proxy server and not to anything else. Thus, your win2k systems will have whatever web access the proxy server has (in terms of iptables filtering), or whatever web access the proxy allows them (in terms of access control or content filtering implemented by the proxy)

---

