---
title: "11.10 Encrypted LVM Move /boot To SD Card"
date: 2011-12-12
forum: Security
---

### Post by Polypro on 2011-12-12
Greetings,

I'm moving over from a Windows/TrueCrypt system. I have successfully installed 11.10 on a fully encrypted LVM. During install, I specified an external USB drive for /boot.

Everything is working great. The problem I have is that I want to move /boot to an SD Card. The USB drive is hanging out and it's only a matter of time before it is destroyed...and I'd also like to have a back up copy of the device that boots the computer. On my old Asus 1215N, the SD Card showed up as an option during install from the 11.04 CD. My new Aspire TimelineX doesn't show the SD Card as being available.

How can I copy the USB /boot to an SD Card?

Thanks,

P



Edit: Well, as I was typing this on my desktop I was trying stuff on the laptop. I got it figured out.

What I did for anyone else that searches for this:

I inserted the SD Card into the card reader, opened Disk Utility and formatted the SD Card as ext2 and ticked the bootable flag.

I unmounted both the SD Card and the USB drive that was mounted as /boot.

I then did a dd if=/dev/sdb1 of=/dev/sdc1

I then mounted /dev/sdc1 and did grub-install /dev/sdc

I shut down, removed the USB device, inserted the SD Card and booted from it using the BIOS. The boot menu appeared and booted to the passphrase entry screen. The passphrase was accepted and 11.10 booted.

I am a Linux cherry, so this was major! LOL. One question: Do I need to edit fstab? It works, so well enough alone and all that, but what does fstab do? Also could I have done dd if=/dev/sdb and sdc, instead of sdb1 and sdc1? Could I also have done grub-install sdc1 instead of sdc? Just trying to get a handle on how Linux works.

Thanks,

P

---

