---
title: "DNS Hijacking in 14.04 LTS?"
date: 2016-02-03
forum: Security
---

### Post by Not_Applicable on 2016-02-03
I'm running Ubuntu 14.04 LTS and discovered that there's apparently some amount of DNS hijacking occurring on my system.

As an example, if I go to "badlfhas.com" (just a randomly typed string), I end up at "xyz.xyz". A few notes:

* My ISP is Comcast, but I am using Google's DNS servers (8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4). This is set both in my router and in /etc/hosts
* dig and nslookup both return NXDOMAIN for this address.
* This behavior occurs on multiple browsers: Firefox, Chromium, and Dillo.
* This behavior *does not* occur on my Windows machine with Firefox or my iPhone with Safari, both of which are using the same wireless router.
* I've seen no evidence of any other DNS weirdness, such as improper redirects on valid domains or injected ads.
* I've tried restarting my system and nothing changes.
* Wireshark makes it clear what is happening:
** The system asks Google (8.8.8.8) for information on badlfhas.com and Google says "No such name".
** The system asks Google for information on badlfhas.com.com and Google finds an answer.

Based on this, my conclusion is that whatever problem this is is unique to my system and not the fault of my router settings or my ISP. Here is my question:

* Is this intentional behavior by Ubuntu? If so, how do I disable it?
* If this is not intentional behavior, what is going on? Malware? If so, how do I find and fix?

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by davehenson on 2016-02-03
I'm not sure I follow your example but there is some issues with the way DNS is handled with OpenVPN and Ubuntu. Which if you're trying to set your DNS instead of allowing the system to do it, then you could be seeing a similar problem. In other words, OpenVPN tries to change the DNS too from the assigned default and Ubuntu doesnt handle it well.  The problem has been there for a while. 

check this - [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1211110](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1211110)

---

### Post by Not_Applicable on 2016-02-03
Thanks for the information, but I'm not using VPN.

I guess a briefer description is this: If I try to go to a website that does not exist, instead of getting an error message back, Ubuntu appears to automatically append a ".com" to the domain name. In my example, badlfhas.com didn't exist, so the system automatically tried badlfhas.com.com, which does exist. I want to disable this behavior.

Does that make more sense?

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-02-03
Hi

> This is set both in my router and in /etc/hosts

How so ?

What configuration changes have you made to your system ?

Kind regards

---

### Post by Not_Applicable on 2016-02-03
Sorry, that was a mistake. It's actually set in /etc/resolv.conf, which currently reads

> 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4
nameserver 127.0.1.1


The Wireshark logs indicate that all the requests are indeed going through 8.8.8.8.

I can't think of any other DNS-related configuration changes I've made, although of course all sorts of applications are installed (latex, dropbox, etc.)

---

### Post by Doug S on 2016-02-03
I wonder if somehow a domain-search of "com" is being appended, perhaps via your leases file from your dhcp server (i.e. /var/lib/dhcp/dhclient.eth0.leases) or your  /etc/network/interfaces file. Example:
```
lease {
  interface "eth0";
  fixed-address 111.222.233.244;
  option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
  option routers 111.222.233.1;
  option dhcp-lease-time 86400;
  option dhcp-message-type 5;
  option domain-name-servers 199.185.220.254,198.80.55.5;
  option dhcp-server-identifier 173.182.207.20;
  [COLOR="#FF0000"]option domain-search "mydomain.com.";[/COLOR]
  option host-name "mail";
  option domain-name "mydomain.com";
  renew 4 2016/02/04 14:16:53;
  rebind 5 2016/02/05 01:03:22;
  expire 5 2016/02/05 04:03:22;
}

```

---

### Post by Not_Applicable on 2016-02-03
That sounds reasonable to me, but I don't know enough about Linux to know how that would have happened or what to do about it.

The only file in /var/lib/dhcp is dhclient.leases, which is empty. /etc/network/interfaces reads

> 
# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


/etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf contains the following bit:

> 
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
    domain-name, domain-name-servers, domain-search, host-name,
    dhcp6.name-servers, dhcp6.domain-search,
    netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope, interface-mtu,
    rfc3442-classless-static-routes, ntp-servers,
    dhcp6.fqdn, dhcp6.sntp-servers;


I removed the two "domain-search" bits just in case and restarted networking, but am seeing no change in the behavior.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2016-02-04
I am a server guy, and not very knowledgeable about the desktop versions. Do you see anything under "Settings" - "Network" - open the connection you are using and then the "IPV4 Settings" tab and look at the "Additional Search Domains" line. Maybe IpV6 also.

---

### Post by Not_Applicable on 2016-02-04
No, there's nothing in either of those tabs as far as I can see.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-02-04
Hi

I'm with Doug on this one. 

This sounds exactly like the .com domain is being added to your search domains.

Open a terminal and type

```
ifconfig
```

Note the name of the connection you're using (wireless or ethernet).

The type

```
nmcli -p -f DHCP4,IP4 device show <connection_name>
```

Replace <connection_name> with your *ahem* connection name :)

You may want to post that back here or look for anything that suggests it's searching the additional com search domain.

Kind regards

---

### Post by Not_Applicable on 2016-02-04
This is what I get:

> 
nmcli -p -f DHCP4,IP4 device list iface wlan0
===============================================================================
                                Device details
===============================================================================
DHCP4.OPTION[1]:                        expiry = 1454713474
DHCP4.OPTION[2]:                        broadcast_address = 172.16.0.255
DHCP4.OPTION[3]:                        dhcp_message_type = 5
DHCP4.OPTION[4]:                        routers = 172.16.0.1
DHCP4.OPTION[5]:                        dhcp_lease_time = 86400
DHCP4.OPTION[6]:                        ip_address = 172.16.0.12
DHCP4.OPTION[7]:                        subnet_mask = 255.255.255.0
DHCP4.OPTION[8]:                        domain_name_servers = 172.16.0.1
DHCP4.OPTION[9]:                        network_number = 172.16.0.0
DHCP4.OPTION[10]:                       dhcp_server_identifier = 172.16.0.1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IP4.ADDRESS[1]:                         ip = 172.16.0.12/24, gw = 172.16.0.1
IP4.DNS[1]:                             172.16.0.1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Doesn't seem like anything indicating it would add .com to things to search.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2016-02-04
> **Not_Applicable said:**
> Doesn't seem like anything indicating it would add .com to things to search.Agreed. I'm stumped. I don't think we have asked to see/etc/resolv.conf yet. Here's mine:```
doug@DOUG-64:~/config/etc$ [COLOR="#FF0000"]cat /etc/resolv.conf[/COLOR]
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
search smythies.com

```

---

### Post by Not_Applicable on 2016-02-04
Shown below.

> 
cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4
nameserver 172.16.0.1
nameserver 127.0.1.1


About the only thing I can think of that might be related are my changes to get postfix working so I can send out e-mails using the mail command. I set my system's hostname to "euler.com", but changing it back to "euler" seems to have no effect.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-02-04
Hi

Perform a sanity check.

Boot into a LiveUSB and try the same tests.

Do you get the same results ?

Kind regards

---

### Post by Habitual on 2016-02-04
My ISP used to do something similar to me also.
Land me on some silly search page of theirs when the site didn't exist, or resolve.
But nothing like xyz.xyz

Just sayin', it might be your ISP...

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-02-04
Hi

> **Habitual said:**
> My ISP used to do something similar to me also.
Land me on some silly search page of theirs when the site didn't exist, or resolve.
But nothing like xyz.xyz

Just sayin', it might be your ISP...

Agreed !

Testing from a live environment should show if this is the case.

Kind regards

---

### Post by Not_Applicable on 2016-02-06
LiveUSB did *not* exhibit the same behavior. But what's weird is that after I rebooted back into my installation, the hijacking was gone! I had previous tried a reboot, so I do not believe that that by itself was enough to fix everything.  The only thing I changed between that reboot and this one was the contents of /etc/host. So I guess that was the problem, somehow.  Thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-02-06
Hi

> **Not_Applicable said:**
> LiveUSB did *not* exhibit the same behavior. But what's weird is that after I rebooted back into my installation, the hijacking was gone! I had previous tried a reboot, so I do not believe that that by itself was enough to fix everything.  The only thing I changed between that reboot and this one was the contents of /etc/host. So I guess that was the problem, somehow.  Thanks for all the help.

What did you add to your /etc/hosts file ? 

It may help others if the changes to that file are the cause and you detail your changes here. 

Anyway, if you feel this thread has helped fix your problem the please mark this thread as SOLVED using the thread tools menu above post #1. 

It'll help others looking for a similar information.

Kind regards

---

### Post by Not_Applicable on 2016-02-07
Looks like someone beat me to marking it SOLVED.  I think I mentioned it in a previous post, but there was a ".com" at the end of my /etc/hostname file that I removed. I'm not 100% sure that this solved it, but this was the only change I made to the system.

---

