---
title: "14.04"
date: 2014-05-04
forum: Security
---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-05-04
Hey guys dumb question for you I decided to dump W7 from my dual booted desktop and go 14.04 but I didn't use the extra security at the start of installation is that only if someone jumps on my computer or is that encrypts the whole disk I only click on home folder so you have to log in 
I'm using Ubuntu for everything like it says because it can do everything I downloaded the ufw firewall and google chrome for the avast security and when I log in to my bank bank I'm only in long enough to what I have to do I should be safe or should I reinstall and use the Ubuntu security extras at the start of installations

---

### Post by grier-devon on 2014-05-04
You can use TrueCrypt so you don't have to do a fresh install and here is the documentation.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TrueCrypt](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TrueCrypt)

I have heard that disk encryption only protects against physical computer use and I have heard that it also protects from hackers you may encounter from the web. I personally have my entire disk encrypted since I don't mind typing one additional password in the beginning for additional security. Just as a word to the wise from that I have read on the topic is for true security your encrypted password needs to be at least 20 characters with at least 1 upper case, 1 lower case, 1 number, 1 letter and 1 specialty mark like !,@,#.

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-05-04
Not sure of your level of knowledge on Windows/Mac/Linux so here we go:

Most people in the forums don't use Antivirus software on Linux just for the pure fact Linux doesn't need it. Usually those that are transferring content back and forth between their Linux to Windows use it. Lets say I downloaded some skeptical files under Ubuntu - now I know most viruses won't execute under Ubuntu so I just unzip or view or what not. Now lets say I'm transferring that to Windows, yeah I may scan it just in case.

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-05-04
I ony open my firewall because like they say google is your best friend and your right linux don't need and antivirus 
so I only encrypted the home folder I should okay but if I need to I will re install to use the extra security

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-05-04
Well guys I re installed the OS and put in the added security password plus encrypted the home folder so far the distro runs great good jod Canonical LTD on a job well done one thing about going Linux over Microsoft you don't have too worry about your OS getting slower and slower thats why I like Linux it doesn't get bogged down like Windows

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-05-04
Just curious gordie692, how many times have you reinstalled your OS?

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-04
Well, for what its worth, here are few tips. If you're using things like online banking, make sure to use browser plugins which help blocking scripts and adds, keep a different browser for this then one you make use for flash/java and other Christmas tree items. Most ''good'' Bank sites generally take care of themselves but it is also a good idea to never open any other tab or window while doing online banking. You see, biggest security risk in this type of thing is not OS, but it is the user. Irrespective of what firewall/AV you seat behind, if you do things you shouldn't, it will be trouble. Although, Linux is generally far more safe than windows for this.

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2014-05-05
the firewall i use is ufw from software center and i use chrome for my banking and firefox for downloading what did mean script even with chrome i just the avast chrome has built in
everytime i turn onn computer i enable the firewall in the unity bar just so i know it's on

---

### Post by open2reason on 2014-05-05
> Just as a word to the wise from that I have read on the topic is for true  security your encrypted password needs to be at least 20 characters  with at least 1 upper case, 1 lower case, 1 number, 1 letter and 1  specialty mark like !,@,#.                 

A few ideas abut passwords / pass-phrases from Stanford University illustrates just that point [http://arstechnica.com/security/2014/04/stanfords-password-policy-shuns-one-size-fits-all-security/](http://arstechnica.com/security/2014/04/stanfords-password-policy-shuns-one-size-fits-all-security/)

But remember as with all things security related research and thinking often pay dividends.

---

