---
title: "[13.10] Is the flashplugin-installer authenticated?"
date: 2014-02-02
forum: Security
---

### Post by newnotice on 2014-02-02
I'm using Ubuntu 13.10 x64. [Recently I've received a warning I can't get rid of telling me that flashplugin-installer cannot be updated.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2203167")


When I click on 'Run this action now' a terminal window opens and executes this:
```
flashplugin-installer: downloading http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/adobe-flashplugin_11.2.202.335.orig.tar.gz
```
which is going out as
```
GET http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/adobe-flashplugin_11.2.202.335.orig.tar.gz HTTP/1.0
Host: archive.canonical.com
User-Agent: Python-urllib/1.17
```


My question is since this is an HTTP request to download adobe-flashplugin_11.2.202.335.orig.tar.gz can it be subject to a MITM attack? In other words, can someone compromise my machine by sending a fake file? I'm not sure about Ubuntu's update procedures but I'm figuring some python script somewhere is trying to get this file (and for whatever reason it's not coming in right, which is another issue) and then replace the existing plugin with the new plugin in that file. Is that authenticated in any way?

Thanks

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-02
The flashplugin is no longer supported. It finished right where you are, 11.2. Nothing to do with ubuntu but a decision made by the flash folk to no longer support Linux. No comment on that. openJDK7 in software centre might solve your issue.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-02-02
I just checked the repository in Chromium, and can download the tar.gz package without any errors.

[http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/](http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-02
Chromium? Oh, you want Pepper Flash. That is supported in Chromium browser but actually is used exclusively by Chromium, in Chromium. It is part of the app and will not be used in any other part of the system. Obviously some handshake between Adobe and Google. That will give you Adobe flash 12 I believe. 

Lot's of options [HERE.]("https://duckduckgo.com/?q=install+pepper+flash+ubuntu+chromium&kj=p&kl=us-en&kn=1&kp=-1&kz=-1")

Adding a PPA might be the best choice.

---

### Post by newnotice on 2014-02-03
Right I appreciate the answers but my question is [COLOR=#000000]since this is an HTTP request to download adobe-flashplugin_11.2.202.335.orig.tar.gz can it be subject to a MITM attack? [/COLOR]

Also maybe this is a question for another forum but if flash isn't supported anymore how do I get rid of it and why is ubuntu still downloading it? My last system update was 1/31/2014 and that's when it started with that failure message.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-02-03
Doesn't the flashplugin-installer contain updated md5sums(or other checksum) to check the hash of the flashplugin?
If the hash doesn't match then the download fails.

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-02-03
> **newnotice said:**
>  Also maybe this is a question for another forum but if flash isn't supported anymore how do I get rid of it and why is ubuntu still downloading it? My last system update was 1/31/2014 and that's when it started with that failure message.Because it was last updated 1-14-14.
[http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/](http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/)

They're still updating it, this was a critical security update. 
[http://www.adobe.com/support/flashplayer/downloads.html](http://www.adobe.com/support/flashplayer/downloads.html)

11.2 is the last version they support. "Fortunately for Linux users, Adobe says it will continue to provide security updates to non-Pepper distributions of Flash Player 11.2 on Linux for five years from its release."Quote from [http://www.zdnet.com/blog/open-source/adobe-abandons-linux/10418](http://www.zdnet.com/blog/open-source/adobe-abandons-linux/10418)

I wouldn't have a problem using it knowing it will get security updates until 2017. If you want to uninstall it, use```
 sudo apt-get remove adobe-flashplugin*
```

---

### Post by newnotice on 2014-02-05
> **deadflowr said:**
> Doesn't the flashplugin-installer contain updated md5sums(or other checksum) to check the hash of the flashplugin?
If the hash doesn't match then the download fails.
Is there any way I can check to see if it's authenticated, I really don't know why the download is failing. Since flash will still receive security updates I am going keep flash.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-02-05
Try a different mirror, to see if you get the same result.

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-02-05
> **newnotice said:**
> Is there any way I can check to see if it's authenticated, I really don't know why the download is failing. Since flash will still receive security updates I am going keep flash.
+1 to the different mirror.

The way the repositories work is they have cryptographic keys. When you add a repository you also add the key. Your computer checks its key with the repository and if they match the update is downloaded. So even though it's over http, the source has been 'authenticated'.

---

### Post by newnotice on 2014-02-05
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Try a different mirror, to see if you get the same result.
I don't know how to do that but it looks like I don't have to because today it worked to update.

> **bashiergui said:**
> +1 to the different mirror.

The way the repositories work is they have cryptographic keys. When you add a repository you also add the key. Your computer checks its key with the repository and if they match the update is downloaded. So even though it's over http, the source has been 'authenticated'.

Ok. But is there any log or any way for me to confirm that with flashplugin-installer?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-02-05
> **newnotice said:**
> I don't know how to do that but it looks like I don't have to because today it worked to update.


To switch mirrors the easy way.
Open the program software and updates
in the first tab is a button thing that says Download from with what looks like a dropdown bar.
Click on the bar and at the bottom is an option for other, choose this(other) and a window will open to a selction of other mirrors.
in the top right corner is an option to let it automagically find the best server(mirror).
Select a mirror close both windows and then try running software updater so the system fully connects with the new mirror.
(Simply put, make sure it's a viable mirror for you.)

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-02-06
> **newnotice said:**
> Ok. But is there any log or any way for me to confirm that with flashplugin-installer?Everything you ever wanted to know about the Ubuntu secure update keys, and how to validate them
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SecureApt](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SecureApt)

---

### Post by newnotice on 2014-02-06
Ok thanks. I did review that documentation but I don't see where I can review the logfile. Basically I would like to know what failed and if it was the lack of authentication or some other reason, and also does it log when an authentication succeeds?

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-02-06
Not sure if var/log/apt/history.log or var/log/apt/term.log would be the place, but check those. Grep for adobe.

edit: or you could grep for the actual package name you're looking for....

---

