---
title: "88888virus?"
date: 2008-05-17
forum: Security
---

### Post by jesse c on 2008-05-17
last night i was on line and i typed in a web address and a stream of 8's started streaming across the address bar.I was using Firefox so i switched desktops and tried Epiphany browser with same results with streaming 8's but now my mouse wouldnt work on anything and since i dont know any command line escapes i powered off and restarted and everything was back to normal.What did i run across?Was it a virus or just some bug?

---

### Post by chinese_ys on 2008-05-17
Thats not virus I think. Mouse does not work means system freezes and web browser doesnot work properly means something related to browser itself.

Do not be fear.

---

### Post by sharkey77 on 2008-05-26
Sounds like a buffer overflow attempt.

---

### Post by SEMW on 2008-05-26
I'm sure you've already thought of this, but in case you haven't: are you sure it wasn't just that the '8' key on your keyboard (either of them) got stuck down or otherwise jammed?  The simplest explanation is often the best one...

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2008-05-26
no such thing as that virus!!  You are, most likely, having a hardware issue.

cntrl/alt/backspace will give you back your working desktop without a shut down and re-boot

---

### Post by sharkey77 on 2008-05-26
> **SEMW said:**
> I'm sure you've already thought of this, but in case you haven't: are you sure it wasn't just that the '8' key on your keyboard (either of them) got stuck down or otherwise jammed?  The simplest explanation is often the best one...

I second that.

---

