---
title: "MBL_209442.UNOFFICIAL:  Is this a Virus?"
date: 2011-05-31
forum: Security
---

### Post by Ubuntist on 2011-05-31
Two ClamTk virus scans done a few weeks apart have returned the following positives, in addition to those of the ClamAV test files and Eicar test signatures:

/usr/share/pyshared/twisted/test/test_strcred.py  MBL_209442.UNOFFICIAL
/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/twisted/test/test_strcred.py MBL_209442.UNOFFICIAL

Should I be worried?  If so, what should I do about it?

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-05-31
Try using [apt-file]("apt:apt-file") on them. This will determine if you got the file as part of a package you downloaded, in which case all is fine.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-05-31
Have you tried a google search.

---

### Post by Ubuntist on 2011-05-31
> **searchfgold6789 said:**
> Try using [apt-file]("apt:apt-file") on them. This will determine if you got the file as part of a package you downloaded, in which case all is fine.

Thanks much.  I didn't know about apt-file, but I've now installed and run it with the following results:

```

~ 512> apt-file find /usr/share/pyshared/twisted/test/test_strcred.py
python-twisted-core: /usr/share/pyshared/twisted/test/test_strcred.py
~ 513> 
~ 513> 
~ 513> apt-file find /usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/twisted/test/test_strcred.py
python-twisted-core: /usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/twisted/test/test_strcred.py
```Am I correct that apt-file is confirming that these files are part of the distribution?  Even if they are, could it not be that they have been altered in some nefarious way?

---

### Post by Ubuntist on 2011-05-31
> **dFlyer said:**
> Have you tried a google search.

Yes, I did, thanks for the suggestion.  I found two people posting essentially the same question as I in other forums.  Unfortunately, in neither case was there a conclusive answer.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-05-31
I did also after I posted. Same results.

---

### Post by ikt on 2011-05-31
maybe give them a throw at:

[http://www.virustotal.com/](http://www.virustotal.com/)

see what turns up, probably false positive.

---

### Post by Ubuntist on 2011-06-01
Thanks for the suggestion.  VirusTotal indicates no evidence that the files are infected.  Ironically, I guess I'll stop worrying now.

Thanks everybody!

---

