---
title: "Key stroke logging and internet banking"
date: 2014-02-18
forum: Security
---

### Post by philromford-q on 2014-02-18
I have a question regarding internet banking: will Ubuntu 12.04 keep intruders out  who are attempting to log key strokes, or any other means of hacking into my account. Perhaps the answer is that Linux  doesn't have open ports by default; unlike MS Windows.

I have read conflicting articles on the subject of virus attack/scanning and vulnerabilities. Could someone please offer a definitive answer/guide on this.

Comodo have a free virus scanner which purports to be for Linux, CAVL, however, some people say it is of no practical use. What really are the facts?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-18
*Thread moved to **Security Discussions.***

Better here. ;)

---

### Post by The Cog on 2014-02-18
Ubuntu is probably vastly safer than windows for internet banking, but nothing is totally secure, so no guarantees.
Your best bet is to use an Ubuntu live CD - boot it immediately before visiting the bank web site, and don't visit anywhere else.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-02-18
I'd bet most keyloggers are installed, unwittingly, by users who fall prey to phishing attacks, etc. The status of the ports won't make much difference in those cases.

My choice would depend on the security procedures my bank puts in place.  My bank's site does not allow the browser to remember passwords (not that I would anyway). It uses a two-factor login system for routine activities like balance checking and making bill payments to established payees.  If you try to take money out or change the account -- like set up a bank transfer, establish a  payment to a new recipient, etc. -- then you also need to traverse another level using a temporary code generated by a card the bank sent you. Without that, the only money transfers that can be made are  bill pays to the accounts I've set up.

So, I feel reasonably secure.  Plus, I bookmark what I know to be the bank's URL and I only access it from one machine. I *never* access the bank's site from a machine I don't own.

As Cog suggests, booting a live image off a CD or USB is likely to be the most secure, if you can tolerate that,  A USB will be much faster.

---

### Post by Jonor on 2014-02-18
I don't recall any internet bank allowing access to an account without at least some use of picking characters using the mouse pointer, so key stroke loggers should be inadequate on their own.

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2014-02-18
CAVL doesn't actually work (at least not in real-time mode) on Ubuntu beyond 12.04.2 (ie beyond kernel 3.5).

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2014-02-18
> **philromford-q said:**
> I have a question regarding internet banking: will Ubuntu 12.04 keep intruders out  who are attempting to log key strokes, or any other means of hacking into my account. Perhaps the answer is that Linux  doesn't have open ports by default; unlike MS Windows.

You've asked that question in a strong way. You're asking "Will Ubuntu 12.04 keep intruders out", which sounds like you're asking if it actively fights against attacks. It doesn't. No operating system does.

However, Ubuntu is designed in a secure way from top to bottom. Separation between administrator and user, better sandboxing of programs, memory layout randomization, execute permission (no executable programs you download can be run until you explicitly give them the Execute Permission), and even the repositories which make you much less likely to go trawling around the internet looking for software and inadvertently downloading trojans. There are very few vectors for attack that are open in a default install of Ubuntu. Keep your system up-to-date and those few vectors get patched.

If you previously used Windows XP... well, that operating system was a joke. Ubuntu 12.04 will be ten times more secure than Windows XP. It'll even be more secure than Windows 7 or Windows 8. Just don't go trawling across the internet for random software to download, that's how most people on Windows got their identities stolen.

> I have read conflicting articles on the subject of virus attack/scanning and vulnerabilities. Could someone please offer a definitive answer/guide on this.

Comodo have a free virus scanner which purports to be for Linux, CAVL, however, some people say it is of no practical use. What really are the facts?

More people were killed by sharks in Australia last year, than were infected by Linux viruses in-the-wild worldwide last year.

Rootkits are a different story. System admins get infected by rootkits, but they are pieces of code targetted directly at a single system. Unless you're running anything of value on your computer, and have internet-facing servers running (such as Apache web server or SSH Server) you'll never have anything to fear from rootkits. You'll never see them.

If you run an anti-virus program for Linux, then you should also wear a hard hat everywhere you go. More people worldwide get killed by falling coconuts than get infected with Linux viruses. MANY more people. It's sad for the poor tourists who go home in bodybags, but lucky for Linux users because we don't have to use anti-virus.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-02-18
If a Linux machine is on a Windows network and passes Windows files around, running a local anti-malware package will help keep Windows malware from being inadvertantly passed along in email and the  like.

---

### Post by fugu2 on 2014-02-18
> **The Cog said:**
> Ubuntu is probably vastly safer than windows for internet banking, but nothing is totally secure, so no guarantees.
Your best bet is to use an Ubuntu live CD - boot it immediately before visiting the bank web site, and don't visit anywhere else.

If i can add my two cents, I'd like to make a counter-point to this. The LiveCD doesn't work well with all updates (i.e. some updates require
you to reboot, which you can't do on a LiveCD without removing the updates). If a software were to have a problem like a vulnerability, someone
would have easier access to 'breaking in' to the LiveCD then they would to a persistent OS that has all of the proper updates.

---

### Post by Kirboosy on 2014-02-18
If you want to keep on the LiveCD vein of thinking there is a distro based on Debian called [TAILS - The Ammensic Incognito Live System]("https://tails.boum.org/"). The whole aim of the distro is to preserve your **privacy** and **anonymity**. Its not meant to be a install and used like a regular distro but as a companion CD while you travel around. You could use it for your banking needs and then reboot back to normal Ubuntu upon completion.

3rdalbum you sir nailed it. +1 from me

~Caboose

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-02-18
> **fugu2 said:**
> If i can add my two cents, I'd like to make a counter-point to this. The LiveCD doesn't work well with all updates (i.e. some updates require
you to reboot, which you can't do on a LiveCD without removing the updates). If a software were to have a problem like a vulnerability, someone
would have easier access to 'breaking in' to the LiveCD then they would to a persistent OS that has all of the proper updates.

Anything "updated" to a live image is written to RAM, not to the CD.  Theoretically, an attacker could do that, too. But, he would need to find you in the short interval you were running off the CD to complete a banking transaction.  

I'm assuming that the user boots the CD, does the banking, removes the CD and reboots.   If someone was industrious, they could build an image with no apps but a browser that loaded the known, safe, bank URL.

---

### Post by maglin2 on 2014-02-18
@ OP:
You may find these links interesting (thanks to deadflowr for posting them in another thread):
[https://blogs.rsa.com/rsa-peeks-into...hand-of-thief/]("https://blogs.rsa.com/rsa-peeks-into-the-bits-of-new-linux-based-trojan-hand-of-thief/")
scroll down to Test Machine #2.
More on [ptrace scope]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Security/Features#ptrace")

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-02-18
Ubuntu and on-line banking is pretty secure.
My take on banking on-line, though, is if your bank offers multiple layers of authentication, use them.
And never let your browser save any of the credentials(user password)
And don't log in if the https(your bank uses https, right?) is broken when you try logging in.
(typically shown as green when good, has an x, or is red when broke).

As for keylooging, it is possible. But every review or demonstration I've seen with that and Ubuntu usually has a step where the end user(you at the keyboard) has to install a package or run a root privilege instance.

The one thing you should never do is sit on your laurels and think nothing bad will happen.
Being secure should also be a pro active state of mind.

That's my mindless drivel.

Edit: shoulda been
Being secure should **always** be a pro active state of mind.
I'd fix my misspelling of keylooging, but that's actually funny.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-02-18
> **Jonor said:**
> I don't recall any internet bank allowing access to an account without at least some use of picking characters using the mouse pointer, so key stroke loggers should be inadequate on their own.

Depends on the bank. All of the ones I have used (in the US) don't do that. They rely on a password and a security question if logging in from a new computer/ip address.

> **deadflowr said:**
> 
The one thing you should never do is sit on your laurels and think nothing bad will happen.
Being secure should also be a pro active state of mind.

That's my mindless drivel.

This. I would be more worried about the browser than the OS tbh.

---

### Post by Jonor on 2014-02-19
[These]("http://www.keycarbon.com/products/keycarbon_usb/overview/"), which work for linux and could be hidden inside a keyboard, have been around for a while 
and would put me off using a public computer to access banking that had neither 
mouse pointer character picking or use of an independent [handheld password generator]("http://9and3quarters.timeywimey.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/07-HSBC.jpg").

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-19
Why use something obvious when the owner of a public computer, or an internet cafe, could install a keylogger via software and 99% of users would be none the wiser ...

---

### Post by Jonor on 2014-02-19
I know almost nothing about them but i should imagine they are reinstall-proof.

---

### Post by philromford-q on 2014-02-19
Thank you everyone, very helpful indeed! It is probably clear to you that I am new to the Ubuntu world, hence my possibly naive questions. The machine running Ubuntu is now dedicated to 12.04 wholly, Win XP has been binned -  at last.

The suggestion of booting from CD or USB stick sounds a good idea, however, I would have to concur with Fugu2 that without the security updates this could be questionable.

Caboose885 discusses the Debian distro, I shall be taking a look at this one.

So, thank you guys, this has been most helpful of you and it helps my understanding of Linux a little more.

---

### Post by open2reason on 2014-02-19
You could if running from a fully patched 12.04lts (under your complete control) access the outside world via a Guest account as I believe this would use the latest code that is installed on the machine and I think could be more up to date than a live CD crafted some time ago.

---

### Post by mimilovell on 2014-02-21
Ive been told the most secure thing to do is just use one device that you only use to log into personal accounts, like the bank. And always check your bank statement. AS there is nothing secure anymore. Like the saying goes, if your money is not in your hand, it is not yours.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-02-21
> **mimilovell said:**
> Ive been told the most secure thing to do is just use one device that you only use to log into personal accounts, like the bank.

That goes a bit too far beyond more own tolerable zone, but it will certainly work. 

Bookmarking a known, good URL and using only it to access the site is a no-brainer, though.

No matter what we do on our side, the bank's role in this is also at least as important.  If you bank does not offer some form of two-factor authentication for routine transactions, and does not challenge you for another form of one-time authentication when you want to change the account, move money  out of the account, etc.,  it could be time to look for another bank.

 > And always check your bank statement. 

 I use a credit card for almost all purchases.  I've set up email alerts for any transaction over $100. I check the account online and via hard copy monthly statements.

So far, over the course of ten years or so, zero problems with the bank account and one issue with the credit card (identified by the card issuer who called me to see if I had actually been in a Washington DC post office buying a thousand dollars worth of stamps.)

---

### Post by sam_baker2 on 2014-02-21
and if you are really worried, you can use florence virtual keyboard:

[http://florence.sourceforge.net/english.html](http://florence.sourceforge.net/english.html)

---

