---
title: "14.04 apt-mirror packages detected with virus"
date: 2016-04-20
forum: Security
---

### Post by kuenn_leow on 2016-04-20
hello all,

this is what my virus scan detects for the packages i download with apt-mirror.
will like to see if anyone get the same and if this is a false positive.


detected scanner  
    ../mirror/au.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/sanitizer/sanitizer_1.76.orig.tar.gz : Win.Exploit.WMF-4 FOUND 2016-04-16 04:33:43
    ../mirror/au.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/s/sup-mail/sup-mail_0.12.1+git20120407.aaa852f.orig.tar.gz : Html.Exploit.IFrame-17 FOUND 2016-04-16-03:22:39
    ../mirror/au.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/w/wbxml2/wbxml2_0.10.7.orig.tar.gz : Win.Trojan.Ramnit-5549 FOUND 2016-04-16 01:35:38
    ../mirror/au.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/z/zorp/zorp_3.9.5.orig.tar.gz : Eicar-Test-Signature FOUND 2016-04-16 00:26:16

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-04-20
*Thread moved to **Security**.*

Welcome. Have you added any PPAs lately? Have you just installed Ubuntu? Where did you download the ISO from? 

What 'apt-mirror' did you download the packages from?

---

### Post by fugu2 on 2016-04-20
> **kuenn_leow said:**
> ../mirror/au.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/z/zorp/zorp_3.9.5.orig.tar.gz : Eicar-Test-Signature FOUND 2016-04-16 00:26:16 Eicar is not a virus. Its a test file thats used by anti-virus developers to see if the system is working correctly (you should use a search engine to get more info on EICAR). You might consider running those other files through [www.virustotal.com](www.virustotal.com), or maybe another online virus detection engine to see if you can get any other information on it.

---

### Post by Habitual on 2016-04-21
Try populating from another mirror and re-scan?

---

### Post by kuenn_leow on 2016-04-22
confirmed all are not virus. send false positive report to clamav already.

---

### Post by Habitual on 2016-04-22
> **kuenn_leow said:**
> confirmed all are not virus.

How was that done?
In the future, you could upload suspects to virustotal.com and have it analyzed just to be certain.

---

