---
title: "Unrecoverable Read Error on boot"
date: 2007-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by HavocRise on 2007-04-27
Feisty Fawn has been installed on my home laptop since last weekend, and everything has been working fine.  Neither my wife nor I have had any issues whatsoever.  However, this morning when she went to run Ubuntu, it stopped in the middle of the boot splash giving an error when going through ATA setup (I'm pretty sure) on the harddisk.  This error seemed to be causing an endless loop.  I then tried to boot into recovery mode and got a more legible message that said "Unrecoverable Read Error - Auto Reallocation Failed".  This too was looping, mixed in with the previous error I was talking about.  I wish I could cut and paste that other error to show you all.

Anyway, my wife was able to boot successfully into Windows (dual boot) with any problems.  I thinking my Ubuntu setup is FUBARed.  Does anyone have any ideas?

You help me fix this, and I will declare you a:

:guitar: 

Thanks in advance...

---

### Post by HavocRise on 2007-04-27
No one has any clue?  Is it because people are at work?

---

### Post by binarybird on 2007-04-27
Havoc...

Since you are running fine in WinX and it still gives you grief when booting into rescue my first gut check says it is something wrong on the disk in the partition tables.

Do you have access to a LiveCD (ubuntu, suse whatever is available)...or a USB drive with DSL you could boot up and get operational? 

Once you did that I'd run **e2fsck** on the disk and throw in a **-c** flag to check for badblocks. If it finds them it will update the badblock inode so they can't be used. That will give you a start to find out if this is hardware related or software.

Can you post the results here?

---

### Post by HavocRise on 2007-04-27
> **binarybird said:**
> Havoc...

Since you are running fine in WinX and it still gives you grief when booting into rescue my first gut check says it is something wrong on the disk in the partition tables.

Do you have access to a LiveCD (ubuntu, suse whatever is available)...or a USB drive with DSL you could boot up and get operational? 

Once you did that I'd run **e2fsck** on the disk and throw in a **-c** flag to check for badblocks. If it finds them it will update the badblock inode so they can't be used. That will give you a start to find out if this is hardware related or software.

Can you post the results here?

Definitely.  Thank you for your reply.  I will try this tonight when I get home.

---

### Post by HavocRise on 2007-04-28
Ok, so I tried running e2fsck on the partition from the Feisty Live CD and it locked.  I'm strongly considering using a backup option like throwing everything in a tar file, nuking the Linux partitions, and then copying everything back.  I might also add a step in there where I reinstall Feisty from scratch.  Would something along those lines work, you think?

---

### Post by HavocRise on 2007-04-30
Ok, so here's an update.  I nuked the Ubuntu partitions and started over.  Everything ran swimmingly until I installed NTFS-config.  I think that's what killed me last time.  Now, everything runs, but when I boot it creeps for about a minute and a half after login.  By "creeps" I mean that I can't click anything on the Gnome panels.  After a little bit, it clears up and keeps going strong.

I checked the System log and noticed the same errors as before re-occurring. I have attached a screenshot of the log to give everyone an idea.  There were pages and pages of that stuff.  Like I said, this all started after an install of NTFS-config.  I have uninstalled NTFS-config, as well as fuse (ntfs-3g) drivers.  This did not alleviate the problem.  Boot up is still as slow as ever, and I still get those errors.  I think the problem has to do with my fstab.

NTFS-config changed my fstab like so:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=acd87afb-fe62-44a5-8e25-0e4850466ea1 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=ec450f5b-5ffe-4981-8bcb-2fcb1a122296 /boot ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=4CB4BDBAB4BDA73C /media/sda1 ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=0a17bb73-5c5d-49f0-8f7e-ea049940f641 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0


Does anyone see what might be causing this problem?  Thanks in advance!!!

---

### Post by HavocRise on 2007-04-30
Can someone please post their fstab???

---

