---
title: "10.04 - Mod4+S trapped by the window manager"
date: 2010-08-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dbarto on 2010-08-04
What I want to do is **remove** the Mod4+<key> from doing anything in the window manager. I'm sure that my new status gives away the fact that how to do this is obvious to  the casual observer, just that I'm not up to that level yet. I've looked for the usual suspects (System -> Preferences -> [pretty much everything]).

I use the  Mod4 as the nedit (graphical editor you should try it) 'modifier' key.

After the upgrade, the Mod4+S and Mod4+M get trapped by the Window  manager.

How do I disable the WM from trapping any of the Mod4+<key> combos completely?

Thanks for all assistance.

    David

---

### Post by Zorgoth on 2010-08-04
Are you using compiz?  

To do this graphically yourself:

If you don't have it, get ccsm by running
sudo apt-get compizconfig-settings-manager

You can also install this using the Ubuntu Software Center if it makes you more comfortable.

After it is inste

Go through the enabled plugins and find Super-m and Super-s (compiz calls Mod4 Super)

OR: To do this a bit faster:
Run this command 

gconftool-2 -R /apps/compiz > ~/output
Then open ~/output (this is a text file in your home directory) with the text editor of your choice
- for example, you could run the command
"gedit ~/output"
or you could navigate to your home directory in Nautilus (Places > Home Folder from the panel) and open the file from there.

Then search for '<Super>-s' and '<Super>-m' in ~/output, and find which keys are using them.

Then use gconf-editor to disable these keys.

---

### Post by dbarto on 2010-08-09
Apparently I'm not using compiz. I'm using whatever is the generic window manager that boots in 10.04 (Gnome?). So this hint, while useful as a learning experience doesn't solve my problem. 

I guess I need to find the 'default Gnome' configuration file that controls the shortcuts for gnome. Any help on that?

Maybe I am running Compiz, I don't know. More google doesn't help for this. In any case, the output file generated using the 'gconftool-2 -R /apps/compiz' doesn't contain any <Super>S entries.

Thanks.

And more research shows that this all might be part of something called an 'indicator applet'.

Any help with that?

---

### Post by Saieno on 2010-08-11
This is extremely frustrating. I don't need Mod4-s to open the system menu, so why can't I change it? I want to use the Compiz Grouping and Tabbing plugin, but I can't because 10.04 has Mod4-s locked as a Window Manager feature...how the hell do I get it off?

---

