---
title: "Monitor won't go to higher Resolution no matter what"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dradien on 2009-05-08
Hello all, I've figured out just about every other problem I've had (Which are far and few), but this has me stumped.

My monitor (An old as the hills Hitachi SuperScan 20s) wont' go above 1152x864.  Ive tried editing the Xorg.conf, I have the restricted drivers installed, anyone able to help?  Below is my Xorg.conf....

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



Thanks!

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2009-05-08
Have you checked the specs. of your monitor ? 

Perhaps it is NOT capable of displaying resoltion higher than that.

---

### Post by Dradien on 2009-05-08
Yea, Ive check it.  It went higher in 8.04 and it goes higher in Windows.  That is also a new xorg...

I ran sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg and it popped that out, the one I WAS using : 

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier "Hitachi SuperScan 20S"
    VendorName "Hitachi"
    ModelName "SuperScan 20S model no. CM2095MU"
    HorizSync 30-69
    VertRefresh 50-100
    Modeline  "1280x1024" 110.00 1280 1328 1512 1712 1024 1025 1028 1054
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Hitachi SuperScan 20S"
	Monitor		"Hitachi SuperScan 20S"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-05-08
> **Dradien said:**
> 
    HorizSync 30-69
    VertRefresh 50-100


If these are the correct values for your monitor, pop them in your xorg.conf.

---

### Post by swisstone198 on 2009-05-08
Run

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

then restart, that should so it.

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-08
Try a xorg.conf that looks like:

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier "Hitachi SuperScan 20S"
    VendorName "Hitachi"
    ModelName "SuperScan 20S model no. CM2095MU"
    HorizSync 30-69
    VertRefresh 50-100
    Modeline  "1280x1024" 110.00 1280 1328 1512 1712 1024 1025 1028 1054
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Hitachi SuperScan 20S"
	Monitor		"Hitachi SuperScan 20S"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
	Modes      "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
```

If that doesn't work, then try:
```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
    Modeline  "1280x1024" 110.00 1280 1328 1512 1712 1024 1025 1028 1054
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
	Modes      "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Dradien on 2009-05-08
That Fixxed it! Thank you:)

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-09
> **Dradien said:**
> That Fixxed it! Thank you:)

Glad it worked out :)

---

