---
title: "nvidia screen resolution stuck on 640x480"
date: 2009-03-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-03-12
i normally run in 1920x1200 but after a power cut, the PC checked the disks and then started up in 640x480.  i tried reinstalling the NVIDIA driver but the result is still the same.

```

 nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Thu Feb  5 00:18:17 PST 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1200_60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

output from xrandr:
```

Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 640 x 480, maximum 640 x 480
default connected 640x480+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   640x480        50.0* 
   320x240        51.0  

```

anyone know what the problem might be?

thanks!

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-03-12
Hi and are you able to use nvidia-settings to change the resolution?
Have you tried using the xfix option when booting into recovery mode.

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-03-12
not able to use nvidia-settings to change resolution, the max is still 640x480.

i tried running xfix in recovery mode, the result was that my max resolution increased to 1360x768.  when i tried running nvidia-settings, it complained that i may not have an NVIDIA driver installed.

so then i tried reinstalling the latest NVIDIA driver again, and now i'm back where i started with max resolution @ 640x480.

any ideas?

---

### Post by Neo_The_User on 2009-03-12
yes. try configuring using xrandr if you understand the messed up man page for it.

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-03-12
i tried reinstalling intrepid on this machine and got to max res 1024x768.  then i installed the latest nvidia driver again and i'm back to 640x480.

wtf.  any idea how i can get back to 1920x1200?  do you think it maybe a h/w issue?

---

### Post by chris4585 on 2009-03-12
try a older nvidia driver?

---

### Post by Nano_ext3 on 2009-03-12
Like most, I would install and run EnvyNG for you system to properly install and configure you nvidia driver.  It will auto update your xorg.conf and also correct your resolution and other settings.

Installing EnvyNG , which is a fantastic program to install your ATI / or Nvidia driver automatically, is easy. This will also, in addition to the graphics driver, a repository addition , so your normal system updates will include the latest driver , when the EnvyNG developer decides to code the latest stable driver. The developed tends not to code , or push the Beta drivers, which are the latest on nvidia's webside (do not know about ATI)

Install EnvyNG by doing:

Gnome : sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
KDE : sudo apt-get install envyng-qt

This can be also done via Synaptics Package manager under,System > Administration > Synaptics. From here check your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and make sure your driver, under device I believe a sub-entry for your video card should have a driver such as "ati" or "nvidia."



Hope this helps,

Let me know if you need anything else.


Cheers!

-Nano

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-03-12
i tried envy also and it didn't work for me.

i found a guy who had the exact same issue here - [http://crunchbanglinux.org/forums/topic/1589/nvidia-woes-only-640x480-screen-sesolution-can-anyone-help/](http://crunchbanglinux.org/forums/topic/1589/nvidia-woes-only-640x480-screen-sesolution-can-anyone-help/) so it looks i am not the only one.

maybe a new version of XServer introduced some bugs?  perhaps the only solution is to wait for jaunty?

cheers.

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-03-13
just to let you know that i managed to resolve the issue.  what i did was:

gtf 1920 1200 60

copy output under monitor settings (xorg.conf)
also set:
HorizSync 30-81
VertRefresh 60

Under section, set Modes "custom" (name of the gtf output).

reboot.

cheers.

---

### Post by c0zm on 2012-01-10
Installing EnvyNG will get your drivers in place in the xorg.conf, but it lacks monitor driver support, often times going with the "plug and play" method, leaving you with a basic template of what to do next, and a normally 640x480 display size.
 
To fix this, run the command **displayconfig-gtk**. Select from there your monitor from the list or just go with a generic device with the screen resolution that you are looking for. logout and restart gtk or restart your computer and then you should be able to set your screen resolution from System > Preferences.

Worked for me, displayconfig-gtk adds a bunch of missing information into that practically blank xorg.conf generated by EnvyNG. All set!

---

