---
title: "11.04 issues with JRE 6"
date: 2011-05-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ada-m on 2011-05-27
I recently installed JRE through Synaptic as the package downloaded directly from Oracle wasn't installing (I read others were having similar issues).  It seems to have installed correctly through Synaptic to /usr/java but when I go to Oracle's verify Java link it says its not detected.  I have tried this both on Chrome and Firefox.

Strangely enough when I click on the installation package that requires JRE (MATLAB student ed 2011a) I get the option to open with IcedTea Java 6 Web Start which produces an error stating "Invalid XML Format There was an error while connecting to the server. Consult the FAQ on the MathWorks Web site for more information."  

I cannot seem to find a solution on MathWorks.com and I was hoping that one of you guys could point me in the right direction.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-28
Here is a walk-through for 11.04, and Java is about 1/3 the way down the list. 

[http://cinderbox.net/2011/04/03/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/](http://cinderbox.net/2011/04/03/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/)

Hopefully that helps..

---

### Post by ada-m on 2011-05-28
Thanks for the reply.  I'm at work right now (being productive) but I'll give a try whe I get home.  
 
Would an XML error usually be indicative of a JRE issue?

---

### Post by ada-m on 2011-05-28
> **linuxinstalledfromhdd said:**
> Here is a walk-through for 11.04, and Java is about 1/3 the way down the list. 

[http://cinderbox.net/2011/04/03/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/](http://cinderbox.net/2011/04/03/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/)

Hopefully that helps..

Thanks again for the reply.  I went ahead and removed the package that I installed for JRE last time and installed the one suggested from that link.  It now registers when I run the check on Oracles site as Java 6 24 which then suggests I upgrade to 25(I'm not sure if that is the issue).  I am still getting the XML error when I try to install MATLAB though.

Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-28
That is the most current version you want running if you still wish to have stablity.

As for your other question have you checked out this page:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MATLAB](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MATLAB)

---

### Post by ada-m on 2011-05-28
It worked. I just redownloaded the MATLAB installer and it opened right up with no error.  Thank you so much!

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-28
You are very welcome. :)

---

### Post by devangel77b on 2011-09-26
The cinderbox link is broken.  How did you fix the Matlab 2011a + JRE in Ubuntu 11.04 issue?  I am trying to install the same; I've got it making the symbolic links OK and it tries to start matlab but fails - complains it can't find JRE and that it doens't know what to do with arch glnxa64.

I checked and Sun Java 6 JRE is installed and working; do I have to set an environment variable in some obscure file somewhere?

---

### Post by ada-m on 2012-02-07
Sorry for the dead link. Its probably to late for the human above but I hope this helps someone in the future:

Method 1

Install openjdk using the following command from your terminal

sudo apt-get install openjdk-7-jre

Install Java for browser – firefox/chrome..

For running applets in your web browsers such as Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome, you need to install icedtea plugin. Execute the following command from your terminal

sudo apt-get install icedtea6-plugin

Method 2

Install Oracle JRE Using PPA

Open the terminal and run the following commands

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ferramroberto/java
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jre sun-java6-plugin sun-java6-fonts

--- via ubuntugeek.com

---

