---
title: "i386 or amd64 ???"
date: 2010-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by madmax.santana on 2010-11-23
Which one should I install?
On the Ubuntu Download Page, i386 is marked "recommended". However, my processor is 64-bit.
Why is and64 recommended? What are the advantages and disadvantages of the amd64 Ubuntu? And which one should I install?

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-11-23
You should install whichever you are most comfortable with. I prefer 64 bit because I have found nothing I run that does not work well in 64 bit Ubuntu. That did not used to be the case, but these days even Adobe Flash works great in 64 bit. However, 32 bit works on most any Intel or AMD computer so it is more recommended because it works on far more machines (because older processors were not 64-bit capable). 32 bit works great and is fast. Personally, I did see a performance gain using 64 bit on my Intel Core i3 with 4GB RAM so I stick with it. And a 64 bit OS will run 32 bit software, but a 32 bit OS will not run 64 bit software. And a 64 bit OS is not limited on how much RAM it will recognize and utilize.
 
Either is great and the choice is yours to make because you want what is most compatible with your needs and hardware. There are plenty of posts on the forums where this has been discussed and you can find many perspectives to review and help you decide. Good luck!

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2010-11-23
> **TBABill said:**
>  And a 64 bit OS will run 32 bit software, but a 32 bit OS will not run 64 bit software. And 
 
it will run it but it will/might run it slower. and since most software is still 32 bit...

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-11-23
Most software is still 32 bit? And you have a machine that runs 32 bit slower? I saw you said "might", just curious if you have a particular program that you know is slower on a 64 bit machine if it is a 32 bit program. My machines are faster in 64 bit than 32 bit regardless what programs I am running, or so it seems.

---

### Post by madmax.santana on 2010-11-23
> **TBABill said:**
> You should install whichever you are most comfortable with. I prefer 64 bit because I have found nothing I run that does not work well in 64 bit Ubuntu. That did not used to be the case, but these days even Adobe Flash works great in 64 bit. However, 32 bit works on most any Intel or AMD computer so it is more recommended because it works on far more machines (because older processors were not 64-bit capable). 32 bit works great and is fast. Personally, I did see a performance gain using 64 bit on my Intel Core i3 with 4GB RAM so I stick with it. And a 64 bit OS will run 32 bit software, but a 32 bit OS will not run 64 bit software. And a 64 bit OS is not limited on how much RAM it will recognize and utilize.
 
Either is great and the choice is yours to make because you want what is most compatible with your needs and hardware. There are plenty of posts on the forums where this has been discussed and you can find many perspectives to review and help you decide. Good luck!
A nice explanation.
I recently bought a laptop with Core-i7 and definitely it is 64-bit. So I guess I will be running 64-bit Ubuntu... :)
Thanks a lot.

---

