---
title: "static ip address problem"
date: 2015-01-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by garyed on 2015-01-20
I've edited my /etc/network/interfaces file & when I do "ifconfig" the static address shows up but i can't connect to the internet. 
I've tried networking restart, I've rebooted several times with no luck. I copied my "inferfaces" file from m my 12.04 version that works just fine just changing the last 3 digits to the address i want. If I put back the original simple "interfaces" file it works fine but I won't have a static ip. Here's a copy of the /etc/networkinterfaces file:
> 
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.139
netmask 255.255.255.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
auto eth0

The original file consists of just the first two lines.
 Is there another file I need to edit?

One more thing is if I do ifconfig eth0 ifup or ifdown I get a message "Hostname lookup failure "

---

### Post by kpatz on 2015-01-20
What's in your 12.04 interfaces file?  It sounds like it worked using that file, but not the one you posted?

Also, post the output of:
```

ifconfig -a
route -n
cat /etc/resolv.conf

```
Post these with both the non-working interfaces file and the "simple" one that only has the two lines.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-01-20
Your router normally reserves IP addresses for DHCP.  All those in effect are already assigned and you cannot use them yourself. 
What range does your DHCP include?

My old router started at 100 and used either 50 or 100. My new Comcast router uses all of them and I have to manually assign address in router as well as in computer.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-01-20
Try assigning it a low address like 192.168.1.6 which most routers do not manage.

What difference does it make what address it has unless you have a lot of devices on your network?  What's the magic of 139?

---

### Post by garyed on 2015-01-20
> **kpatz said:**
> What's in your 12.04 interfaces file?  It sounds like it worked using that file, but not the one you posted?

Also, post the output of:
```

ifconfig -a
route -n
cat /etc/resolv.conf

```
Post these with both the non-working interfaces file and the "simple" one that only has the two lines.

My original post was the 12.04 interfaces file. I copied that & changed .139 to .133 as the last three digits.
Ironically when I went back to the original interfaces file not only did it work but my ipaddress as you can see changed to the static address I was trying to get working but couldn't.
All the outputs are using the working plain interfaces file:
> ~$ ifconfig -a
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr fc:aa:14:76:3e:af  
          inet addr:192.168.1.133  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::feaa:14ff:fe76:3eaf/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:14732 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:11967 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:12307770 (12.3 MB)  TX bytes:1798428 (1.7 MB)
          Interrupt:20 Memory:f7f00000-f7f20000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:65536  Metric:1
          RX packets:2270 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:2270 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:224645 (224.6 KB)  TX bytes:224645 (224.6 KB)

 
When i use the interfaces file i posted the output of ifconfig -a is almost identical with one exception:
The RX bytes & TX bytes is very small for both eth0 & lo, like a few kb. 
> $ route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0

-----------------------------------
cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
search home




---

### Post by garyed on 2015-01-20
I don't think the high address is the problem because  12.04 is using 139 & working fine on the same router but I'll try a lower address & report back.

---

### Post by garyed on 2015-01-20
> **oldfred said:**
> Your router normally reserves IP addresses for DHCP.  All those in effect are already assigned and you cannot use them yourself. 
What range does your DHCP include?

My old router started at 100 and used either 50 or 100. My new Comcast router uses all of them and I have to manually assign address in router as well as in computer.

I have no idea how to check to see if any addresses are reserved. I can get into my router but what would i look for?

---

### Post by papibe on 2015-01-20
Hi garyed?

Is this a desktop or a server? Is NetworkManager installed and/or running?

When Network-Manager is installed changing directly the config files may produce a conflict. If it is installed, you can set a static IP using the GUI tool.

Unfortunately, you can't just set an static IP without coordination with the DHCP server, which in most cases is your router. You have to stay in the same subnet, and use an IP outside of the used range. Go to your router's admin page to get this information. Once there, check if the router supports reservations. If so, leave the computer 'as it was' and set a reservation on the router instead. 

Setting an static IP without coordination with the DHPC server "may" work, but it would be just luck. It may eventually fail one day because it will conflict with another device (phone, tablet, another PC, etc).

You may also need to set the DNS server directly on your interfaces file. Something like this:
```
iface eth0 inet static
    address 192.168.1.139
    ...
    dns-nameservers 192.168.1.1
```
Hope it helps. Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by garyed on 2015-01-20
> **papibe said:**
> Hi garyed?

.........

You may also need to set the DNS server directly on your interfaces file. Something like this:
```
iface eth0 inet static
    address 192.168.1.139
    ...
    dns-nameservers 192.168.1.1
```
Hope it helps. Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

Thanks papibe, adding dns-nameservers worked !!
I rebooted just to be sure everything would reset and walah...
I'm running Ubuntu Studio 14.04 so it's not really a server per say however I am running a LAMP server on it for my website.

---

