---
title: "New to ubuntu and problems with the resolution of the monitor"
date: 2009-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mar_celo on 2009-05-19
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Hi [/FONT][/SIZE]

[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Yesterday I destroyed my Windows and I installed ubuntu 9.04, but I had problems with the resolution of my monitor ViewSonic E70f, it does not allow me to change the resolution, it is blocked 800x600. The system installs the drivers for nvidia, but same thing. I searched on ViewSonic but they do not support linux .. I looked if there were other responses for the same problem and found the same problem with different versions and not as a solution. I saw that someone said in another question to show what it sort from the command and sudo lshw and sudo gedit / etc/X11/xorg.conf, I'll copy them down. If you can help me would be great, it is the first time I use Linux and I do not know what /how to do things.[/FONT][/SIZE]

[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]*-display[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]description: VGA compatible controller[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]product: NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400][/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]vendor: nVidia Corporation[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]physical id: 0[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]version: b2[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]width: 32 bits[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]clock: 66MHz[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]capabilities: pm agp agp-2.0 bus_master cap_list[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]configuration: driver=nvidia latency=248 maxlatency=1 mingnt=5[/FONT][/SIZE]
 
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]#[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# values from the debconf database.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]#[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]#[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# package.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]#[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# here are ignored.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]#[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# again, run the following command:[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg[/FONT][/SIZE]
 
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Section "Monitor"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Identifier "Configured Monitor"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]EndSection[/FONT][/SIZE]
 
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Section "Screen"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Identifier "Default Screen"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Monitor "Configured Monitor"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Device "Configured Video Device"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]DefaultDepth 24[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]EndSection[/FONT][/SIZE]
 
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Section "Module"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Load "glx"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]EndSection[/FONT][/SIZE]
 
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Section "Device"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Identifier "Configured Video Device"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Driver "nvidia"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]Option "NoLogo" "True"[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=3][FONT=Arial]EndSection[/FONT][/SIZE]

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-19
Open Applications -> Terminal
Type in the following (enter your password if it asks you):
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Delete everything from the xorg.conf file. Then copy and paste the stuff below into the xorg.conf file:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "nvidia"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection
```

Finally save (File -> Save).

Then reboot, and then try to change the resolution from System -> Preferences -> Display.

---

### Post by mar_celo on 2009-05-19
I put the code you sent me but it does not work, when I go to system-preferences-display it gives me the following message

your graphics drivers do not allow extensions to use this tool. Want to use the tools of the graphics drivers from the seller at your place? 

And when I go to the application I have only auto, 600x420 and 320x280 and worst of all since the application is to big, it is almost impossible to touch the buttons, the screen moves in all directions

---

### Post by fillintheblanks on 2009-05-19
did you install the latest driver for you video?

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_x86_96.43.11.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_x86_96.43.11.html)

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-05-20
Normally, resolution problems are caused by one of the monitor, the graphics card, or the graphics driver not passing the EDID information to X that lets it automatically set the correct refresh rate, and so it defaults to really low values that won't damage any monitors. You can manually set the values for your monitor by putting the VertRefresh and HorizSync ranges in your xorg.conf. You should be able to get these numbers from the manual or specifications for your monitor. These values go in the "Monitor" Section of xorg.conf.

You can edit xorg.conf with ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``````
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       aa-bb
        VertRefresh     cc-dd
EndSection

```You'll need to replace aa-dd with the values for **your** monitor.

According to [this page]("http://tom.viewsonic.com/support/crtmonitors/e70f/#specs") the values that you want are

```
        HorizSync       30-70
        VertRefresh     50-160
```

---

### Post by kalaharix on 2009-05-20
Hi

Changing xorg.conf is a real black art. I have not been able to get any reliable results since using the utilities which disappeared between 8.04 and 8.10.

It is a very real problem and needs addressing. I am sure there must be countless people like myself who use Ubuntu on spare machines side-by-side with XP through a KVM switch. Ubuntu cannot interogate the screen through a KVM (though I cannot think why) and an easy alternative is really needed.

And before any clever-heads ask the inevitable question: I have plenty of transactional b2b websites which will not work with Linux with or without wine. 

rgds

---

### Post by cybershade on 2009-05-20
the easiest way to configure your monitor resolution is with gtf command:

usage: gtf x y refresh [-v|--verbose] [-f|--fbmode] [-x|--xorgmode]

for example:

```
$: gtf 1280 1024 60

# 1280x1024 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 63.60 kHz; pclk: 108.88 MHz
  Modeline "1280x1024_60.00"  108.88  1280 1360 1496 1712  1024 1025 1028 1060  -HSync +Vsync
```

then you have to copy the whole Modeline row and paste it in your xorg.conf (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) in "Monitor" section. 

```
Section "Monitor"
Modeline "1280x1024_60.00"  108.88  1280 1360 1496 1712  1024 1025 1028 1060  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

```

hope that helps.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-05-20
> **kalaharix said:**
> I have not been able to get any reliable results since using the utilities which disappeared between 8.04 and 8.10.

They are coming back, as I understand it, when they are more robust.

> Ubuntu cannot interogate the screen through a KVM (though I cannot think why)

It's because most KVMs are rubbish and don't pass on the EDID information. Windows can't pick up the details through them either, but you don't notice because it's running in "Generic VGA" mode until you install a "monitor driver" which simply contains the information that should be provided by EDID (and that you might put in xorg.conf if it isn't) and automatically adds it to the Windows registry. That's what Ubuntu's tool did, too - took the information from the "monitor driver" and put it in the appropriate place.

---

### Post by kalaharix on 2009-05-22
Hi,

Hope I am not seen as hi-jacking mar-celo's thread: our problems are exactly the same.

Thanks cybershade: I have done what you advised though I think you have to leave the identifier line in the monitor section to give the screen section something to lock on to. Anyaway I ended up with:
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Modeline "1440x900_60.00"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Works fine on a direct connection but still only give 800x600 through the kvm. I notice that the comments in xorg.conf say "Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings here are ignored." That probably helps :(

Thanks catkiller: when I get the frequency range from th LG W1942S manual, it once again works on a direct connection but gives "out of range error" through the KVM.

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync       28-83
        VertRefresh     56-75
EndSection

BUT !!!!

When I change the frquency range to the exact frequency for the resolution (from the LG manual), it works through the KVM at the required 1440x900. :)x2

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync       55.935
        VertRefresh     60
EndSection

I'll say it again: for a non-geek distribution like Ubuntu this is no-way an adequate solution.

rgds

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-05-22
> **kalaharix said:**
> 
Thanks catkiller: when I get the frequency range from th LG W1942S manual, it once again works on a direct connection but gives "out of range error" through the KVM.

EDID passes more than just the refresh rates; there's DPI and Clock Frequency values too, as well as others that I can't recall at the moment. My monitor actually gives the wrong information rather than giving none at all, so I have to have ```
        Option          "UseEDID"                       "False"
``` in the "Device" Section.

> I'll say it again: for a non-geek distribution like Ubuntu this is no-way an adequate solution.

What exactly do you propose as a solution? EDID is **supposed** to have been used to automatically set modes and it's been around for 15 years. It's not a software problem. Monitor manufacturers could have got their stuff together long before now and it wouldn't be a problem.

---

### Post by b747pete on 2009-06-10
After countless hours reading posts regarding resolution, I decided to try cutting the KVM out of the equation.

Now I have my Vista machine connected to the DVI input and the 8.04 machine connected to the VGA input I can connect the keyboard and mouse with KVM and use the Digital/Analog button on the side of the monitor.
'
Now my Viewsonic VX2255WMB is automatically detected;) and works.

Hope this helps somebody.

Peter

---

