---
title: "12.0.4 LTS Server console resolution after boot"
date: 2014-08-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Cool_Javelin on 2014-08-31
Hi:

Is there a way to dynamically change the console resolution after boot?

I don't have x graphics installed.

Thanks, Mark.

---

### Post by claracc on 2014-08-31
I think, this link: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/299975/proper-way-to-change-terminal-resolution-in-ubuntu-server-13-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/299975/proper-way-to-change-terminal-resolution-in-ubuntu-server-13-04) can be useful for changing the resolution of console.

---

### Post by Cool_Javelin on 2014-08-31
Thanks, claracc, I did come across this, but it is not dynamic, It requires a change and a reboot.

I was hoping there was a way to change it in the fly without rebooting.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Cool_Javelin on 2014-09-11
Any other help here?

I have tried and tried to change my console resolution using the grub commands but grub simply isn't sophisticated enough to properly handle all the issues that can be encountered.

There are hundreds, nay thousands, of threads and posts attempting to handle this problem in all versions of Ubuntu, yet, the powers that be seem never to be able to put the time and/or effort into fixing it right. I see the next version is scheduled to come out in November. Does anyone care to place a wager on that version still having these exact same problems?

**Is there a method I can use to change the console resolution AFTER IT HAS BOOTED, dynamically?**

If so, #1, how can I find out the available resolutions my video hardware supports, (not just what grub thinks exists, but what actually exists,) and #2, how do I go about changing the resolution WITHOUT REBOOTING?

It would be ideal if I could press ALT-F1 and get one resolution, then press ALT-F2 and have another resolution, but that may be asking too much.

Thanks for any help you can offer on this subject.

Mark.

---

