---
title: "9.10 disable/change &quot;Login Screen Ready&quot; sound"
date: 2009-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mab1376 on 2009-10-24
does anyone know how to go about this?

---

### Post by Aero-Z on 2009-10-24
I recommend using the the forum's search feature to find answer for this.
But most simple way is to remove ubuntu-sounds.
```
sudo apt-get remove ubuntu-sounds
```

PS. This removes all Ubuntu sounds (I personally don't use them anyways).

---

### Post by mab1376 on 2009-10-24
but will it stop me from having sounds at all?

i.e. if i install another sound theme to /usr/share/sounds

---

### Post by Aero-Z on 2009-10-24
> **mab1376 said:**
> but will it stop me from having sounds at all?

i.e. if i install another sound theme to /usr/share/sounds
As far as I know it only removes Ubuntu default sounds. Try it out. You can always reinstall the package :)

---

### Post by mab1376 on 2009-10-24
> **Aero-Z said:**
> As far as I know it only removes Ubuntu default sounds. Try it out. You can always reinstall the package :)

removed the package, my other sound set still works fine, thanks!

Empathy stopped being able to make sounds since Ubuntu recoded pidgin to be their own and use sounds through the system theme, so I just installed pidgin instead.

---

### Post by Keairolas on 2009-10-31
Found the solution.

It's an option in Startup Applications.  System > Preferences > Startup Applications

---

### Post by mab1376 on 2009-10-31
that can disable just that one sound?

---

### Post by zacharydanger on 2009-11-08
> **mab1376 said:**
> that can disable just that one sound?

No, and I recommend against it. For whatever reason they "simplified" the login screen settings manager which keeps you from doing some stuff easily.

To actually disable the "login ready" sound you need to edit your /etc/gdm/custom.conf file. Under the [greeter] section add the line:

```
SoundOnLogin=false
```

gdm has to be restarted for this to take effect. I'm sure you can do this from the command line, but restarting your computer will work just fine, too.

---

### Post by Flywaver on 2009-11-22
> **zacharydanger said:**
> To actually disable the "login ready" sound you need to edit your /etc/gdm/custom.conf file. Under the [greeter] section add the line:

```
SoundOnLogin=false
```


There is no custom.conf file in /etc/gdm! :(
This login sound is annoying....its way too loud!

---

### Post by firedrake on 2009-11-23
Hi all...
As this is my first post , making people happy will be a good start....

alt+F2
gconf-editor

untick the *active* key in order to **disable the login ready drums sound** in
 /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/settings-manager-plugins/sound/


Enjoy!:popcorn:

---

### Post by jithinkr on 2009-11-24
I tried the above. But after restarting the drum sound welcomes me. Help!

---

### Post by VCoolio on 2009-11-24
If you change gconf-editor, you do so for your user; but your user isn't active yet in the login screen, that's gdm ruling it all. So either try 

sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --type bool --set /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/settings-manager-plugins/sound/ false

or remove / rename the sound in /usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo , it's the one that is a shortcut.

---

### Post by ZOMGxuan on 2009-11-30
The above solutions are all good if you want to remove the login ready sound, but after some poking around, I found a way to change the sound without resorting to the workaround of replacing the file /usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo/system-ready.ogg. This only works if you have another sound theme you want to use, however.

For example, I personally prefer the ubuntu studio sound theme, so I installed that without installing the associated configuration files contained in ubuntustudio-default-settings. I was perfectly capable of changing the sound theme within a Gnome session (i.e. after login) by using System->Preferences->Sounds, but I could not change the login ready sound for GDM, as it is for all users, and is controlled by the pseudo-user gdm.

For some reason you cannot run gconf-editor properly as the user gdm, but in either case, the gconf key that needs to be changed is
/desktop/gnome/sound/theme_name. This should be changed to the name of your sound theme. In my case, I changed it from *ubuntu* to *ubuntustudio*.

To change this key, do:
```

sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --type string --set /desktop/gnome/sound/theme_name yourthemename
```

Hope that helped at least a few people.

---

### Post by VCoolio on 2009-11-30
Yesterday I stumbled upon this file /usr/share/gdm/autostart/LoginWindow/libcanberra-ready-sound.desktop. You could try if editing this and pointing to the sound you want works. (sorry, I'm indeed too lazy to try myself, but also I disabled all those annoying libcanberra sounds so I'd have to re-enable those first, too much trouble)

---

### Post by arepisky on 2009-12-07
Thank you ZOMGxuan, this works.

---

### Post by nanonils on 2010-01-03
1st: alt+F2 to open gconf-editor
2nd: untick the active key in order to disable the login ready drums sound in /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/settings-manager-plugins/sound/
3rd: must reboot

---

### Post by mpm on 2010-01-16
Vcoolio seems to have the simplest option for removing the meeting interrupting noises:

in the terminal:
gksudo nautilus

in nautilus
go to filesystem/usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo
find the sound you don't want and remove or rename it.
thanks Vcoolio!

---

### Post by frogotronic on 2010-02-06
> **VCoolio said:**
> If you change gconf-editor, you do so for your user; but your user isn't active yet in the login screen, that's gdm ruling it all. So either try 

sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --type bool --set /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/settings-manager-plugins/sound/ false

or remove / rename the sound in /usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo , it's the one that is a shortcut.

Actually you need to pull the last slash

```
sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --type bool --set /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/settings-manager-plugins/sound false
```

- CH

Nope, my mistake doesn't work

---

### Post by shawnerz on 2012-07-08
I know this thread is almost 3 years old.  But, I used Vcoolio's suggestion.  I edited (with gedit) the file /usr/share/gdm/autostart/LoginWindow.
The old line:
```
Exec=/usr/bin/canberra-gtk-play --id="system-ready" --description="GNOME System Ready"
```

The new line:
```

#Exec=/usr/bin/canberra-gtk-play --id="system-ready" --description="GNOME System Ready"

```

I hope that helps.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2012-07-08
shawnerz,

We'll let yours be the last word on this topic, as 9.10 is no longer supported.

Thread Closed.

---

