---
title: "can't display chinese in one NTF driver"
date: 2007-08-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xiang on 2007-08-31
Hi all

My system is 7.04. I have installed the Chinese language support and the input and display of Chinese work well in the linux system. The question is:

I have two windows NTF partitions, they were automounted as "system" and "data" at /media/system and /media/host after installation by wubi. It's strange that Chinese is supported at "system" but not at "data", that, directories and files with Chinese name can't be seen. However, the mount option in my /etc/fstab is the same for "system" and "data",  below is my fstab:

-------------------------------------------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
/media/host/wubi/disks/system.virtual.disk / ext3 loop,sync 0 1
/media/host/wubi/disks/home.virtual.disk /home ext3 loop,sync 0 2
/media/host/wubi/disks/swap.virtual.disk none swap sw 0 0
**/dev/sda5 /media/host ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0**
**/dev/sda1 /media/system ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0**
--------------------------------------------

I have also changed en_US to zh_CN but can't resolve the problem.

The only difference between "system" and "data" is that, "system" is windows xp system driver and wubi is installed in "data". 

Thanks for any helpful suggestions in advance.

---

### Post by xiang on 2007-09-01
The problem is still there. But I find another clue, that, when I type df in terminal (the output is listed below), /dev/sda5 (mounted at /media/host) is not displayed. However, /dev/sda5 can be seen in gparted.

With this clue, can someone tell what's wrong?

Thanks

-----------------
[xiang@ ~]? df
Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/media/host/wubi/disks/system.virtual.disk
                       3844864   3033920    615632  84% /
varrun                 1037468       108   1037360   1% /var/run
varlock                1037468         0   1037468   0% /var/lock
procbususb             1037468       136   1037332   1% /proc/bus/usb
udev                   1037468       136   1037332   1% /dev
devshm                 1037468         0   1037468   0% /dev/shm
lrm                    1037468     33788   1003680   4% /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile
/media/host/wubi/disks/home.virtual.disk
                       8651084   3795884   4415748  47% /home
/dev/sda1             20480008  16518536   3961472  81% /media/system

-----------------

---

### Post by tuxcantfly on 2007-09-01
the reason the data partition is mounted as en_US is because it is mounted before the fstab and init process, since it's the host drive and is mounted by the initrd. So, no matter what you put in the fstab, it's not going to affect that partition. Similarly, the reason it doesn't show up in df was because it was mounted by the initrd, before the root filesystem was.

The only way you could do it is to build the zh_CN locale into the initrd, and modify the mount command to mount with the zh_CN locale option. You could do it by modifying the files in /etc/initramfs-tools (it's the file called lupin-fuctions within the scripts folder), and regenerating the initrd

If you ask me, it's too much of a hassle to bother with; I'd just transfer your install to a dedicated partition with LVPM at [http://lubi.sourceforge.net/lvpm.html](http://lubi.sourceforge.net/lvpm.html) so that it behaves normally and doesn't suffer the usual loopmounting quirks and then you can just use the approach you've been using (modify fstab) normally for both partitions, and it'll work normally with the zh_CN locale since it's a standard install not a loopmounted one.

---

### Post by xiang on 2007-09-03
Thanks tuxcantfly.

Now I know the reason, although the way to regenerate the initrd is too hard for me. I searched "initrd" in "lupin-functions", but it's difficult for me to read. 

As for LVPM, for the safety of the data, I hesitate to resize the real partition. 
BTW, I tested LVPM by resizing one virtual disk, but it frozen the whole system (not just LVPM itself) when copy file. The issue of resizing virtual disk with the frozen problem has been discussed in the forum and it is said that LVPM can deal with now. But it seems that the frozen problem is still there, at least on my machine (thinkpad t60, windows xp). 

Tentatively, I will wait for an easy and convenient method to handle it.

---

### Post by tormod on 2008-05-05
BTW, this has been reported in [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/136682](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/136682) and we are working on a fix.

---

