---
title: "11.04 - Unity and lost l/h pane"
date: 2011-07-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AmpersUK on 2011-07-22
I use Unity 11.04 on a 64-bit machine with 8Gig and a TB hard drive, so resources shouldn't be a problem.

The pane on the left hand side (showing my computer main folders has disappeared when I click on "Home Folder". So has the ability to have two panels. I can see the hole folders but not any of the extra folders (dragged folders or usb sticks).

I now use Krusader which solves most of my problems.

However there is a folder of files I use a lot, so before I lost this ability I had draged the folder to the left hand column showing all my folders.

Now I can't access the folder I had dragged to the left hand panel, and it seems to have disappeared from its original place.

Can anyone give me a clue where this folder could be as I am desperate

Thanks,

Ampers..

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-07-22
Try F9 with the Home folder opened.

---

### Post by AmpersUK on 2011-07-22
> **howefield said:**
> Try F9 with the Home folder opened.

Thanks for the speedy reply, No, it didn't work I also tried it with using the alt and ctrl keys, zilch I'm afraid.

Ampers.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-07-22
What you are experiencing is standard for Unity.

Open the home folder. Go to Places and select File System. Right click the File system icon and select Open with Other application. Then select File Browser and you will get the old style Nautilus browser window with the left side panel. That should give you access to those missing folders.

Also, you can at login select Ubuntu Classic and things will work as they did before Unity took over. Click on your user name and select from a menu on the bottom panel.

Regards

P.S. Here is a quicker way. Open the home folder and right click any folder and select Browse Folder and you get the old style Nautilus back for a while.

---

### Post by camaron1 on 2011-07-22
Have you tried going to **View>Side Panel**?

---

### Post by AmpersUK on 2011-07-22
> **grahammechanical said:**
> What you are experiencing is standard for Unity.

Open the home folder. Go to Places and select File System. Right click the File system icon and select Open with Other application. Then select File Browser and you will get the old style Nautilus browser window with the left side panel. That should give you access to those missing folders.

Also, you can at login select Ubuntu Classic and things will work as they did before Unity took over. Click on your user name and select from a menu on the bottom panel.

Regards

P.S. Here is a quicker way. Open the home folder and right click any folder and select Browse Folder and you get the old style Nautilus back for a while.

First of all I want to stay with Unity as I have every confidence that Mark Shuttleworth will get things right in the end.

Home Folder/places - there is no File Systems icon there is no File System icon there.

But your PS works a treat and I will use that until things are sorted.

Thanks

---

### Post by AmpersUK on 2011-07-22
> **camaron1 said:**
> Have you tried going to **View>Side Panel**?

Good heavens no, that was the first thing I tried :-)

---

