---
title: "11.04 theme?"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Scars75 on 2011-04-30
I just upgraded to 11.04 last night. I'm fine with it, but have 1 problem.

What's up with the theme? If I try changing it through appearance preferences, nothing happens.

---

### Post by Scars75 on 2011-05-01
Bump...

---

### Post by Scars75 on 2011-05-04
Nice, now I can't move or resize my windows cause there;s no top bar(that bar with the minimize, maximize, and close buttons)

---

### Post by 5149.5 on 2011-05-04
> **Scars75 said:**
> Nice, now I can't move or resize my windows cause there;s no top bar(that bar with the minimize, maximize, and close buttons)

That has happened to me a couple of times now. I've gotten very hesitant to change anything in Compiz.

---

### Post by nvjopsddhapnv on 2011-05-06
This is because of the unity dock ... You have to use the extreme left corner option. Or You can use key board shortcut for that ( Alt + space + X = maximize and Alt + Space + n = minimize and you can select the different open window by using Alt + Tab option) ... Otherwise if you do not like the unity dock then do the following
1) Go to System > Administartion > login screen 
2) unlock it
3) [IMG]http://img815.imageshack.us/img815/7977/screenshot1kc.png[/IMG]
change the login type as Ubuntu Classic or Ubuntu Classic (No effects), this will give you back the panel application (like 10.10 or th earlier version)
Enjoy using ubuntu!

---

### Post by Scars75 on 2011-05-15
> **chemrajib said:**
> This is because of the unity dock ... You have to use the extreme left corner option. Or You can use key board shortcut for that ( Alt + space + X = maximize and Alt + Space + n = minimize and you can select the different open window by using Alt + Tab option) ... Otherwise if you do not like the unity dock then do the following
1) Go to System > Administartion > login screen 
2) unlock it
3) [IMG]http://img815.imageshack.us/img815/7977/screenshot1kc.png[/IMG]
change the login type as Ubuntu Classic or Ubuntu Classic (No effects), this will give you back the panel application (like 10.10 or th earlier version)
Enjoy using ubuntu!
I still have the windows 2000 looking theme /:
I have that on Ubuntu, Ubuntu classic, and ubuntu classic(no effects)

---

