---
title: "500 GB's"
date: 2010-09-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2010-09-25
Hello people 10.04 is still working well on my ToshibA QosmiO G20. I am thinking of changing the hard disk from 80 GB's to a nice new 500 GB's ! am I being reasonable here or should I not even think about it ? Regards...............


:)

---

### Post by macem29 on 2010-09-25
if the puter is working ok I'd go with an external HDD for storage alone...
an 80 is plenty for OS and apps, but it is prolly a little old and a newer one
will likely have faster seek times...just my 2 cents, personally I'd skip the
hassle of transferring to a new drive and have portability of your content

---

### Post by jjakspaw6 on 2010-09-25
Unless there is a problem with the older drive I would leave the the 80GB the way it is and use the 500 for storage. 
I Find using small drives better for an OS. It makes normal maintenance, backups and bare metal restores much faster.

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2010-09-26
The ToshibA QosmiO G20 is a laptop computer, according to Google. As such, an external drive might not be convenient. Personally, I'd go for a drive swap -- but I'm also experienced with such things, so I wouldn't have problems transferring the system to the new drive. If you understand how to hook up both drives simultaneously, you could try something like [Clonezilla](http://clonezilla.org/) to do the drive cloning.

---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2010-09-26
Cheers 'Dark' I will indeed try to use CloneZillA.

---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2010-09-26
Thanks very much for the advice.

---

