---
title: "12.04 kernels after 3.2.0-95 will not boot on Asus 1015e-DS02"
date: 2016-12-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by a__l__a__n on 2016-12-21
The title says it all.

The boot sequence freezes on any kernel after 3.2.0-95.  That includes the current kernel Linux Mint 18.1.  So I want to know what changed after 3.2.0-95.  I'd love to find some kernel switch to turn off whatever lovely new feature is causing my headache.  I've been limping along with this old kernel for quite awhile now but as security issues mount I'm losing patience with this machine.  Before shelling out the price of another laptop I thought I'd check here to see if there is a feasible workaround.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-12-22
Is it time for a fresh install of 16.04.1?

---

### Post by a__l__a__n on 2016-12-27
> **mörgæs said:**
> Is it time for a fresh install of 16.04.1?

Haven't tried that specific build.  But I've tried booting from Linux Mint 18.1 on a USB drive without success.  As well as many other editions over the past year or two.

As a last ditch effort I may try a clean reinstall but I think there's a better than even chance I'll end up with a paperweight -- unless I can identify the cause of the boot failures.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-12-27
If you are skeptical then a live boot of 16.04.1 will tell. It's slow hardware so maybe Lubuntu is the best option.

---

### Post by a__l__a__n on 2017-01-18
Ok here's an update.  I found a recommendation to try the Manjaro distribution because it has excellent hardware detection capabilities and usually works on hardware when other distributions do not. That proved to be the case with my laptop.  So I can now get ongoing updates on this finicky old laptop.  The downside is that it's not nearly as simple as Ubuntu.  Basic things like auto mounting of USB devices requires googling around and experimenting with different approaches until something works.  It's designed more for hardcore Linux tinkerers.  I've spent a lot of years doing that sort of thing, but at this stage of life I just want the computer to be a tool, not a project.  

I'm not totally convinced that the relatively small group of Manjaro maintainers will always be there to provide updates.  There's something to be said for having a company standing behind the distribution.  But at least it works today on my hardware.

---

