---
title: "[SOLVED] Change owner and/or mount"
date: 2007-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MacDuff on 2007-10-11
My LAN has four computers:
One Ubuntu 7.04 box containing one hard drive formatted ext3, and a second hard drive formatted NTFS); 
2 Windows XP computers
1 dual boot computer (Ubuntu 7.04 and XP)   

I want to allow any computer (which is logged in with the appropriate names/passwords) unrestricted access to the ntfs hard drive on the Ubuntu computer.

At present, some accesss rights are not available to computers on the lan (cannot create directories).  When I run "fdisk" ntfs drive (sda1) shows up as being  a Linux drive, yet the Gnome Partion Editor tells me it is formatted ntfs and fstab correctly identifies sda1 as being ntfs so I am a bit confused.
  
FIRST QUESTION: Is there a problem (or potential problem) here? 
 
ac@ubu-comm:~$ sudo fdisk -l
Disk /dev/sda: 164.6 GB, 164696555520 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 20023 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       20023   160834716   83  Linux

Disk /dev/hdb: 200.0 GB, 200049647616 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24321 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdb1               1        7931    63705726   83  Linux
/dev/hdb2   *        7932       23650   126262867+  83  Linux
/dev/hdb3           23651       24321     5389807+   5  Extended
/dev/hdb5           23651       24321     5389776   82  Linux swap / Solaris
mac@ubu-comm:~$ 



mac@ubu-comm:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb2 :
UUID=814e801c-320a-4130-8d29-5787d967b7a9 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=ad7a3348-7766-44c7-9347-ed6a7891eb76 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Data\040Backup ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
mac@ubu-comm:~$ 

SECOND QUESTION:
I believe I must edit the last line of fstab to change the way the ntfs drive mounts.  Can I mount it to root or must it be mounted to a directory?

I assume I must replace "defaults" with something like "async,auto,dev,exec,users,rw" and possibly "uid=1000"

So before I actually screw anything up, here is what I think the last line should be assuming I want to call the drive "Data" (or must I call it something else that the system has already defined?):
 
/dev/sda1 /Data ntfs-3g async,auto,dev,exec,users,rw,uid=1000, locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0

I would appreciate it if someone would point out any problems and any better way(s) to auto-mount the drive to make it fully accessible to all computers on the LAN.

---

### Post by bigboy_pdb on 2007-10-11
First of all, I should mention that I'm not an extensive user of ntfs-3g so if you feel uncomfortable about what I'm writing (even though everything after the following paragraph is from the ntfs-3g site) then you should probably wait for further responses from other people who are extensive users of it.

It might be a good idea to try mounting the drive to see if Linux is properly reading the drive. It shouldn't mount it if it can't recognize the file system. If you're worried about writing to the disk you could mount it as "read only". The URL from the following paragraph has information on how to do it from the command line using ntfs-3g.

To see how to edit the fstab file for ntfs-3g you might want to look at this web page:
[http://www.ntfs-3g.org/index.html#usage](http://www.ntfs-3g.org/index.html#usage)

You should also be aware of a problem that they mentioned in the fstab with using the user/users options, which can be found here:
[http://www.ntfs-3g.org/support.html#useroption2](http://www.ntfs-3g.org/support.html#useroption2)

Also, it would be a good idea to look at the man page for the program. You should be able to access it using "man ntfs-3g".

---

### Post by MacDuff on 2007-10-12
Thank you bigboy_pdb:

That looks like excellent information.  I will put it to use today.  Much obliged.

Mac

---

### Post by MacDuff on 2007-10-12
I tried to use the suggested  instructions but only received manual pages or error messages that the mount point was not found.

In the fstab file this is the line that auto-mounts the drive.
/dev/sda1 /media/Data\040Backup ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
It was created when I installed Ubuntu on the system and I believe the drive was originally named "Backup". ( I don't know how to change the drive name in Ubuntu.)

When the system starts, the drive mounts and is called "backup" in the file manager.  I do not know why the drive is referred to as "Data\040Backup" in the fstab file and I am not sure if it is important but it adds more confusion as far as I am concerned.

I have un-mounted the drive and tried to manually mount it using the suggested command:
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /mnt/Backup   but that command did not work.

Next I tried manually mounting it using the command:
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /media/Data\040Backup   but that also failed.

When I use Gparted to view partition information it is shown as "/dev/sda1", the filesystem is shown as "ntfs" the Mountpoint is shown as "/media/Data Backup"
and it is shown as  "boot", if that means anything.

The instructions provided by bigboy_pdb seemed simple enough, even for me, but they don't work.  Is there some quirk in Ubuntu that I need to take into account to fix this problem?

One of the frustrating things about making the transition to Linux is that instructions often are created for a particular flavor of Linux and do not work exactly the same in some other distro arrrghhhh!  

:

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-10-12
Well, the good news is that across distro's much of the command line remains the same.

If you have an entry in fstab, you can mount by device (or label or uuid)

```
sudo mount /dev/sda1
```

Now part of the problem is with ntfs as it does not support ownership or permissions.

Ownership and permissions are set at the time of mounting, either in fstab or on the command line :

fstab :> /dev/sda1 /media/Data\040Backup ntfs-3g uid=1000,gid=100,umask=007,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0

mount > mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /media/Data\040Backup -o uid=1000,gid=100,umask=007,locale=en_CA.UTF-8

the mount point is unusual is all.

for more information see : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131)

---

### Post by bigboy_pdb on 2007-10-12
MacDuff, it might be a good idea to minimize the number of problems that could occur. In this situation, I think that you should first try to use a mount point with no spaces in the path (meaning that none of the folders should have spaces) because that could be a cause for problems. Also, make certain that your mount point exists because if it doesn't the system won't mount. For example, if you use "/mnt/win" then there should be a folder called "win" in the folder "mnt". Furthermore, before you try to mount the file system in the fstab, it might be a good idea to first try mounting it from the command line.

---

### Post by MacDuff on 2007-10-12
Well I think it is working but not the way I would prefer.

The fix was to simply edit the line in fstab to make it just as suggested by bodhi.zazen
/dev/sda1 /media/Data\040Backup ntfs-3g uid=1000,gid=100,umask=007,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0

When I tried to change the first part to /dev/sda1 /media/Backup (in order to simplify the mount point as suggested by  bigboy_pdb)  it would not work.  The drive showed up but I could not even view any of the files, let alone change anything.   Frustrated?  Do you think so?

Bodhi:  I have a book (Ubuntu Linux Bible by William von Hagen, one of four that I have purchased on Ubuntu) which does not suggest anything like what you recommended (which seems to work so far).  That is what I mean by apparent lack of consistency in commands.   To those of us new to Linux there appear to be numerous contradictions.  

I love Ubuntu but there are times when I wonder if I will ever master the intricacies necessary to become a reasonably proficient administrator of even a simple network.

I tried to change the mount point but then the drive would not mount at all. At on time I had it mounting at /mnt/win but some other problem cropped up so I went back to the original mount point,  as created by Ubuntu itself.  

As it is now the drive is buried in the .media directory but all machines seem to have unrestricted access to it.
I would have preferred it to appear one level higher in the tree (IE not as /media/Backup but as /Backup but I don't know if that is possible.   If it is would you please let me know the secret.

Thanks for your help
Mac

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-10-12
I understand, it can be confusing at first :)

That is where the forums com in, there are so many knowledgeable folks willing to help ...

To change the mount point :

unmount the partition :```
sudo umount /dev/sda1
```

Make the desired mount point:```
sudo mkdir /Backup
```

Edit fstab:> /dev/sda1 /Backup ntfs-3g uid=1000,gid=100,umask=007,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0

Mount:```
sudo mount /Backup
```[indent]or "sudo mount -a" or "sudo mount /dev/sda1" ... [/indent]

If you have any problem, you may need to reboot, but I would be surprised ....


Oh, and for security reasons you may want to make your backups ro and owned by root ...

One last thing, in Linux there are usually multiple ways of doing things, and ofter one is no better then any other ... usually just a matter of style or preference ;)

---

### Post by MacDuff on 2007-10-13
Well the light may have finally dawned!!

I have been over this route before (more than a month ago) and seemed to hit a blank wall, so I went on to other things.   Finally the matter had to be addressed and again I seemed to not be able to accomplish want I wanted.   The principle is very simple but I just could not grasp it, possibly because I was AFRAID to experiment for fear I would loose data or mess up the system in some irrecoverable way.

Your guidance (for the second time, I am ashamed to admit) has finally paid off.  This morning I played around with changing mount points and permissions using the command line and all my data is still safe and sound.  There were times when I could not find it immediately but it was always there where I had put it (even if I sometimes got mixed up as to where that was).

Thank you for your patience.  Hopefully the next hurdle, whatever it may be, will be less of a struggle.

Mac

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-10-13
> **MacDuff said:**
> Well the light may have finally dawned!!

I have been over this route before (more than a month ago) and seemed to hit a blank wall, so I went on to other things.   Finally the matter had to be addressed and again I seemed to not be able to accomplish want I wanted.   The principle is very simple but I just could not grasp it, possibly because I was AFRAID to experiment for fear I would loose data or mess up the system in some irrecoverable way.

Your guidance (for the second time, I am ashamed to admit) has finally paid off.  This morning I played around with changing mount points and permissions using the command line and all my data is still safe and sound.  There were times when I could not find it immediately but it was always there where I had put it (even if I sometimes got mixed up as to where that was).

Thank you for your patience.  Hopefully the next hurdle, whatever it may be, will be less of a struggle.

Mac

LOL, I know the feeling. The rabbit hole is deep, however, once you start understanding the basics it all starts to click.

Feel free to ask for help when you hit the wall , that is what these forums are for :guitar:

---

