---
title: "11.10 - Unable to Enable Alt+F2 Run"
date: 2011-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LandisTwo on 2011-12-30
Hello, 
In System Settings>Keyboard>Shortcuts>System I am unable to enable the 'Show the run command prompt' . It is *Disabled *, But,, unlike the 'switch to desktop 1' option that i was able to click on and change, this one's 'Disabled' is Italicized and nothing happens when I click on it.. and being, in ubuntu and gnome there is no 'root' account to login to, ??? 

any solutions?

thanks in advance, 
Landis.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-12-30
The command prompt is disabled by default in Gnome . Open system settings > keyboard > shortcuts > system . Click on the show run command prompt line and press the key combination you would like to use as the shortcut .

---

### Post by LandisTwo on 2011-12-30
thanks, but I said it is *Italicized *and will NOT let me 'enable' it.
It does Nothing when I click on it.. 

Landis

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-12-30
Sorry about that  , this is a permission problem so you may have to use the terminal to run commands . You can't enable the command prompt with user permissions . Whoops !

---

### Post by corncob on 2011-12-30
Is not the run command prompt in 11.10 the same as the Search prompt on the dash?  That's what alt F2 brings up on my computer and I'm using it as such.

---

### Post by LandisTwo on 2011-12-30
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> .. this is a permission problem so you may have to use the terminal to run commands . You can't enable the command prompt with user permissions . Whoops !

Yes, I figured a permissions issue, but being that ubuntu and gnome have NO root account to login to how to change it.. 

ubuntu and gnome are too simplistic. 
They must be for user desktops that you don't want touching anything and the all the changes, additions of apps, profiles are done elsewhere via command line and scripts.. 

This is just no a 'power users' desktop!

sorry ubuntu, gnome community.. this is frustrating.... grrrr

Landis.

---

