---
title: ".dmrc error and completely empty home?"
date: 2006-02-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Aikinai on 2006-02-22
Hi, I installed Ubuntu for an old server awhile ago and I liked it so much, I decided to use it for my laptop. I'm having a bad error that won't let me log in though.

The error I get is the $HOME/.dmrc error and I've read all the posts about that, but I think I have a bigger problem. If I do an ls -a on my home directory I don't see any files, just . .. and /stuff which is a FAT32 partition I wanted to share with Windows. Shouldn't there be lots of hidden (dot files?) in there? Is there a way to repair that? I think I remember seeing a "repair dot files" session type on machines at school.

If it helps clarify anything else, here's some other information:

I have one partition for Windows (NTFS), one for Ubuntu (ReiserFS), one for swap, and one for files (FAT32).

This is actually my second bad installation, in the first I got stuck in a loop trying to create my user account (after the password it went back to asking my name). I finally broke out of that and manually created the account after the install finished so I thought that caused the error that time. I thought the problem was having a FAT32 partition for /home, so for this install I mounted it to /home/username/stuff. Maybe that's what broke it again; if no one responds to this, I guess I'll try telling it to mount that FAT32 somewhere else during installation and then move it later if everything boots up okay.

Thanks a lot for any help.

---

### Post by Aikinai on 2006-02-22
Nevermind, I just fixed it. Root owned my home directory for some reason and since I'd never logged in, Gnome could never make any of the hidden files in the first place. Not sure what caused it, but that was the solution. I was going to delete my thread, but I don't see a way to do that. If a moderator wants to delete this thread, go ahead, or you can leave it up in case it helps anyone else. Thanks.

---

