---
title: "9.10 acpi issues"
date: 2009-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sccolbert on 2009-08-19
Hi, 

I have a laptop where, with jaunty I needed to set a grub config in menu.lst so that acpi_osi="!Windows 2006" so my backlight brightness keys would work. 

With grub2, its seems that's not yet possible due to this bug:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/411597](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/411597)

is there a way around this programmatically? Right now, my screen is locked on the lowest brightness. After the fresh install however, the screen was at max brightness. It went to the lowest brightness after a hibernation and restarts dont bring it back. 

Since Hal is now deprecated, all my googling has turned up nothing. 

Any help is appreciated. I don't need interactive control of the brightness, i just need to set it higher than this, which is barely readable....


Cheers!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-08-19
Yes, it is possible.

I wasn't able to get Grub 2 to automatically generate the correct output in 10_linux via update-grub, but I am not an expert on syntax issues.

However, I can get the results you want by adding the entry to a custom menu entry.

For /etc/grub.d/40_custom, I made the following entry, which produced what you want in grub.cfg after update-grub was run. 

Change the specifics (UUID, kernel, hdX, etc):
> 
#!/bin/sh

echo "Adding Custom ACPI Entry" >&2
cat << EOF
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-5-generic Custom ACPI" {
	set root=(hd0,2)
	search --fs-uuid --set 7848138a-41a0-4eba-8aed-d1b625ac8759
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-5-generic root=UUID=78b161e2-4d82-4df7-a423-8289fe6cc704 ro acpi_osi="!Windows 2006" quiet splash   
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-5-generic
}
EOF


Make the file executable and run update-grub to add this custom entry to the menu.

---

