---
title: "18.04 encription"
date: 2018-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mcsheffrey on 2018-08-11
Having a lot of trouble finding out if 18.04 uses any ecription of data. I've read so many conflicting info, it uses eCruptfs[FONT=Ubuntu Light, Ubuntu, arial, sans-serif][COLOR=#5e5e5e], and it doesn't use it, which is it ??
I have never knowingly done any encripting. Wondering if I will still be able to use "dropbox" after November. [/COLOR][/FONT]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-08-11
If you used it, you would know.  You can check by using the **lsblk** command.
Before you can login, there is an unlock disk password prompt.

If dropbox can't/won't support encrypted storage that has been unlocked, which I find very doubtful since they just don't need to do anything special for it to work, I'd keep the encryption and drop dropbox for any of the 50 other solutions.

---

### Post by mcsheffrey on 2018-08-11
Thanks for the response, I hope your right. They will only support an unencripted/vanilla ext4 file system in linux after November. Now I don't use this to store my banking information or anything like that, all info that no one would care about, but very easy way to share with other people.  Tks Roy

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-08-11
I hope you use a liveCD to do online banking, not your daily driver.  
[https://krebsonsecurity.com/online-banking-best-practices-for-businesses/](https://krebsonsecurity.com/online-banking-best-practices-for-businesses/)

And taking over a PC isn't usually about the files on it for home users, it is worth much more, especially linux systems, for other tasks. [https://krebsonsecurity.com/2012/10/the-scrap-value-of-a-hacked-pc-revisited/](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2012/10/the-scrap-value-of-a-hacked-pc-revisited/)

But you likely know these things already.

I have a simple saying - "live by the cloud, die by the cloud."

---

