---
title: "12.04 Server doesn't display Chinese Language over Samba share to Windows machine"
date: 2014-02-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GuardedLegacy on 2014-02-26
I've been tinkering around with Ubuntu server on and off for over a year. My goal was to set up a media server but I've since realized I was getting myself in a bit over my head. After getting shares set up, I kept hitting dead ends when trying to figure out virtualization and setting up the media server, and now my wonderful server project is basically just a NAS. I'm content with that for now, until I can figure out the rest.

Anyway, I spend more time studying Chinese, than I do figuring out Ubuntu, and here's where my problem comes in.

Chinese characters won't display in file names as viewed on my Windows machine. They all show up as squares on my Windows machine. If I copy and paste those squares into the forum here, I get characters, so the characters save properly, but they aren't displaying properly. If I navigate to the files via PuTTY I see this gibberish: ä¸*åå°å½¢.doc


I've been trying to search for language support in the forums and documentation, but haven't been able to find something that either a. fit my situation using Ubuntu server and not desktop, or b. made enough sense to me that I could tell it was related and would fix my problem.

As I said, I'm new to Ubuntu, and although I really do love it, I'll admit that I'm in over my head. I can feel my way around computers, but I have no formal training or education. Pretty much everything I know, beyond general day-to-day use of a computer, has been learned in the past couple years as I've been working on this project. I'm probably not even at the level of noob; more like noob in training.

I'm use PuTTY to remotely administer a headless server running Ubuntu Server 12.04 LTS (w/ all patches & updates) and using samba to share with my Windows 7 machine. Please let me know if you need any additional information to help me out.

Thank you in advanced!!


[U][B]**UPDATE** 2014-02-27
[/B][/U]I was just trying to post this issue on Overclock.net ([post]("http://www.overclock.net/t/1470477/how-can-i-display-chinese-language-file-names-from-ubuntu-server-12-04-on-windows-machine")) when it occurred to me that I could test this issue my phone.

I can see the Chinese characters on my Android phone.
So I tested a local file on my PC desktop and sure enough, Chinese shows up as boxes. In the past I had no issues viewing Characters on my PC, so I was thinking it was an issue of either language support on the server or communication between the two machines.
Now I'm quite certain this is an **issue with my settings in Windows on my PC**, not the server.

I know that's not the specialty here, but anyone know how to fix that? (at least now I know better what I'm searching for)

Again, Thank you.

---

### Post by GuardedLegacy on 2014-02-28
Well, after figuring out it was an issue with Windows, I found an odd, but simple fix.


Keep a file on the desktop with Chinese characters. So I renamed the Recycle Bin and restarted the machine. Seems to be working so far.


I don't know why that works (or if it's permanent), but there it is.

---

