---
title: "20.04.3 Desktop Boots Only into Recovery Mode, then Immediately Boots Normally"
date: 2021-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by davidahillman on 2021-12-16
I have a Dell Precision 3640 desktop running Kubuntu 20.04.3 LTS, and it will not boot into anything except Recovery Mode.  I've run Boot Repair and applied every other fix I can find, all to no avail.  The interesting part, to me anyway, is that if I boot it into Recovery Mode, and immediately select "Resume normal boot", it boots perfectly fine, with no apparent issues.

So my question is, what exactly does booting into Recovery Mode do, and how can I replicate that behavior automatically, so that a user doesn't have to catch it, and enter Recovery Mode?

For the record, attempts to boot sans RM result in a permanent hang on the black screen with Dell logo.  Does not seem to matter what is done, the same result occurs.  Grub has been re-installed and re-configured, kernels have been installed, and removed, etc.

Thanks.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-12-16
Recovery mode>Resume normal boot loads to a desktop using a low resolution open source video driver. On my machine I notice the low resolution mode. When in recovery mode we can de-activate the proprietary video driver from Software & Updates>Additional Driver tab. A reboot should load to a desktop using the standard high resolution open source video driver. If this is not happening in your case it may be that the standard open source video driver has been removed.

It is my understanding that the operating system video driver will load partway through the Linux kernel loading process.

How are you able to access the Grub boot menu when the boot process is freezing at the manufacturer's splash screen? Is Kubuntu the only operating system on this machine? What video adapter does the machine have?

Usually if the motherboard's boot process cannot find an operating system or an OS boot loader we would get a message saying no OS found. Usually if the motherboard's boot process detects the Grub boot loader but Grub cannot find a Linux kernel we end up at a Grub command line interface.

Regards

---

### Post by davidahillman on 2021-12-16
From the splash screen, nothing is accessible.  Kubuntu is the only OS installed.  There is an Nvidia Quadro P400 (GP107GL) installed.  Even after booting through Recovery Mode, the display resolution is 4K and not apparently using a low-resolution driver.

Thanks.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2021-12-17
Another Dell user here. Mine is 3268.
I confess that I have no idea what leads to your symptoms.
But I have installed rEFInd which works alongside grub.
After installing it is seen in /boot/efi/EFI/refind/

[https://www.rodsbooks.com/refind/installing.html](https://www.rodsbooks.com/refind/installing.html)

Then choose the rEFInd option you see in menu.

At least it gives an alternative approach to try.

---

