---
title: "Help Please Resolution Problem !!"
date: 2011-09-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Benjotter on 2011-09-24
Hello,

This is my first post on here folks I'm a serious Newb to the world of Ubuntu I have previously Owned mainly windows machines.

After a little research I decided to give Ubuntu a try and I have to say Kudos to the developers this system is amazing :p
I was getting seriously hacked off with all the BS involved with my win7 Pc so here I am. 

Basically my install went smooth my sound and wifi worked out of the box and after a little messing I managed to download an Nvidia Gfx driver for my card using the additional drivers app native to Ubuntu, But i still have a few problems I'm struggling to fix the main one being my monitor is a Hanns G hz194 native resolution is 1366x768 but unfortunately for some reason the max resolution available to me is 1024x768 and it just looks a little misty allthough it is still fully functional.
Hopefully someone can direct me down the right path and hopefully help me solve this issue.

---

### Post by JC Cheloven on 2011-09-24
Hi, and welcome :)

Please, open a terminal, type in ```
xrandr -q
``` press enter, selecct the output using the mouse, copy it (use the menu, edit-copy), and paste it here. Thank you.

---

### Post by Benjotter on 2011-09-24
Hi and thanks.
My native res for the monitor is 1366x768 60hz

xrandr: Failed to get size of gamma for output default
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 1024 x 768, maximum 1024 x 768
default connected 1024x768+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1024x768       50.0* 
   800x600        51.0     52.0     53.0  
   680x384        54.0     55.0  
   640x480        56.0  
   512x384        57.0  
   400x300        58.0  
   320x240        59.0 

:D

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2011-09-24
What version of the NVidia Graphics driver do you have?

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-09-24
obsolete since post #6

---

### Post by Benjotter on 2011-09-24
Hi just found that in nvidia setting resolution of 1360x768 is available much crisper but still not right and screen is off centre. Resolution is 1366x768 in windows 7?...

Driver is 270.41.06



Thanks 

Ben

---

### Post by Benjotter on 2011-09-24
Lol I have no idea how to edit that sorry I'm very new to terminal :D

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.41.06  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-07.nvidia.com)  Mon Apr 18 15:15:12 PDT 2011

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 270.29  (buildd@roseapple)  Fri Feb 25 14:43:24 UTC 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GT 220"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by JC Cheloven on 2011-09-24
Ben: simply don't miss Realzippy's advice. He's probably most awesome guy ever, regarding problems with monitors. If I were you, I'd feel relieved with him around.
EDIT: oops too late, you already answered.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-09-24
let the kernel doing its job without distturbing it with proprio config, open a terminal and run:

sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf

then reboot

---

### Post by Benjotter on 2011-09-24
@ Jc Cheloven ... Did I miss something Realzippy gave me no advice ? all i read was obsolete since post 6# and iI didnt really understand it.

@ Dino 99 ... Followed your steps no luck at all.

Sorry if i sound a bit dumb folks I really am very new to the world of linux.

Thanks Ben

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-09-24
so i suppose you have already removed xorg.conf as i tell you previously

now from a terminal:

sudo synaptic

select "status" tab on the left panel & "installed packages", then on top use the quicksearch field: nvidia

remove/purge ALL the installed nvidia packages (right click)

do the same thing with jockey 

then reinstall: nvidia-current, jockey-gtk, dkms

close synaptic & reboot

and check driver activation: additional drivers (from menu)

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-09-24
> **Benjotter said:**
> Hi just found that in nvidia setting resolution of 1360x768 is available much crisper but still not right and screen is off centre. Resolution is 1366x768 in windows 7?...
Driver is 270.41.06
Thanks 
Ben
...so you do not get 1366x768 offered in nvidia-settings,only 1360x768?

Your xorg.conf looks okay; monitor data seems not to be read from EDID.The builtin Vrefresh/Hsync range values used should allow a 1366x768 resolution,
although according to a [HannsGhz194]("http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBgQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fsoftwarelibrary.geol.ucsb.edu%2FUserGuides%2FMonitors%2FHannsG-HZ201-UserGuide.pdf&rct=j&q=Hanns%20G%20hz194%20manual&ei=Lex9TpHYA8nOswaV9o0n&usg=AFQjCNFikjg5buGoyyvDl0jebO-V15sL8A&cad=rja") manual they are different.
Not much hope,but you could try those.
run
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
delete all,paste in:

```
Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
Option "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

# HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "CRT-1"
HorizSync 24.0 - 61.0
VertRefresh 56.0 - 75.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "GeForce GT 220"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "TwinView" "0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Close file saving changes.Reboot or restart X.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-09-24
Benjotter,
sorry you may be confused due to the cross postings here now.
Can you wait a few minutes?
Also suggest not to run dino's commands (in the moment).
Need a few minutes,will explain..and edit this post then.

Edit:

@dino

Why should OP reinstall the nvidia-driver,dkms and jockey?
His nvidia-driver is working,only the native resolution 
does not run.
Could you agree to wait with this reinstalling procedure until OP answered the question in post #12 "1360 available,but not 1366"
and we have tried to use the vendor's values (admit I have not much hope)?
Why not using code tags after 5 years?
Why not gksudo ?

@Benjotter

What is the status quo now?
..so you do not get 1366x768 offered in nvidia-settings,only 1360x768?
Which commands have you run?

---

### Post by Benjotter on 2011-09-24
That made 1360x768 run but no other option for 1366x768 but it will do for the mean time at least screen looks crisp now not blurred Builing a better rig soon.

Thanks for your help guys

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-09-24
> **Benjotter said:**
> That made 1360x768 run but no other option for 1366x768 

So please try what I suggested in post #12...

---

### Post by Benjotter on 2011-10-05
Built my new system and bought Asus pg221 monitor everything is working perfect now.

This forum is awesome 

Cheers Guys :P

---

