---
title: "10.04 LTS seems very unstable"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bcg30506 on 2010-05-02
I tried installing 10.04LTS on my desktop which was previously running 8.04.  I did a fresh install, not an upgrade.  Here are the issues I had after the install:

1. Sometimes fails to boot and just hangs at the ubuntu logo

2. When it does boot successfully, things appear to work but then the UI will just hang randomly, causing me to have no control with mouse or keyboard.  The only way out is a hard reset.

3. I never see the bootup menu.  Grub2 seems to be flaky.  I've tried both ESC and Shift while it boots to get to the menu, but neither seem to work.

So I reinstalled mythbuntu 9.04 over it and all works fine again.

---

### Post by Greblok on 2010-05-03
I'm having the same issue as #2.
Ubuntu hangs, apparently without any reason (of course not).
Mouse and keyboard are non-responsive.

The only thing I know for sure is that this is not because of poor hardware,
and this did not happen in Windows 7 previous to the Ubuntu install (and still doesn't, running dualboot).

The thing is, this started to happen before I started installing other things, so it has to be an Ubuntu issue.

---

### Post by rbellah on 2010-05-03
This too is happening to me, it is very hit or miss on getting to GUI login.  It seems as if it is reverting back to the old style login of Linux of yesterday.  It may take as many as 4 restarts to get logged in.

---

### Post by Manyette on 2010-05-03
Just a quick suggestion.  Read the release notes, as there are a few gotcha's in there for some specific configurations.  It is quite stable on my machine.

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-05-03
If 10.04 becomes any more stable on my machine as what it already is my machine will petrify and turn into a rock.
(Sony Viao nearly 5 years old)

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2010-05-03
Here's the link to the Release Notes ...[URL="http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004"] Release Notes Lucid Lynx 10.04
[/URL]

---

### Post by lkrory21 on 2010-05-03
I have the exact problem with Ubuntu 10.04 (clean install).

I can log on to the PC with no problem but at some time (it could be in 10min it could be after a couple of hours) it hangs and locks up with no apparent reason and with no message. It just stucks there and only after hard reboot I can log on again.

I also checked all the logs under System > Administration > Log File Viewer but there isn't anything anywhere that suggests that something is wrong.

I should also add that the computer was running until yesterday on Ubuntu 9.10 (and previous versions before that) and I never encountered this kind of problem.

What else can I check apart from the logs?

Thanks a lot in advance!

---

### Post by lkrory21 on 2010-05-04
A little more about the 10.04 random crashes / hangs (see my post above) after investigating a bit more...

While system logs still don't show anything around the time of each crash/freeze I see a lot of these errors in .xsession-errors:

*(firefox-bin:1729): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead*

or if I use Chrome:

*(exe:1450): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble a*head

Also I always see the following message when a new .xsession-errors file is created after a hard reboot:

[I](polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1317): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: cannot register existing type `_PolkitError'

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1317): GLib-CRITICAL **: g_once_init_leave: assertion `initialization_value != 0' failed[/I]

Any help will be really appreciated! I'm also available for any additional info you might need! I really like 10.04 and I don't wanna revert back to 9.10 but these random crashes are really very annoying!

Thanks a lot in advance.

---

### Post by nixclusive on 2010-05-04
> **bcg30506 said:**
> 
3. I never see the bootup menu.  Grub2 seems to be flaky.  I've tried both ESC and Shift while it boots to get to the menu, but neither seem to work.


You can depress the SHIFT key while powering on to get to the grub2 menu.

---

### Post by maxcomx on 2010-05-04
I just got a new Ubuntu 10.04 LTS 64 lice CD, work until the first menu asking for instalation or to run from live cd, or.....   anything i choose get me nowhere, it just freeze and get nowhere.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-04
you might know that every new toy is shining but not bug free sadly, and it never can be, its better to wait a couple weeks after released to have a stable distro. This is always true, no matter distro or release. With more experience you will know that. :P

---

### Post by lkrory21 on 2010-05-04
@dino99 Well that's generally true but since ubuntu 5.5 I have upgraded or installed from the start on the first day of a every subsequent release and I never encountered any really serious problem such as the random hang / lockup of the system with no apparent reason and with nothing recorded on the system logs (see my posts above) like I have these few days with Ubuntu 10.04. 

Therefore I believe that there must be a solution. At the very least there must be someone that can point me towards something that I can check / investigate more or help me with the issue.

Cheers!

---

### Post by newman on 2010-05-07
I also have a random freezing problem in 10.04 after a clean install. I had the same problem with 9.10, but I assumed 10.04LTS would be stable. The same system has been rock solid with 8.04LTS and even 8.10. I guess I have no choice but to go back to version 8.10 - but I really like the fast boot times of 10.04!  I suspect my freezing issues might have something to do with the Nvidia drivers (I have an Nvidia 8600GT card).  In fact I have been unable to successfully install any 64x version of ubuntu because of issues with the Nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by lkrory21 on 2010-05-10
Hi all!

It seems that  my Ubuntu 10.04 (clean install) continues to randomly freeze / hang (mouse/keyboard unresponsive, only a hard reboot is available as option) but with no garbled screens/windows/etc. There's no pattern why or any application that could be responsible. It could happen ten minutes after it is started or after 2 days but at some point and suddenly the system will become totally unresponsive. I used the same PC with Karmic Koala and releases before that (sometimes on for days) with no such problem so it shouldn't be a hardware problem.

As I also mentioned in my posts above I thoroughly check system logs after the hard reboot and there's no entry around the time of each freeze / hang to pinpoint me to something.

The only thing that is certain is that the following errors / warnings always appear in .xsession-errors file:

1.
[I]Window manager warning: Failed to read saved session file /home/lkrory21/.config/metacity/sessions/1080c45259ed06f712734738133612800000012480026.ms: Failed to open file '/home/lkrory21/.config/metacity/sessions/1080c45259ed06f712734738133612800000012480026.ms': No such file or directory
[/I]
2.
([I]polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1321): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: cannot register existing type `_PolkitError'

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1321): GLib-CRITICAL **: g_once_init_leave: assertion `initialization_value != 0' failed
[/I]
3.
[I]** (update-notifier:1457): DEBUG: Skipping reboot required
[/I]
4. (If I use Chrome)
[I](exe:1524): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead
[/I]
5. (If I use Firefox, in this case the file is literally flooded with this warning)
([I]firefox-bin:1579): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead
[/I]
Any suggestions what else I might check? Thanx a lot in advance!

---

### Post by tipiglen on 2010-05-10
I don't know if this is related, but after an interrupted upgrade from karmic, I can use the touchpad fine, but any keyboard input causes a freeze-up, and an infinitely repeating key, 

That is, if I try to go to system/admin/synaptic, when the password screen appears, and I start to enter, I get a stream of dots and a frozen computer.

Same for going to system/preferences/keyboard/general to change repeat and delays, typing anything in the test area gives an infinite stream....and a frozen box

I can get a root terminal from a recovery console, but have no idea what to do from there - reinstall gdm? how?

In frustration
ed

---

### Post by SuppoTaalasmaa on 2010-05-10
I'm also having random freezes, with similar symptoms as others have mentioned here.
Sound starts looping, and mouse and keyboard become unresponsive. Then after a few seconds caps and numlock start blinking, I suppose indicating that kernel has detected the freeze, and machine will reboot automatically in few more seconds ..


I also have those polkit-gnome errors in my xsession-errors file...

Advice is really appreciated, this is very frustrating, as you can't really do any real work in fear of losing data...

---

### Post by FinnMan on 2010-05-10
I've been excited about **Lucid Lynx**, but now I read about all the problems people are having and it starts to look like it won't work at all. :P

Should I just buy Windows 7?

---

### Post by tipiglen on 2010-05-10
> Should I just buy Windows 7?
NO!

Lucid works real well as a fresh install.  My troubles stem from a semi-aborted upgrade on an already dodgy decrepit machine.

I have working lucid installations in both the desktop and netbook varieties working on this wee asus and also in Virtual Machines, and Lucid works a treat.

Only buy Windoze if you've got no imagination

Peace
ed

---

### Post by Gyropyge on 2010-05-10
> **bcg30506 said:**
> 

[snip]
So I reinstalled mythbuntu 9.04 over it and all works fine again.

This is my first comment since joining the forums.

I am currently using 9.10 and have very little time on 10.04 running from a live CD where it seemed to work great.  I'm not fond of installing one OS over another, but prefer to back up data and start each installation clean.  This has always worked well with windows and I simply continued doing this with linux.

My last upgrade was straight from version 8 something to 9.10 which I've found to be less stable than the 8 I had before.  I've read 9.04 is considered one of the most stable distros, and I it is what I have installed on my netbook which works flawlessly.

Before abandoning 10.04, is there a way you could try installing it clean on an alternate hard drive?

---

### Post by tipiglen on 2010-05-10
> Before abandoning 10.04, is there a way you could try installing it clean on an alternate hard drive?
I have it installed on a 16gig sd card, and it boots well on my asus 1005ha.

I formatted the card into 3 ext3 partitions and a swap using a live cd prior to installing.

Works a treat, and I've found it the fastest way to copy a backup copy of my home directory onto an external usb hdd.  Boot from sd card and then do the copy via the file browser.  ran at around 20Mb/sec, which on this machine is about as fast as it gets.

My other problem (freezing and repeating keys) seems to be solved on the decrepit laptop by running in low-graphics mode, so the problem is somewhere in that area.

Peace
ed

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-10
> **lkrory21 said:**
> .xsession-errors:

*(firefox-bin:1729): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead*

It seems that changing your screensaver from "None" will eliminate this error - I set mine to "Pictures folder", but possibly others are stable.

---

### Post by Horkheimer on 2010-05-10
I agree!

I upgraded from 9.04 (which was one of the most stable systems i've ever used!) to 9.10 then directly to 10.04. Now, wierd crashes occur, sometimes it hangs in a state where the ONLY thing you can do is move your mouse pointer. When i browse the web with Firefox, the browser just shuts down suddenly if it were not for the possibility in Firefox to go back to the previous session after a crash it would be no point in using the browser. 

It does "feel" unstable...i also had some inconsistencies when trying to get my wireless modem to work after the upgrade. I got it to work but i'm not exactly sure how. The modem could'nt be found at first and i spent lots of time on trying to configure things when i finally put it in a different USB port  it was recognized but that did'nt make any sense. As i said it was inconsistensies. 

I am new to linux but i can tell that this version is not stable, at least not in this harware. 9.04 was great it's so shitty when you upgrade and loose stability.


BTW, last night i was downloading some stuff and i wanted to go to bed so i used the 'shutdown'- command which is great and workded 100% in version 9.04 and i used it VERY often when going to bed or going out.
I use the command:
(sudo) shutdown -h +[time to shutdown, in minutes] -P

Then it says "The system is going down for power off in X minutes!"

Yeah right! This morning, now on v10.04 the CPU was still running. Transmission was running but had lost all connections. It was the first time the shutdown command did'nt function!

---

### Post by newman on 2010-05-10
I'm still getting random freezes even after all the updates - sometimes after a couple hours, and sometimes after a couple of minutes. Looks like I'm going to install 8.10 - the last stable version I had.:confused:

---

### Post by myjess on 2010-05-10
> **newman said:**
> I'm still getting random freezes even after all the updates - sometimes after a couple hours, and sometimes after a couple of minutes. Looks like I'm going to install 8.10 - the last stable version I had.:confused:

You all wouldn't happen to have 8xx intel vga chipsets perhaps. See bugs!

---

### Post by newman on 2010-05-10
> **myjess said:**
> You all wouldn't happen to have 8xx intel vga chipsets perhaps. See bugs!

Nvidia 8600

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2010-05-10
Your symptoms= Failing hardware! 

I would check your HDD.

---

### Post by bbabiuk on 2010-05-11
> **newman said:**
> I'm still getting random freezes even after all the updates - sometimes after a couple hours, and sometimes after a couple of minutes. Looks like I'm going to install 8.10 - the last stable version I had.:confused:


I have had the exact same issues as mentioned in previous posts.  My system randomly freezes.  I had a rock solid 9.10 system, and i did a fresh install with 10.04, and since then I have been extremely frustrated with the system instability.

---

### Post by isbiyanto on 2010-05-11
> **Manyette said:**
> Just a quick suggestion.  Read the release notes, as there are a few gotcha's in there for some specific configurations.  It is quite stable on my machine.

really stable on my machine too.

---

### Post by newman on 2010-05-11
I gave up on 10.04 - I'm back to 8.10 32x. 8.10 64x doesn't seem to work. Even with the updates, no sound, and when I intall the nvidia drivers I get blank screen. So, I'll have to stick to 8.10 32 bit, since everything works, even though I can't use all of my 4gigs of ram...  :(

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-11
> **RJARRRPCGP said:**
> Your symptoms= Failing hardware! 
I would check your HDD.

Checked and passed.

Ubuntu 10.04 installed on identical duplicate laptops produces the same symptoms (freeze, fsck on reboot) while re-installing 8.10 runs correctly without any freeze.

This is definitely an Ubuntu 10.04 (and Ubuntu 9.10, never tested 9.04) problem.

---

### Post by MonsterreactioN on 2010-05-11
Update was a fail, but with the clean installation ubuntu 10.04 runs great. (And I like the new design).
But I have a big big problem (and need some help). I can't reach anything outside my network with firefox, with chrome i can't even reach my gateway. And Empathy[COLOR=#999999] [/COLOR][COLOR=black]c[/COLOR][COLOR=black]an't reach facebook, but MSN (MSN also works with other client-software). Now it's going funny!![/COLOR]
I can't even ping a site outside of my network, buuuuuuut i can connect everything with the epiphany webbrowser and i can use aptitude without any problems.
 
I get my IP over DHCP, and my firewall shouldn't be a problem.
Any Idea?

---

### Post by lkrory21 on 2010-05-11
Well if you eliminate hardware failure and having a i8xx Intel chip (see my posts above + [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787)) what else could cause the random freezes / lockups of an Ubuntu 10.04 (clean install)? 

Because on the same PC just a week or so ago Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic) was running just fine and there weren't any problem of this kind!

Thanks a lot in advance for any valuable info!

Cheers!

---

### Post by MonsterreactioN on 2010-05-11
> **MonsterreactioN said:**
> Update was a fail, but with the clean installation ubuntu 10.04 runs great. (And I like the new design).
But I have a big big problem (and need some help). I can't reach anything outside my network with firefox, with chrome i can't even reach my gateway. And Empathy[COLOR=black]c[/COLOR][COLOR=black]an't reach facebook, but MSN (MSN also works with other client-software). Now it's going funny!![/COLOR]
I can't even ping a site outside of my network, buuuuuuut i can connect everything with the epiphany webbrowser and i can use aptitude without any problems.
 
I get my IP over DHCP, and my firewall shouldn't be a problem.
Any Idea?
 
 
it seems to be a problem with the dns, firefox can connect to websites over the IP, ping can't ...

---

### Post by bbabiuk on 2010-05-11
> **isbiyanto said:**
> really stable on my machine too.

I read the release notes, but nothing really pertains to my setup.  I am not using an Intel video setup, its an Nvidia 260, and i'm using the 64 bit install of 10.04.  Its really too bad.  I will likely revert back to the 9.10 that was running flawlessly.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-11
> **bbabiuk said:**
> I read the release notes, but nothing really pertains to my setup.  I am not using an Intel video setup, its an Nvidia 260, and i'm using the 64 bit install of 10.04.  Its really too bad.  I will likely revert back to the 9.10 that was running flawlessly.

If you are going to do a clean install anyway, perhaps you could try reverting to grub first, to see if that improves stability? It is a very easy experiment, following the steps at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reverting%20to%20GRUB%20Legacy](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reverting%20to%20GRUB%20Legacy)

EDIT: I have been running grub instead of grub2 and (with the other fixes) my machine runs for much longer until it freezes, but it still does freeze and then it requires a SysReq REISUB reboot. So reverting to grub does not fix it.

---

### Post by Sparckus on 2010-05-11
I'm getting the same sort of issue as #2 of the OP's post only mine doesn't come up with the ubuntu splash screen.  Machine just hangs about half the time it's booting.  Machine worked fine with both 9.04 then an upgrade to 9.10 went fine, done a fresh install for 10.04.

---

### Post by motero57 on 2010-05-11
I did an upgrade from my 9.10 to 10.04. I was having problems while changing users.
I did a fresh install for 10.04. Same issue. I suffered some other hangings also, that right now I do not remeber.
For me stability is a must. For that reason, I gave a change do debian squeeze. It feels much more solid, at least this is my perception. I am very happy with the change. I also do not mind not having the last versions of the software, and I apreciate not having a new version out every 6 months.
Ubuntu was my introduction to Linux 5 months ago. Thanks to Ubuntu, I forgot about windows and got introduced into Linux. Who knows if I will came back to Ubuntu in a future. Right know, I will stick with Debian.

Best regards.

---

### Post by mistermentality on 2010-05-12
> **tipiglen said:**
> NO!

Lucid works real well as a fresh install.  My troubles stem from a semi-aborted upgrade on an already dodgy decrepit machine.

I hate to disagree but mine was a fresh install and fresh install has had youtube and iplayer crashing every browser fullscreen, Audacity randomly crashes when editing files, the whole system freezes at least once or twice in every few hours use (most recently half an hour ago while watching an mkv on vlc) and despite having Linux drivers my printer won`t work so to be honest Windows 7 is much more stable than Ubuntu 10.

Thats disappointing as I don`t like Windows but at least it lets me use Flash and watch videos with no issues.

I`m sticking with Ubuntu, trying to solve the issues, but if I could find a Linux that worked out of the box and didn`t crash a lot I`d stick with it. As is I may myself have to go back to Windows as I can`t put up with flash videos crashing all the time, no printer support for the ip4300 and no boot up display or boot up options but I`m giving it a fair shot.

Only tried Sabayon and Ubuntu, as am a newb, Sabayon was more stable and didn`t crash but I wanted the extra software and features Ubuntu offers.

So I would have to agree with the post title that this release is unstable, and I know my hardware is good so it`s not a hardware issue, and I have more than enough memory etc to run Ubuntu (2GB Ram, 520 GB SATA HD, Nvidia 7600GS graphics card, Pentium D 3.4 Ghz cpu).

---

### Post by KPDXHAM on 2010-05-22
I just installed this new version of Ubuntu after having used the other versions for about a year now and enjoyed using them 99% of the time over XP. In fact, on both my systems I've done a fresh install of 10.04 LTS and have my XP HDD's disconnected because I don't like the wait time on booting with grub.
BUT,this version has been released too soon from the looks of things. I've had both desktops crash more than once, then have to login again and see that I lost what I was doing before the crash. :(

---

### Post by wknight8111 on 2010-05-24
> **lkrory21 said:**
> I have the exact problem with Ubuntu 10.04 (clean install).

I can log on to the PC with no problem but at some time (it could be in 10min it could be after a couple of hours) it hangs and locks up with no apparent reason and with no message. It just stucks there and only after hard reboot I can log on again.

I also checked all the logs under System > Administration > Log File Viewer but there isn't anything anywhere that suggests that something is wrong.

I should also add that the computer was running until yesterday on Ubuntu 9.10 (and previous versions before that) and I never encountered this kind of problem.

What else can I check apart from the logs?

Thanks a lot in advance!

This is similar to my experience, but a little different. I had random freeze/hangs on Ubuntu 9.10, so I rolled back to 9.04 for a while. I did a clean install of 10.04, and now I'm seeing a slightly different problem. Instead of freezing randomly, the computer occasionally locks up after a period of inactivity. The screen will go dark as part of the screensaver, but the computer will not respond to mouse/keyboard input to come out of the screensaver.

I do not know if this is a problem with the input, where everything is working fine but the mouse/keyboard stop sending signals. It could be a problem with the graphics, where everything is working fine but the desktop never redraws. Maybe it's something else, I don't know.

I upgraded on Saturday morning. Now it's monday morning. It's frozen for me three times like this. Twice when I came back the computer was extremely HOT, and the fan was blasting at full speed. The third time when I came back the computer was cool as normal.

I've seen another thread somewhere that suggested the PS2 mouse/keyboard driver might be an issue. I've also seen threads that suggest the graphics driver (My problems with 9.10 were definitely graphics-card related, I've been told). I would very much like to know what the problem is so I can start fixing it. I need this computer to be functional, and I will roll back to 9.04 again if I have to.

---

### Post by wknight8111 on 2010-05-24
> **StuartN said:**
> Checked and passed.

Ubuntu 10.04 installed on identical duplicate laptops produces the same symptoms (freeze, fsck on reboot) while re-installing 8.10 runs correctly without any freeze.

This is definitely an Ubuntu 10.04 (and Ubuntu 9.10, never tested 9.04) problem.

My experience exactly. I've had major freeze/crash/hang problems on 9.10 and now 10.04 since I upgraded. 9.04 has been sock solid for me and I've been using that for months after rolling back from 9.10.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-24
> **wknight8111 said:**
> My experience exactly. I've had major freeze/crash/hang problems on 9.10 and now 10.04 since I upgraded. 9.04 has been sock solid for me and I've been using that for months after rolling back from 9.10.

I am now using kernel 2.6.34 in Ubuntu 10.04 and using kernel 2.6.33 in Ubuntu 2.6.33, and both seem absolutely solid. I have put notes on the 9.10 and 10.04 freeze at [http://www.iol.ie/~stuartneilson/Bootup_fsck.html](http://www.iol.ie/~stuartneilson/Bootup_fsck.html)

The instructions for installing a mainline kernel are at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/MainlineBuilds](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/MainlineBuilds) and the kernel for 10.04 is at [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.34-lucid/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.34-lucid/) and the kernel for 9.10 is at [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33/)

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2010-07-30
> XID collision, trouble ahead

I noticed that I get the same message with Puppy 5!

Is it because of the Ubuntu X.Org? Looks like it may be. Sorry for being a tad OT.

Looks like possibly a regression.

---

### Post by KPDXHAM on 2010-07-30
> **KPDXHAM said:**
> I just installed this new version of Ubuntu after having used the other versions for about a year now and enjoyed using them 99% of the time over XP. In fact, on both my systems I've done a fresh install of 10.04 LTS and have my XP HDD's disconnected because I don't like the wait time on booting with grub.
BUT,this version has been released too soon from the looks of things. I've had both desktops crash more than once, then have to login again and see that I lost what I was doing before the crash. :(

UPDATE: I've not been to the forums for about 2 months now because I've had no major problems with this program! :D
In fact, I've been able to add Cairo-dock to make my desktop look more like a Mac after having used my sister's new Mac a couple months ago. And other tweaks also with no bad happenings.
What I really mean to say is.... I haven't had to "start over again" by reinstalling Ubuntu nor have I had to try to repair anything! And I have it installed on 2 desktop computers with my wife and I as users. :D

GOOD JOB! :D To all of you programmers out there and contributors who have made this version stable!!!!!

PS. I have M$ XP on a HDD in a drawer....just in case..... ;)

---

### Post by RaZoR1394 on 2010-08-01
My experience with 10.04:

Firefox refuses to start several times and locks up in the background. This does not happen on my amd64 install however.

NFS transfer locks up the whole desktop all the time.

Youtube and music stutters a lot.

---

### Post by Valtonia on 2010-10-04
I use Ubuntu at work and at home.  My experience at home with 10.04LTS is excellent - no problems at all.  Although this machine is never switched on for more than 8 hours at a time.  I think this might be significant.

My work machine is currently running 9.10 (with some issues) as I had to abandon 10.04LTS due to random freezes and weird behaviour where apps would randomly segfault.  This has happened on two different machines with different gfx cards (one was ATI, current one is NVidia 250) so it is not a hardware issue.

I've tried all kinds of workarounds like using the Nouveau driver, disabling all forms of speedstep related stuff in the bios, etc.  Nothing seems to make it stable.

The things which seem significant is that my home machine uses a standard Intel GMAxxx gfx card and is not generally switched on for long periods, and the fact that my current (mostly stable) 9.10 install at work is using the 2.6.31 series of kernels.

This is an example of the kind of message I see when something randomly segfaults:
kernel: [11483.900568] python[8040]: segfault at 271735 ip 08093fff sp bfb14d40 error 4 in python2.6[8048000+1e0000]

This happens to all apps that are running, and I assume that if it's the gfx driver which segfaults that's when I get hard freeze.

This is very frustrating for me as I've been trying to champion the use of Linux as daily development system over Windows, and this kind of behaviour just affirms most people's view that Linux is not ready daily desktop use.

---

