---
title: "Grub2 menu"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-02
9.10 Karmic Koala

Hi,

The PC in question is a dual boot with Xubuntu & Windows. 

Grub2 shows up just fine, showing both Xubuntu's, mem check & Windows.

However, for some reason, I'm only allowed to select Xubuntu, or recovery. I'm not able to arrow down to memtest, or Windows.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2009-11-02
Boot into Xubuntu and run ```
sudo update-grub
``` This may fix your problem. I'm not much of a fan of grub2 and still don't really understand it. That command will force grub to re-run its configuration, so it should overwrite all the configs and may fix the problem.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-02
Would it make sense to go in reverse, back to grub?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-11-02
> **DapperMe17 said:**
> Would it make sense to go in reverse, back to grub?

Reverting to legacy grub [is not a trivial task]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8071880&postcount=18").

If you can fix this issue, it would be better to stick with grub 2. It's all a bit unfamiliar at the moment, and rather rough round the edges, but it has to get better. Some would say it can't get worse. :(

A couple of links for your bookmarks if you're feeling up to it.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-02
Thanks for the links!

I updated grub, it went through it's process. However, I still have the same issue at grub. 

It won't allow me to arrow past Xubuntu, or Xubuntu recovery.

?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-11-03
Sorry - I'm a grub2 newbie. Most forum members still are. I've no idea why you can't scroll down past the first two entries.

The only thing I can suggest is to make entries for memtest and Windows in a custom /etc/grub.d/ file. I should imagine you'd need to make a 11_custom file rather than edit the 40_custom file, so that it is parsed after 10_linux and before 30_os-prober. That would mean that there would be 2 entries each for memtest and Windows, but hopefully yours will appear before the inaccessible ones. Don't forget you have to make your custom file executable.

Also - why not have a look in 30_os-prober? Perhaps something has gone wrong with the script in there.

After you've finished run 'sudo update-grub' and hope for the best.

Good luck.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-04
Thanks coffecat,

That's a bit over my head. 

If I had some examples, or a guiding hand, it's do-able.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-04
Check out the link in my sig, the links on it are the best around.  Check the first 3.  If you read my 1st post on that thread and look at those links and can't fix it, at least you will have some idea what to ask about.  Grub2 is new and most folks know little about it.  Knowing something will help you.

There is a link there to revert to grub-legacy.  I like grub2.

---

### Post by jkhh07 on 2009-11-04
Reply to DapperMe17

Look at /boot/grub/grub.cfg 
-are there entries like this (below) like the following for yours? (i know your XP is a little different than the vista, but it should generally be the same thing.


```
### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows Vista (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
        insmod ntfs
        set root=(hd0,1)
        search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2cc6d5bdc6d5878a
        chainloader +1
}
menuentry "Windows Vista (loader) (on /dev/sda2)" {
        insmod ntfs
        set root=(hd0,2)
        search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ae58a01c589fe0ff
        chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

```

post your /boot/grub/grub.cfg as an attachment.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-04
Thanks ranch hand!

I'll start there.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-04
The results of the grub file in question...

[HTML]#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,6)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 800311230-12f7-42af-9771-9cea6a30e0t2
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,6)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 84997590-16h7-12as-9886-6hea6a30e5g7
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=83022290-5g67-44mf-9855-9ceb3p30e7f9 ro splash  quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,6)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 802888880-12f7-49ef-97777-9ceb9mme7f9
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=800633333-12f7-41nf-5006-9cea6a30e5b3 ro single splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition (on /dev/sda1)" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 0000649a00001b58
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###[/HTML]

---

### Post by Piscium on 2009-11-04
> **DapperMe17 said:**
> 9.10 Karmic Koala

Hi,

The PC in question is a dual boot with Xubuntu & Windows. 

Grub2 shows up just fine, showing both Xubuntu's, mem check & Windows.

However, for some reason, I'm only allowed to select Xubuntu, or recovery. I'm not able to arrow down to memtest, or Windows.

Any ideas?

I have been using Grub 2 on Jaunty for about three months. It is not perfect, as it did not pick up all the kernel versions on one of my partitions, but other than that seemed fine.

Grub 2 on Karmic is another story. I have two partitions, in one Grub2 takes about 10 seconds to load (it's about 1 second on Jaunty), and in the other something like 30 or 40 seconds. For the latter I cannot even move the arrow on the Grub menu as Dapper said.

This issue with Grub2 on Karmic also is a possible explanation why boot times have increased for some people, because if they have only a single OS in their disk there will be no Grub2 menu, but the Grub2 will still be wasting time in the background.

My current fix is using a small Jaunty partition with Grub 2 to boot into my Karmic partitions or Windows XP. Jaunty has an earlier version of Grub 2 (1.96). This works well.

I have also got and built the latest release of Grub2 from the Grub website, 1.97 (Karmic has 1.97 beta4). I have not yet figured out how to install it though. This is what I will attempt to do sometime over the next few days.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-04
I like the idea of a custom file my self.  If you use the " generic" entry for your Xubuntu you will never have to update it and the windows entry in your grub.cfg looks good (I do not really know anything about MS menu entries - don't have - won't) and it should not need updating either.

There will be an update of grub2 here pretty quick, I think, got one for 10.04 testing today.  I have to run right now but not for long and I will send you some cut and paste for a custom entry for both OS'.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-04
Thank you.

I'm sure there will be an update at some point, so it's really not a rush. Please don't go out of your way for this "minor" issue. 

:popcorn:

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-04
This should do it.
```

#!/bin/sh
exec tail -n +3 $0
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.

echo "Adding Xubuntu on sda6" >&2 
cat << EOF
menuentry "Xubuntu on sda6" {
        set root=(hd0,6)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda6 so quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}
EOF

echo "Adding PhatDebian on sda7" >&2 
cat << EOF
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition (on /dev/sda1)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root=(hd0,1)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 0000649a00001b58
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}
EOF

```I forget the name of your text editor in Xubuntu but open it and paste this in there.  You need the sudo so that you can save this file to /etc/grub.d with the name 06_custom.  Change the permissions so that it is executable.  Run "sudo update-grub".

Those entries should be at the top of your menu.  Hopefully you will be able to move up and down now that we have changed things around and maybe got the buggers attention.  If not we will worry about that then.

EDIT
We just got rid of 6 kittens.  A ranch needed to rebuild its stock of barn cats.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-04
Is this going to replace my current, or co-exist with it?

I notice you have XP as sda7. The XP in question exists on sda1.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-04
Well, it is good someone is watching.  Just fix it when you get it to the editor.  I should have edited between the "  " on that line to match the stuff in your MS entry.  Please do that or it will say "Adding PhatDebian" in terminal when running update-grub.  That would be the only result of that.  The menu entry would be the same as yours is now.

It will not replace anything.  You do not have a 06_custom file.

Note in your current grub.cfg at the bottom the stuff about 40_custom.  If you cut and pste my stuff to, it that is where the entries would be after running update-grub.

Now if you go to the top of that same grub.cfg you will see where 00_header does its thing and 05_debian-theme does its thing.  These entries from 06_custom should show up right after 05_debian-theme and 10_linux on your new grub.cfg.  grub.d is where grub.cfg comes from.

If this works without a stuck cursor in your menu, and you are not adding anythng to your HDD for the time being.  You could disable every file after 06_custom and then it would be all that showed up on your menu.  I have been too chicken to keep mine that way but it works and speeds up all kinds of things, particularly update-grub.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-04
Rancher,

I added the file your provided & added permissions. After a re-start, the extra two entries were listed just fine. However, "no go" on the cursor action. This time, I couldn't move the cursor off of the first entry, Xubuntu.

I guess I'll go back to grub-legacy, until grub2 is a little more polished.

Barn cats = a mouse's best buddy :p

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-04
If you go back to grub-legacy make sure you use kansasnoobs guide in the links on my intro post.  There are some pitfalls you need to avoid.

Before you do that I would save that file to your desktop and remove grub-pc and grub-common and then install them and replace that file.  Won't take long and will probably work.  Be sure to run "update-grub" and "grub-install /dev/sda" when done.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-04
I don't think I going to mess with it anymore. I'll just keep the default set-up & hope that an update comes out. 

When I installed 9.10, It didn't give me a choice of where to install grub. Does it install by default to the Ubuntu partition now? Maybe, that is why only the Ubuntu partitions can be chosen from the Grub menu?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-04
No it installs, by default on the MBR.  It is just that it is able to deal with more variety in entries.

The real problem in grub2 is still os-prober.  It deals well with debian based OS' and with MS.  The way redhat based systems deal with things like video drivers gives you about (exagerating here) 982 entries for them, none of which work.  The generic entry support has got to the place, though where it works well for most of them.  Beos is a problem, and Moblin.  I think it can be done though.

The real strength or grub2 is a vast increase in flexibility.  It will be able to better deal with new bootable media and the FS' that come with them, not to mention just new FS'.

Right now the ride could, I will admit, be a lot easier.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-05
Nice information, indeed. Hey, it's new & takes time to break in. 

The fallback on this PC is Windows. With wireless only, & not configured out-of-the-box, there has to be a way to get to Winblows to get an internet connection, should there be a misconfiguration in Ubuntu. 

Therefor, a working grub has been a savior in the past, & will continue to be a valuable fallback.

With a little luck, we'll get there.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-05
What size is your HDD?  Why Win JerryLewis Pro as backup?

I have had as many as a dozen OS' on my box at one time.  MS was not one of them once I got Linux.  There may be problems with Linux but you don't need to buy some third party app to straighten it out either.

Installing and having this problem is a pain.  Have you ever had the pleasure of spending the weekend trying to get widows installed and running?

My wife bought this box when our 10 year old box died of power supply going and taking the mother board with it.

Came with Vista Home Premium.  We were excited.  Then we got it up and running.  Took me 3 days to realize that it had to go or I would have a stroke.  Took my wife 3 weeks.  My son suggested Ubuntu.

Then the trouble started. it was too much fun.  I broke the OS (and had no idea how to fix it) 5 times in a week.  The wife was a little pissed.  Her idea, don't laugh, is that you should be able to USE your computer.

I dual booted this bugger.  Hardy and Hardy.  One for work, one for play.  Nothing was doneto the work OS until it had been done to the play OS, including updates.  I have not had that work install of Hardy down since.

If all my Ubuntus go down I can use Debian, if it goes down I can always use Mandriva.  There is no way that MS will ever again pollute this box.

I am not tryingto get you to dump it.  It is your box.  I just wonder if there is room for another OS (10Gb) in waste space on the MS partition.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-05
Come on, you don't believe "all" of those Apple commercials now, do you?! 

Bill & Melinda really need the donations, so I purchase a license every year because I feel like it's a great cause :lolflag:

Windows co-exists because I like pain!!! It sits dormant, wrapped up in moth balls.

One day, it will surrender to Taps. ):P

Beavis & Butthead will start a FFFFFFIIIIIIIIRRRREEEEE FFFFFFFFFIIIIIIIRRREEEE FFFFFIIIIIIRRRRRRRRRREEEEEE with it!

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-05
The commercials are humorous.  Bill owns a majority share in Apple (non-voting, I believe).  I have never used any Apple product.

I have used MS and that was what I believe.  Crappy OS'.

You have a point, though about the need for money on the pet of the Gates family.  You are truelly a great guy to think of the needy like that.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-05
I don't need the $$$, it grows on my fica trees!

Majority share, I wasn't aware of that "conflict of interest" :popcorn:

I read somewhere that Apple was a descendant of Linux. After all, it was Mr. Gates' idea to "borrow" IBM's code while he was working there as a youngster?

I wish I was in his shoes today! 

He's probably counting his do-re-me's in GnuCash, running Ubuntu:D

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-05
Win JerryLewis Pro....that's a good one! LLLLLLaaaaaaaaaady

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-05
Mac OS' are based on unix just like linux is.  That is one reason that it is harder to write really effective malware for both of them.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-05
Ok, that makes sense.

It certainly doesn't hurt that Linux & Apple desktops are a grand total of < 1% of the total global desktop environment. 

That's quite literally transparant.

Good stuff!

Thanks again for your time & effort with the grub2 issue. I did a remove & reinstall of grub-common & grub-pc, then "sudo update-grub."

I'll see if that makes a difference at next boot.

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2009-11-26
Hi,

I'm still waiting for a Grub update. 

Ranch hand, I'm using your script & can at least navigate to the first two options in the Grub menu (Xubuntu & XP). 

However, that's as far down the list as I can navigate. I still can't arrow down to the new kernel, memtest, etc.

Do we know any more about this behavior?

Thanks

---

