---
title: "VueScan user privilege problem"
date: 2010-09-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bootedguy on 2010-09-23
I am running the latest version of VueScan (8.6.62) with 64-bit Lucid with a Canon USB film scanner (FS-4000US).  Everything works fine if I run as root.  But if I try to run as a normal user, the software cannot find the scanner, although the program otherwise runs fine.  While I can live with running as root, the files which are generated by the program are owned by root, and it is a nuisance.  Any help in solving this conundrum will be most appreciated.

John

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2010-09-23
You need to modify the ownership and/or permissions on whatever file VueScan is using to access your scanner. This can be done on a one-time basis with chown or chmod, but for a long-term solution you'll have to change your udev configuration. This is done by creating or editing files in /etc/udev/rules.d. For instance, I created a new file, 99-minolta.rules, that looks like this:

```

SUBSYSTEM!="usb_device", ACTION!="add", GOTO="minolta_rules_end"

# Minolta|DiMAGE Scan Elite 5400
ATTR{idVendor}=="0686", ATTR{idProduct}="400e", SYMLINK+="scan-elite" MODE="0666", OWNER="rodsmith", GROUP="scanner"

LABEL="minolta_rules_end"

```

This changes the ownership to rodsmith in the scanner group and sets the access permissions to 0666 for the device with an idVendor of 0686 and and idProduct of 400e. It also creates a symbolic link called /dev/scan-elite (just for convenience in locating the original device file; it's not required for basic functioning). You can find the ID codes (0686 and 400e for me) by typing "lsusb". You'll see entries for all your USB devices. For me, the scanner's entry is:

```

Bus 001 Device 010: ID 0686:400e Minolta Co., Ltd Dimage 5400

```

The ID is obvious. You should be able to use my udev rules file; just tweak it for your scanner and your username. With the file in place, turn off or unplug the scanner. When you turn it back on or reconnect it, the permissions and ownership of the device file should change, giving you access.

---

### Post by bootedguy on 2010-09-23
Thank you so very much.  Your very excellent instructions solved my problem.

John

---

### Post by satbunny on 2010-11-20
I am using Maverick 10.10 64bit, and I have lost sight of my scsi scanner due to root permissions on /dev/sg2
I can change them but they change back. I used to have a UDEV solution but it seems to have been deleted, and so I am trying to follow the ones here.

I used sane-finder-scanner to find the location of my SCSI scanner:

> sudo sane-find-scanner

  # sane-find-scanner will now attempt to detect your scanner. If the
  # result is different from what you expected, first make sure your
  # scanner is powered up and properly connected to your computer.

found SCSI processor "EPSON GT-X900 1.05" at /dev/sg2
  # Your SCSI scanner was detected. It may or may not be supported by SANE. Try
  # scanimage -L and read the backend's manpage.


This gave me the location of /dev/sg2
I then ran :

> udevadm info -a -p /sys/class/scsi_generic/sg2

This gives you streams of data, but the stuff you want is either here or in the file

> /lib/udev/rules.d/40-libsane.rules

I then re-edited the rodsmith file above and created:

> SUBSYSTEM=="scsi_generic", ACTION!="add", GOTO="epsonGT900_rules_end"

# Epson GTX900
ATTRS{idVendor}=="04b8", ATTRS{idProduct}=="012b", ENV{libsane_matched}="yes", SYMLINK+="scanner" MODE="0666", OWNER="thomaszunder", GROUP="scanner"

LABEL="epsonGT900_rules_end"

I am now going to reboot, wish me luck..

---

### Post by satbunny on 2010-11-20
Didn't work.. I went back to my 10.04 install using Clonezilla and it all works again, although I don't know why, since /dev/sg2 still has the root priveleges!

---

