---
title: "11.04 boot problems on ThinkPad x120e"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bigoperm on 2011-10-18
I have installed 64-bit 11.10 onto my ThinkPad x120e. According to the installer, everything was a success. However, when I boot, my system first tries to obtain a DHCP address (as though it's booting from the network), then fails saying "no operating system found." What is especially strange is that other (older) versions of Ubuntu install/boot/run just fine -- 10.04 LTS, for example -- suggesting it's not a disk problem.

A browse of the web produces others who have had similar problems, but none, I feel, describing exactly the same issue I'm having. Moreover, none of the suggested fixes have worked. Things I've tried:

[LIST=1]
[*]Booting from a Live CD and replacing grub-efi with grub-pc
[*]BIOS update
[*][Installation instructions from the Community Documentation]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/X120e#Installation")
[*][Boot-Repair]("https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair-cd")
[/LIST]

Any suggestions, or pointers, would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-10-18
Please post the results of the boot info script to help us diagnose the issue.

There is a link at the bottom of my post with instructions.

Thanks.

---

### Post by bigoperm on 2011-10-18
Hopefully this is what you were referring to: [http://paste.debian.net/137600]("http://paste.debian.net/137600")

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-10-19
You are not booting with UEFI, but standard BIOS. No efi partiton,  and not gpt partitioning.

You do have grub2's boot loader also installed to the PBR partition boot sector but that will not ever be used and does not matter. Ignore.

But your Grub in the MBR shows it is looking for ?? as the drive. I have seen this more lately, not sure if very latest grub and script are not working together or not, but I would reinstall grub2's boot loader to the MBR.

If it is trying to network boot, you may have one of the few BIOS that only boot a hard drive with a boot flag. Grub does not use boot flag, Windows has to have one on a primary partition , but a few BIOS follow Windows and will not even let you start to boot without boot flag on a primary partition.

You can use gparted (right click, flags), disk utility (edit partition) or command line to add a boot flag to sda1.

#set boot flag on for sda1 (off on others)
```
sudo sfdisk -A1 /dev/sda
```

#From liveCD reinstall grub2's boot loader to sda:
```
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
sudo grub-install --boot-directory=/mnt/boot /dev/sda

```

---

### Post by bigoperm on 2011-10-20
That worked! Thanks

---

