---
title: "help me please"
date: 2009-10-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by amamha84 on 2009-10-06
Hi everybody...

I am a new ubuntu user, i have switched from windows vista lately, and i am not fimiliar yet with linux systems. But i loved the ubuntu 9.04 very much.. it works great for me till now.

i have some questions:

1. Can i log as root user? and how?

2. I want to configure the "/etc/X11/xorg.conf" file because it contains the screen     resolution used and it consists to keep it @ 1024 x 768 each time i restart my PC
while my LCD is 1280 x 800, i don't know how to save my configurations in that file. i should modify the resolution each time i login!! :(.

3. If i am downloading a new packages using "Add/Remove" Application or "Synaptic Package Manager" for installation, where these pacages are placed? i want to get the sources to keep them as my internet connection speed is not high to dounload them again many times.. i want to keep them to install at later time.

4. How to creat a program launcher and specify an icon to it?

i hope to have answers from the profisionals here ASAP
thanks in advance
thanks in advance

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-10-06
> **amamha84 said:**
> 2. I want to configure the "/etc/X11/xorg.conf" file because it contains the screen     resolution used and it consists to keep it @ 1024 x 768 each time i restart my PC
while my LCD is 1280 x 800, i don't know how to save my configurations in that file. i should modify the resolution each time i login!! :(.


Back up the file:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```Open the file to make your changes permanent:

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```Change your resolution, hit ctl/X to exit and 'y' to save. Reboot the machine. If you get problems change the resolution back or copy the original file back to where it was with:


```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```You do NOT want to log in as root user. It is not a good idea. 'sudo' in a terminal makes you root for the next command you issue. 

sudo = Super User DO. So put sudo in front of any command you need to be root to perform.

4. Right click on the top toolbar and 'Add to panel ... "
Create custom launcher.
Name it and put in the command (You will need to find this for each app. - firefox for instance is 'firefox'.)

The easiest way to create a launcher for an existing app is to hit Applications, go to the app and simply drag the app to the toolbar and drop it. Done, and it leaves the app also in the applications menu.

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2009-10-06
To become Root, you need to enter this command in Terminal: **gksudo nautilus**  
[COLOR="Red"]**Please be very careful what you do on your system when you become Root**[/COLOR]

---

### Post by ispy on 2009-10-06
logging in as root user is discouraged because of potential damage to the file system and such. It's generally a bad idea. if you need root access at a terminal, type

```
sudo -i
```

That will elevate you to root access for that terminal session only. Once you close the terminal, it's over. easier than that, however is to execute your command as sudo. It will remember that and won't ask you for your password for 5 minutes.

if you want GUI nautilus root access, do as the poster before me said and type:

```
gksudo nautilus
```

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-10-06
Have a look here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

---

### Post by amamha84 on 2009-10-06
thanks for all off you... 
your support will encourage me  to relay on ubuntu

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-10-06
3. The packages you download are cached in /var/cache/apt/archives, so you can copy them to a different location if you want to avoid having them be cleared.

If you (hypothetically) reinstalled Ubuntu and wanted to use those packages again, you'd put them back into /var/cache/apt/archives and install the packages in Synaptic. The local copies would be used for the installation, unless the repositories had a newer version available.

---

### Post by amamha84 on 2009-10-07
i succeeded to configure the xorg.config file and this is it now:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "TOSHIBA Internal Panel"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX Go5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x800 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

but still have the same problem although the 1280x800 mode is listed!!!
what should i do?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-10-07
In my experience, "metamodes" just doesn't work. In the "Display" subsection, add a new line that says this

```
Modes     "1280x800"
```

Don't quote me on this (it's been a while since I've made this modification to an xorg.conf) but that should force X to use this display mode.

---

