---
title: "8.04 to 8.10....lots of issues."
date: 2008-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by douglasf01 on 2008-10-24
Ok so here is the thing, I got tired of using vista, so I switched to ubuntu. nuff said.
Anwyay, a few weeks ago I installed hardy heron and got it to work the way Iw anted it to, no special themes or anything but you know compiz fusion, and backgrounds, and a different color format for the windows and such, nothing to extensive.
Well just last night I noticed the RC release of Intrepid Ibex and decided to update.
I guess thats where I went wrong. It finished upgrading, and so I decided, well, I want to fully customize this to look like a mac, but not completely, idk, im odd. Anyway, so I install a them I like get it running for the most part, you know I got the dock to work and the theme to install, but them compiz fusion cube effect stopped working, and yes it was enabled with 4 sides, and everything, none of special effects were working. I used the program AWN and GTK-CHtheme, and I am wondering if that is waht caused it.
Or os there some certain way to get a theme manager to work with compiz fusion?

I want to fix this fast, cause I really enjoy ubuntu, but it can go so terribly wrong so fast.

Let me know something.

---

### Post by douglasf01 on 2008-10-24
NVM, im installing fedora core 9.

---

### Post by jamillikan on 2008-10-24
Today I did a fresh install of Intrepid Ibex RC on a spare computer and all I can say is WOW.  Marvelous!  Everything worked perfectly and is truly polished.  Installed VMWare with NO ISSUES.  Compiz-fusion is amazing.

I just know this iteration of Ubuntu is going to spread like wildfire.  It's wonderful and polished.

Kudos to all who participated in the production of this product.

I'm speechless. . . and thrilled beyond words.

---

### Post by wykedengel on 2008-10-27
> **jamillikan said:**
> Today I did a fresh install of Intrepid Ibex RC on a spare computer and all I can say is WOW.  Marvelous!  Everything worked perfectly and is truly polished.  Installed VMWare with NO ISSUES.  Compiz-fusion is amazing. [snip]

glad someone had success with installing 8.10. on my hp pavilion dv6736nr, it was a bust. could not get my nvidia card to work and wireless was a no go.

i am hoping these issues will be addressed before the final release in three days...

*sigh*

---

