---
title: "waves on my monitor: ati radeon drivers?"
date: 2010-12-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tanoloco on 2010-12-21
Hello,

Since my first installation of ubuntu (9.04) I've got a big problem using this os: waves on my monitor!

> Motherboard -> Intel D850GB (Garibaldi)
 cpu -> Intel Pentium 4 - 2.0 GHz
graphic card -> ATI Radeon 9250 128 MB DDR
RAM  -> 		2.0 GB
    1024 MB (2x516) RIMM SAMSUNG 800 MHz
    1024 MB (2x516) RIMM SAMSUNG 800 MHz
Monitor: Hyundai x91d

 
> 
$ lsb_release -rd
Description:    Ubuntu 10.10
Release:    10.10

> 
$ uname -r
2.6.35-24-generic

> 
$ lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 PRO] (rev 01)


I never succeeded in solving this issue, but now I'm working a lot of hours per day with ubuntu and my eyes are suffering!

I thought it might be related with ati drivers, so
a)
I decided to install, I downloaded 
fglrx64_6_8_0-8.28.8-1.x86_64.rpm
from 
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/linux64-radeon-prer200.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/linux64-radeon-prer200.aspx)
which is the [X.Org 6.8 Drivers]("https://a248.e.akamai.net/f/674/9206/0/www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/64bit/fglrx64_6_8_0-8.28.8-1.x86_64.rpm") ooption
coming form 
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx)

b)
I installed alien
```
sudo apt-get install alien
```
I tried to convert it to deb
```
sudo alien -k --scripts fglrx64_6_8_0-8.28.8-1.x86_64.rpm
```
and it says me:
> fglrx64-6-8-0_8.28.8-1_amd64.deb generated

 but I cannot find it anywhere!
Then I'm on 32bit not 64 ...

Anyhow I spent hours followin many many threads about ati drivers ...
but nothing is working.

Now: is there anyone please that can help me step by step in solving this issue please?
I'm quite new with linux and my knowledge is still limited .. it's very frustrating :(

I haven't found any driver for my monitor ... in case those waves are generated by the monitor ..
In windows the machine works correctly. So there's no hardware broken.

---

### Post by tanoloco on 2010-12-21
Hi again
I spent other time over that and it seems that my graphic card is not supported by ati drivers under linux, in fact it seems that the last catalyst supporting it was 6.5 and I cannot find any ati-driver-installer earlier than 7.

So .. is it a choice to buy a used newer graphic card, in your opinion, for my system?
Is there a way to install some other open drivers that can work good without waves?

The waves increase when activity increases .. maybe it's connected to memory.

Any help?

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2010-12-21
Ive been using similar cards (several machines) with 8.10, 10.04 and haven't seen these problems.

I haven't installed any special drivers, especially as there seemed to be known problems with the ATI home-brewed drivers.
Could it be anything to do with the connection interface used? I've used both DVI and VGA with LW monitors, without problem.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-12-21
> **tanoloco said:**
> Hi again
I spent other time over that and it seems that my graphic card is not supported by ati drivers under linux, in fact it seems that the last catalyst supporting it was 6.5 and I cannot find any ati-driver-installer earlier than 7.
Even if you DID find them, you couldn't use them as they are incompatible with X-server versions used in recent Ubuntu versions.

> So .. is it a choice to buy a used newer graphic card, in your opinion, for my system?
If you want AMD drivers support, then yes.

> Is there a way to install some other open drivers that can work good without waves?

Unfortunately, no -- your only drivers are the ones you already have installed.

---

### Post by tanoloco on 2010-12-22
[SIZE=2]Ok guys .. maybe I solved .. I leave the thread without the tag "solved" to test it a little bit just to be sure.

I did a lot of things, but what changed something was:

1) Thanks to the suggestion of **dandnsmith **I thought to check the connection phisically, cehcking the card and the cables .. I put away any little electric cable next to the graphic card, especially those rare junction not well covered .. I put all the other cards on the lower levels especially those who require power cables and left a space between my agp and the other cards. Then I check that the cable which connect the card to my monitor was free without any electric cable in the nearby.
That reduced my impression of waves .. but still they were there.

2) I did some trick: first as explained here
[COLOR=Blue]>[/COLOR] [/SIZE][COLOR=Blue][http://www.niccolofavari.com/ubuntu-10.04-lucid-issues-with-external-monitor-and-ati-radeon-card](http://www.niccolofavari.com/ubuntu-10.04-lucid-issues-with-external-monitor-and-ati-radeon-card)[/COLOR] [COLOR=Blue]<[/COLOR]
I typed
```
gksudo gedit [COLOR=#000000]**/**[/COLOR]etc[COLOR=#000000]**/**[/COLOR]modprobe.d[COLOR=#000000]**/**[/COLOR]radeon-kms.conf
```and added
```
options radeon [COLOR=#007800]modeset[/COLOR]=[COLOR=#000000]0[/COLOR]
```to the blank sheet .. saved, exited and rebooted.

and then as expplained here:
[COLOR=Blue]>[/COLOR][COLOR=Blue][ https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver")[/COLOR] [COLOR=Blue]<[/COLOR]
I fully removed fglrx and reinstalled ati from scratch:
```
sudo /usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh  # (if it exists)
sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx*
sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xorg-video-ati xserver-xorg-video-radeon 
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-ati
sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri xserver-xorg-core
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```And this reduced a lot of wave effect!

3) Finally I removed anything concerned compiz using synaptic and then reinstalled only compiz

And this seems to have done the trick!

Now I don't know exactly which is the solution, maybe I will test in a future new my fresh installation of ubuntu which is the real solver,
but for now I will follow testing this situation with apparently no waves!

AH! I forgot: I changed in System > Preferences > Monitor the frequency to 60 Hz

Hoping this holds and someone else could be helped by this.

Cheers and thanks to all for your help!

BTW: for **Mark**: I'm not interested in having AMD drivers support :)
only no waves, thank you for your note!!! Very helpful for me to understand your point over compatibility on ubuntu.

---

### Post by Nimbus200 on 2010-12-22
I'm on Radeon 9600 which I think at the same "age" with your 9200
And yes, we should use radeon driver packed with xorg

Maybe you can try to add **nomodeset** to your kernel parameter when you boot your computer.
I have no idea whether this has the same effect as **options radeon modeset=0**

---

