---
title: "Mouse scroll wheel behaving erratically"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by spadewarrior on 2008-04-28
When I scroll my mouse wheel up or down it sometimes seems to do the opposite to what it should. For example, if I scroll down a page in Firefox, it will occasionally scroll up partially before going down again. Also, it seems to be getting gradually worse...

I'm not sure if this is a bug in my ubuntu or if the mouse is faulty... It's an unbranded optical (wired) usb mouse, two regular buttons with a clickable, scrollable wheel. 

Has anybody else had this or am I looking at getting a new mouse(again)?

In case it benefits anyone, here's my xorg.conf:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by spadewarrior on 2008-04-29
Anyone?

---

### Post by knaveman on 2008-04-29
I am having similar problems with a touchpad. It only seems to noticeably effect firefox. If I can figure this out I will let you know.

---

### Post by hardyxpdual on 2008-11-29
I too have the same problem, looking for a fix, and my log looks the same as yours for mouse.  Scroll wheel works, but not how it should, very erratic.

Help please.

---

### Post by campbell226 on 2008-12-30
Hey,

Ive fixed this problem. I have optical wireless mouse and keyboard. If your mouse is like mine (scrolling but not fully responsive, and occasionally scrolling without being told to) then you have dust and hair inside wheel mechanism itself. To fix your mouse open it up carefully and remove the dust inside the sensor.

I did this yesterday and havent had a problem since.

Good luck

---

### Post by nonanano on 2009-06-19
> **campbell226 said:**
> Hey,

Ive fixed this problem. I have optical wireless mouse and keyboard. If your mouse is like mine (scrolling but not fully responsive, and occasionally scrolling without being told to) then you have dust and hair inside wheel mechanism itself. To fix your mouse open it up carefully and remove the dust inside the sensor.

I did this yesterday and havent had a problem since.

Good luck

Ummm... yeah so guess what, you rock. I got some tweasers and grabbed the hairs out of the mouse and sure enough it's now behaving :))))

---

### Post by cguy on 2009-08-01
I have a similar problem with an A4Tech mouse. The thing is ~2 weeks old and scrolling works like crap on Ubuntu, Crunchbang, Knoppix and Vista, but the problem dissapears on Vista after I install the driver which came with the mouse.

The problem got so bad on Ubuntu it takes me 3x more to scroll down a page.

Any solution for me?

Unfortunately, it's not a hardware problem so I can't make use of the warranty. :(

---

### Post by cguy on 2009-08-02
Bumpity bump!

---

### Post by oneamongu on 2009-10-26
hi,

I had the same problem with mouse scroll wheel. I think one of causes of the problem is with the wheel loosing friction. Notice that step-step-step motion when you scroll with the wheel.....ya.... that gear part wears out; I think thats when  scrolling starts to jump one step forward, two step backwards...making it very hard on your eyes...

I opened my mouse and  pinched the moving part a little tighter...and it kind of gave me a better mouse scroll...but the thing is, I feel it is going to wear off soon...

So hope this helps others with  similar problem...

(It has nothing it to do with the OS... the problem is the same in windows XP as well..)

-O A U

---

### Post by frmdstryr on 2010-06-29
> **campbell226 said:**
> Hey,

Ive fixed this problem. I have optical wireless mouse and keyboard. If your mouse is like mine (scrolling but not fully responsive, and occasionally scrolling without being told to) then you have dust and hair inside wheel mechanism itself. To fix your mouse open it up carefully and remove the dust inside the sensor.

I did this yesterday and havent had a problem since.

Good luck

Just blew and scrolled the wheel, now it works smoothly!! Thanks.

---

