---
title: "10.10 Disk Quota Problem"
date: 2011-03-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tlwolfe99 on 2011-03-03
I'm not sure where to post this problem/question so I'm starting here. I have installed Ubuntu 10.10 and can not get disk quotas running.  I have searched the web and tried almost every combination of examples/instructions I found there but nothing works. (By the way, there are a lot of different instructions out there, and no indication of why or if one is better that the other.) 

The  basic questions are
    Are disk quotas broken in 10.10?
And
    If not, how do I make them work?

Thanks for any help you can give me.:)

P.S. I'm running Ubuntu 10.10 in a VirtualBox on a Window 7 system (for now).

---

### Post by quanchidosan on 2011-03-03
the same problem

---

### Post by tlwolfe99 on 2011-03-08
Solved...

With a little help for someone else I found out what the problem is.  Apparently on a Ubuntu workstation, everyone has a "gvfs" filesystem (.gvfs directory) in their account's root directory.  It is put there because of Gnome (for good reasons).

The disk quota system/tools do not understand this filesystem and fails.  This is apparently a know problem.

There appears to be no easy workaround.  However, you can switch to a Ubuntu server (which is not what I wanted to do).  I don't know if using Kbuntu will solve the problem.

Command lines are good but it would be nice to have a graphics interface for the simple stuff on my server. ;)

Note: Anyone know about running at a different run level?
I assume the "gvfs" filesystem is still there.

---

### Post by tlwolfe99 on 2011-03-08
I'm going to look at the "defaults" when accounts are created.  Perhaps there is a way to "turnoff" gvfs for new accounts?

---

