---
title: "please help x config"
date: 2008-05-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AndreiMe on 2008-05-25
every time i reboot or start ubuntu the screen resolution of my monitor in dropped to 1024x768. i want it to remain at the preferred 1280x1024. is there any way i ca save the xconfig file or something like that because from the nvidia panel it says it cannot override the file or something like that. please help.

---

### Post by latna on 2008-05-25
Try running it with sudo.

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by Prospero2006 on 2008-05-25
The master file for your X configuration is locate here:

/etc/X11/xorg.conf

-Make a backup before you mess with it.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-25
> **latna said:**
> Try running it with sudo.

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

Yes if you run it from terminal this will let you make changes. Make sure you check the box to merge when you choose "Save to X Configuration File" so that any custom settings in the xorg.conf are preserved.

---

### Post by AndreiMe on 2008-05-26
Save to X Configuration File didn't work. so i tried to do something with the xorg.conf. i don't remember exactly what but i forced my resolution to 640x480. i was pretty upset until i edited the file once more and it worked. the downside is, now before the login i have a nvidia screen streched far beyond the monitor i can see only a part of it and when the login screen shows up i can see only ub and half of another u because it is to big. but in ubuntu everything is fine. any ideas how to fix that?

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-26
Can you post your xorg.conf?

---

### Post by AndreiMe on 2008-05-27
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	1024
		Modes		"1280x1024@60"
	EndSubSection
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce FX (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce FX (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by AndreiMe on 2008-05-27
i have an nvidia geforce fx 5500 and in ubuntu everything is fine.... just the login screen is like zooming in alot and whithout the option to move around.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-27
You seem to have multiple configurations for the same types of things in your xorg, if you look there is Screen 1 and Default Screen, try making both of them the exact same along with your Monitor sections.

---

### Post by AndreiMe on 2008-05-28
i have a tv i also connect every now and then.... it may be that?

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-28
> **AndreiMe said:**
> i have a tv i also connect every now and then.... it may be that?

That is a possibility. I have an HDTV hooked up to my laptop every so often, but I have managed to save the configuration into the xorg so that whenever the TV is configured it uses that, otherwise it uses the default configuration. There is a possibility that that messes up the config.

---

