---
title: "911!!"
date: 2010-12-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by altair4040 on 2010-12-29
Comrades,

My computer's messed up. I have ubuntu 10.10 installed on it. Due to frequent power cuts in my country, it shut down while running. As a result, I think some problem has occurred.

Since I wasn't able to start it, I thought I should reinstall the OS. I thought using the live CD to access my hard disk and backup all the data before I reinstalled. 

So the problem I'm facing is that whenever i try to access my hard drive using the live CD the following message pops up :

>   DBus error org.gtk.Private.RemoteVolumeMonitor.Failed: An operation is already pendingI am in need of urgent help

thank you

PS : I'm a newbie. I'm not familiar with the bash command [or whatever you call it]. So I'd appreciate if you offered me advice in comprehensible and simple english.

---

### Post by noah++ on 2010-12-29
Have you tried Google searching for that error? There seem to be [some helpful results]("http://ubuntuforums.org/ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7387017").

If they don't help you, can you describe the steps you are using to back up your data, and tell us just when you are encountering that error?

By the way, visiting this forum is like calling 911. We want you to describe the emergency in your post's title, so the operator with the right expertise can take your call. Don't just yell "911" again. ;)

(Come to think of it, this is more like walk-in urgent care. If we can't help you fast enough, the #ubuntu channel on Freenode IRC is more like 911.)

---

