---
title: "18.04 - Central Dock"
date: 2018-06-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jrtaylor on 2018-06-18
Hi, 

Iv just installed 18.04 and have my dock at the bottom.  Is there any way to have it in the middle as well?  

It looks strange with all the icons on the left.  

Thanks, 
James.

---

### Post by vanadium on 2018-06-18
In settings there is a section that allows you to change placement of the dock.

---

### Post by jrtaylor on 2018-06-18
Yes I have found the Dock settings and moved it to the bottom.  There is also the option to resize and this is great.  

However, I want to be able to move the dock to not only the bottom, but the bottom center.  

All my icons are over to the left and it looks funny.

---

### Post by bodhin2 on 2018-06-18
i was hoping that was possible too.

---

### Post by leunam12 on 2018-06-18
A workaround would be to install Docky, Cairo-dock or Plank.

---

### Post by bodhin2 on 2018-06-18
checked out docky or whatever last week and seemd to not do what i thought or it said it could  tried cairo dock this am  - used it many years ago when using gnome and i liked it - but today said all plugins missing and not sure what that meant - even with a newer laptop than used before.  so i deleted it.  anyone have any clues about the plugins missing?  thanks - not to hijack the thread but to add additional info and questions.  I like the cnetered dynamic too.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-06-18
Turn off (uncheck) the expand the panel option in dash to dock settings:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]280143[/ATTACH]
that should then show centered.

---

### Post by bodhin2 on 2018-06-18
not sure who you are saying this to?  me or the other person.  However, i do not see anything that looks like what you provided?  can you define it more please.  if this could work for me i would love it!  Thanks again for the help.

ok i see you have install dash to dock.  i  got it to work and trying to figure out the various settings to tweak etc.  Thank you dead flower!

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-06-18
> **bodhin2 said:**
> not sure who you are saying this to?  me or the other person.  However, i do not see anything that looks like what you provided?  can you define it more please.  if this could work for me i would love it!  Thanks again for the help.

To the OP, obviously. (I would quote who ever else I would be replying to)
It's a setting in dash to dock's setting panel.
You need to add the dash to dock extension.

This is assuming the OP already did, since it's the easiest way to get the setting.
The setting* can* be set through dconf editor, but you need to know the name, as it differs there.
(the dconf setting would be at org >  gnome > shell > extensions > dash-to-dock > extend-height and set it to false to not extend and apply the setting)

Edit:> ok i see you have install dash to dock. i got it to work and trying to figure out the various settings to tweak etc. Thank you dead flower!


yeah it takes a minute to get it how you want.

Note that since you should already have Ubuntu dock enabled, you do not need (or should want) to enable the dash to dock option.
All you need is to use the dash to dock settings.
The settings transfer to Ubuntu dock.

There is an extension called Ubuntu dock settings but it's out of date for the version Ubuntu 18.04 uses.
(Or it is from what I see. But maybe I'm blind or purposely ignorant)
So using the dash to dock settings works in place of that dilapidated extension.

---

### Post by bodhin2 on 2018-06-18
Thank you.  yes it seems to work great on my 2 laptops and my wife's.  That is perfect for my needs, likes, wants, and aesthetics!  As usual - i greatly appreciate all of your help.  seems nicer than other docks as such.  also there is so much here that i probably would not have found it.  :-)

---

