---
title: "[SOLVED] how to auto-mount a disk"
date: 2008-01-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by charlescarroll1 on 2008-01-12
I am running Ubuntu 7.10 and have Windows XP on my laptop.

I want to know how I can make the Windows partition automatically mount every time I log in, without having to click and type in my password.

---

### Post by MobiusNZ on 2008-01-12
You'll need to edit your fstab file. Note that this can be dangerous if you don't know what you're doing.

You need to find the line that has the definition for the windows partition and add "auto" to the list of options. Don't forget to not have any spaces in the options. Here's my fstab for reference

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda3
UUID=96216942-b78c-4b76-a8f1-b8fbaa4f6d4a /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0      1
# /dev/sda1
UUID=52D43338D4331E23 /windows/c      ntfs    defaults,umask=007,gid=46,auto 0       1
# /dev/sda2
UUID=8424AFBC24AFAF9A /windows/d      ntfs    defaults,umask=007,gid=46,auto 0     0
 
```

---

### Post by charlescarroll1 on 2008-01-12
Can I edit the file from the terminal?

I don't think I've ever edited a file before.

Do you think you can guide me through it?

---

### Post by rocketman768 on 2008-01-12
You *can* edit a file from the command line using something like vi, but it's a powerful and therefore somewhat complicated editor. To use a graphical editor, type

```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

...and enter your password when the window comes up. FYI, gedit is the gnome editor, and gksudo allows you to become the super user so that you can edit the fstab file.

---

### Post by MobiusNZ on 2008-01-12
A less complicated terminal text editor is nano
```
sudo nano /etc/fstab
```
Navigate round with the keyboard arrow keys, and to use the functions at the bottom of the screen press CTRL+[Key], eg to save and quit CTRL+x

---

### Post by MobiusNZ on 2008-01-12
> **charlescarroll1 said:**
> Can I edit the file from the terminal?

I don't think I've ever edited a file before.

Do you think you can guide me through it?

If you can copy and paste the contents of /etc/fstab here I can suggest the changes you need to make.

---

### Post by charlescarroll1 on 2008-01-12
This is what I see in gedit.


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=9aa9be57-f22d-4b35-8228-e1307c071904 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=3084667d-fa29-4ea2-ab02-2a69a16e8254 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0


How do I know which one is my Windows partition?

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-01-12
All you need to do is use ntfs-config...does everything for you.  You'll even have write access to windows partitions.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions?highlight=%28windows%29#head-c067eb7e3cd4107cc08cdf30a9e1aed8adb02971](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions?highlight=%28windows%29#head-c067eb7e3cd4107cc08cdf30a9e1aed8adb02971)

---

### Post by MobiusNZ on 2008-01-12
You don't appear to have any mention of the windows partitions in your fstab file at all. Ubuntu must just be picking it up automatically, which is why you need to pop your password in to confirm you really want it.

Anyway, I'm going to assume that because your / partition is on /dev/sda3 that you have two windows partitions (C: and D: usually)? If you don't then just cut out the stuff relating to the D drive.

First up, create the mount points for them. If there is only one drive I usually just use /windows, if there is more than one I use /windows/c, /windows/d etc. As it keeps it nice and familiar.

Open up your terminal and type
```

sudo mkdir -p /windows/c   [press enter]
sudo mkdir -p /windows/d   [press enter]

```

Then take a backup of your current fstab

```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.back
```

Then open up the fstab file in gedit

```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

Copy and paste this code block into that file.
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=9aa9be57-f22d-4b35-8228-e1307c071904 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=3084667d-fa29-4ea2-ab02-2a69a16e8254 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

#Mount our windows drives
/dev/sda1   /windows/c    ntfs   defaults,rw    0   0
/dev/sda2   /windows/d    ntfs   defaults,rw    0   0

```

Don't forget to adjust the mount points in that text to match the folders you created.

Test that the fstab is ok, by running this in the terminal
```
sudo mount -a
```

You shouldn't get any output after running this (it should just bring you back to the prompt).
If you got an error, paste it back here, and copy the backup fstab back (sudo cp /etc/fstab.bak /etc/fstab).

If everything seems ok, try browse to those directories.

Hope that helps

---

### Post by charlescarroll1 on 2008-01-12
Hey thanks MobiusNZ!!!

It works!!!

---

