---
title: "12.04 - Additional Drivers (Jockey-GTK) Not Working"
date: 2013-01-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ooleyguy on 2013-01-28
I have a GeForce 550 Ti video card on Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS and have read on multiple forums and help sites to use System Settings > Additional Drivers to install drivers. I click the Additional Drivers icon and it says searching for drivers and then just goes away. I click it again and it doesn't even do that.

I read somewhere here to do the following commands and here is the output:

sean@elric:~$ lspci -v | grep nvidia
	Kernel modules: nouveau, nvidiafb
sean@elric:~$ lspci -v | grep amd
	Kernel modules: amd64_edac_mod

I would rather use the Ubuntu approved way of getting these drivers instead of some workaround, but I am getting tired of having a desktop resolution that is terrible (1280x1024) when I can support 1680x1050.

How do I get this Additional Drivers thing to work?

BTW, I have used sudo software-properties-gtk to enable all the third-party repositories, etc. and have not added any that aren't already there.

Thank you.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-01-28
the question is : do you get troubles with graphics ?

actually you are using "nouveau" as the driver, but you can install nvidia-current from the repo too:

sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

then to get around the jocket issue:

sudo apt-get purge jockey-gtk
sudo apt-get install jockey-gtk

and finally choose which driver to activate (optional):

sudo jockey-gtk

if you still get a crash, then watch the errors logged into ./home/youruser/.xsession-errors  (ctrl+h to unhide it)

---

### Post by ooleyguy on 2013-01-28
That didn't work exactly for me, but I did find this:

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

from:
[http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-The-Latest-Nvidia-Driver-on-Ubuntu-12-04-295542.shtml]("http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-The-Latest-Nvidia-Driver-on-Ubuntu-12-04-295542.shtml")

Now it works fine and Jockey works ok too. Your advice steered me in the right direction. Apparently the repositories I had selected in the update manager thing didn't contain the nVidia drivers and I needed to add that x-swat/x-updates one.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-01-28
> **dino99 said:**
> sudo jockey-gtk

I'm sure you meant 'gksu' and not 'sudo' ;)

---

