---
title: "Re: 12.10 libjbig0"
date: 2012-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrewT on 2012-10-21
It did not work for me. (Should I open a new thread since this one is marked "Solved"?) While I have the symptoms described here, my problems may go deeper. My system hangs whenever I try to shut it down (or reboot). It seems to be hanging somewhere in the Kubuntu code so I tried uninstalling KDE and everything associated with it -- which didn't seem to work at all. The K desktop is still there and the system is still hanging while (apparently) logging out of K. (Although I have been using the Ubuntu/Unity environment so I don't know if it's accurate to say it's logging out of K.)

Anyway I don't know where to start to troubleshoot this. It may be time for a clean reinstall -- something I haven't had to do since I first installed Ubuntu (Hardy). Anybody got a less drastic suggestion? If not, is there a good guide on how to do a complete reinstall? (I think I'll leave KDE out of it this time -- I like some K apps -- most notably k3b -- but have never gotten used to the desktop environment.)

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-10-21
Post moved to its own thread.

---

### Post by DrewT on 2012-10-21
To recap (or start over), I'm running Ubuntu and Kubuntu (though I rarely use KDE). I upgraded to 12.10 using software upgrade. During installation I received two error messages. The first said:

[INDENT]Could not install 'libjbig0'
The upgrade will continue but the 'libjbig0' package may not be in a working state. Please consider submitting a bug report about it.
no package named `libjbig0' is installed, cannot configure[/INDENT]

The second said:

[INDENT]Could not install 'libtiff5'
The upgrade will continue but the 'libtiff5' package may not be in a working state. Please consider submitting a bug report about it.
no package named `libtiff5' is installed, cannot configure[/INDENT]

After the upgrade process completed I got a message that the upgrade had not been completely successful and I should run _sudo apt-get update -f_. This did not appear to do anything and certainly did not fix my system. 

I have also tried _sudo apt-get -f install_ followed by _sudo apt-get autoremove_, as suggested [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2072997"), but this has not alleviated my problems. 

I'm getting a number of strange symptoms. I think I have some broken dependencies (though I barely know what that means), and one of the things that's broken may be apt-get itself. This is because I've tried to run a number of install and uninstall operations, from the terminal and using various apps, and I'm not sure they're working at all. The whole system is very slow, and some apps (e.g. Movie Player) are barely working at all.

The weirdest symptom (so far) is that the system hangs on a Kubuntu screen during shutdown. The screen looks like this:

[INDENT]              Kubuntu 12.10
                        . . . .              [ OK ]
 * All processes ended within 1 seconds .... [ OK ]
modem-manager[1065]: <info> Caught signal 15, shutting down ...

Rather than invoking init scripts through /etc/init.d, use the service(8 )
utility, e.g. service S35networking stop
initctl: Unknown job: S35networking

Since the script you are attempting to invoke has been converted to an
Upstart job, you may also use the stop(8 ) utility, e.g., stop S35networking
 *Deactivating swap...[/INDENT]

At that point the shutdown stops. Hitting CTRL-ALT-DELETE basically produces a repeat of the above messages and then a hardware shutdown is necessary.

As reported in the initial post, I tried uninstalling KDE entirely but it didn't seem to work at all as I was able to boot into the K environment and continued to get the above messages on shutdown.

Any advice on how to proceed (or a pointer to a good comprehensive page on how to do a clean reinstall of 12.10) would be most welcome.

---

### Post by ryoqun on 2012-11-13
Hi, I think this is related to following multiple launchpad bug reports:

package libjbig0 2.0-2ubuntu1 failed to install/upgrade: no package named `libjbig0' is installed, cannot configure

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jbigkit/+bug/1025408](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jbigkit/+bug/1025408)

Quantal upgrade says "no package named `libjbig0' is installed, cannot configure"

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-release-upgrader/+bug/1068555](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-release-upgrader/+bug/1068555)

package libtiff5 4.0.2-1ubuntu1 failed to install/upgrade: no package named `libtiff5' is installed, cannot configure

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tiff/+bug/1025405](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tiff/+bug/1025405)

---

### Post by DrewT on 2012-11-13
Thanks ryoqun. Since posting this I have done a complete reinstall. My system still shows a variety of bugs/anomalies, but it's generally usable. If I had it to over again, I would have stayed with 12.4 and refrained from upgrading until the next LTS version was released.

---

### Post by parix on 2012-11-20
I'm having the very same problem with shutdown since I updated from 12.04. I have a standard Ubuntu for amd64.

---

### Post by DrewT on 2012-11-21
I am also running an AMD-64 system, so that may tell us something. I haven't tried to report on this problem in Launchpad since I have so many weird things happening I don't know where to start. This is by far the most troubling experience I've yet had in Linux.

---

### Post by parix on 2012-11-22
In the end, it's turned out that _I just didn't have a swap partition_ so that's why the shutdown got stuck at deactivating swap.:P

I used to have a swap in another HDD but I don't have it switched on anymore; besides I probably thought that there was no point in having a swap for Ubuntu because it usually doesn't use about 80% of the 8GB RAM I have installed; maybe just for hibernating.

I've made a new swap partition, this time in the same hard drive to avoid future problems (with **gparted**).
Then I've activated the swap:  **sudo swapon /dev/hdd6** so that I can shutdown properly again.
And I've replaced in **/etc/fstab** the UUID of the old swap,for hdd6's **UUID**, so that the change is persistent through future shutdowns.

You can get the UUID with the command : **blkid**
**fdisk -l** , **mount** , **gksudo gedit /etc/fstab**, more /proc/swaps, **sudo sysctl vm.swappiness=10** are other usefull commands for this task.

For more extensive reference:

[COLOR="Blue"][http://askubuntu.com/questions/103043/how-to-create-swap-partition-on-already-installed-ubuntu]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/103043/how-to-create-swap-partition-on-already-installed-ubuntu")
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq#What_is_swappiness_and_how_do_I_change_it.3F](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq#What_is_swappiness_and_how_do_I_change_it.3F)[/COLOR]

I think it may be easier to someone that knows well the shudown process, runlevels rc.d's, etc to just override the swap deactivation.

---

### Post by mtrento on 2012-12-08
Thanks Parix, i had the same swap problem after i cloned my hdd to a new ssd drive.

i still get "Unknown job: S35networking" but now it shuts down and reboot without hanging

---

