---
title: "9.04 printers problem !!!"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by skate4fun on 2009-04-28
Hi there, I used Ubuntu 8.10 for almost an year. After installing ubuntu 8.10, I installed HPLIP to use my HP LaserJet P1005 and everything worked fine. I have had no problems with the installation or with the printing process at all. But before 3 weeks it just stopped printing. And I have no idea why? First I decided that the problem is in HPLIP, so I uninstalled it and installed it again and again, but nothing changed. Then I uninstalled it and installed it through CUPS, but nothing changed again. So I decided that the problem is not in software, but hardware, so I bought a new printer, this time SAMSUNG Color Laser CLP 300 and installed it. And what shocked me the most I have the same problem. It is not printing. So now I am sure that the problem is somehow in Ubuntu. So I decided to wait a bit, for the new Ubuntu 9.04 release. I removed everything from my pc, and made a clean new install of the beta release of Ubuntu 9.04. And hoped that my problem will just disapear, but it didn't. Both printers won't print. When I start a new print job, everything seems fine, I see a message that the new job is sent, after that printed and at the end done. Look like everything is ok, but the problem is that no page come out of the printer. When I start the HPLIP aplication - on the status of the printer I see that there is no connection with the device, and of course I have checked all the cables, and they are properly pluged in. I really don't know what to do, and I have to print, because this printer is in my office, so I am in a pitty situation. Please HELP !!!
Thanks in advance! and have a nice day!

---

### Post by mousestalker on 2009-05-03
Try removing HPLIP. Unplug the printer from your computer. Reinstall the latest and greatest version of HPLIP. Then, when prompted replug your printer.

Let us know what happened.

---

### Post by skate4fun on 2009-05-03
Nothing changed! I removed the hplip (sudo apt-get remove hplip), while the printer was unpluged, than installed it again (sudo apt-get install hplip) and pluged the printer again but it couldn't print even a test page!

---

### Post by larini on 2009-05-21
I have the same problem with 9.04 and hp3600 printer.

I will try to get back to 8.04 version.

My epson printer never had problems.

---

### Post by skate4fun on 2009-05-27
Help !!!

---

