---
title: "9.10 Terminal -- ctrl+c abort command is not working"
date: 2009-12-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mah01 on 2009-12-23
After 9.10 Ubuntu installation, I found out that ctrl+c "abort" binding doesn't work in Terminal.
I.e. when I ping something, I cannot stop it with ctrl+c. So all I can do is close the Terminal and reopen another one.

I have seen some information on the web about this problem. But I have not seen any working solution for that.

Thanks,
Max

---

### Post by MooPi on 2009-12-23
what terminal are you using ?
Do you have a wireless keyboard ?

---

### Post by chuina on 2009-12-23
I use this procedure for "abort" unwanted program

Open  a terminal (if already opened then press Shift+Ctrl+T) type:

```
ps -A
```will list of many processes.
now you can stop the process by 

```
kill -kill <process number>
```for e.g: 
 ```
ps -A 
(out put omitted)

 3228 ?        00:00:01 gnome-terminal
 3229 ?        00:00:00 gnome-pty-helpe
 3230 pts/0    00:00:00 bash
 3273 pts/1    00:00:00 bash
 3291 pts/1    00:00:00 ping
 3292 pts/0    00:00:00 ps
```Now the kill command will abort the process 3291 which 
in this case is the ping process.
```
kill -kill 3291
```for more type in terminal and press Enter:
```
man kill
```

---

### Post by mah01 on 2009-12-26
**MooPi**, I use standard Ubuntu Terminal. Applications->Accessories->Terminal

**chuina**, you must be damn crazy to stop command like this. Will your Kung-Fu work in remote ssh shell?

---

### Post by chuina on 2009-12-26
> **chuina**, you must be damn crazy to stop command like this. Will your Kung-Fu work in remote ssh shell?you didn't tell that you are trying to ctrl+c/abort in ssh/remort login.

---

### Post by mah01 on 2009-12-28
> **chuina said:**
> you didn't tell that you are trying to ctrl+c/abort in ssh/remort login.
Yeah, I didn't. Anyway, I want to send "break" command by pressing ctrl+c.

---

### Post by yonish on 2010-03-29
Ctrl-Shift-C ? (I'm guessing your ctrl-c is mapped to "copy")

---

### Post by joham34 on 2010-11-04
hi, I had the same problem because I had assigned Ctrl-C to copy , long ago when I switched from windows (and then forgot it ). As soon I cacelled that ( terminal > menu >edit >  keyboard shortcuts ) ( or alternatively preferences > keyboard shortcuts)  , Ctrl-C worked again .

---

