---
title: "10.04 freezes on boot up"
date: 2010-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tomreid on 2010-11-09
Hi

been using 10.04 happily on my HP Pavilion laptop since it came out. But today it boots up, gets as far as the log onto the wifi network, I get the message that it has connected to the network, then the system freezes. 

The desktop is still visible, but the mouse and the keyboard don't respond, I just have to hit the power button.

Can anyone help?

cheers

---

### Post by moshaharoni on 2010-11-09
**** man, I got the same problem and just posted a request 20 min after you.  Ill never buy another HP laptop for sure !

---

### Post by tomreid on 2010-11-11
I'm not sure it's an HP problem. The system freezes at the same time every time it boots, which points more to a problem with the operating system. It it was, say, a hard dive issue, the freeze behaviour would me more random.

cheers

---

### Post by cry8wolf9 on 2010-11-11
this case sounds like the os, however hp does bring out horrible laptops. i use to have one and had it sent in the first time because the keyboard stopped working, the second time because the motherboard fried then a third time because the video card went. then it broke later after the 90day warranty expired(4 days after mind you!) because of the mother board again so i suggest to be careful lol

---

### Post by tomreid on 2010-11-12
It's a dual boot machine and have just booted it to Windows (using it to write this message) and ot works fine, so it's definately not a hardware issue, it's a software issue. Anyone?

---

