---
title: "9.04 Ubuntu Not Detecting CD/DVD Drive"
date: 2009-05-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ArcDarkWolf on 2009-05-17
Man, am I having a hard time with 9.04. Rather than bore you with the whole story behind this, I'll get straight to the point. I have a Matsushita CD/DVD drive installed on a Acer 5315 Aspire model laptop. I couldn't tell you the exact drive model off the top of my head, but if you need to know it, I'll find it for you.

Inserting any kind of disc, like a CD, DVD-Video, DVD-ROM, -R, -RW, so on, leaves it fruitless. Ubuntu just doesn't pick it up. The drive responds by making a sound, and the light flashes to indicate that something is going on, but after a few seconds it just dies down. I know the drive is in full working condition, for it works with my Vista and 7 partitions, but doesn't seem to be picked up by Ubuntu. A fix to this is really urgent, since I need to burn a Vista Recovery Disc pronto.

Any help or just a comment is really appreciated!

--ArcDarkWolf

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-05-17
Does Ubuntu recognize the hardware? A quick way to find out:
```
sudo lshw -C disk
```
Do you have an entry for it in /etc/fstab ? Mine looks like this:
```
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
```

Use dmesg to look for info about your CD drive. If dmesg output is too large, use dmesg | grep CD (look for stuff like this):
```
[    3.072022] ata4: SATA link up 1.5 Gbps (SStatus 113 SControl 300)
[    3.072896] ata4.00: ATAPI: TSSTcorp CDDVDW SH-S203B, SB00, max UDMA/100, ATAPI AN
[    3.074055] ata4.00: configured for UDMA/100
...
[    3.109036] scsi 3:0:0:0: CD-ROM            TSSTcorp CDDVDW SH-S203B  SB00 PQ: 0 ANSI: 5
[    3.112811] sr0: scsi3-mmc drive: 48x/48x writer dvd-ram cd/rw xa/form2 cdda tray
[    3.112814] Uniform CD-ROM driver Revision: 3.20
[    3.112889] sr 3:0:0:0: Attached scsi CD-ROM sr0
[    3.112923] sr 3:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg1 type 5
```
Insert a CD and use dmesg again. Are there any messages at the end about the CD?

---

### Post by ArcDarkWolf on 2009-05-18
Strange; well, after reinstalling Ubuntu, because I... sorta broke my PC by removing the partion without fixing the Grub boot loader, CDs and DVDs are working now. It's so weird. Anyway, thanks for that code line, I'll have to remember it if I run into any troubles again. I'm real Ubuntu novice.

Thanks! :D

---

