---
title: ".desktop file not shown in dash"
date: 2015-02-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bokiscout on 2015-02-07
Hi there,

Recently I made two scripts, one that will close some apps, the other will reopen previously closed apps. Here are thee bash scripts:
```
#!/bin/bashkillall -9 diodon
killall -9 thunderbird
killall -9 my-weather-indicator
killall -9 alarm-clock-applet
killall -9 caffeine-indicator
killall -9 psensor
killall -9 CopyAgent
```
and

```
#!/bin/bashdiodon &
thunderbird &
/opt/extras.ubuntu.com/my-weather-indicator/bin/my-weather-indicator &
alarm-clock-applet --hidden &
caffeine-indicator &
psensor &
/opt/copy-client/CopyAgent &
```

When I execute them in terminal by their absolute pat they work as I desire. Here is what I type in gnome-terminal:
```
Documents/Copy/Linux/Ubuntu/\[script\]_kill_and_start_apps/killapps.sh
```

and

```
Documents/Copy/Linux/Ubuntu/\[script\]_kill_and_start_apps/startapps.sh
```


So far so good. But then I want to add them in dash for easy access. To do so, i created two .desktop items in "/home/borche/.local/share/applications" with following content:
```
[Desktop Entry]Version= 1.0
Name=Game Mode Off
Comment=This is my comment
Exec=Documents/Copy/Linux/Ubuntu/\[script\]_kill_and_start_apps/startapps.sh
Icon=utilities-terminal
Terminal=false
Hidden=false
Type=Application
Categories=Utility;
Name[en_US]=GameModeOff
```

and

```
[Desktop Entry]Version= 1.0
Name=Game Mode On
Comment=This is my comment
Exec=Documents/Copy/Linux/Ubuntu/\[script\]_kill_and_start_apps/killpps.sh
Icon=utilities-terminal
Terminal=false
Hidden=false
Type=Application
Categories=Utility;
Name[en_US]=GameModeOn
```

- When I tried to double click from nautilus i got an error:
```
Untrusted application launcher
The application launcher “GameModeOff.desktop” has not been marked as trusted. If you do not know the source of this file, launching it may be unsafe.
```

- But if I made the .desktop files executable they work as desired, no errors, but I cant't find them by searching the dash.


I tried to validate both .desktop files for any kind of irregularity by typing:
```
desktop-file-validate .local/share/applications/*.desktop
```
and no errors, so I guess they are good.


Now I'm reading other similar threads but I can't find the right solution. Both .desktop files appear to work as desired if I access them via nautilus or gnome-terminal but they can't be found in dash by typing their names.


Thank you.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-02-08
Does it persist if you logout and back in again?

Also I think you need to actually run the validate command against the real file name instead of wholesale *.

---

### Post by bokiscout on 2015-02-08
- Yes, I log out and log back in but still no success then
- I pinned them to left pane, log out and log back in but still no success then
- I unpin from left pane, log out and log back in but still no success.

Also I tried with their original name of the .desktop files and no errors if those are market as executable.

As a temporary fix I put shortcuts on my desktop but I would like not to have them there, instead access them from dash like any other .desktop file.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-02-08
As test, to see if there is a problem with the dash's access to your home folder's applications folder, perhaps try a quick copy of one of the files into the system applications folder
```
sudo cp ~/.local/share/applications/name.desktop /usr/share/applications/
```
(change name.desktop to the name of the file)
then see if it shows in the dash.

If it works then we can assume that something's not right about your home folder's applications folder.
If it does not work then we can assume something's not right about your desktop file.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-02-08
Your posted .desktops are wrong on the first line but that's likely a posting error?
([Desktop Entry]Version= 1.0 , the Version= 1.0 has to be on it's own line

Try using full path on the Exec=line, assuming username of borche
```
Exec=/home/borche/Documents/Copy/Linux/Ubuntu/\[script\]_kill_and_start_apps/startapps.sh
```
Note that the Dash also searches the Comment= line so a search of This should also show your app. (or be more descriptive, unique on the comment..

(- or move your scripts into a bin folder in $PATH then all you need is scriptname on the Exec= line The scripts likely don't need the .sh ext. either

A log out/in is usually required after such changes

---

### Post by bokiscout on 2015-02-08
Fixed.

- I put both .sh scripts in "/bin/" directory then
- I add "/bin" directory to "Exec = ...." parameter

It is working straight without need to logout and login.


Thank you for all the suggestions.

---

