---
title: "Ubuntu is slow and choppy, laggy, unresponsive."
date: 2009-11-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AgentWiggles on 2009-11-19
Ever since the update, my computer has just not been working well. Gnome Do is broken (it won't recognize the key combination to open it) and AWN won't let me change the preferences.

Mostly, more than complaining about specific problems, I'm worried about what's in the thread title, and I kind of realized that I have no idea where to begin to try to get this thing running correctly. If you guys could just offer a little guidance, I'd really appreciate. it.

---

### Post by issih on 2009-11-19
Can't really say without a fair bit more info, but I wonder if you are having the same issue as here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1331652](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1331652)

try running:

```
uname -r
```

in a terminal to determine the version of the kernel that you are running..if the version number that reports starts with something other than "2.6.31" then you probably are running the wrong kernel.

hope that helps

---

### Post by AgentWiggles on 2009-11-19
Nope, it's 2.6.31-14-generic. 

I can give you any information you would need, I just don't know what that info would be. So let me know.

---

### Post by AgentWiggles on 2009-11-20
I'm going to bump this up since the system is practically unusable until the problem is fixed.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-11-20
Well, there must be a program that is using CPU or I/O, causing this slowness to happen. What does the 'top' command tell you is using the CPU? Try installing the "iotop" package and running that to see whether something is hammering your disk.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-20
It would also help if you posted your system specs, especially videocard, and if applicable, what videodrivers you are using.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-20
Open a terminal window (Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal)

Enter ```
top
```

It'll update every 3 seconds. What's the top CPU hog? (Ctrl+C stops it)

Install iotop ```
sudo apt-get install iotop
```

Enter ```
iotop
```

It'll update every 3 seconds. What's the top I/O hog? (Ctrl+C stops it)


Post any output that you're suspicious of or curious about. We'll help you sort this out.

---

### Post by AgentWiggles on 2009-11-20
Here's the top few for top

```
15674 eric      20   0  323m  91m  30m S 28.6  4.0  10:51.73 firefox            
 
1126 root      20   0  239m  65m  14m S  1.7  2.9 341:52.31 Xorg               

20689 eric      20   0 58132  22m  15m S  1.0  1.0  34:55.04 mobloquer          
 
2086 eric      20   0 30908  20m 5688 S  0.3  0.9   6:20.31 compiz.real        

16263 eric      20   0  2464 1172  884 R  0.3  0.1   0:00.13 top                
    
1 root      20   0  2528 1368 1064 S  0.0  0.1   0:01.17 init 
```          

Here's the top few for iotop

 346 be/3 root        0.00 B/s   46.61 K/s  0.00 %  0.00 % [kjournald]
1969 be/4 eric        0.00 B/s    7.17 K/s  0.00 %  0.00 % gconfd-2

firefox and cli-user-gnome also show up but they flash so fast i haven't been able to grab them.

A couple of notes about the computer:

It's primarily a web-browsing machine, and also used frequently for playing music and watching videos. 

It's what I refer to as a "frankenbox" - a computer pieced together from parts of a bunch of other computers - in this case, computers I rescued from a trash pile at my school.

Attached is a full report from hardinfo, which probably contains every system spec you could possibly need to know, and many many more. 

Thanks for all the help!

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-20
Direct rendering is disabled for your ATI 7000.
Can you post the output (if any) of
```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
?

---

### Post by AgentWiggles on 2009-11-20
eric@eric-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-21
Try this:

```

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "ati"
        Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"

EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection 


Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by AgentWiggles on 2009-11-23
That seems to have helped, at least with the lag issues. Do you guys think we can resolve the problems with AWN and Gnome Do or would those be better directed to forums for those individual programs?

---

