---
title: "11.10 wifi authentication key"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by old_dog on 2011-10-16
Just updated to 11.10 now every time I boot up I have to enter my "key" for Authentication required by wireless network"
In 11.04 having entered it it was obviously stored somewhere--- how can I set this up again it happened by default in 11.04. 
It is a bit of a pain as it is umpteen random numbers and letters, failing being able to store it, how can I change it to something more user friendly?

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-10-16
passwords are stored in the keyring, either open passwords an encrypted keys tool to delete the existing profile then create new one or go to /home/'user'/.gnome2/keyrings delete the configuration files then start afresh storing passwords.
and if you don't even want to use a keyring password use a blank password instead for keyring, just type only the wireless password.

---

### Post by old_dog on 2011-10-17
I have just got round to catching up with your post thanks for taking time to reply. However I beg your indulgence as I seem to have a problem.
There is no .gnome2/keyrings in my /home/"user" directory. I do have a keyrings directory in /usr/share/ in here are
/usr/share/keyrings/medibuntu-keyring.gpg
/usr/share/keyrings/ubuntu-archive-keyring.gpg
/usr/share/keyrings/ubuntu-archive-removed-keys.gpg
/usr/share/keyrings/ubuntu-extras-keyring.gpg
/usr/share/keyrings/ubuntu-extras-keyring-removed-keys.gpg
/usr/share/keyrings/ubuntu-master-keyring.gpg

Give me a clue ??????
what next

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-10-17
> There is no .gnome2/keyrings in my /home/"user" directory
on the file browser go to menu bar » view » show hidden files.

---

