---
title: "9.04 stopped booting normally"
date: 2009-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by extendedping on 2009-06-16
giving messages 

chown: invalid group root: 

then it goes through a bunch of groups. I an only in my second week with ubuntu but here is what I tried...all options in the recovery mode. none worked. so finally I did boot to command line and looked at the /etc/group file. it only has 2 lines:

root:x:0:
nogroup:x:65534

well I am assuming that is the issue. it also says after 20 minutes that gdm is invalid. so I really have no idea what is going on here, I for certain did not erase that /etc/groups file, it there are supposed to be more entries in it. hmm please help, I was really loving not having windows running. btw the runlevel command says I am at N 2. And for certain before I turned off the computer last night I did not install anything new or erase anything. the only thing was that an upgrade of packages failed saying I was missing a dependency but I saw that all the time in fedora and it was usually corrected in a repo a day to 2 later...thanks. help

---

### Post by extendedping on 2009-06-16
also if this help...since I have only had ubuntu up for a few days...I have never dropped to a shell before..in fact I have never gone further then the desktop. however I have done everything as "root" (I enabled root login). but again I never edited anything. crap I want ubuntu back :(

finally...just checked in /etc/passwd and many of the lines seem to end it /bin/false
don't know that that means but I assume it is not good?????

---

### Post by extendedping on 2009-06-16
reinstalling, if this happens again I guess I will drop ubuntu. :(

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-06-16
> **extendedping said:**
> reinstalling, if this happens again I guess I will drop ubuntu. :(

Relax. If others can make it work, so can you.
Rule 1: [COLOR="Red"]**_Never_**[/COLOR] work as root. During install you make an account, for example with your first name, and you type a password. This is your password.
Since you are the first user on this computer (using the first user-account which is made) your user-account has special privileges. When you need to do things which require root-access you are asked for your password. After typing that, you are "root". Not exactly, but you can perform root tasks for the moment.
When you try this it really should work. So re-install and do what I wrote here.

---

