---
title: "14.04 User Account creation problem"
date: 2014-06-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jsprdbry on 2014-06-09
It's the first time I've needed to create an account since upgrading to 14.04 and once I've input the details I get the following error

'Failed to add account

running '/usr/sbin/adduser' failed: Child process exited with code 1'

What do i need to do to fix it please?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-09
Welcome to the forums.

Please post the exact command used here.

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2014-06-09
Maybe you are using capitals?, username have to be in small letters

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-09
> **Ringi said:**
> Maybe you are using capitals?, username have to be in small letters

I've seen Windows-centric users trying to type in their full-name as the login - "John Smith" - because that is what their Windows Domain controller uses.  No spaces in userids.  There is probably a length limit too - don't know what it is, but I recall not having my last name work in some systems, so the last few characters were left off the userids.  That was years ago, so I don't know if that limit still exists.

Google found this: [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6949667/what-are-the-real-rules-for-linux-usernames-on-centos-6-and-rhel-6](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6949667/what-are-the-real-rules-for-linux-usernames-on-centos-6-and-rhel-6)

But I suspect the root issue was something like forgetting to use sudo. ;)  We all do stuff like that from time-to-time .... er ... or daily. ;)

---

### Post by jsprdbry on 2014-06-10
I was using capitals in the user name.

Thanks folks.

---

### Post by Lyndon_Kern on 2014-07-20
I am also having this problem the username no caps, full name with caps.  Same error:  running "'/usr/sbin/adduser' failed: Child process exited with code 1".  I'm very new to ubuntu and linux.  Thanks.

---

