---
title: ".deb or .rpm"
date: 2007-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by firstc624 on 2007-10-14
I am just curious as to what is "better"  or more up to date.  have been looking at differ distros and was wondering Y all the differences between them.\

ie.  ubuntu uses .deb.    pcoslinux uses .rpm

---

### Post by lemmy999 on 2007-10-14
There is no better AFAIK. Ubuntu is debian based and uses deb binary packages. Other distros use Red hat package manager (rpms)

---

### Post by arkara on 2007-10-14
deb is for debian based distributions and rpms are for red hat based distibutions..
debian has more packages available well this does not mean you cant find much software to rpm based distributions..

---

### Post by mpgarate on 2007-10-14
yeah.. i prefer .deb and aptitude, but its not necessarily better, im just used to it

---

### Post by runemaste644 on 2007-10-14
I have to use Alien to convert RPMS to Debs to update OpenOffice.org because the debs are... well... 








...stubborn.

---

### Post by firstc624 on 2007-10-14
suppose i am supprised is all.  that for example the ati driver, fglrx, is in ubuntu 8.37 something where as in other distro they are at 8.39

just wonder y it takes longer in a deb based distro to get things like this to more current versions

---

### Post by mali2297 on 2007-10-14
> **firstc624 said:**
> suppose i am supprised is all.  that for example the ati driver, fglrx, is in ubuntu 8.37 something where as in other distro they are at 8.39

just wonder y it takes longer in a deb based distro to get things like this to more current versions

I would say that has more to do with the release cycle of the distro than the package format. The packages in Feisty's repos haven't been updated since the release in April (except for security updates). The packages in Gutsy will be up to date.

---

### Post by -grubby on 2007-10-14
well apt-get installs all dependencies by default

---

### Post by firstc624 on 2007-10-14
> **mali2297 said:**
> I would say that has more to do with the release cycle of the distro than the package format. The packages in Feisty's repos haven't been updated since the release in April (except for security updates). The packages in Gutsy will be up to date.

Actually i have been rnning gutsy since tribe 4 so i have the most up current the devs have released to date and they are the following for ati binary package, fglrx, 8.37.6

mind you i am glad that the devs are doing all the work they have done for the distro and all just weird that a rpm based distro would be up to 8.39 something

---

### Post by mali2297 on 2007-10-15
> **firstc624 said:**
> Actually i have been rnning gutsy since tribe 4 so i have the most up current the devs have released to date and they are the following for ati binary package, fglrx, 8.37.6

mind you i am glad that the devs are doing all the work they have done for the distro and all just weird that a rpm based distro would be up to 8.39 something

OK, you're right. I don't know why the developers haven't chosen a newer version, but I guess they have their reasons. Still, it hasn't anything to do with the package format. [Fgrx 8.40.4]("http://packages.debian.org/lenny/fglrx-driver") is available for Debian Lenny and Sid.

---

### Post by FredB on 2007-10-15
I used both and I prefer debs from far. For your info, I am using only linux since end of 2004...

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-15
> **mali2297 said:**
> OK, you're right. I don't know why the developers haven't chosen a newer version, but I guess they have their reasons. Still, it hasn't anything to do with the package format. [Fgrx 8.40.4]("http://packages.debian.org/lenny/fglrx-driver") is available for Debian Lenny and Sid.

It's the question about stability versus cutting edge. I think Ubuntu have a fine balance between the two.

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2007-10-15
.deb, ive tried a lot of distros, and .rpm package management is just slow, yum/yast2/urpmi are all really slow and temperamental, rpm itself isnt much different from dpkg, but its the dependancy management tools for rpm that suck imo

---

