---
title: "Laptop monitor not detected. But external monitors work when docked"
date: 2014-07-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by buntu_hugenewbie11 on 2014-07-18
I have my laptop docked at work (Dell E6510 Nvidia card) and have my external monitors work fine.
But if I restart my laptop without an external monitor then my laptop monitor remains disabled.
How can I change this?
The xorg is configured using nvidia-settings.
I am running 64 bit Kubuntu 12.04.
Below is my xorg file which does not have any LVDS display.
How should I change this so that my laptop monitor turns on if no externals are detected?

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 331.20  (buildd@allspice)  Wed Dec 18 09:07:35 UTC 2013

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 331.20  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-05)  Wed Oct 30 18:20:5:3 PDT 2013

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "NVS 3100M"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Stereo" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
Option "metamodes" "DFP-3: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Option         "SLI" "Off"
    Option         "MultiGPU" "Off"
    Option         "BaseMosaic" "off"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-07-19
When you start the computer, if you get into GRUB before it boots Kubuntu (if it doesn't show Grub while booting, hold SHIFT to have it appear when booting (e.g. after pressing power button hold SHIFT)); press e on the first option, go to the end where it says quiet and put in nomodeset.

If you get NO display at all even when turning on the computer, check the BIOS for dock settings for the video.

---

### Post by buntu_hugenewbie11 on 2014-07-26
I will try it.
But I do get grub and also the xserver login screen.
It is only after logining in do I lose the screen.
And there is no issue with the windows side of things.
I will let you know.
Thanks.

---

### Post by buntu_hugenewbie11 on 2014-07-26
I will try it.
But I do get grub and also the xserver login screen.
It is only after logining in do I lose the screen.
And there is no issue with the windows side of things.
I will let you know.
Thanks.

---

### Post by buntu_hugenewbie11 on 2014-08-01
So that did not help.
I get to the same splash screen and login via  gui type login screen and then it goes blank.
How can I have my xorg.conf include the laptop monitor?

---

