---
title: "8.10 or 8.04 LTS"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nider on 2008-11-02
Hi, i have a new computer and I am going to install Ubuntu, I had Ubuntu in my previous one, but I use to have the 7.10 version. i check in the main website a now there a to version, the 8.10 and 8.04 LTS. My question are... which are the different between them and which of this version is more like the 7.10 (^^U I assumed that the answer is the 8.10 but anyway) thanks.

---

### Post by Motomo on 2008-11-02
If it was me at this time I would load 8.04LTS due to the newness of 8.10. Every release has issues when it first comes out that will have to be addressed. Once it has matured for a few months then I would consider making the switch. The only thing that would change this in my mind is 8.10 had some feature that you could not live without that was not available in 8.04

---

### Post by iris-n on 2008-11-02
A release being LTS just means that Canonical promises a longer support for it, it's not essentially better just because of the name. That matters a lot for servers, but since you use a desktop, you're better off with 8.10, as there are always bugfixes, newer software and more hardware support. I'm using it, and haven't noticed any instability.

---

### Post by Nider on 2008-11-02
Thanks guys... I think I will go with the 8.10. 

But I forgot that I have another question. Should I install it from booting the Cd or from Win?

---

### Post by iris-n on 2008-11-02
I take it you mean installing it with Wubi.

Well, if you want to actually use the system, definitely install with the cd, you get increased performance, stability and security. Wubi is just for tasting it.

And, always be cautious. Download the Live CD, and boot from it before installing to be sure that all your hardware is supported and everything works as it should.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-11-02
> **Nider said:**
> Hi, i have a new computer and I am going to install Ubuntu, I had Ubuntu in my previous one, but I use to have the 7.10 version. i check in the main website a now there a to version, the 8.10 and 8.04 LTS. My question are... which are the different between them and which of this version is more like the 7.10 (^^U I assumed that the answer is the 8.10 but anyway) thanks.

As of right now I'd say 8.04 is a bit more stable than 8.10.

---

