---
title: "Cannot change resolution or refresh"
date: 2005-03-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by montgomj on 2005-03-30
Upgrade from Warty to Hoary yesterday.  Logging into Ubuntu is ok but hard to see, and once in, I only get 640x480 at 60 Hz.  This is an Intel i810 integrated graphics device with shared memory with a Gateway EV730 monitor.  Centering and so forth on the monitor is fine, but I cannot change resolution or refresh.  I tried to reconfigure xserver-xorg several times, but no change.  Any help would be appreciated!

  xorg.config is as follows

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	64000
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Gateway EV730"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Gateway EV730"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection




Thanks for any help you might be able to shed on this.  I want to use Hoary if I can.

montgomj

---

### Post by bored2k on 2005-03-30
Test 1:
 sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg [this has always worked for me so its the first thing I advice people to do]

---

### Post by montgomj on 2005-03-30
Thanks, I did do that several times, the results all the same.  No change.

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver.xorg

it worked and allowed my to respond to all the choices and did recognize my integrated video and the monitor.  Windows shows the memory of the card to be 64Mb.

Maybe some of the auto loaded modules?

Thanks

still working on this

montgomj

---

### Post by montgomj on 2005-03-30
Updated the distribution via apt-get and

can get the resolution 1024 x 728 at 85Hz

Not sure what got fixed for me, but it works.

The xorg system seems to look better on my monitor, imo

Thanks for all who read and who responded.  This is a great distribution and it works well for me.  I probably should not have upgraded so quickly but...........

montgomj

---

### Post by Diego F. on 2005-04-01
What did you upgrade? I have the same problem. Only 640x480

---

### Post by montgomj on 2005-04-02
Hi Diego:

I should have been clearer, but what I did to originally upgrade was change my repositories sources to read hoary rather than warty.  When I first did that, and waited a bunch, I finally got back to a new Ubuntu

but with a 640 x 480 screen at 60 Hz.  Tried to change the resolution, and no choices.

Then did the dpkg-reconfigure of the X server package, several times, no real change.

Then when I did a normal apt-get upgrade, it upgraded the xorg packages, and boom

I was back in business.

I have now actually gone and burned a cd of the rc for Hoary and did a full new install, after saving some of my data, and things worked much better.  But still have not got a good way to share data with other Windows boxes in my network, which is all windows.  I am the only Linux box in a wilderness, and networking has not been easy.

Also, still some roughness on the CD burning end of things........

But all in all, things are doing well.

If you still have trouble, could it be that you have an ATI or Nvidia video card and that the configuration is still rough going?  Mine was a stupid integrated video device.

Best

montgomj

---

### Post by elwis on 2005-04-02
[QUOTE=bored2k]Test 1:
 sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg [this has always worked for me so its the first thing I advice people to do][/QUOTE]

you saved my evening, my marriage and my life!

Thanx

---

### Post by DrecoZA on 2005-04-05
I installed Warty from CD and everything was working perfectly, I upgraded to Hoary and now I can not get anything above 640x480, I have repeatedly tried sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, even with different options but still nothing.

I did a clean install back to Warty where things are peachy and then upgraded to Hoary again with the same result, it is a HP Compaq machine with an Intel graphics card.

---

### Post by rjstevens3 on 2005-04-05
i am using an lcd with vga inputs from V7 that seemed to misrepresent its settings with the nvidia driver. the "nvidia" driver has an option to ignore what the monitor returns. This option can be placed in "device" or "screen" and should look like:

Option     "IgnoreEDID"

this and other nvidia settings can be found at nvidia.com

RJ

---

### Post by baza41 on 2005-04-05
[QUOTE=DrecoZA]I installed Warty from CD and everything was working perfectly, I upgraded to Hoary and now I can not get anything above 640x480, I have repeatedly tried sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, even with different options but still nothing.

I did a clean install back to Warty where things are peachy and then upgraded to Hoary again with the same result, it is a HP Compaq machine with an Intel graphics card.[/QUOTE]
 It's the same with me. if I do  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg  it gives me 640X480 at 60hrz. If I edit the xorg.config file I can get 1280X1024 but only if I startx from console then hit F7??? I have mentioned this problem and posted a bug report. There seems a real problem with the i810 chip and Hoary. IMHO if it goes out without this being fixed it won't look good.

---

### Post by tanari on 2005-04-05
I have similar problem in ubuntu live cd preview. I can choose all resolutions from 640x480 to 1920x1600, and widescreen resolutions too, but can't setup more than 85 Hz :(.

---

### Post by DrecoZA on 2005-04-06
After spending two days on this problem, I have gone back to Windows XP on this machine as I am certain this is a issue with the Intel graphics card and Ubuntu.

Good luck.... :-(

---

### Post by mstrymn on 2005-04-14
Hey, found a temporary fix, it should work but don't blame me if your monitor explodes.....

1- Open root terminal and type "sudo gedit"

2- Find xorg.conf file in /ect/x11, open and find (monitor model may vary):
------------------------------------------------------------------
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL P780"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection
-------------------------------------------------------------------

3- add this (you can put the correct numbers for your monitor, these numbers are from a generic monitor and should work):
-------------------------------------------------------------------
	HorizSync   31.5 - 150.0
	VertRefresh 40-75
-------------------------------------------------------------------

          so it looks like this:
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL P780"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync   31.5 - 150.0
	VertRefresh 40-75
EndSection
-------------------------------------------------------------------

4-  Save and reboot.  You should now have more options in System->Preferences->Screen Resolutions

5-  *Hopefully* ENJOY!

---

