---
title: "**** .ICEauthority file problem!"
date: 2010-03-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Berable on 2010-03-28
After changed my user password with the command 

sudo passwd myuser 

I stay with this big problem 

Could not update ICE Authority file /home/my/.ICEauthority

There are a problem with a configuration server ... 
(/usr/lib/libconf2-4/gconf-sanity-check-2 exits with status 256)

The Nautilus cound't create those directories requireds:
/home/myuser/Desktop, /home/myuser.nautilus

I read some posts about this error but in my case the diference 
is that my home directory is encrypted (Karmic Koala, I choose for this feature in the instalation).

And commands like ls -l .ICEauthority  because this file don't exist 

Do ls command in my home result this:

Access-Your-Private-Data.desktop 
README.txt
Ubuntu One

Only these files, I'm afraid with the possibility of don't  access never more my files

This kind of Bug is so serious

Now a want to work normally again with my ubuntu and recovery my files!

Can anyone helpe me with a good and effective answer or solution?


Thank's

---

### Post by Berable on 2010-03-28
First I thank's for users help!

For solve this problem, first in the login screen press CTRL + ALT + F1
for perform login in tty terminal. 

Then, type login information and  after type this command: 

sudo chmod 755 /home/youruser

reboot your system

Now follow the instruction of this thread (only if you home was encrypted, pay attention) :

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1426960&highlight=passphrase](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1426960&highlight=passphrase)

And all will works fine again!

---

### Post by Flos Headford on 2010-04-08
This worked for me:
Use a Ubuntu Live CD to boot up, and choose a command-line (shell) option.
With this, set your $HOME directory (/home/username) permissions to something appropriate (I used 755) and make sure all directories can be listed with the "ls" command. Then remove nautilus with ```
sudo apt-get remove nautilus
``` and delete the .ICEauthority entry in $HOME, and possibly in /var/lib/gdm. Then reboot with ```
sudo shutdown -r now
``` When you choose the same option on boot-up, from the command line you can use ```
sudo apt-get install nautilus
sudo shutdown -r now
``` and retrieve the CD a bit smartish. I do hope you get a clean straight boot and login, as I did!
With thanks to all who helped me,
Phil

---

