---
title: "Evolution mail filter not working correctly"
date: 2009-07-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AFarris01 on 2009-07-23
I'm subscribed to a few mailing lists, including ubuntu-users, and after some time, the large amount of mail generated by the list tends to clutter my inbox.

As such, I*tried to set up a filter that would automatically delete messages from the mailing list older than 1 week...but instead it just deletes every message from that mailing list.  Here's my filter setup:

```

**Find items:***[If all conditions are met]

**Find items that meet the following conditions:**
*Condition* - [Mailing List] [is] "ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com"
*Condition* - [Status] [is not] [Important]
*Condition* - [Status] [is] [Read]
*Condition* - [Date Received] [is after] [1 week ago]

**Then:**
*Delete*

```

If I flag the message as important, or as unread, then it won't delete it, and the filter doesn't delete anything when manually applied to other lists, or regular emails.  However, if I select any email from the 'ubuntu-users' list, and filter manually, then it deletes, no matter how old it is.

For now, i've temporarily replaced the 'delete' command with the 'Run program' option, and I*tell it to run a quick little script, so I*know how the filter would have behaved (and so i don't accidentally delete something important during experimenting):
```

# /bin/bash
zenity --info --text="Filter would have deleted the currently selected message"

```

Am I setting up the filter wrong, is this a bug, or what?

thanks in advance!

---

### Post by AFarris01 on 2009-08-17
I discovered the issue, and have fixed it. Here's the issue: 

I origionaly had my filter set up as:
```

**Find items:***[If all conditions are met]

**Find items that meet the following conditions:**
*Condition* - [Mailing List] [is] "ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com"
*Condition* - [Status] [is not] [Important]
*Condition* - [Status] [is] [Read]
*Condition* - [Date Received] [is after] [1 week ago]

**Then:**
*Delete*

```

The problem was the last rule. The wording and it's interpretation is a bit counterintuitive to me. I*interpreted my above setting as "If this message was recieved more than 1 week ago", whereas the program interprets it as "if this message was received sooner than 1 week ago"

I changed my filter to read:
```

**Find items:***[If all conditions are met]

**Find items that meet the following conditions:**
*Condition* - [Mailing List] [is] "ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com"
*Condition* - [Status] [is not] [Important]
*Condition* - [Status] [is] [Read]
*Condition* - [Date Received] [is before] [1 week ago]

**Then:**
*Delete*

```

And the filter now works properly.

---

### Post by Warprunner on 2010-10-02
OK, to help others who may have this problem, I finally found a how to do this. Surprisingly enough, it wasn't a bug at all: you have to explicitly enable message filtering in another separate check box!
[LIST=1]
[*]Hit Shift+Ctrl+S for preferences
[*]Mark the mail account you wish to enable message filtering for under "Mail Accounts" and click "Edit"
[*]Choose the "Receiving Options" tab
[*]Check the box "Apply filters to new messages in INBOX on this server"
[/LIST]
Check the box "Check new messages for Junk contents"
Done. 
I must admit I found this after hours of searching. It worked for me hope it does for you too!!

---

### Post by apochry on 2012-01-11
> **Warprunner said:**
> OK, to help others who may have this problem, I finally found a how to do this. Surprisingly enough, it wasn't a bug at all: you have to explicitly enable message filtering in another separate check box!
[LIST=1]
[*]Hit Shift+Ctrl+S for preferences
[*]Mark the mail account you wish to enable message filtering for under "Mail Accounts" and click "Edit"
[*]Choose the "Receiving Options" tab
[*]Check the box "Apply filters to new messages in INBOX on this server"
[/LIST]
Check the box "Check new messages for Junk contents"
Done. 
I must admit I found this after hours of searching. It worked for me hope it does for you too!!

Thank you! You are the man!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-01-11
Closed, necromancy.

---

