---
title: "&quot;update-grub&quot; command question"
date: 2021-04-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2021-04-11
The menu list of available Linux kernels is automatically generated by running update-grub (from ubuntu wiki).
Do this mean that if I clone my OS to a new partition "update-grub" will add it to me boot menu? If so, is that all that is needed to have an operational dual boot system?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2021-04-11
You will still only have one bootable system.
You cannot have duplicate UUIDs mounted at same time. If actually mounted, it may use one partition, one time & next the next time, totally getting them out of sync.

Just do a new install & copy whatever you want from one system to another. I have many installs but have most data in a shared data partition which I mount in all of them. So when I boot another install to test it, it has the same data. I may not copy /home, if experimenting with different settings.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-04-12
Leaving the issue of duplicate partition UUIDs aside for the moment - update-grub is a shell script that can be found at /usr/sbin/update-grub. The script executes grub-mkconfig. Which is also found at /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig. This shell script in turn calls other grub programs that scan all partitions on all drives for operating systems and generates a file called grub.cfg. Which is placed in /boot/grub. It is grub.cfg that is used to generate the Grub boot menu.

Just so we are a little bit clearer in our understanding of what is going on. 

Regards

---

