---
title: "11.04"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by khaj_vah on 2011-04-30
Hello everyone i am a new user of ubuntu 10.10 and recently was asked to upgrade it to 11.04. well i like the unity and the design of it but i am afraid that 11.04 has some problems with drivers. Well i want your advice should i switch to that or  should i wait a bit for  its updates ( i once switched from XP to vista and i was very disappointed, thats why i am afraid ) 



(sorry for my english)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-04-30
I suggest that you wait a few weeks. So many are upgrading at this time that downloads are very slow. By waiting you give the distributors time to make adjustments and fix things. Get to know 10.10 before you try 11.04 and be prepared to learn new things when you do upgrade.

Remember, the Ubuntu people are doing this differently from Microsoft and also the other distributors of Linux operating systems. Instead of waiting years for a new version of the operating system, with Ubuntu we get an upgrade every six months. This pushes progress but it also means that there are not always big changes. It just so happens that ther is a big change between 10.10 and 11.04.

Regards.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-04-30
I also suggest you wait. However, in my opinion, the period should be at least 2 months before upgrading.

Meantime, do some reading:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyNarwhal/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyNarwhal/ReleaseNotes)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopExperienceTeam/UnityHardwareRequirements](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopExperienceTeam/UnityHardwareRequirements)

Most important of all, backup data before any major change to the system.

---

### Post by khaj_vah on 2011-04-30
thank you for advice i will wait a bit

---

