---
title: "14.04 Black Screen After Suspend"
date: 2014-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by s25w89 on 2014-04-26
I've seen this issue reported but have not seen a solution. I did a fresh install of 14.04 this morning and everything is working great. The only problem I'm having is when I close the lid on my laptop and open it back up later I just get a black screen. I hear the hardware working but the screen is completely black and the keyboard is unresponsive, other than the power button. I'm forced to do a hard shutdown by holding down the power button.

Does anyone know if anything is being done about this problem or if there area any ways around it (changing settings, installing anything, etc)? I leave my laptop on for long periods of time and it would be a huge pain to have to shut it down completely every time I'm finished using it for a while. 

Thanks

---

### Post by keithb on 2014-04-26
I am also experiencing this problem on Xubuntu 14.04. It is a fresh install on a Lenovo G570 laptop. I have to turn it off and turn it back on everytime I use it. It's not the end of the world but it would be nice if suspend would work. Any help would be very much appreciated. Thanks

---

### Post by Przedzmirski on 2014-04-28
Yep, same here. Never in the first suspension, but always after some trials. Black screen, hardware on and no responses from keyboard. I searched for the suspension logs cause there is some interesting information,but I dont know how to do it yet, and neither read fast enough the messages before the laptop awake. :P

p.s.: Ubuntu 14.04, fresh install.


Dell inspiron N4110

---

### Post by s25w89 on 2014-05-22
Does anybody know if this is getting addressed? It would be really helpful to be able to let my laptop sleep rather than have it run for days on end without rest. 

I'd rather not run the thing into the ground if I can help it

---

### Post by arshb on 2014-05-22
Same thing was happening for my XPS 13. The fix was to turn off Intel smart connect in the bios. Not sure why that worked but I'm not complaining.

---

### Post by bren4 on 2014-06-19
Just thought I'd add that I'm experiencing the same thing with my _Desktop_ PC. I put it on suspend to head out or go to sleep and when I try to wake it up it's just a black screen.

*behaviour started upon upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04
*I cannot use ctrl+alt+F[1-6] to go to the alternate bash screens. The screen is just completely blank.
*From the totally blank screen, I can enter my password, and then I will hear the "Bongo drum" sound of Ubuntu logging in. Hence, it seems that the system is on and running somehow, it's just the display that isn't showing up.
*My system NVIDIA.

I don't know if that helps to diagnose the problem.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2014-06-19
> **bren4 said:**
> Just thought I'd add that I'm experiencing the same thing with my _Desktop_ PC. I put it on suspend to head out or go to sleep and when I try to wake it up it's just a black screen.

*behaviour started upon upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04
*I cannot use ctrl+alt+F[1-6] to go to the alternate bash screens. The screen is just completely blank.
*From the totally blank screen, I can enter my password, and then I will hear the "Bongo drum" sound of Ubuntu logging in. Hence, it seems that the system is on and running somehow, it's just the display that isn't showing up.
*My system NVIDIA.

I don't know if that helps to diagnose the problem.

Please refer to [Bug #1326740]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1326740").

Updated packages have been available for a little while now in Utopic, with a fix that has been verified by several users.  These updated packages are now in trusty-proposed. You will need to enable the trusty-proposed repository. See [Enable Proposed]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/EnableProposed") on how to do it.

Then install the updated "light-locker-settings" and "xfce4-power-manager" packages:```
sudo apt-get install light-locker-settings xfce4-power-manager
```

Once you've got the latest packages installed, please restart your computer and perform the following test:
Use light-locker-settings to toggle the setting.
      a) Disable "Lock on Suspend"
      b) Click "Apply"
      c) Enable "Lock on Suspend"
      d) Click "Apply"

Once you have verified the fix, please leave a comment on the above bug.

---

### Post by bren4 on 2014-06-19
Hi Slickymaster. 
Thanks for your help, and also thanks for providing your instructions at exactly the level of description that I could follow. Unfortunately, it didn't solve the problem, but it did _change_ the problem somewhat:

After doing what you said, when I "wake it up", the system loads the login screen with the coloured background and the 3-note bongo drum, and I can actually _see_ myself entering the password (This is different from before where it was black immediately.) Once I enter my password, it goes blank again, and I wait for my desktop to load up, which never happens. It just stays black except for the white mouse-cursor ( which I can initially move, but after a minute or so, even that gets frozen).

Incidentally, I also tried a suggestion from this site: [http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/ubuntu-linux/201167-14-04-black-screen-after-suspend.html](http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/ubuntu-linux/201167-14-04-black-screen-after-suspend.html)

======================**_DO NOT DO THIS, IT CREATES OTHER PROBLEMS =======================_**
- booted in Recovery Mode
- started the Root Shell
- apt-get remove lightdm
- apt-get install gdm
- restarted the system
============================================================================

When I did this, There was a different login screen, but it did fix the wake-up issue -*briefly.* Once I started working again, immediately afterwards, however, either the keyboard or mouse would freeze up. Eventually I had to reboot and reinstall lightdm.

I went to the bug-report site you cited, but couldn't see any other solutions suggested. I'm more than happy to *test* proposed solutions and report back the results, but proposing solutions myself is beyond my level.

---

### Post by bren4 on 2014-06-22
Hi All

my problem was fixed by just changing the display driver to the proprietary version (alas, my sense of open-source purity is sullied, but the problem is solved.)
My graphics card was NVIDIA, and if yours is too, then this will probably (I guess) fix the problem.

*Open System settings (you can type "System settings" into the search field from the icon at the top left corner and click on the icon with the wrench and the gear)
 -> "Software & updates"
-> select Panel labelled "Additional Drivers"

There you should see a selection of drivers for your display. mine had previously selected "Using X.org X server -- Nouveau ..." on it. ,so I selected instead the option that says "Using  NVIDIA binary version ...(proprietary, tested)". Hopefully you have somewhat similar options and can fix them by making an analogous selection. If it does fix the problem, please leave a follow-up comment.

---

