---
title: "Q: 16.04 cron job skipped"
date: 2018-02-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by linuksguru on 2018-02-15
Hi !

I run into simple and stupid problem.

Created cron job on 16.04 - /etc/cron.d/dailymgmt 
55 23 * * *    root    reboot

and restarted cron. This simple task should reboot 16.04 LTS virtual machine running under KVM every day at 23.55.
however
:~# uptime
16:38:10 up 2 days, 14:38,  2 users,  load average: 0.00, 0.04, 0.07
shows that job didn't run. I restarted machine manually, same problem.
"reboot" from root terminal WORKS OK.

Even moved "reboot" into separate shell script, no help.
On one of the forums found receipt from Debian user who suggested to remove "root" from cron job. Restart cron service resulted in syntax error, which means jobs have been scanned and parsed, yet for whatever reason are not executed.

What could be the problem ?
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2018-02-15
I made your same cron job, except for every 5 minutes on a test VM. Indeed it did not work. However, keep in mind that it doesn't know any path by default. So I specified the entire path and then it worked fine.

```
doug@serv-dev:/etc/cron.d$ [COLOR="#FF0000"]cat testreboot[/COLOR]
00,05,10,15,20,25,30,35,40,45,50,55 * * * *   root    /sbin/reboot
```

And readers, yes, I am aware that I could have used "*/5 * * * *" instead.

---

### Post by linuksguru on 2018-02-15
> **Doug S said:**
> I made your same cron job, except for every 5 minutes on a test VM. Indeed it did not work. However, keep in mind that it doesn't know any path by default. So I specified the entire path and then it worked fine.

```
doug@serv-dev:/etc/cron.d$ [COLOR=#FF0000]cat testreboot[/COLOR]
00,05,10,15,20,25,30,35,40,45,50,55 * * * *   root    /sbin/reboot
```

And readers, yes, I am aware that I could have used "*/5 * * * *" instead.


Its worked, thanks.
Quite strange, since even moving "reboot" into separate shell script with shebang didn't worked.

I have a lot of similar cron scripts on OpenSUSE. mostly for backup and cleanup, it was never a problem.

---

