---
title: "16.04 will damage my harddrive"
date: 2016-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by one-9-archmage on 2016-04-30
After an upgrade from 14.04 to 16.04

When I start 16.04 with the normal menu entry than:
- It will tell me that I have to enter the Passphrase to encrypt my swap partition.
- The superblock of /dev/sda6 will be damaged
- After some time it will come into the Emergency Console.
- From the Emergency Console I can go on with the boot and will than land again in the Emergency Console
- Or I can look at the logs in the Emergency Console. There it has problems to mount /dev/sda6 and the DHCP seems to fail
- Or I can reboot

But when I choose the 16.04 (Upstart) entry than I can boot my system normal. However I have to repair the superblock at /dev/sda6 before I can mount it If I did start 16.04 in the normal way before. If the superblock is repaired, I can start 16.04 (Upstart) as many times I like. /dev/sda6 wont be damaged. But once I chose the normal entry my /dev/sda6 is again damaged.

Could someone tell my how I can avoid destroying my partition and what I can do to normal boot my system?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-04-30
Start in  recovery mode and run fsck on dev/sda6, select root from the menu then run the following command:

```
fsck /dev/sda6
```

this should fix your problems, unless you have a failing hard drive.

---

### Post by one-9-archmage on 2016-05-01
Well, I'm using fsck.ext4 for repairing the partion.

I doubt that this is a failing harddrive, since I can restart as many times I want with the 16.04 (Upstart) option (or start into Windows for that mater). The partition will work without any problem.

Only when I chose the Ubuntu 16.04 entry without the Upstart the partition will be damaged.

So I really think that this menu entry will damage the partition. If I understand correctly this entry would use Systemd instead of Upstart. However that entry isn't working and damaging my harddrive.

---

### Post by one-9-archmage on 2016-05-04
I tried it with a new harddrive. (I copy the partition on the new harddrive.)

Starting Ubuntu 16.04 in the normal modus will still damage my sda6 partition.

---

