---
title: "12.04 Unity &quot;Switch windows of current application&quot; broken"
date: 2012-06-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RichLouth on 2012-06-10
In a recent upgrade the ability to switch windows of the current application has been broken.

Before I could click on the application's icon and unity would spread the available windows over the desktop for me to pick which one I wanted. This could also be achieved using the keyboard shortcut super+` (backtick).

Now, if I click the application icon nothing happens. If I press super+backtick it only overlays the application icons with their numbers, in order. Neither action spreads the windows over the desktop as it did before.

I'm on a mac book pro but neither the backtick or the squigally s key above the tab key works.

alt+` works and provides a similar functionality but I would really like to be able to just click on the icon as I did before.

I've tried looking in gconf-editor for the key binding but without success.

Any ideas how to restore the old behaviour? Or any word on if this is a bug that will be fixed?

I've searched for an answer but haven't had any luck.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-06-10
maybe try: unity --reset

---

### Post by RichLouth on 2012-06-10
Thank you dino99.

Yes, that's fixed it.

Just have to fiddle with the settings to get it like I like it again.

i.e. 1 workspace & no switcher, desktop icon, no hdd icons, smallest icon size.

But I know how to do that :)

---

### Post by RichLouth on 2012-07-01
Just a follow up for anyone that cares.

The problem was that in compizconfig settings manager I'd set:

General Options -> Desktop Size -> Horizontal Virtual Size and Vertical Virtual Size both to 1.

I'd done this in order to get rid of the workspace switcher. For some reason this also affects the way the window spreader works. If either of those values is greater than 1 the window spreader works again. If they are both 1, it stops working.

Seems like a bug to me but what do I know? I guess I have to live with the workspace switcher because the window spreader is pretty key to Unity working well as a gui.

---

