---
title: "11.04 Lost the Launcher"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by seroto9 on 2011-04-29
After upgrading to Natty from Maverick I started playing with the Compiz settings (trying to get my cube back), causing the Launcher to vanish!

This means I can't launch any applications - is there an easy way to restore it?

---

### Post by jabberwv on 2011-04-29
I can't use my computer after upgrading to NN.  When I Log in, only my few icons on the desktop work.  No Unity launcher, no top or bottom bars (places, system, etc).  I can't even log off!  I have to push the on/off button to turn off the computer.  I can log on with the Ubuntu classic option, but the unity launcher is not there either.  What gives?  The computer is an HP ProBook 6540b, purchased just last summer.

---

### Post by seroto9 on 2011-04-30
I sympathise, forced to use W*****s again.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-04-30
> **seroto9 said:**
> I sympathise, forced to use W*****s again.

:sigh: The fix was so easy. Are you still interested?

---

### Post by seroto9 on 2011-04-30
Yes yes yes!

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-04-30
Well - let's hope it is easy after all. :)

I'm assuming you had compizconfig-settings-manager installed but, if not, open a terminal with ctrl-alt-T (since you have no launcher) and run:

```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
```If you do have ccsm installed, then open a terminal as before with ctrl-alt-T and run ccsm with:

```
ccsm
```First thing, switch off the desktop cube. The cube is incompatible with Unity - or so I read. This *may* cause compiz to crash in which case you may need to restart the desktop. If you are really stuck at this point, alt-PrintScreen-K (the Printscreen key is sometimes labelled SysReq) will kill the xserver and take you back to the login screen. Once you've logged in again and if the Unity desktop is still not right, open a terminal with ctrl-alt-T and run "ccsm" again, and go to Desktop > Ubuntu Unity Plugin and under "Hide Launcher" set it to "Dodge Windows".

If none of that has worked, you can set Unity to its default settings by opening a terminal as before and running:

```
unity --reset
```This will remove any launcher icons you have added to the default setup.

---

### Post by seroto9 on 2011-04-30
The keyboard shortcuts you described don't work; no terminal. :(

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-04-30
Ctrl-alt-T doesn't work? That's only one shortcut. That sounds like more is broken than just the non-appearance of the launcher. I really don't know if this will work because I'm not going to try it on my system, but try logging into a virtual terminal - ctrl-alt-F1. Then run:

```
unity --reset
```

---

### Post by seroto9 on 2011-04-30
I've tried this, but although ctrl-alt-F1 works, I'm then asked for my ubuntu login (which I type in) and then a password - but I can't type anything in the password field!

One thing I am able to do is right click on the desktop to "Create a Launcher". Would this be a possible solution to getting in to Terminal? I'd try it, but I don't know which file to point this launcher to in order to run Terminal - any ideas?

I much appreciate your efforts, thanks. x

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-04-30
> **seroto9 said:**
> I've tried this, but although ctrl-alt-F1 works, I'm then asked for my ubuntu login (which I type in) and then a password - but I can't type anything in the password field!

Just as in a gnome terminal, you don't see your password going in. You don't get any feedback. Just type it and then press enter. Are you sure it's not going in?

> **seroto9 said:**
> One thing I am able to do is right click on the desktop to "Create a Launcher". Would this be a possible solution to getting in to Terminal? I'd try it, but I don't know which file to point this launcher to in order to run Terminal - any ideas?

That's a good idea. When you create the desktop launcher, the command to go in the command field is:

```
gnome-terminal
```

---

### Post by mwshook on 2011-04-30
I had a similar problem. I saw "desktop cube," said "what's that?" (I still don't know what it is)

When I clicked it, the launcher and the panel turned to scrambled pixels.
I hit ctrl-alt-F1, logged in, and did a "sudo reboot now" to see if that would fix things.

After the restart, I logged back in, and it seemed there was no window manager whatsoever. Just my desktop, and some icons.

So, ctrl-alt-F1 again, sudo reboot again.

This time I logged in with the "Ubuntu Classic" option at the bottom of the screen. It started up fine with the old-school gnome desktop.

Then, looking at coffeecat's helpful instructions, I ran ccsm. Under "Desktop" I re-checked "Ubuntu Unity Plugin" and "Desktop Wall."

It gave me some dialog boxes, asking if I wanted to use Unity's keyboard shortcuts or Gnome's. I chose the Unity option for all of these.

Everything seems to be OK now.

---

### Post by mwshook on 2011-04-30
> **mwshook said:**
> 

Everything seems to be OK now.

Oops. Nothing's fixed. If I log in with "Ubuntu" I still get the same problem. No window manager.

If I log in with "Ubuntu Classic," I now get a strange mix of Unity and Gnome (that's not actually all that bad).

I have the bar with open apps on the bottom, and the launcher on the left.

I'm going to leave it as-is for now.

Any ideas on how to get unity back once you've killed it with the desktop cube? Where should we report that bug?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-04-30
Did you try "unity --reset" from a terminal? That should set all the Unity configurations back to default.

---

### Post by mwshook on 2011-04-30
Yeah, the behavior is very odd. When I am logged in with the default "Ubuntu" option (Unity), there is no window manager. Yet I can click on icons, etc. I created a blank HTML document to open firefox.

I can use nautilus to browse to /usr/bin and double click on any program I like.

BUT

I can't type anything into any terminal! They open fine, the mouse seems to work, but I can't type. I tried gnome-terminal and xterm. If I Alt+F1, that terminal doesn't do me any good, because "unity --reset" gives me an error message.

There's already a bug opened on this. Hopefully someone will figure out a fix soon. [Bug #773141]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compizconfig-settings-manager/+bug/773141")

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-05-01
I've done a bit of experimenting on a spare  Natty  install. This was installed from the Beta2 but fully updated.

First thing to comment is that when you try to enable the desktop cube you are asked quite explicitly whether you want to disable a plugin necessary for Unity. As this was an experiment, I pressed on and broke the desktop in the way others have described. I tried various things, but this is what seems to work. Log out of your broken Unity desktop by pressing alt-Printscreen-K. Log back in but choose Unity Safe Mode after entering your username. You will get what looks like a classic gnome desktop. Opening ccsm shows that desktop cube is disabled and Unity re-enabled, but trying to log back into Unity merely takes you to the broken desktop once more. Instead, open a terminal, and:

```
unity --reset
```That will take a little time and your Ubuntu Safe mode desktop will morph into a strange mix of Unity and classic gnome. Log out and then log into "Ubuntu" for Unity and Unity should now work OK. Of course, it will be set back to defaults - you will have lost any launchers you added to the dock - but at least it works.

I can confirm that ctrl-alt-T did not open a terminal on the broken desktop and logging into a virtual terminal did not help.

---

### Post by ranjank on 2011-05-01
Unity has few bugs. Canonical could have postponed launch of 11.04 and fixed all bugs.

---

### Post by josephku on 2011-05-01
If you are interested, you can start an application in the graphical environment from another console terminal.  After you find yourself in that stuck graphic environment (without a window manager):

1. press: ctrl-alt-f1
2. logon the text based console terminal
3. type: export DISPLAY=:0.0
4. type: gnome-terminal &
5. press: ctrl-alt-f8

That should start gnome-terminal in your graphical environment (that may be missing the window manager).  From there, you can do the "unity --reset" and other command line commands.

---

### Post by seroto9 on 2011-05-01
Hurrah! That worked. Thanks for your time and effort - much appreciated.

---

### Post by ranjank on 2011-05-01
How much time it takes for Unity reset?. I am running it from past 3 hours.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-05-01
> **ranjank said:**
> How much time it takes for Unity reset?. I am running it from past 3 hours.

A couple of minutes. Three hours means something is not right.

---

### Post by autofyrsto on 2011-05-01
I ran into similar trouble after trying to set up the desktop cube and watching the whole Unity environment disintegrate. After retreating to a Ubuntu Classic to devise a rescue plan, I came up with this:

My Unity desktop was there, but the launcher and panels were missing. I right clicked on the desktop and chose "create launcher". I then created a terminal launcher by writing "xterm" (without quotes) under both the name and command fields. After double-clicking the xterm launcher, I could start launching other programs from the terminal.

I typed "ccsm" (without quotes) to start the CompizConfig Settings Manager. Once there, I checked the "Ubuntu Unity Plugin" box. This restored my Unity panel and launcher. You could probably also try typing "unity --reset" into the terminal, as had been suggested. In either case, this is one way to get a terminal window up if your Unity launcher and panel have vanished.

If I may, I would like to opine here that making the functional parts of the Unity desktop a Compiz plugin that is fully incompatible with the desktop cube and other popular compiz plugins was probably a plusungood idea.

---

### Post by mwshook on 2011-05-01
It seems all better now.
I had logged out overnight, and logged back in using "Ubuntu" (non-classic) this morning.

This time, there were some signs of a window manager (title bars and the panel) I was able to browse to /usr/bin/gnome-terminal under nautilus. The terminal now worked properly.

I ran unity --reset. It brought back the launcher, and sat there for about 10 minutes. I eventually got tired of waiting and cancelled it with ctrl+c. The window manager and Unity features all disappeared again.

I rebooted the computer and now Unity seems to be working fine in a default state. I'm not sure why unity --reset seems to hang in this setting. I'm not confident that what I did would be reproducible for other users having this problem.

I looked up the desktop cube. It seems kind of goofy and I regret poking around with that now. But with a brand-new interface like this, It's hard to know what features are stable and what features are whiz-bang experimental stuff. I'm not sure why something like the desktop cube would be included in a production release.

Oh well, back to poking around. But I'm going to do it on a new user account!

---

