---
title: "[10.04] Ubuntu freeze because of Firefox?"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-02
Hello,

I installed Ubuntu 10.04 and experience freezing a couple of minutes after Firefox is opened. Everything is freeze (keyboard, mouse) and the only solution is to reboot. 

I use xorg-server version 2:1.7.6-2ubuntu7

Attached is the dmesg output.

Thanks for any clue to diagnose or solve this blocking issue.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-02
have seen others users with this problem today in this forum.

look at .xsession-errors and others logs to find a way to debug

if you have not bookmarks and passwords saved, the better way is to remove.mozilla into your /home then reinstall firefox with synaptic

or : sudo dpkg-reconfigure firefox

note: the problem is not (maybe) a firefox but a plugin one, need to check (uninstall theses plugins) to see if it makes difference

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-02
Thanks for your answer. "Nice" to hear that I'm not the only one :)

I've removed .mozilla and reconfigure firefox. No plugin anymore (I had only AdBlock Plus but I've disabled it after the first crash without any effect)/

Here is the xsession-errors attached. Some errors:
[I](polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1341): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: cannot register existing type `_PolkitError'

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1341): GLib-CRITICAL **: g_once_init_leave: assertion `initialization_value != 0' failed

(gnome-power-manager:1354): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.24.0/gobject/gsignal.c:2273: signal `proxy-status' is invalid for instance `0x85a66f8'

Application calling GLX 1.3 function "glXCreatePixmap" when GLX 1.3 is not supported!  This is an application bug[/I]

So this mean that the problem is from X or video drivers and not from Firefox? I run a desktop on quite "old" hardware.

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-02
Just to report that reconfiguring Firefox didn't fix the problem. I'll try to investiguate on the strange xsession errors.

---

### Post by Neo40 on 2010-05-02
Today, my mouse stopped working 3-4 times. Never happened before.
The only way I found to fix this is reboot my machine. :(
Here is my .xsession-errors:

```
/etc/gdm/Xsession: Beginning session setup...
Setting IM through im-switch for locale=fr_CA.
Start IM through /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/all_ALL linked to /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/default.
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-OswrOb
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-OswrOb
SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/keyring-OswrOb/ssh
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-OswrOb
SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/keyring-OswrOb/ssh

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1635): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: cannot register existing type `_PolkitError'

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1635): GLib-CRITICAL **: g_once_init_leave: assertion `initialization_value != 0' failed

(gnome-power-manager:1631): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.24.0/gobject/gsignal.c:2273: signal `proxy-status' is invalid for instance `0x8ab4ee0'
Unable to find a synaptics device.
Initializing nautilus-gdu extension
Initializing nautilus-open-terminal extension
Starting gtk-window-decorator
I/O warning : failed to load external entity "/home/eric/.compiz/session/105cd0724ba1583555127283668412719300000015550034"
Nautilus-Share-Message: Called "net usershare info" but it failed: «*net usershare*» a retourné l'erreur 255*: net usershare: cannot open usershare directory /var/lib/samba/usershares. Error Aucun fichier ou dossier de ce type
Please ask your system administrator to enable user sharing.


(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(firefox-bin:1836): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

(gnome-terminal:2768): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_accel_map_unlock_path: assertion `entry != NULL && entry->lock_count > 0' failed
Nautilus-Share-Message: Called "net usershare info" but it failed: «*net usershare*» a retourné l'erreur 255*: net usershare: cannot open usershare directory /var/lib/samba/usershares. Error Aucun fichier ou dossier de ce type
Please ask your system administrator to enable user sharing.
```

---

### Post by vzhen on 2010-05-03
I think its not only firefox
I use google chrome and it freeze too


I am able to move my mouse but not clickable.
example: tabs, menu, button on panel, everything not clickable.

---

### Post by Ugurcan377 on 2010-05-03
i had the same problem using chrome solved it

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-03
> **Ugurcan377 said:**
> i had the same problem using chrome solved it
To be exact, this is more a workaround than a solution. Or would you consider switching to Debian a solution to your (our) 10.04 problem? :-)

Anyway, I'm currently testing Chromium but hope that a solution will be provided soon be the Ubuntu people.

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-03
I just had another crash, using Chromium (no Firefox at all).

So if I summary:
- Desktop
- Clean install on CD
- no proprietary drivers 
- Ubuntu 10.04 is not usable, freezing each time and force to reboot 

I'm very disappointed by this version :-(

---

### Post by Zunino on 2010-05-04
Hello.

I'd just like to add my name to the list of users who are facing this nasty situation. I had told myself I'd wait a little longer before upgrading from 9.10, but just couldn't hold it. Now what I have is an unreliable system in which the mouse cursor will simply freeze at, apparently, random moments. I see a lot of people are trying to find connections between the freezes and certain applications. I haven't been able to pinpoint the source either. To me, it seems mostly like a random event.

FWIW, there was a poster in another thread who mentioned that the problem would apparently occur when the system was under strain. 

Looking forward to finding a solution.

Regards,

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-04
> **tomazi said:**
> I installed Ubuntu 10.04 and experience freezing a couple of minutes after Firefox is opened. Everything is freeze (keyboard, mouse) and the only solution is to reboot.

You seem to have the "filesystem remounted readonly" problem that a lot of people have had in 9.10 and 10.04 - after rebooting you have "orphan cleanup on readonly fs" in dmesg, but no recovered files in lost&found.

You could see which unresolved bugs you like out of:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/515937](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/515937)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/528981](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/528981)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/568711](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/568711)

(some older ones at [http://www.iol.ie/~stuartneilson/Bootup_fsck.html](http://www.iol.ie/~stuartneilson/Bootup_fsck.html))

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-05
Thanks Stuart, I will have a look on that.

Maybe also this link will be very valuable : [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) 
I will try the different workaround. I will let you know if it works.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-05
> **tomazi said:**
> Maybe also this link will be very valuable : [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) 
I will try the different workaround. I will let you know if it works.

I came to a similar conclusion myself today, and added "radeon.modeset=0" to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT in /etc/default/grub, after which I have not experienced a single freeze or failure to resume.

In full:

I had an error "[drm:rs400_gart_adjust_size] *ERROR* Forcing to 32M GART size (because of ASIC bug ?)" in dmesg, and this is cured by adding "radeon.modeset=0"" to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT and then running sudo update-grub2, as per [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/562843](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/562843)

The symptoms look nothing like the Ubuntu 10.04 Release Notes "Working around bugs in the new kernel video architecture" ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/533784](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/533784) and [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/541501](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/541501)), but perhaps it is related.

The option "nomodeset" may work for other hardware.

---

### Post by jerry424 on 2010-05-05
Just installed 10.04, and I have this problem too. Using Chrome, it still froze. No keyboard, no mouse. 
I wonder if this is related to ATI video cards?
Even the live CD froze on me.

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-05
My video card is also an ATI (Radeon 9100):

tom@desktop:~$ lspci -nn | grep VGA
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon 9100 IGP [1002:5834]

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-05
Here is my report so far on [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) :
- tried workaround A, no effect (still freeze)
- tried workaround B, error message "VESA: kernel modesetting driver in use, refusing to load"
- tried workaround F, same error message "VESA: kernel modesetting driver in use, refusing to load"

---

### Post by monkiki on 2010-05-06
I had no freeze since I installed the privative FGLRX graphic controller. Works for "ATI Tecnologies Inc RV710 [Radeon HD 4350]".

I suspect the problem is the Adobe Flash Plugin.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-06
> **tomazi said:**
> Here is my report so far

Has anyone tried "radeon.modeset=0" or "nomodeset"?

As I said in post #13, it seems to be working for me so far.

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-06
> **StuartN said:**
> Has anyone tried "radeon.modeset=0" or "nomodeset"?

As I said in post #13, it seems to be working for me so far.

Hi Stuart,

I'm currently trying this since a couple of hours and so far, everything is ok ... but wait & see, I've already had much bad surprises!

/etc/default/grub
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash radeon.modeset=0"

Thanks for your inputs and ... let's cross fingers :-)

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-06
I was right to be suspicious: again a freeze :-(
I really begin to think that Ubuntu 10.04 is just not compatible with my desktop

---

### Post by jerry424 on 2010-05-06
Just so I understand, you need to boot to a command line and /etc/default/grub with vi?

---

### Post by JohnnyC35 on 2010-05-06
I had an issue with Ubuntu freezing whenever I opened the start menu. After looking over this and that it wound up being because of my gnome-panel. for some reason it was using over 200mb of memory. killing it and starting it again seems to have fixed this issue, at least for now.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-06
> **jerry424 said:**
> Just so I understand, you need to boot to a command line and /etc/default/grub with vi?

If you like vi then use vi. I would use gedit myself, **sudo gedit /etc/default/grub**

The change is in the line GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash" which becomes GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash radeon.modeset=0" (or possibly nomodeset).

This does not seem to be a cure, but my machine has only frozen once since adding this option, whereas it was freezing almost every resume previously.

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-06
> **jerry424 said:**
> Just so I understand, you need to boot to a command line and /etc/default/grub with vi?
Yes, just vi the file (at least, that's what I've done). // sorry didn't read your answer Stuart before writing this message //

I'm currently trying another option: downgrading to kernel 2.6.31-10 but I don't find the image on Synaptic or via aptitude :-(

---

### Post by vaxius on 2010-05-12
My machine freezes a few seconds after I enter my password after resuming from either standby or hibernation. I'll test later if it also does this without Firefox open as I usually leave it running.

---

### Post by ljdellar on 2010-05-13
I started getting this behaviour whenever I right-click anywhere in Firefox.  If I wait for the image to "grey out", then click the close button, then choose "cancel" from the "force quit" dialog, the system is recoverable.  However, as it stands this version of Ubuntu is NOT usable.

---

### Post by vaxius on 2010-05-17
> **vaxius said:**
> My machine freezes a few seconds after I enter my password after resuming from either standby or hibernation. I'll test later if it also does this without Firefox open as I usually leave it running.

I tried resuming with no Firefox and it didn't freeze. Firefox is probably part of the cause, then.

---

### Post by sodra on 2010-05-19
Hello
Sorry for the bump, but
I have an Nvidia Graphics card, not ATi, but my computer has the same problems

---

### Post by owenll on 2010-05-20
> **sodra said:**
> Hello
Sorry for the bump, but
I have an Nvidia Graphics card, not ATi, but my computer has the same problems

Same here

---

### Post by 10dollarNOOBIE on 2010-06-22
Desktop envi. wont load in my 10.04 anymore , im using 10.04  for  15 days already then suddenly it's stuck in the purple loading screen. how to fix this ty in advance.
 
btw i hope watching porn dont have to do with this coz im watching when this happens sigh* if it does i cant use this Os anymore ahahahaha kiddin :) peace!!!

---

### Post by MAGAIVER on 2010-07-24
I'd like to report that I've had similar freezes while using firefox on Ubuntu 10.04.
At first I did the upgrade from 9.10 and it would freeze randomly while watching videos online, the sound would still keep on playing but the everything else was frozen.
So yesterday I decided to try a clean install of 10.04, I cleaned the Ubuntu partition only, leaving the windows one untouched and re installed 10.04.
It froze on me once already, while watching a video on EA's website.

I decided to try a different browser, installed Opera and have been watching youtube videos and EA's videos for about half an hour so far with no freezing. I have several tabs open, I'm transferring 7 gig of music from an SD card to the Hard Drive and 2 videos playing at the same and it hasnt frozen so far.

I'm running a Dual core 1Gghz with a Gigabyte motherboard with on board video and audio. I have Vista and 10.04 Ubuntu on dual boot.

Hope that helps somehow.

---

### Post by buggyruss on 2010-09-10
[just posting this here as datapoint for others - may be relevant elsewhere]

Within the last few major releases my old PIII system has gone severely unstable. Originally using Firefox with, like, the G or maybe H versions of Ubuntu I had slow but working behavior - sites like Engadget were painful, but they loaded. After some release (pardon - did not pay attention to cause at the time) Firefox began to cause total system lockups - no response from telnet/ping into the box, for example, and no file activity. I tried various things to stop these lockups with no success. Most recently (within the last week) I've installed a fresh copy of the latest Lubuntu that uses the Chromium browser. That, too, causes a total system lockup "shortly" after being invoked (the system does not lock up UNTIL Chromium is invoked).

BUT...

The lockups apparently are happening only if I have networking enabled (ifup eth0) and ONLY happen inside the browser - I can retrieve packages, ping, etc to my heart's content external to a browser and the system appears stable. If the network is NOT enabled then invoking Chromium works as expected without system lockup. Suspecting something weird with the no-name Realtek ethernet card, I installed a new Intel Pro1000GT and started to try that out. On boot SOMETHING is now failing - I get the much-reported "NULL pointer dereferencing" error from a radeon function call and a trace is printed out during boot. The system then goes directly to a TTY login prompt. Logging into that text-terminal I can look at log files, etc AND I can manipulate the ethernet card (like pinging another LAN machine successfully). Trying to start up X results in a black screen.

Anyway, there's some sort of interaction happening between networking, graphics, and kernel that is causing these lockups. Booting with the "other" ethernet card in place allows the network and X to come up normally with nothing interesting in the various log files. Invoking Chromium under that environment causes a lockup. Changing to a different ethernet card causes a BOOT anomaly and apparent graphics failure, though networking appears to be working fine.

This set of disparate (new) bad symptoms suggests to THIS Ubuntu-naive user that something has been set up incorrectly that simply is getting accessed "later", causing the lockups or anomalies - it is not necessarily a networking or radeon (graphics) caused problem.

[that is to say, a deadly trap or two has been placed by some bad software someplace else that simply gets triggered by the above and possibly more]

As mentioned way above, this is relatively new behavior - a working old machine with static hardware went unstable across an Ubuntu/Xubuntu/Lubuntu release.

More here or elsewhere on the forums when I find things out. Note - many posts and bug reports already pretty-well relate the dmesg and other files' contents under these error conditions.

---

### Post by buggyruss on 2010-09-10
Okay, just remembered that I had an old ISO disk of Hardy Heron (8.04) so decided to give that a go without installing. After booting from the CD (using the same hardware as before but this time with the faster new Intel ethernet board as noted before), the system booted without anomaly and came up into X. I manually set the IP stuff up for the ethernet then pinged another LAN machine - it worked fine. Then I created a mini resolv.conf and did an "nslookup" of "cnn.com" - worked fine. Finally, I clicked on the Firefox icon, it came up (as expected - really slowly...off the CD and running on a 600MHz PIII!) , then I surfed over to [www.cnn.com](www.cnn.com) and had total success.

The system is surfing where ever I want and is doing graphics (as defined by the drivers installed on 8.04) as it should.

So...somewhere in between Hardy Heron 8.04 and the latest release (10.04?) something bad has been mistakenly programmed in.

Same hardware, two Ubuntu releases, one works fine, one breaks.

---

