---
title: "9.04 MS office install trouble"
date: 2010-08-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mynamesukx on 2010-08-04
I am fairly new to linux ubuntu and might have a little bit of a hard time trying to figure out how to follow some of the directions to complete the installation of stated product.
I have a ISO of MS Office 2007 and every time I try to launch the install via Wine, an error message pops up and says "Invalid name"
then it all shuts down.
I do not like open office nearly as much as I do MS Office. I would like to try and get this installed as I like to use it for my college work. Thanks

---

### Post by DarthScape on 2010-08-04
I'd recomend using [Play on Linux]("http://www.playonlinux.com/en/"), it installs the best version of wine for the application and has a special setup for certain applications like games and Microsoft Office.

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2010-08-04
It simply may not work. Try upgrading to 9.10 or 10.04. You could get a MS machine or dual boot.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-08-04
I would definitely recommend dual-booting if there are Windows applications you need for school.

---

### Post by Mynamesukx on 2010-08-05
Well thank you for all of your help, I still do not have it working as of yet, but now I am using Ubuntu 10.04
When I try to start the file named "Launch" it now says that "Blocked: wine start /unix" and then warns me that its not marked as an exicutible, but its an exe. I dont get it, something about file permissions...
Maybe I just did not read the help correctly, but I am lost. Please help me give myself permission do use my computer :)

---

### Post by Mynamesukx on 2010-08-07
I have been trying to get the file tow work, but the new issue is that I can not be granted permission to use it.
I open the terminal and use the command "sudo chown username /folder/where/file/is" 
and the terminal tells me that "permission denied" 
If I can now give myself permission to give myself permission...then I guess I am screwed. I have looked over the forums and that is how I got as far as I have gotten, but I do not know where to go from here.

---

