---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 - Strange results with HP printer"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by geofffox on 2009-10-30
I have just upgraded from Ubuntu 9.04 to 9.10.  Everything, seemingly, went well.  Today when attempting to print I ran into a strange problem which I can neither explain or fix!

My printer is an HP LaserJet 8150DN in a networked configuration.

Printing from web pages is fine.  However, I have a CRON which plucks weather maps and then prints them, which is where the problem happens.

Typically the CRON gets a map (
wget -nH -N [http://www.nco.ncep.noaa.gov/pmb/nwprod/analysis/namer/gfs/12/images/gfs_slp_180l.gif](http://www.nco.ncep.noaa.gov/pmb/nwprod/analysis/namer/gfs/12/images/gfs_slp_180l.gif)) then after the full series of maps is downloaded they get printed (lpr /home/geoff/scripts/gfs_slp_???l.gif)

Until the upgrade this worked perfectly.  Now, instead of going to paper tray 2 it is directed to the single page tray 1.  I get an error message because that tray is normally empty.

If I specify the page should be cropped or expanded to automatically fit the maps are printed fully across the page, but only half the vertical extent--which is then printed twice.  So, if a map goes from the Arctic Circle to the Gulf of Mexico it now only prints to the Canadian border--but twice.

I have looked at every possible printer option.  I am using the HP LaserJet 8150 driver.  Because of this problem I have reinstalled the driver a few times.

Any help will be greatly appreciated because at the moment I'm going a little nuts over it!

ps - Just tried moving to a generic PCL5 driver and the problem of two half pages persists.  Is it possible this is a CUPS problem?

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2009-11-18
Hi,

no help here but I think I'm on the same boat. I have Photosmart 8150 and what I get is rather similar to original poster's problem.
First, when I print a 10x15cm photo to photo tray the printer says "out of paper" (not true) and when I hit ok on the printer it feeds a blank paper and continues printing on sheet #2. However, that sheet gets only printed partially leaving a substantial white part at the end of the print.

All fine on Jaunty but after upgrade to 9.10 this happens. On fresh 9.10 same thing occurs.

I'm out of ideas..

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-18
You could try accessing the cups server directly from your web browser, to see if there are any other options.  try [http://localhost:631](http://localhost:631)

Also, it have you tried any other drivers from HP?

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2009-11-19
CUPS settings I tried via web page but they were same as what printer properties showed.
But that idea of installing different HPLIP drivers is something which didn't cross my mind.. thanks for the tip. Now just need to find how am I going to do it ;)

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-20
karhulitos,
You could[ take a look here]("http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/models/photosmart/photosmart_8100_series.html") at the HPLIP site.

[Here is the information from the OpenPrinting website.]("http://www.openprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=HP-PhotoSmart_8100")

Your printer should work perfectly.

To the original poster, the problem may be that something has changed with the print command in 9.10.  Thus, your cron job is not passing the proper arguments when it prints.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2009-11-26
Hmm.. are you suggesting me to install more recent version of hplip apart from from package manager?
I kind of lost the point of your suggestion..

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2009-12-06
Bugger..

I did the HPLIP 3.8.10 directly and same problem persists; whenever I print, Photosmart 8150 welcomes me with "out of paper" and flashes red light. I can continue printing by pressing OK at printer and after it takes new sheet of paper.

Backward progress for me :)

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2009-12-06
I had the same problem yesterday with my hp printer.  I got into cups, hp .run printer drivers and known errors loading these .run files.  In the end I did a clean install (formating to ext4) of 9.10 (rather than the upgrade from 9.04) and everything worked fine - including the printer.  I fear you could waste more time trying to get it to work rather than backing up and doing an install from scratch.

---

### Post by montego95 on 2009-12-06
I had upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 as well and just used Synaptics Package manager to install the HPLIP gui and re-install the other HP driver components and now I seem to be back in business.

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2009-12-07
OK, alright..

I have 2 boxes here, one is an upgrade ('production laptop' ;)) and other one is a clean install of 9.10.

I'm currently trying to get the clean box to print properly but problem is 100% same for both. So I'm reluctant to buy that upgrade as a reason for the prob.

One thing I forgot to mention: if I hit test print in system -> admin -> print properties, I get output nicely without red lights.
When I print from the real need, i.e. f-spot or open office draw I get red led/out of paper. Paper size for hp ps 8150 is "Photo with tear-off tab."

(Sometimes my faith in open systems is tested. Small things like this make me boil inside when wife orders me to get a simple photo print. But I know it's my fault - who told to do the upgrade in the first place?)

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2010-01-19
Hi there again,

I wanted to come back to tell my confusing experience.
I couldn't print with my Photosmart 8150 on 10x15cm photo paper until today.

Here's what I did: bought HP paper.

I don't believe this myself but I absolutely did nothing to solve the problem except what I posted above. Either something was fixed with the updates or using HP paper really solved my problem.

1. Sept 2009 while on Jaunty I needed to print about 50 photos. For this I bought 3 packets of Canon premium paper (or whatever it was called, most expensive Canon anyway) and printed them all without a hitch. Canon paper was 10x15cm and HP is photo with tear off tab (to avoid tearing off 50 tear off tabs).

2. I didn't print for a while and during this time karmic update came. First print on karmic resulted in "out of paper" or "wrong paper type" errors and asking help via this thread.

3. I bought HP paper with tear off tab and now all of a sudden both laptops print fine with PS 8150.


possible causes:
- sunspot activity
- HP printer detected Canon paper (!? no way?)
- karmic cups/hplip/etc somehow detected the ~1cm size difference of the media

Beats me but works for the time being.

---

