---
title: "StarOffice problem opening data file"
date: 2007-11-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by slumcat05 on 2007-11-15
Our machines at work use Solaris 9 and the StarOffice suite, I know it's not Ubuntu or OpenOffice, but I use Ubuntu at home, and I'm hoping this community will be able to help me out here.

We have these tab-delimited data files that we open in Excel on the PC-side. On the Unix side, when I try to open the file in SOffice Calc, it opens with Writer instead. If I Ctrl-A, Ctrl-X, and Paste-Special into a Calc spreadsheet (and select the Text CSV option), it works fine, but this is just a little tedious and roundabout. 

I've tried using a Nautilus script that used the command "soffice $NAUTILUS_SCRIPT_SELECTED_URIS -calc -nologo", but that still just opened it in Writer. I've also tried using the "File types and associations" to point the files at Calc (there is no known MIME type, it says "custom/7aee8bbc-8c06-..." and so on), as well as the Right-click -> Open With.. in Nautilus. These options don't seem to do anything, as the next time I try to open the file in Nautilus, it says there is no viewer capable of displaying the file and I should associate an app with it, which I do, again to no avail.

I'm hoping someone will come up with a clever method of doing this, maybe a script that forces it to open in Calc and format as tab-delimited, or some setting in SOffice that I can set. I can't attach the actual file, because it contains classified data, but I will attach a sample, which should hopefully be the same. (NOTE: The file actually has a .dat extension, but the forum would only accept a .txt file, not sure if that matters, but the Unix machine is trying to open a .dat file with an unknown MIM-type, not a .txt file)

Thanks in advance for any help or advice.

---

### Post by Tyche on 2007-11-15
From looking at OO.o, it would appear that any .txt file will be opened in Writer by default.  To open text files that are actually a representation of a table, the file should be in CSV format (Text CSV or inother words a text file that is made up of Comma Separated Values).  There appears to be no method of importing Tab Separated Values into a spreadsheet.  May I suggest that you try exporting the material as CSV's?  Then in StarOffice/OpenOffice select File -> Open and from the file type (near the bottom where it says All Files) scroll through the list to where it says Text CSV.

---

### Post by slumcat05 on 2007-11-15
Thanks for the reply **Tyche**. Unfortunately I don't control the format of the file. This data is generated by a complex simulation that is used by a lot of different analysts for several different purposes. I have no idea why they decided to do it this way, when other data is output as CSV files and opens just fine in SOffice. Is there a quick and easy way to automatically convert a file to CSV format which can then be opened in Calc?

---

### Post by Tyche on 2007-11-28
> **slumcat05 said:**
> Thanks for the reply **Tyche**. Unfortunately I don't control the format of the file. This data is generated by a complex simulation that is used by a lot of different analysts for several different purposes. I have no idea why they decided to do it this way, when other data is output as CSV files and opens just fine in SOffice. Is there a quick and easy way to automatically convert a file to CSV format which can then be opened in Calc?

I apologize for not getting back to you sooner.  My fault - I should have.

The only thing I can think of is to do a save-as on the file to a new name, then a find and replace to change all the tabs (may be as multiple spaces) to a comma.

I'll flag this so that I can see if you have any further problems.

---

