---
title: "10.10 Problem."
date: 2010-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by linel on 2010-10-25
hey guys...

I just installed for about 3 times. Every time i enable the drivers the theme gets wierd and doesnt change after reboot and also the plymouth gets very big and ugly i have tried that plymouth fix where you manually change the resolutions but it didnt work and also the theme is very terrible.
any idea what to do?

Even if i uninstall the drivers it still doesnt change to the normal theme it stays there..

[IMG]http://i55.tinypic.com/sgn9xe.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by RyuRabbit on 2010-10-25
have you tried downloading the driver straight from NVIDIA and seeing if it works that way? I, personally, haven't been able to even boot 10.10, so I'm still on 10.04, but I'd say try grabbing the driver from the NVidia site. Also, if you're running programs as root, it's going to give you the ugly Plymouth look :)

---

### Post by Dans564 on 2010-10-25
Wow very strange.  This didnt happen for me.  What graphics card do u have.

---

### Post by linel on 2010-10-25
i did try to install the nvidia drivers from the website i did that but i still get the problem.
I uninstalled the drivers and nothing changes really confused..

I use nvidia gtx285 never had a problem like this before

---

### Post by linel on 2010-10-25
this is getting annoying :(

---

### Post by linel on 2010-10-25
bump

---

### Post by linel on 2010-10-26
still having the problem any help?

---

### Post by linel on 2010-10-26
well last time im posting ill give up if i dont get some form of help..

---

