---
title: "7.04 lost boarders on windows"
date: 2008-07-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stupor on 2008-07-26
after new nvidia driver lost all boarders on every open page installed old driver still does the samething. now when i turn on driver it wont reboot have to xorg again please help newbee nvidia geforce 7300gs

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-07-26
What window manager were you using before?

Try running ```
metacity --replace
```report if it fixes anything.

---

### Post by stupor on 2008-07-26
thank you got boarders back so what went wrong

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-07-26
> **stupor said:**
> so what went wrong
I have no idea what caused that particular malfunction on your setup.

Yet for general explanations:
"metacity" is the most widespread gtk2 window manager and the standard in Ubuntu. The "--replace" option replaces a running windows manager by metacity. Even though you might have never fiddled with this and metacity most likely was your WM by default, its previous instance was obviously corrupted.

What you've done now is sort of like restarting your WM...

---

### Post by stupor on 2008-07-27
thank you very much for helping but have to replace every time i reboot comes up with this err Window manager warning: "" found in configuration database is not a valid value for keybinding "toggle_shaded"
if this means anything please help dont know what it means

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-07-27
Make sure you have ```
libdecoration0
``` installed.

Navigate to "System > Administration > Software Sources" and enable the two canonical repos under the "Third Party Software" tab.

Run ```
sudo apt-get install libdecoration0
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

Now what?

---

### Post by stupor on 2008-07-29
all done but did not work kiba dock playing up now i did try new nvidia driver not been right since and new frost wire wont open all the way. any thoughts on that please

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-07-29
Man, you have to describe your errors in more detail to receive adequate help. (I heard punctuation to be a helpful tool in written communication also...)

As for 'any thoughts':
Drop kiba dock and use either 'AWN' or 'cairo-dock' (both in the repos).
And I doubt frost wire not opening to be in any way connected to window decorations.

I know, it's not the "this-simple-step-will-solve-everything" reply, but please, more detail.
Are the "borders" back for good?
Is your resolution fine?
Is 3D acceleration working?
Why did/do you need a new nvidia driver?

---

### Post by stupor on 2008-08-02
3D acceleration is not working and resolution is fine. Borders still fail on reboot. as for new nvidia driver heard it was ment to be better.

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-08-02
Run ```
gksu nvidia-xconfig
```, restart X. 3D acceleration should now work.

If it reports that the package is not installed / i.e. it doesn't know 'nvidia-xconfig', run```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx nvidia-settings nvidia-xconfig
```

---

### Post by smooth3006 on 2008-08-02
install the "compiz fusion icon" in synaptic and then choose emerald or compiz as your window decorator in the settings.

---

### Post by stupor on 2008-08-03
sorry could not find the compiz fusion icon, in synaptic an i do have emerald 
if that helps. Still no luck on getting it to work properly.

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-08-03
It's in "Applications > Add/Remove..." even.

Alternatively run ```
sudo apt-get install fusion-icon
```

What about 3D acceleration?

---

### Post by stupor on 2008-08-04
3D acceleration not working, have to xorg when i try to turn it on.

---

### Post by stupor on 2008-08-05
sorry but still not working.

---

