---
title: "12.04 - Dash Not Displaying Applications?"
date: 2012-10-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by UnknownFearNG on 2012-10-06
Hello all. A few days ago, I noticed that the Dash in Ubuntu 12.04 is not getting any applications I ask it to. For instance, I'll open the Dash by hitting the Windows key. I'll try to search for "Firefox", but it lists Files and Folders. I'll even trying going into the Applications menu, but no applications are being listed. Even when I search for something, like "Calc" for the calculator, nothing comes up. Can anyone tell me why this is happening?

---

### Post by g_s_patra on 2012-10-13
> **UnknownFearNG said:**
> Hello all. A few days ago, I noticed that the Dash in Ubuntu 12.04 is not getting any applications I ask it to. For instance, I'll open the Dash by hitting the Windows key. I'll try to search for "Firefox", but it lists Files and Folders. I'll even trying going into the Applications menu, but no applications are being listed. Even when I search for something, like "Calc" for the calculator, nothing comes up. Can anyone tell me why this is happening?

Same for me. Apps box in dashboard is empty. Alt+F2 open up the command area, but that is not working. Reinstalled Unity from Software Centre, but same result.

---

### Post by UnknownFearNG on 2012-10-14
> **g_s_patra said:**
> Same for me. Apps box in dashboard is empty. Alt+F2 open up the command area, but that is not working. Reinstalled Unity from Software Centre, but same result.

Sorry I haven't replied in awhile, but I have the solution. Looking at an AskUbuntu question regarding this situation, [Dash search gives no results]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/125843/dash-search-gives-no-result"), the second reply has the solution that you need. It worked for me as well. What you need to do is run:

```

rm ~/.cache/software-center -R
unity --reset &

```

After they both are done running, do a restart and everything should be back to normal.

---

### Post by dcommini on 2013-04-29
> **UnknownFearNG said:**
> Sorry I haven't replied in awhile, but I have the solution. Looking at an AskUbuntu question regarding this situation, [Dash search gives no results]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/125843/dash-search-gives-no-result"), the second reply has the solution that you need. It worked for me as well. What you need to do is run:

```

rm ~/.cache/software-center -R
unity --reset &

```

After they both are done running, do a restart and everything should be back to normal.

Thanks! I was having the same problem and this helped immensely! 

Does anybody know what is causing this problem?

---

