---
title: "How do you make items from internal ntfs partition appear on &quot;recent documents?&quot;"
date: 2009-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sexyclient2 on 2009-11-22
I have most of the items in my /home folder (like 'documents,' 'music,' 'videos,' 'pictures,' and 'downloads') linked to folders on an internal partition that's in NTFS format (so that I can access all the necessities when ubuntu inevitably fails at some integral function and I'm forced to use windows.)  I do most of my "work" there so accessing recent documents from the menu that bears the same name (in "Places") is a huge time-saver, but unfortunately my documents or files that I access from this internal partition don't show up in the "Recent Documents" list!

Someone please tell me why this is happening and (if possible) how I can solve this problem.  Also, extra points for helping me make my ntfs partition un-unmountable (for non root users, if that makes any sense.)

---

### Post by jm2 on 2009-11-22
Not sure, but is the mount user filesystems fuse the option to set to accomplish this.

this is found by being administrator, system, Administration, users and groups, then select the user, (enter password), and then the properties, user priveleges.

---

### Post by jm2 on 2009-11-22
also look at the manual for mount , man mount and man fstab and man umount 


this is from the man mount command

the non-superuser mounts.
                     Normally,  only  the  superuser  can  mount file systems.
                     However, when fstab contains the user option on  a  line,
                     anybody can mount the corresponding system.

                     Thus, given a line

                            /dev/cdrom  /cd  iso9660  ro,user,noauto,unhide

                     any  user  can mount the iso9660 file system found on his
                     CDROM using the command
....
    For more details,  see  fstab(5).   Only  the  user  that
                     mounted  a  filesystem can unmount it again.  If any user
                     should be able to unmount, then use users instead of user
                     in  the  fstab  line.  The owner option is similar to the
                     user option, with the restriction that the user  must  be
                     the  owner  of  the special file. This may be useful e.g.
                     for /dev/fd if a login  script  makes  the  console  user
                     owner  of this device.  The group option is similar, with
                     the restriction that the user must be member of the group
                     of the special file.

---

### Post by sexyclient2 on 2009-11-22
Edit: Ubuntu's now recognizing all my documents - SWEETNESS! Thanks a billion, it worked perfectly!

For the extra points:  I SWEAR I trued to understand that, I really did, but I just can't wrap my head around it.  I used ntfs-config (I should have said so in the beginning, sorry,)  and didn't edit the fstab.  It looks like this, though: ```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=2f23ab28-1ab5-455b-aeec-9ffa1fa9bdf9 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=84eed58c-5d07-4359-9b61-29e35b13c885 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /windows/c ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /windows/Recovery ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/data ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```I'll go check the ubuntu wiki on ntfs partitions and see the options and what they do but, by all means, if you feel like just just tossing any more info around, that's cool too.

---

### Post by sexyclient2 on 2009-11-22
I'm so silly.  It turns out that users can't unmount already.  I only assumed otherwise because of the "eject" icon on the drive in nautilus, lol.  Everything's perfect on that front, sorry for the jack-assery.

---

