---
title: ".dmrc file has incorrect permissions"
date: 2007-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tiger.woods on 2007-04-30
I'm running Ubuntu Edgy and all of a sudden I got the following error message and now MYSQL won't start, anyone have any ideas or experience on what might have gone wrong?

"your $HOME/.dmrc file has incorrect permissions and is being ignored. users home directory should be owned by user and have 644 permissions"

TW,

---

### Post by Rob Alderson on 2007-04-30
The same thing happened to me last week, I did try to change the permissions but managed to bugger my install so I had to start from scratch again.

---

### Post by Drezliok on 2007-04-30
> **Rob Alderson said:**
> The same thing happened to me last week, I did try to change the permissions but managed to bugger my install so I had to start from scratch again.

Same here.

---

### Post by koshari on 2007-04-30
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=91455](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=91455)

---

### Post by Rob Alderson on 2007-04-30
I couldn't find that last week:confused:

---

### Post by tiger.woods on 2007-04-30
Could someone explain to me what the .dmrc file is and what it does?

Even though I'm not seeing that error anymore after deleting it then rebooting, my login screen has changed and I'm no longer seeing the usual login. This may seem strange but it seems to want to login to the "last login", does that make any sense?

It's also curios why I'm no longer able to get MySQL to start? MySQL only started to give me problems after I saw this message so they are related somehow.

TW,

---

