---
title: "10.04 No Monitor Issue"
date: 2010-06-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rensell on 2010-06-21
I'm beginning to grow very frustrated with this issue with linux. I'm running xUbuntu 10.04 with intel graphics (integrated) I have everything setup and running (thanks to this forum for issues that I've come across), I have SSH using putty and x11VNC. I plan to use this as file\print server with no KVM. 

My problem is when I don't have monitor plugged in at boot, the GUI does not load, I know the computer boots because I can use Putty and SSH with no problem but I can't VNC which starts after autologin. I need to run a gui because I use Playstation 3 Media Server and it runs after the GUI is loaded and I'm not completely familiar with Linux yet, and still like having a GUI.

Reading [ _this _]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting") I've tried disabling KMS and creating xorg.conf according to the instructions, but it doesn't solve the problem.

[_I've added nomodeset to my grub file, still doesn't help_]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes#Working%20around%20bugs%20in%20the%20new%20kernel%20video%20architecture")

I don't get why X feels that it must decide if a monitor is attached or not, my XP "server" has never had a monitor attached and I've never had an issue with it and RDP. 

I'm sorry to have to post about this issue and start yet another post here, but I've spent most of yesterday and this evening trying to figure this out myself.

TYIA,
-R

---

### Post by rensell on 2010-06-22
Does anyone have an idea?

---

### Post by krunge on 2010-06-22
I don't know how to solve your no-monitor problem, although I have seen those threads in these forums involving the problem with KMS and various tweaks to xorg.conf.

Maybe instead of using 'x11vnc+Xorg' you should use 'vncserver'.

(It is possible to emulate 'vncserver' via 'x11vnc -create' if you have installed the 'xvfb' package, but it is probably easier for you to just use 'vncserver'.)

Do a search for vncserver and xstartup to see what cmd to put in your ~/.vnc/xstartup to start your particular desktop (e.g. gnome-session for GNOME.)

---

### Post by rensell on 2010-06-23
I've got my server setup the way I'd like it to be, so now I'm ready to remove the monitor, and I've grown "fond" on the CLI and I no longer care to have a GUI at all, any idea how to boot directly to the terminal. Ideally, I'd like someone that knows how I would boot directly to the terminal and still autostart Playstation Media Server and allow me to startX if needed, but which would require me to attached a monitor, so still looking to boot w\o a monitor and now looking to boot w\o GUI. The more I do with xUbuntu the more I like it and the more I don't like it....

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-06-23
Just boot it up and use SSH to manage it.

---

