---
title: "9.10 Problem with Graphics/3D and other"
date: 2010-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hurdevan on 2010-01-11
9.10 Problem with Graphics/3D and other

I have a Thinkpad T42, 1.7GHz, 1Gb Ram and a Radeon 7500 Graphics card.

Everything that I am having trouble with works just fine in Ubuntu 9.04(except for the sound).
There are two problems that I think are linked or really the same. First off, When I turn off Compiz(Compiz works by default) then gnome-system-monitor does not work properly. At least the graphics side of it; the window appears black with random lines running threw it. The same thing will happen to Gnome-do if Compiz is off.

The second problem is getting 3d support to work. I installed and tried to run blender and I got this from the terminal:
```

Compiled with Python version 2.6.4.
Checking for installed Python... got it!
Segmentation fault

```
Then it ether does not open or the computer locks up completely and I have to force a shutdown. Which ever one it does I do not get my desired results:(. When trying to do chess in 3D it tells that I have 'No Python OpenGL support'. So I install the python-opengl package from the repositories; the program now just errors on start and I had to uninstall python-opengl to get Chess to work again.

I have tried all this with Compiz on and off with the same results.
Anyways thats about it, unless somebody knows how to setup the sound so a program won't lock it from other, then thats all I am having trouble with.

Cheers and many thanks for any help

 


   

-Computer-

Processor: Intel(R) Pentium(R) M processor 1.70GHz

Memory: 1026MB (323MB used)

Operating System: Ubuntu 9.10 32Bit

OpenGL Renderer: Mesa DRI R100 (RV200 4C57) 20090101 AGP 4x x86/MMX/SSE2 TCL

VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-01-11
If you are using the open source radeon/ati driver, ie, you haven't installed a proprietary driver for your card, I suspect that is your problem.  The newer version of xorg in karmic does not play nicely with the OS ati driver, which is a real pain, and you will find masses of posts and complaints about this.  In most cases tha driver worked perfectly in jaunty, as yours (and mine) did, but with karmic it has all gone to worms, I'm afraid.

For my card I have to run either without compiz, or with a lower than native resolution (up to 1024x768 only is OK, above that is rubbish), or using 16 bit colour instead of 24 bit.  This I have done with an edit of /etc/X11/xorg.conf like so:-
```
Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "ati"
    Option         "AccelMethod" "UXA"
EndSection 

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
            HorizSync    30-80
            VertRefresh    50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    16
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```
I have no idea if the **Option         "AccelMethod" "UXA"** bit at the top is needed, but I saw it mentioned in another post, and it does not cause any more problems so have left it at the moment.  You will need to put your own resolution figures in and the monitor refresh rates as well.

Back up your curent **xorg.conf** and try your own version of mine, and see if it helps.  If so, great; if not just go back to what you had before.

---

### Post by hurdevan on 2010-01-11
Ok Thanks for the reply.
Your configurations revealed no better results, nor did the ones I found online.:( The opengl screensavers do work I found out; though the 'Picture Folder' and 'Cosmos' screensaver fails without Compiz turned on. But the 'GlSlideshow' works just find along with all the other screensavers. So it looks like I have some 3D functionality. Also another thing that fails without compiz is the little notification box, black with lines threw it. Oh and the Xorg changes actually slowed things down like scrolling and typing so I am reseting it back to a blank file(Its worked the best that way).

---

### Post by hurdevan on 2010-02-09
*Bump*

OK this is still getting to me... A little.

I really want to know what the problem is here... So anyone, help is much appreciate. Thanks

My problem is that most, really all, applications that require some graphic support cannot function without Compiz on. 
A list of such applications is:

Gnome-do
Blender
gnome-system-monitor 
The little notification box that pop up at the top right of the screen.
Advent window navigator(I am assuming these bottom three because I am lazy)
Any widget applications
Google earth

All these application look like,when running without Compiz, that application running in the screenshot-1 that I have attached. That application just happens to be gnome-system-monitor.

However it gets trickier; Programs like Google Earth and blender wont work at even with compiz on. Google earth,at first erred out and did not work, but now works to some extent but looking at screenshot-1 then it overlays the graphics part of Google earth over every window.

Blender is just not usable at all,I really don't remember what it did I think something similar to what happens in screenshot(I uninstalled Blender).
 
I have found that to get Google earth and Blender to work properly then I have to switch to start another X session using xinit and run them there. It works just fine there. but it can get inconvenient to start a whole new X session to run program like these and does not work well with memory and other hardware.

Does anybody have Any Idea how I am to fix this???????

I have also attached my hardware specs; also I have tried to configure my xorg.conf but without any luck.

It seams to me that Compiz enables some drivers that allows programs like gnome-do to work; but it takes a whole new X session plus the X session that is already running to get Google earth to work. It would seam that this leaves out something that is keeping other programs like Google Earth form running properly.

Any help would be absolutely dandy.

Cheers

Thanks

---

