---
title: "10.04 w/ Wubi Installation Issues"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tullidil on 2010-05-02
I've used Wubi to great success on a previous laptop with 9.10, but I'm unable to get it working on this one for some reason. 

Computer Specifications:
Windows 7 64bit Home Edition
Intel Core i5 2.4GHz Processor
4 Gigabytes DDR3 RAM
nVidia GeForce 330M 

I have the latest AMD64 ISO of Lucid Lynx on my desktop, right next to the latest Wubi installer. Running Wubi (w/ Admin priveleges), it correctly detects the ISO and executes the installation no problem. 

Rebooting, the boot-manager gives me the option of Ubuntu or Windows 7. Here is where the problems begin: When I select Ubuntu, it gives me the normal "finalizing Ubuntu installation" command prompt message, but then just gives me a black screen. 

I am fairly certain it IS finalizing the installation because if I let my computer sit for a good 15 minutes or so, it will seemingly automatically reboot (as if Ubuntu's finalizations have finished and it defaulted to rebooting automatically). However, trying to go back into Ubuntu, I get a black screen and absolutely no response from the computer (it doesn't even seem like it's just my display that isn't working, since typing my password and enter seems to do nothing). 

I have pressing escape after initial install and trying different boot-options or whatever they may be, as well as doing the same after the installations have finalized. I know there are issues regarding nVidia cards, but from what I've checked of the forums no problem seems particularly similar to mine. 

I have also tried a 32-bit ISO to no avail, the same exact things occur.

Can anyone help me? I'm no stranger to Dual-Booting and Wubi but these issues have me confounded. I'd really rather have a Wubi virtual image instead of a dual boot partition for simplicity and ease of installation, so please don't direct me towards dual-boot guides. 

 Any help is greatly appreciated.

EDIT: I should add, I tried running Wubi 9.10 before Lucid Lynx was formally released and I had all these same problems still.
DOUBLE EDIT: Aw crap, I meant to post this in the Installation and Upgrades subforum of Main Support Categories, not General Help. If a mod would be so kind, could this be moved there please?

---

### Post by imagenius85 on 2010-05-03
I'm not sure if this is the case for you, but I had black screen with Ubuntu just like you described when I had inserted another video card in for SLI performance. (This was way back with 8.10 - things may have changed) This gave Ubuntu trouble deciding what video card to use. There is a config file somewhere to get Ubuntu to play nice with SLI but I'm not sure what it is and I didn't really 'need' SLI anyway. I took out one of the cards and sure enough, no more black screen.

Hope this helps!

EDIT: Ohh. I overlooked your system specs. Nothing in there about SLI. Uhhmm sorry... Disregard this post then? :\

---

