---
title: "10.10 and 11.04 complete freezes"
date: 2011-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ptipton on 2011-05-22
Approx 2 months ago my 10.10 machine, which is used mainly to download media,started to freeze on a regular basis. Freezes are complete, i.e cant restart x , cant bring up terminal or ssh into the machine etc.
Its difficult to isolate what triggers the freezes, sometimes occured during transfer of files to an NAS and whilst processing files at the end of a download in Sabnzbd.

I've run memtest for 3 passes ( also tried alternately removing each of the two stick of ram), have run CPUBurn with both cores at 100% for 30 mins and everything looks ok.

I've done a clean install of 11.04 on the original SATA disc and also tried a clean 11.04 install on a PATA disk but the problem still persists. ( I've also stripped the machine to its most basic setup).

At present the machine freezes whilst processing files at the end of a Sabnzb download and after posting in the Sabnzbd forum I've tried with and without ssl which made no diference.
( I still have the occasional freeze that cant be attributed to Sabnzbd so am not 100% sure this is the problem)

Any advice on how to further investigate/recify the problem would be very much appreciated.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-22
What works for me with hardware issues is to, create a persistent usb stick of Ubuntu, boot from it, and keep good logs for a while, and see what might be causing the issue. Make a comparison between both systems that way.  Use the USB as a baseline to compare with the logs from your old system.  If you want to post some detailed specs of your system here.. that would help.

---

### Post by ptipton on 2011-05-25
> **linuxinstalledfromhdd said:**
> What works for me with hardware issues is to, create a persistent usb stick of Ubuntu, boot from it, and keep good logs for a while, and see what might be causing the issue. Make a comparison between both systems that way.  Use the USB as a baseline to compare with the logs from your old system.  If you want to post some detailed specs of your system here.. that would help.

Thanks. Am wondering if you could elaborate a little. What logs should I be looking at? I can create a USB stick and install Sabnzbd and test but I'm wondering how this is different to installing on a different hard drive which I have already tried. At the moment I have two hard drives one SATA and one PATA with fresh installs of 11.04 and Sabnzbd and both have the freezing proble..

Thanks again for your help.

---

