---
title: "12.04 And Recognizing Flash Drives."
date: 2015-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wbee on 2015-04-23
Hello,

Without reading the description carefully,I ordered a Sandisk Cruzer USB2 Flashdrive.

I inserted it into a 2.0 compatible port and got as far as being told to install either the Windows of Mac drivers. This particular flash drive uses a password and encryption.

So,I used the Synaptic Package Manager to install usbmount,version .22.

With that installed,by opening the media file,it shows folder icons for USB 1 through 7. I don't know if that is Sandisk's partition system or usbmount's.

So,I attempted to move some files to it and got a screen saying the file would not copy because permission was denied.

I actually like the idea of a flash drive being password protected and would like to use it with 12.04.

How do I get it to work with Ubuntu?

-------------

Thank you.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-04-23
How is this drive formatted?

With it plugged in run command ```
sudo fdisk -l
``` in terminal and report back here with the output.

You may need to get rid of the encryption on it by reformatting using gparted, if that will work on an encrypted partition, or if that is impossibleyou may need to use a windows machine to run the encryption program on the disk and turn off encryption, assuming that is an option.

---

### Post by wbee on 2015-04-23
```
  Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *        2048   968910847   484454400   83  Linux
/dev/sda2       968912894   976771071     3929089    5  Extended
/dev/sda5       968912896   976771071     3929088   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/mapper/cryptswap1: 4023 MB, 4023386112 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 489 cylinders, total 7858176 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x97cb5510

Disk /dev/mapper/cryptswap1 doesn't contain a valid partition table

Disk /dev/sdb: 8004 MB, 8004304896 bytes
35 heads, 21 sectors/track, 21269 cylinders, total 15633408 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1              32    15633407     7816688    b  W95 FAT32
wbee@wbee-A780L3C:~$ 

```

Thanks,ajgreeny

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-04-24
You obviously must remove the encryption but you may need to find out how to do that by contacting Sandisk.
I have never used encryption on a disk so do not even know if it is possible to format a disk that is encrypted, but that would be my first choice, I think, in order to use it in ubuntu.

---

### Post by westie457 on 2015-04-24
Sandisk do provide instructions on their site to remove encryption. Depending on the version used decides which way to remove. [http://kb-eu.sandisk.com/app/answers/list/kw/remove%20encryption/sno/1/search/1/session/L3RpbWUvMTQyOTg2OTEyMC9zaWQveTI0aGpGa20%3D](http://kb-eu.sandisk.com/app/answers/list/kw/remove%20encryption/sno/1/search/1/session/L3RpbWUvMTQyOTg2OTEyMC9zaWQveTI0aGpGa20%3D)

All of their suggestions are for Windows.

Do not know if the same basic principles will apply to Non-Windows.

One way that definitely works is using Gparted to rewrite the partition table.

[U]Warning - Ensure you have chosen to work on the correct device

[/U]The below will wipe everything off a Hard drive or memory stick.

Gparted > Device > CreatePartitionTable...  Accept the default option and click Apply.
When that has finished select the unallocated > right-click > new. In the new window accept default size, format to which file-system you want ( ext4, NTFS, Fat32) agree to all prompts.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-04-24
Thanks for that info westie457.

I did not know whether it was possible to do any of that on a disk that was encrypted or if the encryption stopped any such activities being carried out.  It's good to know I was on the right lines with the suggestion.

---

### Post by wbee on 2015-04-26
Hello,

Thank you all for the help.

Using your advice as a road map of sorts, I opened "Disk Utility",*made sure the menu was set to the flashdrive, and followed the prompts.

I understand now what "volume" means in context. 

I was able to set up the flash drive to be encrypted AND password protected.

Experimenting,and with your help,I figured it out.

Again,thank you

-----------

wbee

---

