---
title: "One 22.04 system is slow to boot"
date: 2022-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-04-24
After upgrading to Xubuntu 22.04, I noticed that boot seemed to be a lot slower than under 20.04.  It didn't take long to find the cuplrit -
```
$ systemd-analyze blame
11.515s blueman-mechanism.service
 6.523s networkd-dispatcher.service
*[snipped]*
$ systemd-analyze critical-chain 
The time when unit became active or started is printed after the "@" character.
The time the unit took to start is printed after the "+" character.

graphical.target @18.382s
&#9492;&#9472;multi-user.target @18.381s
  &#9492;&#9472;[COLOR="#FF0000"]**blueman-mechanism.service @6.866s +11.515s**[/COLOR]
*[snipped]*

```

It appears [I'm not the only one with this issue]("https://github.com/blueman-project/blueman/issues/1589").  Unfortunately no ideas about a solution there.

This wasn't happening in 20.04.  Nor is it happening on two other 22.04 systems (177ms on another physical machine and 4.858s/185ms in VM, and it's not in critical-chain in any of these cases).

syslog and systemd journals confirm the slow startup time of blueman-mechanism, but I'm not seeing any messages that provide any insight into why.

How to diagnose and fix blueman-mechanism slowing down boot on only this one system?

---

### Post by him610 on 2022-04-24
> How to diagnose and fix blueman-mechanism slowing down boot on only this one system?
Maybe consider remove and reinstall.

FWIW, I am not experience slowdowns in bluetooth, but in other things...
```

$ systemd-analyze blame
20.681s snapd.service
18.447s logrotate.service
13.907s systemd-journal-flush.service
13.015s gpu-manager.service
 9.643s plymouth-quit-wait.service
 9.335s NetworkManager-wait-online.service
 9.000s dev-sda2.device
<<<<<<< snipped >>>>>>>

```

And, I don't even use snaps.

---

### Post by norobro on 2022-04-24
If you haven't tried this, there are a couple of troubleshooting tips on how to get debug info from blueman and bluez here: [https://github.com/blueman-project/blueman/wiki/Troubleshooting#debugging-blueman](https://github.com/blueman-project/blueman/wiki/Troubleshooting#debugging-blueman)

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-04-24
Thanks both for the replies.

First I tried getting the blueman debug logs.  Nothing informative, and blueman-applet started up fast as expected.

So then I tried uninstalling blueman, resetting blueman settings in dconf-editor, rebooting, reinstalling blueman, and rebooting again.  This did reduce (and maybe fix?*) blueman-mechanism start time.  However none of that had any noticeable effect on boot time.  Now systemd-analyze is blaming vboxdrv -
```
$ systemd-analyze blame
5.435s vboxdrv.service
4.482s networkd-dispatcher.service
4.005s udisks2.service
3.209s ModemManager.service
3.018s accounts-daemon.service
*[snipped]*
  82ms blueman-mechanism.service
*[snipped]*
$ systemd-analyze critical-chain 
The time when unit became active or started is printed after the "@" character.
The time the unit took to start is printed after the "+" character.

graphical.target @14.817s
&#9492;&#9472;multi-user.target @14.816s
  &#9492;&#9472;[COLOR="#FF0000"]**vboxautostart-service.service @12.390s +129ms**[/COLOR]
    &#9492;&#9472;[COLOR="#FF0000"]**vboxdrv.service @6.953s +5.435s**[/COLOR]
*[snipped]*
```

This source of the boot time discrepancy would make more sense - this is the only system that is a VirtualBox host, and there isn't yet any VirtualBox build for 22.04 host (just because I got it working anyway doesn't mean that was a good idea :P ).

I think I'll wait for Oracle to publish a real 22.04-supporting build of VirtualBox before pursuing this further.


* First look at [FONT=Courier New]systemd-analyze blame[/FONT] for this boot showed blueman-mechanism at 8 point something seconds.  Looking again when writing this post, it showed the above output, which is consistent with the boot without blueman installed.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-04-26
Actually, turns out the culprit was networkd-dispatcher, the *second* listing on my [FONT=Courier New]systemd-analyze blame[/FONT] outputs above - even though it was not mentioned in [FONT=Courier New]systemd-analyze critical-chain[/FONT] at all.  Purged networkd-dispatcher and now boot time is back on par with 20.04, despite blueman-mechanism continuing to take 8-10 seconds to start (no longer seeing the 11+ as noted in the OP).

I don't think I've lost any functionality doing this, networkd-dispatcher sounds specific to [FONT=Courier New]systemd-networkd[/FONT] which as far as I can tell is not used on this system, and nothing else was purged along with networkd-dispatcher.

Thanks again him610 for the uninstall/reinstall tip which did significantly reduce the blueman-mechanism startup time.

---

