---
title: "9.10 (Firefox) can't connect to internet"
date: 2009-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by WJason on 2009-11-09
On Sunday, Remix (running on Acer Aspire One with Atom processor) informed me that an upgrade (9.10) was available.  I clicked the button to download and install.  After a fresh boot, the first thing I tried was FireFox.  It kept "timing out" when I tried to connect to a couple of my favorites.  I could ping a couple of them, so decided to reboot and try again.  Then just odd things happened:  Half a page would load, then stop, then Firefox would "time out".  Or, the main page would load, but if I clicked any links, it would time out.  I tried a hardwire connection to my DSL modem and got similar results.  Similar behavior from Evolution:  It opens, shows me old email, but when trying to retrieve new mail it times out.
Did I get full-blown Ubuntu instead of the remix when I upgraded?  It has all the main categories in one list on the left side of the screen.  Seems to me there should be two lists on either side of the screen with half the categories in each.  I'm downloading the remix iso now and will try installing it when I get home.

---

### Post by WJason on 2009-11-12
Seriously?  No help?  :-|  So, I did a clean install of UNR 9.10.  I can ping lots of sites from a command line.  But when I try to access any sites (Dell, Microsoft, etc) Firefox just times out.

---

### Post by WJason on 2009-11-12
BTW, where can I get an iso of UNR 9.04?

---

### Post by WJason on 2009-11-19
Dang, no help at all.  :-(

---

### Post by Barry_IA on 2009-11-19
FWIW I have a similar problem with Firefox and Mythbuntu 9.10; difference is here FX sometimes takes forever, sometimes loads quickly, though much slower than Firefox on my Windows XP system.  

Quite frankly have not looked into the problem as more interested in the TV recording aspect than the on-line aspect.  Figured you might want to know at least one other person is having the same problem.

---

### Post by noex869 on 2009-11-19
you might want to try another browser and see if it is a firefox problem or a bigger problem.

For older releases try [http://releases.ubuntu.com/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/)

found this tread might want to give it a try> **lovinglinux said:**
> See **Solution** [*[COLOR=Red]**FOT005**[/COLOR]*] from the Troubleshooting section of the [**[COLOR=DarkRed]Firefox optimization and troubleshooting thread[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1193567&highlight=FOT005").

---

### Post by Normie26 on 2009-11-21
Had a similar problem when I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10. 
I disabled IPV6 and I can now access the net with firefox. Most of DNS servers are still IPv4, so it will speedup Web browsing with Firefox.  (I'm still having problems downloading and sending email with evolution though)

---

### Post by WJason on 2009-11-24
> **Normie26 said:**
> Had a similar problem when I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10. 
I disabled IPV6 and I can now access the net with firefox. Most of DNS servers are still IPv4, so it will speedup Web browsing with Firefox.  (I'm still having problems downloading and sending email with evolution though)

Interesting.  This might be it.  I was able to access [www.ubuntu.com](www.ubuntu.com) and it loaded the top of the page, very slowly, and then timed out.  How does one disable IPV6?

---

### Post by WJason on 2009-11-24
> **noex869 said:**
> you might want to try another browser and see if it is a firefox problem or a bigger problem.

For older releases try [http://releases.ubuntu.com/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/)

found this tread might want to give it a try

Thanks.  That URL seems to have releases of Ubuntu and not UNR.  :-(  I'll take a look at the thread you suggest.  LOTS of information there.

---

