---
title: "Very Strange Keyboard Problem"
date: 2019-09-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hellsbells2 on 2019-09-28
Hi,
I'm having a very peculiar problem.

Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS
Zotac Zbox ID-11 with 500Gb HDD and 2GB RAM 800MHz
Logitech K400 wireless keyboard with mousepad.

All has been working fine up until about a week ago. The mousepad on the keyboard works fine, but none of the keyboard keys work EXCEPT when I'm at the very first login screen. I'm able to enter my password to log-in, but after that I can't input anything using the keyboard, not in webpages or anywhere else within Ubuntu. If the computer goes to sleep, the keyboard doesn't work at the login screen either, UNLESS I click 'login as another user', then re-select the same user and then the keyboard works again for login but nothing else. 

I just tried a different wired keyboard and wired mouse and had exactly the same problem, the mouse worked fine, the keyboard only worked at the first login screen, so the issue must be with Ubuntu and not the hardware. 

Occasionaly I get a message: "System program problem detected, do you want to report the problem now?" I click report, but nothing much seems to happen.

I'd appreciate any suggestions.
HB

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-09-28
Your keyboard problem is a strange one.
Is your computer BIOS up to date?

"System program problem detected" is generated by Apport
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apport](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apport)
and could be a false report.  I would suggest resetting Apport (remove /var/crash), then if this message is regenerated you trully do have a system problem.
[https://itsfoss.com/how-to-fix-system-program-problem-detected-ubuntu/](https://itsfoss.com/how-to-fix-system-program-problem-detected-ubuntu/)
I personally do not use Apport and either disable it or remove it. 

Not a solution, but a start.  Hope it helps.

---

### Post by uRock on 2019-09-28
> **cruzer001 said:**
> Your keyboard problem is a strange one.
Is your computer BIOS up to date?

"System program problem detected" is generated by Apport
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apport](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apport)
and could be a false report.  I would suggest resetting Apport (remove /var/crash), then if this message is regenerated you trully do have a system problem.
[https://itsfoss.com/how-to-fix-system-program-problem-detected-ubuntu/](https://itsfoss.com/how-to-fix-system-program-problem-detected-ubuntu/)
I personally do not use Apport and either disable it or remove it. 

Not a solution, but a start.  Hope it helps.
The user has started a new thread stating the system is unbootable now. [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2428004](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2428004)

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-09-28
Tks

---

### Post by hellsbells2 on 2019-09-28
Hi, many thanks both for your replies. I'm also having massive internet  connection problems today, it seems like all the tech in my house is melting down at once. By the time I finish typing my reply, I've lost my connection again!
Yes I spent the last 7 hours trying to resolve a  complete inability to boot the pc, this has now been solved by disabling  AppArmor.
I'm not sure whether BIOS is up to date but I do know I've  been having problems updating the software as the internet connection  keeps dropping in the mmiddle of the download.
How can I disable Apport if I can't use the keyboard once I'm logged in? Can I get to a terminal before log-in?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-09-28
> **hellsbells2 said:**
> Can I get to a terminal before log-in?

You can get to a command line without doing the graphical login by using Ctrl-Alt-F2 to get to a TTY. They are numbered from 1-7 and the first 7 F keys will switch between them. Your graphical environment is probably on 1, although it was on 7 in earlier releases.

That is a good troubleshooting step anyway.

Since your keyboard issue seems to only be triggered when you've logged into your desktop environment, creating a new user will also be a useful troubleshooting step to see whether your issue is because of a particular setting in your desktop environment, or the desktop environment itself.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2019-09-28
my Xubuntu 18.04 bionic beaver LTS system has 1-6 as TTY and graphics at 7.  OP said "Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS" in #1.

---

### Post by hellsbells2 on 2019-09-29
Well, I've now bought a new hard drive (I was long overdue for an upgrade) and am in the process of installing Kubuntu. A bit drastic, but maybe that will fix it :D

---

