---
title: "11.04 Unity dash menu not showing search results / buttons not working"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SagaLhan on 2011-04-29
[CENTER][/CENTER]Hello there,

I've just upgraded to 11.04 and really like it so far, everything seems to be running smoothly and I had no issues apart from a broken Emerald which I removed (and installed compiz-gnome and then made gtk-window-decorator the default, which fixed Unity segfaulting on Emerald).

My problem now is that when I use the Unity dash to search for something, it takes a while to search and then finds nothing. I'm pretty sure I should have things like "text editor", "gimp", "update manager", so I would think this is some manner of bug.

In addition to that, the following buttons don't do anything if I click on them:

- Media Apps
- Internet Apps
- More Apps
- Find Files

I was hoping anyone could help me with this. I've searched the forums for these problems already but could not find anything related.

---

### Post by rowland on 2011-04-29
anything yet? i have the same problem...
the apps button and the folders button is missing too, from the launcher for me

---

### Post by pcdm79 on 2011-04-29
Same problem here, please anyone with a solution for this?

I've upgraded from 10.10 today, and unity is almost useless without the dash an app menu.

---

### Post by BenjaminKohl on 2011-04-30
I am experiencing the same problem.  I am missing the applications button and the files button from the sidebar and I can't get any activity from the shortcuts buttons that are in the main menu.  I had removed "zeitgeist" and reinstalled it but that didn't help matters.  I'm definitely bookmarking this thread and I hope someone offers a solution soon because I can't get anything to work anymore!

---

### Post by dazedx on 2011-04-30
Its happening to me too. I also uninstalled zeitgeist but haven't reinstalled it. It did work initially and now has just stopped.

---

### Post by iivanov on 2011-05-01
Exact same situation here!

---

### Post by BenjaminKohl on 2011-05-01
I found the fix!  If you go into the Ubuntu Software Center and search for "Unity", select the option that says "Interface designed for efficiency of space and interaction".  I then clicked "More Info" and saw under the "Add-ons" section that "Application place for unity" and "File place for unity" were unchecked.  They must have been removed when I was messing with zeitgeist.  I checked them once more, applied the changes, then logged out and logged back in.  Everything is working again! :D

EDIT: I should also mention that this fixed the issue of the main menu not listing any applications when you try to search.

---

### Post by iivanov on 2011-05-01
> **BenjaminKohl said:**
> I found the fix!  If you go into the Ubuntu Software Center and search for "Unity", select the option that says "Interface designed for efficiency of space and interaction".  I then clicked "More Info" and saw under the "Add-ons" section that "Application place for unity" and "File place for unity" were unchecked.  They must have been removed when I was messing with zeitgeist.  I checked them once more, applied the changes, then logged out and logged back in.  Everything is working again! :D

EDIT: I should also mention that this fixed the issue of the main menu not listing any applications when you try to search.
Worked for me as well!!! Thanx Benjamin!

---

### Post by SagaLhan on 2011-05-02
I can confirm this solved my problem, thank you!

Not sure why the packages didn't install automatically, maybe some dependancy issues. Either way, it works fine now. :)

Solved.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2011-05-02
You should understand that the Dash is not a simple search tool, it correlates your usage of files and applications to link to your search results. So if you use several files regularly at the same time for instance, searching for one will also return options for the others as well.

Obviously this does not work from the beginning as it has no data to go on, however it has, potentially, a great functionality - it justs needs you to use the system

---

### Post by Ken Kaniff on 2011-05-02
@ BenjaminKohl, thanks for the fix. Worked for me as far as restoring the shortcuts menu. The search isn't working but it may need time.

Btw, my problem was also caused by the removal of zeitgeist.

---

### Post by GenePayne on 2011-05-26
BenjaminKohl,

Another thanks for the fix, this worked for me. I had previously uninstalled zeitgeist, which caused the unity menu problem. I realized that removing zeitgeist screwed it up, but reinstalling zeitgeist again didn't fix things.

---

### Post by santsn on 2011-10-15
Thanks Benjamin, 
Following are the step-by-step procedure:
1) <ctrl>-<alt>-<t>  (launch terminal)
2) software-center
3) search for unity 
4) click on "More Info" of "Interface designed for efficiency of space and interaction"
5) In Add-ons section, select "Application lens for unity" & "File lens for unity"
    Click on "Apply Changes", Log-OFF & Log-ON.


> **BenjaminKohl said:**
> I found the fix!  If you go into the Ubuntu Software Center and search for "Unity", select the option that says "Interface designed for efficiency of space and interaction".  I then clicked "More Info" and saw under the "Add-ons" section that "Application place for unity" and "File place for unity" were unchecked.  They must have been removed when I was messing with zeitgeist.  I checked them once more, applied the changes, then logged out and logged back in.  Everything is working again! :D

EDIT: I should also mention that this fixed the issue of the main menu not listing any applications when you try to search.

---

### Post by santsn on 2011-10-15
[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=83478921](http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=83478921)

You must have uninstalled "zeitgeist", it is closly tied to unity. 
above procedure worked for me.

---

