---
title: "11.04 Brasero problem"
date: 2011-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ghion on 2011-07-04
Tried to create a data DVD the first time and another surprise. Very slow to write. On a dual boot system, it takes Windows 7 ten times less to do it.

When i tried to folllow the ideeas from forums, i couldn't find Brasero in /apps/ with gconftool or gconf-editor.

With Nautilus i get the same low speed.

---

### Post by nomko on 2011-07-05
What kind of burning device you have? And if you do a proper search here on this forum, you will find out there are more problems with Brasero. Best is to use K3B and else Gnomebaker.

---

### Post by p3aul on 2011-07-05
I use Brasero constantly after I create an ISO with DeVeDe. Never had any problems. I use 11.04
Paul

---

### Post by nomko on 2011-07-05
> **p3aul said:**
> I use Brasero constantly after I create an ISO with DeVeDe. Never had any problems. I use 11.04
Paul
 
Consider yourself lucky. Normally there's a lot of problems with Brasero. I'm using Ubuntu since version 7.04 and since 7.04 the first thing i do is removing Brasero and installing K3B. Never had any isuues with K3B

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-05
Hi, you can go in and change the speed but it is better if you let brasero decide the speed for its self, if you increase it you might have corruption in the data.

---

### Post by Alwimo on 2011-07-05
Brasero might be checking the file's integrity, which adds a lot to how long it takes.

You can disable that through Edit -> Plugins.

---

### Post by Ghion on 2011-07-05
Right now my main concern is why i cannot find it in /apps/ with gconftool or gconf-editor.

---

