---
title: "9.10 graphics don't seem to work"
date: 2009-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by waterborne on 2009-11-12
I upgraded my desktop from the previous version of Ubuntu to 9.10 last night. After the restart I logged in and everything worked fine. However, this afternoon when I turned my computer on there was an issue with the graphics. I am running a nVidia graphics card with two monitors. After the splash screen nVidia shows up on both monitors and then they go black with a message box that says "Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode: Your screen, graphics card, and input device settings could not be detected correctly. You will need to configure these yourself."

My question is: what do I do? I don't know enough about Ubuntu to know where to start. I suppose I will need to edit some config files but I don't know what I would change. Thanks in advance.

Jeff

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-12
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

Tweak it to your satisfaction, then click "Save to X configuration file".

No idea why it did this, but maybe you booted with the monitors off?

---

### Post by waterborne on 2009-11-12
I had already tried sudo nvidia-settings but it said I wasn't using the command correctly. And I couldn't figure out from the documentation what I needed to do. Anyways, after the error message it displayed an option box and one of the options was to reconfigure the graphics settings so I clicked that and then rebooted from the command line. That seemed to fix the problem; however, I tried that before I posted the original question and it didn't do anything so I guess the second time was the charm. Thanks for the fast response.

---

### Post by dinw3 on 2010-01-03
> **Giblet5 said:**
> ```
sudo nvidia-settings
```Tweak it to your satisfaction, then click &quot;Save to X configuration file&quot;.

No idea why it did this, but maybe you booted with the monitors off?

 i got this  sudo: nvidia-settings: command not found

---

### Post by pedro_orange on 2010-01-04
Do you have nvidia-settings installed? :P

---

