---
title: "8.10 issues and workarounds"
date: 2009-01-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hakimio on 2009-01-12
Just wanted to share my experience with ubuntu 8.10, which might be helpful to some other ubuntu 8.10 users.

**_[SIZE="3"]Kernel[/SIZE]_**
I was using my custom kernel with earlier ubuntu versions, but this time I had to try the current official kernel, because of some issues with nvidia driver. So, I installed it, tried to boot and... was greeted with busybox shell. Anyway, at least the error message was quite clear - suggested to change "hda" to "sda". So how to do that? Firstly just to boot to ubuntu, you could change boot parameters to read root=/dev/sda instead of root=/dev/hda (if there is some number identifying the partition, like /dev/hda3, it should be left the same). Now, when you boot to ubuntu here is how to make the changes permanent:
[LIST=1][*]Open /boot/grub/menu.lst:
```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```
[*]Go to the end of the document, find a line which looks like: 
```
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-9-generic root=/dev/hda3 ro splash
```
[*]Just make the same changes you made earlier - change hda to sda.
[/LIST]
Q: If I am still using PATA (not SATA) disk, why is it that I have to rename hda to sda?
A: It's ubuntu bug. When using same version custom build kernel this doesn't happen,

_**[SIZE="3"]Gnome session manager[/SIZE]**_
This is quite serious and common issue - gnome-session manager is [_BROKEN_](http://np237.livejournal.com/22014.html) in Gnome 2.24 (YES, they released STABLE gnome version with COMPLETELY BROKEN session manager)!!! Because of that:
[LIST=1]
[*]On log out/shut down all applications are just KILLED and when started again they report that they have unexpectedly crashed!
[*]Read mail is not marked and similar changes are not recorded.
[*]There is no NORMAL way to get rid of the gnome panel (only hide it).
[/LIST]
To solve that I just replaced gnome session manager with XFCE session manager. You can still use nautilus and even gnome-panel (though I personally prefer XFCE panel) with xfce session manager. Here is how to do that:
[LIST=1]
[*]install xfce:
```
sudo apt-get install xfce4
```
[*]Configure xfce not to use thunar as desktop manager. For this open XFCE settings manager:
```
xfce-setting-show
```
Go to Desktop and remove the tick from "Allow xfce to manage the desktop" option
[*]Edit xsession script:
```
gedit ~/.xsession
```
[*]Add:
```
nautilus -n &
exec xfce4-session

```and save the file.
[*]Next time before logging in just choose "Run Xclient script".
[/LIST]
PS: if you want gnome-panel instead of xfce-panel, just delete all xfce panels, open xfce autostart editor:
```
xfce4-autostart-editor
```
and add gnome-panel to the list.

_**[SIZE="3"]nautilus[/SIZE]**_
There is a bug in nautilus because of which scrollbar disappears when switching between multiple tabs. To fix this bug [_enable proposed_](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/EnableProposed) repository and upgrade nautilus.

**_[SIZE="3"]compiz[/SIZE]_**
There are actually few problems with compiz:
[LIST=1]
[*]Backports maintainer STILL (the bug is also present in ubuntu 7.10) didn't fix compiz wrapper! To fix it do the following:
[LIST=1]
[*]Open compiz wrapper:
```
sudo gedit /usr/bin/compiz
```
[*]Replace 
```
COMPIZ_BIN_PATH="/usr/local/bin/" # For window decorators and compiz
```
with
```
COMPIZ_BIN_PATH="/usr/bin/" # For window decorators and compiz
```
and
```
COMPIZ_NAME="compiz" # Final name for compiz (compiz.real) 
```
with
```
COMPIZ_NAME="compiz.real" # Final name for compiz (compiz.real) 
```
[/LIST]
[*]compiz-fusion-plugins-unsupported package is BROKEN. Use [_this_](http://forum.compiz-fusion.org/showthread.php?t=10273) guide to install the missing plugins.
[*]Start-up of compiz still causes freezes and it seems to take longer than ever to start. Solution: ???
[/LIST]

**_[SIZE="3"]keytouch[/SIZE]_**
It seems _broken_ evdev broke keytouch in this Ubuntu version. Some of the keys are assigned incorrectly and some don't work at all. There are few ways to deal with this one:
[LIST=1]
[*] [_Recommended_] blacklist evdev. Here are the steps needed to do that:
[LIST=1]
[*]Open /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist:
```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```
[*]Add to the bottom of the file:
```
blacklist evdev
```
[*]Open /etc/X11/xorg.conf:
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
[*]Uncomment lines in italic (or add everything if your xorg.conf doesn't have the sections):
```
Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
[I]    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"[/I]
EndSection
```
```
[I]Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection[/I]
```
```
[I]Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection[/I]
```
[*]Save and restart.
[/LIST]
[*][_For advanced users_] If for some reason you need evdev,  use [_this_](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=12159) guide to configure additional keys. 
PS: imho it's better to use dmesg | tail instead of plain dmesg as this way you'll get only the last ten lines.
[/LIST]

**_[SIZE="3"]pulse audio[/SIZE]_**
I wonder if anyone would mind if I called this software just a total piece of crap, the worst choice of software in whole ubuntu history. Anyway, the thing was causing high cpu usage for me, so I just [_removed_](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PulseAudio#PulseAudio%20Removal) it.

**_[SIZE="3"]Screenlets[/SIZE]_**
Some screenlet settings are not remembered. Here are the reasons:

[LIST=1]
[*]Latest version of screenlets has "default" config for screenlets which for some reasons is overriding all screenlets settings.
[*]Screenlets daemon is buggy and for some reason after quitting screenlets it still leaves some temp files in /tmp which make it think the screenlet is still active.
[/LIST]
Here is the solution:
[LIST=1]

[*]Edit the main configuration file and make it read-only:
```
gedit ~/.screenlets/config.ini
chmod 444 ~/.screenlets/config.ini
```
[*]Edit settings file for the misbehaving screenlet. i.e. Pager screenlet:
```
gedit ~/.config/Screenlets/Pager/default/Pager1.ini
```
...and make the config file read-only:
```
chmod 444 ~/.config/Screenlets/Pager/default/Pager1.ini
```
[*]Reboot as only then temporary screenlet session files will be cleared.
[/LIST]
If the solution mentioned above, doesn't help, some custom settings can be added in theme.conf, which will override default config. The file should be located in SomeScreenlet/themes/default/ directory. Here is an example of theme.conf file contents:
```

[Theme]
name	= default
author	= Nick Caccamisi
version	= 0.1
info	= Default theme

[Options]
x=0
y=30

```

**_[SIZE="3"]IPv6[/SIZE]_**
IPv6 is another currently useless thing causing lag during log in and general network lag.
Here is how to get rid of the beast:
[LIST=1]
[*]Blacklist it by opening /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist:
```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```
and adding:
```
blacklist ipv6
```
to the end of the file.
[*]Remove any traces of it by opening /etc/hosts:
```
sudo gedit /etc/hosts
```
deleting:
```
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts
```
[/LIST]
and saving the file. BTW, IPv6 is blacklisted by default in Linux Mint.

---

