---
title: "18.04 LTS trackpad &quot;Tap to Click&quot; not working"
date: 2018-07-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by isolated-thinker on 2018-07-21
Greetings!

I performed a fresh install of 18.04 LTS on my laptop from 16.04 LTS

Not liking the desktop environment, I installed the Unity desktop environment to make it function more like 16.04 LTS

Now, I am not able to get the "Tap to Click" feature to work on my trackpad.

My lap is a Dell Vostro 2420.

To the best of my knowledge, all currently available updates are installed. I have also tried Gnome Tweaks with no result. No "Tap to Click" featues are available in the standard settings either.

This is most annoying, and any help is more than welcome!
Thank you!!!

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2018-07-22
> **isolated-thinker said:**
> Not liking the desktop environment, I installed the Unity desktop environment to make it function more like 16.04 LTS
I think you need to install the Synaptics Touchpad driver which is something that GNOME Shell doesn't need.
```
sudo apt install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics
```
And then reboot your PC. Let us know if it doesn't work

---

### Post by isolated-thinker on 2018-07-22
> **PaulW2U said:**
> I think you need to install the Synaptics Touchpad driver which is something that GNOME Shell doesn't need.
```
sudo apt install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics
```
And then reboot your PC. Let us know if it doesn't work

That did the trick!!!

Thank you so much! :D

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2018-07-22
> **isolated-thinker said:**
> That did the trick!!!
Excellent!

Just be aware that should you decide to revert to GNOME Shell then your mouse and touchpad settings may not work as expected and you may need to remove that package.

---

### Post by devendra17 on 2018-11-28
This saved my day

Thanks.....

---

### Post by jhusch on 2019-04-06
Dell XPS 13, 9343 Ubuntu 18.04 mit Unity

Unfortunately for my configuration this did not work.

Workaround:
command line:

$ xinput set-prop 13 308 1

sets the touchpad tap as enabled

check with 
$ xinput list-props 13

As this is not permanent you have to do it every time you restart or write a script and start it with ubuntu

---

### Post by baobab332 on 2019-12-10
i did it and lost my keyboard ! impossible to log-in...
i had to boot in recovery mode and here is what saved me :
```
sudo apt install xserver-xorg-input-all
```

---

