---
title: "9.04 and Flash"
date: 2009-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2009-11-17
Hi! I had problems upgrading from 8.10 to 9.04 (don't ask, I'm a newbie!) and had to just install 9.04 as a new distro. Now when I attempt to open some programmes I am told to download a flash upgrade (!) I have downloaded the Flash Linux.tar.gz onto the desktop (I hope that is the correct one) how do I get it to start? I know I have to go into terminal but I don't know the commands to open the programme to load it. Can anyone help?
Thanks

---

### Post by nerdy_kid on 2009-11-17
[http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/](http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/)

select ubuntu 8.04 from drop-down...
download
install!

---

### Post by Cuddles McKitten on 2009-11-17
If you're running 32 bit Ubuntu, then you ought to be able to install Flash from either Synaptic or Add/Remove Programs.

For future reference, you can untar/unzip files graphically by double clicking them.

---

### Post by fluffman86 on 2009-11-17
Before you get all settled in with 9.04, you might want to consider going ahead and wiping that out and reinstalling with 9.10.  For most people, it boots a lot faster and includes a new filesystem by default, which makes things run a lot faster (for most people, YMMV).

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-17
You should be able to install the flash player along with all the other codecs, by entering:
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

Or if you don't want to open the terminal, go System -> Administration -> Synaptic Package Manager, search for "ubuntu-restricted-extras", mark it for installation and click apply.

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2009-12-10
> **Zoot7 said:**
> You should be able to install the flash player along with all the other codecs, by entering:
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

Or if you don't want to open the terminal, go System -> Administration -> Synaptic Package Manager, search for "ubuntu-restricted-extras", mark it for installation and click apply.
Thank you everyone. Sorry I'm a bit late with the thanks. Haven't been too well

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-12-10
No worries. What are the forums for? ;)

---

