---
title: "qtsim"
date: 2007-03-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by of_darkness on 2007-03-18
Hi im trying to compile qtsim a linux post of the ogame calulator speedsim

but i cant get i 2 work i have all qt libs botw normal n debugg and qmake installed as req. by the instaling instruktions .. > === How to build and install QtSim ===

I will assume that you meet the prerequisites stated in README.

=== Automatic Install ===

We've provided you with an install script which should automatically install
QtSim into '~/qtsim/'. Just execute at the shell
$ ./install

Once install finished, read the output messages and see if everything is okay.
If not, please read the .log files in order to find out errors and visit the
at [http://forum.speedsim.net](http://forum.speedsim.net).

Note that since the SpeedKernel library is statically
linked, you will not have to keep it.

For additional languages please visit [http://forum.speedsim.net](http://forum.speedsim.net) and put the
files you find there into '~/.qtsim/lang'.

Custom css-files for the combat report / best/worse-case go into

[http://www.speedsim.net/forum/viewtopic.php?t=398&sid=14e7241eefd23a835a8dd8ab949b1401](http://www.speedsim.net/forum/viewtopic.php?t=398&sid=14e7241eefd23a835a8dd8ab949b1401)

what i get when running ./install
is:

> Project MESSAGE: Qt version:
Project MESSAGE: Qt is installed in /usr
QtSim.pro:7: Unknown test function: warning
Project MESSAGE: ----------------------------------------------------
QtSim.pro:24: Unknown test function: warning
QtSim.pro:25: Unknown test function: warning
QtSim.pro:26: Parse Error ('break here')
Error processing project file: /home/blutengel/speedsim/qtsim/QtSim.pro
make: *** Inga mål angavs och ingen makefil hittades.  Stannar.
  

---

### Post by GameZelda on 2007-04-15
I was having the same problem that you. I solved it by simply running "qmake-qt4", "make", and "make install" after running "./install" and giving me the error. (Obviously whit libqt4-dev and libqt4-debug installed)

---

### Post by of_darkness on 2007-04-15
> **GameZelda said:**
> I was having the same problem that you. I solved it by simply running "qmake-qt4", "make", and "make install" after running "./install" and giving me the error. (Obviously whit libqt4-dev and libqt4-debug installed)

Well i have all qt i could find in synptic just 2 be on the safe side n yeas all qt4.

Did you mean that i should runt the install script first then qmake-qt4 then make  and last make installl?

> [Installing in '/home/blutengel/qtsim/'
make: *** no targets vhere given and no makefile vhere found. Stopping (inga mål angavs och ingen makefil hittades.  Stannar.)
make: *** no targets vhere given and no makefile vhere found. Stopping (Inga mål angavs och ingen makefil hittades.  Stannar.)
   Done.
/QUOTE] thats the install error  then i started qmake-qt4 
[QUOTE]blutengel@Soul-Of-Ice:~/qtsim/qtsim$ qmake-qt4
Project MESSAGE: You are running linux/unix
Project MESSAGE: Qt version: 4.2.0
Project MESSAGE: Qt is installed in /usr
Project WARNING: if any of this statements are false, do not run make
Project MESSAGE: ----------------------------------------------------
Project WARNING: libSpeedKernel.a NOT FOUND in ../SpeedKernel/
Project WARNING: did you use 'qmake SPEEDKERNEL_DIR=../SpeedKernel/' ?
/home/blutengel/qtsim/qtsim/QtSim.pro:26: Parse Error ('break here')
/home/blutengel/qtsim/qtsim/QtSim.pro:26: Unterminated conditional block at end of file
Error processing project file: /home/blutengel/qtsim/qtsim/QtSim.pro
 then i run make and it gave the same errors as install did thats it dosent find a make file.. n naturly make install says it hasent anything todo..
then i tried > blutengel@Soul-Of-Ice:~/qtsim/qtsim$ qmake-qt4 /home/blutengel/qtsim/SpeedKernel/
Error processing project file: /home/blutengel/qtsim/SpeedKernel/
blutengel@Soul-Of-Ice:~/qtsim/qtsim$ make
g++  -o SpeedKernel     -L/usr/share/qt3/lib -L/usr/X11R6/lib -lqt-mt -lXext -lX11 -lm -lpthread
/usr/lib/gcc/i486-linux-gnu/4.1.2/../../../../lib/crt1.o: In function `_start':
(.text+0x18): undefined reference to `main'
collect2: ld returned 1 exit status
make: *** [SpeedKernel] Fel 1
 i looked at the make file n it says its compiled by qt3..> Makefile for building: SpeedKernel
# Generated by qmake (1.07a) (Qt 3.3.6) on: Sun Apr 15 11:43:49 2007
well im also trying to change in the instal script 2 use qmake-qt4.. well worth i try.. but no luck.. i have old qt3 n so installd 2 because of some programs that depends on it.. can that be a problem? or isit the script that is badly written..

---

### Post by GameZelda on 2007-04-19
Did you have the SpeedKernel folder in the anterior directory???????

And remember to run install before using qmake-qt4

---

### Post by of_darkness on 2007-04-19
> **GameZelda said:**
> Did you have the SpeedKernel folder in the anterior directory???????

And remember to run install before using qmake-qt4

I have tried 2 have them downloaded directly 2 home by cvs ,eg runnig cvs comand from my 'home directory'  and also 2 a folder in my 'home' directory : /home/blutengel/sim/
but i found that the instal script looks in 'home' for speedkernel directory 
And as you se in my erlier post that i have tried evry way that i could think of...

---

