---
title: "9.04 on Wubi, better than the LiveCD"
date: 2009-08-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ZaM0 on 2009-08-06
My first topic: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1224175](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1224175)

Ok, I decided to install Ubuntu on my hard drive and found Wubi would be the best way to bug around with it without much of trouble. If I manage to get it working fine I will migrate to a dedicated partition.

At first it was the same - when I opened any program, the X got crazy, just kept restarting, that program closed or remained opened just for few seconds. Random stuff... I noticed that I was able to access all the websites through Firefox. Then I tried to enable the desktop effects and a message appeared that they couldn't be enabled and the desktop froze. Keyboard was locked up and I did the SysReq magic thing. 

And then, on the next boot, everything was alright. I mean, yep, absolutely stable :O But I was able to access only google.com from Firefox. I don't know, could be the update manager messing up somehow? 

Ok, Firefox. Tried changing the MTU, but no effect. I'm not behind a router. It seems there are many topics about that, but no clear solution. 

And about Compiz again - I opened "Hardware Drivers", but there was nothing on the list.

Here are my specs again: 
A31G v1.0
Sempron 3300+ 64
2x512 MB RAM DDR-400
NVidia GeForce 7300LE 384MB

---

### Post by sandy8925 on 2009-08-06
Did you install drivers for the Nvidia graphics card ? You should if you want to use Compiz. There should be an Restricted Hardware icon at the top somewhere.Else it's in the  System -> Administration menu.

---

### Post by ZaM0 on 2009-08-06
They should be listed in the Hardware Drivers I think? (System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers)
These fields are empty on my system: [[IMG]http://img329.imageshack.us/img329/6782/hardware11.th.png[/IMG]](http://img329.imageshack.us/i/hardware11.png/)

Source: [http://techreviews.in/installing-restricted-hardware-graphic-drivers-on-ubuntu-jaunty-how-to/](http://techreviews.in/installing-restricted-hardware-graphic-drivers-on-ubuntu-jaunty-how-to/)

---

### Post by ZaM0 on 2009-08-06
Ok, seems that MTU with the setting of 1456 works just fine. I can open everything with Firefox now. Synaptic and upgrade manager are working ok too. Looks like this wasn't the problem.

I installed the NVidia 173 drivers and all's fine, Compiz is running sweet. And the Flash performance is better than in Vista!xD

Just one thing remained - those random freezes and the X restarts. It's really strange - when I power up Ubuntu, sometimes it's all perfectly stable (till I shutdown and start it again), sometimes it would freeze from the first opened application.

Any tips would be appreciated:)
(Excuse my bad English)

---

### Post by ZaM0 on 2009-08-06
After installing the updates, X crashes and I now keep getting on random boots "Buffer I/O error" in the terminal, few seconds after I open an application. I did a chkdsk on my NTFS partition, where Ubuntu is installed and found no errors.

The console:
[[IMG]http://img142.imageshack.us/img142/9671/s8302712z.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img142.imageshack.us/i/s8302712z.jpg/)

---

### Post by ZaM0 on 2009-08-06
These lockups are really strange... I kept the system up for 4-5 hours, while doing some heavy multitasking and it worked completely stable. Once I booted and just opened up the calculator and X crashed. Shouldn't it be a problem in the initialization? Never mind, I will try to install it on my HD.

Made a new topic

---

