---
title: "18.04 System error, or program crash but no Details"
date: 2021-08-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Eanruig on 2021-08-30
Lubuntu 18.04 64amd on an hp Pavilion zv6000 laptop. 

When an error box comes up - system error, or program crash - Options are usually Report, Ignore. Left side of the box is "Details". A click on Details flashes an error report too fast to read, nor can I survey the error messages which, I suppose, are intended to be helpful. Same problem after a re-installation. Suggestions for an approach to the annoyance will be appreciated.

Eanruig

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2021-08-30
> **Eanruig said:**
> Suggestions for an approach to the annoyance will be appreciated.
Eanruig

"This Sybil, this Basil, this smack on head."

Perhaps you should take the time to describe this more detailed, Just a suggestion,

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-08-30
Are you aware that flavors of Ubuntu only come with three years of supported life (five years applies to Ubuntu Desktop, Ubuntu Server but not flavors), so you're asking about a release that is now EOL.

- [https://fridge.ubuntu.com/2020/08/14/ubuntu-18-04-5-lts-released/](https://fridge.ubuntu.com/2020/08/14/ubuntu-18-04-5-lts-released/)
- [https://lubuntu.me/bionic-5-released/](https://lubuntu.me/bionic-5-released/)
- [https://lubuntu.me/bionic-eol/](https://lubuntu.me/bionic-eol/)

A Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter
- [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue681#Lubuntu_18.04_LTS_End_of_Life_and_Current_Support_Statuses](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue681#Lubuntu_18.04_LTS_End_of_Life_and_Current_Support_Statuses)
(or on this forum see [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2461582](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2461582)) highlighted flavors are now EOL.\

(*i386* users don't have capacity to upgrade as only 18.10 & 19.04 were available in *i386* both of which are now EOL, but you've said you're using *amd64* which still has options).

---

### Post by Eanruig on 2021-09-07
Perhaps a concrete example will help. Imagine an error window.
I suspect you have seen them.

[<Splot> ......................... Ubuntu ................................ -+X]
[ Sorry, Ubuntu 18.04 has experienced an internal error.   ]
[......................Send problem report to the developers........]
[ If you notice further problems, try restarting the computer]
[ -----[ ] Remember this in future.   ]
[ -----[ ] Ignore future problems of this type   ]

[ Show Details]       [Don't Send]  [Send]      ]
__________________________________________

Click on either Send or Don't Send - Error window disappears.

Click on Show Details - Error window disappears, replaced by a second window, I 
suppose with Details about the (in this example) internal error. This second
window is not displayed long enough to read its contents. It lasts 1/4 to 1/2 second,
then disappears. I would like to read what is in that  window.

It is true that lubuntu 18.04 reached EOL on 30-Apr-2021. However, the error report window specifically
states that Ubuntu has experienced a system error. If the error is really in lubuntu only, and so comes under
the existing EOL, the error report should state that fact. I have no means of knowing that the error is unique 
to lubuntu, and have no grounds for supposing that it must fall under the EOL decree.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-09-07
You can file a bug report, or explore the issue itself to work out where/what applies.

My prior response was really just a PASTE; the final line in *italics* and inside a bracket the only non-paste part of it.

A look in /var/crash will show what problem you have. eg. for my own system (Lubuntu *impish*) I see the following

```
guiverc@d960-ubu2:~/uwn/issues/699$   ls -la /var/crash
total 6096
drwxrwsrwt  2 root    whoopsie    4096 Sep  7 07:50 .
drwxr-xr-x 16 root    root        4096 Nov 29  2018 ..
-rw-r-----  1 daemon  whoopsie   24116 Sep  7 07:50 _usr_bin_debsecan.1.crash
```

where a `ubuntu-bug ubuntu-bug /var/crash/_usr_bin_debsecan.1.crash` will submit a report (okay i got an error that permission was denied; so I added a `sudo` in front of the ubuntu-bug command.. and a 

> "*Sorry Ubuntu 21.10 has experienced an internal error*"

and I let it continue; in my example nothing happens, and there the filename was not renamed to include ".uploaded" at the end (the usual indication that the bug report was filed, that rename ensures no secondary message re-appears).

The first part of the crash file tells me it's from the `debsecan` package; which isn't really a Ubuntu package anyway (applies to upstream Debian more than Ubuntu; so reporting is likely impossible in this case).

You can just remove the .crash files in /var/crash/ and the internal error messages will disappear. The filename of the .crash file itself tells you what package is involved (*[https://packages.ubuntu.com/impish/debsecan](https://packages.ubuntu.com/impish/debsecan) is my example; I'm surprised it's installed on this box - but I must have for some query at some time in the past*) etc.

I'd suggest using `ubuntu-support-status` if you want confirmation on your actual install as to support/security-status of your installed system. You can list packages that are both patched/supported (ie. security fixes still being made), or unsupported; and I'll refer you to 

[https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/lubuntu-18-04-lts-end-of-life-30-april-2021/2466/]("https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/lubuntu-18-04-lts-end-of-life-30-april-2021/2466/7")5

for some more details.  

I personally wish I'd done a better job of writing up `ubuntu-support-status`; but I'd referred to that package so often in the *final* days of Lubuntu 16.04 & 18.04 I felt like I'd said it all before (*I had here, there & everywhere except collecting everything in the one place*).  Alas by the time I came to that conclusion, I could no longer get a before image (having upgraded any 18.04 box I used in pre-*flavor* EOL; and the one box I still have running 18.04 I didn't use as an example; it's x86/32-bit only).

Also note the `ubuntu-support-status` tool is now gone; later releases use `ubuntu-security-status` that is different (I personally preferred `ubuntu-support-status` but many readers misread it's results leading to the change).

If you file the bug report, even if it's a Lubuntu package, it likely won't be closed until 18.04 reaches EOL of it's *standard support* in 2023-April anyway; it'll likely just be ignored if it's a 'universe' package until then as fixes are only being performed on 'main' repository packages. As already stated, the filename of the .crash file gives package clues.

---

### Post by Eanruig on 2021-09-08
Thanks for the information. I hope to apply some of what you have mentioned. 

I did create a lubuntu 20.04 USB stick, but based on some reviews I have read, 
I am hesitant to install it.

I will see what comes about.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-09-08
If you have any questions about Lubuntu 20.04 LTS (or in fact any Lubuntu system, even other alternatives), I'll happily give my opinion.

You're also welcome to ask my opinion as end-user, with my *Lubuntu* hat on, or just as a generic GNU/Linux user (*I don't just use Ubuntu based systems, though I'm skewed somewhat heavily Debian/Ubuntu though it's not all of what I use*)

The big change to me in LXDE (using *deprecated *GTK2 toolkit/libraries) was the toolkit change itself (ie. to Qt5).  Qt5 is in my experience far lighter than GTK3 (just as PCMan or the LXDE developer *(from which `pcmanfm` got it's name; it handles the desktop itself as well as being a file-manager)* blogged about). I felt Lubuntu 18.10 & 19.04 performed extremely well on pentium M (*& thus underpowered*) laptops, esp. when compared with GTK3 MATE or XFCE as it continued it's porting from GTK2 to GTK3  (I'd noticed MATE getting heavy on these laptops from 16.04 as it was first to port from GTK2 to GTK3).

As I tested using laptops with only 1GB of RAM, that meant I needed to switch apps (*or waste the limited RAM I had*) thus my noticing the toolkit change the most.  On my primary desktop (a 2009 dell) I didn't care, as it has 8GB of RAM.


LXDE is still receiving updates (*few for code; mostly just translations*) as I've noted packages update in my Debian *Bookworm* system since the freeze ended (*ie. Bullseye's release; it's not a LXDE system, but LXDE is one of 8+ desktops installed*).  LXDE can still be used on modern Ubuntu systems; it's just not a Lubuntu system, but Ubuntu with LXDE.  LXDE is now straight from upstream Debian (where `openbox` is **not** the WM of choice, but it can still be used). But using it does mean it's using *deprecated* code (GTK *development* is all GTK4, *maintenance* performed only on GTK3; LXDE being *deprecated GTK2*)

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2021-09-08
maybe you can try to re-install Lubuntu 18.04.5 and see if the problem persists.  if it does, you could try Lubuntu 20.04 or even Ubuntu (if it fits) 20.04 or 18.04.5 just to run as a test with the intent to go back when resolved.

i, too, am running an EOL "flavor" (Xubuntu).  my idea (included in my developing plans for the next Xubuntu) is to have a dual boot system with the same version of "chocolate" Xubuntu and "vanilla" Ubuntu ready to go.  Ubuntu runs on my laptop.  the question is whether it runs on your hardware.  maybe your reason to use Lubuntu is that it uses less real memory.  it could run and just not be as fast for you or run the setup you have.  this lets me go try "vanilla" if i run into some system problem with "chocolate".  if the problem persists then i can report it as a "vanilla" problem before the later EOL.  i'm not there, yet, but that is my plan as i work on moving all my customizations up to the next Xubuntu.  i am working on the move to 20.04 but looking ahead to 22.04 (so i am automating my changes as i go).

of course, be sure you have a *tested* backup, or two, or three, of _all your data_ like i do with 3x _external USB hard drive_s.  these days they are available in sizes up to 4TB.  but my 3x 2TB units will do me fine for a while.

---

