---
title: "8.04 ssh tunnel vnc desktop crash"
date: 2008-06-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by twigusa on 2008-06-03
Hi,

I'm a relative newbie to Ubuntu. I've installed it via wubi and I'm very happy with what I've been able to achieve - most of the issues I've had have been resolvable. 

Unfortunately, I'm having a frustrating issue with remote access.

I have set up ssh tunnelling to my home machine and then use VNC to control the desktop. This works fine initially. However, if I leave the ssh tunnel / vnc connection open and idle it completely crashes my machine within 30 mins - hour (rough guess - it's not easy to tell).

As I'm a newcomer, I'm not sure how to check logs etc. but I did look at /var/log/messages but couldn't find anything obvious.

When the machine crashes it totally loses all network access and the screen is blank and keyboard / mouse is unresponsive. I have to reboot to get it to work again.

Also, it may possibly have something to do with my motherboard and ACPI which I've had to mess around with to get working due to the following error:

MP-BIOS: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC

My current boot has noapic irqpoll acpi_skip_timer_override options but I've tried various combinations.

Finally, I thought it may be an issue when the power management kicked in and turned the screen off so I've set that to never but that doesn't help.

Any ideas greatly appreciated or even pointers as to where to look next.

UPDATE: This only seems to happen when I have the vnc connection up. If I leave the ssh tunnel connected, there is no crash.

Thanks,
Twig.

---

### Post by twigusa on 2008-06-04
Hi,

I've done a bit more digging and there are lots of reports of issues with compiz and vnc (both of which apply to my situation). 

I will try disabling compiz and see if the problem is reproducible.

Twig.

---

### Post by twigusa on 2008-06-04
OK. This is definitely an issue with VNC and having compiz enabled as it doesn't crash without.

Does this warrant a bug report and if so, how do I go about it?

Twig.

---

