---
title: "11.10 change refresh rate"
date: 2011-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jjt on 2011-12-30
My first experience of 11.10 - I am an avid Ubuntu user, and reasonably practiced in using terminal, etc. No expert, but a good bit better than the "average" user.

Fresh install of 11.10.
My monitor is old and has always had problems with the correct refresh rate being detected in Ubuntu. It detects several refresh rates, 60,68,70,75Hz. In fact, only 75Hz works. In previous versions, I simply had to go to System, Preferences, Monitor and choose the correct refresh rate.

Someone in their wisdom has removed this function from 11.10.

I search Google.

I am advised to use the command "xrandr -r 75". Brilliant, except the changes last only until I log out or restart.

Others advise installing CCSM and changing it there. This seems to have no effect, and there are no coherent instructions for the "average" user.

This is, quite frankly, ridiculous. I now have tried several methods, the combination of which has totally messed up my fresh install. The result: 3 hours spent on 11.10 and I can't even look at the screen properly and need to reinstall. Next we know, support for PS2 mice and keyboards will be removed as "everyone uses USB nowadays". What a farce!

Can anyone help? :confused:

---

### Post by chipbuster on 2011-12-30
I think you need to write the changes into the X windows system.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)

Not sure if that'll fix your problem, but it looks like the worst you can do right now is to break your broken system :\

---

