---
title: "2.5 gb space left??? WHAT"
date: 2009-07-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bmtlol on 2009-07-03
When I tried to install the updates for ubuntu linux after installing it not to long ago, it said I need to have 356mb of space or something like that, then I checked my disk usage and it said 92%....

I dont know if I looked at the chart wrong or not but it said 92%, 2.5gb. Im confused >_<, because, when I looked at my disk usage on windows, I have 120gb free space.

---

### Post by bmtlol on 2009-07-03
"The upgrade needs 365M free space on '/' 
Please free at least an additional 330M of disk space on '/'
Empty your trash or remove temporary packages of
former installations using "sudo apt-get clean"

Im running Ubuntu Linux on Dual-boot alongside WindowsXP.

---

### Post by synapsys on 2009-07-03
> **bmtlol said:**
> 
Empty your trash or remove temporary packages of
former installations using "sudo apt-get clean"


also

Uninstall any programs you don't need.
Clear out old video/music files.

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-07-03
post the output of
```
df -h
```and also, use these commands to free up some space
```
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoclean
```

---

### Post by findit on 2009-07-03
mine did the same thing, and it is a partition size thing i am trying to figure out. if you do before me let me know

---

### Post by findit on 2009-07-03
if you post the first code like x33a says you will see what i mean

---

### Post by samborambo on 2009-07-04
You need to give more information about your setup. I assume you are dual booting windows and ubuntu. Does Ubuntu reside on dedicated partitions or did you use the Wubi installer? How much space did you allocate for ubuntu?

If you don't know the specifics, copy and paste the output of the the following commands from an ubuntu terminal:

```
sudo fdisk -l /dev/sd* /dev/hd*
mount
df -h

```

If you installed using Wubi, read the Wubi guide [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide") THOROUGHLY.

Sam.

---

### Post by bmtlol on 2009-07-04
> **x33a said:**
> post the output of
```
df -h
```and also, use these commands to free up some space
```
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoclean
```
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda5             2.3G  2.2G  472K 100% /
tmpfs                 439M     0  439M   0% /lib/init/rw
varrun                439M  104K  438M   1% /var/run
varlock               439M     0  439M   0% /var/lock
udev                  439M  164K  438M   1% /dev
tmpfs                 439M  244K  438M   1% /dev/shm
lrm                   439M  2.4M  436M   1% /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/volatile

---

### Post by synapsys on 2009-07-04
root partition needs more space. Resize or re install to a bigger partition.

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-07-04
as synapsys said, you made the root partition too small, and hence, ran out of space.

you should have given at least 5 GB to the root, or if you intend to install a lot of software, then 10GB or more.

now, either resize the partition using gparted (ubuntu live CD), or reinstall ubuntu, this time making sure to allocate more space to root.

---

### Post by bmtlol on 2009-07-04
When I install how do I select my partition size?

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-07-04
you haven't used a partition editor before?

well anyway, while installing choose the option -> specify partitions manually.

from there, you can choose the size of the partition.

---

