---
title: "nvidia screen resolution changes won't survive reboot"
date: 2010-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ebax on 2010-05-19
I've googled for days, and searched this forum, and tried dozens of suggested solutions, but so far, none have worked.  SUSE and other distros never were this frustrating.

This is a new 9.10 installation.  Screen resolution by default is 800x600.  I've installed the 1.85 nvidia driver, which correctly identifies my monitor as a Samsung 931b (or whatever).
Nvidia's gui suggests a 1280x1024, which is just what I want.  When I try to save the changes to xorg.conf, I get a variety of errors, including (but not limited to) "...error parsing xorg.conf..".  I've chmod 'ed  the X11 directory, and the xorg.conf* files in it to
777, but it doesn't help.   I end up with 1280x1024 until a reboot, after which I get 800x600 again (arrgg!).

Judging from the number of people posting here and in other places, this is common.  Seems there would be a solution that works.   Any suggestions?

Here is the current content of my xorg.conf file:
ebaxter@ebaxter-desktop:/etc/X11$ cat xorg.conf
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Fri Aug 14 17:54:58 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6150 LE"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

ebaxter@ebaxter-desktop:/etc/X11$ 


Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-05-19
OOPS, SORRY .. this does NOT apply to you as you are not using 10.04 so removing.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2010-05-19
Ultimately the changes that you introduce to the Nvidia-Settings-Manager only count for the manager. You can try to run it as root, (with gksudo in front), but I don't think this will work either.

You should be able to change the display settings from the regular utility from System->Prefs->Display (I forgot which one it was exactly).

---

### Post by ebax on 2010-05-19
SOLVED, mostly.  If I use the system utility instead of the nvidia utility, I can set resolution to 1280x1024, and it survives reboot.   Refresh is only 52, not 60 as recommended, but
I don't see that as a problem (at least, yet...?).


Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2010-05-19
To change Nvidia settings you  need to use super user powers, "gksudo nvidia-settings" then click save settings. when finished that should save your settings on reboot.

---

### Post by Objekt on 2010-05-19
> **kelvin spratt said:**
> To change Nvidia settings you  need to use super user powers, "gksudo nvidia-settings" then click save settings. when finished that should save your settings on reboot.

Yup, that works on my system.  Nvidia settings needs to modify a system configuration file (xorg.conf), so the nvidia-settings app has to run with elevated privileges or it can't save changes.

Same reason you have to put in your password when you run Synaptic Package Manager.

Should apply for Ubuntu 10.04 as well.  Let us know if it doesn't work.

---

### Post by jkmacr on 2010-06-06
I have the same problem. 
When I try to save to the config file after running gksudo nvidia-settings, I get:

[I]"ERROR: Unable to open X config file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' for writing."
[/I]

The terminal dump above this is:

[I]Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/share/screen-resolution-extra/nvidia-polkit.py", line 75, in <module>
    operation_status = main(options)
  File "/usr/share/screen-resolution-extra/nvidia-polkit.py", line 51, in main
    exit_code = conf.backupAndWriteXorgConf([options.backup_filename, options.filename])
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/dbus/proxies.py", line 68, in __call__
    return self._proxy_method(*args, **keywords)
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/dbus/proxies.py", line 140, in __call__
    **keywords)
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/dbus/connection.py", line 620, in call_blocking
    message, timeout)
dbus.exceptions.DBusException: org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.UnknownMethod: Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/dbus/service.py", line 649, in _message_cb
    (candidate_method, parent_method) = _method_lookup(self, method_name, interface_name)
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/dbus/service.py", line 244, in _method_lookup
    raise UnknownMethodException('%s is not a valid method of interface %s' % (method_name, dbus_interface))
UnknownMethodException: org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.UnknownMethod: Unknown method: backupAndWriteXorgConf is not a valid method of interface com.ubuntu.ScreenResolution.Mechanism
[/I]

Any ideas?

---

### Post by stderr on 2010-06-06
> **jkmacr said:**
> I get:

[I]"ERROR: Unable to open X config file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' for writing."
[/I]

Can you post the output of 

```
ls -l /etc/X11/xorg*
```

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-06-06
you have to understand that ubuntu kernel now deals with X, so old xorg.conf or built by nvidia process often dont work: remove it

sudo rm -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf

then reboot

---

### Post by jkmacr on 2010-06-06
Here is the result of 

ls -l /etc/X11/xorg*

[I]-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1585 2010-05-09 12:47 /etc/X11/xorg.conf
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1771 2010-05-09 12:16 /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1596 2010-05-09 12:42 /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup-100509124136
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1771 2010-05-09 12:25 /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup_2010591225
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1596 2010-05-09 12:47 /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup_2010591247
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root  269 2010-05-09 12:41 /etc/X11/xorg.conf.failsafe[/I]

---

### Post by stderr on 2010-06-06
> **dino99 said:**
> you have to understand that ubuntu kernel now deals with X, so old xorg.conf or built by nvidia process often dont work: remove it

sudo rm -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf

then reboot

I'd try dino99's suggestion - makes sense, and I'm still on 9.10.

---

### Post by jkmacr on 2010-06-07
> **stderr said:**
> I'd try dino99's suggestion - makes sense, and I'm still on 9.10.

Ok. Tried that. The nvivia-settings app forces me to setting the xorg.conf file back up. I need to use the nvidia driver to use the Ion GPU. 

Funny thing is that I did not have this problem awhile. I made the mistake of upgrading to 10.04 and that blew away the capability to drive HD resolution video (and my sound support). So went back to 9.10, but somehow ended up with this new problem.

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-06-07
Two questions.

1. Are you sure you have the kernel modules still then? With changing kernels you may not have the correct modules compiled anymore.

2. At least on my nVidia settings manager, there is an option to "apply" or one to "save to configuration file" if you want it to be saved on reboot, it needs to be "saved to configuration file"

---

### Post by jkmacr on 2010-06-08
thanks for the suggestions.

1. I did a clean install - wiped the system disk when going back to 9.10, so the kernel should be OK.

2. When I try to save the configuration, I get an error message - see post #7 in this thread. (I ran the nVidia settings app using gksudo.)



j

---

### Post by zanberdo on 2010-06-10
I have encountered this same issue with *nvidia-settings* while running Ubuntu 9.04 (64-bit). 

Stepping through the error stack from *nvidia-settings* it appears the problem lay in _/usr/share/screen-resolution-extra/nvidia-polkit.py_, specifically with:
**def get_xkit_service. **

A service_object is created from dbus.SystemBus().get_obejct(SERVICE_NAME, OBJECT_PATH) (where SERVICE_NAME= 'com.ubuntu.ScreenResolution.Mechanism' and OBJECT_PATH = '/'). 

When **main** calls **conf.backupXorgConf** (where conf = get_xkit_service()) the error is throw indicating that **backupXorgConf** is an "Unknown method: backupXorgConf is not a valid method of interface com.ubuntu.ScreenResolution.Mechanism"

Bottom line: all of the people who suggestion to remove xorg.conf, rerun nvidia-xconfig then run gksu nvidia-settings are wrong.  This will not fix the problem with saving changes to the config file!

I am continuing to research this issue.

---

### Post by zanberdo on 2010-06-11
UPDATE: I have found two similar suggestions for how to work around this issue. 

The first suggestion is to go through the motions of using nvidia-settings to configure your display properties. At the point at which you would save the results select the option to review the new configuration and paste the results to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  This seems like a sensible suggestion and I tried it, without success.  For reasons I can not explain (yet) it appears that updating xorg.conf with the new configuration does not load the correct resolution.  My desktop loads at 800x600 regardless of my xorg.conf settings. NOTE: the nvidia driver is definitely loading, it's just not loading the correct resolution.

A second suggestion I came across involves calling **nvidia-settings** with the **--load-config-only** option at login.  Various means of achieving this goal were proposed, from creating ~/.xinitrc to writing a script and setting it to run at start-up.

Neither of these approaches worked for me. My suspicion is that **nvidia-settings --load-config-only** does not work in the way that those making this suggestion think it works. The **--load-config-only** option is described as:

[INDENT]*"Load the configuration file, send the values specified therein to the X server, and exit.  This mode of operation is useful to place in your .xinitrc file, for example.*"
[/INDENT]
I'm not clear exactly which configuration file is being used, but it does not have an effect on my system.

However, I did find a workaround that works for me: **xrandr**.  While experimenting with **xrandr** I found a simple option that works for my situation and wrote a bash script which sets the screen resolution at login. This is by no means ideal, but as a work-around I'm satisfied. 

My next experiment will be to remove the nvidia drivers loaded from repos and install the drivers provided directly from nvidia.com.

NOTE: I am running Ubuntu 9.04 64-bit on an ASUS P6T SE with the Intel i7 930 and NVidia GT220 video. I'm currently using the nvidia-glx-256 driver (though I've tested this with the nvidia-glx-190 and nvidia-glx-195 drivers as well) from the nvidia repo. Additional system information and configuration available upon request.

---

### Post by jkmacr on 2010-07-12
New wrinkle:

I recently addded a new user to the system. When you log in from boot to the new user account, the resolution comes up the way it is supposed to at the full HD 1920 x 1080. No need to manually reset it.

What might be in (or not in) a clean account that would do this? Something in the start-up scripts? or in the shutdown scripts?

j

---

### Post by suniyo on 2010-08-24
For me it is same too, exact same problem as you have. When I use another user than the one that has this problem it works well. Only one user is facing this problem. Why it is so I don't understand. Have done lot of research but nothing... Did you find any solution to this problem?

---

### Post by tmfries on 2010-09-01
ttt

still having this problem here. I also have stuff disappearing from my start menu after reboot and widgets that are clicked "autostart on login" not autostarting at login.

---

### Post by selfcommander on 2012-04-25
I searched everywhere, resolution just kept changing back for me. I followed instructions in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7490352&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7490352&postcount=2) and it was fixed.

---

