---
title: "./ Terminal Command is not working."
date: 2011-04-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RagnarIV on 2011-04-03
Hello,

I just recently installed Ubuntu to do some light perl development. I was installing Adobe Air and after I made the bin file executable, I could not run it with the (./). It says that there is no such file or directory. Here is the output from my terminal:


alan@workstartion:~$ cd Downloads
alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$ ls -a
.                                             hal-9000.png
..                                            libflashplayer.so
AdobeAIRInstaller.bin                         mass-effect-normandy-sr1.jpg
flashplayer10_2_p3_64bit_linux_111710.tar.gz
alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$ sudo chmod 777 AdobeAIRInstaller.bin
alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$ sudo ./AdobeAIRInstaller.bin
sudo: unable to execute ./AdobeAIRInstaller.bin: No such file or directory
alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$ 

I've deleted the .bin and re-downloaded it, I have renamed it, moved it and even tried executing it by removing the .bin and running it from its location. I am still getting the same errors. 

Please let me know if you need additional information.

---

### Post by Rhubarb on 2011-04-03
A couple of things for you to try:-

1) Re-download the binary, cd into the Downloads directory, now run the following to make it executable:
```
chmod u+x AdobeAIRInstaller.bin
```
Now try to run it:
```
./AdobeAIRInstaller.bin
```

2) Try using nautilus (gnome's file browser):
Right click on the file, go down to properties, go to the permissions tab, and check the "Execute" checkbox.
Now to run it just double-click on AdobeAIRInstaller.bin, and select "Run" (if that doesn't work, try choosing "Run in a Terminal" instead)

3) If all else fails, you may have to execute it as root, or if you're still stuck, try letting us know the result of running "**ll**" (2 lowercase L's) inside the Downloads directory.

Disclaimer: I've never actually tried to install adobe air :)

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-03
May it be that you are trying to run a 64bit app on a 32bit OS?

If so, that will not work.

Greetings.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-04-03
> **Krytarik said:**
> May it be that you are trying to run a 64bit app on a 32bit OS?

If so, that will not work.

This.

Also, if you're downloading to an NTFS or FAT partition, permission changes will not stick due to those filesystems not supporting UNIX file permissions.

---

### Post by RagnarIV on 2011-04-03
sudo chmod u+x didn't work and I have tried using sudo before. I'm running 64bit Ubuntu 10.10. Also the filesystem is EXT4. I've tried using Nautilus and I have re-downloaded the binary. I just re-downloaded it to try sudo chmod u+x.

./ y u no work?

Here is the output from my terminal:


alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$ sudo chmod u+x AdobeAIRInstaller.bin
[sudo] password for alan: 
alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$ sudo ./AdobeAIRInstaller.bin
sudo: unable to execute ./AdobeAIRInstaller.bin: No such file or directory
alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$ ll
total 30688
drwxr-xr-x  2 alan alan     4096 2011-04-03 14:34 ./
drwxr-xr-x 33 alan alan     4096 2011-04-03 14:12 ../
-rwxr-xr-x  1 alan alan 15980724 2011-04-03 14:34 AdobeAIRInstaller.bin*
-rw-r--r--  1 alan alan    90596 2011-04-03 04:04 Catalyst-Devel-1.33.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--  1 alan alan   254445 2011-04-03 04:11 Catalyst-Runtime-5.80032.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--  1 alan alan  4310219 2011-04-02 13:41 flashplayer10_2_p3_64bit_linux_111710.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--  1 alan alan    54247 2011-04-02 22:57 hal-9000.png
-rw-r--r--  1 alan alan     2441 2011-04-03 03:53 judgedeath.jpg
-rw-r--r--  1 alan alan 10606256 2010-11-16 19:10 libflashplayer.so
-rw-r--r--  1 alan alan    95053 2011-04-02 22:59 mass-effect-normandy-sr1.jpg
alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-04-03
Can you run it with the full path?

```
/home/alan/Downloads/AdobeAIRInstaller.bin
```

Also, the Adobe website offers a .deb installer. Try that.

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-04-03
> alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$ sudo chmod u+x AdobeAIRInstaller.bin
[sudo] password for alan:
alan@workstartion:~/Downloads$ sudo ./AdobeAIRInstaller.bin
sudo: unable to execute ./AdobeAIRInstaller.bin: No such file or directory
Looks like it'll **chmod** it, but not find it for execution.

Inconsistencies like this can be due to filesystem corruption. Please **fsck** your drives like this:

```
sudo -i
touch /forcefsck
reboot
```
and see what happens.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-03
Upon a web search, I came across these guides:
[http://kb2.adobe.com/cps/408/kb408084.html](http://kb2.adobe.com/cps/408/kb408084.html)
[http://kb2.adobe.com/cps/521/cpsid_52132.html](http://kb2.adobe.com/cps/521/cpsid_52132.html)

However, since there are only older version mentioned, and the install seems to work for a number of 64bit users, I don't believe that it is necessary.

But, why don't you install it with the provided deb-package instead? +1 for that.

---

### Post by RagnarIV on 2011-04-03
> **tredegar said:**
> Looks like it'll **chmod** it, but not find it for execution.

Inconsistencies like this can be due to filesystem corruption. Please **fsck** your drives like this:

```
sudo -i
touch /forcefsck
reboot
```
and see what happens.

I thought you shouldn't fsck mounted drives/partitions? Also I did move the installer to the other partition on the drive and attempted to execute it from there. Also the drive passes smart testing.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-04-03
> **RagnarIV said:**
> I thought you shouldn't fsck mounted drives/partitions? Also I did move the installer to the other partition on the drive and attempted to execute it from there. Also the drive passes smart testing.
That will force a fsck on next boot. :)

---

### Post by RagnarIV on 2011-04-03
Derp, I'll make sure to try that then when I get home. For some reason I can't remote into my box (probably due to our over aggressive desktop admins where I work).

---

### Post by RagnarIV on 2011-04-05
Yeah looks like it was an issue with my file system. Ran the fsck and now it just executed. Pretty weird eh? Hopefully this drive isn't failing prematurely. Its only 8 months old.

Thanks for the help guys!

---

