---
title: "7.10 freezes randomly"
date: 2007-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by anago on 2007-12-16
Hello!
I had installed the latest version of Ubuntu(7.10). Sometimes my laptop just freezes, and I have no idea of the reason. First I thought it is a hardware problem, and im still not sure about that. If I turn on my computer it works fine, but after some time it freezes completely. Sometimes it takes 5 minutes, sometimes hours, sometimes happens nothing. It doesnt depends on what im doing, it happends even if im not logged in. Now Im using version 7.04 and it seems to be fine. No freezes. I think this is something with the version 7.10. I tried kubuntu 7.10, it freezed exactly as the other one just after fresh new install.
My laptop is:
Asus
AMD Thurion64 single core
2gig rams
Geforce go 7300
120gigs sata

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-12-16
Just in case:
Screensaver>Power Management>Make sure both are set to 'Never'

---

### Post by seamusandboo on 2007-12-17
I have the same problem happen with my laptop. At first I thought it could be a hardware problem since I had just installed an additional 512MB memory module, and I thought it could be the cause of the problem. But then I removed the new memory module and used only the original 512MB of RAM, but the problem continued. I still couldn't figure out what is causing it though. My laptop is a little older than yours, it's a Pentium 4 2 GHz with 1GB of RAM. I'll keep on doing some research and if I find anything I'll post here.

---

### Post by Alchera on 2008-02-12
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/5537](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/5537)

The above could shed some light (or not). :D

---

