---
title: ".exe?"
date: 2006-04-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Elusive_Shadow on 2006-04-13
I'm about to install ubuntu, but I've heard linux doesn't support .exe's

Is this true with ubuntu? If so, are there any .exe emulators around?

Thanks

---

### Post by dreamsINdigital on 2006-04-13
Wine or CrossOver Office

---

### Post by damu on 2006-04-13
you will find equivalent of most softwares you were using on windows in the [linux world]("http://www.linuxrsp.ru/win-lin-soft/table-eng.html"), except for games and specific applications (softwares like Flash MX or DIrector MX for multimedia production).

Some softwares are already installed with Ubuntu, for some others, you will just go to applications/add applications , browse the list of applications available (including in the sections more programs), tick the ones you want to have install, and click apply...that's it : no .exe to download, softwares to buy. Ubuntu will download everything, install it, and tell you when it's ready to use.

In the same, once you know the name of an application you want, you will use synaptic (System/administration/synaptic), type the name of the application in the search engine, tick it, click apply, and voila!

As mentionned earlier, Wine can launch some applications which would be in your windows partition (not all of them...actually few of them).

If you really need very specific applications, then you might try to install [VMware]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InstallingVMWare"), but that's definitely a step further with a bit of know how required

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2006-04-13
Why exactly do you need .exe support? Do you need to install something from  windows?

---

