---
title: "gvfs crippling my computer. help please!"
date: 2008-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by quixote on 2008-05-10
gvfs has decided that an UNMOUNTED network drive is part of my root filesystem.  I've even moved the 2.2GB backup file involved to a different location, and yet it is still showing up as accessible!  This mistake by gvfs makes my root partition look 100% full to the system WHICH IT IS NOT.

How can I either
a) kickstart gvfs into recovering its tiny mind?

b) or go back to using something that actually works?

I posted a bug about this. (I'm sorry, I'm too frustrated to dig up all the links all over again.)  The solution under gvfs and disk usage, to unmark gvfs in the Disk Usage Analyzer, does not work for me.  I've done that, and it makes no difference.

I rather desperately need a solution, because right now I can't even write temp files to my root partition.

Please help!

---

### Post by quixote on 2008-05-10
This is the previous post that has the links to related gvfs issues: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4902571#post4902571](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4902571#post4902571)

---

### Post by quixote on 2008-05-11
This is what finally worked to get my hard drive back:

All done as root:

umount gvfs-fuse-daemon

Change ownership of backup file generated by SimpleBackup on network drive, and move to another location.

Change group of that network directory from "1000" to root.

remove that directory and all its subdirectories (#rm -r /mnt/network-drive/backup)  It had no visible subdirs, but an ordinary rmdir command kept saying it was not empty.

On my computer (not the network drive), remove .gvfs both in my user home dir, and in root's home directory.

exit root.  reboot.

The gnome devs really need to get to work on this issue.  A filesystem that can make your computer next to nonfunctional is not a minor bug.

---

