---
title: "14.04 - Certain shortcut keys just seem to stop working at random."
date: 2015-09-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Roasted on 2015-09-19
Hi friends. I run 14.04 on multiple machines. I noticed at times with zero predictive pattern that certain keyboard shortcuts just stop responding. This is often function keys to control volume, or often times the CTRL ALT T shortcut to bring up terminal. The only fix is to log out and back in, which I have to say, is a monumental disruption on my work system. Likewise, I run 14.04 on my HTPC since Unity (with UI scaling bumped up) is actually very awesome as a HTPC interface. But when my volume keys magically stop working, logging out and back in is kind of a nuisance. To make things worse, it used to be that you could run unity --replace and it would "reboot" Unity within your active session. This was a great workaround. Now-a-days (I have no idea what happened), unity --replace force logs you out, which negates the entire point of it.

Has anybody else seen this? Does anybody have any sort of workaround, a fix, or anything that might address this issue? I'd *greatly* appreciate it. Thanks for your time!

---

### Post by CantankRus on 2015-09-19
Do you use conky on the desktop by chance.
Some shortcuts fail for me when I minimize open windows to show a blank desktop.
The top panel doesn't show "Ubuntu Desktop" as it should.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]264537[/ATTACH]
Clicking on the desktop brings up "Ubuntu Desktop" and shortcuts work again.

I use **compiz --replace &** to reload unity as **setsid unity** logs me out in 14.04.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2015-09-19
> **CantankRus said:**
> Do you use conky on the desktop by chance.
Some shortcuts fail for me when I minimize open windows to show a blank desktop.
The top panel doesn't show "Ubuntu Desktop" as it should.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]264537[/ATTACH]
Clicking on the desktop brings up "Ubuntu Desktop" and shortcuts work again.

I use **compiz --replace &** now to reload unity as **setsid unity** logs me out.

I feel like I exhausted several options but maybe I didn't click on the desktop. I'll try minimizing everything and clicking the desktop next time it happens.

But no, I don't use Conky. I have relatively simple setups. 14.04 with unity tweak tool and a few minor things changed. Nothing done on a lower level in the compizconfig settings manager or anything like that.

But anyway I'll try that click on desktop tip and see what happens. Normally I just get agitated when it happens and either ignore it as much as I can or log out/back in right away to get back to what I was doing. :P

---

### Post by CantankRus on 2015-09-19
OK.
Yeah I only see this with conky running and solution is to give conky no focus in 
ccsm > window rules

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-09-19
Try this.  Immediately after rebooting, open a terminal:

```
xmodmap -pk
xmodmap -pk > keymaps_after_boot.txt
```

Print out the list.

Now when you lose a keymapping, run the sequence again:

```
xmodmap -pk > keymaps_after_losing_some_of_them.txt
```

Compare the two lists.

Understand that some keys are intercepted by BIOS and handled by the ACPI/BIOS subsystem.  Make sure that your motherboard has a working battery.  Some keys (like Volume) don't work correctly when the motherboard battery is weak.

---

