---
title: "12.10 - After kernel &quot;upgrade&quot;, system has trouble staying in graphics mode"
date: 2013-02-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ArlieS on 2013-02-20
I have a Lenovo T430 laptop with a docking station and 2 external monitors. 

I ran Ubuntu 12.04.01 on it with no graphics issues, except that I could not extend my desk top across the laptop screen as well as both external monitors. I presumed that was a limitation of graphics memory or similar, and configured my desktop accordingly.

Due to unrelated problems, I wound up replacing the disk drive and installing 12.10 in a dual boot config. with windows 7. If I recall correctly, graphics worked sanely for a short time. However, I installed various additional packages, and made a practice of letting the "Software Updater" upgrade whatever it wanted to once a week. That policy resulted in my system having 3 kernels available: vmlinuz-3.5.0-17-generic, vmlinuz-3.5.0-22-generic, and vmlinuz-3.5.0-23-generic. It boots  vmlinuz-3.5.0-23-generic by default.

When booted on 3.5.0-22 or 3.5.0-23 I'm having a lot of problems with X. In particular:
1) when I first boot the system, it will get stuck in its initial console mode, and not give me the GUI login.  Undocking and redocking generally produces the GUI login, I login, and things then work for a while - until I leave my desk for long enough for the screen to go dark.  
2) Once the screen's gone dark, I should be able to wiggle my mouse and get the unlock interface to appear. That usually works - but as soon as I click or type, the GUI disappears and I'm looking at the text console. Alternatively, one of my monitors reports something like "input signal out of range. please change to 1920 x 1080 @ 60 HZ". 
3) In this situation, undocking, pausing, and redocking will generally get me from console mode to graphical unlock. Sometimes I ahve to do this twice, or open and close the laptop screen, or similar. 
4) If I'm seeing the "input signal out of range", there's no recourse but to reboot. Fortunately in that case I have at least one working screen, so can do a contrlled shutdown.
5) I'm also plagued by the "Ubuntu 12.10 has experienced an internal error" pop-up, which I believe indicates a core dump from some daemon process.This generally appears after recovering from one of the above. It's not always the same process, but I believe that compiz has been one of them. 

I'm not 100% sure that 3.5.0-17 is immune to the issues. I've only tested it through one reboot and one lunch hour. But given the recent rate of issues I've been seeing, having no issues at all during that 3 hour period is an immense improvement. 

I have been unable to find anything suspicious (to my limited understanding, at least) in /var/log/Xorg.0.log or /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old.

$ lspci | grep -i vga
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 3rd Gen Core processor Graphics Controller (rev 09)

If you want a wild guess as what's going wrong, I suspect udev isn't working right with the later kernels, and is telling lies to X. But what I know about debugging udev can be written on my thumbnail in large print :confused:

It's quite possible I broke something myself, attempting to recover from other issues. 

 Also, while I try to use the "software updater" exclusively, and avoid "sudo apt-get upgrade" [having observed they don't behave the same way], it's possible I may have slipped up and used the command line a time or two. I have definitely used the command line for "sudo apt-get install ..." and "sudo apt-get remove ..." as well as "sudo apt-get update" [Ubuntu Software center is way too much trouble to be my primary way of installing packages, as long as it insists on showing me books and for-pay software ahead of normal linux packages.]

---

### Post by ArlieS on 2013-02-21
After 24 hours, the system is still behaving perfectly on vmlinuz-3.5.0-17-generic.  Previous to that, I was lucky to get 3 hours of stability. 

It's pretty clear there's a bug somewhere - either in packaging (something didn't update when the new kernels were installed) or in the vmlinuz-3.5.0-22-generic kernel. 

This clearly needs to be reported to someone who can fix it. They'd probably appreciate some clues as to which one is broken - packaging or kernel. 

Can anyone help me figure out what to report and to whom?

Also, it sure looks like there's a test case or three missing in the process of qualifying updates to stable Ubuntu releases.  That probably also needs to be reported somewhere.

---

### Post by ArlieS on 2013-02-24
It gets even more insane. With vmlinuz-3.5.0-17-generic working and vmlinuz-3.5.0-23-generic not working, I wanted to boot from vmlinuz-3.5.0-17-generic by default, but without uninstaling the others. So I told grub to remember which kernel I'd most recently booted on, and pick it as the next default. 

Net result:  vmlinuz-3.5.0-17-generic started displaying the same problems as  vmlinuz-3.5.0-23-generic, as far as I could tell. (I didn't have the docking station available, so I couldn't check all the details.) And  the misbehaviour of vmlinuz-3.5.0-23-generic changed - something in the start up sequence detected that it could not run normal graphics. 

I poked around with this, doing multiple reboots, and misbehaviour continued - until I undid my grub changes, whereupon vmlinuz-3.5.0-17-generic once again worked correctly.

The recipe I used to instruct grub can be found at: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12521245&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12521245&postcount=2)

---

