---
title: "10.04 occasional hang on shutdown"
date: 2011-02-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Redsandro on 2011-02-10
Shutting down sometimes hangs during the purple ubuntu shutdown screen.
This especially happens when shutting down via ssh.

For example, sometimes I need to leave and wait for some operations to finish. Later, I ssh into the machine to **sudo shutdown now**. It tells me it's going down and disconnects me and all, but when I get home the shutdown screen is still on with a few white and red dots (those that are animated during shutdown).

When this happens, I do a slow **Alt + SysRQ + R, E, I, S** and **U** before I manually power down in order to keep my file systems happy.

Also, shutting down sometimes leaves me with a black unresponsive desktop. I can login through ssh and do a /etc/init.d/gdm restart and my desktop (or login screen) comes back.

I am running **Ubuntu 10.04 LTS x64**. I was running X86 before and I had the same issues with the shutdown hang. After a clean install of x64 it took a few weeks before I got the same symptoms again. The black desktop thing is new with x64.

Can anyone provide a clue as to why this happens, or give me some hints on what to do the next time this happens in order to find out why it's happening?

---

### Post by Redsandro on 2011-02-12
New symptom:

**ssh shutdown** through local **xwin -query** connection leaves Ubuntu machine with purple shutdown screen, but without the logo and graphics. Just purple.

All I had to do was manually press the power button and shutdown continues normally.

:(:confused:

---

### Post by diegoviola on 2011-06-08
it sounds like the same issue we have here:

[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=33872](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=33872)

please try the solutions mentioned in that thread and report problems there.

---

### Post by Melclic on 2011-08-01
Hi,

I have been having exactly the same issue, only it seems that this happens when I perform a wake on lan on the computer. After that wol, when I shutdown the laptop through ssh, it dosn't properly shuts it. I have a black screen and the fan still runs.

Please help I have been looking all over the place for a worlaround. Could I write a script to disable a module?

I tried to disable eth0 before shutting down but it didn't help.

Thanks for any help

---

### Post by Redsandro on 2011-08-04
It also still never works for me.
No automatic updates have fixed this.

When I come home from work, I find that the ssh shutdown command never came through and the computer is still draining power from the power grid, killing rainbows and bunnies in the unnecessary environmental straining process.

---

