---
title: "14.04 and 16.04 login loop"
date: 2017-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2017-05-06
In order to login to the GUI I had to do the following:

login via the non graphical console eg ALT Ctrl F1

sudo startx 

Create a new admin status user. I can now login using the GDI for the new user but not my old user.

I do not have the nvidia drivers installed. I have a ASROCK FM2A88X extreme6 board that runs on AMD not nvidia.

 .Xauthority was not the cause ( I deleted it and still could not log in under my old user name)

I can not  access the GDM3 log as permission is refused. 

I tried both 14.04 and 16.04 and both would not let me login under my usual admin name.

I have changied  the driver to he Amd64 microcode, it had no effect on the failure to login in. I considered using the AMD driver from their support site but gave up because they made the choice too complicated and at the time  I could only install via the command line. (I was accessing the Internet on another less powerful machine)

I am starting to copy over the config files in my old user's home directory but I would have preferred to have found out why I could not log in, because it may give me problems on the next upgrade.

I guess the problem arose because I my PSU blewup and I took out the SSD and put it into the nvidia machine. I then used the home on the SSD for the temp machine. When I replaced the psu and tried to run the existing 16.04 on my AMD board I could not log in. I wonder if some automatic  changes were made to the home directory because I was using it on a nvidia machine. 


Can anyone help me login normally using the old user?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-05-06
It sounds like a permissions or user problem related to your /home but to be sure we need more info about the move from one machine to the other because I am a bit confused about the details of that.

Did you have the same username on both machines?  
Was there a separate /home partition on the SSD that you moved or was /home on a different physical hard disk?
Do you have more than one /home for the same named user that is now confusing the system?

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2017-05-06
[QUOTE=ajgreeny;13642171]It sounds like a permissions or user problem related to your /home but to be sure we need more info about the move from one machine to the other because I am a bit confused about the details of that.

Did you have the same username on both machines?   Yes
Was there a separate /home partition on the SSD that you moved or was /home on a different physical hard disk? The SSD had both the root and home partitions and came from the computer (A) that I could not get into because of the loop. In order to have access to the internet I 
removed the SSD from computer A and put it into temporary computer (B) that had ubuntu on its own root. I  made the HD on B look to the SSD for the home partition. 
Do you have more than one /home for the same named user that is now confusing the system?     No [ /QUOTE]

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2017-05-06
I have copied all the currently in use  config and other control files from the damaged user (\home\robin) to \home\test. It has been a success with the new user being able to run my existing programs. 

I do not like the idea of keeping my prime user as test and so changed the names in the user setup, but they have not changed the directory names  in the home directory. If I used the livecd to change the /home/test to /home/robin and /home/robin to damaged_user will I have a lot of problems with the program setings? If yes how should I make the changes?

---

