---
title: "11.04 on an Asus 1215b?"
date: 2011-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by feed_sparky on 2011-05-04
I just ordered an Asus eeepc 1215b with the AMD E-350 fusion and was wondering if anyone has had any success with Ubuntu on this netbook?

	AMD Fusion APU E350 1.6GHz (dual core)
        AMD® Radeon HD 6250/AMD® Radeon HD 6310


Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by feed_sparky on 2011-05-05
Well, I took the plunge with the 1215b and everything seems to work great except for the sleep...

---

### Post by will_mcg on 2011-05-06
Hi,

I have also been trying to install Ubuntu onto a 1215B. This is my first time ever using anything Linux so I have been having lots of "fun." I was attempting to dual boot with windows 7 but I didn't really like the way it was installing onto ntfs so I am installing on the second partition with ext4. I am also going to try the 32bit instead of the 64bit. I have 6GB of ram but I doubt I really need that much for what I am doing but the stock 2GB was (and never will be since vista) enough for windows.

I also have the issue with the sleep not working where the only way to get the computer back on is to unplug the battery. I would have thought holding down the power button would do the trick but it still wants to try to come out of sleep when I power it back on. Isn't that a firmware design that should not be overridden? 

The other little issue is the sound is set to max when the OS first boots up no matter what the setting was when I powered down but than goes back to normal once logged in. 

Something very strange I want to test is the graphics drivers. When the drivers were not installed the computer seemed extremely fast when scrolling through windows. After the driver was enabled it became choppy. 

The main reason I am switching to Ubuntu is to program for Android. The laptop does not seem to have enough power to run the emulator correctly in windows. Since the Android OS is based off Linux I am hoping it will not take as much CPU power to keep it stable.

I will keep you posted on any thing new I figure out, like new bugs or fixes to those bugs. 

-Will

---

### Post by feed_sparky on 2011-05-06
I installed the driver from ATI's website, and it seems to be working.

About the sleep issue, I haven't updated to the new BIOS yet, I will try it tonight and report back.

---

### Post by SickNick on 2011-05-09
I got an Asus 1215B coming in tomorrow as well, I am very excited. So I am assuming by saying everything except sleep working means that sound, webcam, wireless lan, and proper video configuration is working? and playing back 1080P smooth?

---

### Post by _matz_ on 2011-05-10
I gave it back a week ago. There was no possibility to get suspend properly working. Disabling C6 in BIOS seems to make it a little more reliable, but the screen keeps still black on around 50% of tries.

Because suspend is an important feature for me, I swapped it with the 1215P. It's a pity because the AMD E-350 is much better (faster CPU, HDMI, better graphics..) than the Intel Atom N570 (DualCore). 

With the 1215P everything works great out of the box. [Jupiter]("http://www.webupd8.org/2010/07/jupiter-ubuntu-ppa-hardware-and-power.html") makes it even better.


Edit: The newest BIOS did **NOT** fix the issues!

---

### Post by viol8r on 2011-05-11
@feed_sparky Did you have to do anything special to get the sound to work?    I have been struggling for the last few hours trying to get my sound to work on the exact same setup (asus 1215b / ubuntu 11.04) with no success.  Thanks in advance for any help or suggestions.

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-11
The craziest thing just happened: I downloaded the desktop 64bit version, used the Universal USB installer, INSTALLED UBUNTU on my 1215b, and when it restarted, I the grub menu did not appear and the computer boots straight into windows :( great... now i cant access my linux os, any suggestions?

Other thoughts: 

* It has been extremely hard to get the live USB to boot. I had to format and rewrite the iso image on the usb for it to finally work once. So far I have seen two types of hang-ups when I try to boot from usb: 1) The screen is completely black and the cursor blinks indefenitely 2) I get the message SYSLINUX [...something] Copyright [...something more] H. Peter Anvin et al [...somethign else i cant remember] and then it skips a line and the screen reads "boot:_" with the flashing cursor.

* I just plugged in the usb I used to install ubuntu in the first place, and it is not booting from it, I have been using usb's for the past 4 releases and have never had a problem :(

---

### Post by viol8r on 2011-05-11
You're in luck my friend.. 

exact same thing just happened to me and I finally solved it by booting into ubuntu off the usb drive and re-installing grub2 using these steps [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2) (ctrl+f "reinstalling grub 2")


now help me get my sound working :P

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-11
Thanks for the help viol8r. However I am having trouble booting the live USB again (the EXACT same, unchanged, pendrive i used for the initial installation.) I have tried with another pendrive and still I cannot boot. since it has only booted twice (ever) from a pendrive out of about 15 attempts, i shall try it many more times to see if perhaps sooner or later it "magically" works. 

As for the sound, i do not have a solution. as you can see from the number of beans i been awarded, I am no expert. I will have you in mind if i find something though. Thanks again for the link.

---

### Post by viol8r on 2011-05-11
Make sure you have the usb drive plugged into one of the usb 2.0 ports and NOT the usb 3.0 port.

 It will not work correctly from the usb 3.0 port.

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-11
Yea Im using the usb2. Anyways, tired of never getting a boot screen i have decided to use ultra iso instead of the recommended app by ubuntu, and there has been some progress. After the asus logo goes away, the screen reads

```
booting form usb
syslinux 3.84 2009-12-18 ebios copyright (c) 1994-2009 H. Peter Anvin et al
_    /*<--- cursor blinks forever*/
```

Any ideas why i get this yet it fails to boot into linx?

---

### Post by noobie1 on 2011-05-11
I had some trouble when installing which may not be related.
I found recreating the USB helped (ie format etc)

If you press Esc at the boot screen you get a menu, try both 
"UEFI: your usb here"
 and 
the plain old usb.

the latter is probably better.

Running 11.04 64 bit and Windows 7 HP 64
Sound worked out of the box.  

Trackpad is a little iffy both with ubuntu and windows (may try opening it up and moving the silver pad trick)
Couldn't get UEFI mode to work with either windows or Ubuntu
Sleep is an issue where it requires removing power and battery is required (although I think (not sure) it may have happened with Windows as well)

Bootbooster never worked nor appeared in bios.

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-11
===Trackpad===
> **noobie1 said:**
> Trackpad is a little iffy both with ubuntu and windows (may try opening it up and moving the silver pad trick)
.
I too had the problem with the trackpad. I opened it up, (removed 4 screws: the one under the semicircle-like rubber protection, and when the ram lid is open, the three that are in sight. opened the plastic front with a credit card and once open removed both silvery protections and the trackpad works like a charm.

===Ubuntu succesfully installed===
FINALLY got ubuntu to boot from my usb and succesfully intall. Right now I am writing form ubuntu! What i did was edit the syslinux file and changed ```
PROMPT 0
``` to ```
PROMPT 1
```
What this does is ask you for the boot location when the usb bots. when prompted, type "help" and then enter. wait a few seconds and ubuntu booted! hurray. I found this answer in a bug thread in launchpad, but cant remember the link.

===Sleep issues===
I too have sleep issues. I upgraded the bios via the tool inside the bios itself to version 0315 and it is still not behaving correctly.

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-11
Have u guys installed the restricted drivers for the videocard? How are they? last time i tried i got a watermark on the lower right of the screen saying unsupported hardware, yet it worked perfectly.

---

### Post by viol8r on 2011-05-11
Noobie did you have to do anything special to get your sound to work?

I get sound through my headphones when they are connected but I have been struggling to get sound out of my speakers, it seems like I have tried everything short of reinstalling the os.


I haven't tried removing the silver pad yet because my touch pad problem doesn't seem to occurring as often as others but from what I have read it seems everyone who has done it no longer has any touch pad issues.

---

### Post by viol8r on 2011-05-11
@aryzing I haven't tried the restricted video driver yet I was waiting until I fixed the sound issue. I am assuming your sound just worked for you without doing anything special?

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-12
yes that is correct. i only performed an ordinary installation of the os (i did check the update while installing, but i suppose that you are up to date with updates)

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-14
Have you tried the restricted drivers yet for the video card? I have these issues so far:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1758189](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1758189)

any suggestions?

---

### Post by feed_sparky on 2011-05-14
I did not have any problems with my sound, I installed the video drivers from ATI's website and they seem to work just fine for me. Although I haven't tried the HDMI yet.

Sleep is still a no go. I gave up on it for now, I installed a Samsung 470 series SSD so it boots just as fast as it wakes up anyways, but it is still anoying...

---

### Post by scylla2 on 2011-05-18
> **feed_sparky said:**
> I did not have any problems with my sound, I installed the video drivers from ATI's website and they seem to work just fine for me. Although I haven't tried the HDMI yet.

Sleep is still a no go. I gave up on it for now, I installed a Samsung 470 series SSD so it boots just as fast as it wakes up anyways, but it is still anoying...


How difficult is the hard drive replacement process? I've heard that with some Asus netbooks this is nightmare and automatically voids your warranty.

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-18
Yes it does void the warranty. As you remove the screws, there is a point where there is one covered by a yellow label which warns you about voiding warranty if removed. In total there are about 22 screws you must remove to acces the harddrive. Might be worth it. I will defenitely replace mine as soon.

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-05-18
Is this a bios issue or will future updats to the kernel and accompanying drivers fix this?  If so has anyone tried running the latest kernel on this hardware and seeing if sleep works?

---

### Post by eddakilla on 2011-05-21
> **aryzing said:**
> 
===Ubuntu succesfully installed===
FINALLY got ubuntu to boot from my usb and succesfully intall. Right now I am writing form ubuntu! What i did was edit the syslinux file and changed ```
default 0
``` to ```
default 1
```
What this does is ask you for the boot location when the usb bots. when prompted, type "help" and then enter. wait a few seconds and ubuntu booted! hurray. I found this answer in a bug thread in launchpad, but cant remember the link.


Please where did you find this ? i mean there is nothing like "Default 0" in the syslinux.cfg file on the USB boot key.

Actually i get the same issue when i try to boot, i'd love to understand the solution :)

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-21
sorry, my bad, I meant to say PROMPT. Change the value to 1 (in other words, it will prompt from where to boot). Then type "help" and when the help screen comes up just hit enter. wait a few seconds and it will boot.

---

### Post by eddakilla on 2011-05-21
I get the same thing, again, i have the MSI U270 Netbook that is based on the same APU... i changed PROMPT to 1, tried to boot from USB 2 and 3. But i don't see how to fix.

The only alternative i have is to install inside windows, but thats not really what i would like :(

I check further, but if you have another solution to boot it would be great !

Thanks

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-21
I found that post #7 was the solution for me that I explained in an earlier post here.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/syslinux/+bug/617779](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/syslinux/+bug/617779)

Sorrry I cant help you much more, as you can see, I am no expert :(

---

### Post by eddakilla on 2011-05-21
Ok i used : Universal USB Installer from pendrivelinux.com

[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/universal-usb-installer-easy-as-1-2-3/]("http://www.pendrivelinux.com/universal-usb-installer-easy-as-1-2-3/")

And I can boot with USB3 ! But Seems that Live doesn't work at all.

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-05-22
Great news eddakilla! Happy ur part of the ubuntu experience!

Regards

---

### Post by noobie1 on 2011-05-22
> **viol8r said:**
> Noobie did you have to do anything special to get your sound to work?

Sound worked fine after Natty install without any tweaking, but spoke too soon.
It has now stopped working.  Not sure what may have caused it to stop working, maybe an update?

removing the top silver tab fixed my trackpad issues, but broke quite a few clips in the process.
In hindsight, the best way may be to unclip the two corners , then unclip by the keyboard then try to slide the pad up towards the keyboard.

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-05-22
I just bought the 1215B.  At first it would not boot off my USB drive.  I updated the Bios to the latest version on the Asus website and tried again.  It booted fine.  When Unity came up I had 3D with the open source drivers and could connect to the WIFI without any issues.  I didn't test the sound or much else but the basics worked.  When my SSD drive comes in tomorrow I am going to install Ubuntu on it and really test it out.  I was having issues getting VAAPI working on 11.04 but it was working on 10.04 so I will see as the E-350 APU really needs this to reach maximum potential.

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-05-24
I received my SSD in the mail yesterday and managed to get Ubuntu 11.04 running on it.  It would not install and boot straight away with 11.04.  I had to install 10.10 and then upgrade to 11.04 to get it to work.  Everything pretty much works hibernate doesn't for some reason, but if you disable C6 in the bios suspend does.  VAAPI is still broken in 11.04 so no accelerated video playback yet.  The other thing I found surprising was how sluggish Compiz feels at some points when running Unity.  Windows 7 was snappy and smooth but Unity drags a little but.  Hopefully as they work on it more it will smooth out.  Battery life was solid and didn't differ much from Windows, even with reported kernel power management bug.  The other hardware quirk I found was that the built in Broadcom driver functions much better than the proprietary driver that Jockey wants to install.

For everyday tasks it's more than adequate and is extremely light and portable.

I'll be interested to see how things work when VAAPI gets fixed and Flash 10.4 gets released with VAAPI support.

---

### Post by wngoju on 2011-05-27
lakerssuperman - or others.  Thanks for all the info.  Any update on this effort?  Thanks again...

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-06-02
I've got most of 
the functionality working .  Video acceleration is still a no go.  Ill keep reporting back as anything new develops.

---

### Post by wngoju on 2011-06-02
L-man - mucho thanks again for the input.  

I spent a -lot- of time trying to get stuff working, installed Ubuntu, mint 11; used W7 for a while etc.  But I finally sent machine back to Amazon (Thanks Amazon).  I tried hard but failed to get past the VERY NARROW viewing angle of the display.

---

### Post by lilkidz on 2011-06-04
I can't seem to install Ubuntu 11.04 64bit or 32bit on my Asus 1215B red.

I can successfully go into the Live CD, but whenever I try to install, the installation works until the part where the message says it's installing the GRUB2 bootloader, along the lines of that. I get this screen when trying to install the 64bit version:
[http://i55.tinypic.com/23jft6o.jpg](http://i55.tinypic.com/23jft6o.jpg)
[http://i53.tinypic.com/24pyzcx.jpg](http://i53.tinypic.com/24pyzcx.jpg)

Whenever I try to boot into Ubuntu 11.04 32bit, the screen only stays at the Syslinux and some other information after it; the screen that appears first when you boot into it. The screen just stays like that.

I even tried Ubuntu 10.10 64bit and it also stays at the Syslinux screen.

Any help would be appreciated.

Edit: I've tried reinstalling GRUB 2 from the link that viol8r provided on the first page, but it still won't boot. I always get:
Reboot and Select proper Boot device
or Insert Boot Media in selected Boot device and press a key.

---

### Post by noobie1 on 2011-06-05
I remember my grub install hanging when booting in UEFI mode. Couldn't get windows to use UEFI either. Your screen shot includes efimanager tainted so it's probably the same issue.

I installed by booting into the livecd environment in BIOS mode, then running install.

To use bios mode, press <esc> at boot, which should bring up a boot menu with two entries for you usb stick.  Select the one saying BIOS or the not which does not say UEFI.

I'm running 64 bit 11.04 and win 7.

An update to earlier posts:
Sound is again working.  Don't recall updating to fix it, but it did crash from sleep since.  IF my sound breaks again, I'll make it sleep crash as a 1st step.  Sleep is also broken with windows so not only a linux issue.

---

### Post by okdok on 2011-06-05
I can report success w/11.04 64Bit. I do recall an error first time through installing via usb @ grub install. However, restarted the install and all was good.

I am a bit buggered about the sleep mode. I am interested in any progress or reference on this topic.

Otherwise it's a sweet machine! I was running ArcLinux on it with gnome3 but the synaptic drive was awful. So back to good ol Ubuntu for this machine.

Any tips on sleep get great karma in return! :guitar:

---

### Post by lilkidz on 2011-06-05
> **noobie1 said:**
> I remember my grub install hanging when booting in UEFI mode. Couldn't get windows to use UEFI either. Your screen shot includes efimanager tainted so it's probably the same issue.

I installed by booting into the livecd environment in BIOS mode, then running install.

To use bios mode, press <esc> at boot, which should bring up a boot menu with two entries for you usb stick.  Select the one saying BIOS or the not which does not say UEFI.

I'm running 64 bit 11.04 and win 7.

An update to earlier posts:
Sound is again working.  Don't recall updating to fix it, but it did crash from sleep since.  IF my sound breaks again, I'll make it sleep crash as a 1st step.  Sleep is also broken with windows so not only a linux issue.

I'll try what you posted.

Off-topic
Now about sleep being broken in Windows. If you are using realtek, disable realtek in the start-up tab in the window of msconfig; opening it by typing msconfig in the run window (Win+R). It should work by disabling the realtek in the start-up tab in msconfig. And then restarting. Worked for me.

Edit: I tried booting to the LiveCD using the one that doesn't have UEFI in the beginning, however, the screen just stays on the Syslinux screen. It's only when I use the UEFI usb can I boot into the menu of trying it out, installing ubuntu and the third option.

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-06-06
Lilkidz,

I recommend you start a new thread to resolve your problem; "hijacking" another thread is generally considered bad form, and it can get very confusing trying to resolve two problems in a single thread.

That said, you may want to try ELILO rather than GRUB 2; in my experience, GRUB 2 on UEFI systems is barely functional and very trouble-prone. See my post (#5) in [this thread.](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10887349)

---

### Post by emoguitarist06 on 2011-06-10
What is VAAPI?
Without video acceleration does that mean 720p & 1080p videos don't work? or does it mean they run really sluggish?

Video acceleration obviously works under windows correct?

I was debating to either get the 1215B or the 1215P
I know since everything is Intel the 1215P will work out of box
(which was also reported on this thread by someone else)
but I want the HDMI out that the 1215B has. Overall would everyone still recommend the 1215B??

Also does the 1215B come with 1 USB 3.0 jack in the USA??

Thank you!

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-06-10
VAAPI is the Video Acceleration API that Intel uses for video acceleration.  It can also work in conjunction with VDPAU for NVIDIA or XVBA with AMD when utilizing the proper wrapper.  Without it, low end CPU hardware will have a tough or impossible time playing back HD video.  Basically it is the software that allows the hardware to do the decoding.  Currently VAAPI is broken in 11.04 and will crash any video player trying to use it.  As far as I can tell from testing, it hasn't worked right since 1.0.1 and we are now at 1.0.8 in the official repos and 1.0.12 if you get it from a PPA.

As to my previous posts, I enabled the Pre-release repo and installed a number of upgrades, including some Compiz updares.  My whole desktop got much smoother and I don't have the lag and stutters nearly as much now on any of my systems.  Video acceleration whether it be VDPAU VAAPI or VAAPI via XVBA (for my AMD hardware) is still really broken and drags the whole Unity interface to a crawl.  Even my i7 system gets laggy when using VDPAU our VAAPI.  However, my 1215b is much smoother now with everyday tasks.

If 720 and 1080p video is a must for you RIGHT now then this system may not be for you.  My 1215B is not my primary system so I can afford to wait for them to straighten the video bugs out.  If you want it and can hold off moving it to Linux, everything works with Windows 7.

---

### Post by emoguitarist06 on 2011-06-10
Thanks for the quick response and explaining everything. It makes sense now :)

Man that's a tough decision.

Well do you have any recommendations for a netbook or tiny laptop that has HDMI out and can play 720p or 1080p and run smoothly with Ubuntu?

I was hoping to go with an all Intel like the 1215P but that one can't run HD movies and no HDMI out.

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-06-10
If you want something that works right now you could look for a netbook with NVIDIA ION in it.  It would only have an Intel Atom CPU and wouldn't be able to do much in the way of heavy lifting tasks like video editing, the ION graphics chip would be able to play back 1080p video through VDPAU.  Though VDPAU seems iffy in 11.04 10.10 worked fine for me and should be able to run on one of these.  I would run 10.10 on the 1215B but it's too new and the wireless doesn't work out of the box without updating the kernel and related firmware packages.

[http://www.amazon.com/Seashell-1201N-PU17-BK-12-1-Inch-Black-Netbook/dp/B002ZLOR56](http://www.amazon.com/Seashell-1201N-PU17-BK-12-1-Inch-Black-Netbook/dp/B002ZLOR56)

Something like this would work.  It's basically the Intel/NVIDIA version of the 1215b.

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-06-10
I just looked at your signature and saw the 1201. Lol.  There isn't much middle ground if you're looking for that level of ultra portable.  You could try for something like a 13 inch laptop with an Intel i3.  That is capable of playing back 1080p video without using the video chip and hardware acceleration.

---

### Post by emoguitarist06 on 2011-06-10
> **lakerssuperman said:**
> If you want something that works right now you could look for a netbook with NVIDIA ION in it.  It would only have an Intel Atom CPU and wouldn't be able to do much in the way of heavy lifting tasks like video editing, the ION graphics chip would be able to play back 1080p video through VDPAU.  Though VDPAU seems iffy in 11.04 10.10 worked fine for me and should be able to run on one of these.  I would run 10.10 on the 1215B but it's too new and the wireless doesn't work out of the box without updating the kernel and related firmware packages.
> **lakerssuperman said:**
> I just looked at your signature and saw the 1201. Lol.  There isn't much middle ground if you're looking for that level of ultra portable.  You could try for something like a 13 inch laptop with an Intel i3.  That is capable of playing back 1080p video without using the video chip and hardware acceleration.


Yeah Nvidia is still sluggish and even videos less than 720p are poopy sometimes haha
Yeah I'm going to have to sacrifice something... sounds like weight and portability :( lol
I guess I just want too much out of our current available consumer technology

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-06-10
I have an HTPC running a Atom / ION setup and it can play 1080p.  Do you mean it has problems with local video clips or are you talking about Flash video on Youtube and the like?

Also, are you using VDPAU and, if so, through what player?

---

### Post by emoguitarist06 on 2011-06-10
> **lakerssuperman said:**
> I have an HTPC running a Atom / ION setup and it can play 1080p.  Do you mean it has problems with local video clips or are you talking about Flash video on Youtube and the like?

Also, are you using VDPAU and, if so, through what player?

Well I'm using the drivers that automatically installed when Ubuntu 11.04 installed.
And both, youtube or my own videos. Anything HD is crap... actually 720p or greater is pretty much unplayable

I use totem or VLC

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-10
Review this walk through and make sure you have everything installed and updated correctly:

[http://cinderbox.net/2011/04/03/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/](http://cinderbox.net/2011/04/03/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/)

If you don't have the extra software installed from that guide, you will probably not be able to use VLC and other media players to their full potential either :)

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-06-10
In order to get hardware acceleration you need to use a player that supports it either directly or through a VAAPI wrapper such as what VLC does.  Try installing Gnome Mplayer and making sure VDPAU is also installed, you can just search for it in Synaptic to check.  Then go into the Gnome Mplayer settings and select VDPAU as the video output plugin.  It is spotty on 11.04 but in 10.10 this should work just fine and give you, at least, local playback of HD content.  Flash is a little more tricky.  The latest Flash plugin supports acceleration through VDPAU but I haven't gotten the same smooth results with that as I have with local files.

---

### Post by Wahlgren on 2011-06-16
Wish I found this thread before I bought my Asus Eee PC 1215B. I've used Ubuntu 11.04 and everything was ok until I noticed sleep mode didn't work and other small annoying problems. Installed Ubuntu 10.10 but that was even worse! Didn't find my wireless broadcom card.

So, anyone got 11.04 to work well with Asus 1215b?

---

### Post by aryzing on 2011-06-17
I'd say i got it to work fairly well: everything works except for the sleep. My fix so far has been to replace the sleep function for the "hibernate" or whatever its called that powers it down. Minor video issues but a restart always solves the problem when things go bad. No sound through HDMI though... Dual screen works good though through both vga and hdmi both in extend and duplicate functions. Id say the sleep annoyance is not that big of a dealbreaker for buying this laptop.

---

### Post by steve7777777 on 2011-06-19
> **lakerssuperman said:**
> **If you want something that works right now you could look for a netbook with NVIDIA ION in it**.  It would only have an Intel Atom CPU and wouldn't be able to do much in the way of heavy lifting tasks like video editing, the ION graphics chip would be able to play back 1080p video through VDPAU.  Though VDPAU seems iffy in 11.04 10.10 worked fine for me and should be able to run on one of these.  I would run 10.10 on the 1215B but it's too new and the wireless doesn't work out of the box without updating the kernel and related firmware packages.

[http://www.amazon.com/Seashell-1201N-PU17-BK-12-1-Inch-Black-Netbook/dp/B002ZLOR56](http://www.amazon.com/Seashell-1201N-PU17-BK-12-1-Inch-Black-Netbook/dp/B002ZLOR56)

Something like this would work.  It's basically the Intel/NVIDIA version of the 1215b.

I'm looking for a netook and have come to the same conclusion. We have an older Acer Aspire 1410. Everything works with Ubuntu desktop 10.10, although I haven't tried the webcam. Sound, wireless WPA2, all solid and no configuration needed. The AMD E350 seems really nice, but I'm going to wait a little longer.

---

### Post by bakape on 2011-06-26
If anyone is still struggling with sound problems, I don't know what exactly did the trick or if both, but try flashing to the latest bios and picking up the restricted drivers.

---

### Post by bosserer on 2011-06-27
Problems/not working things found on my 1215B so far:

1) switch user not working
 -> When I try to switch user from the "power button" dialog (upper right corner), the 1215B goes to black screen. Can still be used "blindly", i.e. keyboard and mouse still work. 
reason: I suspect the graphics driver (AMD proprietary installed)
Solution: None found so far. Hope this gets better with Ubuntu 11.10 or next driver version

2) skype audio not working
-> Output is distorted, input (internal mic) not working occasionally.
reason: known skype w/ pulseaudio bug
solution: remove pulse audio and replace with alsa (not confirmed, yet to try)

3) sometimes does not power off
-> after shutting down from the shutdown menu, the 1215B occasionally does not turn off. Either the ubuntu shutdown screen remains or the terminal.
reason: not known.
solution: not known. I will try to find/file a bug in Launchpad

Thats all from me so far,

any comments welcome

Regards,
bosserer

---

### Post by SickNick on 2011-06-27
Everything working here except for sleep.
I did sound through HDMI with no issues. You just have to change the output in the sound settings so it is on HDMI and it works right away. I honestly have no issues with the 1215b at all except sleep, which is not that serious to me. Also the AMD fusion chip is officially supported/optimized in Kernel 3.0 so well see it soon enough.

---

### Post by bakape on 2011-06-29
> **bosserer said:**
> Problems/not working things found on my 1215B so far:

3) sometimes does not power off
-> after shutting down from the shutdown menu, the 1215B occasionally does not turn off. Either the ubuntu shutdown screen remains or the terminal.
reason: not known.
solution: not known. I will try to find/file a bug in Launchpad

Thats all from me so far,

any comments welcome

Regards,
bosserer

Rest assured the last one is not hardware specific. Happened on my original Atom netbook occasionally. 

> **SickNick said:**
> Everything working here except for sleep.
I did sound through HDMI with no issues. You just have to change the output in the sound settings so it is on HDMI and it works right away. I honestly have no issues with the 1215b at all except sleep, which is not that serious to me. Also the AMD fusion chip is officially supported/optimized in Kernel 3.0 so well see it soon enough.

As said before, turning off C6 in the BIOS CPU configurations fixes the sleep issues. So the only letdowns with this laptop are plymouth, VAAPI and user switching.

---

### Post by Nohajc on 2011-07-03
Well, I've just got this eee and decided to try Arch Linux on it. I know that here you're trying to get it working in ubuntu but I thought I just let you know you can have VLC-VAAPI working flawlessly in the latest Arch. 

You just need to recompile ffmpeg with --enable-vaapi and install vlc (normal package from extra without any further patches). 
After I couldn't get it working in mplayer which was crashing all the time I was actually quite surprised to see this doing its job right after the first start without any complaints.

---

### Post by bakape on 2011-07-06
> **Nohajc said:**
> Well, I've just got this eee and decided to try Arch Linux on it. I know that here you're trying to get it working in ubuntu but I thought I just let you know you can have VLC-VAAPI working flawlessly in the latest Arch. 

You just need to recompile ffmpeg with --enable-vaapi and install vlc (normal package from extra without any further patches). 
After I couldn't get it working in mplayer which was crashing all the time I was actually quite surprised to see this doing its job right after the first start without any complaints.

How did you get --enable-vaapi to work? When I tried compiling with the latest git repositories, it  gave me "ERROR: vaapi not found". 
Thank you in advance!

---

### Post by Nohajc on 2011-07-07
Well, you need packages *libva* and *xvba-video* (from AUR). 
And don't forget to use ATI's proprietary driver *catalyst* in order to get this working.

With these, you shouldn't have any trouble...

---

### Post by bakape on 2011-07-07
> **Nohajc said:**
> Well, you need packages *libva* and *xvba-video* (from AUR). 
And don't forget to use ATI's proprietary driver *catalyst* in order to get this working.

With these, you shouldn't have any trouble...

Thank you! Was lacking the xvba backend, now it works. Sadly even with VA 720p playback is flaky in comparison to windows. Oh well, maybe with kernel 3.0 an newer drivers I won't have to reboot to watch a video. Thanks again!

---

### Post by Nohajc on 2011-07-09
There is one more tip: To achieve smooth playback you have to uncheck "Unredirect fullscreen windows" in Compiz settings. I even have a feeling that when using non-composite window manager like metacity, the performance was actually worse.

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-07-10
Just to update my experience with this device.  I have since tried various other distros and *buntu flavors.  I am currently running Xubuntu because the system is too laggy with Unity or KDE.  This is pretty sad considering how well Windows 7 ran on this device when I first bought it.  Suspend still doesn't work and video acceleration is still not functioning as well.

To be completely honest, I wouldn't recommend using Linux on this device right now.  In my opinion, suspend and video acceleration are key features that need to work to justify this device.  It does give very good battery life and can meet basic needs, but considering what the hardware is actually capable of, it is a disappointment.

I know the CPU is not the most powerful thing in creation but it has a Radeon 6000 level GPU and can't even smoothly do desktop effects.  That may well be the fault of the FGLRX drivers, but they are required to get the most out of the hardware.

Hopefully, the support will improve over time as the drivers and software advances.

---

### Post by Wahlgren on 2011-07-12
I installed Xubuntu as well and think it works way better than Windows and Ubuntu 11.04. Got a performance boost so to say and with synapse software its fast and easy to open applications and search the web. But one thing I have a problem with at the moment is the touchpad. It seem to have a life of its own sometimes and I can't use it smoothly. It can work really good for a few minutes, but then it goes all wild on me. Is there a way to fix the settings? Already checked under mouse settings but not much to do there.

Also, the sleep mode works if one disables C9 in bios settings. I donno what C9 does and can't find an answer to it, but can confirm sleep mode does work with the propriety drivers and C9 disabled.

---

### Post by renoirbleu on 2011-07-13
I think the problem of touchpad is innated in this model.
I saw many posts in the forum of Windows 7 users having this lap top are talking about the same problem. I'm expecting from ASUS to solve this issue and maybe release a fixed version sooner or later..... This makes me hesitant to to purchase this product for the time being. :p

---

### Post by Nohajc on 2011-07-13
Regarding the touchpad issue (which I am also having - it is a common problem, unfortunately), you may wanna look here:
[http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=89461](http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=89461)

There is a proposed fix which involves disassembling the case and removing something from the touchpad area. :D
  I'm hesitant to try it, maybe I just get a mouse.

---

### Post by renoirbleu on 2011-07-13
There's a risk of tearing off the original sealing (that's what I heard) in the process of removing the silver stuff and to avoid that, it demands an extreme care. It is also highly possible if you are not "subtle" enough, some parts around the area may break or whatsoever... All I want to say is that it is a shame to have such product in the market !
Very disappointing.

---

### Post by Wahlgren on 2011-07-22
About the touchpadd issue it sounds a bit drastic to open up the computer and start tinker with it. But I've fixed allot of laptops before so should be ok. Just wanna let you people now something really strange happened. I installed Fedora 15 to try it out and for some reason the touchpad works perfect! Didn't even have to make any settings for the mouse, just works and Gnome 3 is awesome! :)

---

### Post by SickNick on 2011-07-23
I can confirm that the audio works completely on my Asus, including HDMI out. You just need to change the output setting on the Ubuntu sound settings.

Webcam works.

Sleep works after disabling C6. -> What is C6 btw?

Installed Jupiter for power reserve. Anyone now any other ones other than that one?

---

### Post by renoirbleu on 2011-07-24
> **Wahlgren said:**
> About the touchpadd issue it sounds a bit drastic to open up the computer and start tinker with it. But I've fixed allot of laptops before so should be ok. Just wanna let you people now something really strange happened. I installed Fedora 15 to try it out and for some reason the touchpad works perfect! Didn't even have to make any settings for the mouse, just works and Gnome 3 is awesome! :)

Do you mean by installing Fedora 15 the touchpad issue can just go away without opening up the laptop? What's Fedora 15 btw? :p

---

### Post by eliot.lim on 2011-07-25
I installed Xubuntu 11.04. With 11.04, the things you need to install are merely the fglrx proprietary driver, and the Broadcom bcm4xxx driver. Even then, wireless and two-finger scrolling work out of the box.

As for the touchpad, I sometimes have issues with random jumping or scrolling. Some experimentation with scenarios pointed to: having one finger on the button while moving the mouse and having oil on the touchpad. Either of these might contribute to the non-responsiveness or quirky behaviour.

C6 is a new 'sleep' state for the processor. Being new, the kernel or fglrx driver may not support it. Sometimes after sleep or locking the screen, the screen will remain black, and the system unresponsive. This for me has resulted in two reinstalls.

---

### Post by maccgyver on 2011-07-25
hi. I use Zorin os 5 ( Z5 is a derivate of ubuntu 11.04) and everything works out of the box :D. Try it and send me feedback.

---

### Post by SickNick on 2011-07-25
Does anybody's microphone work?

---

### Post by Wahlgren on 2011-07-27
> **renoirbleu said:**
> Do you mean by installing Fedora 15 the touchpad issue can just go away without opening up the laptop? What's Fedora 15 btw? :p

I was a bit to fast with the answer on that one. It seemed to work, but after a while the touchpad got slow and useless, then after a while it worked good again? I can tell for sure that the touchpad worked much better in Fedora 14 than Ubuntu 11.04 and reason for this I don't now.

But I got some good news for everyone with the touchpad problem. I check this forums thread [http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=89461&p=1](http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=89461&p=1) and it explain a quick fix of removing a silver pad

[IMG]http://i283.photobucket.com/albums/kk281/redvexx1/2011-06-25185543.jpg[/IMG] 

and for me this did the trick! Really happy Asus 1215B user now and also just upgraded with an Corsair Force 3 GT SSD :popcorn:


> **maccgyver said:**
> hi. I use Zorin os 5 ( Z5 is a derivate of ubuntu 11.04) and everything works out of the box :D. Try it and send me feedback.

Even sleep mode?

---

### Post by Bennnn on 2011-07-30
I can vouch for the touchpad fix.  I did it a month or so ago.  Rather than removing the pad I moved it a bit and covered it with electrical tape.  Here's a good picture of the culprit [http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?pid=758864#p758864](http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?pid=758864#p758864). In hindsight I'd probably remove it entirely because mine's still not perfect, but it is much, much better so I haven't bothered to open up the laptop again.

---

### Post by Bennnn on 2011-07-30
If you experience distorted audio, especially noticeable with skype and sip clients, but also reported with vlc, the fix here worked for me:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/751265/comments/23](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/751265/comments/23)

Apparently the configuration change works around an alsa driver issue and is not just an ASUS 1215B issue.

---

### Post by sikes on 2011-08-06
> **lakerssuperman said:**
> I received my SSD in the mail yesterday and managed to get Ubuntu 11.04 running on it.

Out of curiosity, what SSD did you install? I'm looking to put one in this wee beast.

---

### Post by devout on 2011-08-07
> **linuxinstalledfromhdd said:**
> Review this walk through and make sure you have everything installed and updated correctly:

[http://cinderbox.net/2011/04/03/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/](http://cinderbox.net/2011/04/03/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/)

If you don't have the extra software installed from that guide, you will probably not be able to use VLC and other media players to their full potential either :)

Does anybody know what happened to this content.
I found it really useful, now it appears to be removed.
The link redirects to [http://cinderbox.net/cgi-sys/suspendedpage.cgi](http://cinderbox.net/cgi-sys/suspendedpage.cgi)

Found it here...
[http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/07/05/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/](http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/07/05/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/)

---

### Post by MetaDark on 2011-08-13
Hey, for those who want the best out of their graphics on this machine get [the catalyst driver]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English"). Make sure if you already have the FGLRX driver installed from "Additional Drivers", remove it.

Now once installed, you shouldn't notice much of a change, however if you read on I will tell you how the make the drivers very smooth with compiz.

First open CompizConfig Settings Manager (install it if you don't have it) and click on OpenGL. Then under the OpenGL settings unclick Sync To VBlank. I was lucky to randomly find it [here]("http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/unity-choppy-with-ati-graphics-card-and.html"). I am not 100% sure what this option does however it does drastically improves the performance of compiz with the ATI driver.

Compiz should now be very snappy however you might see some tearing. To fix that, open the ATI Catalyst Control Center. Then click on Display Options > Tear Free. Just enable the tear free desktop and you are good to go.


My Netbook now runs Compiz smoother than my desktop XP

---

### Post by SickNick on 2011-08-14
I installed the latest drivers from the ATI website and this did not solve the issues when playing back high definition video. Is there any solution for this?

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-08-14
I am investigating a new version of livba 1.0.14 that hit the repo today.  It worked with the NVIDIA backend for VAAPI.  I am setting up 11.04 on one of my Radeon Cards and I will report back.

Also, I am running Ubuntu 11.10 alpha on my 1215b and suspend seems to work now.  The FGLRX driver doesn't work currently on 11.10 so I can't test the acceleration feature as yet.

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-08-14
After just giving it a go with my Radeon 4870 and the latest FGLRX drivers, sadly I have to report that it still does not work.  XBMC crashes as soon as a video is loaded.  At this point I just want to throw all my ATI/AMD stuff in the garbage.  It is maddening.  AMD drivers continue to be awful.  They don't work properly with anything.  

I say this out of frustration because I like their hardware and want to support the company and use their stuff, but this makes it really hard to do.

In my little Linux dream world, I wish they would straighten out their tear free desktop performance issues and just give it up and support VDPAU.

---

### Post by MetaDark on 2011-08-15
> **SickNick said:**
> I installed the latest drivers from the ATI website and this did not solve the issues when playing back high definition video. Is there any solution for this?

I've been running 720p DVD rips without a problem. Have you tried disabling syncing to VBlank in compiz and then enabling tear-free in the ATI Catalyst Control Center?

I am guessing syncing to VBlank is a crude alternative to the tear-free desktop in the Catalyst Control Center.

---

### Post by sangief on 2011-08-24
hi everyone!

i'm planning to buy this netbook soon, but i really need it to run ubuntu without noticeable issues... as far as i could see right here, the following things have some trouble:

[LIST]
[*]sound
[*]touchpad
[*]sleep
[/LIST]

can anyone confirm this and expand the list if necessary?
i guess i can live with a buggy sleep, but sound and touchpad are crucial for me. does anyone know if these issues can be definitely solved?

thanks in advance!! :D

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-08-28
I am currently running the latest 11.10 alpha on my 1215b.  Touch, sound and sleep all work.  Performance is also much improved over 11.04.  I haven't gotten to test whether VAAPI acceleration works as of yet.  11.10 is obviously not production ready but will be coming out in about 2 months which is not ideal but may help you in your decision.

---

### Post by thi3000 on 2011-08-28
[SIZE=4]I don't have any netbooks, but from the architect it seems similar to that of a notebook and I wouldn't change anything to further complicate things so I would think that ubuntu 11.04 would workout just fine for those and if you are having issues with sleep, there are forums posted on writing or changing the script. [/SIZE]

---

### Post by lazmd on 2011-08-30
I got mine 1215b working with natty fine, the only issue I have is that sometimes it doesn't boot. When I power it on, after splash screen I see just a cursor blinking. It's very strange but removing the battery solves the issue. Any ideas why?

PS: For those of you who have trouble with video acceleration, follow [this]("http://alisnic.net/blog/?p=100") guide

PS2: to get flash acceleration working, create directory /etc/adobe and write this to to /etc/adobe/mms.cfg:
EnableLinuxHWVideoDecode=1
edit: looks like it doesn't work with this either

PS3: updating the bios made the netbook feel kinda faster

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-08-31
That guide got VAAPI working on my 4870.  Nice work.  Hopefully in the future this will be as simple as installing VDPAU and we won't have need to manually add things to get acceleration, but for now this is a great step in the right direction.  Now hopefully Adobe will release Flash with VAAPI acceleration.

---

### Post by lazmd on 2011-09-01
> **lakerssuperman said:**
> That guide got VAAPI working on my 4870.  Nice work.  Hopefully in the future this will be as simple as installing VDPAU and we won't have need to manually add things to get acceleration, but for now this is a great step in the right direction.  Now hopefully Adobe will release Flash with VAAPI acceleration.

Thanks, I wrote it myself.

About the simplicity of the setup, I heard that vaapi will be included by default in oneiric.

---

### Post by krka on 2011-09-01
> **lazmd said:**
> I got mine 1215b working with natty fine, the only issue I have is that sometimes it doesn't boot. When I power it on, after splash screen I see just a cursor blinking. It's very strange but removing the battery solves the issue. Any ideas why?

PS: For those of you who have trouble with video acceleration, follow [this]("http://alisnic.net/blog/?p=100") guide

PS2: to get flash acceleration working, create directory /etc/adobe and write this to to /etc/adobe/mms.cfg:
EnableLinuxHWVideoDecode=1
edit: looks like it doesn't work with this either

PS3: updating the bios made the netbook feel kinda faster

Thanks for the video acceleration guide, but I can't find xvba-video in that new repository, and when I look in that repo manually with a browser here [http://ppa.launchpad.net/rexbron/bugfixes/ubuntu/pool/main/x/xvba-video/](http://ppa.launchpad.net/rexbron/bugfixes/ubuntu/pool/main/x/xvba-video/) I see some tarballs for xvba-video but no debian package.

I guess I'll try installing the tarball instead, but I just thought I'd let you know that the deb is missing :)

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-09-02
> **lazmd said:**
> Thanks, I wrote it myself.

About the simplicity of the setup, I heard that vaapi will be included by default in oneiric.

Great work.  I really hope they do include it and have it fully functional.  ATI/AMD used to be a big piece of crap and still has it's problems, but by and large ATI/AMD hardware has become very usable and functional.  Having hardware acceleration by default would really help the usefulness of such hardware.

---

### Post by lazmd on 2011-09-02
> **krka said:**
> Thanks for the video acceleration guide, but I can't find xvba-video in that new repository, and when I look in that repo manually with a browser here [http://ppa.launchpad.net/rexbron/bugfixes/ubuntu/pool/main/x/xvba-video/](http://ppa.launchpad.net/rexbron/bugfixes/ubuntu/pool/main/x/xvba-video/) I see some tarballs for xvba-video but no debian package.

I guess I'll try installing the tarball instead, but I just thought I'd let you know that the deb is missing :)

You don't have to manually browse the repo, just the add it to your apt:
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:rexbron/bugfixes
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install xvba-video

xvba-video package in that repository is for **natty** only

---

### Post by krka on 2011-09-02
> **lazmd said:**
> You don't have to manually browse the repo, just the add it to your apt:
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:rexbron/bugfixes
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install xvba-video

xvba-video package in that repository is for **natty** only

Yeah, I tried doing exactly that, but the package xvba-video simply wasn't found. I was using Ubuntu 11.04 on Asus 1215B (the one with E-350 cpu)

Not sure what I did wrong. I just started browsing the repo to figure out why I couldn't find the package.

---

### Post by lazmd on 2011-09-02
> **krka said:**
> Yeah, I tried doing exactly that, but the package xvba-video simply wasn't found. I was using Ubuntu 11.04 on Asus 1215B (the one with E-350 cpu)

Not sure what I did wrong. I just started browsing the repo to figure out why I couldn't find the package.

that's very strange, maybe apt failed to update the repo from ppa.
try updating again

---

### Post by lazmd on 2011-09-02
A pretty good solution to get rid of sleep issues is to install 3.0 kernel in natty, but that also involves using beta video drivers. A wrote a simple guide how to do it [here]("http://alisnic.net/blog/?p=122")

Tested on my 1215b, so far the only issue is that video acceleration stopped to work, i'll try to fix it and post updates with my progress.
update: it seems that fglrx is not working with this kernel

---

### Post by lazmd on 2011-09-03
All my attempts on getting fglrx to work with 3.0 kernel in natty failed, i think it's due to fglrx's dependencies to newer libraries that are pressent only in oneiric. Theoretically it's possible to get it done by adding some ppa's but:
- i dunno which exactly
- it will probably transform your natty into a messed up mutant radiated with oneiric libraries

So for now, the only solution is to wait for oneiric release or use the beta.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-09-12
The package is called xvba-va-driver.

---

### Post by Wahlgren on 2011-10-07
Any news about Asus 1215B with Ubuntu? I'm waiting patiently to install Ubuntu again, but from reading so far there still seem to be many problems.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-10-07
No issues, even h/w acceleration works with vlc provided right steps are followed.

---

### Post by Wahlgren on 2011-10-10
> **Linuxisfast said:**
> No issues, even h/w acceleration works with vlc provided right steps are followed.

Interesting. So battery usage is stable, you can watch HD videos on YouTube without cutting frames and sleep mode works? The heat control is ok as well?

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-10-10
> **Wahlgren said:**
> Interesting. So battery usage is stable, you can watch HD videos on YouTube without cutting frames and sleep mode works? The heat control is ok as well?

Depending on usage, I get around 5 to 5.5 hours on battery, HD movies are fine on VLC, Flash doesn't support VAAPI so no h/w acceleration but Lightspark and Gnash do. Suspend doesn't work if ATI drivers are installed but with stock open source it works. The system runs more or less same temp as running Windows depending on load.

---

### Post by FX2908 on 2011-10-11
How can i activate VAAPI so that the system uses the GPU unit as well as flash? Is it possible to play youtube 720p at the moment?

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-10-11
> **FX2908 said:**
> How can i activate VAAPI so that the system uses the GPU unit as well as flash? Is it possible to play youtube 720p at the moment?

Flash doesnt support vaapi even if its enabled. Install ati driver, download xvba-va driver from [http://www.splitted-desktop.com/static/libva/xvba-video/](http://www.splitted-desktop.com/static/libva/xvba-video/) and then add catalysthacks ppa from [https://launchpad.net/~dtl131/+archive/catalysthacks](https://launchpad.net/~dtl131/+archive/catalysthacks)

Install vlc and enable GPU acceleration in inputs and codecs.

---

### Post by FX2908 on 2011-10-11
So at the moment we can only have GPU acceleration in VLC?

Thanks for the fast anwser.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-10-11
For movie players yes, for Unity etc. its enabled by default once driver is installed.

---

### Post by FX2908 on 2011-10-11
neverthless it seems that ubuntu runs slowly... its a shame, i would love to use it to its full extend.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-10-11
> **FX2908 said:**
> neverthless it seems that ubuntu runs slowly... its a shame, i would love to use it to its full extend.


Compared to what? The Win7 started that my 1215 came with almost made me return it till I installed Ubuntu.

---

### Post by aelg on 2011-10-13
Seems like the hibernate/sleep issue, where the 1215b doesn't recover from sleep, is caused by the ATI/AMD  FGLRX video driver. If you uninstall the driver from the driver manager sleep works. Unity will not work though, and no videoacceleration. I read somewhere that this issue with FGLRX is fixed in the newest driver from the ATI website. I haven't been able to get this driver running, it installs but libGL is placed wrong and everything seems to be in the wrong places. 
I'm running 11.10 might be why the driver don't install.

---

### Post by SickNick on 2011-10-14
I updated to the official release of Ubuntu 11.10 and I see a big difference in performance. I am sure this is because of the new kernel 3.0 which is optimized for AMD Fusion APU. I wanted to see what everyone is using for power management. This thing can pull about 10 hours on Windows. I was using Jupiter before with good results(about 8 hours)  but I wanted to know if anyone has any experience with anything else that is good.

P.S. I have an issue installing the AMD drivers, but the open source ones seem to be working very good

---

### Post by FX2908 on 2011-10-18
How can i remove the ATI drivers and install the open source ones so that suspend works?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-10-18
> **FX2908 said:**
> How can i remove the ATI drivers and install the open source ones so that suspend works?

Thanks.

If you have installed via hardware drivers, go to the applet and simply de-activate and reboot.

---

### Post by SickNick on 2011-10-22
I also realized that Gnome 3 does not work with the AMD drivers. 

This really sucks because I have been using Unity for 6 months now and I can officially say, I don't like it at all. Gnome 3 is way easier to multitask on, and prettier.

Is everyone with an AMD driver having gnome 3 problems?

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-10-26
I now have a fully update 11.10 install on 1215b.  Suspend generally works, however certain times it won't go to sleep and becomes stuck, necessitating me pulling the battery to get it to pop back on.  I'm not happy about this, but it works more often than it used to, so hopefully support for this is maturing.

As for battery life, I get 5+ hours of good use out of it, perhaps closer to six depending on the task.  It may be capable of more and I would love if it gave me more, but near six hours is a nice place to start before tweaking.

For video I am running VLC 1.1.12 with the latest xvba-video package from the Splitted Desktop website. I am not getting any acceleration on any AMD/ATI hardware I have at this point.  This problem doesn't seem confined to AMD hardware either.  I did a quick test on my primary desktop which has an NVIDIA 560ti in it and ran VLC with VDPAU-vaapi backend and got high CPU usage there as well.
 
However, running unstable builds of XBMC with vaapi enabled, I do get acceleration with about 15-20% usage on both cores of my Fusion notebook.  One issue I have noticed is that 1080p video is totally corrupted and won't play properly.  I only get working sound.  Interestingly, the problem seems confined to the Fusion chip as I tried the same setup and video clip on my Radeon 4870 and it played the 1080p file without any issues.

I must say that, aside from some minor issues, I am very pleased with this notebook.  11.10 is worlds better than 11.04 was when I first put it on the my 1215b.  Hopefully support continues to improve.  AMD drivers have improved, but I really wish they would put more time into them.  The Fusion platform is very appealing and the weakest link, unfortunately, is the drivers.

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-10-26
@SickNick

There is a known issue with the current AMD drivers and Gnome 3.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865257](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865257)

I really like AMD for various underdog supporting reasons, but their driver support is just awful on Linux.  It has gotten much better, but it is still nowhere near as good as NVIDIA.

---

### Post by kev94 on 2011-10-27
Hi lakerssuperman, 

Could you tell me exactly how did you get Ubuntu 11.10 running successfully on your 1215b laptop ?
Because I got the same, though I tried to install Ubuntu without success. Didn't get Grub to work properly. 

Would the proprietary drivers solve your 1080p video decoding issue ?

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2011-10-27
i had a problem with the 11.04 installation (after install it booted straight to win7 anyway as if there was no ubuntu) and fixed the problem by reinstalling grub from liveusb.
in my case it was:
```
sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda
```
maybe your issue is similar.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-10-27
When you boot into the BIOS to set boot priority order for your CD/DVD drive, make sure to select the entry for your drive and not the UEFI, then make sure to do manual partitioning by creating new partition.

I don't use suspend and hibernate wake up is slow here compared to regular boot, video works fine with vlc and xvba driver with 30% max load for HD vids and HDMI out works good as well.

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-10-27
As mentioned, make sure you are selecting the boot device and not the UEFI setting in the boot menu.  Also, make sure you don't have the USB drive plugged into the USB 3.0 port as it won't boot and load correctly with this port.  Using any of the other USB 2.0 ports worked well.

Once you do this, you shouldn't have any other issues installing Ubuntu.

@Linuxisfast

You have VLC working with hardware acceleration?  Are you using 11.10 and if so what did you do to get it working?  It works fine with XBMC, but on VLC I don't get any acceleration on either of my AMD machines.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-10-27
> **lakerssuperman said:**
> As mentioned, make sure you are selecting the boot device and not the UEFI setting in the boot menu.  Also, make sure you don't have the USB drive plugged into the USB 3.0 port as it won't boot and load correctly with this port.  Using any of the other USB 2.0 ports worked well.

Once you do this, you shouldn't have any other issues installing Ubuntu.

@Linuxisfast

You have VLC working with hardware acceleration?  Are you using 11.10 and if so what did you do to get it working?  It works fine with XBMC, but on VLC I don't get any acceleration on either of my AMD machines.
lakesuperman,

In Natty I would have to add catalysthacks ppa for vlc and xvba-va driver from Splitted Desktop, now with Oneiric, all I do is install FLGRX via repo, install vlc and xvba and vainfo shows that hardware acceleration is enabled. Can you post your vainfo results btw?

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2011-10-27
Vainfo says that everything checks out and it is running properly, identifying what it can accelerate.  It reports that the following modes are supported:
VAProfileH264High
VAProfileVC1Advanced

I just did a test with two clips, both 720p.  I ran them with VLC and with XBMC.  Under XBMC neither core exceeded 20% usage according to the internal CPU usage analysis.  When I windowed XBMC and checked the System Monitor numbers it was in the 20-25% range, which I can understand as the Monitor tends to incur some overhead.  Under VLC the same clips were using more between 40-50% of both cores as reported by the System Monitor.

I find it odd that there is so much difference between the two.  Perhaps acceleration is working in VLC, just not as efficiently as XBMC and the higher numbers were leading me to believe that it wasn't working at all.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-10-27
> **lakerssuperman said:**
> Vainfo says that everything checks out and it is running properly, identifying what it can accelerate.  It reports that the following modes are supported:
VAProfileH264High
VAProfileVC1Advanced

I just did a test with two clips, both 720p.  I ran them with VLC and with XBMC.  Under XBMC neither core exceeded 20% usage according to the internal CPU usage analysis.  When I windowed XBMC and checked the System Monitor numbers it was in the 20-25% range, which I can understand as the Monitor tends to incur some overhead.  Under VLC the same clips were using more between 40-50% of both cores as reported by the System Monitor.

I find it odd that there is so much difference between the two.  Perhaps acceleration is working in VLC, just not as efficiently as XBMC and the higher numbers were leading me to believe that it wasn't working at all.


Agreed, its a mess but then if you turn off compiz by using Unity 2D, the CPU usage drops noticeably over Unity 3D.

---

### Post by tuggy on 2011-11-11
Hi everyone,

Been thinking in buying this laptop for my work, but I need to connect it to projectors (vga) to do some presentations.
How's the support for that?

thanks!

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-11-11
> **tuggy said:**
> Hi everyone,

Been thinking in buying this laptop for my work, but I need to connect it to projectors (vga) to do some presentations.
How's the support for that?

thanks!

It works as long as you have the drivers for ati installed. You need to go to AMD applet to select the monitors, not via displays.

---

### Post by tuggy on 2011-11-11
> **Linuxisfast said:**
> It works as long as you have the drivers for ati installed. You need to go to AMD applet to select the monitors, not via displays.

thanks. for what I read in the previous posts, having the ATI drivers means no suspend, right?

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-11-11
> **tuggy said:**
> thanks. for what I read in the previous posts, having the ATI drivers means no suspend, right?


Yes but its the same case with Win7, no suspend with ATI, even with latest drivers.

---

### Post by tuggy on 2011-11-11
> **Linuxisfast said:**
> Yes but its the same case with Win7, no suspend with ATI, even with latest drivers.

well, that kinda sucks, coming from a macbook... not used to turn the laptop on and off all the time ;)
thanks!

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-11-11
> **tuggy said:**
> well, that kinda sucks, coming from a macbook... not used to turn the laptop on and off all the time ;)
thanks!

Thankfully the boot speed is blazingly fast in Ubuntu. One of the reasons I encourage all users of Linux to buy System 76 products, they are made to work with Linux like Macbook does with OSX.

---

### Post by FX2908 on 2011-11-13
I don't know if anyone has already seen this but i'm running the latest ATI proprietary drivers and using this script:

[http://thecodecentral.com/2011/01/18/fix-ubuntu-10-10-suspendhibernate-not-working-bug](http://thecodecentral.com/2011/01/18/fix-ubuntu-10-10-suspendhibernate-not-working-bug)

I have, at least for know, working suspend.

---

### Post by FX2908 on 2011-11-26
Another update, seems that with Fubuntu everything works out-of-the-box.

---

### Post by steve7777777 on 2011-11-28
> **FX2908 said:**
> Another update, seems that with Fubuntu everything works out-of-the-box.

Everything works? Really? That's good news I'm considering ordering the 1215B for use Ubuntu (or Fubuntu).

---

### Post by Andabx on 2011-12-02
> **FX2908 said:**
> I don't know if anyone has already seen this but i'm running the latest ATI proprietary drivers and using this script:

[http://thecodecentral.com/2011/01/18/fix-ubuntu-10-10-suspendhibernate-not-working-bug](http://thecodecentral.com/2011/01/18/fix-ubuntu-10-10-suspendhibernate-not-working-bug)

I have, at least for know, working suspend.

Mine doesnt' work using that fix. Sometimes wakes sametimes don't.

---

### Post by FX2908 on 2011-12-04
Indeed it seems, that after some time it doesn't work. Any news about this issue (suspend/hibernate)?

---

### Post by The Recorder on 2011-12-16
Haven't read all the comments on this thread, but I thought that I mention this for those people who are having trouble installing ubuntu on a 1215b, from a usb stick.  The following worked like a charm for me (after 24 hours of frustration).

From this link:  [http://askubuntu.com/questions/70025/how-do-i-install-on-an-uefi-asus-1215b-netbook](http://askubuntu.com/questions/70025/how-do-i-install-on-an-uefi-asus-1215b-netbook)

---------------------

0 down vote
	

i had the same problem and finally i got Ubuntu installed!

I did it that way:

    Use Unetbootin to make an usb-stick.
    Download the distribution you like (Ubuntu daily in my case)! WITH UNETBOOTIN!
    Press Esc when the asus boot screen appears and choose your usb-stick (not uefi).
    I installed Ubuntu with standard configuration and partitioning and it it runs very good.

linkimprove this answer
	
edited Nov 17 at 7:42
N.N.
2,4553930
	
answered Nov 16 at 10:18

---

### Post by The Recorder on 2011-12-20
Can someone tell me the temperatures they are getting for their cpu?  One message in this thread says that they're getting the same temperatures as in a Windows 7 setup.  What are those temperatures?  Under non-intensive use (video, internet, etc.), I'm getting between mid 50's and 60 degrees centigrade.  Have no idea whether this is normal.

---

### Post by kr00lplatinum on 2012-02-18
> **lazmd said:**
> I got mine 1215b working with natty fine, the only issue I have is that sometimes it doesn't boot. When I power it on, after splash screen I see just a cursor blinking. It's very strange but removing the battery solves the issue. Any ideas why?

PS: For those of you who have trouble with video acceleration, follow [this]("http://alisnic.net/blog/?p=100") guide

PS2: to get flash acceleration working, create directory /etc/adobe and write this to to /etc/adobe/mms.cfg:
EnableLinuxHWVideoDecode=1
edit: looks like it doesn't work with this either

PS3: updating the bios made the netbook feel kinda faster

Regarding the "sometimes it doesn't boot" issue. The solution is to go into your bios and turn of C6. 

Cheers!

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2012-02-18
> **The Recorder said:**
> Can someone tell me the temperatures they are getting for their cpu?  One message in this thread says that they're getting the same temperatures as in a Windows 7 setup.  What are those temperatures?  Under non-intensive use (video, internet, etc.), I'm getting between mid 50's and 60 degrees centigrade.  Have no idea whether this is normal.

Thats the same I am getting, some who have installed Jupiter with eeePC script claim to get lesser as it enables the SHE engine which is done in Windows 7.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2012-02-18
> **kr00lplatinum said:**
> Regarding the "sometimes it doesn't boot" issue. The solution is to go into your bios and turn of C6. 

Cheers!

Turning off C6 would mean that suspend won't go into deep state of sleep with 0v.

---

### Post by rykel on 2012-04-23
I am going to get a 1215B for myself but I realised that there is now a 1225B. They are so very similar!

Do you happen to have this new version and can you please advise me on which is the better deal? eg. I was told that the 1225B RAM is soldered onboard (bad)...

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2012-04-23
> **rykel said:**
> I am going to get a 1215B for myself but I realised that there is now a 1225B. They are so very similar!

Do you happen to have this new version and can you please advise me on which is the better deal? eg. I was told that the 1225B RAM is soldered onboard (bad)...

Soldered is no good but max RAM on these units is about 2GB.

---

### Post by Ramblerrr on 2012-05-14
> **Linuxisfast said:**
> Soldered is no good but max RAM on these units is about 2GB.

Huh? The 1215b I have has 2 DIMM sockets and is currently equipped with 6gb of RAM with no issue.

---

### Post by Ramblerrr on 2012-05-14
> **The Recorder said:**
> Can someone tell me the temperatures they are getting for their cpu?  One message in this thread says that they're getting the same temperatures as in a Windows 7 setup.  What are those temperatures?  Under non-intensive use (video, internet, etc.), I'm getting between mid 50's and 60 degrees centigrade.  Have no idea whether this is normal.

Mine is all over the place depending on what I am doing and what kind of environment I am in - what I can tell you is that it shuts itself down at ~95C which sounds high but hasn't resulted in lasting damage over the 20 or so times its happened to me ( I was rendering stuff while in Thailand with no aircon ).

---

### Post by rykel on 2012-09-05
I am running Ubuntu 12.04 on Asus 1215B (Radeon 6320). Due to the many guides out there trying to solve the AMD (or is it ATI) Suspend problem - which none of them did - I supposedly uninstalled all the proprietary driver(s) and is running the open source one again.

However, how do I know that my open source driver is definitely running optimally without messed up config files? (ie. how can I "reset" the open source driver and its config files to factory default?)

Thanks for advice.

---

### Post by aryzing on 2012-09-05
Hi, I too am using the non-proprietary drivers. Luckily, I dont require graphics intensive applications. Now the overall experience is much more stable (on ubuntu 12.04, that is). I dont know how to reset the original configuration, but I suspect that simply disabling the proprietary drivers should be enough.

---

### Post by marfilgonca on 2012-09-18
It's perfect on my Asus except for the ATI Drivers, it doesn't work, everytime I install it it gets too slow. I had to wait one minute to boot ubuntu (I don't have windows 7 installed), now I'm running Fuduntu (which has native support to ATI graphic cards) and it lasts 24 seconds.
One good advice is to make a clean install then you install ATI through the official Catalyst drivers provided by ATI on its website. If necessary reinstall it until it works 100%.
I haven't done so because I am loving fuduntu, but I'm having some problems with hdmi audio output, but I'm working it out.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2012-09-18
I have the 1015B which is basically the same netbook with smaller screen. I have always installed ATI drivers and have never had any issues. Everything including video acceleration and HDMI works flawlessly. The only thing that doesn't work is suspend and thats a BIOS and ATI issue as suspend works like a charm on my other ASUS laptop with same ATI drivers and Ubuntu. In case you don't wish to install Ubuntu drivers, the default installation of 12.04 provides open source Radeon drivers for your system.

---

### Post by SickNick on 2012-10-08
I am running 12.04 and I am still having the shutdown issue since I got this laptop. I think about 70% of the time it hangs on shutdown and I have to hold the power button for 10 seconds to force it to shut down. Does anyone have this problem?

---

