---
title: "12.04 ... LibreOffice 3.6 very unstable?"
date: 2012-11-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by edgue on 2012-11-18
Hello there,

I recently added the corresponding PPAs, and now I am running 3.601 on my Ubuntu 12.04. LO 3.5 was running really stable; I rarely remember any crashes. 3.6 seems to be the complete opposite ... I have one presentation somewhere ... typing F5 ... crash. I have one huge writer document ... saw that crashing several times today. Could there be a problem with my installation ... or do other people encounter the same far-more-frequent crashes experience?

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2012-11-18
I'm running LO 3.6.2.2 in the development version of Kubuntu 13.04 and see regular crashes in Calc.

I don't know where the problem lies but simply moving a selection of cells to the left causes Calc to crash every time. It may be LO, it may be that the spreadsheet is corrupt or something else. When I have time I'll try the same edit on an earlier version of LO on a stable release of Ubuntu/Kubuntu/Lubuntu.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2012-11-18
Might be worthwhile upgrading to 3.6.3 which has a small number of bugfixes, some related to Calc:

[http://download.documentfoundation.org/libreoffice/src/bugfixes-libreoffice-3-6-3-release-3.6.3.2.log](http://download.documentfoundation.org/libreoffice/src/bugfixes-libreoffice-3-6-3-release-3.6.3.2.log)

Bear in mind that these are not *all* of the fixes, only the '*most prominent*' ones. Running 3.6.3 here with no instability...

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2012-11-19
> **andrew.46 said:**
> Might be worthwhile upgrading to 3.6.3 which has a small number of bugfixes, some related to Calc:

[http://download.documentfoundation.org/libreoffice/src/bugfixes-libreoffice-3-6-3-release-3.6.3.2.log](http://download.documentfoundation.org/libreoffice/src/bugfixes-libreoffice-3-6-3-release-3.6.3.2.log)

Bear in mind that these are not *all* of the fixes, only the '*most prominent*' ones. Running 3.6.3 here with no instability...

Thanks.

LO 3.6.3 hasn't hit the official repositories yet and as Canonical patch LibreOffice I'm going to hang on until they make 3.6.3 available.

I really do need to find the time to test my spreadsheet in other versions of LibreOffice and the Ubuntu family though. After so many crashes and recovering of the workbook I suspect that it may have become corrupted in some way as I've also lost some conditional formatting that doesn't 'stick'. ](*,)

Anyway, Calc shouldn't crash but helpfully display an message to advise that there is a problem that it cannot deal with. :confused:

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-11-19
> **PaulW2U said:**
> I'm running LO 3.6.2.2 in the development version of Kubuntu 13.04 and see regular crashes in Calc.

I don't know where the problem lies but simply moving a selection of cells to the left causes Calc to crash every time. It may be LO, it may be that the spreadsheet is corrupt or something else. ...
I'm using Version 3.6.2.2 (Build ID: da8c1e6) (**direct from libreoffice.org** and not from a ppa) on Lubuntu 12.10.

I haven't noticed Calc crashing at all and I even moved a selection of cells to the left.

It should be simple enough to test whether it's because your spreadsheet is corrupt.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2012-11-19
> **PaulW2U said:**
> LO 3.6.3 hasn't hit the official repositories yet and as Canonical patch LibreOffice I'm going to hang on until they make 3.6.3 available.

I will admit that I have not checked this out but it would be interesting to see what sort of patches are used (and if these patches are fed back upstream!).

---

