---
title: "Issues with Kile while running gnome, and odd graphics problem"
date: 2009-09-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by w0ss4g3 on 2009-09-11
Hi,

Under 8.04 (on my laptop) I was running Kile without any issues, all working fine, etc etc.

I'm now running 9.04 on a new machine in my office, and am having some strange issues with Kile.. half of the drop down menus and such no longer work, for example, the "Sectioning", "Other" and "Size" drop down lists do no work at all.

The differences between this and my old install as far as I know is that this is a newer version of Kile - 2.1 instead of 2.0 on my laptop.

Anyone have any suggestions how I can get the functionality of the latest version of Kile back to that of 2.0 (or whichever is the one which is in the 8.04 repositories?)

Another issue I have, which is completely unrelated to Kile.. but I figure while I'm starting a thread I may as well ask here too..


I'm running dual-screen's (both 1280x1024) off an old-ish ATI x1900XT card.. since the ATI drivers don't work with the latest kernel, I'm using the default radeon driver. I have areas of the screen where the mouse appears to go very "fuzzy".. it's almost like they are very small stripes running down the screen where if I stop there mouse there it will create these fuzzy marks.. however if I take a screenshot they are not there, even if the stripe is a repeated mouse pointer down the screen or something. As far as I know this doesn't happen in single screen mode.. but I haven't tried very hard to recreate it there.

Again, any help with that problem would be greatly appreciated.

Figured I should chuck my xorg.conf in here for the 2nd bit I asked about:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

#Section "InputDevice"
#        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
#        Driver          "kbd"
#        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
#        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
#        Option          "XkbLayout"     "gb"
#EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
#        Driver          "mouse"
#        Option          "CorePointer"
#EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Radeon x1900"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	2560 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Radeon x1900"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option          "AccelMethod"			"EXA"
	Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
	Option		"MigrationHeuristic"		"greedy"
	Option		"Tiling"			"false"
EndSection

#Section "ServerLayout"
#        Identifier      "Default Layout"
#        Screen          "Default Screen"
#        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
#        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
#EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

