---
title: "16.04 freezing kinda problems, any ideas?"
date: 2016-09-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by javan-cardillo on 2016-09-11
OK so ive been having freezing problems i hope someone can help me with. OK some info on the machine its a asus g60vx with 2 hard drives one with linux one with vista, vista isnt having any issues that arnt windows problems, however ubuntu for what ever reason has freezing problems, so heres what happens when it freezes, any audio from youtube or a music player will still be playing for about 10mins before it starts to skip and then stop, also the mouse pointer will still be movable however will not be able to click or affect anything on screen and will stop moving when the audio cuts off, all keyboard inputs will stop working when it freezes even though the mouse is movable and i will be forced to hold down the power button till it shuts off. Now it only will do this if i have music playing, or a video on youtube playing and am doing something else weather its on firefox or a app it will randomly freeze, or it will also freeze if i have more then one app running at a time. Also it will freeze if i have a app open and leave the laptop alone for 10 or 15mins, also i can no longer put my laptop to sleep and have to shut it off as when i wake the laptop from sleep it will freeze the moment i login in and try to do anything. Again when it freezes the mouse is movable but all other inputs dont work.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-09-12
It is impossible to help you without knowing more about your hardware specs.

CPU?
RAM?
Graphics card?
Also the flavour of Ubuntu, Xubuntu, Lubuntu, etc etc?

---

### Post by javan-cardillo on 2016-09-12
4 gigs of ram, Intel® Core&#8482;2 Duo CPU P7350 @ 2.00GHz × 2, nvidia geforce gtx260m with 1 gig of ram, 64bit ubuntu 16.04 LTS is all i know about the os.

---

