---
title: ".sh file won't run once copied to partition in other drive :("
date: 2016-12-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by javierdl on 2016-12-20
I suppose this is about "permissions".
How to get a .sh executable file to remain an executable even after copying it over to a partition in other drive?
I am running out of space in the SSD drive where I have Ubuntu 16.04 (3 accounts), so I need to start moving as much as I can out.

Thanks guys,

JDL

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-12-20
Given that you quote the word "permissions", I gather that you don't understand the permission system used by Linux and its relatives. Have a read here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions)

Partition types like fat32 or ntfs, used by Windows and most usb drives, don't support the type of permissions used by Linux. I think ntfs has its own kind of permissions for use on Windows, but that doesn't work on Linux. So you can't simply give execute permissions to a file stored on a fat32 or ntfs partition. It may be possible to mount the entire partition with execute permission on all files (by default it's only on the directories), but that doesn't sound like a very good idea security-wise. You can format the partition to something more Linux-compatible like ext4 (making it no longer readable by Windows, in case you dual-boot). You can also run .sh files by executing the shell with the .sh file (which I assume is a shell script) as command line argument:```
bash script.sh
```Or just keep the shell scripts on your SSD. They aren't usually the big files consuming all your disk space.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-12-20
Another possibility is that the mounted partition has the "noexec" option enabled.  Take a look at the entry for the filesystem in /etc/fstab.  I also agree with impavidus that you should only use NTFS/FAT filesystems to store data.  Anything you want to run should reside in an ext* filesystem.

---

### Post by javierdl on 2016-12-21
Thank you so much guys!
Based on your information, I decided to format that external partition to ext4, then copied the game's folder to it, and I was able to run the .sh file both, from my account, and from that of my daughter (which is what I wanted the most), so now she can run the game from her account without depending on me.

Thanks a lot guys :)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2016-12-22
If your problem is solved to your satisfaction, please mark the thread 'Solved' under Thread Tools at the top of the page. Thanks!

---

