---
title: "7.10 Is Slow!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lowlux2gmail.com on 2007-10-19
just upgrader from 7.4 why is my boot up 50% slower?

---

### Post by SqdnGuns on 2007-10-19
Upgrade = Slow

Fresh Install = FAST

---

### Post by lowlux2gmail.com on 2007-10-19
Why?!

---

### Post by mooha on 2007-10-19
had the same issue, I'm back to 7.04

---

### Post by RedGreen on 2007-10-19
> **SqdnGuns said:**
> Upgrade = Slow

Fresh Install = FAST

> **lowlux2gmail.com said:**
> Why?!

I have also been experiencing pretty slow boot times.

Although nothing else is slow. Is it everything that is slow for you?

Any ideas about this anyone?

---

### Post by alex30002 on 2007-10-19
> **SqdnGuns said:**
> Upgrade = Slow

Fresh Install = FAST

not really, i`ve just upgraded, and my gutsy runs fast like 7.04 :popcorn:

---

### Post by CM Xtasy on 2007-10-19
> **RedGreen said:**
> I have also been experiencing pretty slow boot times.

Although nothing else is slow. Is it everything that is slow for you?

Any ideas about this anyone?

I did a fresh install on a 20gb partition and everything was slow :|

---

### Post by lowlux2gmail.com on 2007-10-19
everything is running slow.. even my desktop...

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-10-19
> **SqdnGuns said:**
> Upgrade = Slow

Fresh Install = FAST

Not totally true. I upgraded my laptop to Gutsy and it runs as fast as Feisty if not faster.

---

### Post by rfruth on 2007-10-19
I had to turn off indexing  (system > preferences) cause Gusty was way too slow (at first ?)

---

### Post by JFo NZ on 2007-10-19
I've done a fresh install. 7.10 seems to boot faster and the desktop is quick.

---

### Post by ElEdwards on 2007-10-22
This is what solved it for me......

I tried doing an fresh install (not an upgrade) three times.... and every time EVERYTHING was painfully slow.  I was about ready to give up and go back to 7.04 and posted that thought here on the boards (it's in the Testimonials).

Someone else posted there that maybe I had a bad iso download or a bad burn..... so I figured "Well, why not?".... did another download, another cd burn, another fresh install....

....and that is what made the difference!!  Now 7.10 is much faster and far superior to 7.04.  I love it!

I quickly tossed my first cd to the trash can ;)

I hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by scottmuz on 2007-10-22
Gutsy feels faster than fiesty for me and the boot time
is definately better. I have disabled the tracker indexing.

I have upgraded through 4 ubuntu releases, and have never done
a fresh install. Proper upgrades was the main reason why I came to
ubuntu from fedora (where you have to download 6 CDs).

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2007-10-22
> **rfruth said:**
> I had to turn off indexing  (system > preferences) cause Gusty was way too slow (at first ?)

Yes, indexing takes hours, but it is worth it, for the speed of Tracker searches. Both 32 and 64-bit 7.10 seem at least as fast as 7.04 on two of my boxes.

---

