---
title: "'._' added to all image.jpg attachments"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by trash on 2009-05-08
I have a file of some 800 images from a friends machine that needed backing up. Some of these images I now use in emails to friends and clients.
The folder is on my desktop and all the images are named properly(image001.jpg) however when i attach them to emails they become ._image001.jpg and nobody can view them... I'm guessing it's a permission problem but how can i fix it?

---

### Post by monsterstack on 2009-05-08
How odd. A couple of questions. What email software are you using? And secondly, are there any hidden files at all in that folder?

```
cd ~/Desktop/the-name-of-your-image-folder
ls -la

```

Will tell you.

---

### Post by trash on 2009-05-09
OMG DUH!!! I don't know how that never even crossed my mind LOL. THANK YOU!

Any idea how i ended up with duplicate hidden files??

---

### Post by monsterstack on 2009-05-09
I'm sorry I haven't a clue. :) If you want to delete all the hidden files in a certain directory, run

```
rm -r .??*
```

Just be careful not to run that command when you're in your home folder :o

---

### Post by m4lte on 2009-05-09
Mac OS X usually creates copies of files with the ._ prefix to store some additional information. Anybody in your vincinity using a mac?

---

### Post by trash on 2009-05-09
Hmm yes, I think i used my ibook before it died... but i don't remember seeing this before. I was just thinking it might have been a slideshow app that may have created it.. as i deleted them i noticed a DS program file!

---

### Post by m4lte on 2009-05-09
Well, usually files with a leading '.' in the file name are hidden in Mac as well as Linux system. So you might have not noticed.

---

### Post by trash on 2009-05-09
Possible i never noticed them on the mac yes..
Is there anywhere I can change that way the chooser sees files by default? I actually find it annoying that hidden files/directories are included by default when doing something like attaching files to emails.

---

