---
title: "9.04  A GRUB question"
date: 2009-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-19
I have Ubuntu 9.04 installed on a partition.
I have Windows XP on another partition.

I wanted to check out Ubuntu Version 9.10. I was going to do this with the cd, but my brain slipped a cog and I installed it in another partition.

Now I want to remove Ubuntu 9.10, but it is has GRUB control.

I have read that I can reinstall GRUB using the cd, but I do not know the steps to take.

So, I want to format the Ubuntu 9.10 partition and the restore GRUB to the Ubuntu 9.04 partition.

:confused:

---

### Post by mike555 on 2009-10-19
you can just edit grub to not see the Ubuntu install , assuming it's on the MBR ......... then reinstall Ubuntu or whatever.

there are lots of posts on grub , a quick search will give you more info.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-19
Yes, I searched again and found my answer.

I have to take more time on these things, I guess.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-19
> **thelugnut said:**
> Yes, I searched again and found my answer.

I have to take more time on these things, I guess.

Id say your question is specific enough that youll not easily find an answer with the forum search.

I once tried going back from grub 2 to grub 1 in jaunty, using a live cd, and while i eventually managed, it was anything but easy.

In 9.04, do you have grub 1 or 2?

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-19
I haven't a clue! Be it 1 or 2?

And don't know how to find out. Is that a version number or what?

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-19
If you didnt explicitly install grub2, then you'll have a grub1 configuration under jaunty and grub 2 on Karmic (and on your MBR I suspect, your current grub menu will probably show grub 1.97 or something, right?)

Anyway, if you are going to restore grub from a livecd, wipe the karmic partition first, then before rebooting, use this how to to restore grub1:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351)

That should put grub1 on your mbr again. I hope.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-19
Thanks P4man, I appreciate very much your information. I learn so much from this forum, but never seem to get any smarter...
But this problem is solved ! Thanks !

---

