---
title: "8.04 user, problem with folder previliges"
date: 2008-08-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by artheus on 2008-08-30
Hey!

I've just installed a copy of aMSN, and now I want to change the appearance of it. So I checked out the 'skins' section of the program, and found out the exact way, how to find a new skin and install it. The installation procedure was supposed to be pretty simple, just copy and paste the folder I've downloaded and put it into '/usr/share/amsn/skins' but when I got to that part, I encountered a problem. I did not have the privileges to change the content of that folder in any way, because 'You are not the owner of this folder'. And I can see that the owner of the folder is 'root'. So how do I gain access to my own folders? In my own computer?
I thought I had all the privileges, because I am the Administrator of the computer, and the only user..

Cheers,
Artheus

PS : I'M A LINUX-NEWB!!!!

---

### Post by Tzimisce on 2008-08-30
I entered Linux with this same mindset, however I quickly learned to move files from the terminal.

Linux does not let you modify key files (important ones), even as your main account. Only the root account can do that. You can use the sudo command to temporarily invoke this power.

sudo mv /path/to/target/f.ile /path/to/destinat.ion

for you: sudo mv /path/to/folder /usr/share/amsn/skins/

---

### Post by Vivaldi Gloria on 2008-08-30
Or press ALT+F2 and start

```
gksudo nautilus
```

which will give you root rights.

---

### Post by artheus on 2008-08-30
thank you! this solved my problem :)

---

### Post by flameproof on 2008-11-05
> **Vivaldi Gloria said:**
> Or press ALT+F2 and start

```
gksudo nautilus
```

which will give you root rights.

This solved also my problem:

Directories that were created in /home/...../ on 8.10 from Win Xp could not change the permission with the "you are not the owner..." message. "gksudo nautilus" did the trick!

Owner is still not set to the 8.10 user, but at least directories are open.

---

