---
title: "Ubuntu 8.10 and Wacom Cintiq 21 on an intell mac mini"
date: 2009-03-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pittmantechno on 2009-03-18
I am having a tough time getting a Wacom Cintiq 21 working,
I have scoured the forums i am a bit of a linux nubbie 
I have tried 3 or 4 of the posts - on my system 
this one seams to have taken me the farthest,
but It fails on the cp command i get a no such directory error 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=897582](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=897582)

cd ~/Desktop

wget [http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/linuxwacom/linuxwacom-0.8.1-4.tar.bz2](http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/linuxwacom/linuxwacom-0.8.1-4.tar.bz2)

tar xjvf linuxwacom-0.8.1-4.tar.bz2

cd linuxwacom-0.8.1-4

./configure --enable-wacom

make

sudo make install

sudo rmmod wacom

sudo cp ./src/2.6.24/wacom.ko /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/drivers/input/tablet/wacom.ko

this is where i stopped 


sudo depmod -e

sudo modprobe wacom

ls -l /dev/input

ls -l /dev/input/by-path

dose any one have any suggestions ?? I really want to set this system up as a demo machine for artists who may want to experiment with the free world =) -

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-18
Hi pittmantechno,

You shouldn't need to compile your linuxwacom drivers.  0.8.1-4 is in the Intrepid repositories.  Search "wacom" in the Synaptic Package Manager.

You could also get deb.s for 0.8.1-6 at Loic2's Wacom wiki:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wacom")

Which will also give you more information.  For example on how to configure your xorg.conf.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by pittmantechno on 2009-03-18
Thank you ! I'll check those our right away - =)

---

### Post by pittmantechno on 2009-03-18
Hello thanks again for you help !

I am still having trouble - my pen isn't working at all

I must be missing something -- here is my xorg.conf 

 i tried a few things with this the all have resulted in no pen 
 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "USB"           "on"               
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "USB"           "on"              
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "USB"           "on"               
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "pad"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"    
  Option        "Type"          "pad"
  Option        "USB"           "on"                  
EndSection


 Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "touch"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom" 
  Option        "Type"          "touch"
  Option        "USB"           "on"              
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
  Identifier    "Default Layout"
  Screen        "Default Screen"
  InputDevice   "Generic Keyboard"
  InputDevice   "Configured Mouse"
  InputDevice   "stylus"  "SendCoreEvents"
  InputDevice   "eraser"  "SendCoreEvents"
  InputDevice   "pad"                      
EndSection

thanks again !

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-18
Hi pittmantechno,

Sorry it's not working yet.  What linuxwacom driver did you install?  How did you install it?  Is your Cintiq 21 is usb (I know some were serial)?

In your "ServerLayout" section you have keyboard and mouse, but without the corresponding InputDevice sections so I commented them out.  Also the cursor refers to the Wacom hockey puck mouse (I believe) which the Cintiq doesn't have, so I commented it out also.  I am positive you do not have touch so I deleted it.

Does your stylus have buttons in addition to the eraser?  If so how many?

Be sure to back up your xorg.conf first then compare it to the one I'm posting before you make changes.
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "stylus"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "USB" "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "eraser"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "USB" "on"
EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#Identifier "cursor"
#Driver "wacom"
#Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
#Option "Type" "cursor"
#Option "USB" "on"
#EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "pad"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "pad"
Option "USB" "on"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
#InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
#InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
#InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "pad"
EndSection
```
I'm not sure why there aren't video sections in your xorg.conf.  So I left the Screen line in "ServerLayout" alone.

If your symlinks aren't in place then /dev/input/wacom wouldn't work.  Is there an entry etc/udev/rules.d/50-xserver-xorg-input-wacom.rules or something close in rules.d (only there if Cintiq is usb)?

Edit:  You can map the Cintiq buttons and sliders through "Pad" using the .xinitrc that wacomcpl sets up or you can apparently use Wacom ExpressKeys. I don't know how ExpressKeys works though.
[http://freshmeat.net/projects/wacomexpresskeys/]("http://freshmeat.net/projects/wacomexpresskeys/")
Also old Cintiq setup link:
[http://jimmac.musichall.cz/log/?p=411]("http://jimmac.musichall.cz/log/?p=411")

---

### Post by pittmantechno on 2009-03-19
Hi, 
     Thanks again I really appreciate your help !! 
I downloaded the driver from the Synaptic Package Manager 
xserver-xorg-input-wacom  1:0.8.1.6-1ubuntu2 is that the driver ? and 
Wacom tools -

My Cintiq 21 is USB and DVI - 
   Your right no pad and no Puck mouse. 
My Stylus has 2 buttons and an eraser. 
yes I have the file in   etc/udev/rules.d/50-xserver-xorg-input-wacom.rules

I'm going to play with your additions to my Xorg file - 

thanks again

---

### Post by pittmantechno on 2009-03-19
Alright,
  Sow now when i start up my machine I no longer get a message asking me to start in low graphics mode - so something good is happening.
I used your xorg thank you - I have Video on the Cintiq thats always worked fine - I still have no pen functionality - I did launch the wacomcpl - but no pen dice - I know the pen works I have a number of other systems here I can test it on - and I can see the feedback from the little blue light on the tablet when i press the pen to the screen - ?? any more tricks ?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-19
Hi pittmantechno,

Ok so you have linuxwacom 0.8.1-4 from Synaptic (drivers and tools, two packages).  They aren't working.  So I would suggest next trying the two linuxwacom 0.8.1-6 deb.s Loic2 has on his Wacom wiki.  I linked the site above.

If that doesn't work it sounds like your Wacom symlinks aren't in place.  So let's see if we can figure that out.  Type in a terminal:
```
more /proc/bus/input/devices
```
the relevant output should look something like:
```
I: Bus=0003 Vendor=056a Product=0093 Version=0330
N: Name="Wacom ISDv4 93"
P: Phys=
S: Sysfs=/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:0b.1/usb2/2-2/2-2.3/2-2.3:1.0/input/input10
U: Uniq=
H: Handlers=mouse2 event10 
B: EV=b
B: KEY=3c03 0 0 0 0 0
B: ABS=1000100001b

```
That should give us your vendor and product ID's.  Then look in /etc/udev/rules.d/ for a file labeled 50-xserver-xorg-input-wacom.rules.  Or something close to that.  In the file, in the big table you'll see where they establish the symlinks for various wacom devices see if you see a line that matches your vendor and product ID.  If not that's the problem.  We'll have to put in a symlink rule for you.

I can't remember when the LWP added Cintiq support, but I think 0.8.1-4 should be recent enough.

---

### Post by pittmantechno on 2009-03-20
Hello Favux,
                  thanks again

I installed the deb files from loic2's wiki 

wacom-tools_0.8.1.6-1ubuntu2_i386.deb

xserver-xorg-input-wacom_0.8.1.6-1ubuntu2_i386.deb

here is the output from the command you gave me, looks like my symlinks are wrong. no wacom just apple hmm 

Code
> dss@dss:~$ more /proc/bus/input/devices
I: Bus=0017 Vendor=0001 Product=0001 Version=0100
N: Name="Macintosh mouse button emulation"
P: Phys=
S: Sysfs=/devices/virtual/input/input0
U: Uniq=
H: Handlers=mouse0 event0 
B: EV=7
B: KEY=70000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
B: REL=3

I: Bus=0003 Vendor=05ac Product=0220 Version=0111
N: Name="Apple, Inc Apple Keyboard"
P: Phys=usb-0000:00:1d.7-5.2/input0
S: Sysfs=/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1d.7/usb5/5-5/5-5.2/5-5.2:1.0/input/input3
U: Uniq=
H: Handlers=kbd event3 
B: EV=120013
B: KEY=610000 0 0 0 0 0 0 1007b 7 ff9f207a c14057ff febeffdf ffefffff ffffffff f
ffffffe
B: MSC=10
B: LED=1f

I: Bus=0003 Vendor=05ac Product=0220 Version=0111
--More--(0%)


heres my 50-xserver-xorg-input-wacom.rules code 

> 
# udev rules for wacom tablets.
# These rules were compiled for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution,
# but others may, and indeed are encouraged to, use them also.
#
# Should you do so, PLEASE CO-ORDINATE ANY CHANGES OR ADDITIONS
# of new devices with Ron <ron@debian.org> so that we can try
# to present users with with a standard set of device nodes
# which they can rely on across the board.

KERNEL!="event[0-9]*", GOTO="wacom_end"

# Port specific link for users of multiple tablets of the same type.
# The ID_PATH variable is set by the "path_id" script in an earlier rule file.
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ENV{ID_PATH}=="?*", SYMLINK="input/by-path/$env{ID_PATH}-wacom"

# Multiple interface support for stylus and touch devices.
DRIVERS=="wacom", ATTRS{bInterfaceNumber}=="00", ENV{WACOM_TYPE}="stylus"
DRIVERS=="wacom", ATTRS{bInterfaceNumber}=="01", ENV{WACOM_TYPE}="touch"

# Type-named links for multiple tablets.  If you want to use multiple
# tablets of the _same_ type, you will probably need to use the links
# from /dev/input/by-path to identify which is plugged into what usb
# port.  For different tablet types though, just pick your links from
# the list below.
#
# We override SYMLINK for tabletpc devices because the by-path link
# is not required with such devices, there will only ever be one.
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0000", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-penpartner"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0003", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-cintiq_partner"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0010", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-graphire"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0011", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-graphire2-4x5"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0012", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-graphire2-5x7"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0013", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-graphire3"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0014", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-graphire3-6x8"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0015", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-graphire4-4x5"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0016", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-graphire4-6x8"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0017", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-bamboofun-4x5"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0018", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-bamboofun-6x8"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0019", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-bamboo1-medium"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0020", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos-4x5"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0021", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos-6x8"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0022", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos-9x12"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0023", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos-12x12"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0024", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos-12x18"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0030", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-pl400"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0031", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-pl500"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0032", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-pl600"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0033", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-pl600sx"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0034", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-pl550"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0035", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-pl800"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0037", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-pl700"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0038", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-pl510"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0039", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-dtu710"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="003f", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-cintiq21ux"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0041", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos2-4x5"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0042", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos2-6x8"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0043", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos2-9x12"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0044", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos2-12x12"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0045", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos2-12x18"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0047", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos2-6x8a"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0060", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-volito"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0061", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-penstation2"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0062", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-volito2-4x5"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0063", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-volito2-2x3"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0064", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-penpartner2"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0065", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-bamboo"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0069", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-bamboo1"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0081", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-graphire_bt-6x8"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0090",  SYMLINK="input/tablet-tpc90"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0093",  SYMLINK="input/tablet-tpc93-$env{WACOM_TYPE}"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="009a",  SYMLINK="input/tablet-tpc9a-$env{WACOM_TYPE}"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00b0", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos3-4x5"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00b1", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos3-6x8"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00b2", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos3-9x12"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00b3", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos3-12x12"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00b4", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos3-12x19"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00b5", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-intuos3-6x11"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00c0", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-dtf521"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00c4", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-dtf720"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00c5", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-cintiq20wsx"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00c6", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-cintiq12wx"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="00c7", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-dtu1931"

# Convenience links for the common case of a single tablet.  We could do just this:
#ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", SYMLINK+="input/wacom-$env{WACOM_TYPE}"
# but for legacy reasons, we keep the input/wacom link as the generic stylus device.
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ENV{WACOM_TYPE}!="touch", SYMLINK+="input/wacom"
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ENV{WACOM_TYPE}=="touch", SYMLINK+="input/wacom-touch"

# Check and repossess the device if a module other than the wacom one
# is already bound to it.
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ACTION=="add", RUN+="check_driver wacom $devpath $env{ID_BUS}"

LABEL="wacom_end"

one more detail I should add - when I launch my wacomcpl file it has no devices ? it used to have a few options.
I really appreciate your help - this supper educational - im starting wrap my head around Ubuntu good stuff !

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-20
Hi pittmantechno,

Your welcome.  It's fun messing with this stuff, isn't it?

Your right, wacomcpl should show options, which means the new drivers you installed aren't installed correctly.  Also notice in your .rules that the vendor id for wacom is 056a.  And 056a isn't present in your more output.  Further saying linuxwacom isn't installing correctly.

But halfway down the table we see:
```
ATTRS{idVendor}=="056a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="003f", SYMLINK+="input/tablet-cintiq21ux"
```
And that is your model, correct?  If so we now know the symlink rule for your Cintiq.  Or at the very least, if your's isn't a ux, we are very close to knowing it.  Plus we now know it's probably a linuxwacom driver problem.

So click on the 0.8.1-6 deb.s and tell them to reinstall and let's see if that fixes it.  Be sure to reboot and restart X a couple of times.  Does wacomcpl have stylus and eraser and offer options if you click on one of them.

---

### Post by pittmantechno on 2009-03-20
Whohhooo !! it works now - after Reinstalling the deb files I restarted the machine and x a few times - boom pen works ! - and I have stylus,eraser and Pad in wacomcpl - and I am using the cintiq 21ux - I calibrated the pen through the wacomcpl - and it looks on point - I launched Gimp and there are a few strange behaviors - the pen is an inch off the paint tool ( this only happens in Gimp ) ? is their somewhere I can adjust this ? - the buttons all work on the pen but the eraser is also a brush - 

this is great thanks !!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-20
Hey pittmantechno,

Outstanding!  You are welcome.

In post #2 is the link to the Wacom wiki.  It talks about configuring Gimp towards the bottom.  I also have some stuff on post #8 here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=996830]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=996830")

Basically in Gimp and Inkscape you have to configure extended input devices.

Have fun.

---

### Post by pittmantechno on 2009-03-20
DR.Favux,

Excellent ! thanks Again your Awesome !

I'll check your links out and get Gimp configured

---

