---
title: "10.04 Can't see Wireless Connections - Dropping Connection"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jschille on 2010-05-07
I was having trouble with my wireless connection, it was dropping every 5 minutes or so after upgrading to 10.04 and ran across a thread where someone recommended entering 

```

sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-wireless-lucid-generic

```After entering the command I have lost all ability to even use my wireless ability even if it was for 5 minutes.  Now I am using a different kernel, internet still drops every 5 minutes, but would love to get my internet up and running again.

I am using a Dell Studio XPS Laptop

```

*-network
    description: Ethernet interface
    product: MCP79 Ethernet
    vendor: nVidia Corporation
   
*-network UNCLAIMED
   description: Network Controller
   product: BCM4322 802.11.a/b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller
   vendor: Broadcom Corporation

```Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by jschille on 2010-05-08
/bumping for love

---

### Post by eyalev on 2010-05-08
Same here..

---

### Post by echolight on 2010-05-09
The problem I'm having is sort of the same. I can see available networks and I connect but only for a certain period of periodic time. The connection will drop and I cannot see available connection's. I plugged the Ethernet network cable in and was able to connect to the LAN no problem. I tried restarting my Netbook and still the wireless connections fail to show. I have to shutdown the Netbook in order to correct the issue, but I have to do this every time whenever the connection drops. I am using the Aspire one netbook model number ZG5 and it has the 8GB SSD. Ubuntu operates very smoothly on this machine except for the wireless connection dropping issue.

---

### Post by jschille on 2010-05-09
Interesting new find....

When I take my ethernet cord directly from the cable box and plug into laptop it DOES NOT work.  BUT, when I take the ethernet cord from my wireless router it DOES WORK....
what the heck does that mean....

---

### Post by Scarlet_Chantel on 2010-05-09
I am having similar issues... where it drops the connection every so often since the upgrade.  I am on an MSI wind.

Thanks

---

### Post by echolight on 2010-05-10
I found another problem. I cannot connect via LAN to the Internet using a Cisco work group switch. The switch is working fine with Ubuntu 8.04 but not 10.04.

Connecting via LAN to a D-Link Router and or D-Link switch works fine. I have no idea why 10.04 will not connect to a Cisco switch. Keep getting message err eth 0.

I sure do hope the wireless dropping issue does get fixed. I turned off the Security on Both D-link and Cisco WiFi routers and the connection still drops no matter which router I am connected too. 

On a brighter note I LOVE the Movie Player. kudos to the designers. I love playing music on it and watching the effects...MUCH MUCH BETTER then Windows Media Player.

---

### Post by skrillz on 2010-05-17
I'm having the same issue with my Acer Aspire One ZG5. I've had to roll back to 9.10 until this is fixed.

---

### Post by Timtro on 2010-05-17
> **jschille said:**
> I was having trouble with my wireless connection, it was dropping every 5 minutes or so after upgrading to 10.04 and ran across a thread where someone recommended entering 

```

sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-wireless-lucid-generic

```After entering the command I have lost all ability to even use my wireless ability even if it was for 5 minutes.  Now I am using a different kernel, internet still drops every 5 minutes, but would love to get my internet up and running again.

I am using a Dell Studio XPS Laptop

```

*-network
    description: Ethernet interface
    product: MCP79 Ethernet
    vendor: nVidia Corporation
   
*-network UNCLAIMED
   description: Network Controller
   product: BCM4322 802.11.a/b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller
   vendor: Broadcom Corporation

```Any help would be greatly appreciated.

So, it looks like you're using a Broadcom wireless adapter. There are binary drivers for this. Do you get a message talking about 'restricted' drivers? If not, then trying going to system>admin>hardware drivers manager, and let it do it a quick scan.

Come to think of it, you probably did this already, otherwise you probably shouldn't have wireless at all.

Perhaps, go and get the windows xp driver off of the Dell website, and use ndis-wrapper, and see how that works.

---

### Post by Pepe Lebuntu on 2010-06-03
Living in the same nightmare.

---

### Post by jchaffeejr on 2010-06-06
I too was having the problem of a dropped connection to the internet. I have an HP DV8000 laptop with a linksys wireless N card - PCMCIA. I solved the problem by editing the network connections and changing the MTU setting from automatic to a fixed value of 1492. Since i did this the connection has never dropped. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2010-06-06
Try using the wicd wired and wireless network manager and uninstalling the pre- installed network manager. wicd can be found in the synaptic package manager.

---

### Post by g35nightrider on 2010-06-08
I too am having the same problem with wireless. It's really a deal-breaker if I don't have Wireless on Ubuntu 10.04. I have the DELL XPS Studio 16. Did anyone have luck with wicd drivers??? 
 
I can't believe this basic but critical issue hasn't been solved anywhere?

---

### Post by smallsea on 2010-08-29
> **g35nightrider said:**
> I too am having the same problem with wireless. It's really a deal-breaker if I don't have Wireless on Ubuntu 10.04. I have the DELL XPS Studio 16. Did anyone have luck with wicd drivers??? 
 
I can't believe this basic but critical issue hasn't been solved anywhere?
Yup. Me too. Just installed 10.04 desktop in dual boot with Windows 7 Professional on a Toshiba Equium L40 14l laptop, so I know the hardware works, both for wired ethernet and wireless. But although Lucid reports the internet connection to my speedtouch wireless router as good, I can't connect to any internet servers. At first Lucid connected to the internet OK but now it doesn't, although my file server running 8.04 server has no problem connecting. Is it me, or Lucid?

---

