---
title: "Console resolution changes from 9.10 to 10.04"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thefish123 on 2010-05-02
Hi everyone,

Like a lot of you I just installed the new 10.04.  The one thing I noticed was that the resolution on the console (on tty1 = tty6) has changed and is much higher now.  While this looks good and works well for Linux apps I have a problem.

I use DOSEMU to run a number of old DOS apps.  Under 9.10 I was running these on the console and these DOS apps looked almost exactly as they were intended to look.  Now, under 10.04, they have WAY too much room and look funny and the text is quite small.

Is there a way I can (I am sure there is) change the resolution back to whatever was the default in 9.10?

Best regards,
The Fish

---

### Post by thefish123 on 2010-05-04
Hi everyone,

Does someone know what the right setting is?  I have searched high and low and all I can find are instructions that relate to GRUB (original not GRUB 2).  Ubuntu is using the new GRUB.  I am half tempted to re-install 9.10 just to see what the grub files looked like.

Best regards,
The Fish

---

### Post by Gryphen on 2010-05-04
What does grub have to do with tty rez?

---

### Post by thefish123 on 2010-05-04
> **Gryphen said:**
> What does grub have to do with tty rez?Maybe I am wrong but I thought that GRUB passed to the kernel a parameter at boot time telling it what resolution to set the console.  Was I wrong?

Is there a way to change the resolution on the console(s) AFTER the system is booted?  That would be ideal.

Thanks,
The Fish

---

### Post by patrik.wallander on 2010-05-14
The you're searching for is /boot/grub/grub.cfg

---

### Post by thefish123 on 2010-05-17
> **patrik.wallander said:**
> The you're searching for is /boot/grub/grub.cfgThanks.  But that file has a notice that says:

```
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub

```Shouldn't I be editing it?

The Fish

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2010-07-21
proper way would be to follow that disclaimer - edit /etc/default/grub to include your change and then run **update-grub** to generate new valid grub.cfg

---

### Post by thefish123 on 2010-07-21
> **Vaphell said:**
> proper way would be to follow that disclaimer - edit /etc/default/grub to include your change and then run **update-grub** to generate new valid grub.cfgHi Vaphell,

Yes, your right, and I have done that.  And still no joy on changing the resolution on the console.

Everything I can find on the net about this suggests adding a VGA=??? parameter to be passed to the kernel by GRUB.  This doesn't seem to work...

I have tried both editing the file directly (the one that tells you not to) and also editing /etc/default/grub  and running **update-grub**.  Neither of these helps to change the resolution.

Thanks,
The Fish

---

