---
title: "19.10 - Login Screen Icons Oddity for Root/Admin Account?"
date: 2020-01-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-16
The login icons are normally a boring stylized grey head/torso above the login/password fields. So I decided to play around a bit to have some more attractive icons. (this is the kind of thing I do when I'm bored, sorry, but it brings me new enlightenment or questions every time).


The default icon is found in **/usr/share/sddm/faces/.face.icon** and is a 256 x 256 px PNG.


Replacing this file with a different PNG did indeed provide a new login icon, albeit for **all** users.

Placing different **.face.icon** PNG files in the "normal" user's home directories gave every user his/her own login icon. They can even select/define one themselves.

**Oddity:** in my own account, which is root and admin, I'm not able to do this. I'm only able to use the icon in the /usr/share/sddm/faces directory.

Is there any explanation for this? I've played around with chown/chmod until exhaustion, but to no avail.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-01-16
Not only the image, you can change the entire appearance of the login screen with different themes. See this posts #3,4,6 of [this thead]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2407308") for more information on how.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-01-16
> **ml9104 said:**
> in my own account, which is root... 

I've played around with chown/chmod until exhaustion

These are both very bad ideas.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-16
> **CatKiller said:**
> These are both very bad ideas.

Errm... I'm talking about using chmod/chown on the .face.icon file only. I'm well aware of the implications of doing this generally and shy away from it. My apologies for unclear phrasing on this point.

---

