---
title: "...I wish I knew more."
date: 2006-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Antarctica on 2006-11-23
I got started into computers at the age of 13.  Since then I have been working on Windows.  At the age of 16, I had the knowledge to repair any Windows computer, so I started fixing computers for people I knew.  I didn't have much programming experience except for BASIC and Pascal (what I learned in high school).

About two months ago, at the age of 18, I got fed up with Windows and gave Linux a try.  I went to [www.linux.org]("http://www.linux.org") and saw Santa Fe Linux (a live distro) and tried it on my computer.  I got lost from there.  That didn't stop me, though.  I saw that Fedora Core was a cool distribution and was Red Hat based (the only commercial Linux distro that I knew at the time), so I downloaded all 6 CDs (5 install + 1 rescue) and installed the operating system onto my slave hard drive.  I decided I would test the operating system to see if it works on my computer before installing it on my master.

I was amazed at how different Linux was compared to Windows.  Where Windows would bug you all the time and *try* to please you (like the popup balloons in the notification area), Linux did just what you wanted it to do.  I also found out how annoying Windows was compared to Linux.  For example, my college uses Windows, and every time I plug in my USB flash drive, I have to go through a lengthy installation that takes around 1.5 minutes to complete.  On my computer at home, when I connect my flash drive, I wait about 3 seconds and a launcher is placed onto the desktop.  I have come to learn how easy Linux is to operate compared to Windows.  On Windows, I would have to go to [www.mozilla.org]("http://www.mozilla.org") to download and install Thunderbird, but on Ubuntu all I have to do is go to Applications, Add/Remove and select Internet, Thunderbird and let it install itself without asking me a bunch of questions, or I can install it via the terminal (sudo apt-get -y install thunderbird), which I find easier for most applications that I know of.  Realizing this also led to my satisfaction of Linux.  About a few days ago I read an article online about why viruses would be so hard to get on Linux.  On Windows, all I would have to do is click on an attachment and I would be infected.  On Linux, I would have to download the attachment, give it executable permissions, and then run it.  I learned that the virus would only be able to destroy my home folder since it has the same permissions as me.  Learning that piece of information also told me why I should never run as root unless I am doing something that requires root privileges, and even then my session should be short and temporary.

Anyway, after I discovered how to enable my wireless card on Fedora Core 5, I installed it onto my master hard drive and said bye-bye to Windows forever.  Fedora Core was cool and I learned that my computer (Pentium II 350 MHz processor, 320 MiB RAM, nVidia Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro] graphics card, 80 GiB IDE connected hard drive) couldn't run KDE without running slow (but not as slow as Windows does sometimes), so I stuck with GNOME, which I have developed a liking to.  *And yes, I do plan to get a new computer (for all of you out there that are saying my computer is old.)*  With the release of Fedora Core 6, I got very disappointed.  After installing FC6 I tried to enable GLX for my graphics card (kmod-nvidia-legacy), and it wouldn't work.  To add misery, the people on [www.linuxquestions.org]("http://www.linuxquestions.org") and [www.fedoraforum.org]("http://www.fedoraforum.org") didn't answer my threads much when I needed help.  That was the last straw for me.  I considered going back to Windows XP, but I was determined not to.  Then, I remembered Ubuntu.  My friend Jorge told me about it.

Around late October I did a Google search for Ubuntu and came across the official website.  I saw that Edgy Eft was out, and not knowing that it wasn't recommended for first-time users, I downloaded and burned it to a CD.  I put the CD into my CD-RW drive and rebooted.  The first thing I saw was the boot options menu and a pretty logo.  I even saw the option of booting from the first hard drive, something that I found useful (I'm lazy and would be upset if I had to take out the CD and reboot.).  So, I ran the live CD, and the first thing I did was check to see if my wireless card was supported.  I was ready to install ndiswrapper (ndiswrapper.sourceforge.net) since I had to install it on Fedora Core, but I realized that I didn't have to.  My Linksys WMP54G v4 wireless etherent card worked straight out of the box for Ubuntu.  I was overjoyed.  So, I double-clicked the Install icon and went through the easiest operating system installation in my entire life.  I answered the six questions (which my grandmother could answer without questioning) and sat back and surfed the Internet while Ubuntu installed.  I thought to myself, *this is the way operating system installations should really be*.  After about an hour, I rebooted (and took the CD out too) and sat back and enjoyed Ubuntu.  Later on, to get my questions answered, I signed up for Ubuntu Forums.

I had a couple of issues with Ubuntu 6.10, Edgy Eft, and learned that version 6.04, Dapper Drake, was a LTS version and would have more and longer support than Edgy Eft, so I downgraded.  With the help of [www.ubuntuguide.org]("http://www.ubuntuguide.org") and the excellent team at Ubuntu Forums, I have had almost all my questions answered.  Some questions I were able to answer myself after browsing through the posts here.

A couple of days ago I had a weird problem with my clock not displaying in 12-hour format.  Not even the members here were able to help me resolve my problem, so I took the challenge and installed Edgy Eft onto my system and was ready to suffer the consequences if necessary.  Well, the only problem I've had so far with Edgy Eft is getting GLX to work properly, which with the help of others, I realized that composite needed to be turned off.

I haven't had any experience with C or C++ programming for the Linux platform, and I really wish to learn it.  I've come a long way from my start back in late August of this year.  I've learned a lot about Linux, probably more than what my friends could've ever learned in this amount of time.  I've fallen in love with Linux and wish never to switch back to Windows.  I have joined the open-source community, and because I have gotten everything for Linux for free, the least I feel I could do is return the favor and help others.  The only problem is that **I wish I knew more.**  I want to learn Linux inside-out, like the back of my hand.  I want to be able to read and understand questions by newcomers to Linux and be able to post back and help them out as much as I can.  I want to one day become a forum staff.  I want to help out as much as I can, but sadly I do not possess the knowledge that many others do.  Give me time and help, and I will learn.  I want to one day make my own Linux distribution.  If I can do that, then I feel that I have learned enough about Linux to be satisfied.  Whatever it takes, I will do it, and I will not give up.  Thank you everyone here at Ubuntu Forums for helping newcomers to Linux like me and thousands of others who constantly try to make their computers "just work."  Without you all we would not be where we are today.  :KS

Note:  I am really thinking about starting a website that I can put Linux tutorials and notes on.  Does anybody know a good site where I can register for a free (as in beer) subdomain?  I don't want to pay for the site, and I am hoping that the subdomain has very little or no ads, too.  Thanks.

---

### Post by Antarctica on 2006-11-23
Well, what better way to learn than by getting out there and doing some research?  That's what I'm doing right now.  I'm trying to help other users right now with as much knowledge as I have about Linux.  I hope I can accomplish something worthwhile.  :)

---

### Post by Antarctica on 2008-03-15
Sixteen months later, and I know a lot more about Linux!  Ubuntu's the best!  I've got it installed on two computers now, an AMD64 computer and an Intel 32 laptop.  I'm still learning!

---

### Post by pointone on 2008-03-16
Wow... epic story! :popcorn:

What really helped me learn GNU/Linux was switching to the exclusively command line for a while. I was forced into it for a kiosk project I was working on, and it changed the way I use computers. I experimented a lot with Arch and Gentoo afterwards, and loved every minute of it. Problem now is that I probably spend too much time playing with Linux!

Of course, I always end up returning to Ubuntu in the end! :KS

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-03-16
Sweet! You revived a dead thread from years ago and it is as fresh as it was the day it was originally written.

---

### Post by Antarctica on 2008-03-16
> **steveneddy said:**
> Sweet! You revived a dead thread from years ago and it is as fresh as it was the day it was originally written.
Lol.  Thanks.  I swear, I freaking love Ubuntu.  Fedora's nice.  I started off with it, switched to Ubuntu 6.06, then back to Windows, then to Ubuntu, then to Fedora once more (Fedora Core 8 was a failure for me), and now I'm permanently going to stick with and support Ubuntu. :)

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-03-16
> **Antarctica said:**
> Lol.  Thanks.  I swear, I freaking love Ubuntu.  Fedora's nice.  I started off with it, switched to Ubuntu 6.06, then back to Windows, then to Ubuntu, then to Fedora once more (Fedora Core 8 was a failure for me), and now I'm permanently going to stick with and support Ubuntu. :)

Cool - I went through a few *nix before settling on Ubuntu.

It's the community that hooked me.

---

### Post by Antarctica on 2008-03-16
> **steveneddy said:**
> It's the community that hooked me.

You hear that guys?  It's the community... Ubuntu's great, but the community just makes it even better!

---

