---
title: "9.10 Edited xorg.conf BIG TROUBLE"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-08
Hi,
I just upgraded to 9.10 and I was having problems with the screen resolution, so I tried this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5039883&postcount=12](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5039883&postcount=12)
I copied that into the xorg.conf file above what was already there. I saved, and attempted to reboot. And it wouldnt.
When it tries to reboot it goes to a black terminal looking screen and says: 
Ubuntu 9.10 Jason tty1
Jason login:

It's rapidly flashing that and I am unable to type anything.
I am able to go to the recovery screen before it starts flashing, but I dont know what to do once I'm there.
I am very noob. Please help me out. I have important info on there that I was stupid enough not to back up before I futzed with the xorg.conf file.
HELP!

---

### Post by Finalfantasykid on 2009-11-08
Try typing CTRL + ALT + F7.  If it did boot all the way, that should bring you to your regular desktop view.

If that does not bring you there, you might need to reconfigure your xorg.conf

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

```

Though you say you cannot type anything.  If so, you could always use a Live CD of Ubuntu and edit the file there, but I'm not sure if the above command will work as it should.

---

### Post by amingv on 2009-11-08
Since it's 9.10, I guess the easiest way around is removing the bad xorg.conf, like this:
(in the root recovery console)

```
cd /etc/X11
mv xorg.conf xorg.conf.old
```

Then type "exit" and continue the normal boot.

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-08
THANK YOU, THANK YOU, THANK YOU!
I thought all was lost, but you have saved me.

But now I am still having my resolution problem.
In the Display Preferences the biggest allowed is 800x600, and in that setting everything on my desktop is huge and smashed together. I need a bigger screen option. 
Thats what I was trying ti fix when I screwed everything up. Any advice?
Thank you again.

---

### Post by amingv on 2009-11-08
Tell us what your video card is, use this command:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```
or
```
lshw -C display
```

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-08
I did both:

lspci | grep VGA :
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 10)

lshw -C display :
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 10
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:26 memory:fe980000-fe9fffff ioport:dc00(size=8) memory:d0000000-dfffffff(prefetchable) memory:fe800000-fe8fffff

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-11-08
the info from the other thread was specific for the Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1 video card so if you didn't modify it to match your card, it won't work.

You could try the same info but change Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1 to Intel and see if it works, just make sure you back up the current xorg file first

in a terminal run this first
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
```
then edit the current xorg
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-08
> **halitech said:**
> the info from the other thread was specific for the Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1 video card so if you didn't modify it to match your card, it won't work.

You could try the same info but change Trident Microsystems CyberBlade XPAi1 to Intel and see if it works, just make sure you back up the current xorg file first

in a terminal run this first
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
```then edit the current xorg
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```


I did that and the samething happened to me again upon startup, and I had to fix it in recovery mode. This is how I put it in, was this wrong?:

```
Section "Device"
  Identifier "ntel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 10)"
  Driver "Intel"
  BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
  Identifier "Generic Monitor"
  Option "DPMS"
  HorizSync 28-51
  VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    Device        "ntel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 10)"
    SubSection "Display"
           Depth 8
           Modes "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
           Depth 16
           Modes "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
           Depth 24
           Modes "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
           Depth 32
           Modes "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
```EndSection

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-11-08
> **unknownjason said:**
> I did that and the samething happened to me again upon startup, and I had to fix it in recovery mode. This is how I put it in, was this wrong?:

```
Section "Device"
  Identifier "ntel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 10)"
  Driver "Intel"
  BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
  Identifier "Generic Monitor"
  Option "DPMS"
  HorizSync 28-51
  VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    Device        "ntel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 10)"
    SubSection "Display"
           Depth 8
           Modes "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
           Depth 16
           Modes "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
           Depth 24
           Modes "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
           Depth 32
           Modes "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
```EndSection

I'm not an expert on xorg but I don't think Intel is going to work with ntel which is how you have it in the xorg file. You may even be able to just put it in as intel instead of all of it but I'm not sure.

---

### Post by amingv on 2009-11-09
Try this in your xorg.conf:
(I'm asuming your monitor is not widescreen, please tell us if otherwise)
```
Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        DefaultDepth    24
	SubSection "Display"
		   Depth 16
		   Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		   Depth 24
		   Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Driver  "i915"
EndSection

```

Of course, please report back any error messages or problems you may encounter. (Sorry to give you so little security, but it's hard to configure hardware I don't currently have :P)

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-09
It is actually a wide screen.
[http://reviews.cnet.com/lcd-monitors/viewsonic-vx2025wm/4505-3174_7-31747549.html](http://reviews.cnet.com/lcd-monitors/viewsonic-vx2025wm/4505-3174_7-31747549.html)
1680 x 1050

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-09
You probably don't want to specify modes if you have the monitor's timing values in there. (assuming that they're correct)

Specific modes are likely to cause problems if you have HorizSync and VertRefresh values.

Xorg will figure out what resolutions will work best, and you can use the display tool to switch modes in a way that gives the best vertical refresh.

An xorg.conf that looks like:
```
Section "Device"
  Identifier "ntel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 10)"
  Driver "Intel"
  BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
  Identifier "Generic Monitor"
  Option "DPMS"
  HorizSync 28-51
  VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    Device        "ntel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 10)"
    DefaultDepth  24
EndSection
```

Will probably cause the monitor to default to 1680x1050 @ 60Hz when you restart X.

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-09
So what should I do, and how do I do it? Sorry to be a bother, I'm quite noobish.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-09
> **unknownjason said:**
> So what should I do, and how do I do it? Sorry to be a bother, I'm quite noobish.

No problem.

Open a terminal window and enter the following commands ```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.091109
sudo touch /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Now, select and copy this text and paste it into the gedit window: ```
Section "Device"
  Identifier "ntel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 10)"
  Driver "Intel"
  BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
  Identifier "Generic Monitor"
  Option "DPMS"
  HorizSync 28-51
  VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    Device        "ntel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 10)"
    DefaultDepth  24
EndSection
```

Then save it and exit gedit.

Then run: ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

That should log you off and restart the login screen (at full resolution).

If the screen goes black and stays that way, flip to the console via Ctrl-Alt-F1 and log in. Then run these two commands (you might want to write them down if you won't remember them) ```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bad
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart ; exit
```

That will get you back in and we can try to figure out what those HorizSync and VertRefresh numbers are supposed to be.


Gotta run an errand. Back in 90 minutes.

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-09
The screen went back to the black, and the Ctrl-Alt-F1 wouldn't work so I went to recovery mode and did:
```
cd /etc/X11
mv xorg.conf xorg.conf.old
```
And that got me back to "normal". 
I also edited the code that you gave me so that "ntel . . ." was "Intel"
You think changing the numbers will help?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-09
I think slowing down and breathing would help.

I do not have an answer for you but you should know that, among the many changes, under the hood, in 9.10, is the fact that the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file is, by default not included in a clean install.  It is only generated upon need.

So, if you upgraded and have this as a left over, I would remove the driver you are using and delete the file and reboot.  Make sure everything works and if you want, or need, to have the driver, install it and see what the result of that is.

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-09
> **ranch hand said:**
> I think slowing down and breathing would help.

I do not have an answer for you but you should know that, among the many changes, under the hood, in 9.10, is the fact that the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file is, by default not included in a clean install.  It is only generated upon need.

So, if you upgraded and have this as a left over, I would remove the driver you are using and delete the file and reboot.  Make sure everything works and if you want, or need, to have the driver, install it and see what the result of that is.

How would one do that?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-09
Well, it seems that you havethe trick for getting into your system (with crappy resolution down to a science.

Go to System>Administration>Hardware Drivers and see what it says.  It should say that you have a driver installed.  Remove it, that is an option.

The renaming of the xorg.conf file has nothing wrong with it.  I would just check to make sure that it is gone and not replaced even with an empty one.

Go back to Hardware Drivers and see what they offer you there.  Try it.

There has been a lot of work on drivers for 9.10.  Mainly in the generics, but the vendors have done some work too.

My ATI card works best on the generic.  But then I do not want desktop effects so I am easy (good thing - my card has little or no support anywhere but the generic).

---

### Post by amingv on 2009-11-09
The problem is, I doubt he has proprietary drivers enabled (the output of lshw -C display actually showed the driver he was using was i915).

That is also the problem with the xorg.conf that he was using earlier (and some of the ones here mentioned), that they specify "PCI:1:0:0" as the bus and "Intel" as the device driver, xorg can't find that driver and he gets dropped to the command line. Having no xorg.conf hasn't worked either, as he only gets a small resolution. I hope that makes any sort of sense :).

@unknownjason: Did you get to try the last xorg.conf I gave you? Try this one and please post any errors you may find:

```
Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        DefaultDepth    24
	SubSection "Display"
		   Depth 16
		   Modes "1680x1050" "1280x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		   Depth 24
		   Modes "1680x1050" "1280x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Driver  "i915"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-10
I had assumed that the previous xorg.conf contained usable information... Sorry.

**unknownjason**, what exactly IS the make and model of your monitor?

Once we have plugged in the monitor timing values for YOUR monitor, Xorg will default to the highest resolution and vertical refresh automatically.

I agree on the i915 chip, too; I didn't see that from earlier.

---

### Post by izak on 2009-11-10
[question moved]

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-10
@izak
This really is hijacking.  I would start a different thread and watch this one.  The OPs problem is not solved by any means.

Let us not complicate it.

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-10
[B]amingv: 
[/B]Both the new and the old didn't work. On the restart I was brought back to the black screen and had to fix it via recovery mode.

**Giblet5**:
The made and model of my screen is as follows:
ViewSonic VX2025wm
[http://reviews.cnet.com/lcd-monitors/viewsonic-vx2025wm/4505-3174_7-31747549.html](http://reviews.cnet.com/lcd-monitors/viewsonic-vx2025wm/4505-3174_7-31747549.html)

**ranch hand**:
I'm not sure, but I think other people just said that what you advised wouldn't work. Am I reading into that wrong? Should I try it?

Thanks guys.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-10
Well, I can't make that decision for you.

You would not have the xorg.conf file, the default condition of 9.10.  You would be running on the generic driver, again the default.

What you could do to to help with the problem (maybe) and this decision (probably) is download the LiveCD and try it and see how it performs in the video department.

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-10
I went to the Hardware Drivers, and it says:
No proprietary drivers are in use on this system.

So do I just need to get rid of the xorg.conf file? How do I do that?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-10
I would rename the bugger to something else like you have in terminal before or just -rm it.

It will be regenerated if you enable a driver.  Was there a driver available?

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-10
No driver available at all.
Could you actually write out the code for me to paste in to rename it? I'm not really following.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-10
The easiest way to do this is to download "nautilus-gksu";
```

sudo apt-get install nautilus-gksu

```
When you have that just right click on the file in your browser and select "Open as administrator".  You will be asked for your password.  You can now do anything you want to the file.

BE VERY CAREFUL.  Close the browser when done.  You are in "God" mode and can wipe your whole system.  Handy tool but a BIG hammer.  Big hammers are also dangerous.

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-11
> **ranch hand said:**
> The easiest way to do this is to download "nautilus-gksu";
```

sudo apt-get install nautilus-gksu

```When you have that just right click on the file in your browser and select "Open as administrator".  You will be asked for your password.  You can now do anything you want to the file.

BE VERY CAREFUL.  Close the browser when done.  You are in "God" mode and can wipe your whole system.  Handy tool but a BIG hammer.  Big hammers are also dangerous.

I did the install and did a search for the file, and I think I found it. The closest thing I could find is 'libnautilus-gksu.so' When I right click there is no option to open as admin. and when I just try to open it, it says: 
Could not display "/usr/lib/nautilus/extensions-1.0/libnautilus-gksu.so".
There is no application installed for shared library files

Whatcha think?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-11
I think you are making this all together more complicated than it needs to be.

Let us review;
the point of the execise is to get rid of the xorg.conf file
you have a permissions problem in that line
nautilus-gksu will allow you to do what you want with that file

So, try right clicking on the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and see what happens.  The option should be down toward the bottom of the right click menu.

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-11-11
why not do it the easy way. Press ALT + F2 on your keyboard and bring up the run window. Then type in
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
This will open the file so you can edit it. If you want to get rid of it, open a terminal and run
```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
If you want to rename it, do this
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.cong /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
```

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-11
> **halitech said:**
> why not do it the easy way. Press ALT + F2 on your keyboard and bring up the run window. Then type in
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```This will open the file so you can edit it. If you want to get rid of it, open a terminal and run
```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```If you want to rename it, do this
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.cong /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
```

When I go to get rid of it:
jason@Jason:~$ sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
rm: cannot remove `/etc/X11/xorg.conf': No such file or directory

If its not there, does this mean that its not the problem?

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-11-12
This is an interesting post about getting a xorg.conf set-up.[http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1221226]("http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1221226")

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-11-12
I got tired of trying this and that to get one or two extra resolutions...so I [cheated!](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8280317#post8280317)
Notice: To use my cheat you'll need a copy of the 8.04LTS live CD. This will generate an entire xorg.conf based on your system.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-12
It certainly sounds like you have it out of there.  I really wish you would simply go to /etc/X11 and LOOK.  This is not hard.

Assuming that it is gone, you can now look into a driver for your card.  You are at the default and anything you do should now improve things.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-12
This *should* work perfectly (1680x1050 @ 75Hz).

Create or edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf via: ```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Insert the following:

```
Section "Device"
    Identifier    "i915"
    Driver        "intel"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "VX2025wm"
    Option        "DPMS"
    HorizSync     82.31 - 82.31
    VertRefresh   74.89 - 74.89
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load          "glx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor       "VX2025wm"
    Device        "i915"
    DefaultDepth  24
EndSection
```

Save it and exit gedit.

Now run ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

You'll be logged off and the login screen should appear (now at 1680x1050).

Log in.

Run ```
glxinfo
``` to confirm that glx is loaded and full 3D support is enabled.

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-11-12
@ Ranch Hand
Logic says that adding a driver can't do anything besides help, but on my legacy machine when I switched from the NV to the proprietary (yes, I realize that's Nvidia and not Intel) I went from a max of 800x600 to 640x480.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-12
> **ST3ALTHPSYCH0 said:**
> @ Ranch Hand
Logic says that adding a driver can't do anything besides help, but on my legacy machine when I switched from the NV to the proprietary (yes, I realize that's Nvidia and not Intel) I went from a max of 800x600 to 640x480.

The only people who have trouble with resolutions are those whose cabling (monitor <--> gpu) do not correctly pass DDCC or EDID protocol signals.

These users are not out in the cold though, because Xorg is highly configurable, and all Xorg needs is correct "HorizSync" (in KHz) and "VertRefresh" (in Hz) values.

Supply those values in xorg.conf, and resolution is no longer an issue.

Most vendors supply those values in their specs.

You can fake it if you know the maximum resolution AND vertical refresh for the monitor.

Let's say you have a monitor with crap documentation (most TVs...) but you know the monitor can do [COLOR="Navy"]1366x768 @ 60Hz[/COLOR]:

```
cvt [COLOR="Navy"]1366 768 60[/COLOR]
# 1368x768 **[COLOR="DarkGreen"]59.88 Hz[/COLOR]** (CVT) **[COLOR="DarkRed"]hsync: 47.79 kHz[/COLOR]**; pclk: 85.25 MHz
Modeline "1368x768_60.00"   85.25  1368 1440 1576 1784  768 771 781 798 -hsync +vsync
```

The dark green portion is the calculated VertRefresh.

The dark red portion is the calculated HorziSync.

That's all you need!

Now you can create a template xorg.conf by flipping to the text console via Ctrl+Alt+F1 and running:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo X -configure
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

Log in, and you'll have a file in your home directory called xorg.conf.new. Edit that file via ```
sudo gedit xorg.conf.new
```

Scroll down to the "Monitor" section.

Add two lines between the Identifier definition and the EndSection declaration: ```
    HorizSync   47.79 - 47.79
    VertRefresh 59.88 - 59.88
```

Save it.

Use gedit's Save As to save it as /etc/X11/xorg.conf.

Then restart the X server via ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

You'll be logged off and the login screen will appear at full resolution.

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-11-12
Giblet- that is the most concise and easy to understand explaination (coupled with seeing the working one now on my machine) that I have seen. Stickying that with an xorg.conf example that has only those values as example would be a huge help!! Logic goes that if you put the lowest possible rez and the highest into "cvt", then you would have the values needed to proceed. 
Thank you so much for translating the modeline for me.... I think now I can help others with this issue.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-12
> **ST3ALTHPSYCH0 said:**
> Giblet- that is the most concise and easy to understand explaination (coupled with seeing the working one now on my machine) that I have seen. Stickying that with an xorg.conf example that has only those values as example would be a huge help!! Logic goes that if you put the lowest possible rez and the highest into "cvt", then you would have the values needed to proceed. 
Thank you so much for translating the modeline for me.... I think now I can help others with this issue.

Thanks, and you're absolutely right - using cvt can get you a good estimate of the frequency range of a given monitor.

I just posted a [HOWTO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8302145#post8302145") as well.

There are, of course many MANY other ways to achieve the same goal, but the procedure described here, and in the howto work too.

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2009-11-13
@Gilbet5

You did it! Thank you so much! My big beautiful screen is now finally being put to good use.
 Thank you so much, this is perfect.
I'm not sure what any of this means:
```
jason@Jason:~$ glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_swap_control, GLX_SGIS_multisample, 
    GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group
client glx vendor string: SGI
client glx version string: 1.4
client glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_allocate_memory, 
    GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, GLX_MESA_swap_control, 
    GLX_MESA_swap_frame_usage, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_OML_sync_control, 
    GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control, GLX_SGI_video_sync, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, 
    GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap
GLX version: 1.2
GLX extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_MESA_swap_frame_usage, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_video_sync, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, 
    GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap
OpenGL vendor string: Tungsten Graphics, Inc
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Intel(R) G33 GEM 20090712 2009Q2 RC3 x86/MMX/SSE2
OpenGL version string: 1.4 Mesa 7.6
OpenGL extensions:
    GL_ARB_copy_buffer, GL_ARB_depth_texture, GL_ARB_draw_buffers, 
    GL_ARB_fragment_program, GL_ARB_half_float_pixel, GL_ARB_map_buffer_range, 
    GL_ARB_multisample, GL_ARB_multitexture, GL_ARB_pixel_buffer_object, 
    GL_ARB_point_parameters, GL_ARB_point_sprite, GL_ARB_shadow, GL_ARB_sync, 
    GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp, GL_ARB_texture_compression, 
    GL_ARB_texture_cube_map, GL_ARB_texture_env_add, 
    GL_ARB_texture_env_combine, GL_ARB_texture_env_crossbar, 
    GL_ARB_texture_env_dot3, GL_ARB_texture_mirrored_repeat, 
    GL_ARB_texture_non_power_of_two, GL_ARB_texture_rectangle, 
    GL_ARB_transpose_matrix, GL_ARB_vertex_array_object, 
    GL_ARB_vertex_buffer_object, GL_ARB_vertex_program, GL_ARB_window_pos, 
    GL_EXT_abgr, GL_EXT_bgra, GL_EXT_blend_color, 
    GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate, GL_EXT_blend_func_separate, 
    GL_EXT_blend_logic_op, GL_EXT_blend_minmax, GL_EXT_blend_subtract, 
    GL_EXT_cull_vertex, GL_EXT_compiled_vertex_array, GL_EXT_copy_texture, 
    GL_EXT_draw_range_elements, GL_EXT_framebuffer_object, 
    GL_EXT_framebuffer_blit, GL_EXT_fog_coord, GL_EXT_gpu_program_parameters, 
    GL_EXT_multi_draw_arrays, GL_EXT_packed_depth_stencil, 
    GL_EXT_packed_pixels, GL_EXT_pixel_buffer_object, GL_EXT_point_parameters, 
    GL_EXT_polygon_offset, GL_EXT_provoking_vertex, GL_EXT_rescale_normal, 
    GL_EXT_secondary_color, GL_EXT_separate_specular_color, 
    GL_EXT_shadow_funcs, GL_EXT_stencil_two_side, GL_EXT_stencil_wrap, 
    GL_EXT_subtexture, GL_EXT_texture, GL_EXT_texture3D, 
    GL_EXT_texture_edge_clamp, GL_EXT_texture_env_add, 
    GL_EXT_texture_env_combine, GL_EXT_texture_env_dot3, 
    GL_EXT_texture_filter_anisotropic, GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias, 
    GL_EXT_texture_object, GL_EXT_texture_rectangle, GL_EXT_vertex_array, 
    GL_3DFX_texture_compression_FXT1, GL_APPLE_client_storage, 
    GL_APPLE_packed_pixels, GL_APPLE_vertex_array_object, 
    GL_ATI_blend_equation_separate, GL_ATI_texture_env_combine3, 
    GL_ATI_separate_stencil, GL_IBM_multimode_draw_arrays, 
    GL_IBM_rasterpos_clip, GL_IBM_texture_mirrored_repeat, 
    GL_INGR_blend_func_separate, GL_MESA_pack_invert, GL_MESA_ycbcr_texture, 
    GL_MESA_window_pos, GL_NV_blend_square, GL_NV_light_max_exponent, 
    GL_NV_point_sprite, GL_NV_texture_env_combine4, GL_NV_texture_rectangle, 
    GL_NV_texgen_reflection, GL_NV_vertex_program, GL_NV_vertex_program1_1, 
    GL_OES_read_format, GL_SGIS_generate_mipmap, GL_SGIS_texture_border_clamp, 
    GL_SGIS_texture_edge_clamp, GL_SGIS_texture_lod, GL_SUN_multi_draw_arrays

72 GLX Visuals
   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0x21 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x22 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xb1 24 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xb2 24 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xb3 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xb4 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xb5 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xb6 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xb7 24 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xb8 24 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xb9 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xba 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xbb 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xbc 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xbd 24 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xbe 24 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xbf 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xc0 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xc1 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xc2 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xc3 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xc4 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xc5 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xc6 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xc7 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xc8 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xc9 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xca 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xcb 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xcc 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xcd 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xce 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xcf 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xd0 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xd1 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xd2 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xd3 24 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xd4 24 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xd5 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xd6 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xd7 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xd8 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xd9 24 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xda 24 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xdb 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xdc 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xdd 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xde 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xdf 24 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xe0 24 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xe1 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xe2 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xe3 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xe4 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0xe5 24 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xe6 24 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xe7 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xe8 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xe9 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xea 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xeb 24 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xec 24 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xed 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xee 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xef 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xf0 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xf1 24 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xf2 24 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xf3 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xf4 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xf5 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x50 32 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None

96 GLXFBConfigs:
   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0x51  0 tc  0 16  0 r  .  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x52  0 tc  0 16  0 r  .  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x53  0 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x54  0 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x55  0 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x56  0 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x57  0 tc  0 16  0 r  .  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x58  0 tc  0 16  0 r  .  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x59  0 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x5a  0 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x5b  0 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x5c  0 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x5d  0 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x5e  0 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x5f  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x60  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x61  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x62  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x63  0 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x64  0 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x65  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x66  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x67  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x68  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x69  0 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x6a  0 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x6b  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x6c  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x6d  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x6e  0 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x6f  0 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x70  0 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x71  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x72  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x73  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x74  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x75  0 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x76  0 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x77  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x78  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x79  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x7a  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x7b  0 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x7c  0 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x7d  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x7e  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x7f  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x80  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x81  0 dc  0 16  0 r  .  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x82  0 dc  0 16  0 r  .  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x83  0 dc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x84  0 dc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x85  0 dc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x86  0 dc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x87  0 dc  0 16  0 r  .  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x88  0 dc  0 16  0 r  .  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x89  0 dc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x8a  0 dc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x8b  0 dc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x8c  0 dc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x8d  0 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x8e  0 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x8f  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x90  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x91  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x92  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0  0  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x93  0 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x94  0 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x95  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x96  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x97  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x98  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  0 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x99  0 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x9a  0 dc  0 24  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x9b  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x9c  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x9d  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x9e  0 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 24  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 Slow
0x9f  0 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xa0  0 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xa1  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xa2  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xa3  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xa4  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xa5  0 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xa6  0 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xa7  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xa8  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xa9  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xaa  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  0 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xab  0 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xac  0 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xad  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xae  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0xaf  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0xb0  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow

```
It look ok? If you are ever in the NY Westchester area give me a holla. I work at a few Starbucks. =)

---

### Post by n3toa on 2010-01-21
> **Giblet5 said:**
> Thanks, and you're absolutely right - using cvt can get you a good estimate of the frequency range of a given monitor.

I just posted a [HOWTO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8302145#post8302145") as well.

There are, of course many MANY other ways to achieve the same goal, but the procedure described here, and in the howto work too.

Man I have been trying to figure this out for a week. Been on the irc asked and on here could never get a straight answer you rock Thanks :popcorn:

---

### Post by unknownjason on 2010-10-17
> **Giblet5 said:**
> The only people who have trouble with resolutions are those whose cabling (monitor <--> gpu) do not correctly pass DDCC or EDID protocol signals.

These users are not out in the cold though, because Xorg is highly configurable, and all Xorg needs is correct "HorizSync" (in KHz) and "VertRefresh" (in Hz) values.

Supply those values in xorg.conf, and resolution is no longer an issue.

Most vendors supply those values in their specs.

You can fake it if you know the maximum resolution AND vertical refresh for the monitor.

Let's say you have a monitor with crap documentation (most TVs...) but you know the monitor can do [COLOR=Navy]1366x768 @ 60Hz[/COLOR]:

```
cvt [COLOR=Navy]1366 768 60[/COLOR]
# 1368x768 **[COLOR=DarkGreen]59.88 Hz[/COLOR]** (CVT) **[COLOR=DarkRed]hsync: 47.79 kHz[/COLOR]**; pclk: 85.25 MHz
Modeline "1368x768_60.00"   85.25  1368 1440 1576 1784  768 771 781 798 -hsync +vsync
```The dark green portion is the calculated VertRefresh.

The dark red portion is the calculated HorziSync.

That's all you need!

Now you can create a template xorg.conf by flipping to the text console via Ctrl+Alt+F1 and running:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo X -configure
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```Log in, and you'll have a file in your home directory called xorg.conf.new. Edit that file via ```
sudo gedit xorg.conf.new
```Scroll down to the "Monitor" section.

Add two lines between the Identifier definition and the EndSection declaration: ```
    HorizSync   47.79 - 47.79
    VertRefresh 59.88 - 59.88
```Save it.

Use gedit's Save As to save it as /etc/X11/xorg.conf.

Then restart the X server via ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```You'll be logged off and the login screen will appear at full resolution.


What if my monitor can do 1680x1050?

---

