---
title: "[SOLVED] Nvidia Restricted Driver: No High Resolutions"
date: 2008-02-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by o_swas on 2008-02-08
Hello!

I'm mostly a Linux newbie.  I successfully installed Kubuntu Gutsy Gibbon on my notebook last fall (not without some trouble) and while I've been using it almost exclusively on my notebook, I don't often use my notebook.  So tonight I installed Kubuntu Gutsy Gibbon on my desktop computer.

After installing Gutsy and booting for the first time, a message noted that a restricted driver was available for my video card.  At that time the resolution was 800x600 (the max available), and I was hoping to use a resolution like 1152x864 like I use when I boot into Windows.  So, I enabled the restricted driver for the video card (an **Nvidia GeForce4 MX440** w/AGP8X) and restarted Kubuntu.

After the restart I noticed a resolution change, but it went the wrong way -- it was down to 640x480.  No problem I thought, I'll just set it up higher.  Much to my dismay, when I went into monitor settings, I found that 640x480 was the highest resolution available!!  Not what I wanted to see.

I looked at the **etc/X11/xorg.conf** file, which is listed at the end of this message.  I don't really know what I'm looking for, but there doesn't seem to be anything particularly wrong with it.  I do see that it appears to recognize the card correctly, and a bunch of available resolutions are listed, but for some reason they aren't available in the admin screen.

Can anybody tell me how to get the display running properly??  I see that Nvidia has some drivers available for download on their website, but it seems like I already have the right driver... it's just that something isn't quite right.

Thank you!!!!

-Ryan

```

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL P1130"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x]"
	Monitor		"DELL P1130"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1800x1440"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by formol on 2008-02-08
hello,

i'm not an expert, but, for what i tryed, the restricted driver was not "enough" for my computer.
i suggest you to try Envy, an automated nvidia installer.
[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

it added the programe "nvidia stetting" in the application/system tools menu, and it is near the panel available in windows.

i hope it will help.

regards,
formol

---

### Post by bwtranch on 2008-02-08
I had the same problem and I tried Envy and it totally broke my system. Not very happy at this point (actually pretty pissed) I decided to trash the whole thing and try Hardy. Make a long story short, it worked great. That's my two cents, the alpha worked better.

---

### Post by o_swas on 2008-02-08
Is there anyway I can fix the currently installed driver?  I believe there must be a way, since it's installed and the xorg.conf seems to be correct.  Or should I uninstall the restricted driver and [try installing the driver from the nvidia site?]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_x86_96.43.05.html")

I've got to believe there's a fairly easy way around this.  Please help!!!!!


Thank you!!!!!!

-Ryan

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-02-08
Did you try to change resolution from Applications -> System Tools -> Nvidia Settings?

---

### Post by o_swas on 2008-02-08
> **kpkeerthi said:**
> Did you try to change resolution from Applications -> System Tools -> Nvidia Settings?

I didn't even though that was there.  I'll take a look.  Does that menu item exist after the restricted drivers have been automatically installed?  I'm using Kubuntu.... where would it appear in KDE?

---

### Post by formol on 2008-02-08
> **o_swas said:**
> I didn't even though that was there.  I'll take a look.  Does that menu item exist after the restricted drivers have been automatically installed?  I'm using Kubuntu.... where would it appear in KDE?

in gnome, no, it's why i mentionned envy.      -    apparently someone had bad experience with enevy.... it work perfectly for me.

apparently in kde [http://customisinglife.files.wordpress.com/2006/09/new-menu.png](http://customisinglife.files.wordpress.com/2006/09/new-menu.png)
and, it may look like that [http://www.emcken.dk/weblog/uploads/NVIDIAXServerSettings.png](http://www.emcken.dk/weblog/uploads/NVIDIAXServerSettings.png)

---

### Post by BLTicklemonster on 2008-02-08
I know that if you don't use option 6 to remove nvidia drivers before installing drivers using envy (at least as far as my experience is concerned) you can end up at the low graphics screen wondering wtf, and think your system's screwed. Just ctrl alt f1 and sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop then run envy -t and use option 6, then  when it's done, install the nvidia driver and be done with it.

At least this is what I did a few days ago. I was wanting better than I had, and tried compiling my own kernel (no glx for some retarded reason and couldn't play 3d games), so I figured Alberto always bails me out, so why not try him again) and everything. Ran envy, rebooted, and bam, low graphics.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-02-08
> **o_swas said:**
> I didn't even though that was there.  I'll take a look.  Does that menu item exist after the restricted drivers have been automatically installed?  I'm using Kubuntu.... where would it appear in KDE?

Open a terminal and type ```
nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by o_swas on 2008-02-09
> **kpkeerthi said:**
> Open a terminal and type ```
nvidia-settings
```

I was able to launch the Nvidia settings console by typing "nvidia-settings" from the Run command.  So far so good.  However, my resolution is stuck at 640x480, and at that resolution I can't see the part of the window that should let me choose a different resolution.  I can see the "Configure" button as shown in this image:

[http://www.emcken.dk/weblog/uploads/NVIDIAXServerSettings.png](http://www.emcken.dk/weblog/uploads/NVIDIAXServerSettings.png)

But I can't see anything below it, as the kicker panel cuts it off, and I can't resize the window to be smaller.  I can't hide the kicker panel because at the 640x480 resolution I can't get to the "Save" button to hide it.

What can I see to either make the screen bigger or the window smaller so I can try changing the resolution????

Thank you!!!!

---

### Post by o_swas on 2008-02-09
OK, so I was able to get the kicker panel out of the way long enough to see the Resolution drop down, and 640x480, 320x480, and Auto were the only options.  None of the other resolutions found in the xorg.conf file are listed.

I'm confused -- why are many resolutions listed in xorg.conf (see first post) but they're not available here??

---

### Post by o_swas on 2008-02-11
Everything is working now.  I ended up opening a terminal and using the **dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg** command.  This lead me through a whole series of questions (which I didn't know if I was answering correctly) and at the end it said it rewrote the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file (it did write a backup of it first) and then I rebooted.  I was then able to change the resolution through the KDE panels.  I didn't try it but I think the nvidia-settings panel would work too.  

One thing I should do is compare the two versions of xorg.conf and try to figure out what changed that made the difference -- xorg.conf appeared correct before, but dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg changed something that made it work.

Thanks to everybody for the help!!!

-Ryan

---

