---
title: "[14.04] fglrx installing 13.12 or 14.4 on Ubuntu"
date: 2014-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kevin_Lopez on 2014-04-26
The problem:
I am trying to install the proprietary driver from AMD (I have 2x7970's). I am trying to run some calculations on the cards with a program that currently requires catalyst version 13.12 for it to run. I had fglrx installed from the repositories before and all of the graphics looked fine and everything worked, but this program needs the proprietary driver for it to work. Now I do a sudo apt-get purge fglrx* and remove all of the packages. Once it removes it I reboot and try to install the proprietary driver. When trying to install it gives me in the file /usr/share/ati/fglrx-install.log: 

```
fglrx installation requires that the system have kernel headers for 3.7 release.  /lib/modules/3.11.0-15-generic/build/include/generated/uapi/linux/version.h cannot be found on this system.One or more tools required for installation cannot be found on the system. Install the required tools before installing the fglrx driver.
Optionally, run the installer with --force option to install without the tools.
Forcing install will disable AMD hardware acceleration and may make your system unstable. Not recommended.
```

According to uname -a I have these headers/image
```
3.11.0-15-generic 
```

From the release notes for both catalyst version 13.12 and 14.4 they both support kernel-headers up to 3.11.
[http://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/amdcatalyst13-12linreleasenotes.aspx](http://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/amdcatalyst13-12linreleasenotes.aspx)
[http://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/AMDCatalyst14-4LINReleaseNotes.aspx](http://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/AMDCatalyst14-4LINReleaseNotes.aspx)

Why will neither catalyst install on my system? Is there something I am missing?
Can anyone shine some light on this list please, I am not sure why this is happening.

Also to note, I have updated my installation with the latest fglrx and I cannot get a usable ubuntu-session. I get my wallpaper and a working cursor, but unity never loads. If I use fluxbox or any other desktop I can get into it and I can use it, just not the ubuntu-desktop.

P.S. When I install fglrx from the repo it installs and I get low graphics mode, I am not sure why either. Not sure where to find the logs for this issue.
Also if anyone experiences this weird issue when updating from 13.10 check nomodeprobe in the grub boot option.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-26
fglrx IS the proprietary catalyst driver.

---

### Post by Kevin_Lopez on 2014-04-26
Is it this the proprietary driver maintained by ubuntu? Not entirely sure.

---

### Post by richierich1986 on 2014-06-11
ubuntu does not maintain a proprietary driver. ATI Catalyst = fglrx and vice versa. By default the open source alternative driver is installed when you install ubuntu. Anyway, i'd stick to the default open source driver. It's performance is less, but it is way more stable, at least in my case. When I install fglrx, the first few boots are perfect. After that, it just starts to act up and I get stripes all over my display and I can't mouseclick anything. Fixing it has been a pain and I haven't gotten anywhere so far. Can't seem to find what's causing this behavior all of a sudden.

---

