---
title: "Resume through ir remote"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fld on 2009-10-31
I have this problem. With the new kernel (v....31.5) I installed to solve an ipv6 problems, the ir remote is no longer able to wake the computer. The red led on the receiver lights up and remains on, whereas usually it lights just for the time you press a button. When I press the power button on the computer case, it awakes perfectly - so the problem is not resuming in general. 
The remote is a topseed mceusb remote. Lirc is the jaunty standard version (0.8.4a). The os is jaunty - a minimal install with flushbox. The mobo is a zotac ion. 

Any idea? Please help!!!

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-31
I got it solved on jaunty using this :
[http://lars.werner.no/?p=177](http://lars.werner.no/?p=177)

scroll down to* 4. Wake-up on USB*
though the rest might interest you as well

---

### Post by Sin@Sin-Sacrifice on 2009-10-31
You've had this working? I never got it to... I found that the light stays on when the driver isn't loaded and when the PC is asleep the driver isn't loaded. Don't see how it could work to be honest unless you gave the remote some kind of mouse function and set the PC to wake on mouse movement or something. Did you really have this working before because I tried struggling with it for like 2 days and got nothing but the driver not loaded light on the IR receiver.

EDIT: I just saw the previous post and am angry with myself for not coming here. Guess people do have this working. Ugh... now here I go back to it.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-31
> **Sin@Sin-Sacrifice said:**
> You've had this working? 

Yup. But it does require a compatible IR receiver (and obviously a bios that will resume on usb).
> 
I never got it to... I found that the light stays on when the driver isn't loaded and when the PC is asleep the driver isn't loaded. Don't see how it could work to be honest unless you gave the remote some kind of mouse function and set the PC to wake on mouse movement or something. 

It works the same way as any other wakeup event. In standby some devices can still be powered, like network, usb, keyboard, modem.. these can generate a wakeup event.

---

### Post by fld on 2009-11-01
Yes, mine was wonderfully working with jaunty kernel (28-15). But wireless was not. And no, it clearly can't be the whole driver to be loaded during sleep, but that signal must be enabled to "go through" and wake the system. I'm missing this part infact: how is that signal sent, what signal is it, what is disabling it now? I read the lars-page, and also the one that is linked there. I'm going back to make sure I tried everything, but my system was giving me only S4 and S5 state devices, so I gave up a couple of days ago...but I'll report back later after trying to add missing S3 devices...

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-01
> **fld said:**
> Yes, mine was wonderfully working with jaunty kernel (28-15). But wireless was not. And no, it clearly can't be the whole driver to be loaded during sleep, but that signal must be enabled to "go through" and wake the system. I'm missing this part infact: how is that signal sent, what signal is it, what is disabling it now? 

The signal is a (special) interrupt, generated by the USB device (IR receiver or mouse or keyboard, network controller or whatever your motherboard and bios supports as wake up devices). That interrupt wakes up the CPU and the rest of the system. It can even wake it up when its turned OFF and not just in sleep mode. That is because even when the PC is turned "off", its usually in S5 mode, which is not entirely off (tlike your tv standby) and some devices can still be powered by the 5v standby power. It has noting to do with drivers, no software is involved here, just bios. Although software can be used to set the behaviour through acpi.

---

### Post by fld on 2009-11-01
This is what I get
```
cat /proc/acpi/wakeup
Device	S-state	  Status   Sysfs node
SMB0	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:03.2
USB0	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:04.0
USB2	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:04.1
US15	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:06.0
US12	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:06.1
NMAC	  S5	 disabled  pci:0000:00:0a.0
PBB0	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:09.0
HDAC	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:08.0
XVR0	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:0c.0
XVR1	  S4	 disabled  
P0P5	  S4	 disabled  
P0P6	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:15.0
P0P7	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:16.0
P0P8	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:17.0
P0P9	  S4	 disabled  pci:0000:00:18.0
PWRB	  S4	*enabled   

```

and this 
```
lsusb 
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 004 Device 002: ID 1784:0008 TopSeed Technology Corp. 
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 046d:c312 Logitech, Inc. 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

```

is the usb list with the topseed receiver.

I do not agree on the last part, P4man: if there was no software involved, it would just work...always or never. But as I said that is not the case. Although the bios settings are the same as before, suspend works, resume works only from case button but not from remote. So I assume at least the kernel plays a role there. Or what is it determining the S-state of devices?

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-01
USB is disabled as wake up device. Enable it. Try this
```
sudo sh -c 'echo "USB0" >> /proc/acpi/wakeup'
```
Copy pasting the command from that page I linked doesnt work as the apostrophes are messed up. The above should work.

> if there was no software involved, it would just work...always or never.

I mean no software is running when the system is in S3, S4 or S5. But you can use software to interact with the acpi bios and change settings, thats what the above does.

---

### Post by fld on 2009-11-01
Hmmmm...
Thanks P4man, you were right. Enableing did something. I did not try before because I thought it has to be S3 first of all. Now indeed the system tries to sleep, but something awakes it after 7-8 seconds. I may be able to solve it now by trying to remove those files in sleep.d one by one and see what happens (right??). But the question remains: shouldn't it say S3 for the suspend-able devices?

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-01
> **fld said:**
> Hmmmm...
Thanks P4man, you were right. Enableing did something. I did not try before because I thought it has to be S3 first of all. Now indeed the system tries to sleep, but something awakes it after 7-8 seconds

Perhaps its your mouse? My wireless' mouse USB receiver generates a wakeup event when just moving it, which is kind of annoying. My wired USB mouse only does it when I click a button. 

> . I may be able to solve it now by trying to remove those files in sleep.d one by one and see what happens (right??)

Hu? What would you remove why?

> . But the question remains: shouldn't it say S3 for the suspend-able devices?

Im not entirely sure what that column means. I suspect its the deepest sleep state supported. S4 would be hibernation, meaning these devices would be able to wake the machine when in hibernate. I guess that means they will certainly be able to wake them when in S3. But that is just guessing. I got S4 for all devices as well.

---

### Post by fld on 2009-11-01
> **P4man said:**
> Perhaps its your mouse? My wireless' mouse USB receiver generates a wakeup event when just moving it, which is kind of annoying. My wired USB mouse only does it when I click a button. 

No, that's a keyboard. There's no mouse connected. 


> 
Im not entirely sure what that column means. I suspect its the deepest sleep state supported. S4 would be hibernation, meaning these devices would be able to wake the machine when in hibernate. I guess that means they will certainly be able to wake them when in S3. But that is just guessing. I got S4 for all devices as well.
I found that S3 stands for suspend to ram, while S4 is hibernate. S3 is usually harder to find/achieve than S4, but you might be right about the "deeper" meaning. The fact that you have S4 for all devices is good to know - given that it works ;)
I'll investigate on to find what is re-awaking the system as soon as it turned off. I think I also read something similar somewhere. I have a detailed log - although I was not able to match the row which causes the wake signal or interrupts the suspend...yet...
Thanks for your help until here anyway!

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-01
Perhaps post the ouput of cat /proc/acpi/wakeup again after you tried enabling resume on USB. Is it enabling any other device too? If its only USB, what other USB devices do you have connected ?

Anyway, I dont pretend to be an expert in this field, but I made it work so its possible at least on some machines :)

---

