---
title: "12.04 not using both cores"
date: 2012-06-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by topdown2 on 2012-06-07
I have a new Ubuntu 12.04 instance (Image from Canonical).

%% uname -a 
Linux ip-10-161-101-5 3.2.0-23-virtual #36-Ubuntu SMP Tue Apr 10 22:29:03 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

postgres@ip:~$ cat /proc/cpuinfo 
processor	: 0
vendor_id	: GenuineIntel
etc...
processor : 1
vendor_id	: GenuineIntel
etc...

so it looks like both cores are available

I am running a python web application backed by a postgresql 9.1 database.

When I do some initial database loading from the app, I get heavy Python and postgresql CPU usage for about 30 minutes.

When I look at top I see python and postgresql running at between 30-100% and if one is running at N% the other is at (100-N)%.

When I look at the monitoring panel in AWS Console, it shows half an hour of exactly 50% utilization.

So this looks to me that python and postgresql hare sharing one core, while the other sits idle.

Can someone give me a clue as to why this is and what if anything i can do to get them to each take one core?

Thanks.

---

### Post by alanphil on 2012-06-07
I'm no expert, but I think you would need to run multiple threads in parallel to use both cores. If you do a search on Python threading you will find examples. For simple python web applications multi-threading can be difficult. 

Erlang is an example of a programming language that is better suited for dealing with multiple cores.

---

### Post by topdown2 on 2012-06-07
> **alanphil said:**
> I'm no expert, but I think you would need to run multiple threads in parallel to use both cores. If you do a search on Python threading you will find examples. For simple python web applications multi-threading can be difficult. 

Erlang is an example of a programming language that is better suited for dealing with multiple cores.

My question is simpler then that though - what I was expecting to see was python using one core and postresql using the other. 

But instead they share one core and consume it's cycles pretty much 100% between them for half an hour while the other core is basically at 0% utilization.

It seems like having two cores is largely wasted in this case.

So I guess what i am unsure of is if that is what I should expect to see, or if I have erred in setup in some way, or ...?

---

### Post by Jimmyfj on 2012-06-08
I think this might answer your question:

[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4650492/multi-core-and-cpu-usage](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4650492/multi-core-and-cpu-usage)

---

### Post by topdown2 on 2012-06-08
> **Jimmyfj said:**
> I think this might answer your question:

[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4650492/multi-core-and-cpu-usage](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4650492/multi-core-and-cpu-usage)

Thanks for the reply but that didn't answer my question really.

---

### Post by phosphide on 2012-06-08
Can't you tell the process which core to use? (This is just a guess as I know there are tools for process management.)

---

