---
title: "Video mode not supported"
date: 2008-07-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nbakewell on 2008-07-20
I just installed the game Urban Terror and went I went to boot it up my screen went to black and a blue box with a white border appeared in the center saying "Video mode not supported".  However, I could hear the game's background music playing, just no video.

I installed and successfully played Nexuiz early this day, though, so I know some games work.  Also, I have the new nvidia-glx proprietary drivers installed.

Any ideas on what is wrong and why only some games won't work while others will?  I heard mention of installing envyng, but i've also heard some people have terrible times with it.

Thanks in advance...

---

### Post by nbakewell on 2008-07-21
Searching some other forums yielded this:

> Try to configure the X server again. When you will be asked about your monitor, select the exact model from the list. If your monotor is not listed, the "generic flat panel" selection usually works fine.

However, would this be the case since I only get that error while running some applications and not all?  If x-server was configured wrong, wouldn't I not be able to run anything?

I also read a lot about this problem being thrown because your monitor doesn't support the resolution the application is trying to run on.  My monitor supports a wide range of resolutions, and is currently set on 1280 x 1024 - it's a Hyundai Image Quest L90D+

---

### Post by nbakewell on 2008-07-23
Update: I tried setting my monitor refresh rates to wider values as suggested via IRC but that didn't seem to make a difference.  Also, it appears my xorg.conf file has been generated incomplete - and when I run the command to generate a new one, the same thing happens.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-07-23
Hardy's xorg configuration has changed from previous versions. See the community docs on that [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video"). The new hardy xorg info is a link within that but I wanted to include the main page too since there might be useful stuff there. 
Specifically though the xorg.conf generated by 7.3 doesn't contain all the lines that previous releases did-so what you are seeing is normal.
Maybe you want to compare the modelines in your xorg.conf to the specs for your screen?

Added: One more idea: If you can try and start that game from a terminal-there could be more info output there that you can search or post here. Hope that helps.

---

### Post by Yellowbelly on 2008-08-17
I'm having this exact same problem as well and have not idea how to fix it.

here's the output when i started it in the terminal:

ioQ3 1.35urt linux-i386 Aug 10 2008
----- FS_Startup -----
Going through search path...

----------------------
8032 files in pk3 files
execing default.cfg
execing q3config.cfg
execing autoexec.cfg
Hunk_Clear: reset the hunk ok
----- Client Initialization -----
Couldn't read q3history.
----- Initializing Renderer ----
-------------------------------
QKEY found.
----- Client Initialization Complete -----
----- R_Init -----
...loading libGL.so.1:
Calling SDL_Init(SDL_INIT_VIDEO)...
SDL_Init(SDL_INIT_VIDEO) passed.
Initializing OpenGL display
...setting mode 4: 800 600
Using 4/4/4 Color bits, 24 depth, 0 stencil display.
GL_RENDERER: GeForce 6600/PCI/SSE2/3DNOW!
Initializing OpenGL extensions
...ignoring GL_S3_s3tc
...ignoring GL_EXT_texture_env_add
...using GL_ARB_multitexture
...using GL_EXT_compiled_vertex_array
...ignoring GL_EXT_texture_filter_anisotropic

GL_VENDOR: NVIDIA Corporation
GL_RENDERER: GeForce 6600/PCI/SSE2/3DNOW!
GL_VERSION: 2.1.2 NVIDIA 169.12
GL_MAX_TEXTURE_SIZE: 4096
GL_MAX_ACTIVE_TEXTURES_ARB: 4

PIXELFORMAT: color(32-bits) Z(24-bit) stencil(0-bits)
MODE: 4, 800 x 600 fullscreen hz:N/A
GAMMA: hardware w/ 0 overbright bits
CPU: 
rendering primitives: single glDrawElements
texturemode: GL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST
picmip: 1
texture bits: 32
multitexture: enabled
compiled vertex arrays: enabled
texenv add: disabled
compressed textures: disabled
Initializing Shaders
----- finished R_Init -----
------ Initializing Sound ------
Initializing SDL audio driver...
SDL audio driver is "alsa".
SDL_AudioSpec:
  Format:   AUDIO_S16LSB
  Freq:     22050
  Samples:  512
  Channels: 2
Starting SDL audio callback...
SDL audio initialized.
----- Sound Info -----
    1 stereo
16384 samples
   16 samplebits
    1 submission_chunk
22050 speed
0x8b19e20 dma buffer
No background file.
----------------------
Sound initialization successful.
--------------------------------
Sound memory manager started
Loading vm file vm/ui.qvm...
VM file ui compiled to 737597 bytes of code
ui loaded in 33931488 bytes on the hunk
UI menu load time = 403 milli seconds
UI menu load time = 275 milli seconds
16 bots parsed
13 crosshairs parsed
--- Common Initialization Complete ---
Opening IP socket: localhost:27960
Hostname: bripod-desktop
IP: 127.0.1.1
Started tty console (use +set ttycon 0 to disable)
----- CL_Shutdown -----
Closing SDL audio device...
SDL audio device shut down.
RE_Shutdown( 1 )
-----------------------
Shutdown tty console



EDIT:

Found in the Urban Terror forums by woekele: "Apparently, your in-game resolution is set to a reso that is not suported in your OS right now. Go to /home/yourname/.q3a/q3ut4/ show hidden dirs to find it and edit q3config.cfg in it and set r_fullscreen to 0. Then fix your OS so that it can display the reso you were trying to run it at, or run another resolution.

Check [http://forums.urbanterror.net/index.php/topic,10726.0.html](http://forums.urbanterror.net/index.php/topic,10726.0.html) for similair problem."

[http://forums.urbanterror.net/index.php/topic,10747.0.html](http://forums.urbanterror.net/index.php/topic,10747.0.html)


I got it running in windowed mode. Haven't tried full screen

---

