---
title: "9.04 was working  - now stops booting after login - help please"
date: 2009-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by azwli on 2009-11-09
I installed kubuntu 9.04 on my lenovo laptop a couple weeks ago and everything has been mostly working well.  It was working today just fine wile I was at work, except that Plasma crashed a few times while I was working with Network Manager.  I turned off that widget and turned it back on and that seemed to fix it.  I rebooted several times during the day. Then I had this problem of the screen capture program just started opening a whole bunch of windows and I had to shut down twice to get it to stop.  Then I come home and it won't finish booting.

Now it will let me login and it will start the splash screen and go through the first three icons (hard drive, tools, network) then it stops.  If I try the fail safe I get this error:  > Xsession: unable to launch failsafe X session --- terminal-emulator not found; aborting.  I can hit ctl>alt>f1 and log in but I don't know much to do there.  I did an apt-get update/upgrade -- no hitches.  If I let it sit at the login screen for a while it kicks out this error:  The following installation proplem was detected while trying to start KDE:    No write access to '/home/*username*/.ICEauthority'.  KDE unable to start.

I found a post on the KDE forum that said this:
> 
The problem is, you ran an application as root inside your user session. This will have changed file ownership and permissions across all sorts of files within your Trunk users home directory. Please login as the affected user at the virtual terminal and run these commands:

Code: Select all
    sudo chown $(id -un):$(id -gn) ~/
    rm -rf ~/.kde*
    rm -f ~/.dmrc
That did nothing that I can see.

I am in a pickle as I have some graphic work that I really need to get done.  If there is anyone out there that can help me, Please respond.

I looked into the .ICEauthority issue a bit more and found a way to change the ownership and that allowed me to login.  the desk top seems to reverted to its original settings and it is not connecting to the wireless, but at least I can log in.  is there anything else that I need to do to make sure this doesn't happen again?

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-09
You seem to be having various odd and apparently unrelated problems progressively getting worse. I would guess your drive is dying. Is this a wubi install? If its not, then boot a livecd and backup your stuff. Then Id try a filesystem check and some hardware checks (drive, ram)

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2009-11-09
Log in in text mode, and type:

sudo chown  username:username /home/username
chmod 700 /home/username -R
sudo reboot

---

### Post by azwli on 2009-11-09
This was a live CD install. It seems to be working ok now, although when I have a weak wifi signal it will disconnect at some point and the only way I can restart it is to remove the widget and re add it.  Then it reconnects. What does the ch*[SIZE="1"]ange[/SIZE]*mod*[SIZE="1"]e[/SIZE]* _700_ do? 

Really could be a bad HD?

---

