---
title: "9.04 Install Problem"
date: 2009-06-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheAlchem1st on 2009-06-21
Today, I downloaded the 32-bit version of Ubuntu 9.04 to put on an old Dell Optiplex GX60 I had sitting around.  Once the cd loads, I select "Install Ubuntu," and I get the loading bar for a few min.  After the bar stops bouncing back and forth, and fills up, I get a black screen, and nothing else.  I have verified the CD using imgburn and the built-in verify tool you can pick from the main cd boot menu.  I also ran an md5sum on the iso and it was valid.  But, every time I try to install it, it just gets stuck on the black screen.  

What should I do?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-06-21
You might try the text-based alternate install cd.

---

### Post by Johnny B on 2009-06-21
that happend to me once, i had to repetedly mash the keys to get it to boot.
will it load when you select "try ubuntu"? you can get to the installer from there.
otherwise just use the alternate cd like merlinus said

---

### Post by merzoukr on 2009-06-22
I had a similar problem with a Dell GX270 and Ubuntu 9.04.  I went into System Setup (Hit F2 during the POST), then I went down to "Integrated Devices" and Disabled "PCI Slots".  That enabled me to install. I then went back and re-enabled the PCI slots and the OS froze just before the login screen.  I shut off the computer and physically removed the only PCI card I had installed (a wireless card by Level One).  The system then boot perfectly.  I am now trying to figure out how to get the system to boot with the wireless card.  Good Luck!!

---

