---
title: "18.04.3 DeskMini A300 Ryzen 3200G requires BIOS re-flash to POST after shutdown"
date: 2020-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jameswilddev on 2020-04-27
Weird issue, not seen anything like it.  Built a small DeskMini A300 with a Ryzen 3200G and 32GB of Corsair Vengance.  SSD is a M2 1Tb Crucial NVME.  Installed Windows first, that works fine.  Installed Ubuntu onto a new 50Gb partition, and that, too, works fine; once.  After shutting down Ubuntu, the system is bricked; I don't even get voltage out of the USB ports (though the power LED comes on).  The only solution is to open up the machine, remove the SSD (at which point I can get to BIOS) and re-flash the BIOS from a USB drive, after which Windows works as before and I can boot Ubuntu once more again, after which the BIOS needs another flash to unbrick the system.

I don't know much about the low level of computing; is there anywhere I can get you guys some logs or something?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-27
Welcome and it's weird indeed.

A few questions:
[LIST=1]
[*]Have you installed both OSes in UEFI mode? If so,
[*]Have you disabled Secure Boot?
[*]Have you disabled Fast Boot?
[*]Which firmware version are you re-flashing? The firmware is actually UEFI, not BIOS, but this manufacturer sadly isn't alone in using an old and now very wrong acronym/terminology.
[/LIST]

Also this > The only solution is to open up the machine, remove the SSD (at which  point I can get to BIOS) and re-flash the BIOS from a USB drive doesn't make sense. If you can access UEFI why do you think it needs re-flashing?

---

