---
title: "12.04 cannot access US international keyboard input method"
date: 2015-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dr Kayak on 2015-11-09
I'm running Ubuntu 12.04 with the xfce desktop.  I want to add the keyboard input method called 'English (US international with dead keys)'.  On my 14.04 laptop, I could do this using *Settings > Keyboard Input Methods > Input Method;* checking 'customize'; selecting 'input method'; and adding 'English (US international with dead keys)'. 

On my Ubuntu 12.04 desktop, when I choose *Settings > Keyboard Input Methods > Input Method > Select an input method*, the only method option is Chinese (with two variants). There are no English options.  I've tried adding various 'ibus' packages, to no effect.  Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by john-w-bales on 2016-01-05
The US International keyboard is also not available on Ubuntu Gnome 15.10. To select a keyboard in Ubuntu Gnome 15.10 one does Applications > Activities Overview >  Regions & Language. Keyboard layouts are arranged by language and the US international layout is not available. Bad screw-up on the part of Ubuntu Gnome.

---

### Post by john-w-bales on 2016-01-07
[SIZE=3]I found this terminal command on the web:    **sudo **[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Consolas][B]setxkbmap -rules evdev -model evdev -layout us -variant altgr-intl
[/B]
Then I went back to Settings > Keyboard > Input sources clicked on the + sign then on the three dots. A search bar opened and I typed in ´US international´ and the option ´Mali (US International)´ appeared. I do not know if the option was there all along under the ´Mali´ option or if it appeared because of the terminal command above. But I now have both the US and the US International keyboard layouts available.[/FONT][/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

