---
title: "GNS3 1.3.2 Package Needed For Ubuntu 12.04"
date: 2015-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by anspectrum on 2015-05-08
Hello guys,

I know its a bit odd to ask for this but I am gonna do it anyways for the good of all others.....:)

For skilled users it wouldn't pose any problem and would be a piece of cake.

Ok, here is what is my request: _**Can someone make a Ubuntu Package for GNS3 1.3.2 (latest release in source form)**_ and post it here or post the link here for download. 

(Its just too much to compile and install various packages and if something goes wrong uninstalling them is a pain in the @**.

GNS3 latest source is **[https://github.com/GNS3/gns3-gui/releases/download/v1.3.2/GNS3-1.3.2.source.zip](https://github.com/GNS3/gns3-gui/releases/download/v1.3.2/GNS3-1.3.2.source.zip)** and the procedure to install it on Ubuntu 14.04 is **[https://community.gns3.com/thread/5471](https://community.gns3.com/thread/5471)**

Thanks in advance.:P
Cheers.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-05-08
Are you are saying that the 0.8.7 version for download at Sourceforge is not the appropriate version for the Debian maintainer of GNS3 to be using?

If so, then please file a Debian Bug to let the maintainer know the correct URL to track.
After the maintainer packages for Debian, the new version will automatically be imported into the Ubuntu repositories.

---

### Post by anspectrum on 2015-05-08
> **ian-weisser said:**
> Are you are saying that the 0.8.7 version for download at Sourceforge is not the appropriate version ..... 

I would not call it as inappropriate, but yes its quite outdated. The new versions are packed with more functionality and stability than what ubuntu repositories are offering at the moment.

By filing the bug, I hope you are referring to Launchpad...??

I'm gonna do that right away.

Thanks

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-05-09
> **anspectrum said:**
> By filing the bug, I hope you are referring to Launchpad...??

I meant the Debian bug tracking system instead of Launchpad for this type of inquiry. You can do it using Launchpad, but it will take longer, and a volunteer Triager must open the Debian bug for you.
 You might get faster response, and a better answer, by e-mailing the Debian Maintainer and simply asking them.

You can find the Debian Maintainer's name and e-mail address (if the package is really from Debian - yes, gns3 is) quite simply:
```
$ apt-cache show gns3 | grep Original-Maintainer
```

Here's a rather boilerplate e-mail message that has worked for me in the past. Do note that the offer to help in the last sentence should be genuine. Maintainers that I have met dislike drive-by complaints.

"Hi, I use <Package Name> in Ubuntu, and you are listed as the Debian Maintainer. The version of <Package Name> in Debian seems <How Many Months/Years> old - it matches the version at <Sourceforge URL>. Upstream has released a new version at <Upstream URL>. How can I help you update <Package Name> in Debian/Ubuntu?"

---

### Post by anspectrum on 2015-05-09
Thanks for the tip off Ian. I like the way you have put it..
> **ian-weisser said:**
> ....Do note that the offer to help in the last sentence should be genuine. Maintainers that I have met dislike drive-by complaints......:p

Since, I've been shown the right way of getting this thing done, I'm gonna mark this thread as solved.

Cheers.

---

