---
title: "8.10 suspend issue on Thinkpad T61 with nvidia graphics card and 180.22 drivers"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by darthshak on 2009-01-11
Hi everyone

I've been using Ubuntu since late 2007, starting with Gutsy. While suspend has traditionally been an issue with nVidia graphics cards, I generally solved it by modifying the acpi-support file. Hardy worked like a charm as the 173 drivers seemed to have got it fixed out of the box.

I have a Thinkpad T61 14.1" with an nVidia Quadro NVS 140M graphics card. I first installed the 180.22 drivers on ubuntu hardy to some disastrous consequences : Yakuake, mozilla, nautilus, any menu for that matter, never refreshed properly. Upgrading to Intrepid (yes, I know, its a bit late) now, the 180.22 drivers do not allow me to resume from suspend. Over and above that, Ctrl+Alt+Backspace seems to result in the nVidia splash screen appear and disappear ad-infinitum. 

Reverting to the 173 drivers created a kernel support issue, so that isnt an option any more. Any driver before 180 doesnt work. Any one has any ideas?

---

### Post by kachofool on 2009-02-21
I don't use the suspend function at all, but I was able to get the 177 nvidia drivers working after a fresh install.

I changed the Download From: option in System > Administration > Software Sources to "Main Server", and let all the repository stuff be reloaded. 

Then I opened up terminal, and typed in 

"sudo apt-get module-assistant"
... let that install

then

"sudo m-a -f get nvidia-177-kernel-source"

then I enabled the 177 drivers in the Restricted Drivers pane in System > Administration and it indicated I should reboot. After that everything seems to be working fine...

---

