---
title: "2.6.31-16 creates first crash in a year"
date: 2009-12-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-12-12
An hour after rebooting due to the 2.6.31-16 kernel update, my system locked hard, requiring the reset switch.  This is the first such crash in over a year!  It may have been random and I doubt I will spend much time trying to figure it out unless it happens again.  I just thought I would post it in case others noticed a similar trend.

---

### Post by magic8ball on 2009-12-12
Hi,

I've only been using Ubuntu for a couple weeks, but I had a system lock-up (my only one) with that kernel a couple days ago.  I had Thunderbird and Firefox (browsing Ubuntu forum) running at the time.  I was able to do CTRL+ALT+DLT and let the automatic shutdown timer expire to shut the system down.  I haven't had any problems since.

- Chuck

---

### Post by tpg on 2009-12-20
Not sure if this is related - just upgraded to 2.6.31-16, and system predictably crashes after gnome desktop loads, on any attempt to open a window/menu.

This is only if I boot with the 2.6.31-16 - if instead I use 2.6.31-4 then the system runs normally without crashing.

Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-12-20
The crash I reported was the only one I had...so I have attributed it to something odd I was doing.

---

### Post by ucdminer on 2009-12-25
I can confirm this! I have been having intermittent crashes for last 3 days. During this time I had at least 5/6 crashes. Then this morning I got fed up and reverted back to 2.6.31-15. So far no further crash after that :) Just FYI, I was also using NVidia 195.22 beta driver. I also rolled back to stable 190.53. Don't know what fixed that.

> **blueridgedog said:**
> The crash I reported was the only one I had...so I have attributed it to something odd I was doing.

---

