---
title: "inadvertant upgrade -cannot boot"
date: 2007-06-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by f-emeral on 2007-06-07
The good news is that I haven't enjoyed playing with an OS so much for years the bad news is that i don't make good decisions in the early hours of the morning.

Sorry this is embarrassing. Having got my Feisty installation set up and running really well I have broken it!

I installed automatrix 2 late last night and added the media codecs . Was about to close down machine when I got an 'updates ready' message. Accepted without checking/thinking and seem to have performed some sort of major system update. ( really big download -about 180 updates if i recall correectly))  As a consequence I cannot boot into Ubuntu (Windows XP installation is still accessible via GrubEd) i have tried all the listed Ubuntu boot options but nothing happens. I can use live cd to mount the partition where Feisty is installed.
Would be extremely grateful if someone can help with a rescue plan. Ideally to save the installation or at worst with ideas for salvaging my home folder which I guess would be useful if I do need to reinstall?
TIA John

---

### Post by f-emeral on 2007-06-07
tried recovery mode again - after long delay got @Alert /dev/didk/by-uuid/2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-# e4df50009fb3

does not exist dropping to shell /bin/sh:can't access tty.
I do notice the 'hash' in the above - would this indicate that the rest of the address is commented out?

Does any of the following give any clues as to the problem/solution?
fdik output:
Disk /dev/hda: 81.9 GB, 81964302336 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9964 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        2902    23310283+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda2            2903        8090    41672610    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/hda3            8091        9964    15052905   83  Linux
/dev/hda5            2903        8002    40965718+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda6            8003        8090      706828+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/hdb: 40.0 GB, 40027029504 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4866 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdb1               1        4653    37375191    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/hdb2            4654        4866     1710922+   f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)

fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
/dev/hda3
UUID=2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-e4df50009fb3 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/hda6
UUID=96693fa8-deb0-4818-bc46-2a07e28dfe63 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/cdrom       /media/cdrom2   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hdb1   /media/hdb1   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/hda5   /media/hda5   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

menu.lst

splashimage (hd0,2)/boot/grub/images/grubed_splash.xpm.gz
# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		2

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-e4df50009fb3 ro

## Setup crashdump menu entries
## e.g. crashdump=1
# crashdump=0

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd0,2)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=2

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title			Ubuntu - LINUX
root			(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-e4df50009fb3 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic
quiet
savedefault

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-#e4df50009fb3 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-#e4df50009fb3 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
quiet
savedefault

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-#e4df50009fb3 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic

title		Ubuntu, memtest86+
root		(hd0,2)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Default operating system:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/hda1
title		XP Professional SP2
root		(hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader	+1

Again any help or pointers would be much appreciated.

Thanks
John

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-06-07
The 'default  2' line indicates it's set to boot the third kernel down (the -15 one):
> title Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
root (hd0,2)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=UUID=2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-**#**e4df50009fb3 ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
quiet
savedefault

But it has that hash...The -16 is the only kernel that doesn't, which is how  the uuid is listed in fstab...What happens when you choose to boot 'Ubuntu -LINUX'--the 2.6.20-16 kernel?

---

### Post by f-emeral on 2007-06-07
I have tried booting with each possible option including the one you ask about -  in each case the system appears to freeze for 10 minutes - I then get the same error message .....cannot access tty.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-06-07
Then I'd try taking out the UUID's in your menu.lst and fstab files and replacing them with 'dev/hda3'.

Backup any files before changing them:
> sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst_bak
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab_bak

Then,
> gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

Edit the 'kopt' line::
> # kopt=root=**/dev/hda3** ro

Then the automagic section:

> ## ## End Default Options ##

title Ubuntu - LINUX
root (hd0,2)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=**/dev/hda3** ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic
quiet
savedefault

title Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic (recovery mode)
root (hd0,2)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=**/dev/hda3** ro single
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic

title Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
root (hd0,2)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=**/dev/hda3** ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
quiet
savedefault

title Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic (recovery mode)
root (hd0,2)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic root=**/dev/hda3** ro single
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic

title Ubuntu, memtest86+
root (hd0,2)
kernel /boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

Next take out the UUIDs in fstab.  For example, using the UUID scheme your / (root) partition may look like this:
> UUID=2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-e4df50009fb3  /  ext3  defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

Or:

# /dev/hda3
UUID=2d7f92a3-b61d-4cf1-85ff-e4df50009fb3  /  ext3  defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

Change it thus:
** /dev/hda3**  /  ext3  defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

Do the same for swap partition. 

Give that a shot.

---

### Post by f-emeral on 2007-06-07
Hi Logos 34
I really appreciate your support. A little progress -I changed all the UUID s as you suggested. 
Still cannot boot 2.6.20-16 or 2.6.20-16 recovery. However I can boot 2.6.20-15 recovery and 2.6.20-15 to the point that I get "Failed to start X server" It shows as using config file /etc/X11/xorg.conf and the 2.6.20-15 generic kernel.

I restored a backup xorg.conf that I made a few days ago. X server still fails though.
Xorg.0.log shows 'screens found but none have a usable configuration- fatal server error.

I'm determined to stick with this - even though it's a really steep learning curve!!
I look forward to hearing what you suggest next as a course of action. 

cheers,
John

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-06-07
From the command line in recovery:

**sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg**

It'll take you through a manual config.  Mostly you can just hit enter. Answer the best you can.

---

### Post by f-emeral on 2007-06-07
Ok - did sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
I now get a login screen!! However when I log in I then get a small window with file,edit,view,terminal,tabs,help and a message saying 'there was an error creating the child process for this terminal'
Screen is totally frozen -
 
also I don't think I set up my usb mouse properly - it flashes on and off but doesn't work.

i'm calling it a day - need some sleep!
Will carry on tomorrow,
Many thanks
cheers
John

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-06-07
Well at least you;re making some progress!  Too bad about the error messages in the desktop...not sure I can help you in that area. 

I have a usb trackball and I think the 'explroer ps/2' setting works (for me at least).

---

