---
title: "ati graphics drivers PLEASE HELP ME!!!!"
date: 2008-11-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mcheshpants on 2008-11-18
I tried installing ubuntu on my new computer and im having some serious problems with drivers. I have the "HIS Radeon HD 2600 XT 512MB (128bit) GDDR3 IceQ Turbo 2x Dual Link DVI HDMI RoHS" Graphics card and when i install the drivers for it and restart my computer my monitor says that the frequency is out of range. Ive tried a couple other monitors taht support higher resolution and still i cant see anything. Ive tried various terminal commands to try and change the resolution and stuff but nothing will work.Im starting to think that im not going to beable to use linux on this computer What can i do? does anyone have this graphics card? Im so frustrated.  PLEASE HELP ME SO I DONT HAVE TO USE WINDOWS ANYMORE!!!!!!! ](*,)****

---

### Post by whitegourd on 2008-11-18
You could give this a try ...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=986559](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=986559)

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-18
IF you have a live cd, then boot with it, go into the drive that ubuntu is intstalled on enter into /ect/X11 then find xorg.conf and post it here

---

### Post by mrtomservo on 2008-11-18
Could you post what type of monitor you have?  (brand and model number)  Whatever default resolution the ATI drivers are choosing might not be supported by the monitor.

---

### Post by mcheshpants on 2008-11-18
monitor = compaq fs7555        and      dell trinitron p1130

---

### Post by mcheshpants on 2008-11-18
i tried terminal command "dpgk-reconfigure xserver-xorg"
 
then i booted into safe mode and did the repair xserver thing or whatever and now i cant see the screen where i log in but when it loads my desktop it just goes to a blank white screen.....

i also tried using the live cd....

](*,)
](*,)
](*,)
](*,)

---

### Post by mcheshpants on 2008-11-18
i have 8.041 LTS should i try a differant version???

i realy dont wanna have to keep using windows :cry: :sad:

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-18
can you not get to xorg.conf?

---

### Post by mcheshpants on 2008-11-18
i just tried to open it "i dunno if thats correct im kind of a noob" but it said something along the lines of its not a supported text document or somethiong

i thank you for any and all input BTW

---

### Post by mcheshpants on 2008-11-18
what did you want me to do with xorg.conf?

would something like "sudo sh /etc/x11/xorg.conf/" in the terminal be the same thing?

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-18
I was just wandering if ther was anything that might need to be edited. 
Now, what i'm wandering is why it wouldn't let you open it, my brother opened xorg.conf through an ubuntu live Cd and it worked perfectly. Try to open it by right-clicking and using the "open with" option, then selecting text editor (gedit) it should work. Post resutls.

---

### Post by mcheshpants on 2008-11-18
i was able to open it with gedit :)    but i still cant figure out whats going on here
what should i change?

---

### Post by mcheshpants on 2008-11-18
this is what my xorg.conf looks like



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"xorg"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

:confused:

---

