---
title: "10.04 GRUB doesn't boot after sudden restart"
date: 2010-09-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vcppp_p on 2010-09-14
Hi,
I had Ubuntu 10.04 on my 500GB Samsung drive.
Today it suddenly stopped responding, not only X11 but the whole system (Ctrl + alt + f1 didn't worked either) so I had to force restart it. Since then, I can't boot it again - right after memory test and general motherboard splash, the white line cursor goes about 3 lines down of topline and stops there.
After about 5 minutes there's still no GRUB menu.
Finally I had reinstalled the system (which is not really much pain since my "home" was on other partition than the system, but it didn't helped - still the same.
On the other hand, booting USB Live works perfectly fine (I'm using it right now). I have an access to all the partitions, all the data seems to be there, SMART utility says the hdd is healthy ... I have no idea where to start digging for a solution :(

Please help!

Oh, and I tried reinstalling with grub-reinstall before, it said that the reinstallation went fine but didn't helped either :(

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-14
try to boot off a live cd, and run 
```
fdisk -l
```to determine the name of your drive (ie: /dev/sda1)

then (with the disk in question unmounted)
run 
```
 fsck -f -c -p <drivename>
``` to automatically repair the filesystem and to mark bad blocks on your disk.

for future reference, when your system becomes unresponsive, try this:
hold Alt + Printscrn and slowly type these letters (watch your disk access light. if it lights up, wait until it is off again before entering the next letter)

r e i s u b

this will attempt to unmount your disks and bring your system down safely. 
sometimes a lockup is too deep in the system for a reisub to work, in which case there is nothing left to do but kill the power.

---

### Post by vcppp_p on 2010-09-14
thanks, I'll note that tip and stick to the monitor ;D

fsck said:
> 
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fsck -f -c -p /dev/sda1
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2
/dev/sda1: Updating bad block inode.
/dev/sda1: 138900/3055616 files (0.1% non-contiguous), 804386/12206848 blocks
let's see what happens ...

---

### Post by vcppp_p on 2010-09-14
it didn't changed anything ... still the GRUB doesn't load ...

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-14
> **vcppp_p said:**
> it didn't changed anything ... still the GRUB doesn't load ...
just to be sure, /dev/sda1 is the disk that contains your MBR, right? you can tell from fdisk -l output, by looking at the active feild (will contain an * if active). 

it is possible for a crash to physically damage your drive or your firmware, though these incidences are rare (had it happen once in the last 14 years). if your bios has an integrated HDD test utility, give it a run. 

if a full reinstall didn't do anything, then the problem isn't the filesystem, but may still be bad blocks. since the fsck reindexed the bad blocks, it may work this time, but i am loathe to ask you to reinstall again.

I'm at a bit of a loss on this one.

---

### Post by vcppp_p on 2010-09-14
> **endotherm said:**
> just to be sure, /dev/sda1 is the disk that contains your MBR, right? you can tell from fdisk -l output, by looking at the active feild (will contain an * if active)
whoops, the problem might be here. The star * points to /dev/sdb1 which is my old HDD, while /dev/sda is the new one (and /dev/sda1 is the system partition) ... how do I repair that?!

Yet it should boot the proper disc anyway, since the new one is set as primary boot device in BIOS.

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-14
> **vcppp_p said:**
> whoops, the problem might be here. The star * points to /dev/sdb1 which is my old HDD, while /dev/sda is the new one (and /dev/sda1 is the system partition) ... how do I repair that?!

Yet it should boot the proper disc anyway, since the new one is set as primary boot device in BIOS.
true, but just because the bios believes that an MBR should be there, doesn't mean that it is. 
try reinstalling grub2, with the sdb1 disk removed, and see what happens
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-09-14
It would help if you could boot a LiveCD and post the results of the bootscript linked to at the bottom of my post please.

---

### Post by vcppp_p on 2010-09-15
Ok, so there's what I did:
> 
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sda
Installation finished. No error reported.
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo update-grub
[COLOR=Red]**/usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for / (is /dev mounted?).**[/COLOR]


The results of bootscript:

> 
                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #1 for /boot/grub.
 => Syslinux is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda6: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

sda7: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

sda8: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

sdb1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       vfat
    Boot sector type:  Fat32
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1               2,048    97,656,831    97,654,784  83 Linux
/dev/sda2          97,658,878   976,771,071   879,112,194   5 Extended
/dev/sda5          97,658,880   107,421,695     9,762,816  82 Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6         107,423,744   126,953,471    19,529,728  83 Linux
/dev/sda7         126,955,520   712,890,367   585,934,848  83 Linux
/dev/sda8         712,892,416   976,771,071   263,878,656  83 Linux


Drive: sdb ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sdb: 8005 MB, 8005787648 bytes
32 heads, 63 sectors/track, 7756 cylinders, total 15636304 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sdb1    *             63    15,636,095    15,636,033   b W95 FAT32


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs                                 
/dev/loop1       10d0c453-c806-1640-9bd7-c1b95485d88c   ext2       casper-rw                     
/dev/sda1        07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653   ext4                                     
/dev/sda2: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sda5        1bfeee71-2f8a-4d1a-b310-b22ccff51875   swap                                     
/dev/sda6        fa0b6067-a375-4494-b635-921e152a9ee1   ext4                                     
/dev/sda7        87a3f69e-c5e0-4a18-a107-7967421e73eb   ext4                                     
/dev/sda8        e6457aa2-a546-46c8-93fd-98a2818cfd79   ext4                                     
/dev/sda: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sdb1        DCA6-0DC3                              vfat       PENDRIVE                      
/dev/sdb: PTTYPE="dos" 

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

aufs             /                        aufs       (rw)
/dev/sdb1        /cdrom                   vfat       (rw,relatime,fmask=0022,dmask=0022,codepage=cp437,iocharset=iso8859-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (ro,noatime)
/dev/sda1        /mnt                     ext4       (rw)


=========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd1,1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd1,1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=pl
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, za pomoc&#261; systemu Linux 2.6.32-21-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic root=UUID=07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, za pomoc&#261; systemu Linux 2.6.32-21-generic (tryb ratunkowy)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653
    echo    'Wczytywanie systemu Linux 2.6.32-21-generic...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic root=UUID=07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653 ro single 
    echo    'Wczytywanie pocz&#261;tkowego dysku RAM...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Professional (on /dev/sda1)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set f0e024d0e0249eba
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Professional (on /dev/sda2)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,2)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set cca4551ba45508fa
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sdb1 during installation
UUID=07c391e0-7c9f-465c-93fd-03430173c653 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sdb5 during installation
UUID=1bfeee71-2f8a-4d1a-b310-b22ccff51875 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


  47.3GB: boot/grub/core.img
  36.8GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
  47.4GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
  47.3GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic
  47.4GB: initrd.img
  47.3GB: vmlinuz


---

