---
title: "9.10 bootup hangs at 'filesystem checks are in progress'"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lowpan on 2009-10-31
I have just upgraded from 9.04UNR to 9.10UNR.  Now when I boot up, It hang at the black screen at the beginning:

filesystem checks are in progress
... ... 2%
press ESC to skip

Sometimes the progress gets stuck at 2%, sometimes I can go up to 8%, but then it just hangs.  If I press ESC to skip, then the system boots up fine.  

What causes this?  and how can I bypass doing this check everytime?

I'm using a Dell Mini 12.    I didn't have this problem on 9.04.

---

### Post by lowpan on 2009-10-31
I'm thinking it's got something to do with i915 and initramfs.

After I upgraded, my video didn't work well, because of Intel Poulsbo drivers are not available for Karmic.  So I followed the instructions in [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo/](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo/) to get video working.  Instruction called for blacklist i915 and update-initramfs.  Video now works fine.

Reading through launchpad bug log, similar bugs were reported about bootup hanging ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/431812](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/431812)), in alpha and beta Karmic and fixed in final release.  

Is anyone else having the same problem?  Since I need the video fix, I'm hoping to skip this filesystem check, how do I configure not to do this check?

---

### Post by shriniketsarkar on 2009-11-15
Hi even i upgraded from Ubuntu 9.04 to 9.10 and the system boots properly at times but sometimes it starts checking .But in my case if i press Esc then it just boots normally or many times keeps restarting ....
Also the progress never goes above 1% even if i leave it checking for say half an hour.
Any idea how to get rid of this ...?

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2009-11-15
I read an older peace about same problem and the tech mentioned to when reboot
sudo shutdown -h now  and  sudo shutdown -r now for reboot.  

Going to give a try till gets a fix or someone has edit that is proven in launchpad.

Says something to do with disc not unmounting properly and causing errors.

I run fsck from shell and it fixes for a while. Have to say yes to a lot of errors to get
disk back in shape.  Something not right in Dodge about this problem. Dodge was town
back in old American west for you outside the States.

---

