---
title: "10.04 Almost unusable on recent pc build"
date: 2011-04-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by prcdslnc13 on 2011-04-05
I recently built a pc to run 10.04 and EMC2 from linuxcnc.org I havent even gotten to the point of trying out EMC2 on this machine because Ubuntu runs so slow. The build spec's are as follows:

[http://www.geeks.com/details.asp?invtid=MS-6714-CEL24-PB-R](http://www.geeks.com/details.asp?invtid=MS-6714-CEL24-PB-R) MS-6714 mobo
Intel 2.4ghz celeron processor
2x512 PC-3200 patriot ram
using integrated graphics
40gb Maxtor IDE hd

I installed using the live CD downloaded from linuxcnc.org and Ive used that same cd multiple times so I know that's not my issue. 

Now to my problems. The computer runs, just very very slow. Opening 2 web pages at the same time takes 2-3 minutes, and if there is a lot of pictures or content there's no point in trying. Running EMC2 works ok, but if I open a complex program in the viewer all bets are off. 

Do you guys have any ideas?

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-04-05
You are running 32-bit right?

Old Intel graphics (and this particular model) have garbage drivers, this could be causing the issue. Make sure the window manager composition is not enabled (Apps -> Settings -> Setting Manager -> WM tweaks).

Then you can check Apps -> System -> System monitor to make sure you don't have a rogue process taking 100% RAM or something of the sort.

For Firefox in particular, flash for Linux takes huge amount of system resources. If you are visiting web-pages with lots of flash (and most pages nowadays have some flash), then you will have to install FlashBlock just to sort it out. (I need flash-block on a 4 core CPU with 4GB RAM and Nvidia video card).

---

### Post by prcdslnc13 on 2011-04-05
cool Ill try that tonight, I am running 32 bit on this machine, I think thats all the EMC distro's run. I pulled up system manager and just running that was using like 20% at times. I couldnt believe that system manager was bogging me down. But I will try the window tweak and see if that does anything. I figured the graphics were part of the problem.

One thing that Im wondering about is this board is spec'd for PC-2100 memory and Im using PC3200. When Ive done this running window's its never been a problem because they are the same DDR standard, so it just down-clocks the ram accordingly. Could this be causing some of my problems?

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-04-05
Problems with the RAM would likely crash the machine. If it is stable with windows, then it should be fine for Linux. Video is probably the problem.

---

### Post by ghostborg on 2011-04-05
Double check the graphics appeture size in the bios settings.
If set too low you system could slow down.
That gives your onboard graphics memory.
I usually set it anywhere from 128 to 512 meg.
That would take available memory away from your total system ram.

Check info about the ram. I noticed something saying PC2100 standard and 133MHz.
[http://www.querycat.com/question/0cbb55385874bcd2a7bd6ffb38bcb6cf]("http://www.querycat.com/question/0cbb55385874bcd2a7bd6ffb38bcb6cf")

Main Memory 

&#8226; Supports two 184-pin DDR200/DDR266 DIMMs
&#8226; Supports Max. memory size of 2GB
&#8226; Support 2.5V DDR DIMM
&#8226; No support ECC Function

---

### Post by prcdslnc13 on 2011-04-05
the highest the bios will allow is 128 and that is where it is set now.

---

### Post by prcdslnc13 on 2011-04-05
Crucial no longer carries PC2100 (DDR266) memory, but PC2700 (DDR333)  memory and PC3200 (DDR400) are backward-compatible with PC2100. Memory  is designed to be backward-compatible, so generally speaking, you can  safely add faster memory to a computer that was designed to run slower  memory.

thats from the site you posted, so I should be good.

---

