---
title: "asus aspire v5 571"
date: 2013-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tuxulin on 2013-11-05
hi
how do i install windows 7 and ubuntu 13 or 12 on my asus aspire v5 571?

when i bought the machine it came with windows 8. after 1 hour all i had was headache
so i delete every partition fromt the harddisk.
i went into the bios and switched off uefi, turned on legacy, turned off secure boot.

installed windows 7 created 4 partitions rebooted and began installing ubuntu.
at the harddisk and partition - i selected "Something else"
the only thing that is seen is the "whole" disk, it does not show the partitions at all, 
no windows partition.

i formated the machine again and installed ubuntu choosed "Something else"
created 4 partitions went on with the installation. all went well yet when i boot into
windows and goto partitions all it see is the harddisk as a whole not showing the partition.

please help.
thanks

---

### Post by tuxulin on 2013-11-06
does any one knows why linux cannot see partitions of an harddrive 
but it sees the harddrive as the whole in one.


thanks

---

### Post by tuxulin on 2013-11-06
ok here is some new info .... this acer aspire v5 is stressing me out

i have windows 7 installed on 1 of 4 partition. the hard disk is 800gig
booting from a live ubuntu 64bit dvd i click try

in live mode i can see all 4 partitions but once i click install ubuntu
and get to the option "Something Else" after clicking that
i can no longer see the 4 partition instead it shows the 800gig harddrive as is 
it has nothing on it.

why is it i can see the partitions in live mode but not in installation mode?

please cast me a life line as this laptop is driving me nuts

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-11-06
> **tuxulin said:**
> in live mode i can see all 4 partitions but once i click install ubuntu
and get to the option "Something Else" after clicking that
i can no longer see the 4 partition instead it shows the 800gig harddrive as is 
it has nothing on it.
Might help if you post the Summary report generated by "[Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair")".

---

