---
title: "14.04LTS black screen freeze after password login"
date: 2018-01-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Richard_York on 2018-01-08
My ancient Samsung R50, 32bit, was running 14.04LTS quite happily. Now on start-up if offers me my own wallpaper screen, but oversized, then the password box, likewise larger than usual; it appears to accept the password, then freezes on a black screen. 
I think the last thing it did previously was to accept the latest regular update, though can't be sure. (We share two laptops & a desktop  between two of us.)
Is there a way to rescue it other than reinstalling 14.04? Inevitably there are things I'd not backed up in there!

Answers with minimal jargon will be really helpful, thank you.
If it is a reinstall, it'll be 14 again: I tried 16 last year, but on this small 32bit machine it just didn't go.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2018-01-08
Sounds like a graphics driver issue. Can you access the grub menu and use an older kernel to boot? It may get you to a working desktop, although it doesn't really solve the problem.

If your computer is too old to run the latest Ubuntu, it's usually a better option to run the latest (LTS) version of a lighter flavour than an old version of regular Ubuntu. Maybe try Lubuntu 16.04.

---

### Post by Richard_York on 2018-01-08
Thanks. 
I regret my ignorance is too great to know how to access a grub menu and what to do with it, though I'll try some research.

That laptop has been running 14.04 satisfactorily from 2014 until yesterday, except when I tried installing 16, and  then went back to 14, some time last year,  so unless the latest update has somehow overloaded it I feel the machinery should cope.
If I could only get as far as accessing its settings &  Documents I'd be quite willing to reformat & reinstall from USB, or if necessary try Lubuntu.

---

### Post by Richard_York on 2018-01-08
Amazing. Having seen that pressing Shift during Boot might access the Grub menu, I tried it, just to see what happened, in case something appeared which I could then follow up. I have not a clue why, but the thing started up normally, except for noting a system problem, & offering to send a report, which I accepted.
So in a way, your answer has worked, Impavidus! Thanks.

---

