---
title: "11.04 gnome 3 multi-user permissions"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by reet on 2011-04-30
Hi All,
I have just upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04. My system has two user accounts, and both were working fine after the upgrade using the Unity interface.

I installed Gnome 3 via the PPA, using the directions [here]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-common-gnome-3-issues-on-ubuntu-11-04-natty.html").

Gnome 3 is working just dandy on my primary user account, but the other account it is not. In fact, I created a fresh user account and it had the same behaviour.

Both my user accounts have the same permissions, and both are members of the same group "users".

When attemping to log-in, I am greeted with an error writing to .ICEauthority, and "gconf-sanity-check-2 status 256". The user logs in with a gnome 2 interface, however with little to no funtionality...nothing in the applications menu, etc.

I've attached .xsession-errors which displays a lot of problems with permissions. I have verified permissions to the /tmp folder are fine.

Does anyone have any ideas as to my problems. Like I said, I created a completely new user, and it did the same, so I am limited to the single user that is working right now.

Thanks!

---

### Post by reet on 2011-04-30
To shed a little more light on the problem, it appears that the newly created user is not loading the xsession that is selected in GDM when logging in. 

I purposely went to /usr/share/xsessions and changed the contents of gnome-shell.desktop to break it, and my working user account broke with an error "invalid session" or something to that effect, however the other user loaded just the same as always, even though I selected the same session to load.

Here is gnome-shell.desktop:

[Desktop Entry]
Name=Ubuntu GNOME Shell Desktop
Comment=This session logs you into GNOME with GNOME Shell
Exec=gnome-session --session=gnome
TryExec=gnome-session
Icon=
Type=Application

Just for clarification, I edited the Exec line to say "gome" instead of gnome.

In addition, sometimes when I am switching users, I get a message that gnome-settings-daemon is not responding. It then starts eating all the CPU shortly after, and I have to manually kill it.

My installation was an upgrade from 10.10, I could do a fresh clean install if I knew if would fix the problems, however I'd like to keep that as last resort, as that's more of a M$ type of fix ;)

---

### Post by reet on 2011-05-01
Today I did a clean install of Ubuntu 11.04, then installed gnome 3 from PPA using the method in the link from my first post.

Now this time I did not make any new users, so there is only one user account in the system. When attempting to log in, selecting the "Ubuntu Gnome Shell Desktop", I am greeted with the following message:

"Could not update ICEauthority file /home/reet/.ICEauthority"

The only button is "Log Out", which does specifically that.

Does anyone have any ideas? I'd really like to use Gnome 3 instead of the Unity interface.

---

### Post by reet on 2011-05-01
I think maybe the Gnome 3 PPA is broken.

I created a new user account, and tried to log in via gdm. It gave the same message about ICEauthority, however I checked and it did not even create the /home/user directory.

So I then gave full permissions to /home (chmod 1777), then when logging in the user directory was created, but the .ICEauthority file was not. Not even after running "chmod 1777 /home/user"

Something is not right. I guess I am going to have to stick with Unity for a bit...I see there is another thread with more people reporting the same problem with .ICEauthority after installing gnome 3. It just doesn't work.

What I'd really like to know is how it was working on my one user account the first time...

---

### Post by itmanvn on 2011-05-01
> **reet said:**
> Today I did a clean install of Ubuntu 11.04, then installed gnome 3 from PPA using the method in the link from my first post.

Now this time I did not make any new users, so there is only one user account in the system. When attempting to log in, selecting the "Ubuntu Gnome Shell Desktop", I am greeted with the following message:

"Could not update ICEauthority file /home/reet/.ICEauthority"

The only button is "Log Out", which does specifically that.

Does anyone have any ideas? I'd really like to use Gnome 3 instead of the Unity interface.

I have same problem after upgrade to 11.04 from 10.10 and then gnome 3. please help

---

### Post by layr on 2011-05-02
+1
Fresh installation of 11.04, switched back to gnome2 and ran
```
gksudo add-apt-repository ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3
gksudo apt-get update
gksudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```
After reboot same as abovementioned - "Could not update ICEauthority file /home/*user*/.ICEauthority"

---

### Post by toxiclung on 2011-05-02
+1

same problem, is there any working gnome3 repository for 11.04?

cheers

---

### Post by reet on 2011-05-02
Well at least I'm not the only one. ;)

So I know that the problem is not exclusive to me, and a serious problem like this should be fixed in short time. 

I wish I knew how it was working on one of my user accounts the first time around, that must hold the key to the problem, however I cannot reproduce it, so we are SOL until the Gnome3 PPA or whatever the problem is is fixed.

---

### Post by reet on 2011-05-03
Found another PPA. Anyone care to try it out? I am tired of breaking my OS and reinstalling, so maybe I'll try it on the weekend...

This is from a post from when 11.04 was still in beta, so take that for what it is:

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntugnometeam/gnome3
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntugnometeam/ppa-gen
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ugr-desktop-g3 gnome-shell
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

Also, I found this post, which seems to imply some problem with gnome-session:
[http://jeremy.bicha.net/2011/04/30/how-to-use-the-gnome-3-ppa-in-ubuntu-11-04/](http://jeremy.bicha.net/2011/04/30/how-to-use-the-gnome-3-ppa-in-ubuntu-11-04/)

---

### Post by layr on 2011-05-03
> **reet said:**
> Found another PPA. Anyone care to try it out? I am tired of breaking my OS and reinstalling, so maybe I'll try it on the weekend...

This is from a post from when 11.04 was still in beta, so take that for what it is:

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntugnometeam/gnome3
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntugnometeam/ppa-gen
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ugr-desktop-g3 gnome-shell
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

Also, I found this post, which seems to imply some problem with gnome-session:
[http://jeremy.bicha.net/2011/04/30/how-to-use-the-gnome-3-ppa-in-ubuntu-11-04/](http://jeremy.bicha.net/2011/04/30/how-to-use-the-gnome-3-ppa-in-ubuntu-11-04/)

Edit:
```
sudo apt-get install ugr-desktop-g3 gnome-shell
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 gnome-shell : Depends: gir1.2-mutter-2.91 (>= 3.0.0) but it is not going to be installed
E: Broken packages
```

---

### Post by itmanvn on 2011-05-03
> **layr said:**
> +1
Fresh installation of 11.04, switched back to gnome2 and ran
```
gksudo add-apt-repository ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3
gksudo apt-get update
gksudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```
After reboot same as abovementioned - "Could not update ICEauthority file /home/*user*/.ICEauthority"

install gnome-session will fix the problem:popcorn:

---

### Post by layr on 2011-05-03
> **itmanvn said:**
> install gnome-session will fix the problem:popcorn:
No it didn't lol.

---

### Post by bmbaker on 2011-05-03
try this approach and start again

```
[B][I]sudo apt-get install ppa-purge 
sudo ppa-purge ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3             [/I]
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo add-apt-repository **ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3**
sudo apt-get update
sudo add-apt-repository [/B][B][B]ppa:ricotz/testing
sudo apt-get update
[/B][/B]**sudo apt-get dist-upgrade**
**[B] sudo apt-get install gnome-shell**[/B]
```[B]

to get the extensions
[/B]```
cd
git clone [http://git.gnome.org/browse/gnome-shell-extensions](http://git.gnome.org/browse/gnome-shell-extensions)
cd gnome-shell-extensions
./[autogen.sh]("http://autogen.sh/") --prefix=/usr
make && sudo make install      
```

---

### Post by bmbaker on 2011-05-03
there is alot of useful information in this thread too :-)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1722627&highlight=ppa-purge](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1722627&highlight=ppa-purge)

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-05-03
> **layr said:**
> Edit:
```
sudo apt-get install ugr-desktop-g3 gnome-shell
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 gnome-shell : Depends: gir1.2-mutter-2.91 (>= 3.0.0) but it is not going to be installed
E: Broken packages
```


I found this too originally .... that the above package did not want to load ...... so I loaded it first ,,,,,, 
gir1.2-mutter 
See my link in my signature this is the one I load first though - as when things go wrong it sometimes helps
to purge it and start again ...... but load this in first ...... I have a list of step by step that I use to get it working
in my link in my signature ....... if you do get any problems let me know though and I will try to work out why ?
loading this first before gnome-shell/gnome3-session - should not give you the dependency problem later on ...... 
 (**sudo aptitude install gir1.2-mutter-3.0**)
before installing gnome3-session.

[https://sites.google.com/site/000menu/home/gnome---3](https://sites.google.com/site/000menu/home/gnome---3)  as this is constantly being updated at the moment as things can change.

(most of it seems pretty stable for me now and the Gnome-shell has become my main desktop on 3 computers now ......)

I noticed too that no one seemed to be loading **gnome3-session **...... not sure if it makes a difference
but some of the problems seem related to session ...... so maybe this is the difference.

I know [UGR]("http://ugr.teampr0xy.net/") are having a lot of success now ..... so check that link too ......

---

### Post by layr on 2011-05-04
Tried 23dornot23d and bmbaker instructions - either broken packages or .ICEauthority problems:P
Are there going to be fix/detailed instructions coming or should i just wait for 11.10 (as .04 was never meant for gnome3)?

---

### Post by jbicha on 2011-05-05
Some of your problems are because you are not installing things  correctly. gksu or gksudo are only for GUI commands, not for  command-line stuff. So *gksu gedit *is correct but it's *sudo add-apt-repository* and *sudo mv file* and *sudo apt-get upgrade*.

[This post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10771921#post10770676") might be able to help you but running the wrong commands is not supported. And you really shouldn't be running the Gnome3 PPA if you don't know how to fix your problems. It is a developer preview and is not meant for everyone to use.

---

### Post by reet on 2011-05-05
Thanks a lot for that post link. It looks like there is a lot of information there, so I will read through it and see if I can fix my problems. My free time to play with things like this is pretty slim, but in the end I would much prefer to be running Gnome 3 over Unity. 

I do not care that it is a "developer preview" as you say, when I did have it working I found it to be stable, so if I can get it working for all users than I am happy. I'm fairly intelligent, and troubleshoot problems for a living, so I am sure I will sort this out eventually, just a matter of available time at the moment. If I break my OS, it only takes an hour to restore it, so not a big deal.

---

### Post by layr on 2011-05-06
> **jbicha said:**
> Some of your problems are because you are not installing things  correctly. gksu or gksudo are only for GUI commands, not for  command-line stuff. So *gksu gedit *is correct but it's *sudo add-apt-repository* and *sudo mv file* and *sudo apt-get upgrade*.

[This post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10771921#post10770676") might be able to help you but running the wrong commands is not supported. And you really shouldn't be running the Gnome3 PPA if you don't know how to fix your problems. It is a developer preview and is not meant for everyone to use.
Thanks for that link indeed. Got Gnome3 going with minor glitch. 
...aaand already back in 10.10 with Gnome 2.32 :P

---

### Post by reet on 2011-05-15
Gnome 3 is working!

---

