---
title: "Serious Graphiccard Problem (NVIDIA)"
date: 2009-12-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lovemylady on 2009-12-04
[COLOR=Purple]My pc crashed, after restart there occured some error like something PCI 8:0:0 etc.. I had some options to reconfigure etc.. blabla.. but nothing really worked .. actually im running ubuntu in (low resolution mode) since that was possible.. I already uninstalled and reinstalled the drivers and yap

I also tryed to open NVIDIA XSERVEr it says that i should run nvidia-config or something similar as root (what i done) doesn'T help either!!..

Somewhere it also told me something about that i should check the error log of my kernel etc..

So i'd be glad if somebody could help me >.<!!

If you need any error log or something similar tell me where I'm able to find 'em and i will directly post em up here. Further infos needed? just ask me i'll tell ya everything I'm able too..
:(

And please so not tell me to use the backup function because i just downloaded a 2gb game lol wich would sureley lost then took me years to download :( !

so let me just scream "heelp" ;)[/COLOR]

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-12-04
How many video cards do you have, and what type/model are they?
What type of monitor do you have?
Post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file please.

We'll take things from there.  That PCI 0:0:0:1 looks eerily similar to a setting I use in my xorg.conf to set which video card my monitor is plugged into.

---

### Post by lovemylady on 2009-12-04
[COLOR=Purple]Well before this pc crash everything worked fine.. just to tell ya and 
I got 
1 Video Card NVIDIA GeForce 8600 M GS
LCD Monitor (Notebook)

And where do i find the xorg file, again?


[/COLOR]> 
Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Default Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection
[COLOR=Purple]

No Idea if this is correct only its the xorg.conf but since im running ubuntu atm in low resolution mode no idea if its correct..




XORG.CONF     my backup file was that

[/COLOR]> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Fri Aug 14 17:54:58 PDT 2009

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LPL"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600M GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


[COLOR=Magenta]
was in the same folder ;)[/COLOR]

---

### Post by lovemylady on 2009-12-04
[COLOR=Magenta]Here I added a picture i took when the **** thing starts.. or tryes to start.. lol

The error message is following:

[/COLOR][[IMG]http://www3.pic-upload.de/thumb/04.12.09/a4hldhhupzbh.jpg[/IMG]]("http://www.pic-upload.de/view-3852673/IMG_0516.jpg.html") 


[COLOR=Red]PS:replaceing the xorg file with the backup didn'T help either!!![/COLOR]

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-12-04
Ok, this should be simple.  Looks like your xorg file got hosed during the crash. Rename your current xorg.conf to something else, change the backup xorg.conf file from whatever it is called now to be xorg.conf and reboot, and you should be good to go.

---

### Post by lovemylady on 2009-12-04
[COLOR=Magenta]I done that already didn't help either![/COLOR]

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-12-04
Are you running 9.10?  If so, I think I know of a way to fix this.

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-12-04
Only do this if you are using 9.10, Karmic Koala!!

Ubuntu 9.10 does not use xorg.conf by default, so what we are going to do is reset you back to default graphics, then rebuild things.

First, rename ALL your xorg.conf files to xorg.confback1, xorg.confback2, etc.

Next, open Synaptic package manager and search for nvidia. Uninstall ALL packages with names containing nvidia.

You should now be able to reboot and get the default graphics you would have upon a fresh 9.10 install. Now you can go back and install the restricted drivers. If no drivers are listed to install, go to Synaptic and install the nvidia modaliases packages and then the drivers will show up in the list. Install your driver.

Now you can run nvidia's config tool and you should be back to where you want to be.

---

### Post by lovemylady on 2009-12-04
[COLOR=Magenta]I fixed it!!!!
But anotherway you than wich you said..

I got a dualboot system 1partition windows 1 partition ubuntu 

I shutoff started vista shutoff again and started ubuntu and everything works fine now again <333 :D

Short:

Restart /start windows
restart/ start ubuntu again..! done :D
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-12-04
Well, a fix is a fix, glad you got it solved!! :))

---

