---
title: "7.10 will not mount my usb hd"
date: 2008-04-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by valpobro on 2008-04-05
i have been trying to get it to show up for two days now reading what others had to do and nothing happens i doesn't show up in the computer or anything there is just no sing of anything hd i just don't no were to start. i have a western d hd and my ipod and neither show up at all. i think i have 7.10 but not shure i just put 7.4 on my comp and did all the upgrades to it.

---

### Post by JimBuntu on 2008-04-05
My usb hd does not show up either. My ipod does just fine. USB HD used to show up on laptop but not on desktop. It is a seagate 250gb. I can see that it turns on (the lights turn on) and I can here the disks running, but will not mount itself.

---

### Post by asisayit on 2008-04-05
Can you post the output of dmesg after you have plugged in your usb hd?

---

### Post by valpobro on 2008-04-05
i don't really know what you mean by that but if you want me to give you what it says when i plug it in it doesn't do or say anything. now i did get my ipod to work idon't really know how but it works now.

---

### Post by valpobro on 2008-04-05
o yeah just so all of you know i know nothing about ubuntu but i will say that all of this was not a prob. with my other comp

---

### Post by warp99 on 2008-04-05
Plug the hard drive in, open a terminal, and type the following:

```
dmesg |tail
```

post the results to this thread.

---

### Post by valpobro on 2008-04-06
daniel@daniel-desktop:~$ dmesg |tail
[   28.559428] Bluetooth: L2CAP socket layer initialized
[   28.616267] Bluetooth: RFCOMM socket layer initialized
[   28.616437] Bluetooth: RFCOMM TTY layer initialized
[   28.616442] Bluetooth: RFCOMM ver 1.8
[   32.786933] NET: Registered protocol family 17
[   36.178088] NET: Registered protocol family 10
[   36.178408] lo: Disabled Privacy Extensions
[   46.983527] eth0: no IPv6 routers present
[  280.337002] end_request: I/O error, dev fd0, sector 0
[  280.360964] end_request: I/O error, dev fd0, sector 0
daniel@daniel-desktop:~$

---

### Post by warp99 on 2008-04-06
Try this, open  a terminal and enter the following:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure udev
```

reboot the computer to load the new initrd.img file, then try the device. If that does not work then:

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall udev
```

reboot the computer, then plug the drive in. If it fails then:

```
dmesg |tail
```

and post the results to this thread.

---

### Post by valpobro on 2008-04-06
ok i did the first one and on rebot it says starting up and says
ramdisk ran out of compressed data 
invalid compressed format err=1
kernel panic - not syncing:vfs: unable to mount root fs on unknown-block 0.0

now i really don't know what to do. i hope i don't have to reinstall ubuntu

please help me

---

