---
title: "screen resolution problem"
date: 2009-06-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by justborn on 2009-06-21
the system doesn't my display.i have only one screen resolution option.
i am currently using an intel board.

what log  or file should i paste for future understanding.

previously too i had the same problem with hardy and intrepid,for hardy i was given an special xorg.conf file that solved but now that too doesn't work.maybe there need to be made some changes in the xorg.conf file .

please help.

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-06-21
Post contents of **/etc/X11/xorg.conf**

---

### Post by hyperdude111 on 2009-06-21
This thread should fix your problem.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1192650](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1192650)

---

### Post by justborn on 2009-06-21
> **Legace said:**
> Post contents of **/etc/X11/xorg.conf**

here it is...

[HTML]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/HTML]

---

### Post by hyperdude111 on 2009-06-21
Edit

---

### Post by hyperdude111 on 2009-06-21
Add a section at the end like this.

Replace 1280x1024 with your resolution

```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1280x1024"
		Virtual	1280 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by justborn on 2009-06-21
> **hyperdude111 said:**
> Add a section at the end like this.

Replace 1280x1024 with your resolution

```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1280x1024"
		Virtual	1280 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

by my resolution u mean the best resolution ,right?

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-06-21
> **justborn said:**
> by my resolution u mean the best resolution ,right?

The one you want to use.

---

### Post by justborn on 2009-06-21
> **hyperdude111 said:**
> Add a section at the end like this.

Replace 1280x1024 with your resolution

```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1280x1024"
		Virtual	1280 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

> **justborn said:**
> by my resolution u mean the best resolution ,right?

i tried different resolutions but i get a messages after i restart,and then i have to reconfigure to default and restart.

---

