---
title: "19.10: Unable to view other Users' directories, though I'm sudo. Pulling my hair out."
date: 2020-01-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-09
Please see the following listings and tell me I've misunderstood something and where I've gone wrong.

Situation:
I have a Lubuntu 19.10 installation with two users:
1: "macro" which is my admin account with sudo rights and PW.
2: "abguest" which is a normal user account with no sudo privileges.

When I (as user "macro") I try to access directories on the "abguest" file system, I get the following:

```

macro@macro-pc:~$ cd ..
macro@macro-pc:/home$ cd abguest
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ cd .config
bash: cd: .config: Permission denied
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ sudo cd .config
[sudo] password for macro: 
sudo: cd: command not found
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ cd .local
bash: cd: .local: Permission denied
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ sudo cd .local
sudo: cd: command not found
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ cd Documents
bash: cd: Documents: Permission denied
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ sudo cd Documents
sudo: cd: command not found
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ ls
Desktop  Documents  Downloads  Music  Pictures  Public  Templates  UUID  Videos
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$

```

What's up here? I mean "cd: command not found" drives me nuts.

Please, please give me a hint. I've nver run into this before.

Thank You.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2020-01-09
'cd' is a built-in command of the shell. sudo can't execute those directly (because there is no executable named 'cd' that sudo could run); you could run a shell with sudo and give it a command but it wouldn't make much sense with 'cd' - 'sudo bash -c 'cd ~abguest/.config' would change to user root, start a new shell, change the working directory, end the shell -> back to the normal user account and back to the old directory. What you could do would be 'sudo ls ~abguest/.config' to see what's in there or you could run the shell as root (always risky and a bad idea, but sometimes convenient) or you could run a shell as user abguest ('sudo -u abguest bash').

Holger

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-09
Thanks Holger, but it's getting worse:
Here's a new listing. Something is totally wrong:

```
macro@macro-pc:~$ cd ..
macro@macro-pc:/home$ cd abguest
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ ls-la
ls-la: command not found
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ sudo ls-la
[sudo] password for macro: 
sudo: ls-la: command not found
macro@macro-pc:/home/abguest$ 

```

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-01-09
`ls` is the command, `-la` your options.  The space between command & options is necessary so the command interpreter (shell) can know which is why. Without the space, your `ls-la` is treated as a command, for which "command not found" is true & correct (there is no ls-la command).

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2020-01-10
There's nothing strange going on.

The root user has full access to all directories of user abguest. However, macro is not the root user. macro is an admin user, who has the right to use sudo. sudo in turn allows macro to execute programs as the root user.

cd however is not a program. It's a shell builtin and there's no way cd could be implemented as something other than a shell builtin, as it is used to change the state (the current working directory) of the current shell. So using "sudo cd" is pointless. The shell has no access to that directory and you can't change the owner of the running shell.

What you can do to look around in abguest's directory is starting a new shell with sudo:```
sudo -s
```Use exit to terminate the root shell. Don't leave your root shell open longer the necessary. It's easy to make a mistake.

You can also give user macro read access to abguest's directory, plus execute access on the directories:```
sudo chmod -R o+rX /home/abguest
```Sniffing around in other people's files isn't very appropriate, but I assume you use this as a guest account and some guest decided to lock you out.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-10
@guiverc: of course the syntax is ls -la. I expect something went wrong when formatting the $CODE section during posting.

@Impavidus:
Just to be precise: "macro" is my main account and it should have Root privileges. "abguest" is a simple user account that visitors can use. There is no "sniffing around", but I often need to correct things that visitors have done.

There are several strange things going on here:
1: It used to work earlier, both with 19.04 and 19.10. But after a reformat, reinstallation and backup, this issue has popped up.
2: In a GUI environment (PCManFM-Qt), I have no problems using the "Open as root" function and listing/modifying/deleting files under "abguest".

I'm still lost, but have a suspicion that the group management has a problem.

Concerning your chmod suggestion, I'm not happy with it. Allowing "others" into a user space is to my mind not good. Working with "group" is more to my liking.

Thank You both for your suggestions, I'll need my thinking hat again...

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-10
OK, fixed! It was indeed group problems. "macro" now belongs to "root" and "abguest" groups, "abguest" belongs to "abguest" group. Dunno why backup mangled this.

Thanks to all :)

---

