---
title: "13.10 Kicks Off WiFi"
date: 2014-04-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Smallwheels on 2014-04-03
I've got Ubuntu 13.10. It has been giving me problems with Firefox for a while by freezing a lot. Tonight something different is going on. I can use WiFi for a while and it just turns off. The graphic on the menu bar shows that I'm connected but no web browser will open. If I then click the icon it will show the name of the network. When I click that network name it will begin to show the graphic that it is trying to connect. In a few moments it will give me the message that the computer is disconnected. I have another computer beside it and it remains connected. What is going on? How can I fix it? 

If I restart the machine it will work with the WiFi for about five minutes and then it quits. I have done this about five times with the same results every time. 

The computer continues to work just fine. I can play movies and open files. I just can't connect to the internet using WiFi. I am too far away from the modem to connect using an ethernet cable. This is a big desktop with a big monitor attached to it. 

Do you think that the constant crashing of Firefox is also related to this problem? The whole machine would freeze when that happened. Ubuntu 13.04 was really great. It froze only a few times in many months. I really don't want to download the 13.10 iso again but I might have to reinstall it from a fresh file. I did not do that before. I updated it from 13.04 about three or four weeks ago. 

This is really a disappointment. Software isn't perfect. I'm learning this lesson a lot lately. With 13.04 I was about ready to give up my 2008 Mac Book and use Ubuntu exclusively. I guess I'm glad I kept it. That is how I'm reaching this forum. 

All help is appreciated.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-04-03
It does sound like more than just a wifi problem, as lack of connection would not, or should not stop your browser from opening.

Are you sure you have no hardware problems? For a start run the memtest86+ from grub and let it run for an extended time, overnight if possible, to check memory modules are not faulty.  If any errors how that could be your problem; if none show after this long memtest, then we must look elsewhere.

---

### Post by Smallwheels on 2014-04-03
I made a mistake when I wrote that the browser wouldn't open. I should have said that the browser appears on the screen but won't connect to the internet. I just get messages saying that it can't connect to the server of whichever site it is trying to reach. 

I don't know what memtest86+ is. If that is still something that should be done then I'll need a set of instructions on how to do it.

---

### Post by XBNCPRk on 2014-04-03
How old is your wifi adapter? As unfortunate as it is, they dont have an indefinite lifespan, and failing circuits in it can cause overheating and disconnects...

The other option is to download a wifi analyzer and make sure that you have a decent signal and no overlapping/interfering networks. If you use one on another device like a tablet or phone to check this, check it AT the location of the computers wifi adapter. Not near it, AT it. A couple inches either way can mean a blocked signal.

---

### Post by Smallwheels on 2014-04-03
> **XBNCPRk said:**
> How old is your wifi adapter? As unfortunate as it is, they dont have an indefinite lifespan, and failing circuits in it can cause overheating and disconnects...

The other option is to download a wifi analyzer and make sure that you have a decent signal and no overlapping/interfering networks. If you use one on another device like a tablet or phone to check this, check it AT the location of the computers wifi adapter. Not near it, AT it. A couple inches either way can mean a blocked signal.

I bought my external WiFi antenna about a year ago, maybe less. It sits on top of a pedestal that doesn't generate heat. It had never felt hot to me but it has felt warm.

---

### Post by XBNCPRk on 2014-04-03
Id suggest then grabbing something like LinSSID and using it to see if theres a signal issue with your wifi. It may be something as simple as a neighbor setting up wifi on an overlapping channel and causing enough interference that yours is simply timing out on everything.

---

### Post by Smallwheels on 2014-04-03
Thank you XBNCPRk for your suggestions. Before delving into seeing if there was a hardware problem I had an idea. I decided to use a LIVE USB in the same computer to test the WiFi connection. I have been using it for about an hour with no problems. The signal strength graphic has full bars. I have not been able to stream video because the codexes are not installed. I can still go to any web page I type into the address bar of the browser. To me this signifies a software glitch. Do you agree? Everybody else is welcome to offer recommendations.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2014-04-04
Hi, copy and paste this command in the terminal (ctrl+alt+t) please:
```
 wget -N -t 5 -T 10 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script
```
It will download a script and create a file named (wireless-info.txt, or wireless-info.txt.tar.gz) in your home folder with wireless information so we can see the condition of your wireless at this time and the Mac address, WPA key and WEP key are removed for your security,  then reply back, click on the paper clip and attach the wireless-info.tar.gz file as a zip file. 

If you do not have ethernet either then follow the directions at this link for running the script without internet.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12350385](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12350385)
Thanks

---

### Post by Smallwheels on 2014-04-04
Thank you Wild Man for helping to diagnose this problem. I have attached the file. If this gets too complicated perhaps I should just load another copy of an OS. I have already put my files on an external hard drive because I updated from 13.04 a few weeks ago. It wouldn't be too difficult but it certainly would take a lot of extra time. Updating was supposed to be easier than doing a fresh installation. 

I'm looking forward to your analysis. Thank you.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2014-04-06
I see the usb adaptor you are using but it does not show an internal device, are you sure you have an internal wireless device? If if there is not a driver for your device installed it should still be seen with the commands in the script.

You can go into your bios and see if you can turn it on there or reset your bios if that does not help you device may have failed.
At least you have an working usb adaptor.
Thanks

---

### Post by Smallwheels on 2014-04-07
My machine does not have an internal WiFi or Bluetooth transmitter. It only used the WiFi adapter. My need for this computer superseded my patients. Thus I did a direct from Live USB installation of the OS. Whatever was wrong was due to a software glitch caused by the 13.04 to 13.10 update process. The WiFi is working fine now without kicking me off after a few minutes of using Flash or other graphical things that bugged the system. It always kicked me off when web pages were either loading or switching tabs. 

Thank you for giving it a shot Wild Man. I'll be asking other questions soon.

---

