---
title: "17.10 causing BIOS issues"
date: 2017-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tob79 on 2017-11-22
Hello,

just for reporting that after installing Ubuntu 17.10, somehow the BIOS is affected and not working properly anymore. New settings cannot be saved and it affects many different users, not only the user who reported the issue here:  

[URL="https://askubuntu.com/questions/970451/unable-to-save-bios-options-after-ubuntu-17-10-upgrade"]Unable to save BIOS options after Ubuntu 17.10 upgrade

[/URL]

  My machine is a Lenovo y50-70 and there are many open topics on  Lenovo Forum regarding this issue, all of them reporting the same  problem. The issue is reported for all of us after installing Ubuntu  17.10


  1) [URL="https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Lenovo-P-Y-and-Z-series/Y50-usb-boot-option-disappeared-in-BIOS/td-p/3384366"]https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Lenovo-P-Y-and-Z-series/Y50-usb-boot-option-disappeared-in-BIOS/td-p/3384366

[/URL]

  On this thread a user, Marcin78 created a "prosthetic" bypass using rEFInd bootloader: [INDENT]   I've created a "prosthetic" bypass allowing me to avoid Lenovo service   and (most probably) very expensive option of replacing MB.
      To the point.
      Premises.
      I had working Antergos installation while discovered the BIOS issue.   Wanted to install new system but was not allowed to change boot   settings (nor in BIOS or via boot menu).
      Using command:
      efibootmgr -v
      I've got my EFI boot configuration that looks like this:
 [/INDENT]
BootCurrent: 0001 Timeout: 0 seconds BootOrder:
> 0001,0002,2001,2002,2003 Boot0001* antergos_grub
> HD(1,GPT,f128f12b-fa3e-45b1-b5c9-f03c328498cb,0x800,0x64000)/File(\EFI\antergos_grub\grubx64.efi) Boot0002* Windows Boot Manager 
> HD(1,GPT,f128f12b-fa3e-45b1-b5c9-f03c328498cb,0x800,0x64000)/File(\EFI\Microsoft\Boot\bootmgfw.efi)RC
> Boot2001* EFI USB Device        RC Boot2002* EFI DVD/CDROM RC
> Boot2003* EFI Network   RC[INDENT]   It means the file grubx64.efi in antergos_grub directory will be   loaded as first. Nothing else. And from no other drive but the 1st   having the ID: f128f12b-fa3e-45b1-b5c9-f03c328498cb
      So. Am I forever bound the Antergos? Well, no.
      Long story short.
      I've downloaded rEFInd package and REPLACED the antergos_grub   directory with the content of rEFInd package, renaming the   refind_x64.efi to grubx64.efi Now, after restart I've rEFInd boot menu   (you can compare it to the BIOS boot menu) with the option for   selecting boot source (including USB drives and optical drive (my case   also via USB)).
      This way I was able to install openSUSE and few other systems in   between.
      BUT!!!!
      You must never erase the first partition with the rEFInd bootloader.
      It will bind automatically systems installed on the next boot   partition.
      What if my hard drive got damaged or anything... Well, I thought of   that too.
      Using command:
      sfdisk -d /dev/sda > HD_partitions.txt
      you get a file named HD_partitions.txt containing IDs of all your   partitions.
      You only need the first value. In my case:
      /dev/sda1 : start=        2048, size=      409600,   type=C12A7328-F81F-11D2-BA4B-00A0C93EC93B,   uuid=F128F12B-FA3E-45B1-B5C9-F03C328498CB, name="EFI System Partition"
      I took second disc, made same first partition on it, exported the   partition table with the same command and REPLACED the uuid value from   the main disc.
      Then what you need to do is flipping the "pipe" direction, from ">" to   "<" and write the partition table to another disc:
  `sfdisk -d /dev/sdb < modified_partition_table.txt`
      (Assuming the second drive is sdb!!!).
      That is all.



 [/INDENT]
there are many other topics like this one on Lenovo Forum
  Could you please give a look into this? And try to fix it?
  Luckily I had just instaled Ubuntu, but many are without O/S., since  specifically our machines are without a Cd-Rom drive and its impossible  to use usb bootable drives, since the bios is totally messed up.
  Thank you
  Ciao

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2017-11-22
Welcome to the forums, tob79.

This appears to be very HW-specific, so most members on these forums cannot physically verify or test. Thanks for your alert, but as noted in the past, all forum members on UF are volunteer users like yourself, and members of the Ubuntu development team rarely if ever visit here. The proper place to post this alert is in Launchpad. Since this is a pretty serious issue if true, it is important to alert the devs on that site, so I would highly encourage you to start a bug report in Launchpad.

---

### Post by QIII on 2017-11-22
Hello.

Your second link does not contain any reference to Ubuntu.  The first has one reference to Lubuntu and a link that leads to another thread that has nothing to do with Ubuntu.

The quote in your post mentions Antergos, which is not Ubuntu.

I agree that from the links you gave, the issue appears to be one associated with your hardware.

And DuckHook's comment bears repeating:  We are all volunteers, none of whom are employed by Canonical.  We aren't Ubuntu developers.  We can't do anything to "fix" Ubuntu.

---

### Post by bford162 on 2017-12-16
This issue apparently affects mostly Lenovo devices.  There is a Launchpad bug about it.  Here is the link. 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1734147](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1734147)

---

### Post by bluemagoo on 2017-12-20
Older Lenovo's such as the W530 class, are not affected by this bug as far as I know.

---

