---
title: "13.04 upgrade won't boot properly with usb 3.0 hub"
date: 2013-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kend650 on 2013-05-24
I have a US Robotics 4 port USB 3.0 hub attached to my System 76 Bonobo5 laptop, and it will not boot smoothly with the hub attached.  If I detach it, the laptop boots smoothly, and I then plug the hub in and everything looks fine.  If I leave the hub attached, then I have to go into the ubuntu advanced options and recovery mode, then reboot and it eventually boots.

I've looked on the US Robotics site and there is no firmware upgrades for the hub, so it must be a 13.04 issue.

Has anyone else had these kinds of problems?  Does anyone have any suggestions?

Thanks in advance,

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-05-24
Please explain: "Does not boot smoothly."

This could be an issue in the BIOS. What do you have attached to the hub? Is the BIOS seeing it as a USB hard drive? Does the internal hard drive have first boot priority?

Regards.

---

### Post by kend650 on 2013-05-24
Smooth boot, to me, means I press the on/off switch and the machine boots to the desktop.  Not booting smoothly means that when I press the on/off switch the machine gives me a lot of console messages, and either hangs, requiring a hard reset or after a long delay boots to the normal desktop.  Now this didn't happen today as I update to the 3.8.0.22 generic kernel from the previous one and it booted 'smoothly' this morning.  The hub is attached to a usb 3.0 slot and has a couple of usb 3.0 drives and a 2.0 usb stick.  One of my usb 2.0 slots has a 7 port hub with 2.0 drives and there is no indication of any issue on the 2.0 stuff.  the BIOS is set to boot from the internal HDD first, then CD/DVD, then USB.  

If this latest updated kernel fixed the issue, I am happy with that, but am surprised that I haven't seen any other posts, comments or issues with the usb 3.0.

Ken

---

