---
title: "(11.10)  Update failure"
date: 2012-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by neferure on 2012-02-14
Security update (see screenshot attachment) attempted to install 14th February failed with error message in task bar. Lost the error message. Rebooted and firefox will not open with no error message, nothing happens.

Firefox will not uninstall with the following error message.

 installArchives() failed: Selecting previously deselected package arora.
  (Reading database ...
  (Reading database ... 5%
  (Reading database ... 10%
  (Reading database ... 15%
  (Reading database ... 20%
  (Reading database ... 25%
  (Reading database ... 30%
  (Reading database ... 35%
  (Reading database ... 40%
  (Reading database ... 45%
  (Reading database ... 50%
  (Reading database ... 55%dpkg: unrecoverable fatal error, aborting:
   reading files list for package 'linux-headers-3.0.0-16': Input/output error
  Error in function:


I cannot select the above package in the synaptic package manager as the manager crashes when I select this package.


I then tried the following in terminal;


sudo rm /var/lib/apt/list/* -vf
sudo apt-get update


With the following final output (see attached terminal file for full output)



  
Fetched 17.1 MB in 1min 44s (163 kB/s)                                                                                                       
  E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
  E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?


And then further tried 



sudo -i
apt-get clean
cd /var/lib/apt
mv lists lists.old
mkdir -p lists/partial
apt-get clean
apt-get update


with the same outcome as above (see terminal file last part)


Firefox still will not open.


Please help


Thank you :-)

---

### Post by OnSite511 on 2012-02-14
After applying the update listed in the first post, my system can't get past the splash screen (the one with the dots), and just sits and does nothing: no disk access, etc.

Is there a way to pitch the updates and return my system to the way it was before the updates (firefox and headers)

[update]
seems that lightdm isn't starting. I was able to get to the command shell, but when I run sudo lightdm, it just goes back to the initial frozen screen.

---

### Post by neferure on 2012-02-18
[COLOR=Red]**Is somebody going to help? Please!!!**[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2012-02-19
To unlock  /var/lib/dpkg/lock enter these commands ```
sudo fuser -vki /var/lib/dpkg/lock
	
sudo dpkg configure -a
```

After entering the first command press “Y” to kill the process.

Then enter ```
sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

### Post by neferure on 2012-02-20
Hi

I started my computer today and now nothing works anymore.

it stays at the loading Ubuntu screen and says

[B]errors were found while checking the disk drive for /.
press F to attempt to fix the errors, I to ignore, S to skip mounting, or M for manual recovery[/B]

What can I do now?

The hard drive was changed about 6 month ago, so I guess this can't be the problem.

Thanks
neferure

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2012-02-21
What happens if you press F or I?

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2012-02-21
It's always BEST to do a fresh install.....backup your data and just do it.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-02-21
Hi

Run a SMART test on your hard drive from a LiveCD/USB. After that run fsck on the filesystem if the SMART test does not return failure.

You may have bought a duff hard drive. Don't assume the hard drive is good just because it's new.

Kind regards

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2012-02-21
What matt_symes says is a good approach. It is looking like your problem is a disk problem and not a security update problem. It may be that the disk is not failing; however, what matt_symes suggested should identify if the problem is a failing disk or a file system problem. It would be a good idea to backup any important data that you don't already have backed up, if you can access it from a live CD, before doing anything to that disk.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-02-21
+1 it sounds like an hard drive problem.

---

