---
title: "3.6.6 is not good - need help rolling back to Firefox 3.0 -"
date: 2010-06-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by texla on 2010-06-30
OK, Firefox in Lucid has been one hassle after another.  I've been to every forum note/fix website for the past three months and tried them all.  I did finally get a version of 3.0 that worked really well.  This morning I traded in my 3.0 version for the latest supposedly Lucid friendly version of FF 3.6.6.  Well, it's not good, half the speed of 3.0 even with all of my addons disabled.  Without going on a long rant against firefox (yet) and what systems they are actually testing their releases on and why it is so hard to make it work in the best open source OS around??  Can somebody explain how I can roll back to version 3.0?  At least that only crashed from time to time (once a day) but it always restored my windows and it was really fast with a ton of addons (aka how firefox used to be)

Every time I try to install 3.0, it reinstalls 3.6.6.  
I've uninstalled 3.6.6 from synaptic and from the terminal.  Then I've tried to reinstall 3.0 but it always grabs 3.6.6 - If not, I'll go back to my clonezilla version that was working...

BTW does anyone know if Microsoft bought firefox or something?? I mean what's up??... 

ok I did rant...

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-06-30
its not so easy because of dependencies issues; when you have some issues with an app, better to remove/purge it then reinstall it with synaptic (if other packages are removed, mostly you only need to reinstall the meta-package ubuntu-desktop)

---

### Post by texla on 2010-06-30
> **dino99 said:**
> its not so easy because of dependencies issues; when you have some issues with an app, better to remove/purge it then reinstall it with synaptic (if other packages are removed, mostly you only need to reinstall the meta-package ubuntu-desktop)

Thanks dino99, I thought it was something a bit more complicated than I was doing. Apparently I was using 3.6.3 before the update not 3.0 because I've just gone back to 3.6.3  with clonezilla and all is good again - for now!  For me 3.6.3 is 10X as fast as 3.6.6. 

It looks like I will be avoiding all Firefox, and possibly all Lucid updates for a while.... (this last update also defaulted my AutoEth0 dsl internet to disconnect after every suspend with no reconnect until I restart - nice - that had been fixed but updates seem to bring it back - alas that's for another thread...

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-06-30
It may be worth trying chromium. 
I've taken a liking to it.

---

