---
title: "v. 11.04 netbook -- desktop display issue"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by steveontario on 2011-05-01
I upgraded to v. 11.04 on my netbook. Now that I have burned my bridges (i.e. removed obsolete files), I am faced with a desktop that displays no menus -- neither the familiar Gnome one nor Unity.

Has anybody else had this problem? What can I do?

Thanks,

Steve

---

### Post by Sun_Coaster on 2011-05-01
Install Gnome 3,
or XFCE on xubuntu ?

---

### Post by steveontario on 2011-05-01
Sun, thanks. The problem is, I have no access (that I can see) to any menus. When I bang the cursor against the left side of the pane (which in a perfect world would bring up the Unity menu), nothing appears. There are no menu choices on the top. It's just a desktop.

---

### Post by conjob on 2011-05-02
I'm having the same problem on my Asus EEE PC. Keyboard shortcuts (such as adjusting volume/brightness) work, and files appear to be on my hard drive, etc. But there are no menus, no icons, no nothing on the desktop.

---

### Post by conjob on 2011-05-02
I'm a relative beginner when it comes to this stuff, but I am trying the following. (I'm using a really slow internet connection in Nepal, so I won't know if this works for a few more hours).

Open the terminal with ctrl+alt+T
Then follow the instructions here: [http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-GNOME-3-on-Ubuntu-11-04-194085.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-GNOME-3-on-Ubuntu-11-04-194085.shtml)

Or, just type this in the terminal:
[COLOR=#008080][I]sudo add-apt-repository ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3
[/I][/COLOR][COLOR=#008080][I]gksu apt-get update
[/I][/COLOR][COLOR=#008080]*sudo apt-get dist-upgrade*[/COLOR]

---

