---
title: ".bashrc mistyped HELPP"
date: 2006-03-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ozkan on 2006-03-22
please help !!

when i was root i write something wrong in .bashrc now "sudo su " does'nt work ](*,) 
HELP MEEEEEE

---

### Post by halitech on 2006-03-22
Don't really have any ideas on fixing it, new to linux myself but might help if you post what you think you typed wrong so someone can help  you fix it.

[QUOTE=ozkan]please help !!

when i was root i write something wrong in .bashrc now "sudo su " does'nt work ](*,) 
HELP MEEEEEE[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by engla on 2006-03-22
you can edit it and fix it. 
I suggest:
gksudo gedit /root/.bashrc

hopefully you will see what's wrong and be able to fix it. Then save and close.

edit: dumb typo, sorry

---

### Post by ozkan on 2006-03-22
gtksudo command not found :((((

---

### Post by Zeroangel on 2006-03-22
[quote=ozkan]gtksudo command not found :(((([/quote]
It's gksudo without the 't'

---

### Post by ozkan on 2006-03-22
authentication rejected it cannot open it, it opens an empty file

---

### Post by ozkan on 2006-03-22
even i write the bashrc  with command gksudo gedit it cannot save

---

### Post by engla on 2006-03-22
Are the contents important?

back up the file
sudo cp /root/.bashrc ~/root-bashrc.bak
then remove it
sudo rm /root/.bashrc

Now try. Recreate the file later, and add stuff you want again

---

### Post by Zeroangel on 2006-03-22
Authentication rejected message should cause no problems and the file will open as normal and be editable (however if you just don't like that message use sudo instead of gksudo)

Your /root/.bashrc file being empty is a problem. It should not be empty, it should be filled with text. Maybe someone who is running breezy can paste their .bashrc file for you to copy.

---

### Post by ozkan on 2006-03-22
yeeeeeeeeeeeeeeehhhh oh yeeee 

thank you all a lot 
i used sudo directly after removed, not used gksudo as it cannot save 
thank you again

---

### Post by Zeroangel on 2006-03-22
Glad to hear ya got it working.

---

