---
title: "X Server Problem &quot;Failed to start...&quot;"
date: 2007-09-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brn on 2007-09-28
Ubuntu 7.04 - Everything fine until today when this message appeared at startup. 
>  Failed to start the X server (your graphical interface).  It is likely that it is not set up correctly.  
The report it delivered went way over my head but seems to suggest there is a problem with the display.  In part it says this (From my famously sloppy handwritten notes.   Sorry.)
> (...Lots of  system information...)
                          .
                          .
(II)  VESA(0):  Not using built-in mode "1024x768" (no mode of this name)
(II)  VESA(0):  Not using built-in mode "800x600" (no mode of this name)
(II)  VESA(0):  Not using built-in mode "640x480" (no mode of this name)
(WW)  VESA(0):  No valid mode left.  Trying less strict filter.
 
Backtrace
0:  ...{irrelevant?}
1:  ...{same?}
              .
              .
5:  /usr/bin/X(FontFileCompleteXLFD+0xIEI) [0x8073ab1]


Fatal Server Error:
Caught signal 11.  Server aborting
Searching this forum I found and tried several suggestions.  The most hopeful-looking was (as root):
```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
This produced a menu of X server options which I tried to complete as best I could, then:
```
/etc/init.d/gdm start
```
But the problem remains.

I desperately hope I won't have to re-install the entire system.  Can anyone suggest a way to re-install only the X server components which had worked so flawlessly "out of the box"? 

My thanks.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-09-29
Try :```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

The -phigh flag, or option, selects defaults for everything except resolution. To select a resolution , scroll up and down with arrow keys and use the space bar to select/deselect various resolutions.

If that fails we need to know your videocard and monitor as well a a copy of /etc/xorg.conf

---

### Post by brn on 2007-09-29
**bodhi.zazen** suggested

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Thanks.

I Tried it.  Still the same result.  The machine is a Compaq Presario C502US laptop, purchased in May.  I cannot identify the monitor by name.  Ideal geometry is 1024x768 but others (even 1280x1024) have been tried too.  I assume "generic VESA" should be OK.  All internal hardware appears to be "Pure Intel", except for a *Broadcom* wireless board. 

Here is the current xorg.conf file.  I can see nothing obviously amiss.
> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"	
Driver		"wacom"
Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"intel"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"intel"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

The xorg.conf man page lists several alternative places it might be found, but not on this machine.  I see that the system has kept 'backups' for the last several times I have gone through the _dpkg-reconfigure_ procedure but these are of no help.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-09-29
I found this link 

[http://ogolberg.googlepages.com/c502us.html](http://ogolberg.googlepages.com/c502us.html)

Which advises to install 915resolution

```
sudo apt-get install 915resolution
```

---

### Post by brn on 2007-09-30
**[SIZE="4"][CENTER]---BINGO!---[/CENTER][/SIZE]**

915resolution did the trick, Gnome is back and running at 1280x800.  Previously System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution offered several choices of which 1024x780 was the best fit.  Now 1280x800 is the only option presented.  Fonts are slightly smaller but I can easily live with that.  I'm still puzzled by what caused this fault after months of clean operation.  Perhaps I'll never know.  .

Let me know what you drink and I'll send a case.  :)

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-09-30
> **brn said:**
> **[SIZE="4"][CENTER]---BINGO!---[/CENTER][/SIZE]**

915resolution did the trick, Gnome is back and running at 1280x800.  Previously System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution offered several choices of which 1024x780 was the best fit.  Now 1280x800 is the only option presented.  Fonts are slightly smaller but I can easily live with that.  I'm still puzzled by what caused this fault after months of clean operation.  Perhaps I'll never know.  

You should be able to configure your resolution. See this link :

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto)

You will have to scroll down a little..

> Let me know what you drink and I'll send a case.  :)

LOL, you are most welcome.

---

### Post by brn on 2007-10-03
With the new 1280x800 screen resolution, everything worked except _Google Earth_ which crashed all the way back to the login screen.  Browsing the forums, I see that others (with different computers/configurations) have this  problem too. Looking at my /etc/X11/xorg.conf I noticed this:
> Section "Device"
Identifier "intel"
Driver [COLOR="Red"]"vesa"[/COLOR]
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection   
On a hunch I changed the Driver entry  to[COLOR="Red"] "intel"[/COLOR] and restarted.  It worked.  Google Earth no longer crashes and the original set of options for _Screen Resolution_ is again in place, along with the new (nice) 1280x800 geometry supplied by 915resolution.

---

