---
title: "10.10 firefox wont start (already running etc..."
date: 2010-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jovo2 on 2010-11-30
Hi everyone...

Just made a fresh install of 10.10 on my laptop, after a few hours firefox would no longer start. If I click the icon again the familiar "firefox is already running etc error" appears. Killing firefox and firefox-bin does nothing, they just start up again next time i click the icon, but firefox does not.

I tried uninstalling and reinstalling, both via the gui and terminal to no avail. 

What to do?

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-30
Try killing Firefox using this command from the terminal.

```
ps axjf | grep firefox
```

And then try opening it again.

Does the problem go away on reboot?

---

### Post by Jovo2 on 2010-11-30
> **sikander3786 said:**
> Try killing Firefox using this command from the terminal.

```
ps axjf | grep firefox
```

And then try opening it again.

Does the problem go away on reboot?

No, the problem persists after rebooting. And the command u gave me did not do anything :/ .

I also tried safe-mode with the same results. And installed firefox 4 beta, it acted the exact same way. 

Thanks for the reply anyways.

Edit: more stuff that didnt work;deleting prefs.js, running firefox with a different profile, rm -r ~/.mozilla/firefox

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-30
Delete the lock file.

Go to your Home directory, press Ctrl + H to see hidden files. Navigate to .mozilla > Firefox > [Profile Name] > find and delete the file named lock.

Try again.

---

### Post by Jovo2 on 2010-11-30
First of all, thanks for the help.

I have no idea what happened, but now firefox starts up, but isnt called firefox but namaroka, which i guess is the release name for 3.whatever. Also, removing the firefox folder (forcing ubuntu to download fresh files) and then installing firefox twice (first install did nothing) was the solution. 

Im not happy with the solution, but Ill mark the thread as solved.

Also, 10.04, here I come!

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-30
You are Welcome :P

Namaroka is the code name for Beta 4 :-)

If you just deleted the firefox folder from /home, that is not a bad solution either. That would have just got rid of your personal settings/bookmarks and no problem if you didn't need them or had them backed up already.

You can happily mark the thread solved.

Happy Ubuntu-ing!

---

