---
title: "10.04 to 10.10 upgrade"
date: 2010-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brodeur235 on 2010-10-25
I recently upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10 and in short, in my experience, it's terrible. All it did was bug my machine. When I enter the wrong credentials on login, it spins forever "checking" so I have to restart the computer. When I enter any credentials to unlock my computer after a lock screen (even if they are perfectly correct) it spins forever "checking." So I disabled the lock screen on sleep feature, which I hate having to do because I live on a college campus where anyone could pick up the computer and look at my notes without a password, but I have no alternative. Also the fingerprint scnaner on my lenovo worked perfectly before the upgrade and now it doesn't, it's apparent that it is very messed up, lighting up sometimes, and mostly not when it should. Additionally, I can't update my computer or download anything from the software center because it believes my root password to be incorrect. no matter what. This is the most frustrating thing I have ever encountered in day to day ubuntu use and I might just switch OS's because this is just counterproductive and a waste of time.

Is there a fix for this? If not, forget ubuntu, I'm going to something else.

Broduer235

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-10-25
If 10.04 was working perfectly for you, there was no real need of upgrading the system to Maverick. 10.04 = LTS so supported for 3 years at least. Was there any specific reason?

I know the new versions "should" work and should be better than the previous ones. But no OS, no version is perfect. There are glitches everywhere. If you decide to upgrade to a newer version, it is advised to try it via a Live CD, check if all the hardware is supported and then upgrade. Thats the biggest benefit of Live CD I ever gained.

As far as fixes are concerned, bugs are treated in order of importance. If you have some with your hardware, you can help the other users by posting them at launchpad so the developers actually know that they exist and fix them. Everyone needs to participate to make a license free OS the best one, including You.

Regarding OS, well it is always your choice. No real need to stick to the one that doesn't satisfy. You can always downgrade to a working version or even switch to another OS. Entirely your own choice. Choose the one that works for you.

---

### Post by muteXe on 2010-10-25
I couldn't agree with sikander3786 more.  Every 6 months i get sick of posting to threads saying "why did you upgrade if you were happy with your current system?".
You've learnt a valuable lesson - if it's not broke, don't try and fix it.

---

### Post by akand074 on 2010-10-25
I always see all over the place about people having problems after upgrades. I've never once had a problem for anything. One upgrade though I noticed my performance started to decrease, firefox running pretty weird, but after about a week everything was back to normal without me doing anything (must have been updates).

Anyways that's besides the point, I don't ever do upgrades anymore. Just do a clean install of 10.10, upgrading still keeps some things from older versions and they could sometimes clash and you'll have to set things up again any ways. My suggestions are; 1) Don't upgrade right away if you want stability (especially if its for school), 2) If you must have the new version, do a clean install.

---

### Post by zane131 on 2010-10-29
> **brodeur235 said:**
> I recently upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10 and in short, in my experience, it's terrible. All it did was bug my machine. When I enter the wrong credentials on login, it spins forever "checking" so I have to restart the computer. When I enter any credentials to unlock my computer after a lock screen (even if they are perfectly correct) it spins forever "checking." So I disabled the lock screen on sleep feature, which I hate having to do because I live on a college campus where anyone could pick up the computer and look at my notes without a password, but I have no alternative. Also the fingerprint scnaner on my lenovo worked perfectly before the upgrade and now it doesn't, it's apparent that it is very messed up, lighting up sometimes, and mostly not when it should. Additionally, I can't update my computer or download anything from the software center because it believes my root password to be incorrect. no matter what. This is the most frustrating thing I have ever encountered in day to day ubuntu use and I might just switch OS's because this is just counterproductive and a waste of time.

Is there a fix for this? If not, forget ubuntu, I'm going to something else.

Broduer235
Do a quick check on what groups you are in. I had the same problem and it looks like I got pulled out of all groups including admin and mythtv.

---

