---
title: "8.04 won't boot or upgrade to 9.10"
date: 2009-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-02
SO my girlfriend has an HP machine with Vista and Ubuntu 8.04 on it which won't boot and I'm trying to pull off all her pictures etc for her. So I've played around with Ubuntu once or twice but many moons ago I worked with Unix on H so I know enough to cause catastrophic failure :-)

but with that said....

Ubuntu will not boot...

If I boot it normally I get a message inside a box saying VGA Mode not supported and the whole system just locks up

if I try to boot in recovery mode I get a bunch of stuff but then ends with...

Kernel panic - not syncing: attempted to kill init

and hangs.

If I boot from Vista I can't see the Ubuntu partition of the disk.

If I make a 9.1 disk and boot from there I can see both the Vista and the Ubuntu partitions but I don't find a Home folder so I have no idea where to find the data to back up...

If I try to install 9.1 will it blow away her data or will it just upgrade the OS fro 8 to 9.10 and leave the data alone....

though I would still like to back it up before I do anything just in case...

Thanks
John

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-12-02
That's weird. You mount the 8.04 partition and can't find the home folder from the Live CD? 

Yes if you install a fresh copy it will overwrite everything on that partition.

---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-02
ok so then I need to figure out how to fix the 8.04 version or backup the data.

If I boot from the cd drive I see the partition with Ubuntu on it should the user data be under \Home or is it buried somewhere whithin another folder???

---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-03
so should the home folder be visible at the root level of the partition and I don't mean the unix \root folder I mean the base level???

and if it's not there if I pull the HD out of the pc and put it in a usb enclosure would I have access to the users folders???

the reason I haven't done this yet is that for some reason they opted to busy the HD in this pc and did't want to go through the issue if it wasn't going to work anyways...

thanks
John

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2009-12-03
Booting from a live CD is the best you can do. It will provide read access to the hard drive, so you will not make more damage here. 

Yes, /home is in the root of the file structure. There could be hidden files in /home/<username> that you want to copy, for example browser bookmarks.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2009-12-03
- and by the way: In Linux the slash / is used. Backslash \ is an alien from an inferior operative system.

---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-04
ha yes I was second guessing myself on the / versus \

so if I boot from the 9.1 cd and I see the 2 partitions 1 for Vista with all the folders an 1 for Ubuntu with all the folders BUT there is no /home folder what should I do????

where else would I find the /home folder if it's not at the root level of the partition for ubuntu???

confused

---

### Post by alienclone on 2009-12-04
when you look in the Ubuntu partition, what folders do you see?

do you see bin, boot, dev, etc, lib... and all that stuff?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2009-12-06
Remember, there are now three file systems in play: One Windows and two Ubuntu. If you don't find the expected <username> in /home, you might be looking in the wrong Ubuntu.

---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-06
ok so when I boot from the 9.1 disk on my ubunto desktop I have the
following icons:
exampls
Install ubunto 9.1
280 gb file system
210 gb fielsystem

if I click on one of the file systems I get a gui screen with:
 ubuntu which is desktop pictures etc
File system which seems to be the 9.10 cd
Network
210 GB Filesystem which is the Vista partition
280 GB File system which seems to be the ubuntu partition

but again no home folder on anyone of these except for the one called
Filesystem which is the CD

if I right click on the 280 GB filesystem I have an option to unmount
it so it seems that it's already mounted... right??

but anyways someone else suggested I need to mount the HD but on the 280 gb filesystem/dev has 98 items in it how do I
know what the drive in... there is a folder called fd as well as a
bunch of tems with 0 bytes with the following that are greater than 0
bytes:
Core
stderr
stdout


I'm pretty sure core may tell me the exact issue but not sure if there
is an easy way to pull it up and look at it for it to make sense to
me.

thanks again for any assistance...
[COLOR=#888888]John[/COLOR]

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2009-12-07
If you can see the files on a partition it means that it is mounted. We want to keep it like this. 

If you open the file manager (Nautilus), then you should be able to see the 280 GB drive in the window to the left. What happens when you try to open it - can you then navigate to /home? 

If you go all the way to the root level, which directories do you see?

---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-14
so no ideas??? am I screwed ???

---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-14
sorry disregard... refresh didn't show new replies.

---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-14
> **mörgæs said:**
> If you can see the files on a partition it means that it is mounted. We want to keep it like this. 

If you open the file manager (Nautilus), then you should be able to see the 280 GB drive in the window to the left. What happens when you try to open it - can you then navigate to /home? 

If you go all the way to the root level, which directories do you see?

that's the issue... when I click on the 280 GB Filesystem on the left I see
Bib
Boot
cdrom
dev

etc etc etc

but there is no home

---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-17
> **weid said:**
> that's the issue... when I click on the 280 GB Filesystem on the left I see
Bib
Boot
cdrom
dev

etc etc etc

but there is no home

I meant Lib not Bib :-)

---

### Post by weid on 2009-12-21
ok so it doesn't look like this is going anywhere... so I guess I'll just reinstall it and tell her everything is gone :-(

---

