---
title: "10.04 black screen after timeout"
date: 2014-07-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Linda_Hargrove on 2014-07-09
This is an IBM MetVision running v. 10.04 Ubuntu. I let it go idle while it was playing iTunes and when I tried waking it up by moving the mouse the minitor never woke back up. I could hear the music but the screen remained black. 

I did a hard reboot but it never fully reboots. I see 'No signal' flash across the screen then it goes back to black. The fan runs but I think something is still in sleep mode. I can get to the system settings by pressing the F1 key but I don't know enough about Ubuntu to figure out what to change. 

Any ideas?

---

### Post by hbutt875 on 2014-07-09
Ubuntu 10.04 is unsupported please install ubuntu 12.04 LTS or 14.04 LTS to get support best of luck.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-07-09
Ubuntu 10.04 LTS desktop has passed end of life and there are no updates, not even security updates for the desktop environment. Please boot from a current desktop install drive (try for example Xubuntu 12.04 LTS, Lubuntu 14.04 LTS or Xubuntu 14.04 LTS), and ***backup your personal files***. Then install a current version.

See this link
[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2229730"]
Forums Staff recommendations on EOL Ubuntu releases, in particular 10.04 desktop.[/URL]

-o-

We are prepared to start helping you, if you need help installing a new version into your computer or backing up your personal files.

---

### Post by Linda_Hargrove on 2014-07-09
How do I install a new version if I can't get a prompt? Got any tips/tricks you can share with a newbie?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-07-09
Installing a new version would require booting up a live CD and that might require getting into the BIOS to change the boot order. You mention F1 and system settings. Is that the key for the BIOS in your machine? If it is, then that is nothing to do with Ubuntu. Perhaps you could give us a little more detail about your machine and someone could help you work out how to get into the BIOS. "IBM MetVision"? I couldn't find anything by googling. Did you get that right?

And if you decide to re-install, you might also need to rescue personal data which would also require booting from a live CD. Which brings us back to the BIOS again. Let us know as much as you can about the machine and what you would like to do and hopefully someone can help you.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2014-07-09
I agree with sudodus. If the current install is broken, your best bet is to reinstall over it. I wouldn't know how to fix your black screen anyway, so reinstall is the inly help I can offer.

I suggest that you get an ISO of the latest Ubuntu - 14.04 and make a boot DVD or memory stick from that. If you have a fairly old PC, you may be better off choosing Xubuntu (my favourite) or Lubuntu instead as they are less demanding of hardware. Since your current PC is broken, I guess you will have to use a different computer to make the installer disc/stick. Then when you boot the installer, don't install straight away but choose to try out first. Then you will be able to gain access to the existing disk and copy all the important files to an external drive or stick. Once you have a copy of your files you can go ahead and install the new version. I don't recommend trying to upgrade because there have been far too many changes and I think lots of stuff would not work afterwards.

After the install is finished, you should be able to copy all your files back from the external drive again.

Good luck.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-07-09
I'll be happy to help you backup your personal files and install  a current version and flavour of Ubuntu. What computer is it? I know  IBM Netvista, but not  MetVision? If it is Netvista, you'll need Lubuntu  with a light desktop environment, so try Lubuntu 14.04 LTS and probably  you should tweak the graphics and use UXA acceleration according to  this link
[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2130640"]
Old hardware brought back to life[/URL]

So let us help you select a suitable version and flavour of Ubuntu (or some other light-weight distro if necessary), and help you try it before installing. See also these links

[Try Ubuntu (Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Xubuntu, ...) before installing it]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2230389")

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick)

---

### Post by hbutt875 on 2014-07-09
You can upgrade your Computer to 12.04 LTS just go to update manager and click upgrade button on the top.If your option is to upgrade so you won't need to backup your files.Upgrade speed depends on the speed of your internet connection and computer.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-07-09
> **hbutt875 said:**
> You can upgrade your Computer to 12.04 LTS just  go to update manager and click upgrade button on the top.If your option  is to upgrade so you won't need to backup your files.Upgrade speed  depends on the speed of your internet connection and computer.
Kind of hard to do that when you can't see the screen.

> **Linda_Hargrove said:**
> How do I install a new version if I can't get a prompt? Got any tips/tricks you can share with a newbie?

When you boot up, can you get to the boot manager screen, grub?
(Usually you press, or click the shift key right after the bios screen disappears on boot-up.)
If you can get to the grub screen, you should see an option for recovery mode.

I don't know what to do beyond that though, but if you can access that, it would be a start.
Hard resets tend to cause problems, and even more so on unsupported systems/desktops.

Hopefully others will chime in with which option would work best.

---

