---
title: "5.04 -&gt; 5.10 == 360 MB of disk space more?"
date: 2005-11-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by qrto on 2005-11-29
When i tried dist-upgrade from 5.04 to 5.10, apt said it'll use 360 MB of disk space, the question is why ? Anyone ?

---

### Post by SGC on 2005-11-29
Its the normal size, you can cut about 100 mb if  you don't download/upgrade openoffice.

Instead of using apt-get dist-upgrade, use synaptic to select which package you want to update and which you don't.

After the upgrade complete, use **apt-get clean** to remove the downloaded files which will save you a large amount of the disk space.

---

### Post by qrto on 2005-11-29
Ok, i assume it's "normal" but where does that additional 360 MB come from ? It's hard to belive that _every_ upgrade takes more space.

---

### Post by earobinson on 2005-11-29
dling packages mostly i would guess

---

### Post by SGC on 2005-11-29
I notice apt-get when upgrading to a new linux kernel (which happens when you upgrade from 5.04 to 5.10) doesn't remove the old kernel, so here is an extra 55 mb. 

dist-upgrade also install new packages which may require some of this additional disk space.

---

### Post by martamius on 2005-11-29
in todays world where every computer comes with at least a 80GB hard drive, what significance is 360MB for a distribution upgrade? 
Please also realize that when you upgrade a package, apt downloads the complete new package, and erases the old one. Im not sure if apt actually calculates the difference between the old package and the new package when it reports the disk space. I think it's probably just telling you haw big the new packages are. So really, 360MB of data to bring all your apps up to date really isn't that much.
Also, Ubuntu is a distro, not just an OS. Upgrading all your apps, and os for only 360MB sounds pretty good to me. Anybody know the diffrence in size of  Windows XP to Vista (which are just Operating systems)?

---

### Post by loupy on 2005-11-29
Try an apt-get clean to remove all the downloaded packages that are cached.

*[QUOTE=martamius] Anybody know the diffrence in size of  Windows XP to Vista (which are just Operating systems)?[/QUOTE]*

Good point - I don't know the difference in space but I do know the vista betas are all DVD iso at around 2.6GB - so I it has to be massive.  Not to mention the XP Service packs (patches NOT upgrades) which are sometimes 500MB in size.

---

### Post by qrto on 2005-11-29
ok, thanx for your replies, maybe apt indeed does not count things properly.

---

