---
title: "11.10 stops booting at &quot;Checking battery state ... [OK]&quot;"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-14
Hi,
Whenever I try to start my computer from kernel version 3 (it boots fine  with 2.6) Kubuntu stops booting altogether at ```
Checking battery  state ... [OK]
``` And I can still get to tty{x}.
Thanks, any suggestions are welcome :smile:
 - search

[SIZE=3][COLOR=DarkOliveGreen][B]EDIT:
Here is the list of solutions people have found  for this problem:[/B][/COLOR][/SIZE] (BTW  you can get to a command prompt by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F1, no need to call  Geeksquad)

[LIST=1]
[*]Posted by me: I had to reinstall my graphics drivers. I just downloaded them from [Nvidia]("http://nvidia.com/").
[*]Posted by [kinka-dzs]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=437148"):  This person just reinstalled the graphics drivers for his GPU using  APT. GPU's vary from computer to computer, so you'll have to find out  which driver version you need, but their was version 173:```
**sudo apt-get install --reinstall nvidia-173**
```and reboot.
[*]Posted by [cidthecoatrack]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1314702"): they had to reinstall not only their graphics drivers but also nvidia-current, because they owned a 64-bit machine.
[*]Posted by [gbringer]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1471479"): This person had a Radeon graphics chip. They had a seperate issue with downloading graphics drivers to a USB stick but they figured that out.
[*]Posted by [jhgouveia]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1421454"): This person installed graphics drivers for his SIS Mirange GPU. They had to uninstall them from TTY1 to get their computer to work.
[*]Posted by [ponsfrilus]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=110669"): They had to remove their /etc/xorg.conf file.
[*]Posted by [tigeronk2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1476008"): They had to delete unnecessary files because they were getting this error message from not having enough disk space available.
[*]Posted by [ArnaudVR]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1566243"): ArnaudVR was using GDM instead of GDM3. They had to run the command ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm
```select GDM as their default display manager and reboot.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-14
SOLVED. Reinstalled graphics drivers.

---

### Post by kinka-dzs on 2011-10-14
sorry, could you tell us why? i am trying to reinstall the nvidia drivers, but don't really know how....

---

### Post by danevans10 on 2011-10-14
having the same problem, trying this now...

[http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-install-nvidia-graphics-driver-in-ubuntu-10-10-maverick-meerkat](http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-install-nvidia-graphics-driver-in-ubuntu-10-10-maverick-meerkat)

---

### Post by kinka-dzs on 2011-10-14
ok got it.

so first step is to jump into a console, ctrl + alt + 1 or whatever

first i tried to run startx and was telling me that there is no nvidia driver so i tried to use the current:

[B]sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo nvidia-xconfig[/B]

tried to reboot, no luck still the same message

so i tried again and i see that is still looking for the nvidia-173 module... why??? anyway so i reinstalled it

[B]sudo apt-get install --reinstall nvidia-173


and startx
magically everything worked.[/B]

:)

now tring to get the restricted drivers to work and start compiz. Hope it can help.
Btw, can someone tell me how do i configure grub to give me some option before booting? I tried to comment the line /etc/default/grub GRUB_HIDDDEN_TIMEOUT=0 and to set it to 10 but still don't see any grub menu when i start. Thank you...

---

### Post by kinka-dzs on 2011-10-14
cool, everything works fine now, only one doubt, which driver should i use now? 

see screenshot

---

### Post by cidthecoatrack on 2011-10-15
Could you explain how to boot into that command prompt?  I figure I have to reinstall the nvidia drivers, but it won't boot past that "Checking battery state" message, so I can't get to the desktop by just letting it attempt nto boot, and the screen where it does that doesn't respond to commands (so it's apparently not a command window).  How exactly do I get xubuntu to get into the command prompt before trying to load the graphics drivers?

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-15
You can get to a command line by pressing Ctrl, Alt, and F1 all at the same time. The reason this is happening is because the nvidia drivers only are configured to work with previous kernels and you have to reinstall them.

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-15
> **kinka-dzs said:**
> cool, everything works fine now, only one doubt, which driver should i use now? 

see screenshot
If I were you, I would install the second one.

---

### Post by cidthecoatrack on 2011-10-15
> **searchfgold6789 said:**
> You can get to a command line by pressing Ctrl, Alt, and F1 all at the same time. The reason this is happening is because the nvidia drivers only are configured to work with previous kernels and you have to reinstall them.
Thanks, searchfgold6789 - that got everything on the right track. ^_^

---

### Post by cidthecoatrack on 2011-10-15
> **cidthecoatrack said:**
> Thanks, searchfgold6789 - that got everything on the right track. ^_^
Just as a heads up to everyone, I did all the steps listed, and it still wasn't working.  I decided to just outright reinstall nvidia-current--and thus I think I discovered an issue.  Indoing so, it mentioned it was replacing nvidia-current 280.13-0ubuntu6 with nvidia-current 280.13-0ubuntu6_amd64.  So, if you're running a 64-bit machine, try reinstalling the nvidia-current as well, as that might shift things from 32-bit.

---

### Post by Nubuntoo on 2011-10-15
Hello
After the dreaded "checking battery state ok" message, I try hitting ctrl+alt+f1, but nothing happens except that it says "[^P" and drops to the next line

---

### Post by Nubuntoo on 2011-10-15
> **Nubuntoo said:**
> Hello
After the dreaded "checking battery state ok" message, I try hitting ctrl+alt+f1, but nothing happens except that it says "[^P" and drops to the next line
 Nevermind called geeksquad and fixed it

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-16
> **Nubuntoo said:**
> Nevermind called geeksquad and fixed it
Out of curiosity... 
Geeksquad does Linux?!?!??!


...



?!?!?!?!

---

### Post by gbringer on 2011-10-16
Hi, 
I am experiencing this same issue.  I am installing ubuntu 11.10 freshly on a new computer that already has windows 7.  I have an install cd, and I had to use the work-around posted here:
[http://journalxtra.com/2010/07/ubuntu-fixing-the-blank-screen-on-installation-bug/](http://journalxtra.com/2010/07/ubuntu-fixing-the-blank-screen-on-installation-bug/)
to even get the OS installed.  But I have not been able to get it to boot all the way, because it gets stuck on the "Checking Battery State."  I am cheered by the fact that other people have worked on getting their video card drivers updated, however I do not have an Nvidea card, and can't figure out what command line should work my getting my driver updated.  I have a Radeon HD 6250G (I believe), which is an ATI card.  

I tried following the advice posted here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)
and I downloaded what I believe is the correct driver onto usb, but when I plug the USB into my computer (once I do the alt+ctrl+F1 to get to a terminal), I get these 6 lines:
[  730.938736] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] No Caching mode page present
[  730.938841] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
[  730.943171] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] No Caching mode page present
[  730.943272] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
[  730.974737] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] No Caching mode page present
[  730.974841] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through

There is nothing in my /media, so I'm assuming it didn't mount.
So I tried to manually mount it using:

mount -t vfat /dev/sdb /media/external 
This produces the error:

[ 1342.831043] FAT-fs (sdb): invalid media value (0xb9)
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sdb,
missing codepage or helper program or other error
In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
dmesg | tail  or so


I've looked for this error and don't know how to fix it.  I did a "dmesg | tail
and the output was as follows:
[ 1494.300317] usb 5-1: USB disconnect, device number 16
[ 1494.564234] usb 5-1: new full speed USB device number 17 using ohci_hcd
[ 1494.756613] usb 5-1: USB disconnect, device number 17
[ 1494.392230] usb 5-1: new full speed USB device number 18 using ohci_hcd
[ 1494.584535] usb 5-1: USB disconnect, device number 18
 [ 1494.980216] usb 5-1: new full speed USB device number 19 using ohci_hcd
[ 1494.172558] usb 5-1: USB disconnect, device number 19
 [ 1494.8082.1] usb 5-1: new full speed USB device number 20 using ohci_hcd
[ 1494.000567] usb 5-1: USB disconnect, device number 20
 [ 1494.432235] usb 5-1: new full speed USB device number 21 using ohci_hcd


If anyone could help me with this problem, or any part of any of my problems, I would be so grateful.  I have been working on this for 2 days - searching the internet for help, installing trying things, re-installing, making some progress, regressing, moving forward inch by inch.  Please help!  
Thanks

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2011-10-16
Make sure /media/external exists
```
ls -la /media/external
```

If not, create it.
```
sudo mkdir /media/external
```

Try sdb1 instead of sdb
```
sudo mount -t vfat /dev/sdb1 /media/external 
```

--
Effenberg

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2011-10-16
> **kinka-dzs said:**
> ok got it.

so first step is to jump into a console, ctrl + alt + 1 or whatever

first i tried to run startx and was telling me that there is no nvidia driver so i tried to use the current:

[B]sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo nvidia-xconfig[/B]

tried to reboot, no luck still the same message

so i tried again and i see that is still looking for the nvidia-173 module... why??? anyway so i reinstalled it

[B]sudo apt-get install --reinstall nvidia-173


and startx
magically everything worked.[/B]

:)

now tring to get the restricted drivers to work and start compiz. Hope it can help.
Btw, can someone tell me how do i configure grub to give me some option before booting? I tried to comment the line /etc/default/grub GRUB_HIDDDEN_TIMEOUT=0 and to set it to 10 but still don't see any grub menu when i start. Thank you...

Been banging my head on this all day...finally found this and bam worked for me too! 

I really am thinking I should have stuck with 10.10...my upgrade failed from 10.10 to 11.04, so this is a fresh install :(

---

### Post by gbringer on 2011-10-16
[effenberg]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=260143"),

You positively rule!  I'm not sure why I didn't try that before. Every time I saw sdb1 in the example, I just thought my file system must have been set-up differently.  Anyway, that worked, and then I was able to follow the rest of the steps to finally get booted.  I am now typing to you from a completed install of ubuntu 11.10!  Thanks so much!  And to those of you still struggling with getting things to work - take heart!  Dreams can come true!

And if you are having this problem but have a different driver than nvidea, just follow the steps I posted above.

---

### Post by plantman on 2011-10-17
I am a total newbie and I followed all the instructions here but no success yet. I really want to solve this but if I can't I want to try to save my home directory files to a cd-r or usb stick. I can get to terminal but I am not sure of the exact commands to use. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by kinka-dzs on 2011-10-18
I am glad I actually helped someone, but can anybody help me with this? still don't know why is not coming up grub...

**Btw, can someone tell me how do i configure grub to give me some option before booting? I tried to comment the line /etc/default/grub GRUB_HIDDDEN_TIMEOUT=0 and to set it to 10 but still don't see any grub menu when i start. Thank you...**

---

### Post by hughes532001 on 2011-10-18
Thank you very much for a simple fix.

Ctrl + Alt + F1
log in as your user name

sudo apt-get install --reinstall nvidia-173

startx

worked first time,  brilliant.

Trevor
:P

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-20
> **kinka-dzs said:**
> 
**Btw, can someone tell me how do i configure grub to give me some option before booting? I tried to comment the line /etc/default/grub GRUB_HIDDDEN_TIMEOUT=0 and to set it to 10 but still don't see any grub menu when i start. Thank you...**
That's a different issue for a different thread, but I can tell you that you can get to a menu by holding down the Shift key at startup. I think.

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-20
> **plantman said:**
> I am a total newbie and I followed all the instructions here but no success yet. I really want to solve this but if I can't I want to try to save my home directory files to a cd-r or usb stick. I can get to terminal but I am not sure of the exact commands to use. Any help would be appreciated.
Once you log in, please type in ```
lspci
```and post the line where it describes the make and model of your Graphics Card.
Or, you can tell the type of computer you have and I can find out for you and give you instructions based on what I and others have posted here.

---

### Post by wasabi7 on 2011-10-22
Hi plantman,

Here's a method which helped me log in. After that, it should be easier to find out the problem.


Press Alt + F5   
Type your username and then, your password
Type "startx"

---

### Post by ioca100 on 2011-10-22
I think to change from lightdm to gdm.

---

### Post by malandro23 on 2011-10-23
This finally worked for me too. Thanks kinka-dzs!

---

### Post by ioca100 on 2011-10-24
I changed from lightdm to gdm so it works fine.
Look at this :  ioca100-M61PME-S2P:~$ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log
[    19.350] 
X.Org X Server 1.10.4
Release Date: 2011-08-19
[    19.350] X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
[    19.350] Build Operating System: Linux 2.6.24-29-server i686 Ubuntu
[    19.350] Current Operating System: Linux ioca100-M61PME-S2P 3.0.0-12-generic #20-Ubuntu SMP Fri Oct 7 14:50:42 UTC 2011 i686
[    19.350] Kernel command line: BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-3.0.0-12-generic root=UUID=ba507dbd-28bd-45ea-b9e3-de915b73fa52 ro vga=773 quiet splash vt.handoff=7
[    19.350] Build Date: 13 October 2011  05:33:17PM
[    19.350] xorg-server 2:1.10.4-1ubuntu4.1 (For technical support please see [http://www.ubuntu.com/support](http://www.ubuntu.com/support)) 
[    19.350] Current version of pixman: 0.22.2
[    19.350]     Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
    to make sure that you have the latest version.
[    19.350] Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
    (++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
    (WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
[    19.350] (==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Mon Oct 24 16:17:58 2011
[    19.350] (==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
[    19.350] (==) Using system config directory "/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d"
[    19.350] (==) No Layout section.  Using the first Screen section.
[    19.351] (==) No screen section available. Using defaults.
[    19.351] (**) |-->Screen "Default Screen Section" (0)
[    19.351] (**) |   |-->Monitor "<default monitor>"
[    19.351] (==) No device specified for screen "Default Screen Section".
    Using the first device section listed.
[    19.351] (**) |   |-->Device "Default Device"
[    19.351] (==) No monitor specified for screen "Default Screen Section".
    Using a default monitor configuration.
[    19.351] (==) Automatically adding devices
[    19.351] (==) Automatically enabling devices
[    19.351] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic" does not exist.
[    19.351]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    19.351] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/" does not exist.
[    19.351]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    19.351] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/" does not exist.
[    19.351]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    19.351] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi" does not exist.
[    19.351]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    19.351] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi" does not exist.
[    19.351]     Entry deleted from font path.
[    19.351] (==) FontPath set to:
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/misc,
    /usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1,
    /var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType,
    built-ins
[    19.351] (==) ModulePath set to "/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules,/usr/lib/xorg/extra-modules,/usr/lib/xorg/modules"
[    19.351] (II) The server relies on udev to provide the list of input devices.
    If no devices become available, reconfigure udev or disable AutoAddDevices.
[    19.351] (II) Loader magic: 0x823ada0
[    19.351] (II) Module ABI versions:
[    19.351]     X.Org ANSI C Emulation: 0.4
[    19.351]     X.Org Video Driver: 10.0
[    19.351]     X.Org XInput driver : 12.3
[    19.351]     X.Org Server Extension : 5.0
[    19.351] (--) PCI:*(0:0:13:0) 10de:03d0:1458:d000 rev 162, Mem @ 0xf8000000/16777216, 0xe0000000/268435456, 0xf9000000/16777216, BIOS @ 0x????????/131072
[    19.351] (II) Open ACPI successful (/var/run/acpid.socket)
[    19.351] (II) LoadModule: "extmod"
[    19.365] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libextmod.so
[    19.365] (II) Module extmod: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.365]     compiled for 1.10.4, module version = 1.0.0
[    19.365]     Module class: X.Org Server Extension
[    19.365]     ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 5.0
[    19.365] (II) Loading extension MIT-SCREEN-SAVER
[    19.365] (II) Loading extension XFree86-VidModeExtension
[    19.365] (II) Loading extension XFree86-DGA
[    19.365] (II) Loading extension DPMS
[    19.365] (II) Loading extension XVideo
[    19.365] (II) Loading extension XVideo-MotionCompensation
[    19.365] (II) Loading extension X-Resource
[    19.365] (II) LoadModule: "dbe"
[    19.365] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libdbe.so
[    19.365] (II) Module dbe: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.365]     compiled for 1.10.4, module version = 1.0.0
[    19.365]     Module class: X.Org Server Extension
[    19.365]     ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 5.0
[    19.365] (II) Loading extension DOUBLE-BUFFER
[    19.365] (II) LoadModule: "glx"
[    19.365] (II) Loading /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules/libglx.so
[    19.379] (II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
[    19.379]     compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
[    19.379]     Module class: X.Org Server Extension
[    19.379] (II) NVIDIA GLX Module  173.14.30  Thu Apr 14 09:20:02 PDT 2011
[    19.379] (II) Loading extension GLX
[    19.379] (II) LoadModule: "record"
[    19.379] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/librecord.so
[    19.379] (II) Module record: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.379]     compiled for 1.10.4, module version = 1.13.0
[    19.379]     Module class: X.Org Server Extension
[    19.379]     ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 5.0
[    19.379] (II) Loading extension RECORD
[    19.379] (II) LoadModule: "dri"
[    19.379] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libdri.so
[    19.379] (II) Module dri: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.379]     compiled for 1.10.4, module version = 1.0.0
[    19.379]     ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 5.0
[    19.379] (II) Loading extension XFree86-DRI
[    19.379] (II) LoadModule: "dri2"
[    19.380] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libdri2.so
[    19.380] (II) Module dri2: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.380]     compiled for 1.10.4, module version = 1.2.0
[    19.380]     ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 5.0
[    19.380] (II) Loading extension DRI2
[    19.380] (==) Matched nvidia as autoconfigured driver 0
[    19.380] (==) Matched nouveau as autoconfigured driver 1
[    19.380] (==) Matched nv as autoconfigured driver 2
[    19.380] (==) Matched vesa as autoconfigured driver 3
[    19.380] (==) Matched fbdev as autoconfigured driver 4
[    19.380] (==) Assigned the driver to the xf86ConfigLayout
[    19.380] (II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
[    19.380] (II) Loading /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules/nvidia_drv.so
[    19.380] (II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
[    19.380]     compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
[    19.380]     Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    19.380] (II) LoadModule: "nouveau"
[    19.380] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/nouveau_drv.so
[    19.381] (II) Module nouveau: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.381]     compiled for 1.10.1, module version = 0.0.16
[    19.381]     Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    19.381]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 10.0
[    19.381] (II) LoadModule: "nv"
[    19.381] (WW) Warning, couldn't open module nv
[    19.381] (II) UnloadModule: "nv"
[    19.381] (II) Unloading nv
[    19.381] (EE) Failed to load module "nv" (module does not exist, 0)
[    19.381] (II) LoadModule: "vesa"
[    19.381] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/vesa_drv.so
[    19.381] (II) Module vesa: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.381]     compiled for 1.10.2, module version = 2.3.0
[    19.381]     Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[    19.381]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 10.0
[    19.381] (II) LoadModule: "fbdev"
[    19.381] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/fbdev_drv.so
[    19.381] (II) Module fbdev: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.381]     compiled for 1.10.0, module version = 0.4.2
[    19.381]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 10.0
[    19.381] (II) NVIDIA dlloader X Driver  173.14.30  Thu Apr 14 08:56:42 PDT 2011
[    19.382] (II) NVIDIA Unified Driver for all Supported NVIDIA GPUs
[    19.382] (II) NOUVEAU driver Date:   Thu Mar 24 02:13:12 2011 +1000
[    19.382] (II) NOUVEAU driver for NVIDIA chipset families :
[    19.382]     RIVA TNT        (NV04)
[    19.382]     RIVA TNT2       (NV05)
[    19.382]     GeForce 256     (NV10)
[    19.382]     GeForce 2       (NV11, NV15)
[    19.382]     GeForce 4MX     (NV17, NV18)
[    19.382]     GeForce 3       (NV20)
[    19.382]     GeForce 4Ti     (NV25, NV28)
[    19.382]     GeForce FX      (NV3x)
[    19.382]     GeForce 6       (NV4x)
[    19.382]     GeForce 7       (G7x)
[    19.382]     GeForce 8       (G8x)
[    19.382]     GeForce GTX 200 (NVA0)
[    19.382]     GeForce GTX 400 (NVC0)
[    19.382] (II) VESA: driver for VESA chipsets: vesa
[    19.382] (II) FBDEV: driver for framebuffer: fbdev
[    19.382] (++) using VT number 7

[    19.382] (II) Loading sub module "fb"
[    19.382] (II) LoadModule: "fb"
[    19.382] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libfb.so
[    19.382] (II) Module fb: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.382]     compiled for 1.10.4, module version = 1.0.0
[    19.382]     ABI class: X.Org ANSI C Emulation, version 0.4
[    19.382] (II) Loading sub module "wfb"
[    19.382] (II) LoadModule: "wfb"
[    19.383] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libwfb.so
[    19.383] (II) Module wfb: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.383]     compiled for 1.10.4, module version = 1.0.0
[    19.383]     ABI class: X.Org ANSI C Emulation, version 0.4
[    19.383] (II) Loading sub module "ramdac"
[    19.383] (II) LoadModule: "ramdac"
[    19.383] (II) Module "ramdac" already built-in
[    19.383] (II) Loading /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules/nvidia_drv.so
[    19.383] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libwfb.so
[    19.383] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libfb.so
[    19.383] (WW) Falling back to old probe method for vesa
[    19.383] (WW) Falling back to old probe method for fbdev
[    19.383] (II) Loading sub module "fbdevhw"
[    19.383] (II) LoadModule: "fbdevhw"
[    19.383] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libfbdevhw.so
[    19.383] (II) Module fbdevhw: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.383]     compiled for 1.10.4, module version = 0.0.2
[    19.383]     ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 10.0
[    19.383] (II) NVIDIA(0): Creating default Display subsection in Screen section
    "Default Screen Section" for depth/fbbpp 24/32
[    19.383] (==) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (==) framebuffer bpp 32
[    19.383] (==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
[    19.383] (==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
[    19.383] (==) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
[    19.383] (**) NVIDIA(0): Option "NoLogo" "True"
[    19.383] (**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
[    19.383] (II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
[    19.383] (II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
[    19.768] (II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA GPU GeForce 6150SE nForce 430 (C61) at PCI:0:13:0
[    19.768] (II) NVIDIA(0):     (GPU-0)
[    19.768] (--) NVIDIA(0): Memory: 262144 kBytes
[    19.768] (--) NVIDIA(0): VideoBIOS: 05.61.32.19.04
[    19.768] (--) NVIDIA(0): Interlaced video modes are supported on this GPU
[    19.768] (--) NVIDIA(0): Connected display device(s) on GeForce 6150SE nForce 430 at
[    19.768] (--) NVIDIA(0):     PCI:0:13:0:
[    19.768] (--) NVIDIA(0):     LG W1752 (CRT-0)
[    19.768] (--) NVIDIA(0): LG W1752 (CRT-0): 350.0 MHz maximum pixel clock
[    19.768] (II) NVIDIA(0): Assigned Display Device: CRT-0
[    19.768] (==) NVIDIA(0): 
[    19.768] (==) NVIDIA(0): No modes were requested; the default mode "nvidia-auto-select"
[    19.768] (==) NVIDIA(0):     will be used as the requested mode.
[    19.768] (==) NVIDIA(0): 
[    19.768] (II) NVIDIA(0): Validated modes:
[    19.768] (II) NVIDIA(0):     "nvidia-auto-select"
[    19.768] (II) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size determined to be 1440 x 900
[    19.769] (--) NVIDIA(0): DPI set to (96, 99); computed from "UseEdidDpi" X config
[    19.769] (--) NVIDIA(0):     option
[    19.769] (==) NVIDIA(0): Enabling 32-bit ARGB GLX visuals.
[    19.769] (II) UnloadModule: "nouveau"
[    19.769] (II) Unloading nouveau
[    19.769] (II) UnloadModule: "vesa"
[    19.769] (II) Unloading vesa
[    19.769] (II) UnloadModule: "fbdev"
[    19.769] (II) Unloading fbdev
[    19.769] (II) UnloadModule: "fbdevhw"
[    19.769] (II) Unloading fbdevhw
[    19.769] (--) Depth 24 pixmap format is 32 bpp
[    19.770] (II) NVIDIA(0): Initialized GPU GART.
[    19.771] (II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode "nvidia-auto-select"
[    19.836] (II) Loading extension NV-GLX
[    19.854] (II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA 3D Acceleration Architecture Initialized
[    19.857] (II) NVIDIA(0): Using the NVIDIA 2D acceleration architecture
[    19.857] (==) NVIDIA(0): Backing store disabled
[    19.857] (==) NVIDIA(0): Silken mouse enabled
[    19.857] (==) NVIDIA(0): DPMS enabled
[    19.857] (II) Loading extension NV-CONTROL
[    19.857] (==) RandR enabled
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension Generic Event Extension
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension SHAPE
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension MIT-SHM
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension XInputExtension
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension XTEST
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension BIG-REQUESTS
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension SYNC
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension XKEYBOARD
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension XC-MISC
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension SECURITY
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension XINERAMA
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension XFIXES
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension RENDER
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension RANDR
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension COMPOSITE
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension DAMAGE
[    19.857] (II) Initializing built-in extension GESTURE
[    19.859] (II) Initializing extension GLX
[    19.877] (II) XKB: reuse xkmfile /var/lib/xkb/server-B20D7FC79C7F597315E3E501AEF10E0D866E8E92.xkm
[    19.883] (II) config/udev: Adding input device Power Button (/dev/input/event1)
[    19.883] (**) Power Button: Applying InputClass "evdev keyboard catchall"
[    19.883] (II) LoadModule: "evdev"
[    19.883] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/evdev_drv.so
[    19.883] (II) Module evdev: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    19.883]     compiled for 1.10.2, module version = 2.6.0
[    19.883]     Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
[    19.883]     ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 12.3
[    19.883] (II) Using input driver 'evdev' for 'Power Button'
[    19.883] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/evdev_drv.so
[    19.883] (**) Power Button: always reports core events
[    19.883] (**) Power Button: Device: "/dev/input/event1"
[    19.884] (--) Power Button: Found keys
[    19.884] (II) Power Button: Configuring as keyboard
[    19.884] (**) Option "config_info" "udev:/sys/devices/LNXSYSTM:00/LNXPWRBN:00/input/input1/event1"
[    19.884] (II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Power Button" (type: KEYBOARD)
[    19.884] (**) Option "xkb_rules" "evdev"
[    19.884] (**) Option "xkb_model" "abnt2"
[    19.884] (**) Option "xkb_layout" "br"
[    19.886] (II) XKB: reuse xkmfile /var/lib/xkb/server-20278E27F1DC9FDDFD591DABFB86C7D7989CFCCF.xkm
[    19.888] (II) config/udev: Adding input device Power Button (/dev/input/event0)
[    19.888] (**) Power Button: Applying InputClass "evdev keyboard catchall"
[    19.888] (II) Using input driver 'evdev' for 'Power Button'
[    19.888] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/evdev_drv.so
[    19.888] (**) Power Button: always reports core events
[    19.888] (**) Power Button: Device: "/dev/input/event0"
[    19.888] (--) Power Button: Found keys
[    19.888] (II) Power Button: Configuring as keyboard
[    19.888] (**) Option "config_info" "udev:/sys/devices/LNXSYSTM:00/device:00/PNP0C0C:00/input/input0/event0"
[    19.888] (II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Power Button" (type: KEYBOARD)
[    19.888] (**) Option "xkb_rules" "evdev"
[    19.888] (**) Option "xkb_model" "abnt2"
[    19.888] (**) Option "xkb_layout" "br"
[    19.889] (II) config/udev: Adding input device Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse (/dev/input/event2)
[    19.889] (**) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: Applying InputClass "evdev pointer catchall"
[    19.889] (II) Using input driver 'evdev' for 'Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse'
[    19.889] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/evdev_drv.so
[    19.889] (**) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: always reports core events
[    19.889] (**) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: Device: "/dev/input/event2"
[    19.889] (--) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: Found 3 mouse buttons
[    19.890] (--) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: Found scroll wheel(s)
[    19.890] (--) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: Found relative axes
[    19.890] (--) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: Found x and y relative axes
[    19.890] (II) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: Configuring as mouse
[    19.890] (II) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: Adding scrollwheel support
[    19.890] (**) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: YAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
[    19.890] (**) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: EmulateWheelButton: 4, EmulateWheelInertia: 10, EmulateWheelTimeout: 200
[    19.890] (**) Option "config_info" "udev:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0/usb2/2-2/2-2:1.0/input/input2/event2"
[    19.890] (II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse" (type: MOUSE)
[    19.890] (II) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: initialized for relative axes.
[    19.890] (**) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: (accel) keeping acceleration scheme 1
[    19.890] (**) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: (accel) acceleration profile 0
[    19.890] (**) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: (accel) acceleration factor: 2.000
[    19.890] (**) Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse: (accel) acceleration threshold: 4
[    19.890] (II) config/udev: Adding input device Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse (/dev/input/mouse0)
[    19.890] (II) No input driver/identifier specified (ignoring)
[    19.890] (II) config/udev: Adding input device HID Keyboard Device (/dev/input/event3)
[    19.890] (**) HID Keyboard Device: Applying InputClass "evdev keyboard catchall"
[    19.890] (II) Using input driver 'evdev' for 'HID Keyboard Device'
[    19.890] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/evdev_drv.so
[    19.890] (**) HID Keyboard Device: always reports core events
[    19.890] (**) HID Keyboard Device: Device: "/dev/input/event3"
[    19.890] (--) HID Keyboard Device: Found keys
[    19.890] (II) HID Keyboard Device: Configuring as keyboard
[    19.890] (**) Option "config_info" "udev:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0/usb2/2-3/2-3:1.0/input/input3/event3"
[    19.890] (II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "HID Keyboard Device" (type: KEYBOARD)
[    19.890] (**) Option "xkb_rules" "evdev"
[    19.890] (**) Option "xkb_model" "abnt2"
[    19.890] (**) Option "xkb_layout" "br"
[    19.891] (II) config/udev: Adding input device HID Keyboard Device (/dev/input/event4)
[    19.891] (**) HID Keyboard Device: Applying InputClass "evdev keyboard catchall"
[    19.891] (II) Using input driver 'evdev' for 'HID Keyboard Device'
[    19.891] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/evdev_drv.so
[    19.891] (**) HID Keyboard Device: always reports core events
[    19.891] (**) HID Keyboard Device: Device: "/dev/input/event4"
[    19.891] (--) HID Keyboard Device: Found 1 mouse buttons
[    19.891] (--) HID Keyboard Device: Found scroll wheel(s)
[    19.891] (--) HID Keyboard Device: Found relative axes
[    19.891] (--) HID Keyboard Device: Found absolute axes
[    19.891] (II) evdev-grail: failed to open grail, no gesture support
[    19.891] (--) HID Keyboard Device: Found keys
[    19.891] (II) HID Keyboard Device: Configuring as mouse
[    19.891] (II) HID Keyboard Device: Configuring as keyboard
[    19.891] (II) HID Keyboard Device: Adding scrollwheel support
[    19.891] (**) HID Keyboard Device: YAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
[    19.891] (**) HID Keyboard Device: EmulateWheelButton: 4, EmulateWheelInertia: 10, EmulateWheelTimeout: 200
[    19.891] (**) Option "config_info" "udev:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0/usb2/2-3/2-3:1.1/input/input4/event4"
[    19.891] (II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "HID Keyboard Device" (type: KEYBOARD)
[    19.891] (**) Option "xkb_rules" "evdev"
[    19.891] (**) Option "xkb_model" "abnt2"
[    19.891] (**) Option "xkb_layout" "br"
[    19.891] (EE) HID Keyboard Device: failed to initialize for relative axes.
[    19.892] (II) HID Keyboard Device: initialized for absolute axes.
[    19.892] (**) HID Keyboard Device: (accel) keeping acceleration scheme 1
[    19.892] (**) HID Keyboard Device: (accel) acceleration profile 0
[    19.892] (**) HID Keyboard Device: (accel) acceleration factor: 2.000
[    19.892] (**) HID Keyboard Device: (accel) acceleration threshold: 4
[    19.892] (II) config/udev: Adding input device Microsoft LifeCam (/dev/input/event5)
[    19.892] (**) Microsoft LifeCam: Applying InputClass "evdev keyboard catchall"
[    19.892] (II) Using input driver 'evdev' for 'Microsoft LifeCam'
[    19.892] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input/evdev_drv.so
[    19.892] (**) Microsoft LifeCam: always reports core events
[    19.892] (**) Microsoft LifeCam: Device: "/dev/input/event5"
[    19.892] (--) Microsoft LifeCam: Found keys
[    19.892] (II) Microsoft LifeCam: Configuring as keyboard
[    19.892] (**) Option "config_info" "udev:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.1/usb1/1-4/1-4:1.0/input/input5/event5"
[    19.892] (II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Microsoft LifeCam" (type: KEYBOARD)
[    19.892] (**) Option "xkb_rules" "evdev"
[    19.892] (**) Option "xkb_model" "abnt2"
[    19.892] (**) Option "xkb_layout" "br"
[    22.084] Warning: Xalloc: requesting unpleasantly large amount of memory: 0 bytes.
[    97.518] Warning: Xalloc: requesting unpleasantly large amount of memory: 0 bytes.
[    98.749] (II) XKB: reuse xkmfile /var/lib/xkb/server-A71D8BC79093CDDD028A0E57EB7187E40E483E7E.x


______________________________________________________________________________________________

 
I don't know about these lines :    19.381] (EE) Failed to load module "nv" (module does not exist, 0)
                                                       19.891] (EE) HID Keyboard Device: failed to initialize for relative axes.

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-25
> **ioca100 said:**
> 
I don't know about these lines :    19.381] (EE) Failed to load module "nv" (module does not exist, 0)
                                                       19.891] (EE) HID Keyboard Device: failed to initialize for relative axes.
Common bug, no worries :D your nVidia driver is probably working fine.

---

### Post by ioca100 on 2011-10-25
> **searchfgold6789 said:**
> Common bug, no worries :D your nVidia driver is probably working fine.

Thank you, I re-installed  nvidia-280, 280 -updates , nvidia-173 , 173-updates , I ran nvidia-280, but there was a bug with the blank page , so I went to 173-updates and now it  works fine.
I hope it goes on all right.

---

### Post by sseremeth on 2011-10-26
+1 This (reinstalling nvidia proprietary driver) fixed me.  Would love to know what happened to kill it in the first place (related to disper). Thank you.

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-26
> **sseremeth said:**
> +1 This (reinstalling nvidia proprietary driver) fixed me.  Would love to know what happened to kill it in the first place (related to disper). Thank you.
It's the kernel update from 2.8 to 3.0. :rolleyes:

---

### Post by ioca100 on 2011-11-03
Here it was wrong again and these solutions don't successfully, so I installed  the gdm session manager .

---

### Post by greenwoodt on 2011-11-15
Installed Edubuntu 11.10 on an Acer Veriton SFF PC. Have resolved the graphics issue as above and got to desktop. But when I try to start Firefox, I cannot connect even though it's the same connection that worked with apt-get ! :confused:

Is there some network connection wizard I can try ?

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-11-15
> Installed Edubuntu 11.10 on an Acer Veriton SFF PC. Have resolved the  graphics issue as above and got to desktop. But when I try to start  Firefox, I cannot connect even though it's the same connection that  worked with apt-get ! :confused:

Is there some network connection wizard I can try ? 	
That issue is COMPLETELY unrelated. Please post it to a new thread! :popcorn:

---

### Post by mrego on 2011-11-23
I had the same problem and I used similar hints as kinka-dzs in #5 but I reinstalled nvidia-173-updates
by typing:

**sudo apt-get install --reinstall nvidia-173-updates**

---

### Post by jhgouveia on 2012-01-09
> **searchfgold6789 said:**
> Hi,
Whenever I try to start my computer from kernel version 3 (it boots fine  with 2.6) Kubuntu stops booting altogether at ```
Checking battery  state ... [OK]
``` And I can still get to tty{x}.
Thanks, any suggestions are welcome :smile:
 - search

[SIZE=3][COLOR=DarkOliveGreen][B]EDIT:
Here is the list of solutions people have found  for this problem:[/B][/COLOR][/SIZE] (BTW  you can get to a command prompt by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F1, no need to call  Geeksquad)

[LIST=1]
[*]Posted by me: I had to reinstall my graphics drivers. I just downloaded them from [Nvidia]("http://nvidia.com/").
[*]Posted by [kinka-dzs]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=437148"):  This person just reinstalled the graphics drivers for his GPU using  APT. GPU's vary from computer to computer, so you'll have to find out  which driver version you need, but his was version 173:```
**sudo apt-get install --reinstall nvidia-173**
```and reboot.
[*]Posted by [cidthecoatrack]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1314702"): they had to reinstall not only their graphics drivers but also nvidia-current, because they owned a 64-bit machine.
[*]Posted by [gbringer]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1471479"): This person had a Radeon graphics chip. He had a seperate issue with downloading them to a USB stick but it's all cool now.
[/LIST]

Thank you! From your tip, I solved my problem... I installed the drivers for my SIS Mirage 3 vídeo card, and since that my notebook startup freezing at startup. I chances to TTY1, and there I uninstalled the driver. PROBLEM FIXED!!!

---

### Post by Ryan.Laughlin on 2012-01-13
Experiencing the same issue. I recently upgraded to 11.10.  Able to pull up terminal.  

I have a Radeon HD 3650 graphics card, so I installed the fglrx driver with 


Then I tried Installing Catalyst Manually (from AMD/ATI's site) as directed here: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Installing_Proprietary_Drivers_a.k.a._Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Installing_Proprietary_Drivers_a.k.a._Catalyst.2Ffglrx), 

Everything seems to go well.  start with removing the drivers, successfully, and make it all the way down to generic config.  

Restart and still stuck at Checking Battery [OK].  Go to terminal, and attempt fglrxinfo and again get:

Error: unable to open display(null)

I thought I was sure that the Radeon HD 3650 was supported by the fglrx driver, but maybe its not?
This is ruining my life.  PLEASE HELP

---

### Post by matza55 on 2012-01-14
> **searchfgold6789 said:**
> You can get to a command line by pressing Ctrl, Alt, and F1 all at the same time. The reason this is happening is because the nvidia drivers only are configured to work with previous kernels and you have to reinstall them.

Thanks for the tip!!

---

### Post by keypox on 2012-01-18
any ati users have and fix this problem?

---

### Post by drtusharks on 2012-02-18
Hi same problem occurred While upgrading to 12.04 alpha 2...Wont go past login screen...checking battery status...then back to login screen..

All I did was 'sudo apt-get -f install' 
and then 'sudo reboot' 

And I was back on Unity....whew..!

---

### Post by ArnaudVR on 2012-02-29
Hey all,

I'm using GDM instead of GDM3, seems something happened after the last update.

With the help of other posts to find out what the issue was I ran:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm
``` and selected gdm as display manager.

```
sudo apt-get install gdm
``` may have done the same thing.

---

### Post by ponsfrilus on 2012-03-08
Removing xorg.conf (/etc/X11/xorg.cong) worked for me.

---

### Post by GilbertSun on 2012-03-15
> **mrego said:**
> I had the same problem and I used similar hints as kinka-dzs in #5 but I reinstalled nvidia-173-updates
by typing:

**sudo apt-get install --reinstall nvidia-173-updates**
thanks,it solved my problem

---

### Post by tigeronk2 on 2012-04-15
I had the same problem of boot process getting stuck at "Checking battery state ...". Everything had worked fine till yesterday.

I went mad trying out all sorts of driver updates, re-installs and xorg/grub config changes.
Finally, when I was examining a big text file and tried creating a backup of it, I got a message telling me that there was not enough disk space.
I deleted a big ~700 MB file > ran startx  ... and that was it.
The graphical environment came back to life again.

Posting it here for people like me who don't allocate enough space to the Ubuntu installation.

---

### Post by ProgRobUK on 2012-05-02
Just had this problem this morning on a desktop running 11.10.  Solution was to reinstall nvidia-current (after trying virtually everything else in this thread) which is interesting as this was a 32 bit machine  and the sticky at the top said you only needed to do this if it was a 64-bit machine.

Thanks for this thread - a lifesaver!

Cheers,
Rob

---

### Post by veehexx on 2012-08-17
Hopefully this won't be classed as unnecessary thread revival - been trying to get GUI back for the last 3 hours. I've been having issues as per the OP.

I've been using Lubuntu 12.04 x64, in headless mode for many months so I don't know what or when the problem occured. VGA hardware is an onboard nvidia 9300.

Basically, my resolution was to install lxde again (apt-get seems to think it wasn't even installed!), and change from lightDM to GDM (using 'dpkg-reconfigure gdm').

reboot, and I now have GUI back!

---

### Post by altosch on 2012-09-17
> **keypox said:**
> any** ati **users have and fix this problem?

ATI Manhattan [Mobility Radeon HD 5400 Series]  on Kubuntu 12.04:

When your booting process stops at "Checking battery state ..." it has nothing to do with the batteries. It's just your VGA driver acting up. This worked for me:

Login to console:[INDENT][FONT=Courier New]Ctrl+Alt+F1[/FONT]
[/INDENT]Remove actual broken driver:[INDENT][FONT=Courier New]$ sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx fglrx_* fglrx-amdcccle* fglrx-dev*[/FONT]
[/INDENT]Remove config file:[INDENT][FONT=Courier New]$ sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.broken[/FONT]
[/INDENT]Install free ATI driver:[INDENT] [FONT=Courier New]$ sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgl1-mesa-glx:i386 libgl1-mesa-dri:i386 xserver-xorg-core[/FONT]
[/INDENT][INDENT] [FONT=Courier New]$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg[/FONT]
[/INDENT]Reboot:[INDENT] [FONT=Courier New]$ sudo reboot
[/FONT][/INDENT][SIZE=1]Gotten from here: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/129597/how-do-i-fix-my-installation-of-ati-catalyst-video-drivers-in-12-04-lts](http://askubuntu.com/questions/129597/how-do-i-fix-my-installation-of-ati-catalyst-video-drivers-in-12-04-lts)[/SIZE]

Then you should be able to login to Unity or KDE. Now go to (Preferences /)  *Additional Drivers* and install driver as normal.

---

### Post by Miki800 on 2012-10-17
sorry for bumping this guys, I have the same problem.
I tried re-installing my intel laptop graphics driver, first I had to figure out what I have:
> 
$ lshw -c video
...
description: VGA compatible controller
product: Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller
...
$ dmesg | grep -i intel
...
[    0.452714] agpgart-intel 0000:00:00.0: Intel 915GM Chipset
...


so I looked it up over the internet
and it was way too much effort for me to compile the driver since I could find only the source code was found in the link-shape of a "git:// ....".
I needed an .SH or .DEB installable single file, failed to find one so I just reinstalled from synaptic the supposedly "Intel graphics driver" by ubuntu which I assumed was the package:
> libdrm-intel1

I also did what others have suggested as redesignating GDM as the default desktop manager.

I still have this problem - every time I restart my laptop (with it's lid down) it is stuck in this state.

only if I come to it and manually type in one of the shells 'startx' it continues.
other VOODOO tricks that actually worked for me after waiting 30 minutes and nothing happened:
* I 'played' with the battery taking it out and back in a few times and then it continued
* I switched between some shells doing nothing and then X started loading
super weird I know but had I not done so (remembering nothing happened for 30 minutes) it would not load.

help anyone? much appreciated!

---

### Post by TRFFT on 2012-10-30
Hello World,

I've got a similar problem with my installation. I think it is because I haven't got anough disk space on my computer but I don't know how to resolve it.

This is the text I get from the console when I try to run startx :

> 
X.Org X Server 1.10.4
Release Date: 2011-08-19
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
Build Operating System: Linux 2.6.24-29-server i686 Ubuntu
Current Operating System: Linux MediaCenter 3.0.0-26-generic #43-Ubuntu SMP Tue Sep 25 17:20:50 UTC 2012 i686
Kernel command line: BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-3.0.0-26-generic root=UUID=da8ce1ff-7a2c-47e5-9e74-e705c017a13d ro quiet splash vt.handoff=7
Build Date: 19 October 2011  05:09:41AM
xorg-server 2:1.10.4-1ubuntu4.2 (For Technical support please see [http://www.ubuntu.com/support](http://www.ubuntu.com/support))
Current version of pixman: 0.22.2
     Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
     to make sure that you have the latest version.
Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
     (++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
     (WW) xarning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Tue Oct 30 10:15:21 2012
(==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
(==) Using system config directory "/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d"
The XKEYBOARD keymap compiler (xkbcomp) reports:
> Error:     Cannot close "/tmp/file712f3M" properly (not enough space?)
>            Output file "/tmp/file712f3M" removed
Errors from xkbcomp are not fatal to the X server
(EE) Error compiling keymap (-)
(EE) XKB: Couldn't compile keymap
(EE) XKB: Failed to load keymap. Loading default keymap instead.
The XKEYBOARD keymap compiler (xkbcomp) reports:
> Error:     Cannot close "/tmp/file5CjD61" properly (not enough space?)
>            Output file "/tmp/file5CjD61" removed
Errors from xkbcomp are not fatal to the X server
(EE) Error compiling keymap (-)
(EE) XKB: Couldn't compile keymap
XKB: Failed to compile keymap
Keyboard initialization failed. This could be a missing or incorrect setup of xkeyboard-config

Fatal server error:
Failed to activate core devices.



I don't understand why I've got a space problem because I don't see this on webmin when I'm connecting to my server from an other computer (see the attached image).

Any help would be appreciated.

[IMG]http://nsa31.casimages.com/img/2012/10/30/121030105011232110.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2012-11-02
TRFFT,
I think you might have some disk space problem, or something like that. But this thread is about graphics drivers, so it might be better to just start a new thread with your question.

---

