---
title: "8.04 - Can´t Change Resolution, Weird Character on Keyboard"
date: 2008-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GameBox 47 on 2008-05-03
Okay, I try to change my resolution and it doesn´t change, but it pops up ¨Keep your current settings?¨ and it also doesn´t work when I try to rotate my screen. Sad

Could it be a problem with Xserver or Ubuntu 8.04 its self?

Also when using the key on my keyboard it accents letters such as a (á) when pressed once and gives me a (´) key when pressed twice, same with quotes (¨) when pressed twice.

---

### Post by GameBox 47 on 2008-05-04
Bump.  I really need to fix this...

---

### Post by tramir on 2008-05-04
I don't know about the resolution thing, but you'd definitely need to give more info - at least what video driver you use.

As for the keyboard - usually that happens when it's set to a "locale" (i'm probably using this wrong) for a country that uses accented letters. Check the default keyboard layout in Preferences - Keyboards - Layout, maybe it's a wrong one.

Hope this helps, sorry I can't help much with the resolution thing.

---

### Post by GameBox 47 on 2008-05-04
Thanks, you've fixed the keyboard problem. :) As for the resolution thing, would it help if I provided some screenshots?

Sometimes when I go to Monitor Resolution Settings my Refresh Rate has options for 75 Hz, or 60 Hz, but it should be only 60 Hz, and it usually is, but changes from time to time for some weird reason.  When I do change my resolution, my monitor doesn't flash on and off, nothing, but the popup window asks me if I would like to keep my settings.  It won't let me rotate my screen either, same problem.  If it helps, after I completed the installation of 8.04 LTS after upgrading from 7.10 my screen resolution would be out of range and I had to reset Xserver in command by pressing Ctrl + Alt + F1.  

My monitor is a Compaq 7500.  On a side note, resolution options worked perfectly in Ubuntu versions before 8.04 LTS.

---

### Post by GameBox 47 on 2008-05-04
Bump.  I know, I hate double posters and "bumpers" too.  I just need to get this fixed. :P

Anyone?

---

### Post by cookies on 2008-05-04
Well, you could try:

Press Alt F2

run displayconfig-gtk

and set the Option to "Generic" and pick your resolution. For example, 1280x1024 is 60hz only.

---

### Post by GameBox 47 on 2008-05-04
Thanks a lot!  It worked. ;)

---

