---
title: "Dumb mounting question.."
date: 2009-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Merovius on 2009-11-27
Ok, so I installed a spare HDD I had laying around and used gparted to delete the old ntfs partitions on it and formated it as one ext4 partition named "Storage2". When I try to open it under Places I get this error,

Error mounting: mount exited with exit code 1: helper failed with:
mount: only root can mount /dev/sdb1 on /media/Storage2

How the heck do I give myself permission to open this drive?? I've been searching theforums and tried several things. None have worked so far.

Help! :confused:

---

### Post by bruno9779 on 2009-11-27
```
sudo mount /dev/sdb1
```

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-11-27
If it's staying in the computer, you might as well add it to fstab so that it automatically mounts every time you boot it.

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2009-11-27
> **Grenage said:**
> If it's staying in the computer, you might as well add it to fstab so that it automatically mounts every time you boot it.

Don't have to anymore , you can just use NTFS_Configuration tool.

---

### Post by Merovius on 2009-11-27
Thanks for the replies,

sudo mount /dev/sdb1

gets me,

mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sdb1,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

Drive is formatted ext4 not NTFS. Don't think NTFS config tools will work here.

---

### Post by Merovius on 2009-11-27
fstab looks like this at the moment.

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=48682f6d-f9c4-4f0d-b877-527032b6f4ee / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=d0ec85cf-7d49-4f89-81cd-74336f5def48 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/Storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=2843d332-d442-4c44-a8a9-86f107594243 /media/Storage2 ext4 0 0

Last line is what I put in to try and get this thing mounted. Shows up under places but "I" cant use it.

---

### Post by Merovius on 2009-11-27
Anyone ?

---

### Post by bruno9779 on 2009-12-03
It seems like your partition is corrupted.

maybe [http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk) can help

---

### Post by Merovius on 2009-12-03
I had messed up the format. I figured out my mistake and it's all good now. Thanks.

---

