---
title: "FF 3.6 in update manager"
date: 2010-01-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CJN on 2010-01-22
I was just wondering how long it would take for FF 3.6 to get pushed through the Update Manager, from reading other posts I actually got the impression that FF wasn't going to be updated until Lucid was released which makes no sense to me, why wait that long? Anyway any clarification would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2010-01-22
3.6 is a major version update and ubuntu has a policy of feature freeze - versions are locked just before the release and only bugfixes and security updates are allowed later. It works that way to increase stability of the release and reduce amount of testing required, interactions between apps, packages and whatnot.
You can get newer versions on your own by update mechanisms when you subscribe to PPA repositories. These are unofficial private repos that you can add to your repo list, many projects have them to offer latest version.

[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mozilla-daily/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mozilla-daily/+archive/ppa)

it will be called Namoroka or something like that but don't worry, it's ff3.6

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-01-22
> **CJN said:**
> I was just wondering how long it would take for FF 3.6 to get pushed through the Update Manager, from reading other posts I actually got the impression that FF wasn't going to be updated until Lucid was released which makes no sense to me, why wait that long? Anyway any clarification would be much appreciated.

Normally it wouldn't reach Karmic repositories, as explained on the previous post. But it seems Mozilla has changed their update policy and [Canonical is adapting to follow it](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8706948&postcount=345). It seems Mozilla will [drop support for Firefox 3.5 in six months](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8707213&postcount=347), so is very likely that we will see Firefox 3.6 backported to Karmic repositories soon. When? Who knows...

If you want to install it right away, see the [COLOR="Sienna"]**Install Other Versions section**[/COLOR] of [Firefox optimization and troubleshooting thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1193567).

---

