---
title: "need modem help"
date: 2009-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tempus on 2009-08-19
have been trying to get a modem working with ubuntu on my laptop. i bought a USB modem by US robotics and here is what happens. 

the modem dials and gets a prompt from my isp. from the log file it says "unable to run /usr/sbin/pppd. Check permissions or specify a "PPPD path" option in wvdial.conf.

what can I do to make this modem work? thnaks:confused:

---

### Post by tempus on 2009-08-19
Bump,

kinda going in circles to get this modem to work. really need some expert help to get it up and running. using gnome-PPP and get the message 'unable to run "/usr/sbin/pppd". tried using as root...nio luck. ran pppconfig made no difference. 
is there someone who can walk me through this labyrinth to make the modem work.

---

### Post by mike555 on 2009-08-19
In my many years I never got USB modems to work right , but most serial ones do ...... there are serial modems that are not too much money , it might be better to just get one and sell the USB one to someone else .......

---

### Post by tempus on 2009-08-19
> **mike555 said:**
> In my many years I never got USB modems to work right , but most serial ones do ...... there are serial modems that are not too much money , it might be better to just get one and sell the USB one to someone else .......

mike,
i am at the point wjhere the modem will dial the number and try to send the password but it cannot run a specific file. I am close to making it work but so far....

---

### Post by tempus on 2009-08-19
ok,
 i got the usb modem to work but it seems to be a flaky connection. her is the connection log.....

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!" 
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60 
--> Cannot get information for serial port. 
--> Initializing modem. 
--> Sending: ATZ 
ATZ 
OK 
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 
OK 
--> Modem initialized. 
--> Sending: ATM1L1DT5142842096 
--> Waiting for carrier. 
ATM1L1DT5142842096 
CONNECT 50666/ARQ/V90/LAPM/V42BIS 
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt. 
Welcome to 3Com Total Control HiPer ARC (TM) 
Networks That Go The Distance (TM) 
login: 
--> Looks like a login prompt. 
--> Sending: myname 
myname 
Password: 
--> Looks like a password prompt. 
--> Sending: (password) 
~[7f]}#@!}!}!} %}!}$}%\}"}&[7f][7f][7f][7f]}%}&[l[02]}<}'}"}(}"}1}$}%\}3})}#} @I$k_Q}6~ 
--> PPP negotiation detected. 
--> Starting pppd at Wed Aug 19 16:14:33 2009 
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied 
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky. 
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied 
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky. 
--> Pid of pppd: 4532 
--> Using interface ppp0 
--> local  IP address 216.221.44.195 
--> remote IP address 204.19.207.230 
--> primary   DNS address 206.123.6.230 
--> secondary DNS address 199.84.54.230

par is flaky? not sure what that means.

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-08-19
> **tempus said:**
> ...--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt. 
...
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied 
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky. 
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied 
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky. 


Hi **tempus**, usually the 'waiting for prompt' needs an extra line to file /etc/wvdial.conf```
Stupid mode = Yes
``` (or a selection to a parameter at the set-up program) which sets 'auto negotiation via ppp'

Also usually you must be root user or the user dialling must be into dip and dialout group.```
sudo adduser USERNAME dip
``` ```
sudo adduser USERNAME dialout
``` (replace USERNAME with your 'PC username' not the provider's username).

>>> Read: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7715470&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7715470&postcount=2)

Regards,
George

---

### Post by tempus on 2009-08-20
Hi George,

thanks for the tips.

 It appears that the modem is in fact connecting despite this warning during connecting.....

--> PPP negotiation detected.
--> Starting pppd at Wed Aug 19 16:14:33 2009
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky. 

not sure if I need to do any more with that or just leave it.
Its too bad that a program does not exist that could handle all aspects of setting up a modem connection. its a bit like jumping through hoops for those with not much experience in using linux.

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-08-20
As you are connected, leave it as is.

There are some programs like pppconfig and gnome-ppp with text or graphics user interface but you must check if suits to you (if you can understand them).

At any case:> **lkraemer said:**
> ...
When you get everything working, I'd suggest backing up the pap-secrets,
chap-secrets, and wvdial.conf files....just in case.
You can use:
```

cd /
cd /etc/ppp
sudo cp pap-secrets pap-secrets.sav
sudo cp chap-secrets chap-secrets.sav
cd ..
cp wvdial.conf wvdial.sav

```
to save the backup files.

lkraemer

and come back here in any problem.

Regards,
George

---

