---
title: "8.10 Repositories Not Working?"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rizlmilk on 2008-10-30
I just installed 8.10 onto my Dell GX260 today. Everything works fine, but nothing downloads from the repositories. The Internet is working perfectly, I am posting this message from the Dell, but when I try to update or install ANY packages through apt-get it either downloads in less than a byte per second or doesn't download at all.

It doesn't really make much sense considering browsing the web is at normal speed, but trying to access files in the repositories doesn't work at all.

So are the repositories not working in 8.10 right now (which would be understandable because it was just released today), or is there something wrong with my installation/computer?

---

### Post by ju2wheels on 2008-10-30
I just downloaded 30mb worth of updates and it only downloaded at 70kb/s which is extremely slow compared to what I usually get (500kb/s+) so its probably just that their servers are overloaded due to people upgrading.

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-10-30
> **ju2wheels said:**
> I just downloaded 30mb worth of updates and it only downloaded at 70kb/s which is extremely slow compared to what I usually get (500kb/s+) so its probably just that their servers are overloaded due to people upgrading.

+1: I even got a "Database error" message when accessing these forums earlier, possibly the servers are busy with all the interest.

---

### Post by rizlmilk on 2008-10-30
That's good to hear that it's most likely temporary, but everything I try to install says that every package associated can't be verified.

For example when trying to install fluxbox:
> WARNING: The following packages cannot be authenticated!
  menu libid3tag0 libimlib2 fluxbox


Is the reason why they can't be authenticated because the server load is too high for any verification data to be received?

---

### Post by shane2peru on 2008-10-30
yes, more than likely they are overloaded.   I just ran sudo apt-get update, and it quit halfway through (I was already running Ibex).  I would just give it a day or two for things to calm down.

Shane

---

