---
title: "15.04 (Vivid Vervet) Know bugs and work-a-rounds"
date: 2015-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-04-29
This was another fairly quiet release, there weren't any major problems, although for some, with systemd being installed by default, may be a problem. There is still an option in grub to start using upstart, so for those that seem to think systemd is bad, they can still start the same old way.

Please post your bug fixes or work-arounds here. If you have any questions, please ask them  in the appropriate sub-forum.

**Edit:** It seems that systemd  and upstart are installed by default on Ubuntu and Xubuntu.

---

### Post by timgood on 2015-05-01
After installing Skype on Kubuntu 15.04 64 bit, the Skype icon does not appear. This is because it relies on the 32 bit version of sni-qt which is not pulled in on the default install. You can rectify this by:

```
sudo apt-get install sni-qt:i386
```

Restart Skype and icon will appear.

---

### Post by timgood on 2015-05-01
When you run a graphical app with sudo within Kubuntu 15.04 it may cause these apps to write as root to .cache and other folders in your home directory. Subsequent boots may result in the desktop failing to load and you are left with a black screen and cursor. This is scheduled to be fixed in subsequent Plasma releases. In the meantime, if this happens to you the fix is to Ctrl+Alt+F2 which will open a terminal. Log in and enter:

```
sudo chown username:username ~/.cache/*
```

Obviously replace 'username' with your username. After a reboot, the desktop should load again. Thanks to Marcin Sagol for this fix.

---

### Post by naushniki on 2015-05-05
> **timgood said:**
> After installing Skype on Kubuntu 15.04 64 bit, the Skype icon does not appear. This is because it relies on the 32 bit version of sni-qt which is not pulled in on the default install. You can rectify this by:

```
sudo apt-get install sni-qt:i386
```

Restart Skype and icon will appear.


Thanks! This worked for skype. I have the same problem with pidgin icon. I wonder if there is a way to fix it too.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-05-10
Menu options greyed out for some applications (e.g vlc) It is a bug in indicator-appmenu [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lyx/+bug/1430059](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lyx/+bug/1430059) [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vlc/+bug/1447224](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vlc/+bug/1447224)

Thanks go to mc4man who pointed out two workarounds. One  solution involves rebuilding appmenu-indicator with a patch from the first link to launchpad, mc4man kindly provided the step by step instructions for  that [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2277447](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2277447)

Edited: The method above to rebuild the .deb creates one with exactly the same version number as in the repo, so it will get updated even if pinned in synaptic. A clumsy way to work around it, apart from manually unchecking it in synaptic eveytime running upgrade(not sure how to do it with sudo apt-get upgrade) is to extract the .deb created above with file roller (then delete the original deb) Open the folder, go to the subfolder DEBIAN and edit the control file to change the version to something higher (like changing the last digit from 1 to 1.5) and then rebuild the deb again from this with dpkg -b and then install this second .deb instead (from the terminal : dpkg -b path/to/folder/extracted/from/first/deb) There must be a way to do it without having to rebuild the .deb a second time but I don't know how.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-05-14
guayadeque is broken in 15.04 because libwxsqlite is upgraded from 3-2.8 to 3-3.0 The application freezes if you try to edit a tag. Workaround is rather easy, grab the .deb for guayadeque-svn in Trusty from [https://launchpad.net/~anonbeat/+archive/ubuntu/guayadeque/+build/5966962](https://launchpad.net/~anonbeat/+archive/ubuntu/guayadeque/+build/5966962) or [https://launchpad.net/~anonbeat/+archive/ubuntu/guayadeque/+build/5966963](https://launchpad.net/~anonbeat/+archive/ubuntu/guayadeque/+build/5966963) (64 or 32 bit) 

For Unity users, the catch is that if you install the .deb directly the music lens would not show any music because the guayadeque scope doesn't work with guayadeque-svn. So one more work around is in order.  Extract the deb with file roller. Delete the original deb. Now open the folder created from extracting the .deb. go to the DEBIAN subfolder and edit the control file to change the name from guayadeque-svn to just guayadeque and the version to something higher than the version of guayadeque in the repo so it won't get updated (0.3.7.01 would work) then rebuild the .deb with

```
dpkg -b /path/to/guayadeque/folder
```

Now install the deb, note that libwxsqlite is not installed as a dependency. This svn is actually an older version  (3.5, repo version is 3.7) But it works without issue and the music shows up in the music lens if the guayadeque-scope is installed (from repo)


Edited: I was able to build guayadeque from source using libwxsqlite3-2.8-dev from Trusty. It plays music and doesn't freeze when editing tags, but it crashes when switching tracks in the middle and sometimes by dragging tracks around in the playlist. So I got rid of it and reinstalled the svn.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-05-16
Audacity crashes a lot because it is compiled against the wrong version of wxWidget [http://forum.audacityteam.org/viewtopic.php?f=48&t=84636](http://forum.audacityteam.org/viewtopic.php?f=48&t=84636)

Work around is to install audacity 2.10 from ppa linked in the post above.

Edited: Here is a better ppa [https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/ubuntu/ffmpeg-test1](https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/ubuntu/ffmpeg-test1)

---

### Post by jhecn on 2015-05-16
> **timgood said:**
> When you run a graphical app with sudo within Kubuntu 15.04 it may cause these apps to write as root to .cache and other folders in your home directory.
The real solution is to use gksudo (ubuntu, xubuntu) or kdesudo (kubuntu) that are safe.
They change the $HOME variable to avoid corrupting /home/username.

---

### Post by lanparty-s on 2015-06-16
I have been playing around with the ***ATI/AMD HD drivers*** fglrx fglrx-core and found that on many distros I was getting a blank black screen after updating my graphics drivers like ***SteamOS and Ubuntu 15.04***.

Now I have a** HD7700** and SteamOS needs a **HD8500 **SteamOS would install, but after the update I would get the black screen, I could hear the cursor moving over options but could not use the program.
 Because of this I thought I would try out Ubuntu and also found when I updated the fglrx fglrx-core from ATI/AMD Drivers site it would leave my system with a black screen again.

So after some research I found out that the fglrx fglrx-core are not suited for my ATI/AMD HD graphics card and in my search I found a new set of files: fglrx-updates  fglrx-updates-core  fglrx-updates-dev

**To Sum it up:**
 fglrx 
fglrx-core 
fglrx-dev
 ***:is for HD8500 ATI/AMD "HD Graphics cards" upwards***
------------------------Replace with files below----------------------------------------
fglrx-updates
  fglrx-updates-core
  fglrx-updates-dev
 ***:is for between HD5800 to HD8500 ATI/AMD "HD Graphics cards" ***_*The Packages here might work on HD8500 and above but have not tried*_...

Hope this helps you install the Drivers  and Control Center.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-06-16
That's news to me, since I have an R9 290X running on fglrx-updates.

---

### Post by lanparty-s on 2015-06-16
> **QIII said:**
> That's news to me, since I have an R9 290X running on fglrx-updates.

Ok my 15.04 64bit server was stock [COLOR=#000000]fglrx [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]fglrx-core [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]fglrx-dev so I had to manually change mine  [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]fglrx-updates [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]fglrx-updates-core [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]fglrx-updates-dev.
[/COLOR]Its good to know them packets run on all the HD cards then if it runs on your R9 290x

---

### Post by william_estrada on 2015-10-21
tried install kubuntu from USB stick, failed because install wanted CD/DVD.
hint: went directly to install without trying first?

---

### Post by william_estrada on 2015-10-21
grub-install fails when using "LABEL=/Ubuntu-15.04" in fstab.  This causes problems when apt-get upgrade fails, which causes package Manager to get hosed up in an attempt to complete install of new kernel package.

How do I create a bug entry?

---

### Post by von Stalhein on 2015-10-22
> **william_estrada said:**
> grub-install fails when using "LABEL=/Ubuntu-15.04" in fstab.  This causes problems when apt-get upgrade fails, which causes package Manager to get hosed up in an attempt to complete install of new kernel package.

How do I create a bug entry?

The whole process is [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs") Hope it gets sorted for you.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-10-22
William_estrada, the thread is for posting only in you have a workaround or fix you want to share.

---

