---
title: "[14.10] Can't login. Nvidia Drivers? Unity settings issues?"
date: 2014-12-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by adaptive on 2014-12-17
This started at some point last weekend and I immediately started trying to "fix things" so I might have corrupted the original problem, made something worse, etc. 

Right now, I can't log in. My computer was set to auto login but that doesn't happen. I get the "beep beep" and I am returned to the login screen. I enter my password and nothing. I can switch to another tty and login to the console. 

I created a second user account (what I am using now) and I can log in with that account to unity. It just isn't "my" regular account. 

What am I doing wrong? I thought this might be related to nvidia (for some reason...) but the fact that I have the nvidia-331 driver installed now and can log in with a new user lets me believe that my xorg.conf is correct and the drivers are fine. I imagine the problems are with some old unity configuration file or something but I can't figure out how to trash those and get back on my account. 

Any help? I have found several similar threads and I tried a few things with no success. Now I am trying to relax, breathe, and get this solved. 

Any ideas? What are some logs that I can post? I have a terminal open su - to my original account so I can post anything or try anything, I think.

---

### Post by sschoener on 2015-01-08
In case this problem still exists: I had the same problem today and solved it by claiming ownership of .Xauthority in my home directory, i.e. execute
```

sudo chown username:username /home/username/.Xauthority

```
in terminal

---

