---
title: "9.10 server keeps freezing after upgrade"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pat_pfw_23 on 2009-11-01
Hi, I'm having some issues with my server after upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10. The server sporadically freezes 30 seconds to a minute or two after booting. I've enclosed a portion of my log file. From my basic judgment, it looks like it has something to do with "Clocksource tsc unstable". Thanks in advance for your help. :D

---

### Post by franapoli on 2009-11-02
Just to confirm the issue: my old toshiba laptop never crashed with 8.10. Now (9.10) it lasts like 5-10 minutes (everything seems to work fine) and then freezes. It happens quite randomly, but the event seems connected with cpu usage (if I play around with alot of windows through multiple desktops - rotating cubes - it freezes sooner, but sooner or later it happens also with compiz off). I got the same tsc-unstable message in my log. Adding "*notsc clocksource*=acpi_pm" to the kernel parameters didn't solve the issue (maybe it works for you?).

Help... :-/

---

### Post by pat_pfw_23 on 2009-11-02
Thanks for the reply! I added "notsc clocksource=acpi_pm" to my boot parameters and my server hasn't crashed yet! Thanks so much!

I'm not sure what may be wrong with your laptop, but I found that some people tried putting "clocksource=hpet" and that helped them. If you upload the portion of your log file where it freezes, I'll be happy to take a look at it. I'm not a very experienced Linux user, but I do know a little. ;)

---

