---
title: "10.10 Daily Total System Freezing"
date: 2011-03-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mcinvale on 2011-03-16
Greetings! I've been having this problem with my primary system for last ~3 months. At least once a day (sometimes 2-3 times), my system completely freezes, audio constantly loops for ~3 seconds and the only way to regain control of my system is hitting the reset button. None of the "special" key combinations work. I can't ping the system, SSH connections into it lockup, etc... Totally dead. 

I've searched over the forums 100+ times and tried many many many fixes, none of which fix anything. Here's a list of what I've tried:

[LIST=1]
[*]Add *acpi_skip_timer_override nohz=off* to boot options
[*]Add *acpi_force_irqpoll* to boot options
[*]Disable compiz effects
[*]Changed *opengl sync to vblank*
[*]Remove Ubuntu One
[*]Disable Wifi
[*]Power management off
[*]Bios: Intel speedstep disabled
[*]Bios: Intel turboboost disabled
[*]Updated bios
[*]Updated SSD firmware
[*]Replaced sata cables
[*]Replaced video card
[*]Tested memory
[*]Cycled through memory sticks
[/LIST]

I'm pretty much out of ideas at this point. Any help would be very much appreciated. I **really** don't want to switch OS :(

---

### Post by Sina_RJ on 2011-03-16
can you explain what happen exactly before freezing?
your system specs are as required or higher?

---

### Post by mcinvale on 2011-03-16
**can you explain what happen exactly before freezing?**

Nothing specific happens before it freezes. I can be browsing the web, composing an email, SSH'd to another box, etc... It just freezes and won't respond to any requests.

**and does your system specs are as required or higher?**

System is fairly strong:

Intel DX58S0 Motherboard
GeForce 9500GT 1GB Video Card
4GB Crucial Memory
80GB Intel SSD Drive
Software RAID1 2TB Drives

---

### Post by tordeu on 2011-03-16
Have you tried booting from another kernel? Maybe the problem was introduced with a kernel update. Would reinstalling the OS would be an option (or maybe upgrading, when Natty comes out in about 6 weeks?) Do you have a hard drive to install a fresh 10.10 or copy your complete system to a hdd to see if the problem has something to do with the ssd?
(It **might** also be a hardware problem other then memory (ssd, mainboard, psu, ...).

---

### Post by Sina_RJ on 2011-03-16
are there any applications that maybe have conflict?
i had compizconfig and docky when my pc kept freezing!
have you tried running system testing?
and 1 another question,you have a dual-boot system?
if these answers are no,i have no idea :(

---

### Post by mcinvale on 2011-03-16
**Have you tried booting from another kernel? Maybe the problem was introduced with a kernel update.**

I've tried several of the kernels that are on the system, they all produce the same result.

**Would reinstalling the OS would be an option (or maybe upgrading, when Natty comes out in about 6 weeks?) Do you have a hard drive to install a fresh 10.10 or copy your complete system to a hdd to see if the problem has something to do with the ssd?**

Nothing sitting around, but if there are known problems with SSD drives I can order something to test with. I didn't see this in any of the other threads I was browsing.

---

### Post by mcinvale on 2011-03-16
**are there any applications that maybe have conflict?**

Not that I'm aware of, but I'm also not exactly sure what would conflict. I don't see anything in the logs that point to this as a problem. Anywhere specific I should look?

**have you tried running system testing?**

What type of testing are you referring to?

**and 1 another question,you have a dual-boot system?**

I do not.

---

### Post by tordeu on 2011-03-16
With System testing he/she probably meant System > Administration > System Testing

---

### Post by Sina_RJ on 2011-03-16
> **tordeu said:**
> With System testing he/she probably meant System > Administration > System Testing

as *tordeu* says,I'm referring you there,i solved many problems with that!

and i said i have no idea what's going on with your system!
so I think i might say,sorry pal

---

### Post by mcinvale on 2011-03-16
**With System testing he/she probably meant System > Administration > System Testing**

Thanks, I'll give that a shot tonight and see what it comes up with.

---

