---
title: "13.10 kern.log @ 8GB Clear it how?"
date: 2014-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ke4gqe on 2014-02-14
Is there an application or terminal command line that will bypass permissions and reset kern.log? I get this "you are not the owner" promp....  please help because my LAN network is over logging. I am out of hdd pace due to this issue. -Doug-

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-02-14
You need to use sudo to anything in /var/log.

Try this:
```
sudo cat /dev/null > /var/log/kern.log
```

That will empty the log.  Before you do this though, make sure you understand why your system is so furiously logging errors.  Fixing the problem is more important than fixing the symptom.

I also recommend learning how to use the [logrotate]("http://linux.die.net/man/8/logrotate") application.

---

### Post by ke4gqe on 2014-02-14
Correct! But kern.log has to be shrunk to further analyze the problem (HDD space is maxed out), after the shrinking, and the new log enties are written. 

Note:The problem appears to be coming from network logs coming from LAN acoording to what I see in gedit. 

I attempted that command in the last few days, and I get "Permission Denied" You are not the owner... so I am stuck at the moment for that PC so I'm on another machine to avoid filling up the 20GB SSD drive partition on that CF-19 Toughbook and crashing.

Yep I'm kinda new to Linux, but I've felt the extreme need to get away from Bill Gates...

---

### Post by ke4gqe on 2014-02-14
Am not able to find any common cleaning commands on the forum to run logrotate.  how do I get around the permmission denied "not owner" prompt when running sudo cat /dev/null > /var/log/kern.log  ???

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-02-14
sudo cat /dev/null >/var/log/kern.log runs **cat** as root, but not the output redirect to the log file. Try```
sudo tee /var/log/kern.log </dev/null
```instead, to give the writing process root permissions.

Some background information on sudo and permissions, which everybody using Linux ought to learn some day:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions)

---

