---
title: "U 10.04 Not Loading Security Updates?"
date: 2012-01-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oaxacamatt1 on 2012-01-09
Hi all,
I have noticed for two days now that three programs will not load via Update Manager.  When I run update manager it calls the three programs 'important' but not go...

This does not seem right.  Can someone tell me why or what I should do.

---

### Post by cmileto on 2012-01-09
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get check
sudo apt-get upgrade

---

### Post by oaxacamatt1 on 2012-01-09
But Hold it, what if I dont want to upgrade.  I am not ready yet.

---

### Post by bkratz on 2012-01-10
> **oaxacamatt1 said:**
> But Hold it, what if I dont want to upgrade.  I am not ready yet.



Sudo apt-get upgrade doesn't upgrade to a new version--that would be sudo apt-get dist-upgrade. For a reasonably good explanation see an old page at the bottom, for a definition of apt-get

[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/apt-get.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/apt-get.html)

---

### Post by mcduck on 2012-01-10
> **bkratz said:**
> Sudo apt-get upgrade doesn't upgrade to a new version--that would be sudo apt-get dist-upgrade. For a reasonably good explanation see an old page at the bottom, for a definition of apt-get

[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/apt-get.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/apt-get.html)

...actually even *dist-upgrade* dosn't upgrade to new release version. It's just a bit more powerful version of *apt-get upgrade*, able to add and remove packages if required to solve dependencies (normal *upgrade* would only be able to replace an existing package with a new version).

The command for a release upgrade would be "*sudo do-release-upgrade*" or "*sudo update-manager -d*" (you *can* do it with *dist-upgrade*, although you'd first need to manually edit your software sources to point to the new release's repositories, and remove any repositories not available for the new release. This is not recommended method for release upgrades).

---

