---
title: "10.10 System Slows Down and Becomes Unresponsive."
date: 2010-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Awfml on 2010-11-07
Hi guys, this is my first time posting. I've been off and on with Ubuntu in the past but this time I'm really trying to commit to it! So here I am looking for help instead of crying back to windows or something D:

I installed 10.10 last week and no problems yet, I've got a minecraft server running on my laptop and I use synergy between my laptop and my desktop. It's really a lot of fun. I didn't have any problems for a few days. Tonight was the first time I saw anything. So this is kind of a long shot, because I honestly have zero idea for where to start in figuring out what is going wrong. I was hoping you guys could help me figure that out.

So I think I've had this problem a few months ago when I was on 10.04-- and it's not often that I've used ubuntu in the past.. so this has been my first series attempt at it. What happens is that spontaneously the system will start lagging on input. I'll try to close things or whatever and it just won't happen. It will get slower and slower until it is just absolutely unresponsive and I have to do a hard reset. There doesn't seem to be much rhyme or reason for it. Like I installed 10.10 on my desktop last Wednesday and it has had zero problems until tonight.

I've called my friend when this happens and his usual recommendation is to try to switch to a different xorg with ctrl alt f2. This time it worked and I ran 'top' thinking the issue was going to be obvious. I thought java was it because I had minecraft open and it was using 103% of my cpu so i killed it. I tried to switch back to the f8 terminal and it didn't work. I tried switching to f7 and this time it was unresponsive and would not switch back.

So I'm really sorry that I don't have more information for you guys. I don't really know what to look for in the logs and I don't know how to reproduce it honestly.

Does anyone have any suggestions? I was thinking it might be some sort of bad driver, but I have no idea how i'd figure that out.

---

### Post by Awfml on 2010-11-07
UPDATE: The problem seems to reoccur when I am running java, and possibility minecraft isn't shutting down correctly. Can anyone help direct me to the system log I should be looking for to confirm this? Or does anyone know what might be going wrong?

---

