---
title: "22.04 firefox snap - access network shares"
date: 2023-03-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by schneil-2k on 2023-03-02
Hi all

I'm running ubuntu 22.04 and the default snap version of firefox.  Is there a way to allow it to load and save files to network shares?  It's a big deal for me, as I keep most of my files on my NAS. 

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2023-03-02
The easy way to bring back full functionality for Firefox is to remove the snap version and install the .deb file: [https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/04/how-to-install-firefox-deb-apt-ubuntu-22-04](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/04/how-to-install-firefox-deb-apt-ubuntu-22-04)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2023-03-02
Or, better, add the Mozilla Team PPA repository to your sources. Then Firefox will update with everything else on your system.

[https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/04/how-to-install-firefox-deb-apt-ubuntu-22-04](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/04/how-to-install-firefox-deb-apt-ubuntu-22-04)

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2023-03-02
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Or, better, add the Mozilla Team PPA repository to your sources. Then Firefox will update with everything else on your system.

[https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/04/how-to-install-firefox-deb-apt-ubuntu-22-04](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/04/how-to-install-firefox-deb-apt-ubuntu-22-04)

I think to do that you need to do something with apt priority otherwise it will just reinstall the snap since the "firefox" in the repository is a script to install the snap version and it has a higher version number than the ppa's. I don't remember the details since I purged all snaps and I don't install firefox through apt (even if you purged snap if you try to install FF through the ppa without setting apt priority you will still pull in the snap, it just reinstalls all the snap infrastructures along with FF)

Easy and painless way, just download the binary from Mozilla. Extract the tar file to your home, click firefox to start. When it ask you if you want to make firefox the default browser, say yes. This will create .desktop file in ~/.local/share/applications. You can change to other browser as default later and the .desktop file would remain there (or of course you can make your own) It will update automatically when you restart firefox when new version is available or you can do this manually by clicking Help > About Firefox (therefore I suggest you change the extracted folder name to firefox instead of fireox-xxx where xxx is the version number **before **you start clicking firefox inside to use it.  Before because once you started it will be a bit more work to change the path in the .desktop file. 

Unless working in a multi-user system I don't see any advantage to install browser system wide, so no need for .deb or ppa and no need to invoke sudo (some tutorials online tell people to put the firefox folder in /opt, that is stupid)

 Many apps are actually more functional, more up to date and less buggy by downloading the binaries from upstream. Packaging just adds an unnecessary layer of complication which can potentially lead to more bugs. Examples are blender and scilab. Scilab in Ubuntu's repository is basically broken and not usable. I wonder why they packaged it if they didn't even bother to test it by trying to launch it (it won't even launch because of unmet dependencies) If you are not working in a multi-user system or if you are not a system admin I see no point in getting these from the repo.

---

### Post by schneil-2k on 2023-03-03
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> I think to do that you need to do something with apt priority otherwise it will just reinstall the snap since the "firefox" in the repository is a script to install the snap version and it has a higher version number than the ppa's. I don't remember the details since I purged all snaps and I don't install firefox through apt (even if you purged snap if you try to install FF through the ppa without setting apt priority you will still pull in the snap, it just reinstalls all the snap infrastructures along with FF)

Easy and painless way, just download the binary from Mozilla. Extract the tar file to your home, click firefox to start. When it ask you if you want to make firefox the default browser, say yes. This will create .desktop file in ~/.local/share/applications. You can change to other browser as default later and the .desktop file would remain there (or of course you can make your own) It will update automatically when you restart firefox when new version is available or you can do this manually by clicking Help > About Firefox (therefore I suggest you change the extracted folder name to firefox instead of fireox-xxx where xxx is the version number **before **you start clicking firefox inside to use it.  Before because once you started it will be a bit more work to change the path in the .desktop file. 

Unless working in a multi-user system I don't see any advantage to install browser system wide, so no need for .deb or ppa and no need to invoke sudo (some tutorials online tell people to put the firefox folder in /opt, that is stupid)

 Many apps are actually more functional, more up to date and less buggy by downloading the binaries from upstream. Packaging just adds an unnecessary layer of complication which can potentially lead to more bugs. Examples are blender and scilab. Scilab in Ubuntu's repository is basically broken and not usable. I wonder why they packaged it if they didn't even bother to test it by trying to launch it (it won't even launch because of unmet dependencies) If you are not working in a multi-user system or if you are not a system admin I see no point in getting these from the repo.

I share the laptop with my wife, so unfortunately I can't go with the binary route.  (I'm not brave enough to start putting files outside of my home directory, in case I break something!)

I'll try the ppa of the mozilla developers.  It still feels like a clunky way of doing things though, but needs must.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2023-03-04
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Or, better, add the Mozilla Team PPA repository to your sources. Then Firefox will update with everything else on your system.

> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> I think to do that you need to do something with apt priority otherwise it will just reinstall the snap

> **schneil-2k said:**
> I share the laptop with my wife, so unfortunately I can't go with the binary route.  (I'm not brave enough to start putting files outside of my home directory, in case I break something!)

I'll try the ppa of the mozilla developers.  It still feels like a clunky way of doing things though, but needs must.
Both SeijiSensei and monkeybrain are correct. The PPA route has several advantages, but the link referenced in Seiji's post won't work because the priority is too low. I have summarized the proper steps in my tutorial: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2438709&p=13939386#post13939386](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2438709&p=13939386#post13939386)

Just ignore the LXD stuff unless you are in the mood for a real rabbit&#8209;hole adventure.

BTW, another of the advantages of the PPA route is that you will also get the latest and most secure version of Thunderbird, which Canonical does not supply on a timely basis. The PPA will also allow you to optionally install your choice of ESR or Development version of FF.

I agree with you as to clunkiness. I normally avoid PPAs not only for the clunkiness aspect, but also out of security concerns. For example, on your next release upgrade (should you choose to do a network upgrade), Ubuntu will automatically disable the PPA, then install the snap version. You will be forced to uninstall the snap, then reinstall the PPA and all your bookmarks/history/etc. It's a major pain in the neck, but unavoidable with PPAs.

As to monkeybrain's point, standalone apps are manageable so long as we are dealing with one or two. But once they start proliferating out of control, then they undermine the very advantages that the repos were designed to give us.

---

### Post by schneil-2k on 2023-03-06
> **DuckHook said:**
> Both SeijiSensei and monkeybrain are correct. The PPA route has several advantages, but the link referenced in Seiji's post won't work because the priority is too low. I have summarized the proper steps in my tutorial: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2438709&p=13939386#post13939386](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2438709&p=13939386#post13939386)

Just ignore the LXD stuff unless you are in the mood for a real rabbit&#8209;hole adventure.

BTW, another of the advantages of the PPA route is that you will also get the latest and most secure version of Thunderbird, which Canonical does not supply on a timely basis. The PPA will also allow you to optionally install your choice of ESR or Development version of FF.

I agree with you as to clunkiness. I normally avoid PPAs not only for the clunkiness aspect, but also out of security concerns. For example, on your next release upgrade (should you choose to do a network upgrade), Ubuntu will automatically disable the PPA, then install the snap version. You will be forced to uninstall the snap, then reinstall the PPA and all your bookmarks/history/etc. It's a major pain in the neck, but unavoidable with PPAs.

As to monkeybrain's point, standalone apps are manageable so long as we are dealing with one or two. But once they start proliferating out of control, then they undermine the very advantages that the repos were designed to give us.


Thanks - your instructions worked a treat!  I now have the ppa firefox running on my 22.04.  And can load/save to network shares- yaay!

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2023-03-06
Glad this solution worked for you.

Good Luck and Happy Ubuntu-ing!

---

### Post by sonicdiscovery on 2023-03-07
I used to recommend Ubuntu to beginners, but not any more :) Linux Mint or PopOS for beginners.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-03-07
This matter is resolved I realize, but you can use network shares in *snap* packages too..

I'll provide a link to an answer written in 2019 when *chromium* was a *snap* package... ie. the *snap connect* option allows you to access more than just your $HOME or user directory.

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1184357/why-cant-chromium-suddenly-access-any-partition-except-for-home/1184374#1184374](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1184357/why-cant-chromium-suddenly-access-any-partition-except-for-home/1184374#1184374)

If the *removable-media* plus is used or *enabled*, the *snap* package can access /mnt/ and /media/

Almost all my storage exists on servers, which I like as it allows me to use different machines. I have by choice my mount points in the root directory (ie. `/de2900` will mount one machine; `/pe2900` for another...) as it saves me typing.  

When in mid-2019 the chromium *deb* package moved to *snap* I suddenly found I couldn't access my media files.. leading to my report on discourse.ubuntu.com & subsequent bug report.  This was I found out a *security feature*, but it went against what I wanted to do.

The fix for me was just two mounts..  I added an additional mount in `/mnt/de2900/` that could be used by the *snap* browsers & other *snap* packages, and `/de2900` for the rest of the apps (*as I didn't want to type /mnt all the time!*).  

I did that with chromium back in 2019, and just use the same with `firefox` now it's a snap package.

(*I also in the past used different parameters for the /mnt/ mounts that had reduced rights too, but I can see I've not implemented that on this box*)

---

