---
title: "11.10 Cron newbie - help!"
date: 2012-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by boblettoj99 on 2012-10-24
Hello, 
For a job I have my client wants an email sent to him at midnight on Thursday each week. This email is built and sent by a Java program (Now packaged in an executable jar).

I installed gnome-schedule and added a new command:
0 0 * * 4 java -jar myjarfile.jar

This works fine - the program executes and I receive the email. However, if my understanding is correct, this won't work if my computer is off at that time.

I've looked into anacron to solve this but I don't get it at all! Can anyone tell me the steps required to set this up with anacron?

Thanks

---

### Post by since on 2012-10-24
```
crontab -l
```

---

### Post by psychotix on 2012-10-24
> **boblettoj99 said:**
> . However, if my understanding is correct, this won't work if my computer is off at that time.


You do realize computers can't do ANYTHING if they are OFF.  Perhaps you should move the program and cron job to a server that is always on.

Depending on what the email contains, there might be web services that provide the same functionality.

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-10-24
You may not have the right kind of job for anacron.

Anacron is intended for weird cases like "My daily tasks are set to run at 0700, but my computer gets powered on at 0800. I still want daily tasks to run." or "My machine only gets powered on twice a month, and I want daily, weekly, and monthly tasks to run in the right order."

If that's true, and you want the e-mail sent whenever the machine is powered back on, regardless of time-of-day, then you don't need to configure anything. Simply add the crontab launching the job to /etc/cron.daily/ (or .weekly/ or .monthly/). Lots of examples there for you to copy.

If you really want to be clever and use *both* cron and anacron, set a timestamp in /var or /tmp whenever the e-mail is sent. If the timestamp is less than 23:59 old, then an e-mail was already sent today.

---

