---
title: "HOLY ****!!! one step closer mounting my NTFS harddrive. Please help me..."
date: 2007-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Norrbagge on 2007-10-20
This problem is for Ubuntu 7,10 (Gutsy Gibbon)

i know there are millions of these threads that have popped up now... And i feel like i have read through them all. I have also spent mucho time googling... This has taken me so many hours that i want to cry...

Earlier today i found a thread for older Ubuntu and it helped me understand some things and i have now found my NTFS harddrive in "my computer" where it didnt show yesterday...

NOW, to my problem... When i try to open it, it says:

Cannot mount volume
```
 mntent: line 13 in /etc/fstab is bad
Error opening partition device : Permission denied
Failed to start up volume : Permission denied
Couldnt mount device '/dev/sdb1' : Permission denied
Mount failed
```

here is my fstab file: 

```
 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=7d23a1f1-1fb0-4b5b-9ca9-5b9779350231 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=51bfefdc-3c35-4e89-ab27-28eb7a0908bf /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=A6B48DC3B48D9689 /dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=force 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=3b4ee274-c46a-46d6-8c8d-7d7fa5584f21 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 ntfs-fuse users 0 0
auto,gid=1001,umask=0001 0 0 0 0 0 

```

its the line with "force" in it i finally figured out how to use. and its after i inserted that line i got my harddrive showing... 

i do have fiddled with it. but after the last time i was in there i got my harddrive showing and now i do not dare to do more before someone with better knowledge then me have given their input... I am still new and my experience is limited. hopefully someone else out there can help me get this **** working... Been nothing but probolems i feel after leaving 7,04 and using 7.10... 

if i have missed a thread with this solution i am sorry... i feel like i have been through them all. but ofc i might have missed a post with the answer... 


As i have your attention, i hope... i have a second problem with getting my partition mounted... I have two harddrives. The smallest i have Ubuntu installed... I tried to split the HD yesterday like i did with mandriva (was frustrated and tried it yesterday). there i split the harddrive sucessfully, actually got my NTFS working after install too... 

What i did in Ubuntu was that i had one drive mounted to "/" (as root). then i had the other set to "/home"... In mandriva i had it set to "/media"... i did this so if my system crash i can still have my music, docs and such safe... The problem is that the partition isnt showing... what have i dont wrong???


EDIT1:
I thought i could add my mtab text file. Hopefully it will help:

```

/dev/sda2 / ext3 rw,errors=remount-ro 0 0
proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/sys /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
devshm /dev/shm tmpfs rw 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/volatile tmpfs rw 0 0
/dev/sda1 /home ext3 rw 0 0
securityfs /sys/kernel/security securityfs rw 0 0

```

---

### Post by tzulberti on 2007-10-20
> **Norrbagge said:**
> 
/dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 ntfs-fuse users 0 0
auto,gid=1001,umask=0001 0 0 0 0 0 


The error is there... It should be something like:
/dev/sdb1  /media/sdb1     ntfs-fuse      user,auto,gid=1001,umask=0001  0   0


Also take into account that there are to lines for the same partition:
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=A6B48DC3B48D9689 /dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=force 0 0

You could try to comment one of the lines.

---

### Post by Norrbagge on 2007-10-20
i tried your line... i removed the last line you said caused the error, then i replaced the entry line with the line you had written. i then got an error message, mentioning my mtab file... I have now added the mtab file to my first post...

---

### Post by tzulberti on 2007-10-20
Could you post the error message since i could not see what is wrong with your file?

---

### Post by Norrbagge on 2007-10-20
earlier today i went out and bought meself an external harddrive... was planning on it anyway. nice to have for backups incase me system crashes... So i just copied it the most important stuff over to it and reinstalled Ubuntu... Easy way to get rid of the NTFS trouble. Plus it made me get of my *** and buy the external harddrive... just got Ubuntu running with Nvidia drivers and WoW.  Next step is getting the 2nd harddrive running in Ubuntu...

but thanks alot for taking time to help me... very nice of you ;-)

---

