---
title: "Screen resolution on an HP Pavilion 6683"
date: 2009-01-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fredbird67 on 2009-01-20
The other day, my wife asked me to get rid of a couple of old computers we have taking up space.  I'm working on the first one right now, which is an HP Pavilion 6683.  I've upgraded the RAM from its standard 64 MB to 192 MB and installed Xubuntu, and it runs pretty good, although YouTube videos are kinda choppy, but hey, I'm just giving the thing away, so I don't plan to spend any money on it if I can help it.

Anyways, I'm having a bit of a problem getting the screen resolution to offer resolutions higher than 800x600.  I've tried a few suggestions on here, and I even copied the xorg.conf file from my own computer, on which I'm running Ubuntu and GNOME (both of them have Hardy Heron), since that works on my Ubuntu box, but no -- I still can't get anything better than 800x600.  Any ideas?

Thanx in advance,
Fred in St. Louis, MO USA

(getting on my soapbox here)
PS -- If nothing else, I also ran a live CD of DCL 2008 on it (it's a Puppy Linux mod that uses XFCE instead of JWM -- I don't care for JWM at all), and it displays a 1024x768 screen resolution, although I'd rather stick with something Ubuntu-based if at all possible.  IMHO, given the way Hardy and Intrepid have been BAD at properly detecting cards and monitors and not offering anything higher than 800x600, I worry about Ubuntu's future if they can't correct this, because I fear that it will turn OFF a lot of potential converts and come back to bite Canonical.  As best as I can tell, the old xorg.conf that was in versions of Ubuntu prior to Hardy Heron did NOT need replacing at all -- if it ain't broke, don't try to fix it! (getting off my soapbox)

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2009-01-20
First off I suggest you copy the original xorg.conf back. Xorg.conf is based upon what hardware you have, so sharing the same file between different computers doesn't work very well. :)

Now check if there are any drivers in System-Administration-Hardware Drivers which you can install for your graphic card. 

Also, Flash players 10 (beta) from Adobe runs much better for a lot of people than flash 9. See [here]("http://tombuntu.com/index.php/2008/05/16/test-drive-flash-player-10-beta-in-ubuntu/") how to install.

---

### Post by fredbird67 on 2009-01-20
Yes, I did make sure to back up the original xorg.conf file, so I'll make sure and restore that.  But then again, I'm no worse off than before, either, as I'm still limited to 800x600 (hey, at least it's not like I'm stuck with a 640x480 maximum!).  Part of the problem is I have no idea what drivers it needs for the video, since I'm using the on-board video and not a seperate video card (I'm hoping just standard VGA will do the trick here).  I already tried the hardware drivers, like you said, and that list was empty.  Maybe the restricted drivers are the answer?  I remember seeing those in Synaptic when I downloaded and installed Flash and all the A/V codecs -- I'll try those.

And thanks for the tip about the Flash Player 10 Beta for Ubuntu.  I'll have to check that out (hey, why isn't that in the repositories?).

---

### Post by fredbird67 on 2009-01-21
UPDATE:  I've found that the integrated video card on this systems uses an Intel 810 chipset.  I tried "gksudo displayconfig-gtk", and, in fact, with some settings I tried, it briefly went into my preferred 1024x768 mode, but immediately straight back to 800x600.  So I now know for a fact it can at least do 1024x768 -- the question is, how am I supposed to make it give me that option in the XFCE screen resolution choices and make it stick?

For the record, I've also restored the original xorg.conf file.  Its contents are as follows:

(begin xorg.conf file)
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
(end xorg.conf file)

---

### Post by fredbird67 on 2009-01-22
Anyone?

If I don't have an answer by 12:00 midnight U.S. central time tomorrow (Friday) night, I'm gonna put DCL on there instead, since it got the screen resolution right on its own, even though it's nowhere near as well-known as Ubuntu is.

---

### Post by karrank% on 2009-01-23
Fred, I can't help you but I can relate that you got much further than I ever did---Tried Dapper thru Hardy on my old (since relegated to the junkpile)  HP 8650C and rarely got past the boot screen. and when I did, it would just work for a while then randomly and unpredictably freeze. so you've really succeeded here, save the screen res prob.

---

### Post by fredbird67 on 2009-01-23
Karrank, were you using Ubuntu or Xubuntu?  I don't think there's much of any way at all that Ubuntu will work on such an old machine, which is why I went with Xubuntu on it.  In fact, on our laptop, which we bought in 2005, on which my wife wanted Windows XP, I tried installing Ubuntu on it via Wubi here while back, and it choked on that, so I tried Xubuntu, also via Wubi, and it's doing much better with Xubuntu.

---

### Post by karrank% on 2009-01-23
> **fredbird67 said:**
> Karrank, were you using Ubuntu or Xubuntu?  I don't think there's much of any way at all that Ubuntu will work on such an old machine, which is why I went with Xubuntu on it.  In fact, on our laptop, which we bought in 2005, on which my wife wanted Windows XP, I tried installing Ubuntu on it via Wubi here while back, and it choked on that, so I tried Xubuntu, also via Wubi, and it's doing much better with Xubuntu.

both

 and both choked,

---

