---
title: "10.10 or 11.04?"
date: 2011-04-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chase2hoop on 2011-04-16
I am switching from windows to Ubuntu and was wondering which OS would be best. 10.10, or 11.04. Any installation tips would be great as well. Thanks.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-04-16
I'd go with 10.04: LTS (long term support) release; has been out there longer than 10.10, hence more bugs addressed and corrected.
Don't touch 11.04, at least not now; not even when it's released. If you really need to use it (hardware problems with the older releases, for which only a switch to a newer kernel would be the solution) then wait until, say, June or something before you install it: the updates will solve some of the major bugs until then.

As for a guide, download [this]("http://ubuntu-manual.org/download/10.04e2/en_US/screen") book and go through it (it's an easy read).

---

### Post by chase2hoop on 2011-04-16
ok, Great! thanks for your help!;)

---

### Post by rudihawk on 2011-04-16
No real tips :) 

Just backup before you install (your NB data/photos/music/documents) etc 

Burn the CD, pop it in and you will be on your way in time!

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-04-16
10.10 is my favorite!
10.04 is supported a little longer..
but 10.10 is awesome.
eh, I guess 10.04 is to though. lol <3


 good luck, welcome to ubuntu!

---

### Post by sammiev on 2011-04-16
You can burn a few CDs and find which one works best for you and your computer without installing. Then I would use [http://clonezilla.org/]("http://clonezilla.org/") to backup your computer before installing Lunix as you can always return to that point if you want to try other versions of Lunix down the road. GL :)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-04-16
!0.10 has been the best of 3 releases for me so far starting with 9.10 . I don't  want to give it up in two weeks , but I'm too curious about the next release as always . I can't keep my finger off the trigger when it comes to a new release.:)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-04-16
I'd suggest installing Ubuntu 11.04 now, it'll save you having to update to 11.04 in ten days time. (not that you "have" to, but you do if you want all the latest versions of programs). Also, 11.04's got a much better desktop user interface than 10.10.

---

