---
title: "9.10 Installation problems"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aust77 on 2009-10-31
I upgraded to Karmic from Jaunty just yesterday, but today I have experienced some problems. I had to manually switch on and off my PC to be able to even load Ubuntu. Finally, when I did, it went to a dark blue screen at one point and I could not get rid of it, meaning I had to reboot 5 more times. I do not want these problems to persist. My latest Ubuntu CD is Intrepid, and I do not want to install Jaunty from Intrepid and then Karmic from Jaunty again. Is there a way to fix my problem, or simply re-install Karmic from desktop without having to burn a CD?

---

### Post by aust77 on 2009-10-31
Could somebody please help me?

---

### Post by Egi_Power on 2009-10-31
Hi!

Don't bump in 20 minutes.

You should wait a day before you bump your thread.

The people are on this forum help each other in their free time.

They are not paid to answer as soon as you have a question.

Don't worry, someone will find your post and hopefully help you solve your problem.

Take it easy.

And remember to be patient.

Egi_Power

---

### Post by akand074 on 2009-10-31
Was Karmic working fine for a duration of time before this problem occured? If yes, what did you do during this time? If no, then I don't see what else it could be other than an installation problem and I would say your best bet is to try a reinstallation, maybe a clean install might be the best decision at this point.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2009-10-31
I started up the Karmic install last night, checking every so often in case anything needed to be verified (i.e. replacing a config file with a newer one). I woke up this morning and began using it for the first time, and had problems from the start. I understand I can reinstall, but how? Via Update Manager?

---

### Post by akand074 on 2009-10-31
> **aust77 said:**
> I started up the Karmic install last night, checking every so often in case anything needed to be verified (i.e. replacing a config file with a newer one). I woke up this morning and began using it for the first time, and had problems from the start. I understand I can reinstall, but how? Via Update Manager?

Replacing some config files may have been the problem. I've had a problem in the past where I personally edited a configuration file or it was edited through certain software and when you replaced it a bunch of stuff started having errors. Though I don't see why it would cause the problem you had. I'm sure many people replaced them without problems. I don't know if you can update through the update manager if your already running 9.10, I personally would back up all my files if they aren't on a separate partition and then download and burn Karmic onto a CD and do a fresh install over the current partition.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2009-10-31
Question is..how? This is my only computer I own, and I do not have a CD burner. Buy one, I suppose?

---

### Post by klemes on 2009-11-01
Are you writing these from inside Karmic?Then you were able to boot finally.
If so your installation of Karmic may be salvageable.
Please remain calm and try to describe your problem with more details in order for someone to be able to help you!And remember no panic!!.There usually are more than solutions around!

---

### Post by aust77 on 2009-11-01
Indeed I have been... after seven tries. I am running Karmic with patience for now, as I await a solution. Here is an exact report of my install:

I began the install from the 9.04 Update Manager Friday night.
I left it on until about the time I was going to go to sleep, I replaced an old config file (can't remember the name :( ) with a new one.
I went to sleep, leaving my computer on. Unfortunately my computer is not in my room, but my older brother's.
Without knowing Karmic was installing, he turned it off when he get home, around 2 AM.
I woke up Saturday morning and instantly began having booting problems, needing to reboot 7 times every time I wanted to be able to even access Karmic.
On the desktop, I left KTorrent on unattended, returned 25 minutes later, only to find the computer was stuck on the generic "screensaver" that navy blue blank screen. No matter what keyboard commands I issued or no matter what I did with the mouse, my computer was stuck on this screen. My monitor is fine as it was with Jaunty. I suspect this is because my brother turned the computer off "during" the install. The "during" is because I'm not sure if it was finished or not at the time.


I apologize if I am too general in my explanation, I am still new to Ubuntu (9.04 being the first actual time I used Ubuntu). Thanks for your time,


aust77

---

### Post by aust77 on 2009-11-01
Egi_Power:

Is bumping after four hours okay? If it involves Ubuntu freezing on my only computer?

---

### Post by akand074 on 2009-11-01
There is a way to reinstall karmic without a CD drive, but answer these first:
1) Do you currently have a windows partition?
2) Do you have a USB Flash drive?
3) And are you running 32 bit or 64 bit Ubuntu? I'm assuming if you don't have a cd drive its a netbook, meaning your running 32 bit, but might as well verify.

If you have a USB stick (Atleast 1gb) this will be much easier. Steps are as follows:

_**STEP 1:**_
 
[LIST=1]
[*]Make sure you have free space on the Hard drive  :
**15 GB** for main linux partition (*it will take only **3 GB **for full clean install*) and 1 GB for swap
If you don&#8217;t have enough space, you can use **Gparted** (Linux partition manager) which is part of the installation process in ubuntu to resize current Windows partition. Or resize from windows.
[*]First download the .iso image from **[ubuntu.com mirros.]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download")**
[*] Download **[unetbootin]("http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/")**
[*] Plug your USB disk (1GB minimal)
[*] Run netbootin -> choose **DISK IMAGE ->** browse for the .iso file you have downloaded from ubuntu.
[/LIST]
 _**STEP 2 :**_
 
[LIST=1]
[*]Now after its finished, boot your computer
[*]Go into BIOS select **1st boot** **device** option  from **USB drive**
[*]Then save settings in BIOS
[*] Your pc will boot from the USB disk now
[/LIST]
 Ubuntu will load and start as a Live CD session , you can take **preview** of what UBUNTU has to offer.

_**STEP 3 :**_
 
[LIST=1]
[*]Now click the install icon on the desktop and **setup a partition** on you free space. You resize or create a partition.
Requirements is :
15 GB Linux partition (ext4/3/2)
1 GB swap partition
[*]Create those partitions and install. As you can see i installed XP , Windows 7, and Ubuntu on one hard drive.
If you have windows installed, choose GRUB not to install in MBR..
[/LIST]
 Thats it, now install these [must have programs]("http://freakass.co.cc/2009/05/18/ubuntu-904-must-have-programs/") from add/remove packages.
 If you are having problem with you laptop wifi/touchpad, maybe [this fix ]("http://freakass.co.cc/2009/05/30/ubuntu-workarounds/")will help


You can see the original instructions from here:
[URL="http://freakass.co.cc/2009/06/11/installing-ubuntu-904-without-burning-cd/"]
[/URL]
[http://freakass.co.cc/2009/06/11/installing-ubuntu-904-without-burning-cd/](http://freakass.co.cc/2009/06/11/installing-ubuntu-904-without-burning-cd/)



If you don't have a USB stick, but you have a windows partition, let me know and I'll give the steps for a different method thats a little bit more difficult.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2009-11-02
EDIT: Oops, didnt realize there was a second page.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-02
Try and rule out a few problems by::

1) running a memtest overnight. I dont care if 9.04 seemed to work okay, run it anyway. There is a memtest option in the boot menu.

2) try karmic from a liveCD first. If you dont have a CD then make a bootable USB stick and try that. If that does not freeze, and memtest checked out okay, we can look further.

---

