---
title: "10.10 Update manager problem, can't install new programs"
date: 2010-12-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mitchan on 2010-12-09
I'm a newbie and don't know much about codes and such, although I'm learning. 

I've recently had installed Ubuntu 10.10 (I had 7.10 before with Windows Vista in another partition, which was kept without a problem). 

When I tried to install the updates with Update Manager I got a window saying that some packages were from "non-authenticated sources", and they wouldn't install. They were different packages every time. I also had the same problem when I tried to install some programs (like VLC Media Player) through the Software Centre. 

Soon afterwards, whenever I opened the Update Manager I would get this error (translated from Spanish): 

"Could not calculate the update.
A problem impossible to solve has occured while calculating the update.
Inform of this as a failure of the package "update manager" and include the following:  'E:Error,pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated cuts, this may be caused by retained packages'"

Now when I open the update manager I get the list of updates and a message that advises a partial update, because a complete update is not possible. I tried to run the partial update, downloaded all the files, but there the program stopped and the partial update could not be done. 

Also, I'm not sure if this is related to the problem, whenever I click on "Documents", "Music", "Images", etc. buttons, instead of opening those windows the computer opens Rhythmbox music player instead. 

I've already tried some of the solutions advised in the forums, and in the #ubuntu chat, but so far nothing has solved this problem. 

Any ideas?

---

