---
title: "7.10 RAID 1 can't boot if one drive unplugged"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rihad on 2007-11-05
Hi,

I've installed 7.10 amd64 on a Intel Server System 1500 with 2 SAS drives, which unfortunately has a SW raid system incompatible with open OS', so I'm trying to use Linux mdadm. The first partition on both drives was created and marked as bootable, and raid autodetect. The installation goes well and the system boots ok on /dev/md0, and /proc/mdstat and mdadm -D show everything's  in sync. After shutting down the system and unplugging one of the drives -- it doesn't matter which -- the systems waits for 2-3 minutes at the "loading, please wait' prompt, then spits out some errors like "stdin: error 0" and then the output similar to what  happens when you run modprobe with no arguments, and some more "no such file or directory" regarding parts under the root fs (like /dev/ /sys/ /proc etc.), eventually dropping into a busybox shell.

I also tried running this on both drives, with no effect whatsoever.
> 
grub-install /dev/sda
grub
grub: device (hd0) /dev/sdb
grub: root (hd0,0)
grub: setup (hd0)
grub: quit


I don't know if it's relevant to the problem, but FreeBSD 6.2/7-BETA's gmirror runs fine in such a scenario. But ispconfig wants a Linux, so perhaps someone more knowledgeable can point me in the right direction? Thank you.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2007-11-05
You know, I do believe that Gutsy has a bug and what you observe is true: no boot from one disk undr raid1. I trust someone is working on this presently. You might consider fileing a bug report.

---

### Post by rihad on 2007-11-06
Wouldl I have better luck with an earlier version: Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn) ? Should I try it?

---

### Post by rihad on 2007-11-06
I've just followed up on this bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/157648](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/157648)

But my last question still holds as I need to get the job done asap.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2007-11-06
From memory, and it is failing fast, I do believe Feisty was okay with raid1 single drive failure.

---

### Post by rihad on 2007-11-06
Regarding running 7.10: rather than downgrading, is there any hotfix or workaround to get it to boot properly with the single drive, and keep working in degraded mode?

I've just tried Debian Etch on the same hardware: the OS doesn't even boot from the CD, dead-freezing somewhere in the middle.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2007-11-06
You know I'm sure there is, but I'm not too sure how to go about it.

I would install grub on the drive and then see how that went:

```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda[1] 
```

Now it would seem that the grub has to be put on a partition. Find out what the partitions are on the drive that is good using:
```

sudo fdisk -l
```

All this is going to require you mounting the good drive, going into the /boot/grub/memu.lst file and seeing what it says about where the drives were booting from. You may have done this already. Near the beginning of the file is a # kopt=root=<the drive's id>. Then a few lines later is the # groot=(hd0,0) or whatever. These are the items that are critical for the grub-install to know. Good luck.

If all this doesn't lead you into a bootable drive, I hope someone with more knowledge than I would jump in here.

---

