---
title: "Hardy overheating - is it being taken seriously?"
date: 2008-08-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hopkins on 2008-08-05
Hi,

I have been using Hardy as the main OS on my Thinkpad since its release, having previously only used v6s and v7s of Ubuntu for the purposes of evaluation.  My wife is the main user of this computer and I was very keen to see if she got on well with Ubuntu.  Gladly, she does, except for the daily crash due to overheating.  IMO, this invalidates any possible benefit over Windows, which is a great shame because I really would rather use Ubuntu.  Last night, I got home and found the light for the battery on the laptop flashing continuously, telling me that it is in a terrible state, no doubt as a result of the insane amounts of heat generated by the laptop running Ubuntu.  This damage is why I've finally got around to asking the question:

Is anyone on the Ubuntu team taking this overheating issue seriously?

When I search for the issue, I get find lots of posts and lots of users trying to propose work-arounds, but no official acknowledgement or evidence that it is being investigated.  It isn't even listed in the sticky post of this forum: "Known Hardy bugs and workarounds".

After a few months and a few hundreds of megabytes of downloads to no avail, I need to decide what to do.  This is either:

a) stick with Ubuntu because it will be fixed soon;
b) try another distro of Linux (if I can be bothered); or
c) go back to Windows.

Thanks in advance for any advice!

---

### Post by ProbablyX on 2008-08-05
Do you have a power management program?
That is a program that can handle the processor speed, fan levels etc.

In Kubuntu I use a program called KPowerSave however for Gnome (that is if you Use Ubuntu and not Kubuntu) theres a similar program called "Gnome Power Manager" which turns down the processor speed when it isnt used heavily (and turns it up when it is) which generates less heat.

Its available from synaptic and/or aptitude

There's also powertop. Powertop is command-line, but if you are comfortable with command line I'd give it a shot it's a great program that lets you manage programs and components that take power (=generate heat)

---

### Post by ProbablyX on 2008-08-05
(delete post)

---

### Post by linux_tech on 2008-08-05
What are the system specs of the computer?

---

### Post by Hopkins on 2008-08-05
Thanks for the replies.  I have tried Powertop and accepted all of the suggestions although with out too much success.  I have been meaning to ask though - are the changes that Powertop makes applied permenantly, or is it only until the reboot?

I think I have the Gnome Power Manager installed, but I'll have to check this evening.

The basic spec of the machine is a 2.0GHz Pentium M along with 1GB of RAM and a Radeon Mobility X600.  I don't use the GL desktop because the support for that graphics card is ropey!

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-08-05
did you submit the bug on launchpad or searched if others have that also?

---

### Post by mrmorris on 2008-08-05
I have to agree, Ubuntu does tend to run less efficiently than Windows across the board. I have even confirmed this with an external power meter, showing Ubuntu eating 3-4W more in idle (with aggressive power save of course) than on Windows. It also surprised me, that my E6750 is only able to scale down from 2.66GHz to 2.33GHz and 2.0GHz - not really a big save. Whether this latter issue is entirely CPU dependent, I don't know.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-08-05
My Thinkpad T60 runs with no heat issues, my co workers is running  a X22 with Xubuntu and has no heat issues, and my Dell Inspiron 8100 (7 years old now) runs with no heat issues. I'm not saying that your case is special because I've seen the posts on Luanchpad, but How long is the Laptop kept on, how many recharge cycle do you think the battery has seen. Most batteries will only last 2-3 years with constant use. And you could try another linux distro, OpenSuse (Novell is an IBM & HP partner) and Fedora are really well built alternatives, not to mention the countless others out there.

ALSO Take into account that a laptop is not supposed to be used on surfaces that cannot dissapate heat, like beds, laps, tables with table clothes. When was the las time you dusted the heat sink or the fans? May I suggest you go into your Bios and check if it displays temperatures, let it sit in BIOS for 1/2 hour and check the temp.

---

### Post by Hopkins on 2008-08-05
Thanks again for the replies.

The most appropriate launchpad bug that I found was this:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/223081](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/223081)

People have been comparing the temperatures when running with different kernels.

I've checked and I do have the Gnome Power Manager installed, but the GUI does not talk about CPU throttling, mainly about when to go into standby.

Incidentally, I've just added the system monitor to my panel and it is sitting on 100%.  If I open the System Monitor window and sort by CPU usage, processes are only consuming 30-40%.  I have also added the CPU Frequency Scaling Monitor which shows that it is sitting on the maximum 2Gz.

The laptop is located on a hard wooden table, so that shouldn't be the cause of the problem, and I moved straight from Windows where the fans were on the lowest speed most of the time and now they sit on maximum, suggesting that it is not a gradual physical build up of dust in the machine.

I've just tried running powertop again and accepting all the suggestions, but I still have 100% CPU usage.

---

### Post by mfaust731 on 2008-08-05
This sounds like a hardware issue to me, I would lean toward the dust build-up.

I have Hardy on all of my laptops and I have never had a simalar issue

---

### Post by Hopkins on 2008-08-08
I will certainly try to open and clean the laptop.

However, what does it mean when the small panel icon of System Monitor is sitting at 100% but only a fraction of that is used by processes?  Does that mean that the rest is being used by the kernal?  This would seem to be in line with the discussion around the launchpad bug that I linked to.

---

