---
title: ".mov files not working...."
date: 2007-04-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Drate on 2007-04-01
BTW, this is a repost of the question, but nobody even tried to answer the last time... i hope this is okay etiquette to ask again if I get no response the first time after a certain amount of time?

So i just tried to play a .mov file and it comes up, briefly flashes the first frame of the movie and gives an error about GStream general error or some such. I have installed various codecs via synaptic, apt-get, and easy-ubuntu. What's the deal?

BTW, it does try coming up in "Totem" by default, don't know if that's significant. Please help, thanks!

*EDIT*

Okay, so I opened it up in gxine and it kinda works, the audio cuts in and out sorta rythmically.

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-04-01
Usually, you don't make a second post asking the same thing as the first one.  If  one of your post doesn't get any replies after a period of time,  then you bump it.  This is the practice I have seen.  Enough of that though, let's work on your problem.

Now for .mov files.  Have you tried Mplayer or VLC.  Both those play .mov files for me just fine.  Might give them a try.

---

### Post by strabes on 2007-04-02
You'll have to install the w32codecs package. Make sure you have all the repositories enabled. Read this for how to do that: [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Edgy#How_to_add_extra_repositories](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Edgy#How_to_add_extra_repositories)

Once you have enabled those repositories, run this command in terminal:

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install w32codecs

For more info, read this page: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats)

Hope this helps.

---

