---
title: "7.04 Reverting to previous package 6.10 version"
date: 2007-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Yeuclid on 2007-05-02
I've been following a problem witth Devede and fuzzy noisy sound for a while and it seems to have been isolated to a fault in the 7.04 version of Mencode as the fault began when a new Mencoder was released with 7.04

Some people have worked around it by replacing the 7.04 version by the one from 6.10.

I don't know enough about Ubuntu to be able to do that just yet, and would be concerned about affecting other dependencies.

Can anyone tell me how to do that easily and safely, i.e. replace the 7.04 Mencoder version with the one from 6.10, and please don't tell me that I will have to recompile it.

I come from an XP and Windows background and I thought I'd look for a challenge in Ubuntu and Linux - I seem to have found that.

---

### Post by cwbar_1 on 2007-05-02
The best (and easiest) way to revert to an earlier package is to use Synaptic package manager.  Open the manager and search for the package in question. Once found, highlight the package and go to the menu item "Packages."  Then click on "Force Version."  Synaptic manager will then alert you to the packages that will be  added or removed.  Hope this helps.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-05-02
> **cwbar_1 said:**
> The best (and easiest) way to revert to an earlier package is to use Synaptic package manager.  Open the manager and search for the package in question. Once found, highlight the package and go to the menu item "Packages."  Then click on "Force Version."  Synaptic manager will then alert you to the packages that will be  added or removed.  Hope this helps.

If an earlier package is not available (because you no longer have the old repositories in the list), then you can [LIST=1]
[*]Manually download the old .deb package (from the old repository or wherever);
[*]Remove the package you want to replace with an old version;
[*]Install the old package;
[*]Use the "Lock Version" feature in Synaptic on the package.
[/LIST]

There are no guarantees that the old package will work (or be compatible with other dependencies), but I used this procedure to get around the issue I have with the Feisty nvidia-settings package not working (I replaced it with the Edgy version).

---

### Post by Yeuclid on 2007-05-03
Following up your suggestion, the "Force Version" in Synaptic option is greyed out.

Am I missing something here?

---

### Post by Goodson1974 on 2007-05-06
Hi all

Probably a daft question, but how do i find out which repository i need to use to get the old mencode package installed?

---

### Post by dfault312 on 2007-12-26
> **dcstar said:**
> If an earlier package is not available (because you no longer have the old repositories in the list), then you can [LIST=1]
[*]Manually download the old .deb package (from the old repository or wherever);
[*]Remove the package you want to replace with an old version;
[*]Install the old package;
[*]Use the "Lock Version" feature in Synaptic on the package.
[/LIST]


This is what I need to do, but I can't remove the package I want to replace (hal) without marking about 20 other things, including gnome-desktop, for synaptic to remove. Is there any way around this?

---

