---
title: "Problem with update manager. Help"
date: 2012-07-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BulgarianBoy on 2012-07-14
The problem comes after I update the computer. When I boot the laptop it takes me to a black window where it asks me to pick Ubuntu and Windows. Windows is on the very end and every time I have updated Ubuntu the computer has made a new partition(I think that is what it is called) that is recovery under the newer version of the updated Ubuntu. How can I remove the excess partitions?

---

### Post by Rexilion on 2012-07-14
Entries listed in the bootmanager (which is the 'menu' you are describing) are generated by Grub.

Entries don't correspond to partitions, they are just small bits of lines inside a file (/boot/grub/grub.cfg).

Each time you update your kernel, Ubuntu makes a backup of the old one. In order to boot this older kernel, the corresponding entries are being preserved and stored in a slightly different location.

This functionality (which is what it is), only takes space on your HD. No more.

---

### Post by Shadius on 2012-07-14
What version of Ubuntu are you running?

---

### Post by BulgarianBoy on 2012-07-15
> **Shadius said:**
> What version of Ubuntu are you running?

Hello my ubuntu is 10.04 LTS the Lucid Lynx.

I am just trying to remove some of the grub files there is to many.

---

### Post by Shadius on 2012-07-15
> **BulgarianBoy said:**
> Hello my ubuntu is 10.04 LTS the Lucid Lynx.

I am just trying to remove some of the grub files there is to many.

You can use [GRUB Customizer]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134")

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-07-15
> **BulgarianBoy said:**
> Hello my ubuntu is 10.04 LTS the Lucid Lynx.

I am just trying to remove some of the grub files there is to many.

Make sure you've backed up all your data before fiddling with grub.

---

### Post by BulgarianBoy on 2012-07-15
> **vasa1 said:**
> Make sure you've backed up all your data before fiddling with grub.

Okay Thanks for the help everyone.

---

