---
title: "9.0.4 Jaunty is Beautiful but ...."
date: 2009-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wilswong on 2009-04-29
I really loved the simplicity of the netbook version. and Everything installed as instructed.

Now the bad news.

My MBR got corrupted so much so the Eee PC 1000HD cannot start up with Windows.

And I can go into Ubuntu but the only way I can access the internet is via the Ethernet and not my wireless connection.

It just refused to 'handshake' with my AP under WPA & WPA2...a quick check with my other wireless laptop confirmed my pre shared key as correct.

I would have leave it at Ubuntu if not for the wireless.  So I reloaded with Windows and checked my hardware again and everything works fine.  I replug in my thumbdrive to try Ubuntu and the same story unfolds.

Gosh! So near yet so far!!

And we seriously need an uninstall Ubuntu panic button some where.

---

### Post by phinullfermata on 2009-04-29
You can actually really easily restore your windows MBR with either a windows recovery disk, or with the ms-sys package in ubuntu, for future reference.  Hope your wireless issues work out.

---

### Post by josel777 on 2009-04-29
I am also having wireless issues with Jaunty. The wireless light on my 1000HD is ON, but I can't see any wireless networks. Did you loaded additional packages to be able to run the wireless?

---

### Post by jacksaff on 2009-04-29
There seem to be a lot of problems with eeepcs and wireless on the default jaunty kernel. I have mine working now with a custom kernel from array.org
They do in fact have a jaunty repository but there is no information about it yet on the website. Lots of discussion on this here
[http://forum.eeeuser.com/index.php](http://forum.eeeuser.com/index.php)

Grub missing windows should be fixed by 
sudo grub-install

---

### Post by wilswong on 2009-04-29
> **phinullfermata said:**
> You can actually really easily restore your windows MBR with either a windows recovery disk, or with the ms-sys package in ubuntu, for future reference.  Hope your wireless issues work out.

Tried the recovery disc but the PC itself have issues when trying to get to the Recovery Console.

Really need the netbook for work so do not have the time to muddle with Ubuntu's wireless package.

I know this post comes after the fact...but do keep it coming so we can help others.

---

### Post by wilswong on 2009-04-29
> **josel777 said:**
> I am also having wireless issues with Jaunty. The wireless light on my 1000HD is ON, but I can't see any wireless networks. Did you loaded additional packages to be able to run the wireless?

Actually mine worked fine to the point of connection.  I can see networks and failed trying to connect to them via WPA/WPA2 security with the correct PSK.

---

