---
title: "same ol, same ol"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-10-23
okay final time I am going to post this, I just really REALLY need to resolve this and will ask anywhere to get answers.
Okay i got a big issue here and I wont be using ubuntu fulltime again until it is resolved.
Here is my issue:
On the gutsy live CD my monitor settings work, and I am able to boot up without any issues.
However with ubuntu gutsy installed my monitor settings do not work... period
every time I boot after grub is done loading as soon as my system is loading my monitor keeps on "please check PC display settings"
I thought that jotting the information from the live CD would help and here is what the live said about my hardware:
Monitor: Plug and play 800x600 85hz
Graphics card: Intel 915 using the experimental modsetting driver.
now with my installation I set my computer ON THE EXACT SAME SETTINGS, but I have the same issue...
plus when fdisk runs it goes into safe graphics mode and this impedes bootup and management...
So this issue needs resolving, I really need help here folks.

Here is what system> preferences> hardware information says about my graphics card:
82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller

and here is my monitor number:
HP Pavilion mx50, its a older monitor but is still alive and kicking.

I also posted the same thing [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588764")
and [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588718")
I really need help with this issue and will do anything to resolve it, including make the same topic a multitude of times as I really, REALLY need this issue fixed..
I dont care if this gets me into trouble with the the mods, admins or whoever...
I am desperate.

---

### Post by jimbob on 2007-10-23
I have no idea what the problem is but why don't you copy the xorg.conf from the live CD off onto a zip drive or somewhere and then load it in single user mode onto your installed copy and then try to start X and see if it works.  That might give you a place to start anyway.
&#65279;________________________________       
  If I can't be Mr. Root I won't play ...

[COLOR="Red"][SIZE="1"]*Registered Linux User #400396*[/SIZE][/COLOR]

... things should be done from the command line the way Nature intended ...

EDIT:  Guess you've tried that already - sorry ...

---

### Post by Denn1s on 2007-10-23
tried the intel driver? can you post the contents of your xorg.conf?

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-10-23
okay I got the xorg.conf off the disk and replaced the ones I found installed on the computer but its still not working...
here is what the xorg.conf says:
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"MX50"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"MX50"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "32x8"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

this is the same file without ANY edits from the live.
and yes i tried the intel driver, I pointed it at the intel 915 driver in the screen and graphics preferences and it still didnt work...

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-10-23
bump...

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-10-23
double bump

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-10-23
triple bump...

sorry but I need to keep this on the front page

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2007-10-23
If you need help right now, you might check the IRC channels and perhaps someone can walk through it with you.

---

### Post by seventyeights on 2007-10-23
According to [_hp's specs_]("http://72.14.209.104/search?q=cache:9MZTVmdwgnwJ:h10032.www1.hp.com/ctg/Manual/bph06493.pdf+pavilion+mx50+refresh&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=2&gl=us&client=firefox-a"), your refresh and resolutions seem to be wrong.

Go into xorg.conf (back it up first!) and in the Section "Monitor" change:
HorizSync 30-54
VertRefresh 60-85 (or you could try 47-100, I can't tell for sure.)

in Section "Screen" change:
Modes  "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"

As a last resort, change DefaultDepth to 16, though it probably doesn't matter.

Please let me know how this works.

Edit:
Also change /etc/usplash.conf to a lower resolution, 1024x768, or 800x600 to be totally safe.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-10-23
> **K.Mandla said:**
> If you need help right now, you might check the IRC channels and perhaps someone can walk through it with you.

yeh i dont get along with chatroom's im afraid

and i will try what you suggested seventyeights

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-10-23
alright I tried your suggestion seventyeights but it seems to be a half fix...
I get no errors during logout/reboot now as i got this error both during shutting down and logging on but now it still does it during boot up...

hmm...

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-10-23
bump...

---

### Post by seventyeights on 2007-10-23
Sorry, got stuck fscking  700g's.

Please update me on your current status. You have a problem with your boot screen, but you can see your desktop and logout process?

If this is the case, try knocking out the splash altogether and see what happens. You should be able to watch the plaintext bootup process
[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2
029468&postcount=2"]http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2029468&postcount=2[/URL]
> try pressing esc when grub first starts so that you can edit the kernel line.

highlight the kernel line and press e

then goto the end of the line and remove the word splash.

press enter then b

Oh by the way, I've observed another intel graphics card knock out my monitor during boot on one of my own machines. It may simply be an intel thing.

I'm quitting for the night, cya

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-10-24
I think i discovered the issue...
it is with usplash, I have found out that if you install other themes for usplash and re install the regular usplash theme then its fixed...
I should send this to bug reporting...

---

### Post by Denn1s on 2007-10-26
maybe you need to change the refresh rate during loading, at grub, try to add this at the line that starts with the word "kernel"

```
hsync=40 vsync=60
```
you can change the values and try again, add ir to /boot/grub/menu.lst if it works

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2007-10-26
Comment out the following line of the xorg.conf file by typing a # in front of it:

BusID "PCI:0:2:0"

So it looks like:

#BusID "PCI:0:2:0"

And that should fix it.

If you can't get in a GUI to do that, then press ALT+CTRL+F1. Then, type the command "sudo rm /tmp/X0-lock". Then "sudo vim /etc/X11/xorg.conf", and then press Insert to switch to edit mode, find the line, type the # in front of it, press escape, and then ":wq" to write the file, and then reboot.

The BusID line is 100% unnecessary in the xorg file, and it only causes problems. It causes problems for a large number of people and no matter what I do I can't convince the developers to remove it.

---

### Post by hellmanns on 2007-10-27
did you already tried to instal :

sudo aptitude install libgl1-mesa-dev  (maybe you'll need the i386 installation files)
sudo aptitude install libgl1-mesa-dri  (maybe you'll need the i386 installation files)

then at the "device" on your xorg.conf
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"


let us know. :-k


ps.: I have GMA900 here too

---

