---
title: "18.04lts Samba shares - permissions"
date: 2020-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-08-19
Created mount points for Samba shares. Changed owner & permissions on the mount points from root/root etc. to match the owners and permissions on the server.
Verified that they're correct.
Mounted the shares manually from the command line.
Checked the owner/permissions on the mounted shares- they're reverted back to root/root

The problem seems to be when trying  to run PHPStorm - can't write to share
SublimeText3 requests authentication and then saves changes

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-08-20
Less descriptions and more facts please.  Exactly what commands were run? What are the permissions seen from the server-side and from the client-side?

Samba runs as root. It has permissions that don't need to look like anything on the real file system.

Can't help with phpstorm - never touch the stuff.

Why use samba?  Why not use NFS, which supports native Unix permissions?

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-08-20
Samba is fine on the server - all the shares are mapped to drive letters on my Windows pc and no problems.
The reason I was trying to use the Samba shares on the new desktop was to keep it simple - I guess that didn't work!

 Not much to show in the way of commands - I changed the owner & permissions of the mount points to match the server - used mc to change & check. As noted they didn't stick.

Will forget Samba and try NFS and mark this solved

Just evaluating PHPStorm - I'd rather use SublimeText3 but coming from a Windows background  adding plugins is making me crazy :-) 

Have another question - I'll start a new thread.

Thanks

Frank

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-08-20
Windows is a great reason to use samba. NFS on windows is too much hassle. I'd use samba if win is involved.
There are lots of threads here about samba and win10. Find those and follow any that s from May 2020 or later.

Morbius1's instructions:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2435292&p=13925468#post13925468](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2435292&p=13925468#post13925468)

```

credentials=filename|cred=filename
       specifies  a  file  that contains a username and/or password and
       optionally the name of the workgroup. The format of the file is:

          username=value
          password=value
          domain=value

       This is preferred over having passwords in plaintext in a shared 
       file,  such  as  /etc/fstab . Be sure to protect any credentials
       file properly.
```

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-08-20
Take a look at the "force user" and "force group" options in Samba. They allow you to interact with the shares at the operating system level using the specified user/group regardless of the credentials used to log into the server.  From the man page for smb.conf:

> 
force user (S)

    This specifies a UNIX user name that will be assigned as the default user for all users connecting to this service. This is useful for sharing files. You should also use it carefully as using it incorrectly can cause security problems.

    This user name only gets used once a connection is established. Thus clients still need to connect as a valid user and supply a valid password. Once connected, all file operations will be performed as the "forced user", no matter what username the client connected as. This can be very useful.

    In Samba 2.0.5 and above this parameter also causes the primary group of the forced user to be used as the primary group for all file activity. Prior to 2.0.5 the primary group was left as the primary group of the connecting user (this was a bug).

    Default: force user =

    Example: force user = auser 


---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2020-08-21
> Created mount points for Samba shares. Changed owner & permissions  on the mount points from root/root etc. to match the owners and  permissions on the server.
Changing permissions of a mount point before the object ( internal partition, samba share, etc .. ) is mounted has no affect on the permissions after the mount. 
> Checked the owner/permissions on the mounted shares- they're reverted back to root/root
By default cifs will always mount with owner = group = root and writeable only to root.

CIFS is a virtual filesystem so you can make the "view" of that share from a client perspective pretty much anything you want it to be. Examples for a guest accessible samba share:

This will mount with me as owner/group instead of root.
```
sudo mount -t cifs //server/share /mountpoint -o guest,uid=morbius,gid=morbius
```
This will mount with owner / group = me but writeable to everyone on the client system:
```
sudo mount -t cifs //server/share /mountpoint -o guest,uid=morbius,gid=morbius,dir_mode=0777,file_mode=0666,nounix
```

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-08-21
Thanks for the information. I've decide to use NFS if possible.
I'll come back to this if I don't get them working either :-)
Thanks
Frank

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-08-21
> **Frank P said:**
> Thanks for the information. I've decide to use NFS if possible.
I'll come back to this if I don't get them working either :-)
Thanks
Frank

I'd love to learn how to use NFS with Windows in a way that didn't suck. Last time I did was in the 1990s and we needed a full-time admin just to maintain the userid mappings every day for the 6K users.  

Under Win7 I tried to get NFS working, but always failed. It wasn't included with "home" and the "Ultimate" license version never worked. Perhaps it was having too much Unix knowledge and prior history from 10+ yrs earlier that got in my way?

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-08-21
I'm not going using NFS with windows. I tried that about 2 years ago but changed to Samba.
My windows pc uses Samba to connect to my ubuntu server and it works well.
I'm now trying to get my new Ubuntu pc to talk to the server. I've given up on Samba for it and will use NFS.
I'll mark this thread solved to close it. I started a new one re: NFS
Thanks
Frank

---

