---
title: "20.10 (Groovy Gorilla) Known Bugs and Workarounds"
date: 2020-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2020-10-23
Groovy Gorilla (20.10) was released Thursday 22nd October 2020. Please post your tips and work-a-rounds here. Please do not post problems or ask for help in this thread.

---

### Post by KJKJKJ on 2020-10-27
**Problem**

I'm running 20.10 on a Raspberry Pi Model 4 and it's amazing how much works!  Unfortunately audio is slightly broken, there's a talking underwater quality, choppy might be a better description.
[B]
Workaround[/B]

I added a basic USB audio dongle, cost about £7 on Amazon, and took analogue audio from it. The sound is as good as any such dongle can be, without the annoyances of  the internal sound card.

---

### Post by Acharn on 2021-06-23
My internetconnection was very unreliable. Sometimes it would connect to the internet, often it would not. I found a couple of posts on other sites about how to fix the problem, but they didn't work for me. They did, however, point out that the file /etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml is malformed. I do not understand why it worked sometimes, but I found the way to properly set it up at <a href="https://www.serverlab.ca/tutorials/linux/administration-linux/how-to-configure-networking-in-ubuntu-20-04-with-netplan/">How to Configure Networking in Ubuntu 20.04 with Netplan</a>. It's important to remember to enter the command, "sudo netplan apply." I was also surprised to discover that my ethernet connection is not eth0, as I kind of expected, it's enp2s0, so do use "ip a" as the article suggests.

---

