---
title: "1M$ question about broadcast messages"
date: 2009-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sblanzio on 2009-01-31
Hi there!
I've been looking for a solution in the last 2 hours, and i can't believe it seems there isn't an available answer.

We all know it is possible to send console broadcast message through the "wall" command.

What i'm asking is: is there a way to show broadcast messages on gui? (gnome, xfce, kde...)

I mean something like a popup window or a hint cloud just like the one "new upgraded packages to download".

I guess this should be made by a deamon waiting for broadcast messages and showing a proper popup, but i'm very surprised that doesn't exist anything like that already. do you know anything more?

Can you help please?
tyvm!

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-01-31
> **sblanzio said:**
>  What i'm asking is: is there a way to show broadcast messages on gui? (gnome, xfce, kde...)


Perhaps this is what you want :
[http://freshmeat.net/projects/linpopup/](http://freshmeat.net/projects/linpopup/)

There's also xmessage, but that's probably hard to use over a network.

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-01-31
Have a look at this:
[http://osdir.com/ml/linux.redhat.fedora.desktop/2004-09/msg00036.html](http://osdir.com/ml/linux.redhat.fedora.desktop/2004-09/msg00036.html)
It's quite old but apparently still relevant...
A bit of googling suggests that it is possible to use kwrited in Gnome to receive wall messages...

---

### Post by sblanzio on 2009-01-31
thank you very much! 
i looked at both linpopup and kwrited. 

Unfortunately linpopup doesn't fits well for the job since it is something more like a IM than broadcast listener.

Kwrited seems to not be supported nor included anymore in any deb-like distro. I guess it wasn't working good? However I found out it's used in Backtrace3 so maybe this would be a good path to walk on.

the acpi dbus mode seems a little complex to me. however i'll try to understand if it is come to an application release.

if anybody has any other info i'll appreciated that.

tnx again!
sblanzio

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-02-01
I just started work on a daemon that will listen for messages and forward them over dbus to be displayed by the notification-daemon

I'll post back here as soon as I have something usable...

---

### Post by sblanzio on 2009-02-01
hey this is wondeful! :)

thank you very much in advance!
sblanzio

---

### Post by crc294 on 2009-02-03
Hi guys,

I've been looking for a solution to this problem, and am also surprised something doesn't already exist. I found the command [FONT="Courier New"]zenity[/FONT], which opens a GTK popup window. Perfect, except it opens it on your display, even if you are SSH'd in ....

If only there was some way we could get it to pop up on a different terminal.

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-02-03
I'm making good progress. I've got a daemon that listens on a pty for messages and sends everything it receives to the notification daemon (via dbus). It's not very useful at the moment though, because the messages generated by wall contain all sorts of non-printing ascii characters (carriage returns and bells in particular) which don't play nicely with the notifications.

I'll have to find a way to clean up the messages a bit, comment and tidy up my code and at least write a makefile before I upload anything here...

I'm going out tonight, and I'll probably have to get some sleep today, so it will probably be ready for your enjoyment/criticism sometime on Thursday.

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-02-07
Well, it seems to work correctly now. I'm not quite ready to release anything just yet, I have to go through the code a couple more times to make sure there aren't any nasty surprises, simplify the build process and perhaps make a .deb. But here's a screenshot in case anyone is curious...

---

### Post by crc294 on 2009-02-08
Looks great! Looking forward to the release.

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-02-11
Ok, version 1.0 is now available from my Launchpad PPA. Binary packages are available for Hardy and Intrepid. 

To install it add a line like:
```
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/heindsight/ppa/ubuntu hardy main
```
to /etc/apt/sources.list (of course if you're running Intrepid you should change the hardy above to intrepid)

Next, (if you trust me and want avoid getting warnings about downloading from an untrusted source), do
```
sudo apt-key adv --recv-keys --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com  20E24BBCE26A342F499DB38FF75FF3CAFCA8EEF0
```

Now you can install writed using
```
sudo apt-get install writed
```

Now, you can run writed by just using the command:
```
writed
```
It will immediately go into the background, so you can use the command
```
w
``` to make sure it is actually running. You should see a line similar to:
```
heindsig pts/4    :0.0             22:18   23:13m  0.14s  0.14s writed
```
Now you should be able to send yourself messages using write or wall, for example according to the w output above, I have writed running on /dev/pts/4 so I can send myself a message using
```
write heindsight pts/4
```

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-02-13
I should mention, for now the original source code for this release can be downloaded from:
 [https://launchpad.net/~heindsight/+archive/ppa/+files/writed_1.0.orig.tar.gz](https://launchpad.net/~heindsight/+archive/ppa/+files/writed_1.0.orig.tar.gz)

I'll be putting the latest source up somewhere soon. Will post an update when I do. I hope to bring out an improved version soon with features such as logging and a config file allowing you to customize things like where on your screen messages appear and how long they stay on screen.

---

### Post by sblanzio on 2009-02-15
thank you so very much! i will let you know as soon as i try that! ^^

---

### Post by crc294 on 2009-02-17
heind,

It works great. Thanks for the effort. No problems installing or running here

---

### Post by sblanzio on 2009-06-10
hey! your software is great, but unfortunately the notification deamon is changed in gnome since 9.04 and now it doesn't seem to work anymore.
Do you have any idea / plan on how to make it compatible with the new one?

Of course you already did a great job and it is enough if you just give me a hint ;)

Thank you very much

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-06-11
> **sblanzio said:**
> hey! your software is great, but unfortunately the notification deamon is changed in gnome since 9.04 and now it doesn't seem to work anymore.
Do you have any idea / plan on how to make it compatible with the new one?

Of course you already did a great job and it is enough if you just give me a hint ;)

Thank you very much

Hi, thank you for pointing this out. I'm still using 8.04 and I have no intention of upgrading any time soon. As soon as I have a chance, I'll  get 9.04 running on a VM and see if I can fix it.

I'll try to get to it in the next week. I started a new job recently, so unfortunately I don't have nearly as much time as before to work on this. I would appreciate it if you could email me a more detailed description of the problem...

If you want to try to fix it yourself, I'd suggest looking at the source (especialy src/notifier.[ch] - that's where you'll find the code responsible for setting up and closing down the DBUS connection and creating and sending messages to the notification daemon) and in the changelogs for the notification daemon to see what changes have been made that may have broken things.

---

