---
title: "12.04 Backports"
date: 2013-01-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Randymanme on 2013-01-30
Hello, 

I have both Ubuntu 12.04 and 12.10 installed on my computer (bare metal)  I like the looks and features of 12.10 more than 12.04, but 12.10 seems to me to be a bit unstable.  So I'm wondering how much of 12.10 can be backported to 12.04 without actually upgrading it?  It would seem to me that I could at least make Precise look like Quetzal.

Thanks.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-01-30
all you need to do is : activating the  quantal-backports repo into synaptic.

but i've tried several times to use that "backports" repo, and have quite always had dependencies issues (looks like that repo is not enough tested)

i'm surprised you found quantal a bit instable, works fine here (except some graphics drivers troubles still not yet fully fixed, but nothing scary)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-01-30
^ I'm sure dino99 meant to say *precise*-backports repo; trying to use quantal-backports in precise would be silly. :)

You could also try using Unity PPA to update the desktop environment to the newest version: [https://launchpad.net/~unity-team/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~unity-team/+archive/ppa)

Of course, doing so might introduce the instability you are trying to avoid. If it's a production system, then it's prudent to test on a spare box.

---

### Post by Randymanme on 2013-02-16
):PHello, all,

Can't install Unity 6 on Precise because of dependency issues.  I was satisfied enough with Quetzal that I just went ahead and upgraded Precise.

I don't know precisely what happened, but Precise upgraded to Quetzal is far better (in my estimation) than a fresh install of Quantum Quetzal.  I suppose it must be some pre-existing packages.  especially NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel module and VDPAU library (tested).

I'm presently stuck using a cheap 17-inch CRT monitor.  Until now, I'd thought that it was not capable of  resolutions higher 1024 X 764 (4:3).  Well not now.  Quetzal installed at 1280X1024 (5:4).  Now everything fits on the screen just fine.

I'm just tickled to death.

---

