---
title: "d????????? ? ?              ?                       ?                ?DIRECTORY/"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rperigo on 2011-10-19
This happened after I deleted the directories with windows on a shared external HD. Now I cant get rid of the directory name. Example 

ls -l DIRECTORY

 ls: cannot access DIRECTORY: Input/output error


ls -l

d????????? ? ?              ?                       ?                ? DIRECTORY/

The shell cant find any information about the file so what happened and how can I delete this. Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-19
Hi rperigo. Welcome to the forums.

Could you post the results of these commands:
```
pwd

ls ..

df -h .
```
Please paste your results using th # tags (available when you replay).

Regards.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-10-19
What filesystem is on the external drive?  NTFS?  If so, run chkdsk from Windows and see if that helps.

On the unlikely chance that your external has an ext2/3/4 filesystem, use the fsck command in Linux to repair the drive.

If the problem remains, you can try running ntfsfix from Linux, but be sure to back up the external drive first.  You'll need to install the **ntfsprogs** package to use ntfsfix.

---

### Post by rperigo on 2011-10-19
Thank you for the response. I will follow your instructions:


$ pwd
Code:
---------
/media/Iomega_HDD
---------

$ ls ..
Code:
---------
Iomega_HDD
---------

$ df -h .
Code:
---------
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sdc1             466G  353G  113G  76% /media/Iomega_HDD
---------

> What filesystem is on the external drive? NTFS? If so, run chkdsk from Windows and see if that helps.

$ df -T 

The above command says that the HD is fuseblk. So that means ntfs right? I thought this was a FAT partition but this is definitively not?

> If the problem remains, you can try running ntfsfix from Linux, but be sure to back up the external drive first. You'll need to install the ntfsprogs package to use ntfsfix.

Thank you for that.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-19
That looks very much like there's some corrupted data: the disk's 76% full, but you can't see anything.

SeijiSensei's advice is sound. I would check the drive, preferable on Windows.

Regards.

---

