---
title: "12.04. Swap on USB drive instead of HDD, can I?. Acer ZG5"
date: 2013-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zemega on 2013-05-12
Hi. I'm thinking of installing Xubuntu 12.04 in an Acer ZG5. It still has its old HDD, its slow Acer cut some corner in it. It can only have 1.5 GB RAM, again Acer could have make it make it 2GB max, but they cut some corner in it. It has XP, I'm planning to make it dual boot until April next year when XP get axed. on the laptop, I put in a USB drive (SanDisk Fit). In XP I set the pagefile in the HDD to be zero and use pagefile in the USB instead. In theory this is equivalent to ReadyBoost in Win 7. My friend said there are some improvement (i know its subjective).

But can the same idea be used in Xubuntu? I will make it dual boot. The USB will stay plugged in forever. After installation or during installation I will set no swap space in the HDD, and set swap space in USB drive. Is this a good idea? I will ask about implementing it later. I will probably used GParted to do this. Probably 1 partition for Windows, 1 partition shared data, and 1 partition Xubuntu. I know theoretically HDD swap is faster than USB swap, but not this hard drive (plus its old).

PS: Acer did produce ZG5 with SSD, it was PATA SSD, and the  SSD are faulty on top of it.I don't trust Acer with their cheap models anymore. It does say maximum 2GB RAM, but it has 512 MB onboard soldered, so you can only add 1 GB RAM, it will not boot up if you put in 2GB RAM. Or if you can find the 'elusive' 1.5GB RAM.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-05-12
Are you installing Xubuntu to hard drive and just swap on USB?

i prefer swap and entire system (grub, swap) all be on one drive, so when the other drive fails I can still change BIOS boot order and boot something. But data is on various drives. And I prefer an install of Ubuntu on every drive even my flash drives. Larger flash drives have a full install, small ones just have grub & an ISO.

USB port will be the speed limit but compared to a laptop with a 5400RPM drive may not be bad. I boot a full Ubuntu install for testing on a flash drive which is slower still and it is functional.

My laptop only has 1.5GB of RAM and works fine. I do use the 64 bit version without issue although most say you need more RAM. I try not to load too many larger apps at once but occasionally screen goes grey for a second or two so I know it is using swap. I do use gnome-panel not Unity.

       32-bit vs. 64-bit Ubuntu 13.04 Linux Performance with only 1GB of RAM & most tests better with 64bit
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_x86_1304&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_x86_1304&num=1)

---

### Post by zemega on 2013-05-12
I'm not sure whether that Acer ZG5 is capable of 64 bit. I will post back later. The only programs needed are OpenOffice (for its great compatibility with Microsoft Office), WPS Office (beta), PAUP (in wine 1.4.1), MEGA (in wine 1.4.1) and Mr. Bayes (native). I think 32 bit Xubuntu will be better. There might be some occasional Windows program that is needed by my friend, mostly research tools insisted by the team supervisor.

I do plan on installing Xubuntu on harddrive and swap on USB. Although it says 5400RPM, in reality when I tested it before, it falls below 5400prm standard (previous Acer cheap policy I guess). That is why I think it will be better to use swap on a USB drive. Its really short-term measure before the harddisk fails or XP got axed first.

---

