---
title: "[SOLVED] Wubi Ubuntu 8.10 Emachine D2880 Blank Screen after Login"
date: 2008-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Steve00 on 2008-11-16
I have tried installing Wubi on a D2880 Emachine:
2.67 gigahertz Intel Celeron
1016 Megabytes Installed Memory
Intel(R) 82845G/GL/GE/PE/GV Graphics Controller
80G Harddrive
XP Service Pack 2

I've tried installing from the Live CD as well as downloading and installing from [http://wubi-installer.org/](http://wubi-installer.org/)

When booting into Ubuntu, grub allows me to select Ubuntu...it goes thru the usual boot routine and allows me to enter my username and password. Ubuntu then goes to a light orange colored screen and stops. I can move the cursor with the mouse but nothing else. Hard boot required from there.

I did select the kernel recovery option and tried all options. Nothing worked.

I searched the forums here and learned that emachines don't play nice with acpi...I've tried various of those noacpi tweaks shown on the forum including this one:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=28677&highlight=noacpi+emachine](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=28677&highlight=noacpi+emachine)

Most of the tweaks suggested entering code upon install...however, all of these suggestions appear to relate to an actual dual boot installation of Ubuntu and do not appear to apply to using Wubi.

Any suggestions on how to go from here would be appreciated.

Thanks.

--Steve

---

### Post by Steve00 on 2008-11-16
A bit more fiddling and I discovered that I could start a failsafe xterm. From there I could start things like Nautilus and see my hard drive including the Win XP directories and could start firefox and get out to the internet.

However, I could not start Gnome ... I tried 'startx', which responded with /home/owner/.Xauthority not writable with several other messages about an error in locking authority file

and, I tried 'gnome-session&' which responded with WARNING**: Cannot open display.

Interestingly, once I started up the failsafe xterm I got the default Ubuntu wallpaper....just no gnome.

Any suggestions on where to go from here?

Edited to note that I did try sudo gnome-session& ... all that got me was a screen that flickered from black to gray to finally black with no cursor.

---

### Post by Marcus Derekus on 2008-11-17
Try booting into recovery mode and run xfix 

if that doesn't work post the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by Steve00 on 2008-11-17
Thanks! Ran xfix...no effect. Here is xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Marcus Derekus on 2008-11-17
try running   **sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-i810**

---

### Post by Steve00 on 2008-11-19
Thanks for the help. I tried that and got:

Package xserver-xorg-video-i810 is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or is only available from another source
However the following packages replace it:
xserver-xorg-video-intel

So, what the heck,

ran

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel

and, got:

xserver-xorg-video-intel is already the newest version
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

---

### Post by Marcus Derekus on 2008-11-19
Ok, new plan.

I think compiz is causing the problem

Try rebooting into recovery mode but instead of running **xfix** choose the **root terminal** option.

type the following command.

```

sudo apt-get remove compiz

```

Then type:

```

sudo apt-get remove compiz-core

```

Now type: **exit** to leave terminal then choose the **resume** option.

Hope this works!

---

### Post by flameproof on 2008-11-20
I tried to install the "normal" 8.10 on this system:

1.7 gigahertz Intel Celeron
512 Megabytes Installed Memory
Intel(R) 82845GL Graphics Controller (on board)
80G Harddrive
Ubuntu 8.04 still on HDD

Effect is the same. I can install it up to the login, and can go through the login procedure - but then end at the same pale screen a user above.

Sidenote: I can also not run 8.10 from the CD. 

More strange: 8.04 stopped working correctly 10 days ago. I can go up to the desktop with all icons and everything looks fine. But when I click any desktop icon (Firefox, pidgin) nothing happens for a moment, then the screen will change to just the 8.04 wallpaper (the brownish bird), then a moment later the icons and task panel come back as before. 

I guess it's related to the 845GL video.

Right now I presume the PC has no working internet connection.

---

### Post by flameproof on 2008-11-20
This worked for me too:

sudo apt-get remove compiz
sudo apt-get remove compiz-core

---

### Post by Steve00 on 2008-11-22
> **Marcus Derekus said:**
> Ok, new plan.

I think compiz is causing the problem

....

Hope this works!

That did it! Thanks!

--Steve

---

### Post by vedekandy on 2008-11-28
I just registered here just to say "Thanks" to the person who suggested removing compiz - this was happening on an old Dell tower (around 5 years old)  that I decided to try installing 8.10 on.  Have to say this is the first time I've had any kind of problem after installing it on 4-5 different machines!  Removing compiz worked like a charm and it boots up just fine now.

Thanks for saving me a major headache getting this working :D

---

### Post by AndrewTheArt on 2008-12-23
I made a blog post about this for posterity -- 

**[Blank screen on startup after installing Ubuntu 8.10? Try this fix]("http://andrewtheart.blogspot.com/2008/12/blank-screen-on-startup-after.html")**

---

### Post by ichimonban on 2008-12-23
Thank you for your solution. I was bashing my head against a wall for quite a while before finding this thread.

in case someone else has this machine,
I have a Compaq Evo 2.3 GHz, 1Gig RAM, 40Gig Maxtor, and mobo intel video.

Worked like a charm.

Micah Ford
[UrbanDezign.com]("http://urbandezign.com")

---

### Post by kennyja on 2008-12-25
Thanks!!

I was having identical problems with my Emachine T1862. Same builtin video.

Thanks so much for your help!

kennyja

---

### Post by stussy on 2008-12-26
Thanks, I was having the same problem with a Dell Optiplex GX260

---

### Post by stussy on 2008-12-26
I'm new to Linux so I thought i'd ask first, should I re-install compiz now?

---

### Post by bigbaraboom on 2009-01-02
Thanks so much, great line of code, for those that need it, i hope you find this thread. :)

---

### Post by Prom1 on 2009-01-29
> **stussy said:**
> Thanks, I was having the same problem with a Dell Optiplex GX260

I have the exact same machine and I think our configurations are similar but for me Wubi_v8.10 doesn't get past the command prompt screen during installation of the reboot into Ubuntu shell. I'm on v8.04 which still works as perfectly as before.

---

### Post by Mithral on 2009-02-09
What if we have Kubuntu installed?Does the command change?
Because I typed sudo apt-get purge compiz compiz-core 
but it prompted me that there is no compiz package...What should I do?

---

### Post by wdoerner on 2009-02-11
I'm having the same problem.  I have used the command
> sudo apt-get purge compiz compiz-core
and both
> sudo apt-get remove compiz
sudo apt-get remove compiz-core
on differet resets, but neither have worked.  Also tried
> sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-i810
but no luck there, either.  I can login, but all I get is the default color with a blank screen.  I've tried to repair the packages with the updates, but it doesn't produce any effect.  I'm on a dual-boot with Win XP installed first and Wubi used to install Ubuntu afterwards.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by Mithral on 2009-02-11
I really don't know what I did...but it worked..I have Kubuntu installed with wubi...I tried a lot of things...What I suggest is uninstall,reinstall and when it fistrly prompts you to press escape with countdown for 3 seconds,press it and run safe mode.After that I think it will be fine...(I can't really recall, but I have the impression that I pressed escape after the 2nd reboot when the countdown was for 9 seconds..)

---

### Post by aaronhahn777 on 2009-03-14
I could just kiss you!  thanks so much!:D

---

### Post by lavi17 on 2009-03-17
Thanx it worked for me too .... :)

---

