---
title: "I.m a total noob, how do I stop panel at left side from moving out?"
date: 2012-04-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Goodgosh on 2012-04-04
Hi there, since Linux has become more accessible I decided to put Ubuntu on my laptop and I like the fast boot and shutdown.

I've only had it a couple of days so I don't really know what else I like.  One thing that's bugging me is when I'm using Firefox and I go to minimize the screen/click the File button or click on a Bookmark in the Toolbar up on the left hand side the Ubuntu panel with Home, Terminal etc pops out and I have to wait for it to disappear before I carefully move the mouse back up there again.

Can I change this so that it doesn't move automatically please?

Thanks very much for any advice

---

### Post by Bill Z on 2012-04-04
This is a good question.  It bugged me so much that I went back to 11.4.  I think 11.4 actually runs faster and I can get around in it faster.  Sometimes the new 3D look isn't desired.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-04-04
> **Goodgosh said:**
> Hi there, since Linux has become more accessible I decided to put Ubuntu on my laptop and I like the fast boot and shutdown.

I've only had it a couple of days so I don't really know what else I like.  One thing that's bugging me is when I'm using Firefox and I go to minimize the screen/click the File button or click on a Bookmark in the Toolbar up on the left hand side the Ubuntu panel with Home, Terminal etc pops out and I have to wait for it to disappear before I carefully move the mouse back up there again.

Can I change this so that it doesn't move automatically please?

Thanks very much for any advice

Check the links in my sig for Unity guide.

I have my launcher set to never hide. Plenty of options to choose from.

---

### Post by r-senior on 2012-04-04
You could just have it out all the time. That's the default setting for 12.04 and that's the way I've always preferred to use it.

What version are you running? 11.10?

---

