---
title: ".bash_profile not working"
date: 2007-06-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by therapiekind on 2007-06-30
Hi all,

it seems my ~/.bash_profile seems to not properly work when getting executed. It looks like this:

```
# include .bashrc if it exists
if [ -f ~/.bashrc ]; then
    . ~/.bashrc
fi

# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
# last two lines are added by me
if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
    PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
    echo "inside"
fi

# export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
```

When executing it, $PATH isn't modified (but the echo gets printed). Funnily enough when adding to the PATH by simply executing the "PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin" in terminal, it works just fine.

Any ideas why this is happening?

---

### Post by keithweddell on 2007-06-30
Don't know but it seems to work if you put it in .bashrc.  No idea why.

Keith

---

### Post by therapiekind on 2007-06-30
Thanks for the reply, but this isn't working either. Pretty strange ...

---

### Post by GeeZor on 2007-06-30
```
# include .bashrc if it exists
if [ -f ~/.bashrc ]; then
    . ~/.bashrc
fi

# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
# last two lines are added by me
if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
    PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
    echo "inside"
fi

# export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
```

i realy hope the last # is here for some reason... if not, get rid of it..
it prevents the PATH script variable to be propagated to an enviroment variable..
so make script like so:
```
# include .bashrc if it exists
if [ -f ~/.bashrc ]; then
    . ~/.bashrc
fi

# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
# last two lines are added by me
if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
    PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin ; export PATH
    echo "inside"
fi

# export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
```

---

### Post by therapiekind on 2007-06-30
The last (commented out) line was just a hangover of some testing. I don't exactly know what "export" does (as I don't know many other things), but I can imagine. So I tried with and without it.

Anyway, your solution fails as well. :(

---

### Post by GeeZor on 2007-06-30
Try this...

```
# include .bashrc if it exists
if [ -f ~/.bashrc ]; then
    . ~/.bashrc
fi

# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
# last two lines are added by me
if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
    PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
    echo "inside"
fi

PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
```


found this here...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2904755](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2904755)

# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
PATH=~/bin:"${PATH}"
fi

PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin

---

### Post by therapiekind on 2007-06-30
Ok, kinda sorted it out, thank to the pointer to the other thread.

It works when putting the stuff into .bashrc, like Keith suggested. But only after opening a new terminal, like one of the post in the other thread suggested.

But it seems to be rather a workaround. I'd be happier if I knew why it's not working with .bash_profile.

Still confused, but thanks!

---

### Post by McNils on 2007-07-01
> **therapiekind said:**
> 
But it seems to be rather a workaround. I'd be happier if I knew why it's not working with .bash_profile.


I think the problem is that you do not start a loginshell. 

When starting a loginshell the ~/.bash_profile is execuded. According to the man page the files ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile are also executed (if they exist). Make sure that you dont reset  PATH in ~/.profile.

When starting an interacive shell ~/.bashrc is executed.

Look at the bash man page for more info.

---

### Post by therapiekind on 2007-07-01
It should work when I execute .bash_profile manually via terminal. But it doesn't.

Btw, I don't have .profile or .bash_login in my home file, they can't be the reason. Only .bashrc should get executed by .bash_profile, but it doesn't get executed either. I tried putting a echo into .bashrc, it doesn't print when I execute .bash_profile (which then should execute .bashrc). It prints when executing .bashrc directly.

Can anyone follow? :???:

---

### Post by argux on 2007-07-06
Is this just a part of the file or is that the complete thing? I don't know a lot about this, but I would try adding 

```
#!/bin/bash
```

on the first line and see if it works. Also in this part:

```
# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
# last two lines are added by me
if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
    PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
    echo "inside"
fi
```

If I'm not mistaken, you're not really doing anything. It says: "If directory ~/bin exists, set this PATH and print 'inside'", but you're only setting it within the script, not to the environment. You need to 'export' it:

```
if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
    [COLOR="Red"]export[/COLOR] PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
    echo "inside"
fi
```

Now, the last line ( PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin ) does the exact same thing as the above (setting the variable *only* within the script), but this time without checking for the directory, so checking for the existance of the directory in the first command is useless, because you're setting the variable here anyway.

So, what I would recommend is either add 'export' on the first command and erase the last line, or (preferably) do this:

```
# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
# last two lines are added by me
if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
    PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
    echo "inside"
fi

export [COLOR="#ff0000"]PATH=$PATH[/COLOR]
```

Keep in mind that I'm no expert, but I'm pretty sure that this works.

---

### Post by peterx14 on 2007-07-07
Hi, I just hit this exact same problem also. As I understand it, the problem is that .bash_profile isn't executed *only* when starting a terminal through Gnome... but I have no idea why this has been changed or why it is inconsistent with other Linux distros. I really think someone from Ubuntu should explain!! :D

Anyway... I think I have found the solution here:
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/1770](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/1770)

The solution is:

 * Option a gnome terminal window
 * Click on Edit / Current Profile
 * Click on the Title and Command tab
 * Check the box labeled "Run command as a login shell"

And thereafter, any new terminal you create will execute .bash_profile.  You don't even need to change you .bash_profile file from it's default; it doesn't seem to need an **export** in it... although perhaps this would still be useful for any sub-shells that get created? I'm no expert, so hopefully someone else will jump in here.

Hope that helps.

Peter.

---

### Post by scxtt on 2007-07-07
McNils is right ...

that's why 99.9% of .bash_profiles will source .bashrc ...

.bash_profile = sourced for a login shell (either from a local tty, or via ssh)
.bashrc = sourced for non-login shells, generally in X

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-07
Once an environment variable is **export**ed, it is not necessary to re-export again in subsequent startup profiles.  PATH is exported already, typically this is done in a global /etc/profile or equivalent.

Whether a terminal session is considered a login shell is open for interpretation, and subject to implementors choice.  Consider that when you login via the GUI, you have logged in once.  Should additional terminal windows be considered more logins ? Many feel these are just terminal windows, and the result of a **who** or **last** command should show a single login.  Others feel each terminal window should be a login.

Both are valid positions: best advice is to consider using login startup scripts for things that should happen just once upon login, and other startup profile scripts for doing things that should occur in every shell.  As I mentioned in some previous post, this ambiguity has been around for 20 years, and it wont' be going away anytime soon.  Unix/Linux allows you enormous flexibility and customization.  It would be best to give up the belief that there should be one way of doing things - it won't happen.

MrC

---

