---
title: ".bash_profile doesn't work"
date: 2010-07-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xenoplant on 2010-07-12
em... not sure I did everything right, so that's what I did, going by [this book]("http://www.linuxcommand.org/wss0020.php") :

created .bash_profile in ~/
added *alias ***l='ls -l'** to it (just a single line, nothing more)

Is it supposed to work already or what? I though I could already use **l** in terminal to execute **ls -l** but I get **command not found**

Where am I wrong?

permissions are: **755 my:my** (not root)

thanx)

---

### Post by texpat on 2010-07-12
Try calling it .bashrc

;-)

---

### Post by xenoplant on 2010-07-12
> **texpat said:**
> Try calling it .bashrc

;-)
I have one but there're a lot of scary things I'm reluctant to touch

---

### Post by xenoplant on 2010-07-12
ok. I added the alias to .bashrc but I'm still with command not found. What do I do to make it work?

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-07-12
Note that .bash_profile would only run when you login.  .bashrc is executed before any bash command.

There is already an alias for l in .bashrc
alias l='ls -CF'
so it may depend whether you comment that out or put your alias before or after it.

Maybe changing file permissions broke it.  Normal permissions for .bashrc are 644
-rw-r--r-- 1 efflandt efflandt 3103 2010-07-09 19:34 .bashrc

Also if you still have a .bash_profile that should also be 644, and if it still exists would be executed during login instead of the default .profile.

---

### Post by texpat on 2010-07-12
> **xenoplant said:**
> ok. I added the alias to .bashrc but I'm still with command not found. What do I do to make it work?

```
source .bashrc
```

That should run the resource file which now includes your modifications.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-07-12
It is much easioer to make a file called ~/.bash_aliases and put all your aliases in that rather than playing with another file in your home.

Just make sure your current ~/.bashrc contains the lines, usually near the bottom,
```
if [ -f ~/.bash_aliases ]; then
    . ~/.bash_aliases
fi
```and if not add them to activate the ~/.bash_aliases file.

Here's a list of useful aliases that I use which you might also find handy:-
alias am='alsamixer'
alias cp='cp -i'
alias df='df -h'
alias fd='mount /media/floppy'
alias ufd='umount /media/floppy'
alias free='free -m'
alias fsck='sudo touch /forcefsck'
alias gip='get_iplayer'
alias gipr='get_iplayer --type radio'
alias gipg='get_iplayer -g'
alias hw='sudo lshw -html > hw.html'
alias la='ls -A'
alias ll='ls -l'
alias l='ls -CF'
alias mv='mv -i'
alias q='exit'
alias rm='rm -i'
alias xorg='cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf'

---

### Post by xenoplant on 2010-07-12
> **texpat said:**
> ```
source .bashrc
```
that's what I needed, many thanks

2 **ajgreeny**
yes, it's indeed easier with .bash_aliases  thank you too:-D

---

