---
title: "12.10 unity bar issue"
date: 2012-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by itachi12596 on 2012-11-12
Just upgraded to Ubuntu 12.10. Seems to work pretty well, only the unity bar won't display when I move my cursor over to the left like it should. Tried resetting it to default, and it still didn't work. Any help?

---

### Post by heebzy87 on 2012-11-12
Do Desktop icons show up? If not I found this to be a video driver problem. If you have ATI try and reinstall fglrx. I had to force uninstall my driver.

sudo apt-get install fglrx(only for ATI)

---

### Post by itachi12596 on 2012-11-12
My folders still show up. Not running an ATI card. Nvidia card if memory serves. My brother made my computer for me

---

### Post by itachi12596 on 2012-11-12
Folders on the desktop that is

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-11-12
If this was an upgrade the new version of the Gnome Tweak Tool may need to be installed in order to add icons to the desktop.

---

### Post by NewAmercnClasic on 2012-11-13
Do you have the top bar hidden as well?  What about the login screen?

---

### Post by Steeperton on 2012-11-13
Add

```

    Option         "ConstrainCursor" "no"

```

to the Device section of xorg.conf then reboot (if xorg.conf is not on your system, create it with nvidia-settings). it's a problem with the current Nvidia driver and Unity (apparently)

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-11-13
> **itachi12596 said:**
> Just upgraded to Ubuntu 12.10. Seems to work pretty well, only the unity bar won't display when I move my cursor over to the left like it should. Tried resetting it to default, and it still didn't work. Any help?

How did you reset it? Try this [http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-reset-unity-in-ubuntu-12-10-quantal](http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-reset-unity-in-ubuntu-12-10-quantal)

---

