---
title: "10.04 Installation on Sony VPC-Z1"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by glabu on 2010-05-01
Hello,

I'm trying to install Ubuntu on a Sony VPC-Z1 notebook. Downloaded the new .iso for 10.04 and burned it on CD. On reboot everything seemed to work fine at first, entering all the required information for the setup process. Upon clicking the "Install"-Button on Step 7/7, I almost immediately get the message "Failed to create a file system - The ext4 file system creation in partition #1 of Serial ATA RAID isw_bdhbjdacbh_Volume0 (stripe) failed." and setup returns to the previous step. I've used the option "Erase and use the entire disk" for disk usage. The problem occurs with the 32-bit and the 64-bit version.

Also, in another attempt to install, i've tried to use the "Try Ubunut 10.04 LTS"-Button. In this case the Ubuntu will start (at least the starting-sound is played), but the screen becomes dark and stays so. 

Here's the specs of the notebook:
Intel® Core&#8482; i7 CPU 620M (2,66 GHz)
256 GB SSD
6 GB DDR3 SDRAM (1066 MHz), max. 8 GB
NVIDIA® GeForce® GT 330M GPU + Intel® HD Graphics

Please help :-)

---

### Post by AgentWD-40 on 2010-05-04
I'm having a similar problem here as well. I have a disk mirror set up through my BIOS with two 500GB SATA Seagate drives. It doesn't matter whether I select the option to automatically set up my partitions or whether I specify them manually I always get the following error when the installer begins formatting:

Failed to create a file system

The ext4 file system creation in partition #1 of serial ATA RAID nvidia_bcbeheea (mirror) failed.

I've been fighting this for three days now and I'm unable to find a solution anywhere. I've tried partitioning the array using GParted from a live USB, but it refuses to do so stating:

"/dev/sda1 is apparently in use by the system; will not make a filesystem here!"

Can anybody out there please help?

---

### Post by AgentWD-40 on 2010-05-05
It seems that Karmic didn't have this problem with RAID controllers so I'm a little puzzled as to why Lucid does. Nonetheless I solved this issue by doing a fresh install of Karmic on my array, and then just used the update manager to update to Lucid. Things seem to be working well now.

---

### Post by glabu on 2010-05-05
what did you do to get the hybrid graphics cards running? 

the "best" solutions i find out there are flashing the bios to get access to advanced settings and disable the intel onboard chip...

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-05
look at : [http://packages.ubuntu.com/fr/lucid/debian-installer/partman-auto-raid](http://packages.ubuntu.com/fr/lucid/debian-installer/partman-auto-raid)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8643812&postcount=40](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8643812&postcount=40)

[http://weait.com/content/install-raid0-ubuntu-lucid-lynx](http://weait.com/content/install-raid0-ubuntu-lucid-lynx)

---

### Post by AgentWD-40 on 2010-05-05
> **glabu said:**
> what did you do to get the hybrid graphics cards running? 

the "best" solutions i find out there are flashing the bios to get access to advanced settings and disable the intel onboard chip...

Which graphics cards do you have in your machine? I'm not totally sure what you're trying to do. Are you talking about using SLI? If so you'll need two of the same video card in your machine.

---

### Post by glabu on 2010-05-05
the notebook has two graphics card inside:
NVIDIA® GeForce® GT 330M GPU + Intel® HD Graphics

you have a 3-way-switch to select which one you want to use (speed - stamina - auto)...

i'd be fine with the nvidia only, but ubuntu does not seem to work with either

---

### Post by AgentWD-40 on 2010-05-05
What do you see when you attempt to boot from a live CD? Do you even get to see the purple screen with the little white keyboard and stick figure at the bottom?

---

### Post by AgentWD-40 on 2010-05-05
Sorry, I just read through your post again. I've got too many things going on at once here. Try this:

1. Boot from your live CD/USB
2. When you see the purple screen with the white keyboard/stick figure at the bottom of the screen, press Enter to get to the options menu.
3. From here you should be able to select modes by hitting F4.
4. Select "Safe Graphics Mode"
5. Select "Try Ubuntu without any change to your computer"

Please post whether or not this gets you to the desktop.

---

### Post by glabu on 2010-05-06
When i boot from the live cd (karmic), most of the time it automatically goes to safe graphics mode (i also sometimes get high resolution, pretty weird). for 10.04 i always have to add i915.modeset=0 xforcevesa to the boot parameters to get the live cd working...

The most interesting thing is: in Lynx I don't get the nvidia driver to work at all, but yesterday i tried to install from the original 9.10 CD and i was able to install and even get the nvidia driver up and running. Then i started update manager to get the latest version of Karmic and bang - X crashed after the restart and there was no way to get the nvidida driver running again. So i suspect changes made between the original release of 9.10 and 10.04 cause the new behaviour.

---

