---
title: "Horrible Refresh rates enough to make me go back to XP"
date: 2007-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GadgetsGuy on 2007-05-19
I have tried absolutely EVERYTHING that I could find in this forum as well as a few others to try to get my video refresh rate proper with Feisty ...

It worked fine in previous flavors of ubuntu ... but I have had NO JOY AT ALL trying to get rid of that annoying flourescent-like flutter in light colors (like white)

I have run sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg about 10 times now, and each time when I reboot, I get either ONLY 61Hz or ONLY 85Hz for my refresh options ... 

I want to have the option for 75 Hz @1024 x 768 

My graphics card is a ATI Radeon 7000VE (r100)

My monitor is HP p930

I am using the "vesa" driver, as the ATI driver does not run on my setup.

I have ran the xserver-xorg reconfigure script 10 times, and I have also manually edited the X11/xorg.conf to make sure that the refresh rate values are set correctly as per the factory specs of my monitor which is 30-110 (horz) and 50-160 (vert)

here is my current xorg.conf :
```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI RADEON 7000VE"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"HP P930"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-110
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI RADEON 7000VE"
	Monitor		"HP P930"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
```

Can somebody PLEASE explain to me what is wrong why I cannot set my refresh rate in such a way that the white screens do not kill my vision?!?  

Thank you

---

### Post by GadgetsGuy on 2007-05-19
Also may I be as bold as to ask .... Why on god's green earth are we still configuring xorg manually and why can we not have a GUI interface for this task ??

I consider myself to be fairly tech savvy, and for the things I dont know how to do, I am not afraid to follow a step-by-step tutorial, but jesus man ... configuring the xorg.conf files manually is a very good reason for alot of people to not switch from their beloved Micro$oft ...

I think for Ubuntu Linux to be truely desktop ready and able to convert many widows users, you are going to have to make alot more of the basic setup all GUI driven ....

---

### Post by ricrac on 2007-05-19
Have you tried putting in a custom modeline generated from here..
[http://www.bohne-lang.de/spec/linux/modeline/](http://www.bohne-lang.de/spec/linux/modeline/)

Posted info and directions for use found here...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)

---

### Post by aldenhg on 2007-05-19
I'm guessing the reason that we're still editing the xorg.conf file manually is because with a little knowledge it's pretty easy. I do agree that there should be an easy GUI for it, though.

---

### Post by GadgetsGuy on 2007-05-22
> **ricrac said:**
> Have you tried putting in a custom modeline generated from here..
[http://www.bohne-lang.de/spec/linux/modeline/](http://www.bohne-lang.de/spec/linux/modeline/)

Posted info and directions for use found here...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)

I added the custom Modeline, and still only got one refresh rate of 85Hz after reboot

:(

---

### Post by JacobRogers on 2007-05-22
> **GadgetsGuy said:**
> I added the custom Modeline, and still only got one refresh rate of 85Hz after reboot

:(

Maybe go back to a flavor of Ubuntu that did work for you.  The latest version isn't  LTS, maybe you should go back to the 6.x.

---

### Post by GadgetsGuy on 2007-05-22
> **JacobRogers said:**
> Maybe go back to a flavor of Ubuntu that did work for you.  The latest version isn't  LTS, maybe you should go back to the 6.x.

Ummmmmmmmm .... I am pretty certain that I am still well within the support window for feisty ...

VERY LAME REPLY!

---

### Post by whatme33 on 2007-05-22
I hear you and agree. I am trying to convert from windows to linux but it is regrinding my teeth and I am worried I will wear them out.

---

### Post by eks on 2007-05-22
GadgetsGuy

I completely agree with you on a GUI for xorg.conf, it would really help get more people into Ubuntu, as a general rounding up of graphical configuration would; which, as I've been told, has always lacked behind in development from "the open source community".

As for your problem, I don't think you will be able to change your refresh rate with Ubuntu's vesa drivers, someone more knowledgeable should answer that. Why the ATI drivers don't run with your setup? Have you tried to solve that instead?

The problem here I think it's more on ATI lack of support for Linux drivers than the vesa driver, which (I think) just serve for general purposes. ATI drivers are indeed quite terrible, and are the reason I'm actually changing my graphic board so I can run compiz with dual monitors.


eks

---

### Post by tanelt on 2007-05-22
Oh how I feel your pain, GadgetsGuy.

I have also edited xorg.conf about a few hundreds of times by now, in every way that I could think of, but I get the feeling it's impossible for me to get it working. :(

---

### Post by GadgetsGuy on 2007-05-29
> **eks said:**
> GadgetsGuy

I completely agree with you on a GUI for xorg.conf, it would really help get more people into Ubuntu, as a general rounding up of graphical configuration would; which, as I've been told, has always lacked behind in development from "the open source community".

As for your problem, I don't think you will be able to change your refresh rate with Ubuntu's vesa drivers, someone more knowledgeable should answer that. Why the ATI drivers don't run with your setup? Have you tried to solve that instead?

The problem here I think it's more on ATI lack of support for Linux drivers than the vesa driver, which (I think) just serve for general purposes. ATI drivers are indeed quite terrible, and are the reason I'm actually changing my graphic board so I can run compiz with dual monitors.


eks

thanks for your reply eks, but my ATI card is from the R100 family and not supported by the ATI driver ... and all attempts at finding the old DRI drivers that supported R100 cards have failed ...   :(

---

### Post by GadgetsGuy on 2007-05-29
> **tanelt said:**
> Oh how I feel your pain, GadgetsGuy.

I have also edited xorg.conf about a few hundreds of times by now, in every way that I could think of, but I get the feeling it's impossible for me to get it working. :(

I work 6-10 hours a day online, and after about 2 hours I can no longer take the fluttering of the whites, so back into XP I boot .... 

I wish somebody had a work-around that would keep me in UbuntuStudio ALL DAY LONG ......  :(

---

### Post by hessiess on 2007-05-29
having a gui to configure the xserver is perfect until you do somthing that mukes it up and you are dumped to a comand line, then you havent got a clue what to do

---

### Post by GadgetsGuy on 2007-06-03
unfortunately I have found no solution to my problem, so I am back using XP for now ...

I have been watching the forums intently for somebody to offer some kind of hope for me .... but I just could not take the 61hz flourescent-like fluttering any longer :(

---

### Post by coolzgeek on 2007-06-03
Use KDE. Then, click on system settings>monitor & display > Hardware. use Admin mode on the bottom right. Edit Monitors 1 & 2. you will have a list showing refresh rate and your resolution. Then apply and reboot. Works for me (on kde but gnome should be solved too)

---

### Post by coolzgeek on 2007-06-03
NOTE: its your monitor don't blame your poor graphics card

---

### Post by kingmob on 2007-06-03
Are you sure it is using 1024x768? I would at least remove the resolutions you don't plan on using or aren't supported by your monitor. I have little hope of this improving your situations, but you never know. Also, can you show the output of /var/log/Xorg.log (or something similar).

---

### Post by Enverex on 2007-06-03
Your card should be supported by the Open Source ATi driver. Change "vesa" to "ati" (note that this ISN'T the official driver, that one is named fglrx). VESA probably isn't that great at talking to hardware or working out modes.

---

### Post by GadgetsGuy on 2007-06-27
> **Enverex said:**
> Your card should be supported by the Open Source ATi driver. Change "vesa" to "ati" (note that this ISN'T the official driver, that one is named fglrx). VESA probably isn't that great at talking to hardware or working out modes.

Now I cannot even get Ubuntu to load .... 

I switched "vesa" to "ati" and I get a solid black screen after the UbuntuStudio splashscreen  :(

HELP!!     :(

---

### Post by dodgePT on 2007-06-27
Check the logs man (Xorg.0.log), and paste them here (the relevant parts), it would help us find out what crashed your X.

---

### Post by Nehvrook on 2007-06-27
I've had this black screen before. For me it was caused by the graphics drivers not knowing if it should use PCI or AGP port.


I fixed it by putting this into the graphics card section of my xorg.conf

Option "NvAGP" "1"

That's for Nvidia graphics drivers. You will possibly have to change it to atiAGP or something similar I'm not sure sorry. But putting that in fixed it for me (Assuming your graphics card is in an AGP slot.

I can't be more helpful than that but maybe it will help you know where to start

Good luck :)

EDIT:

Here are some links maybe helpfull

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=463071](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=463071)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=463071](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=463071)

All related to Nvidia I know but it seems like something similar.

---

