---
title: "10.10 Update Failure = Boot Failure"
date: 2011-02-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by arbitra on 2011-02-15
Okay, this is kind-of complicated. And there are topics very similar, but none which have seemed to have remotely so serious consequences.

System: Dual-booting Ubuntu (primary) W7 (secondary)
Toshiba Laptop (Satellite L675D or some such)

I decided I'd update to 10.10 from 10.04 for some of the nifty improvements. Big mistake. The update from update manager fails partway through (possibly due to proprietary java?)

I reboot.

When I reboot, after going through most of the phases of booting (for those using the Bizcom boot splash, it gets past the point where it usually goes to login screen), but then I get this error.

no init found. try passing init = bootarg. It goes to busybox (which I have to say, the busybox utilities look surprisingly useless for this situation).

Now, most threads then go on to discuss booting from a live CD and fscking the partition and everything's good again.

Any LiveCD I use hangs on start. Any LiveUSB refuses to even attempt booting it looks like. Windows is the only thing that still boots. I am writing to you from my windows partition. Any virtual machine in windows that tries to access the partition (mount it, fsck it, etc.) hangs the entire machine pretty much immediately.

I believe my partition is encrypted (in a bug support it was noted as encrypted).

I really have run completely out of ideas for recovering this partition. I don't have the tools to format the drive, and I'm seriously considering sending the laptop in to the manufacturer and having them junk the hard drive and installing a new one.

Can anyone help me?

Note: I have described exactly the steps I've taken. If there's something that could be done from busybox for instance, I haven't done it since I didn't see any way to proceed there.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-02-15
Welcome to the forums :-)

Try booting recovery mode and if successful, you might be able to diagnose/solve the issue.

Press and hold down Shift key from your Bios screen until you see Grub menu. Choose recovery and then Drop to root shell. Follow the commands below.

Bring up internet.

```
dhclient eth0
```

Where eth0 is your network interface.

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```

Post the errors if any.

If you can't either boot the recovery mode, you might want to chroot you install from a Live CD and follow the same commands as mentioned above.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BasicChroot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BasicChroot)

If you post the output of bootifnoscirpt from a Live CD, we can give you exact commands on how to chroot.

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net)

If you want to, you can do a re-install. It would probably the easier and quicker option.

If you want to recover you files, you can mount your Ubuntu partition under a Live CD and copy your data over to a safe location.

---

### Post by arbitra on 2011-02-15
Thank you for the prompt reply, however,

None of those options works.

None.

LiveCDs will not boot, and I cannot find any "safe" options.
The recovery mode of Ubuntu eventually deposits me back at busybox.

On top of that, I can't do anything on the net from within Ubuntu unless I can get gui functional, because there's a portal system preventing access unless you have a browser with javascript.

I'll go take a look at recovery mode again and see if there's anything at all I can do with it before getting dumped back at busybox.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-02-15
Probably the only option left is either chroot or a re-install.

---

### Post by arbitra on 2011-02-15
Note: These questions are terse, but they are meant genuinely.

How would Chroot help me?

Further, how would I reinstall when a liveCD fails to boot?

Also, I should note the busybox documentation mentions having fsck (which would probably work, I guess), but my busybox doesn't recognize the command.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-02-15
Sorry I missed the part of your above post which said that the Live CD is not booting.

For a step by step guide, see here.

[http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/02/common-installation-problems-with.html](http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/02/common-installation-problems-with.html)

Most probably the disc is defected.

You didn't tell where does the CD boot hang up? Or there are any errors?

And Chroot puts you in an environment as if you are booted from the Ubuntu install and are performing commands from within it. But I doubt if it would be easy to chroot and solve the main problem. Instead if you can, try to go for a re-install. We will try to help you as much as we can.

---

### Post by arbitra on 2011-02-15
The LiveCD is fine, works correctly. My friend can boot it, and I can boot it as the .iso for virtualbox.

I /think/ I can get to the options screen of the livecd when doing it physically (not in VM), but if I let it proceed it hangs.

Nothing has listed any errors with respect to my partition. The closest I've gotten is some output from GRML when examining it unmounted (which is possibly the only thing that hasn't hanged when touching the partition).

This is all I was able to accomplish during my time with the GRML virtual machine (couldn't get it to boot physically - nothing boots physically):


Command: dd if=/dev/sdb5 bs=1024 count=1024 | file -
 (sdb5 is Ubuntu's partition)
/dev/stdin: Linux rev 1.0 ext filesystem data UUID=[longassstringhere] (needs journal recovery) (extents) (large files) (huge files)

Attempting to mount or fsck it both resulted in hanging not just the VM but windows itself.

Note, goals in order of priority:
Recover data
boot current install
functioning computer

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-02-15
Press any key as soon as it starts booting from the disc. Gain access to the Options page and press F6. There are 6 boot parameters and you need to try them all of them one-by-one. Most probably, nomodeset, acpi=off or noapic should work for you if the disc is ok.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions#Main%20Page%20Options](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions#Main%20Page%20Options)

---

### Post by arbitra on 2011-02-15
Okay. That booted.

For once, something actually booted. Took forever, but it booted.

Anyway, I'm currently using a 10.10 64bit livecd (64bit processor, after all).

So, what's the next step? Should I just try to fsck the drive from here or something?

Decided, while I waited, to try mounting a filesystem listed under places suspiciously close in size to my partition (and it's by far the only possibility at that size)

Error mounting: mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sdb5,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

I input the command in terminal, and got:
[  493.162936] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:4
[  493.282934] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:5
[  493.402930] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:6
[  493.522927] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:7
[  493.642925] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:8
[  493.762916] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:9
[  493.882921] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:10
[  494.002907] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:11
[  494.122904] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:12
[  494.242905] =====>rtl8192_set_chan()====ch:13

which means nothing to me.

Got bored while waiting, decided to try fscking it, as worst case scenario I'd have to reboot the LiveCD.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ fsck /dev/sdb5
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2
e2fsck 1.41.12 (17-May-2010)
fsck.ext2: Permission denied while trying to open /dev/sdb5
You must have r/w access to the filesystem or be root

I am not sure which I lack, or how to correct it.

I tried mounting and doing dmesg | tail again, and got more interesting info:
[ 5075.306170] Descriptor sense data with sense descriptors (in hex):
[ 5075.306171]         72 03 11 04 00 00 00 0c 00 0a 80 00 00 00 00 00 
[ 5075.306178]         14 33 1d 9d 
[ 5075.306181] sd 0:0:0:0: [sdb] Add. Sense: Unrecovered read error - auto reallocate failed
[ 5075.306185] sd 0:0:0:0: [sdb] CDB: Read(10): 28 00 14 33 1d 9d 00 01 00 00
[ 5075.306192] end_request: I/O error, dev sdb, sector 338894237
[ 5075.306218] JBD: Failed to read block at offset 4086
[ 5075.306223] ata1: EH complete
[ 5075.306227] JBD: recovery failed
[ 5075.306230] EXT4-fs (sdb5): error loading journal

---

### Post by arbitra on 2011-02-15
my apologies for being so hasty to bump, but can anyone think of anything?

sudo fscked, went through some random stuff.

Long story short, I can mount the filesystem now.

Now, I can't access my home folder.

Is there some way I can do this without rebooting? I'm afraid there may have been some sort of actual damage to my system and I don't want to miss my opportunity.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-02-16
Are you sure your /home folder was not encrypted? If it was encrypted, here is how you can mount it under a Live CD/USB.

[http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/ubuntu-mounting-your-encrypted-home-from-livecd/](http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/ubuntu-mounting-your-encrypted-home-from-livecd/)

---

