---
title: "10.10 64bit install halts at 61% file copy"
date: 2010-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2010-10-23
Hey Guys,

I am having some issues installing Kubuntu 10.10 64bit, I have tried two ISO's from different mirrors, multiple writable disks (seriously I had to go buy another 20 pack) and the install halts at the exact same point each time.

I have run multiple HDD checking tools using Hirens 9.9 boot CD, I have recreated and formated the partitions twice but still each time the install will stop at 61% stating there was an error copying files and to check the media.

I grabbed the ISO's from Kubuntu.org and the second one from the NZ mirror ftp.citylink.co.nz in the hopes that maybe the image came down corrupt - the disk check before installing cannot find anything wrong yet it still happens ... its very upside down face

any suggestions or help would be very appreciated

Specs:
Intel Core 2 Duo 2.8
4GB DDR 2 Ram
SDA: 1TB
[INDENT]sda1: ntfs /windows
sda2: Extended
[INDENT]sda5: ext 4 /
sda6: ext 4 /home
sda7: swap[/INDENT][/INDENT]
SDB: 1TB
[INDENT]sdb1: ntfs /steam[/INDENT]
nvidia 9800GTX

---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2010-10-23
Update:
I reinstalled Kubuntu 10.04 64bit fine and downloaded an Ubuntu 10.10 64bit ISO burnt it off onto a blank disk which passed the disk check and tried installing it onto the machine - Unfortunately it reached what appeared to be the same point as the Kubuntu 10.10 64bit install and halted with the same error

I have ran Nero CD-DVD Speed under windows simulating long periods of use on the optical drive, replaced the RAM and the HDD I am installing onto and still cannot find any faults or errors with the HW of the machine.


Optical Drive: Pioneer DVR-11D

---

### Post by utilitytrack on 2010-10-23
> **Vitamin-Carrot said:**
> ...Unfortunately it reached what appeared to be the same point as the Kubuntu 10.10 64bit install and halted with the same error.

Hmm, are you sure that enough space on partition?
Did you checked a MD5 hash before burning image onto a disk?

Generally speaking, there is a lots of bugs and troubles in Ubuntu installer (Ubiquity): 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity")

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity]("https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity")

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/619232]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/619232")

It's simply terrible. Look and I think you will find there your bug :)

---

### Post by Vitamin-Carrot on 2010-10-23
Thanks for the reply ....
Yes the md5 has been correct each time I have downloaded the ISO - I have however just received another copy of the Kubuntu 10.10 64bit ISO from a trusted friend with the right md5 burned it off and performed a disk check - it appears that a single file on the disk made from his ISO is being reported as having an error. When installing from this disk I receive the fault at the same 61% file copy point.

Thanks for the links: yes my problem does appear there however in each case the solution seems to have been downloading the ISO file again - unfortunately that doesnt seem to have resolved my issue at all, with that said I will be reverting back to 10.04

I agree there is something wrong with Ubiquity for 10.10 and I hope that it is dealt with soon especially seeing as its the first taste of Ubuntu/Kubuntu that new users experience even if they just want to try the live version

---

### Post by galvatron408 on 2010-11-15
I hit some strange issue installing 10.10 64-bit from CD too. But this is how I fixed it or worked around the problem. 

#1 - make sure you are not connected to the internet while installing
#2 - install from CD as normal
#3 - when the installation is done, go to the ubuntu web site and download aptitude
#4 - manually install aptitude and everything magically starts working.

Note that if you do not install aptitude manually, no packages can be updated or downloaded (at least for me anyway)

This was on a Lenovo T-61 core duo 2.2ghz, 40gb partition with 3gb ram.

> **Vitamin-Carrot said:**
> Thanks for the reply ....
Yes the md5 has been correct each time I have downloaded the ISO - I have however just received another copy of the Kubuntu 10.10 64bit ISO from a trusted friend with the right md5 burned it off and performed a disk check - it appears that a single file on the disk made from his ISO is being reported as having an error. When installing from this disk I receive the fault at the same 61% file copy point.

Thanks for the links: yes my problem does appear there however in each case the solution seems to have been downloading the ISO file again - unfortunately that doesnt seem to have resolved my issue at all, with that said I will be reverting back to 10.04

I agree there is something wrong with Ubiquity for 10.10 and I hope that it is dealt with soon especially seeing as its the first taste of Ubuntu/Kubuntu that new users experience even if they just want to try the live version

---

