---
title: "9.04 --- Jaunty Jackalope --- Loving it."
date: 2009-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by YMS_1975 on 2009-04-29
Just wanted to share some feedback with the community regarding my recent upgrade to Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope). 

It was a smooth upgrade, no problems/surprises AND...my wireless networking connection has improved!!! It connects automatically almost instantly, whereas with 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex) it took a couple of minutes.

In fact, I'd usually have to restart my laptop just as soon as it finished booting up initially before it would even detect my network. 9.04 has fixed this up quite nicely.

Anybody else experience the same positive results?   :)

---

### Post by alligoodw on 2009-04-29
This is the first Ubuntu release that has ever detected my wireless correctly; even my web-cam works flawlessly.  There is a lot to like with this version.

---

### Post by rturner on 2009-04-29
This is the first release where Nautilus worked for me, showing all the machines on my LAN as well as the shares.  Previously I could connect to shares, but I had to do it manually.  Also, I can set a static IP address in Jaunty and it stays.  In 8.10 I had to set it manually because it would grab a dhcp address after boot.  (I need a static ip for my internal LAMP and SSH servers).

---

### Post by mahenkpatel on 2009-04-29
Its too fast and smoother even in my low end laptop.....only problem is that i cannot find wvdial.conf file to get my internet working, if anybody can help me in this issue i will be very thankfull.

---

### Post by anaconda on 2009-04-29
> **mahenkpatel said:**
> Its too fast and smoother even in my low end laptop.....only problem is that i cannot find wvdial.conf file to get my internet working, if anybody can help me in this issue i will be very thankfull.

Apparently wvdial is not included in 9.04 !!! It seems that I have to start looking for a better linux distro now. (any which has wvdial pre-installed) 
 
Here is a workaround that might work:

Post#6 on this thread.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1108766](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1108766)

EDIT: I just installed Jaunty, and it seems that in 9.04 I don't need wvdial any longer. Network manager connects to the net almost automagically with my 3G dongle (e220)  

But I also installed the wvdial, and the packages you need to install it are:
libxplc0.3.13 (0.3.13-1build1) ...
libwvstreams4.4-base (4.4.1-0.2ubuntu2) ...
libwvstreams4.4-extras (4.4.1-0.2ubuntu2) ...
libuniconf4.4 (4.4.1-0.2ubuntu2) ...
wvdial (1.60.1+nmu2) ...

And if you want gnome-ppp (graphical interface to wvdial you can also install:
gnome-ppp 0.3.23-1

Just download those packkages in any machine that has an internet connection and install them one by one in the same order than above.
eg. with:
dpkg -i libxplc0.3.13.deb

PS. all the packages above fit to about 1MB.

---

