---
title: "CPU being beaten to death!!"
date: 2009-06-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by penguinchrissy on 2009-06-05
I have a few programs that are just hammering my cpu in 9.04:
firefox
miro.real
xorg
python
compiz.real
awn

I first noticed the problem when I was just surfing the internet and saw my cpu was at 90% so I looked around and found that flash might be the problem and installed flashblock kinda fixed things. I say kinda cause I do watch a lot of flash videos and with flash being the cause of my high cpu just installing flashblock isn't a fix.

I have also noticed high cpu usage with miro but not from miro itself. Its mostly from python. Just having miro open python is avg. 35% cpu usage. When viewing a video (tv show what ever you like to call them) miro.real goes up to about 25%. This I kinda expect because watching video is not an easy task like web browsing but still is a little high in my honest opinion.

Now to xorg and compiz.real these programs seem to jump up and down a lot while either miro or firefox or both are running. They can be as high as 20%  alternating or both at the same time.Xorg and awn can also have my cpu and around 35% when my computer is just idle. 

My GPU is Nvidia GeForce Go 6800 and my drive is the nvidia 180.44

I have a feeling these problems are related somehow but can't find a definite answer on the web I was hoping that I might be able to find some help here.

Thx.!:)

---

### Post by Megrimn on 2009-06-05
how much memory (RAM) do you have, and what processor?  

Also, when was the last time you shut down your computer? not shutting your computer down when you aren't using it really kills your cpu and ram.

---

### Post by penguinchrissy on 2009-06-05
Intel(R) Pentium(R) M processor 2.00GHz
1002.5 MB (1 Gig) Memory

Last time I shut down my computer was 5p.m. today. I shut it down every day at least once to take it to school. Sometimes I live it running at night if I have something DL but other then that its off at night. 

Thanks for the quick response!

---

### Post by anjilslaire on 2009-06-05
> **Megrimn said:**
> not shutting your computer down when you aren't using it really kills your cpu and ram.

This is not true. Many Linux systems have uptimes of months at a time without harm, easily. In fact, the most stress on a system can be during bootup.

I suggest using System Monitor to check & close/kill some apps as needed, excluding Xorg unless you're comfy with restarting your GUI from a terminal prompt.
However, rebooting may solve it as well. It's just not necessary.

---

### Post by Megrimn on 2009-06-05
> **anjilslaire said:**
> This is not true. Many Linux systems have uptimes of months at a time without harm, easily. In fact, the most stress on a system can be during bootup.

That of course, was windoze experience speaking up there. :D 
but yeah, a simple reboot tends to fix things.

And by the looks of it, ram and processor aren't the culprits...
hmm....

---

### Post by penguinchrissy on 2009-06-05
Well I did a reboot because I just installed timemachine the problem still exists but I think I found some of the culprits. 

I have been monitoring my cpu through an applet in awn and while watching what programs are sucking my cpu's power Xorg and awn are always the highest combing for something around 25%. But opening the terminal and using top they sit nice and low at about .7%.

While watching a video in miro and watching top miro comes out at about 20% xorg 6% and compiz.real 6% but python isn't a problem.

Firefox is still a problem while a webpage loads it can go as high as 40% and xorg can go as high as 20%. These are pages that don't have flash in them, such as gmail. It will go up quickly stay about 10% for a few secs go to 3% for a few secs then goes down to .3%. To give a example as I'm typing this I'm watching it go from about 3% to about 15% it just bounces up and down. Watching a flash video it goes to about 65% and stays there and xorg and compiz.real bounce between 1-7%. 

Another thing I get this warning message when I shut my computer down from compiz. It comes after the backgrounds generated by compiz disappear. I can't read what it says because its only up for a quick sec but i think it says something about compiz not being able to be rendered.But I'm using it :confused:.

If thats not related don't worry about it but if you could suggest a way I could be able to read the message to take care of the problem that would be nice. I just really want to get this cpu thing taken care for so I don't burn my lap when watching videos and surfing the web.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-05
> **penguinchrissy said:**
> Another thing I get this warning message when I shut my computer down from compiz. It comes after the backgrounds generated by compiz disappear. I can't read what it says because its only up for a quick sec but i think it says something about compiz not being able to be rendered.But I'm using it :confused:.

If thats not related don't worry about it but if you could suggest a way I could be able to read the message to take care of the problem that would be nice. I just really want to get this cpu thing taken care for so I don't burn my lap when watching videos and surfing the web.

Don't worry about that message, that is not your problem. It says that you need compiz to run awn or screenlets properly. It happens because compiz is closed first in the shutdown process.

Check if you have Python 2.5 installed along with Python 2.6. If you have, then it might be the culprit. Check [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7210541&postcount=12) for more information.

[This one](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152095) also has a few tips that might help

---

### Post by penguinchrissy on 2009-06-05
I tired uninstalling python 2.5 and it did help a little because firefox its using high amounts of cpu all the time but it still is using about in avg for 10% jumps between .7-25% while just lookin at news sites.

Thanks for all the help so far.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-06-06
If you just moved to Jaunty on an older machine with Intel graphics, you should be aware that some older Intel graphics cards are "blacklisted".

Take a look at

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyJackalope/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyJackalope/ReleaseNotes)

and scroll down to Other Known Issues.

I think there is some help and some suggested work-arounds.

This may be causing your processor woes.

---

### Post by penguinchrissy on 2009-06-06
I didn't see anything there that would work for me. I have an Nvidia GeForce Go 6800. Firefox doesn't sit using high cpu but when ever I click on a link it jumps up to 25-40% then comes bak down to .7% xorg and compiz.real also shot up a little bit then come back down.

---

