---
title: "11.04 Crashes at random - Need help with troubleshooting please"
date: 2012-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-01-04
I have Ubuntu 11.04 on a Dell Inspiron 530.  I've had this machine for several years and it's worked flawlessly the entire time.

**The only changes I've made to it are listed below:**

A few years ago I added some memory, it came with 2GB and now has 4GB. That was over 2 years ago and it's been running fine since on that memory. I let the memory check run for over 3 hours and it came back with no problems. So I don't think that's a problem.

A few years ago I added a different video card, and it's run flawless on that. So I don't think that's the problem.

About 9-10 months ago, I reloaded the machine after installing a Crucial SSD hard drive. It's been working fine, and the machine runs really fast with it. So, I'm not sure that's the issue... but I suppose it could be since it's the last thing I changed.


**Symptom:**
[COLOR="Red"]When:[/COLOR] Just at random, machine could be just on with me not using it at all or while I'm using it.
[COLOR="Red"]What:[/COLOR] Total lockup, stops responding to PING and everything. Blank screen. HDD light on the computer is typically solid lit and the fans are running higher than normal, although not full blast.

**What I've done:**
Run a memory check, seems fine.. I let it run for several hours with no bad results.

I looked at this: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DebuggingSystemCrash](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DebuggingSystemCrash) But I don't think it applies


Any suggestions on what I could try next? I'd really hate to have to replace this machine, it works great for me! When it's working...

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-01-04
So, if we discount lack of RAM and RAM failure and overheating, what else could it be?

Something using up system resources. I am guessing that the hard disk activity is due to data being paged in and out of swap space. Which should be rare with 2GB of RAM let alone 4GB. So, I am thinking that something is working like crazy on your machine using the CPU and filling up RAM.

I know of two ways to check this. Open System Monitor and watch the Resources tab. And run a command called top. Both these ways work in real time. They show you which processes are running and how much of the system they are using.

Others on this forum might have other suggestions.

Regards.

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2012-01-04
> **grahammechanical said:**
> So, if we discount lack of RAM and RAM failure and overheating, what else could it be?

Something using up system resources. I am guessing that the hard disk activity is due to data being paged in and out of swap space. Which should be rare with 2GB of RAM let alone 4GB. So, I am thinking that something is working like crazy on your machine using the CPU and filling up RAM.

I know of two ways to check this. Open System Monitor and watch the Resources tab. And run a command called top. Both these ways work in real time. They show you which processes are running and how much of the system they are using.

Others on this forum might have other suggestions.

Regards.


I would start by giving the system a cleaning and cable check. Resetting the Memory and all the PCI cards.

---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-01-04
I'm pretty sure it's not resource related, at least as far as memory goes. I keep the little resource manager on my desktop tool bar and it never gets high. And sometimes it'll do it when I'm not even using the computer, like I come back and it's locked up.

I'm wondering if the MB is bad and the SATA controller messed up or if it's the way Ubuntu interacts with the SATA controller... I know it's not temp related either, I keep the case cover off after this started happening and it still does it. Plus sometimes it'll go days without lockup other times just a few hours.

---

### Post by Bobhuber on 2012-01-04
First thing I would suspect would be the SSD.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-01-04
Rule out hardware failure.  And I mean a really thorough job of checking everything.  I can't count the number of times in the last 35 years that I got aggravated over what I thought was an OS or app problem that turned out to be something loose or just slightly jangled out of place.  Did you say you had checked CPU temp and HSF fan?  GPU temp?  On board temp sensors?  Get a small flashlight qnd really give your mobo a good look-see.  Get into your bios and check the health status.  Voltages?  Is your PSU drawing its last breaths?  The unusual fan activity may be the tell.  If you aren't using some sort of software fan control, my first suspicion goes to hardware.

---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-01-19
How do I check other than replace components one at a time? How do I run a good test on the hard drive for example?

---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-01-31
So far I'm back working. It got to the point where the drive wasn't even recognised in BIOS, and I had another machine with the same model of SSD drive start doing the same thing. Called Crucial and they advised a power cycle sequence and then a firmware upgrade. That seems to have fixed the problem.... for now.

Crucial Real SSD C300

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2012-01-31
Crucial has recently offered a firmware update 0309 for its Crucial m4 SSD series drives. The update is in response to issues brought to Crucial's attention for BSOD occurrences with the SSD, causing the system to require a restart. Based on Crucial's review, the issue was related to a few drives and only affected the system after 5,000 hours of actual "on-time" use. Following the initial reboot, the system then requires subsequent restarts after each additional hour of use.

[http://www.tomshardware.com/news/Crucial-m4-Firmware-BSOD,14544.html](http://www.tomshardware.com/news/Crucial-m4-Firmware-BSOD,14544.html)

---

