---
title: "Fail to boot"
date: 2010-01-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
Upon restarting (ubuntu 9.04) I get the welcome screen:
     Welcome to gilles-desktop
     Username gilles
     Password...
When I put my password in the screen blanks for a little while and then returns to the same Welcom screen.
If I put in a wrong password, it says: Login failed.
Therefore it seems that I have the right password but it still fails to boot.
How do I get pass that?
Gilles

---

### Post by nemiux on 2010-01-08
[http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/linux/reset-your-forgotten-ubuntu-password-in-2-minutes-or-less/](http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/linux/reset-your-forgotten-ubuntu-password-in-2-minutes-or-less/)
Hope this helps ;)

---

### Post by Greenwidth on 2010-01-08
Is this after a kernel upgrade?
If so can you boot to an older one?

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
No. Things were going well. I did not upgrade or change anything that I am aware of.

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
No. Things were going well. I did not upgrade or change anything that I am aware of.

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
I followed the geek instructions as closely as possible, and the result is still the same.
At one point it asked for the "Maintenance password", I gave my old password and it worked. Then I changed the passwd as instructed and carried on (sync and reboot -f), and the same thing as before continued. It accepted the new password and blanked out, then asked the same thing again. Here also if I give another password it says Login failed, which says to me that the original password was accepted.

Gilles

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
To clarify,
when I get the Welcome Screen and I give my password, I seem to enter into (somewhere). If I choose monitor, I get the regular prompt like
name@name-desktop:~$

If I knew how to enter into Gnome perhaps from there????

Gilles

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-01-08
It could be some parameter you changed it preventing the video from working correctly.
try:

startx

as that will start the graphical gnome or kde which ever you have.

If you get errors then we need to know what you changed.

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
I tried startx
Gave me a full page of text, among which
... Failed to load module "type1" (module does not exist, 0)
... Failed to load module "freetype" (module does not exist, 0)
... Warning: Type "ONE_LEVEL" has 1 levels, but <RALT> has 2 symbols   Ignoring extra 
... waiting for X server to shut down ddxSigGiveUp: Closing log

Then it return to the prompt.

???
Gilles

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-01-08
I would try:

sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get upgrade 
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop (the whole gnome environment)

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
I did the update upgrade and install Gnome environment.

It doesn't work. And the method of
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop doesn't work anymore.

I'm still stuck.

Gilles

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-08
does this also happen if you create a new user account and login with the newly created account?
to create a new account:
```
sudo adduser test
```

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
I tried adding a user and it's the same problem.
Gilles

---

### Post by Greenwidth on 2010-01-08
You could try deleting /etc/X11/xorg.conf (mv to xorg.conf.backup - to keep it if you need to move it back) so that xorg auto configures.

Or edit out the lines that load those modules.

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
This didn't help so I copied the old config back.

But this time, Desktop loaded at sudo startx. But it still won't load at the Welcome screen.

Who will be brave enough to tell me that I have lost everything I had in Desktop and in my Home directory?

And what about my two NTFS drives that are no longer visible?

Thanks for trying to help.

Gilles

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-08
could you post your xorg.conf?

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-08
Thanks to Google I figured it out: here is my xconf file

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Tue Mar 24 06:15:32 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1080_85 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
    Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-08
try deleting the lines:
```
Load "type1"
Load "freetype"
```

---

### Post by SecretCode on 2010-01-09
At the login screen, can you select 'Failsafe GNOME' from the options (lower left) > select session... menu? And does this allow booting?

Also, do you have an older kernel available? (Press Esc while the 'grub loading...' messages are displayed to get the grub menu.)

> **gilch said:**
> Who will be brave enough to tell me that I have lost everything I had in Desktop and in my Home directory?

And what about my two NTFS drives that are no longer visible?
It's unlikely that you've lost any data

> **gilch said:**
> But this time, Desktop loaded at sudo startx. But it still won't load at the Welcome screen.
When you did this, did you have your home directory?

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-10
I did find all my data. Thanks LINUX !

But I still have to go to the console, sign in and the sudo startx.

Gilles

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-10
I have the data but it is not where it is supposed to be. The desktop that opens up is completely empty. And I found my data by looking at root and home and my username.

I also just discovered that wherever this new desktop is it doesn`t have much room. I tried to download a small file and it said it didn`t have enough space to download it. ALSO it is extremely slow at doing the simplest operations, and sometimes doesn`t do the operations at all, like looking something in Google. It just stands there and says `Done`.

How nice it would be to be back where I was... so happy for the last year with Ubuntu.

Gilles

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-10
Discovered something else.<
The NEW desktop is directly under root. With it are the standard directories (none containing any of my info) Document, Music, Pictures, Public, Templates, and Videos.

My old desktop and the similar files containing my old data is under /home/gilles (my username).
?????????????

Gilles

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-10
that's because "sudo startx" starts the x session as root.
what you can try is moving your config folder. i don't remember what the config folder for gnome is, but under xfce it's ~/.config
```
mv ~/.config ~/.config.old
```

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-10
That did not help any.

My question is now: if GNOME starts in /root, what do I do to make it start in /home?

GIlles

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-11
Is this the end of the line? Nobody will help me further?
I wish to thanks those that helped me get my Ubuntu working again although it's with a pair of crutches, but I am completely out of my depth and unable to help myself.

Gilles

---

### Post by SecretCode on 2010-01-11
I'm following this thread but I don't think there's much I can help with.

Can you run *startx* without *sudo*? Because when you run as 'root', you get the home directory /root. When you run as 'normaluser', you get the home directory /home/normaluser.

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-11
> **gilch said:**
> My question is now: if GNOME starts in /root, what do I do to make it start in /home?
well, you're running it as root, so the home should be /root

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-11
> **gilch said:**
> Is this the end of the line? Nobody will help me further?
I wish to thanks those that helped me get my Ubuntu working again although it's with a pair of crutches, but I am completely out of my depth and unable to help myself.

Gilles

what you ultimately could try, however this may take a while, is re-installing the desktop environment. in synaptic click the search box and enter ubuntu-desktop then right click it and select "mark for reinstallation"

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-11
What will reinstalling the desktop do? I'm getting leary of recommendations now.

Just to make it clear, right now I have two desktops: the new one (with nothing in it), and the former one with my old data in it. The former one is in a file called /home/gilles/desktop (it is not therefore a desktop). I would like it to take the place of the new one.  (Gee... I am unclear...)

Gilles

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-11
basically, you do not have 2 desktops.
the root account can access the dekstop normally, but your normal user account cannot access the desktop.
if you know which folder holds the normal gnome configuration files, then by all means try to copy it to your profile folder. but since renaming of the ~/.config folder has lead you to nothing, i wouldn't say this is a good option.

---

### Post by gilch on 2010-01-12
I have come to the end of my rope. 

I have given up trying to resurrect my Ubuntu.

Now I'm going to install Windows 7 where Ubuntu was, and then install Ubuntu as a dual boot system. Wish me luck. I have some leads on how to go about it.

Thanks to all those who taken some of their precious time to reflect on my problems and offered solutions. 

I wish to close this thread, and start one about dual boot in Installation. I think my first question will be quite straightforward.

(I don't know how to CLOSE this thread)

Gilles

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-12
the folder for your gnome desktop settins should be ~/.gconf
try renaming the folder:
```
mv ~/.gconf ~/.gconf.old
```

if you want to close the thread, use the thread tools. there's on the right just above the top post. use Thread Tools>Close Thread

---

### Post by Milflyboy on 2011-01-22
I wish I'd come across this thread in time to possibly save you trouble. I encountered this behavior last night when I rebooted after changing /etc/fstab to use a different partition for /tmp. Fortunately I quickly thought of permissions.

/tmp is owned by root:root, but normally has mode 1777 (i.e. world readable, writable, and traversable, plus the sticky bit). The key in my case (and I'm guessing yours) was that it was no longer writable by 'other's, so the X server instance that's spawned (and which runs as you) when you login at the display manager (the graphical login screen) wasn't able to create temp files it requires and quickly exited, landing me right back at the login prompt.

While I didn't try it, if I understand things correctly, logging in at the console then running 'sudo startx' would be like logging in as root at the graphical prompt (the display manager), if there were an actual root user in Ubuntu. The resulting X server instance running with uid 0 *would* have been able to create its files in /tmp.

Anyone being thrown back to the graphical prompt as soon as they login might want to switch to a console (press Ctrl-Alt-F1), login there as yourself, and try
```
sudo chmod 1777 /tmp
exit
```
Then switch back over to the display manager (Ctrl-Alt-F7) and try logging in again.

---

