---
title: ".py files, default open action"
date: 2009-02-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shadow_code on 2009-02-09
Hi,

When I click on a .py file, the default action is to execute it. Instead, I'd like it to open in a text editor by default.

I'm not sure what would be the best way to about this? Whether it's to do with Xfce or file permissions.

I was thinking I could either:
[LIST=a]
[*]Change the permissions of all .py files to not allow executing (would this affect system scripts?)
[*]or change the default action in Thunar?
[/LIST]

Any ideas?

Thanks :)

---

### Post by braingram on 2009-02-09
I'd say look at changing the default action:
[http://thunar.xfce.org/documentation/C/working-with-files-and-folders.html](http://thunar.xfce.org/documentation/C/working-with-files-and-folders.html)
Look under: Modifying Actions
Basically I think you can just:
1. select a .py file in Thunar
2. Choose File &#8594; Properties... from the main menu. 
3. Select the new default action using the Open With button... from the drop down menu. 
I'm not using XFCE right now, so let me know if this works. If not, I can check it tonight on another computer.

---

### Post by geirha on 2009-02-09
And removing the execute bit on all .py files will almost certainly affect system scripts. I really wouldn't try that ;)

---

### Post by shadow_code on 2009-02-09
> **braingram said:**
> I'd say look at changing the default action:
[http://thunar.xfce.org/documentation/C/working-with-files-and-folders.html](http://thunar.xfce.org/documentation/C/working-with-files-and-folders.html)
Look under: Modifying Actions
Basically I think you can just:
1. select a .py file in Thunar
2. Choose File &#8594; Properties... from the main menu. 
3. Select the new default action using the Open With button... from the drop down menu. 
I'm not using XFCE right now, so let me know if this works. If not, I can check it tonight on another computer.
Na, the problem is that if a file has "execute" permissions, the execute action will override any default "open with" action. Which is why I thought it be best to remove the execute permission from all python files (perhaps only those in my home dir).

Although, I've noticed that any new python scripts I create aren't actually given the execute permission anyway. I'm thinking it might just be that files transfered from my NTFS HDD were given the execute permission for some reason.

> **geirha said:**
> And removing the execute bit on all .py files will almost certainly affect system scripts. I really wouldn't try that ;)
I was hoping any python scripts would be called by "python *script*" rather than directly calling a script. I'm not really sure though, python isn't used for any system functions in Windows :-?

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-02-09
The ntfs filesystem doesn't handle Linux file permissions, and moving a file to an ntfs partition changes its permissions to those with which the partition is mounted.  Moving them back will not magically restore the previous permissions.  If you've mounted your ntfs partition like mine, then *all* of the files on the ntfs partition are executable.

---

### Post by shadow_code on 2009-02-10
> **mb_webguy said:**
> The ntfs filesystem doesn't handle Linux file permissions, and moving a file to an ntfs partition changes its permissions to those with which the partition is mounted.  Moving them back will not magically restore the previous permissions.  If you've mounted your ntfs partition like mine, then *all* of the files on the ntfs partition are executable.

I know it doesn't handle linux permissions. But transferring from my old windows OS partition... all python files have been marked as executable.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-02-10
I think it's just the way it is, all the files on my vfat or ntfs partitions and external drives are marked executable. Anything moved to them becomes set also if not already.

As far as text files I don't know if your file manager has a setting for this, in nautilus you have 3 choices for text files set as x.
run when clicked, ask when clicked and view when clicked. Setting them to view doesn't affect their ability to run as a script. (they're still marked as x

---

