---
title: "9.04 slower than 8.10 ?"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MR.UNOWEN on 2009-04-26
So a few days back I upgraded to 9.04, but what was supposed to be an upgrade, is more of a down grade.

For some reason it's running way slower than before. If I move a window across the screen, the window bounces across rather than a smooth movement to the other side. Running firefox is frustrating as hell, it freezes every 10 min or so. Scroll down on any window takes time. If I've minimized anything for some time, it takes forever for it to reappear.

Oddly enough the CPU % is actually lower than what it was with 8.10.

How can we find out what clock rate the cpu is truely running at?
Also if I do find out what it's clock rate is and if it's bellow the norm, how can I speed it up?

---

### Post by chrisamiller on 2009-04-26
It sounds like a graphics problem to me.  What video driver are you using.  When I upgraded, I had to go into System>Administration>Hardware Drivers to re-enable the NVIDIA driver.  You may have to do the same.

---

### Post by MR.UNOWEN on 2009-04-26
I'm using the EEE PC 1000HA...  what would I need to enable...

---

### Post by perrti-y02 on 2009-04-26
How is RAM usage? I upgraded to 9.04 and found that RAM got eaten lots. My machine has started to use the SWAP space which it has NEVER done before.

---

### Post by MR.UNOWEN on 2009-04-26
There's no memory problem on my end. The only issue is that it's slow.

---

### Post by nextstepusr33 on 2009-04-26
:( I Feel it is same on my end of the line, RAM is not really affected but when i do certain applications i often have a reduced performanced, some should report and tell other users that Ubuntu 9.04 is slow and still buggy!

---

### Post by Phasma on 2009-04-27
Jaunty does not specify a non FB video driver on my eeepc (1000he)

After setting the driver manual in the xorg.conf file the system was much much more responsive

---

### Post by bataak on 2009-04-27
> **perrti-y02 said:**
> How is RAM usage? I upgraded to 9.04 and found that RAM got eaten lots. My machine has started to use the SWAP space which it has NEVER done before.

me too. It's ok, when I startup (memory 15%). But it eats lots of memory (memory 40-50%) when I running application and ending it. Apparently it never reduce (~40%).

---

### Post by Sprut1 on 2009-04-27
> **nextstepusr33 said:**
> :( I Feel it is same on my end of the line, RAM is not really affected but when i do certain applications i often have a reduced performanced, some should report and tell other users that Ubuntu 9.04 is slow and still buggy!

Please explain further. Just because you are having trouble doesn't mean everyone else will have them too.

---

### Post by MR.UNOWEN on 2009-04-27
0_0....  can some one fix this soon...  I can't stand it....  IT"S TOO SLOW!!!!  and freezes a lot...

---

### Post by Xtyn on 2009-04-29
If these problems are on the Eee PC try this:
[Reverting to an older kernel under Ubuntu]("http://distrowatch.com/weekly.php?issue=20090420#tips")

---

### Post by bl4ckadam on 2009-05-06
i was experiencing overall sluggishness and very cpu intensive flash in firefox. 

i disabled cpu scaling and noticed a big difference in overall performance. i never had cpu scaling enabled in previous versions - i don't know if this is because of the new open source radeon driver since i always used fglrx untill now.

flash is stil cpu intensive but not as much as before and my system overall feels more responsive.

---

### Post by StormRoBoT2 on 2009-05-06
try use new kernel 2.6.28-12  << boot and system load faster then the old kernel 2.6.28-11

---

### Post by RiffRaff06078 on 2009-05-19
I, too, have noticed a very specific type sluggishness that was not present in my previous 8.10 installation.  My problem is in opening or saving files.  For example, when saving a PDF attachment from Thunderbird, it takes 21 seconds from the time I click "Save As" until the dialog box pops up letting me specify a location to save.

Also, when opening a file from Open Office, the application becomes completely unresponsive for the exact same 21 seconds before I get a dialog box allowing me to select a file to open.

My CPU usage is not unusually high, and I am using about 50% of my 4 GB of RAM.  My swap file is hardly touched.

In reading some other comments, I do have the ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX video driver enabled.  This does seem to be a common theme, but I'm not having any other sluggishness issues that might be explained by the video driver mentioned in other posts.

Any thoughts on this?

---

### Post by RiffRaff06078 on 2009-05-21
Well, for what it's worth, uninstalling Compiz and using Metacity seems to have resolved a huge chunk of my problems with 9.04.

Question: Would these problems be present in a fresh install of 9.04 versus an upgrade from 8.10?

---

### Post by cditty on 2009-05-21
I have the same problem that RiffRaff06078 is having.  That is why I am browsing here today.  Need to find a solution to that problem.

---

### Post by RiffRaff06078 on 2009-05-27
Update:

I have more information that might narrow this problem down.  Right now as it stands I have to manually run *sudo metacity --replace* and let it run in the background every time I reboot.  I have tried wiping out my .gnome2 directory and rebooting, with no change.  I tried reconfiguring Xorg by running *dpkg*, but that screwed it up even worse; I couldn't even get a login prompt.  Had to log in to a shell and put one of the Xorg backups into place.

Also, the problem I am experiencing does not occur for another user account, so it points to something in my home directory; I'm just not sure what at this point.

Anyone have any suggestions yet?

---

### Post by Mazin on 2009-05-27
> **MR.UNOWEN said:**
> 
How can we find out what clock rate the cpu is truely running at?
Also if I do find out what it's clock rate is and if it's bellow the norm, how can I speed it up?

If CPU frequency is what you're worried about, there is a panel applet to monitor the CPU frequency.  The speedstepping atom processor will automatically adjust its frequency depending on how much you use it.

Your case, however, sounds more like a graphics driver issue.  It would be helpful if Phasma could enlighten us on what he did...

---

### Post by ActiveFrost on 2009-05-27
Visualization and stability requires more RAM - what's so weird in the fact that 9.04 eats more of it ?

---

### Post by naveen91 on 2009-06-25
really jaunty is too slow on my think pad R61 
sometimes the hole thing freezes & i'd be left with no other choice but to restart my thinkpad :( .. i'm very disappointed by jaunty's performance 
i'm using amd64 version it sucks reallyyy

---

### Post by gozzy345 on 2009-08-14
Yep, I have the same thing. Just got Ubuntu 9.04, and it was really slow. Might go to the  previous release until Karic comes out.
I heard it might be to do with Intel. What's that about?

---

