---
title: "9.10 Google Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Konqueror - No Sound flash video sudo"
date: 2010-02-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cscott0108 on 2010-02-24
I am using 64bit Kubuntu 9.10. I am having a problem with sound on my browsers, all of them Google Chrome, Firefox 3.6, Opera, and Konqueror. If my browsers are in local user mode when I go to sites such as youtube and the like. However if I open in a terminal and type 'sudo  google-chrome, or sudo firefox' and go to youtube the sound works. this leaves em to believe that this is a permissions issue but I cannot figure out what needs to be done, I have checked I have the current version of the Adobe Flash. Again it seems as if it is a permission issue for any help Thanks.

---

### Post by drink_stir on 2010-02-25
if the sudo commands work why not just make a button that is sudo... im not sure about permissions and all that. my firefox button is setup as "firefox %u" and ive never had a problem like that.

---

### Post by DeMus on 2010-02-25
> **drink_stir said:**
> if the sudo commands work why not just make a button that is sudo... im not sure about permissions and all that. my firefox button is setup as "firefox %u" and ive never had a problem like that.

NEVER do that. It makes the computer vulnerable for intruders when you open a webbrowser in sudo mode. Never ever do that.

For the OP: I have no idea what is wrong in your computer, so I can not help you, but I wanted to warn you not to do what drink_stir advised you to do.

---

### Post by cscott0108 on 2010-02-25
Thanks, although I know about the issue with sudo. I only did it to test my sound and proved it worked.

---

### Post by drink_stir on 2010-02-25
i did not mean to give bad advice. as i have not had this problem i just read your post and assumed what might be correct. i apologize. and thank you for this tidbit of advice. i did not know this.

---

### Post by cscott0108 on 2010-02-26
> **drink_stir said:**
> i did not mean to give bad advice. as i have not had this problem i just read your post and assumed what might be correct. i apologize. and thank you for this tidbit of advice. i did not know this.

That is alright, it is good advice to give out anyways. in case a total n008 reads it. so no problems :)

---

### Post by puzzler995 on 2010-02-26
I have the same problem with the 32 bit Ubuntu 9.10 Flash in Firefox.  It probably is a permissions problem if it happens, and is fixed, the same way in the polar versions of Ubuntu. I will start snooping around to see if I can find the problem. We may just have to report this to Adobe. 

I will try GNASH and see if that works. If not it is probably a problem with the flash APIs.

---

### Post by cscott0108 on 2010-02-26
> **puzzler995 said:**
> I have the same problem with the 32 bit Ubuntu 9.10 Flash in Firefox.  It probably is a permissions problem if it happens, and is fixed, the same way in the polar versions of Ubuntu. I will start snooping around to see if I can find the problem. We may just have to report this to Adobe. 

I will try GNASH and see if that works. If not it is probably a problem with the flash APIs.

I just fixed my problem thanks to another post those multimedia & Video guys in that forum know their stuff.
Try this first at [Ubuntu Forums.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578")

But did not work for me, what I did was,
Remove the required packages

sudo apt-get remove pulseaudio

sudo apt-get install esound

Now remove the 70pulseaudio file

Before removing make a backup of this file

sudo cp /etc/X11/Xsession.d/70pulseaudio /etc/X11/Xsession.d/70pulseaudio.back

sudo rm /etc/X11/Xsession.d/70pulseaudio

[COLOR="DeepSkyBlue"]In 9.10 Kubuntu I did not have to do this.

Now go to System -> Preferences -> Sound

Make sure they are all set to &#8216;Autodetect&#8217;.

The only one you will have to set manually to ALSA is &#8216;Sound Capture&#8217; under &#8216;Audio Conferencing&#8217;.

Note:-At this point Pulseaudio is now nolonger an option under these drop menus.

Gnome Sessions

Go to System -> Preferences -> Sessions

Deselected or Remove the Pulseaudio Manager[/COLOR]

I did this.
cd ~

cp .asound* /home/chris/asound\ backup/

rm .asound*

then rebooted, this solved my issue, now all of my browsers get sound with out Super User permissions.

*Note - When you remove pulseaudio or install esound, the package manager also removes the metapackage ubuntu-desktop. Don&#8217;t worry, this file is used only for upgrades between Ubuntu releases. Just make sure you install it before upgrading. If you do clean installs between releases, then you don&#8217;t need to worry about it. Nevertheless it is recommended to fix pulseaudio configuration instead of removing it.

These were found at [ubuntugeek.]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-remove-pulse-audio-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex.html")

---

