---
title: ".ithmb conversion"
date: 2010-08-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xtremesupremacy3 on 2010-08-07
Hey,

I know must of the people here are now leaning towards the Android but I was one of the dumb ones to sign up a contract for the iPhone 3G about 2 months before the Android was released.

Well, thank you Ubuntu for letting Ubuntu work with the iPhone for music and the like. But heres my dilemma.

I set up my iPhone using my mothers Vista system with my own picture albums and music on it. Great thing is that I am able to update my music using Rhythmbox(ftw) and I am able to view the images I have taken using F-Spot...But unfortunately there is nothing I can do with my pictures that are within categories. I like some organisation across my images. Is there a way on Linux I can convert .ithmb files? Or maybe I can get an app on the iPhone that I can organise my pictures with but is also recognised by F-Spot, if it helps, my phone is jailbroken.

Arthur

---

### Post by xtremesupremacy3 on 2010-08-08
Well it is not exactly the total fix, but I have found a way to get around it a little bit.

It does not allow you to use the iPhone's built in photo albums and you can only use the photo roll. But I got it working a little to suit my needs. Please note that this is only for jailbroken iPhones according to my knowledge.

Firstly I downloaded a program called 'Renamer' which can be found here: [http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Renamer?content=87601]("http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Renamer?content=87601")
Secondly I found a script for converting jpg files to another type which wasn't really the type I needed so I have altered the script to suit my needs.

I copied all the pictures I want on my iphone into a folder on my desktop named 'Iphone pics' and put the script into there also.
I opened the folder with the pics in there and using right-click, then scripts then 'renamer' I left all the settings as they were and inserted the following in the options box
```
IMG_0/num3+001/.JPG
```
After running that, it renamed all the files in that folder to the correct naming process that is required by the iPhone, I then opened up a terminal, cd-ed to the 'iphone pics' folder and ran the script that I have attached. This created .thm files for every jpg image with the right size needed.

After this I created an SSH session with my iPhone (make sure you have SSH installed on iphone and turned on, the default username is 'root' and password 'alpine')
Then I moved to /private/var/mobile/media/ and then to the folder where all the pictures taken are stored, there i copied and pasted all the .jpg files I renamed earlier, then showing the hidden files I found a folder hidden in which I pasted all the .thm files created by the script. 

After this I looked for a photo manager which I found and now just make albums on the fly, whilst it is all being recognised by F-Spot or Shotwell. 

This all sounds like so much to do but it took me a total of 20 seconds to do.

If you would like the script, please let me know.

Since this is probably as far as we can momentarily get to manipulating images on the iphone, I am going to mark this as solved.

Arthur

---

