---
title: "9.04 vs. Earlier releases"
date: 2009-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by prem1er on 2009-05-06
Hey everyone,
  I have not been around these forums or even Ubuntu long enough to form an opinion about this one way or the other, so I wanted to ask the members for your thoughts.  I started using the forums much more frequently for the last two major releases of Ubuntu (8.10 and 9.04), so that is as far as my knowledge goes back. I understand that Jaunty has been out for less than a month, but it seems that there is a lot of discussion about it around the forums. My questions are these. How do you feel about the release of Jaunty?  Have you noticed more problems being reported on the forums or with the bug tracker in comparison to other releases?  What sorts of problems have you been noticing that you have/have not noticed with earlier releases? Is there anything you expected in the Jaunty release that wasn't included?

Thanks and I look forward to hearing from you!

---

### Post by John Cheng on 2009-05-06
From what I've read on the forum, it doesn't look like 9.04 is decidedly good or bad. However, I get the impression it is more painful people with older ATI cards.

From my personal experience (look up my blog in my profile), I had a few minor issues. I would not recommend anyone upgrading just because.

---

### Post by Spiritous on 2009-05-06
Probably better, the Dual-Screen Support is greatly improved, and network support. For me, anyway ;-)

---

### Post by prem1er on 2009-05-06
> **Spiritous said:**
> Probably better, the Dual-Screen Support is greatly improved, and network support. For me, anyway ;-)

Have heard dual-screen support is much better. Network support has gotten worse since 9.04 for me.

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-05-06
I still have one small problem for which I found a workaround. Everything else is working fine. It's faster than the previous version (8.0.4) which I liked also.
In Jaunty installing the right videodriver was a piece of cake since a driver was installed already automatically. All I needed to do was using the driver manager to install the propriety driver. This went without any problem. Maybe somebody learned from all the problems there were in Hardy and perhaps also Intrepid.

Just as with the arrival of Intrepid many people write they have problems. That stopped me from upgrading to Intrepid. This time I wanted something new and did choose for Jaunty, although Hardy was working great for me.

Many problems come from installing Jaunty as an update to an earlier version. I did a clean install so all is brand new. I do get a feeling when reading the forum that updating does not always work so well.

Does this asnwer your question a bit?

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-06
Jaunty is much better, at least the 64-bit version, in terms of speed.

Everything is working as it should. I see you've got a ATi 3650, so you should be fine with it, too.

---

### Post by Marlonsm on 2009-05-06
For me it's much better.

Jaunty didn't bring any new killer feature, but it's overall more polished. (At least for me)

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-05-06
I've been using Ubuntu since 5.04, and every time new version is released the forums fill with people complaining about it's problems and how it's so much worse than the old version was, and recommending for every single user asking (and possibly not even asking) that they should not upgrade/install the latest version but get the old one instead.

Personally, I've found every single Ubuntu version to be better than any of the previous ones. Both in features and in performance.

I suppose it's just that such a large changes as OS update will always cause some things to break on some unlucky persons computer. Possibly because the machine uses some rare hardware, or because the person in question has heavily customized his setup, or possibly just because of bad luck. When this happens these people will be more likely to come and post about their (bad) experience on web forums than all those people who did the update and everything just worked like they expected. And of course some people just hate it when things change and they might start doing something in a slightly different way than before. Even Linux users can be like that.

When reading support forums like this you really have to always keep in mind that most of the time people will ask questions here when they have problems, not when they don't have any. I mean, just imagine what the forum would be like if people made a new thread here every time when something works as expected.. :D

So, if the a release is out, and people are clearly using it, you shouldn't let some disappointed person to stop you from trying it yourself and seeing if it works for you.

---

### Post by kemorc on 2009-05-06
Jaunty is weighing my computer down... I have no clue what is hogging my RAM, but according to my "System Monitor", over a gig of ram is currently being engulfed and all that I have running is that and firefox.

After time, it gets progressively worse and worse to the point that I have to reboot and start fresh at 300MB

---

### Post by jonobr on 2009-05-06
Jaunty is working fine for me after my upgrade.
I miss the Ibex desktop, that was nice, but no real major problems after the upgrade.

I usually sit back and see if there are any major hum dinger problems and then eventually upgrade out of curiosity.

I do notice the installation seems to take up more space,

---

### Post by Marlonsm on 2009-05-06
> **mcduck said:**
> i've been using ubuntu since 5.04, and every time new version is released the forums fill with people complaining about it's problems and how it's so much worse than the old version was, and recommending for every single user asking (and possibly not even asking) that they should not upgrade/install the latest version but get the old one instead.

Personally, i've found every single ubuntu version to be better than any of the previous ones. Both in features and in performance.

I suppose it's just that such a large changes as os update will always cause some things to break on some unlucky persons computer. Possibly because the machine uses some rare hardware, or because the person in question has heavily customized his setup, or possibly just because of bad luck. When this happens these people will be more likely to come and post about their (bad) experience on web forums than all those people who did the update and everything just worked like they expected. And of course some people just hate it when things change and they might start doing something in a slightly different way than before. Even linux users can be like that.

When reading support forums like this you really have to always keep in mind that most of the time people will ask questions here when they have problems, not when they don't have any. I mean, just imagine what the forum would be like if people made a new thread here every time when something works as expected.. :d

so, if the a release is out, and people are clearly using it, you shouldn't let some disappointed person to stop you from trying it yourself and seeing if it works for you.

+1

---

### Post by mark2741 on 2009-05-06
I used Ubuntu as my primary OS starting with 6.04 (I think that was the version). I really liked Ubuntu a lot and also learned alot. 

About a year later, without researching (mistake!) first whether it would be compatible with Ubuntu, I went and bought a brand new HP PC (a multimedia one with all the options...tv tuner, remote control, etc). Ubuntu would constantly crash on it so I stuck with the Windows XP Media Center Edition that came with the PC. Every time a new Ubuntu release would come out over the past 2 years I'd try the live CD and then maybe install into a separate partition, but always something wouldn't work right. Last two releases it was dual-display issues, which is a show-stopper for me as I can't live without dual-displays : )

A few days ago I tried a live CD of Mandriva and it seemed to work well with dual displays, but then when I installed it to my spare partition and ran the real thing it was a dog. So, with a fresh copy of the 9.04 iso on DVD I installed it without trying it via the live CD first and...

I'm happy to report that Jaunty is great, and I'm back on Ubuntu as my primary OS. I've been running it for 3 days straight without any issues. Dual displays working great. 

But now I'm finding I've forgotten so much about linux, and things have changed : ) I can't even figure out how to install these new 'PPA' theme packages for example : ) I don't ever remember those back in 2006.

---

### Post by prem1er on 2009-05-07
> **mark2741 said:**
> I used Ubuntu as my primary OS starting with 6.04 (I think that was the version). I really liked Ubuntu a lot and also learned alot. 

About a year later, without researching (mistake!) first whether it would be compatible with Ubuntu, I went and bought a brand new HP PC (a multimedia one with all the options...tv tuner, remote control, etc). Ubuntu would constantly crash on it so I stuck with the Windows XP Media Center Edition that came with the PC. Every time a new Ubuntu release would come out over the past 2 years I'd try the live CD and then maybe install into a separate partition, but always something wouldn't work right. Last two releases it was dual-display issues, which is a show-stopper for me as I can't live without dual-displays : )

A few days ago I tried a live CD of Mandriva and it seemed to work well with dual displays, but then when I installed it to my spare partition and ran the real thing it was a dog. So, with a fresh copy of the 9.04 iso on DVD I installed it without trying it via the live CD first and...

I'm happy to report that Jaunty is great, and I'm back on Ubuntu as my primary OS. I've been running it for 3 days straight without any issues. Dual displays working great. 

But now I'm finding I've forgotten so much about linux, and things have changed : ) I can't even figure out how to install these new 'PPA' theme packages for example : ) I don't ever remember those back in 2006.

I'm with you on this one.  I had a Dell that worked great with ubuntu that I used 7.10 with.  The board eventually died on me and I purchased a new Asus with all the options.  Unfortunately, ubuntu didn't play very well with it and was stuck with VISTA!  The release of 9.04 has fixed MOST of my hardware issues and I am back on Ubuntu.  That is one of the reason why I wrote this post.  If I still had my old dell (RIP) than I could have kept current and updated Ubuntu as I saw fit, but instead I have nothing to compare 9.04 with.  I really enjoy 9.04 besides some small issues I have been having. It is a much more polished looking version with many user friendly options available to newer users and also a powerful list of command line tools.

---

### Post by wjstarck on 2009-05-07
I've found it to be much faster. Support for desktop effects seems to have improved as well. All in all, I'm glad I upgraded. Good luck

---

### Post by hpartidas on 2009-05-07
> **kemorc said:**
> Jaunty is weighing my computer down... I have no clue what is hogging my RAM, but according to my "System Monitor", over a gig of ram is currently being engulfed and all that I have running is that and firefox.

After time, it gets progressively worse and worse to the point that I have to reboot and start fresh at 300MB

Thats most likely to be firefox. After FF3.0 was released if I have more than 10 tabs open firefox uses atleast 700MB of memory.

---

### Post by prem1er on 2009-05-08
Firefox is verrrrry slow for me as well on 9.04.

---

### Post by Tipped OuT on 2009-05-08
Everything is fine and dandy for me. :P

---

### Post by kemorc on 2009-05-08
In my school... we've come to the conclusion that if you have anything ATI in your computer, don't bother with Jaunty.  There are several things in Jaunty that'll just lock up your computer because it pretty much hogs all resources to your CPU... requiring a hard reset.

---

