---
title: "10.04 LTS has issues with video glitching"
date: 2011-09-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by roh8880 on 2011-09-20
Ok, I have an interesting problem. I just did a fresh install of 10.04 LTS and every format of video that I attempt to play (either online or downloaded) plays for a little bit then makes a buzz/cracking sound and fast forwards or crashes that window. The sound goes out after that also, fixable only by rebooting. Then it will do it again. 

Is there something that I missed?

I would ask my cat to fix it, but he doesn't have opposable thumbs!

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-09-20
> **roh8880 said:**
> Ok, I have an interesting problem. I just did a fresh install of 10.04 LTS and every format of video that I attempt to play (either online or downloaded) plays for a little bit then makes a buzz/cracking sound and fast forwards or crashes that window. The sound goes out after that also, fixable only by rebooting. Then it will do it again. 

Is there something that I missed?

I would ask my cat to fix it, but he doesn't have opposable thumbs!
would that be flash video or some other format?
which, 32-bits or 64-bits ubuntu?

---

### Post by roh8880 on 2011-09-20
32 bit.

Flash, mpg, mp4, or any other format does it, online or otherwise.

---

### Post by roh8880 on 2011-09-21
Bump . . .

---

### Post by roh8880 on 2011-09-23
Anyone?

---

### Post by alquery on 2011-09-23
What's the model of your graphics card and sound card? You might have a card with a buggy driver.

---

### Post by roh8880 on 2011-09-24
I have an NVIDIA graphics card with the latest drivers installed. Including the proprietary drivers allowed by NVIDIA Accelerated Graphics Drivers.

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-09-25
> **roh8880 said:**
> 32 bit.

Flash, mpg, mp4, or any other format does it, online or otherwise.
disable compiz desktop effects and see if it fix's the problem

---

### Post by roh8880 on 2011-09-27
They weren't active.
I may just go out and buy a new video card.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-09-27
Try setting or unsetting 'Sync to VBlack', both in Xvideo and OpenGL settings on the 'Nvidia X Server Settings'.

Could you tell us more about your hardware?
Which model is your Nvidia card?
What is your CPU and RAM?

Regards.

---

