---
title: "11.04 wont mount iPhone 3gs"
date: 2011-09-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nidding on 2011-09-15
When I plug in my new iphone 3gs instead of mounting, i get the message 
"Unable to mount Iphone
DBus error org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NoReply: Message did not receive a reply (timeout by message bus"
As I really would like to get some music on to this thing, I would be very happy if anyone had a solution to this.

---

### Post by Nidding on 2011-09-20
Bump

---

### Post by Nidding on 2011-09-20
Dudes, don't make me need to have to dual boot here :confused:

---

### Post by EdgarGonzalez on 2011-09-29
I'm using Ubuntu 11.04 in a dell xps l502x and Ubuntu don't mount mount neither my iphone 4 or my iPod Touch. But I got no error message.

---

### Post by tamouse on 2011-11-16
> **Nidding said:**
> When I plug in my new iphone 3gs instead of mounting, i get the message 
"Unable to mount Iphone
DBus error org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NoReply: Message did not receive a reply (timeout by message bus"
As I really would like to get some music on to this thing, I would be very happy if anyone had a solution to this.

This seems odd as I have no problem mounting my 3g iphone... It uses gvfs and shows two directories under $HOME/.gvfs:

```

$ ll .gvfs
total 0
drwx------ 1 tamara tamara   0 1969-12-31 18:00 Documents on Tamara Temple’s iPhone/
drwx------ 1 tamara tamara 476 2011-08-13 03:07 Tamara Temple’s iPhone/

```

---

### Post by hgroover on 2012-02-08
On my 3gs, I get the same problem reported by original poster. Settings / General / About reports version 4.2.1.

Repeated attempts get the same result (Dbus timeout error).

Connecting to my Ubuntu 10.10 x64 system, all goes well - it automounts and I get the prompt to open Shotwell or Rhythmbox.

---

### Post by WoollyW on 2012-02-18
11.04 64bit won't mount my iPhone 3G either... no recognition at all.

Any suggestions? I've worked through another thread that uses the ifuse & 'device pair & unpair' method through terminal but that only results in a "there is no phone" message..

Kinda getting ready to throw this phone out of the window, as without bluetooth or a way to transfer images & music via the data cable, it's no use to me at all! (slow internet connection makes Ubuntu one painful to use)

---

