---
title: "Mystery desktop configuration file [Resolved]"
date: 2007-03-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zorkerz on 2007-03-21
I have a mystery icon in places->computer named MUSIC.  It is unmounted, if i try to mount it nothing happens. Under properties its type is displayed as a desktop configuration file located in Computer:///  Its owner in unknown and its read only. I can see the make, model, serial#, firmware and connection type of the kind of drive it supposedly is even though there is nothing plugged into my computer. It even says it is 22.2gb fat32. I imagine i plugged in some drive at one point and for some reason it did not go away and continues not to after rebooting.  How do i remove this so it does not show up all the time.  Thanx

---

### Post by airtonix on 2007-03-21
edit fstab and see if you see a line in there that has this listed...

look for the word vfat and also try to match up some info from the desktop info file with something that you see in the fstab file..

better yet just post the contents of the fstab file here.

---

### Post by zorkerz on 2007-03-21
fstab
> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda3 :
UUID=f84e3fcd-7f68-415a-8ca1-38a2d9b2f063 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=ac246e46-a8c9-4faa-8ea0-cb7486b4e7a1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=08C082F6E8D4C961 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=4454-68F0 /media/music vfat umask=000 0 0
ok so the bottom entry (/dev/hda2) has the same uuid and is vfat. unfortunately this refers to an actual partition on my drive mounted at /media/music not MUSIC

as you can see ntfs config made this fstab it is not done the way i have done it before (as directed by ubuntuguide.org) ntfs-config is related to ntfs-3g and gives me read/write access to my windows partition /dev/hda2
This problem however did not show up until i upgraded to feisty which was after ntfs-3g was installed.  Thanks help

---

### Post by zorkerz on 2007-03-26
ok solved my problem. I commented out the music partition in fstab. Restarted the computer then uncommented the music partition and restarted again. Now i no longer have the MUSIC laying around.  This is very odd behavior i wonder what could have caused it?

---

