---
title: "10.04 desktop and Samba"
date: 2010-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by revmook on 2010-11-12
I kinda feel like this has been beaten to death in other threads, but I could not find a solution that specifically addresses my problem.  I've been working on this for 3 hours and need to stop because  I'm frustrated.  Here we go...

I can't connect to a samba share on the desktop (places>network>WORKGROUP)  What I end up with is a dialog box that says, opening WORKGROUP, followed by another dialog box that says unable to mount location/ failed to retrieve share list from server.

If I type smbtree in a terminal, I can see all my shares listed.
I've installed smbfs, and can mount a share in a terminal by typing :
sudo mount -t smbfs //ipaddress/share/ /mount_point

I've purged and reinstalled samba, threw away my smb.conf file and replaced with the default.

I still can't mount the shares from the desktop!  On top of all this, it worked last week when I was on this box.

What's going on?  It's got to be simple.

---

### Post by bioterror on 2010-11-12
I do my shares like this, I edit /etc/samba/smb.conf by adding these kind of lines:


```

[Photos]
comment = Family photos
path = /home/ubuntu-user/Pictures/Photo_album/
available = yes
browsable = yes
public = yes
writable = yes
create mask = 0777
directory mask = 0777
force user = ubuntu-user
force group = ubuntu-user

```

replace 'ubuntu-user' with your username.
Tell me if it works.

---

### Post by revmook on 2010-11-18
I don't think forcing groups and users would work in my situation.  I have 2 desktops and and two servers all running samba, and they all talk to each other fine.  OS's range from Ubuntu, Debian and freeBSD.  The Ubuntu computer used to see all these shares and now it says "unable to mount location/ failed to retrieve share list from server."

On the same computer, running smbtree in a terminal lists all the shares in the office.  I don't get it.  Anything else I can check?

edit - I have a OS X laptop and I can mount it's share fine.

I'm thinking I might have uninstalled a package or something.

---

