---
title: "9.10 not fully loading KDE desktop"
date: 2010-02-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-02-25
This has happened to me twice in a row while installing kubuntu 9.10 on the same machine:

I get the OS installed and it prompts me to reboot the machine.  I do so.  On the first reboot, the KDE login screen never loads, and I just get a blank black screen.

I then do a hard reset.  From there, everything appears to work.  I use the machine for awhile and all is well.  For whatever reason, I end up rebooting, and when I log back in to KDE, not only do I not get my custom wallpaper, but I also don't get any desktop icons, a taskbar, etc.  Right-clicks don't even work.  The only thing that was loaded both times was the terminal that I had left open the last time.  

I have no idea why this occurs.  I'm in the middle of installing it for the third time today.  Can anyone provide any insight?

---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-02-26
Bump

---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-02-26
Well, I just figured out what the CAUSE is.  If I switch my window appearance to Klearlooks, the desktop will not come back.

How on earth can I switch back it something else via the shell??

---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-02-26
Not sure if this is related:

[http://www.mail-archive.com/debian-openoffice@lists.debian.org/msg21828.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/debian-openoffice@lists.debian.org/msg21828.html)

---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-02-26
Eureka - I fixed it by setting it back to oxygen via the shell.  My kdeglobals file was in /home/$USER/.kde/share/config/kdeglobals

[http://techbase.kde.org/Projects/KDE_on_Windows/Installation#Set_Oxygen_style_for_widgets](http://techbase.kde.org/Projects/KDE_on_Windows/Installation#Set_Oxygen_style_for_widgets)

 Set Oxygen style for widgets

The default KDE widget style on Windows is the native one. The Oxygen style installs with basic KDE installation (as a plugin library %KDEROOT%\lib\kde4\plugins\styles\oxygen.dll), so it can be used as well. To set it for a single user:

   1. edit kdeglobals
   2. locate the General section (a line containing the text "[General]"). If there is no General section, create one.
   3. Within the General section ([General]), edit the line containing widgetStyle=.... so that it reads widgetStyle=oxygen. If there is no such widgetStyle=... line, create it. 

Newly started applications should be displayed with the Oxygen style now.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-02-26
Can someone else confirm this on their machine so I can submit this as a bug?

Also, would this be a KDE bug or a Kubuntu bug?

---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-02-26
Bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/+bug/528523](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/+bug/528523)

---

### Post by leveliv on 2010-03-13
Bro you definately just had a conversation with yourself via Thread posts. Awesome!! 

And now my woes. Whenever I select KDE as a session and login KDE doesnt start, it'll do that splash screen/start up sound but then nothing loads. except Gnome-do

---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-04-04
What window decorations did you select in KDE?  Go back and read my monologue carefully.

---

