---
title: "[...] but it is not going to be installed"
date: 2011-02-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by quaakfrosch on 2011-02-25
Hi everyone

I have the following problem: I want to install anthy (an input method for Japanese text) on my laptop, running with eeebuntu 4 (with upgrades).

When I tried to do this with synaptic, I recieved the error message "Depends: libanthy0 but it is not going to be installed". So I installed libanthy0 manually (along with anthy-common, on which libanthy0 depends); but when I tried again to install anthy afterwards, I recieved the message "to be removed: anthy-common, libanthy0" and then  "Depends: libanthy0 but it is not going to be installed" again.

When I try to install anthy using apt-get, I get the following output:

[I]> sudo apt-get install -f anthy
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  anthy: Depends: libanthy0 (= 9100h-3) but it is not going to be installed
E: Broken packages[/I]

From *> sudo apt-get install libanthy0* I get

[I]Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
libanthy0 is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 191 not upgraded.[/I]

Removing libanthy0 and reinstalling it via apt-get hasn't changed anything.

Does anyone know how to solve this problem? (I have tried to find it on this page and with google, and although I have found several similar posts, the solutions seemed rather specific to me and didn't help. Still, I'm sorry if I'm asking something that has already been answered somewhere.)

I would appreciate any help!

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2011-02-25
Hi,
Try using these commands to see if it helps:

```
sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg --configure -a

```

Now try installing anthy again after reloading your repositories:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install anthy
```

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by quaakfrosch on 2011-02-26
Dear Ankspo71

thank you for your quick reply! Your suggestion didn't work exactly like that, but after I added the debian unstable repositories it worked.

Thank you!

---

### Post by safwanlmu on 2012-04-27
Why does it say "SOLVED"  on the top. very confusing!!

---

### Post by plucky on 2012-04-27
> **safwanlmu said:**
> Why does it say "SOLVED"  on the top. very confusing!!

Did you read the post above yours 

> but after I added the debian unstable repositories it worked.


---

