---
title: "System&gt;Preferences&gt;Display gone Blank"
date: 2009-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by larius on 2009-05-05
Hello

I hope this is the right place to post this...

I've had Ubuntu for a year now, but remain a technical quasi-noob.

I recently installed Jaunty (32) in a separate partition to my old Hardy (64). After having a couple of problems with the install, I reinstalled.

A moment ago I went to System>Preferences>Display, then clicked "check monitor". The whole system slowed down for long minutes, finally told me it couldn't find a monitor.
Then I clicked the 75 Hz option.
This time, the Display window went blank and slowed down the whole computer again for unknown time (I restarted after a few minutes). Now every time I go to System>Preferences>Display, I get the blank window and system slowdown.

Now, this doesn't prevent me from working, but  knowing there's a glitch waiting silently somewhere is really annoying...

Anybody have a clue what is causing this? Anything I should check?

Thanks,

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-05
Try this in Terminal (it will reset the Display configuration tool)..

```
rm ~/.config/monitors.xml
```

---

### Post by larius on 2009-05-18
Hi and thank you!

I tried the rm command in the terminal.

First time I tried, nothing happened (no confirmation). But the display problem remained.

Second time I tried, this is the message I get in terminal :

rm : cannot remove '/home/laurent/config/monitors.xml' : No such file or directory

And the problem with the Preferences->Display window remains : blank window, computer slows to a crawl...

Note 1 : when I force quit the display, computer more or less returns to normal
Note 2 : I believe my graphic server crashed twice already (black screen).

Should I have this file? Or does the reset remove it? 

Thanks again

L

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-18
Post a copy of /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Open it by: sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Also post a copy of /home/laurent/.config/monitors.xml

---

### Post by larius on 2009-05-19
Hi and thanks again!
Here is the xorg.conf file :

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection

---

### Post by larius on 2009-05-19
...  and there is no /home/laurent/.config/monitors.xml file.

=> gedit opens a blank file, and it doesn't exist in in the filesystem hidden files.

---

