---
title: "10.04 to 10.10 install, now no GUI"
date: 2010-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-10-17
Dell Latitude D505 laptop, was running 10.04 without problems, all updates done to date. 

I chose to move to 10.10 with the Software Updater app, and the downloading and installation seemed to go fine yesterday.    10.10 installation ended with Restart, but from that point on, I can't get farther than the login-xxx $ prompt.

I then tried booting from a Live CD 10.04, to at least copy my Home folder to a USB drive, so I booted from the CD, chose Try Without Installing, made Language Choice English, hear lots of CD activity, get the opening graphic ubuntu screen with red/white dots for about ten seconds, then a completely blank screen and no further activity.  Have to force the laptop off by holding the power button down.

Using a Live CD 10.04 choosing Install to HD, same blank screen result.

Booting from laptop's start button without the CD, I see Dell flash screen, then Grub Loading, then graphic ubuntu with red/white dots, then about 20 lines of code (e.g. [32.319782] type=1503, audit xxxxxxxxxx etc.), then Ubuntu 10.10 machine-laptop login.

Before I can entire my login name, "tty1" appears, then the machine freezes at a flashing _ cursor.  I again see machine-laptop login:, and enter my login, then prompt for password.   I enter my password, see Last login, Linux machine-laptop 2.6.31-19-generic #56-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jan 28, Welcome to Ubuuntu! Documentation [https://help.ubuntu.com/](https://help.ubuntu.com/)

Then the line:

machine@machine-laptop:~$ 
followed by the flashing _ cursor.

Can't get any further.

Any suggestions to help?

Thanks.
Tom

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-17
Have you tried typing startx

---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-10-17
> **Hippytaff said:**
> Have you tried typing startx

Thanks for the suggestion.  Just tried startx at the $ prompt and got:

xauth creating new authority file

then about a dozen lines ending with 

ee vesa kernel modesetting driver in use, refusing to load
ee fbdev0 fbioput vscreeninfo invalid argument
ee fbdev0 mode initialization failed
fatal seerver error:  addscreen/screeninit failed for driver 0
ddxsiggiveup closing log
giving up
xinit no such file or directory errno2
xinit no such process errno3 servere error

and back to the $ prompt.

---

### Post by silbak04 on 2010-10-17
try looking in your /etc/X11, if you have an xorg.conf file in there....try renaming that file, and then reboot and try startx.

---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-10-17
> **silbak04 said:**
> try looking in your /etc/X11, if you have an xorg.conf file in there....try renaming that file, and then reboot and try startx.

Thanks Silbak.  I've only got xorg.conf.failsafe in the X11 directory.  Tried to rename that and got Permission denied.

Tom

---

### Post by silbak04 on 2010-10-17
try:

```

$ sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf2

```

---

### Post by ZXCBOMB! on 2010-10-17
sorry for the rude change in topic. but i cant seem to figure out how to start a new thread. i just don't understand why there isn't some link labeled "Start new thread" anywhere on this site. could some one please help me on this.

---

### Post by ZXCBOMB! on 2010-10-17
Never mind i finally figured it out. sorry for the interuption.

---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-10-17
> **silbak04 said:**
> try:

```

$ sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf2

```

Thanks.  Remember that I had no xorg.conf, only xorg.conf.failsafe

So I used the sudo mv to rename xorg.conf.failsafe to xorg.conf.failsafe2 

then rebooted

No change.  at the non-gui screen, I entered my login and password.  Took me to the same $ prompt as before.

Then tried startx, and got the same stream of errors as before (in my previous posts).

Tom

---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-10-17
Please note:  the error messages from trying to run Startx say:

ee vesa kernel modesetting driver in use, refusing to laod
ee fbdev0 fbioput vscreeninfo invalid argument
ee fbdev0 mode initialization failed
addscreen/screeninit failed for driver 0


Wouldn't this mean there's a problem related to the video driver(s)?

Tom

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-18
> **NutmegCT said:**
> Please note: the error messages from trying to run Startx say:
 
ee vesa kernel modesetting driver in use, refusing to laod
ee fbdev0 fbioput vscreeninfo invalid argument
ee fbdev0 mode initialization failed
addscreen/screeninit failed for driver 0
 
 
Wouldn't this mean there's a problem related to the video driver(s)?
 
Tom
 
post the output of
 
```

lspci

```
 
and
 
```

modprobe

```
 
I think this should list firstly your pci device chipsets then the modules (drivers) you have, you should then be able to work out which drvier you need and see if its there...but can't check...not at home

---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-10-18
display controller:  intel corp 82852/855gm integrated graphics device rev 02
vga compatible controller:  intel corpor 82852/855gm integrated graphics device rev 02

But not being a tech whiz, I don't have a clue what I need to do with that info.

Adding to my confusion is the fact that when I try to boot with a live CD of 10.04 on the same machine, the screen goes blank after I click "run without installing", and also goes blank if I click "install on hard drive".  Seems that if I'm trying to run from a live CD, 10.04 should run fine, as that's what was running on the laptop before I made the attempt to upgrade to 10.10.

Thanks.
Tom

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-10-18
82852/855gm - you can use this to seach for issues/fixes etc, but intel are usually well supported in linux. Odd how you get the gui with the option to install/run without installing and then it goes.
 
What does
 
```

xrandr

```
return?

---

### Post by standingfire on 2010-10-18
Are you able to login to the command line either crtl-alt-f1 or f2
can you run sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg.

---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-10-18
> **Hippytaff said:**
> 82852/855gm - you can use this to seach for issues/fixes etc, but intel are usually well supported in linux. Odd how you get the gui with the option to install/run without installing and then it goes.
 
What does
 
```

xrandr

```
return?

Thanks.  xrandr results in "can't open display"

Are you able to login to the command line either crtl-alt-f1 or f2
can you run sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg.

Ctl-alt-f1 gives no response at all.
Ctl-alt-f2 results in login/password dialog.  I enter the info and get:

last login mon oct 18 on tty1
linus machine-laptop 2.6.31-19-generic #56-ubuntu smp thu jan 28 01:26:53 utc 2010 i686 gnu/linus
ubuntu 10.10

welcome to ubuntu!
* documentation [https://help.ubuntu.com/](https://help.ubuntu.com/)

and then my "machine@machine-laptop:  ~$"  prompt again

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg   results in prompt for password, a bit of disk activity, then back to the $ prompt (with no intervening text).

Thanks.
Tom

---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-10-19
Here's the situation at 6am EST:

Dell Latitude D505, had been running 10.04 with latest updates, until a few days ago when Software Manager said upgrade to 10.10 was available.  Download of 10.10 from Software Manager seemed to go fine, but at restart, the system hung at a non-gui login prompt.

Reading my earlier posts, you'll see the problem seems to be a video/display issue.  System seems to work with command line prompts, but can't enter GUI desktop.

And trying to run 10.04 from my old live CD, I can get no further than choosing "Run from CD, don't install" or "Full Install", but after choosing that and hearing some disk activity, the screen fades to dark gray and goes no further.  So even running from a CD isn't possible.

I'd really appreciate some help in getting my desktop back.

Thanks.
Tom
currently using an iBook G4 laptop

---

### Post by PollekePol on 2010-10-19
I (and others) have the same problem as you . See thread(s) on 10.04->10.10 migration. Have not found a solution anywhere yet :-(

---

### Post by randlieb on 2010-10-20
I upgraded to 10.10 using the update manager. As with you everything went fine until I re-booted and all I got was a blank screen.

At the Grub screen I was able to at least use the previous version of the Linux Kernel to get into my new 10.10 desk top. Don't know why the new kernel doesn't allow me to. Could it be a kernel issue?

---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-10-20
This may be a clue:  If I use Grub to choose an earlier version, I sometimes get "must load kernel first".  That happens in almost every earlier version I choose.  I get the impression that the 10.10 install corrupted the Grub file(s).

Summary from top line of the Grub boot menu:

ubuntu linux 2.6.31-19-generic (boots, but hangs at $ prompt)

ubuntu linux 2.6.31-19-generic recovery mode (at recovery menu, the top line is unreadable as it's covered with loading code.  I choose it and see lots of file transfers, then get "finished, please press ENTER".  I press ENTER and get the Recovery Menu again.  Now choose top line which is now legible (resume normal boot), and end with the $ prompt).

if I use the same choice as above (recovery mode) BUT instead choose #3 recover lost packages (or whatever it says), I again get http downloads, then 0 upgraded 0 newly installed 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded, and Finished, please press ENTER.  I press ENTER and get a quick message about loading video and init failed, then returns to Recovery Menu.

If I choose Run in failsafe graphic mode, I see md5sum /etc/x11/xorg.conf:  no such file or directory, then lines of code ending "VESA kernel modesetting driver in use, refusing to load
FBDEV0 fbioput vscreeninfo invalid argument
fbdev0 mode initialization failed
fatal server error:  addscreen/screeninit failed for driver 0

ddxsiggiveup:  closing log
giving up
xinit no such file or directory (errno 2: unable to connect to x server
xinit:  no such proocess (errno3): server error

and back to the $ prompt

But what's most troubling to me is that I can't even run my old Live CD of 10.04.  It boots and begins loading files, moves to the big ubuntu red/white dot screen, but hangs with a blank screen just *after* dissolving into red and white "blocks" which disappear into the grey screen.  At that point, all action stops, even ctrl-alt-del fails, and a force quit (holding down power button) is needed to turn the machine off.

Going through all these nested choices, trying to read the screens and retype them here is getting very frustrating, as there is so little response and the system seems overwhelmed with people having trouble after this big 10.10 upgrade.

Tom

---

### Post by Mervnet on 2010-10-21
This may seem obvious or may have been tried, but I found this thread helpful: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592361&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592361&page=2)

Specifically, I was having the exact same problems until I did:

sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
and
sudo apt-get purge nvidia-current

...rebooted, and it started righted up!  Was SOOO thankful, thought I'd share in hopes it helps others...

---

### Post by randlieb on 2010-10-22
Some info...

New default kernel (after upgrade) is 2.6.35-22 -- boots to blank screen
Previous kernel 2.6.32-24 -- boots into Meerkat 10.10 -- have complete functioning desktop

per /etc/X11/xorg.conf -- no file found

...for what it's worth

---

### Post by beau6282 on 2010-10-24
hey I am having the same issue installing 10.04 how did you get it to display in 10.04 I had to do a fresh install. then press Esc within th 5 seconds it gives you for other boot options the chose graphic safe mode and at least got the command line. but that it. any ideas what I should try fellas

---

