---
title: "Is 11.1 stable??"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by arvindbis on 2011-10-22
hi 
i just upgraded to 11.1 and i found many of the thing went wrong like display is scattered(wallpaper, menu, text...) all are now having boxed on them, none of them is shown before in 11.04.
thats the reason i doubt the stability of 11.1??
Regards

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-22
> **arvindbis said:**
> hi 
i just upgraded to 11.1 and i found many of the thing went wrong like display is scattered(wallpaper, menu, text...) all are now having boxed on them, none of them is shown before in 11.04.
thats the reason i doubt the stability of 11.1??
Regards

Stability is subjective, it depends on User experience IMO, as some on here would say it is not stable, however in the testing i have done with it it has no issues.

If you did an upgrade then yes quite possibly you could have some issues not present if you had done a fresh install.

I cant really translate the issues you seem to be having as it doesnt make much sense ?

Also i suggest in future always try things out in a VM or Live USB etc .

---

### Post by masgeeks on 2011-10-22
I use Ubuntu on desktops for my business - have done several 11.10 and so far so good, have been stable and fast.  Of course, I never recommend upgrading a machine, but doing a clean install.  That's always best.

Of course, there were the usual minor annoyances, like Flash, but easy enough to rectify.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-10-22
From what I've seen of it 11.10 is certainly stable, but if you're used to a classic gnome desktop, be prepared for a fairly steep learning curve sorting out unity.  You may prefer xfce (xubuntu) instead of the unity desktop of gnome, but the background system is the same, and, as I say, it seems stable.

---

### Post by shadytv on 2011-10-22
its released so yes, but you cant just expect the newest release to be 100% there still are bug just not as many ive stability is of the upmost importance (like mission critical) than stay with the LTS releases like 10.04 (12.04 is the next)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-10-22
I tested 11.10 since alpha 2. It was stable then. Ok, I got messages from time to time saying that this or that module had closed suddenly. But the OS did not crash. So, every time I played solitaire it crashed and blinked out of existence and just as I was about to win the game. But the OS did not crash and I could continue working.

Yes, 11.10 is stable. On the other hand if you have heavily modified your desktop with themes and other stuff that are not compatible with Gnome 3, or if you installed Gnome 3 and gnome shell on to 11.04, Then, I would say you can expect an upgrade to 11.10 to get messed up.

There are fundamental differences between Ubuntu 11.04 and 11.10. I would not advise upgrading 11.04 to 11.10 unless it was a basic 11.04 with Unity. Fresh install is what I would advise.

In my opinion some are having problems because (a) they should not be using 11.10 because they did not like Unity when it was in 11.04. So, why did they switch to 11.10? They are looking for faults and so they find them. (b) the upgrade process cannot take into effect all the modifications that have been made to the system. (c) they are the kind of user who should never be a early adopter/up-grader.

Regards.

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2011-10-22
My two upgrades were not stable but fresh installs are relatively stable.  Gnome 3 is a bit buggy here and there in terms of deploying extensions--nothing devastating--but the recent batch of updates has improved things.

---

### Post by Spiritof76 on 2011-10-22
Every upgrade we get these questions, every upgrade is stable for most people, and every upgrade some people seem to have problems. 
My suggestion is to go ahead and try it out on live cd, but wait a couple of weeks to upgrade.  
Before you do
Make two backups. one of the entire system, and one of the home folders, that way you have fall backs.

If you are nervous, go ahead and wait a couple of weeks for the issues to get sorted out.

Go ahead and try to do an upgrade.  check it out out If you have issues go ahead and do a full install, you can restore your home folders afterwards.  

For reference I did the on line upgrade on a netbook, and it worked out well, Unity is much improved. I haven't seen any issues yet.
YMMV

---

### Post by arvindbis on 2011-10-25
Thank you guys !!

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-10-25
> **arvindbis said:**
> Thank you guys !!

Try using the Fallback Gnome session if you feel that Unity is too much of a DE shock for you..  Here is a nice guide on getting that installed on your system:

[http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/09/12/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-10-aka-oneiric-ocelot/](http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/09/12/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-10-aka-oneiric-ocelot/)

---

