---
title: "T420 11.10 runs slow and fn + (jkl...) numbers"
date: 2012-02-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hyg on 2012-02-05
Hi guys! Im new to ubuntu forums so pls excuse me for possible placing mistakes.
I have a new laptop Thinkpad T420 (i5 2.5 GHz, 4 Gb ram) and i have win 7 and 11.10 dual boot on it. The problem is that the letters i write are delayed for nearly a second, which is highly disappointing on a new expensive laptop. In fact the cursor laggs sometimes too. And yes, the system is maybe running much worse than i expected with this configuration. I had 11.10 on my previous laptop (core 2 duo 1.8 ghz, 2gb ram) too and everything was running smoothly and nice.
But back to my question. I was trying all keyboard configurations and settings to solve my second problem, so it may be caused by it? I really dunno what is going on. I searched this forum and googled, but I focus on the keyboard delay, which they (discussers) dont.

The second problem is that I use czech qwertz keyboard. We have the american number line between qwertz and F buttons replaced by special diacritics letters such as &#283;&#353;áé. To write a number, you have to press shift and equivalent american number button, which is extremely annoying, especially with tenfingers typing so i would like to use the method of pressing function button (fn) and a letter such as jkluio. Its included on the keyboard´s labels, so i think my laptop should support it. But i really dont know how to enable it. The only method that "works" is numlock but then it writes only numbersinstead of letters. Any ideas?

Guys, pls excuse mine spelling, grammar and form, but this is so damn (hope this isnt a rude word) annoying that my lenovo should be happy that it didnt fly out of my window (althrough thinkpads would survive it). I promise that my other posts would make more sense and ill do more research before it but every single word in this situation is torture.

Thank you very much

hyg, Pink-hat script kiddie

edit: when i see this log of languages, which i cant delete, i started to think about virus :D
[LEFT][COLOR=#CCCCCC][FONT=Trebuchet MS][/FONT][/COLOR][/LEFT]
[CENTER][COLOR=#000000]AfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBulgarianCatalanChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)CroatianCzechDanishDetect languageDutchEnglishEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekHaitian CreoleHebrewHindiHungarianIcelandicIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseKoreanLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseNorwegianPersianPolishPortugueseRomanianRussianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSpanishSwahiliSwedishThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddish[COLOR=lightgrey]**&#8644;**[/COLOR]AfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBulgarianCatalanChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)CroatianCzechDanishDutchEnglishEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekHaitian CreoleHebrewHindiHungarianIcelandicIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseKoreanLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseNorwegianPersianPolishPortugueseRomanianRussianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSpanishSwahiliSwedishThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddish[LEFT]Detect language » Hungarian[/LEFT]


[/COLOR][/CENTER]

---

