---
title: "16.4.1 Won't Update"
date: 2017-09-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by uzzo23 on 2017-09-02
For some reason, it won't download and apply the update. I've included the screenshot. It gets about halfway and won't go any further. I left it on all night last night and it was still in the same spot that it's been all day.[ATTACH=CONFIG]276573[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2017-09-02
Is there a password prompt hiding behind the software application window ? I would check and also make sure the application isn't frozen. There are other ways complete the updates so don't be afraid to close the application. The software updater is one way and the terminal is another.

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
```

---

### Post by ChuangTzu on 2017-09-02
definitely try from terminal/cli, one benefit is it will tell you what is wrong if anything, you can also copy/paste your sources so we can see if anything is strange.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-09-03
Try these in a terminal. They will NOT upgrade your installed release to a new one. Just the software you currently have installed.

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt full-upgrade
```

Post any errors that occur after either of these commands, please.

(Just noticed; similar to Frogs Hair's command.)

---

### Post by uzzo23 on 2017-09-03
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Try these in a terminal. They will NOT upgrade your installed release to a new one. Just the software you currently have installed.

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt full-upgrade
```

Post any errors that occur after either of these commands, please.

(Just noticed; similar to Frogs Hair's command.)

Thanks guys, both commands worked just fine. I've updated it several times since I installed it and didn't have this problem. I've been getting a lot of errors at startup so hopefully these updates will take care of some of that. It's very strange, all of the other versions of ubuntu I've had always let me know when there were updates. I have to manually check this one for updates and then install them. It just didn't want to do it this time for some reason.

---

