---
title: "11.10 usb printer how?"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-16
Ok, my latest problem since upgrading to 11.10 is my Epson R300 USB printer no longer works. So I deleted it and attempted to re-add it. The Ubuntu Desktop Guide implies that all I have to do is plug it in. Nothing. So I tried System->Printers->Add. Here's where I get stuck. The Guide just says to "select the printer from the Devices window." But there are 4 choices, none of which are addressed in the Guide:
LPT #1 (parallel port)
Serial Port #1
Enter URI
Network Printer
Since choices 1, 2 and 4 don't seem to apply, that leaves me with 3. But what am I supposed to use for the URI? This printer is just connected locally via USB. I tried just putting what was suggested (literally): ipp://printer.mydomain/ipp and that took me to the driver selection. But when I was done, I noticed it said it could not find the printer. Probably that URI. You'd think they would tell you what to do for a USB printer since that is by far the most common case these days.
-- David

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-16
I think I have a little more information. It now appears that when I click Add, I should recognize my specific USB printer in the list of devices.
I see this line added to /var/log/cups/error_log:
E [16/Oct/2011:19:14:48 -0400] Returning HTTP Forbidden for CUPS-Get-Devices (no URI) from localhost

So it seems like CUPS is not seeing my printer. If I do lsusb, one of the output lines is:
Bus 001 Device 008: ID 04b8:0803 Seiko Epson Corp. Printer (Composite Device)
I think that proves that my printer really is connected to USB.

---

### Post by pedrocrg on 2011-10-17
I have exactly the same problem. After upgrading to Ubuntu 11.10, my Epson Stylus Photo R300 died. Ubuntu does not detect it, and have not found the solution to the problem.

Pedro

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-17
Well, it looks like the problem is in CUPS, since logging into the CUPS server via [http://localhost:631](http://localhost:631) I found that it could not find my printer. According to the small amount of CUPS documentation I've had time to study so far, it may turn out to be some permission problem of cupsd vis-a-vis the USB device. I'm going to try modifying cupsd.conf to get more debug info. It's hard to believe it's anything specific to the R300. Interesting that we both have the same printer.
-- David

---

### Post by tziebart333 on 2011-10-17
I am having the same problem with my Brother MFC8820D.  Following the debugging printer problems ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingPrintingProblems](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingPrintingProblems)), the lsusb command shows:

Bus 001 Device 004: ID 04f9:0143 Brother Industries, Ltd MFC-8820D

However when I run the following command:

$ ls -l /dev/usb/lp* /dev/bus/usb/*/*

I was expecting to see devices, however all I see is:

crw------- 1 root root 180, 96 2011-10-17 11:28 /dev/usb/hiddev0
crw------- 1 root root 180, 97 2011-10-17 11:28 /dev/usb/hiddev1

No Printer Devices.

The syslog file shows the following when plugging in the printer.

udev-configure-printer: Failed to fetch Device ID

I assume the problem is missing or uncreated printer devices.

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-17
Here are my results from suggested steps in the wiki you referenced ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingPrintingProblems):](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingPrintingProblems):)

```
#2:
$ lsmod | grep usb
usb_storage            44173  0
```

```
#3/4: Here's what gets added to /var/log/syslog when the printer is
either turned on or plugged back in after being unplugged:
Oct 17 19:22:45 gateway kernel: [ 4544.968057] usb 1-4: new high speed
USB device number 5 using ehci_hcd
Oct 17 19:22:45 gateway mtp-probe: checking bus 1, device 5:
"/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1d.7/usb1/1-4"
Oct 17 19:22:45 gateway kernel: [ 4545.101917] scsi9 : usb-storage 1-4:1.0
Oct 17 19:22:45 gateway mtp-probe: bus: 1, device: 5 was not an MTP device
Oct 17 19:22:45 gateway udev-configure-printer: add
/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1d.7/usb1/1-4/1-4:1.1
Oct 17 19:22:45 gateway udev-configure-printer: device devpath is
/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1d.7/usb1/1-4
Oct 17 19:22:45 gateway udev-configure-printer: Device vendor/product
is 04B8:0803
Oct 17 19:22:45 gateway udev-configure-printer: failed to claim interface 0
Oct 17 19:22:46 gateway kernel: [ 4546.824413] scsi 9:0:0:0:
Direct-Access     EPSON    Stylus Storage   1.00 PQ: 0 ANSI: 2
Oct 17 19:22:46 gateway kernel: [ 4546.829110] sd 9:0:0:0: Attached
scsi generic sg2 type 0
Oct 17 19:22:46 gateway kernel: [ 4546.843632] sd 9:0:0:0: [sdb]
Attached SCSI removable disk
```

Sounds to me like it gave up interpreting it as a printer and decided
to call it a storage device.

```
#6
$ lsusb | grep Epson
Bus 001 Device 005: ID 04b8:0803 Seiko Epson Corp. Printer (Composite Device)
```

```
#7
$ ls -l /dev/usb/lp*
ls: cannot access /dev/usb/lp*: No such file or directory
$ ls -l /dev/bus/usb/*/*
crw-rw-r-- 1 root lp   189,   4 2011-10-17 19:22 /dev/bus/usb/001/005
(only included the relevant line)
```

-- David

I have submitted a bug report using the method suggested in the wiki (ubuntu-bug cups):
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups/+bug/876992](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups/+bug/876992)

---

### Post by Download Descendent on 2011-10-19
I can confirm the Epson R300 is not detected on a clean install of 11.10.

As you know, on 11.04 this is detected automatically.

---

### Post by redmon on 2011-10-19
I have same problem with Brother MFC-8840D, both printer and scanner not detected.  Printer works fine with parallel connection, but not USB.

---

### Post by jedimasterk on 2011-10-21
Same problem here with my Epson Stylus Photo R340. Cups screwed everything up!. Worked in Natty. I also can confirm that Kubuntu 11.10, Linux mint Debian Edition 201109, and Mandriva 2011, detecting my printer does not work!. PCLinuxOS 2011, which uses an older 1.4 series of Cups works fine.

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-21
It appears now not to be the fault of CUPS, but rather the kernel. What kernel versions are your Debian and Mandriva systems using? Check out:
[https://launchpad.net/+search?field.text=872711](https://launchpad.net/+search?field.text=872711)
which my bug above was marked a duplicate of. You'll see that several people with our same problem have installed a "proposed" kernel fix and it has solved the problem.
-- David

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-22
I noticed that kernel 3.0.0-13 was present in /boot although what was running was 3.0.0-12.  When I ran sudo update-grub, I saw that 3.0.0-13 was detected, but menu.lst still ended up without it. So after looking at the update-grub manpage some more, I manually added in 3.0.0-13 and ran update-grub again. I rebooted and was then running 3.0.0-13. Now my Epson Stylus Photo R300 is detected and working again! Maybe 3.0.0-13 is the so-called "proposed kernel". At any rate, it is the kernel that solves the problem for me, as I have reported in bug 872711.
-- David

---

### Post by jedimasterk on 2011-10-22
Thanks for the info. I will check it out on my days off.

---

### Post by pedrocrg on 2011-10-22
How can I install version 3.0.0-13?
When I run "sudo update-grub" the output is

Searching for GRUB installation directory ... found: /boot/grub
Searching for default file ... found: /boot/grub/default
Testing for an existing GRUB menu.lst file ... found: /boot/grub/menu.lst
Searching for splash image ... none found, skipping ...
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-3.0.0-12-generic
Found kernel: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-11-generic
Found kernel: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Updating /boot/grub/menu.lst ... done

after this instruction, I have the same output. And the printer R300 still not working.

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-22
> **pedrocrg said:**
> How can I install version 3.0.0-13?

1. You first have to get it from the repositories. Check your /etc/apt/sources.list to see if you have oneiric-proposed. You would need a line like this:
deb [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) oneiric-proposed restricted main multiverse universe (all one line).
Or, you can do it via the GUI: Ubuntu Software Center&#8594;Edit&#8594;Software Sources&#8594;Updates and ensure that oneiric-proposed is ticked.
I think once you do that, you can go into Update Manager or Synaptic and get it (there are other ways). You'll know you've succeeded when you see vmlinuz-3.0.0-13-generic in /boot. 
2. If your experience is like mine, you aren't done yet. Check your /boot/grub/menu.lst. Does it contain a mention of 3.0.0-13 right after "## ## End Default Options ##"? For me, the answer was no, and I then edited menu.lst. I just copied the lines involving 3.0.0-12 and in the copied lines, changed -12 to -13. To edit the file (after backing it up via, e.g., sudo cp -p menu.lst menu.lst.backup), you do "gksu gedit menu.lst" (assuming you're cd'd to /boot/grub). The new section for 3.0.0-13 should now come first. Save your file and exit from the editor. 
3. Now run sudo update-grub again. 
4. Then reboot. 
5. When you come back up, uname -r should show 3.0.0-13-generic. 
6. Then and only then, try to see if your printer is detected. Good luck!
-- David

---

### Post by pedrocrg on 2011-10-22
Thank You David!!! It works. Now I have the Epson R300 printing.
Pedro

---

### Post by jedimasterk on 2011-10-23
That did it!:)
Enabled proposed repositories, upgraded to 3.0.0-13 kernel, and now my printer works. Grub also updated to show new kernel. Thanks everyone!. You made my day!.:D

---

### Post by raysa on 2011-10-23
Just trying to follow David's instructions, but I don't have a menu.lst in my /boot/grub

I have vmlinuz-3.0.0-13-generic-pae in /boot, so I hope the first part has worked, but no menu.lst in /boot/grub, so I can't do the second bit re editing it.

Mind you, I've just rebooted and turned the printer on and it is now working ... so job done without editing the menu.lst.

Many thanks

---

### Post by redmon on 2011-10-23
shochatd,

After enabling proposed repositories, what specifically do I need to install in Synaptic?

---

### Post by juancarlosf on 2011-10-24
Thank you David I'm working with my Epson stylus photo R300.

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-24
raysa: There are 2 versions of GRUB. GRUB 1, which I still have uses menu.lst, wheras GRUB 2 has /etc/default/grub and does not have menu.lst. So you must have GRUB 2. If you've done a clean install of 9.10/Karmic Koala or later, you should have GRUB 2, but people like me who have just been upgrading since before that, don't get it unless they decide explicitly to upgrade to GRUB 2. As I understand it, with GRUB 2, all you have to do is run sudo update-grub and it will automatically pick up the new kernel if it's there in /boot. I think that's how it worked in your case.

redmon: What you need is linux 3.0.0-13. I think in my case, I got it by running Update Manager. Just look in /boot and see if vmlinuz-3.0.0-13-(whatever) is there. Do you have it? If not, go to synaptic and put "linux" in the search box. In my case, the 3.0.0-13 packages are right at the top of the list. Once you have the kernel in /boot, the next step depends on whether you have GRUB 1 or 2 (see above). If GRUB 1, then follow the instructions that I posted previously (including the editing of menu.lst). If GRUB 2, just sudo update-grub should do it (followed by reboot). You can check using the command grub-install -v. If it says 0.97 you have GRUB 1. If it's something like 1.98 or later, you have GRUB 2.
-- David

---

### Post by redmon on 2011-10-25
> **shochatd said:**
> redmon: What you need is linux 3.0.0-13. I think in my case, I got it by running Update Manager. Just look in /boot and see if vmlinuz-3.0.0-13-(whatever) is there. Do you have it? If not, go to synaptic and put "linux" in the search box. In my case, the 3.0.0-13 packages are right at the top of the list. Once you have the kernel in /boot, the next step depends on whether you have GRUB 1 or 2 (see above). If GRUB 1, then follow the instructions that I posted previously (including the editing of menu.lst). If GRUB 2, just sudo update-grub should do it (followed by reboot). You can check using the command grub-install -v. If it says 0.97 you have GRUB 1. If it's something like 1.98 or later, you have GRUB 2.
-- David

I installed 3.0.0-13 and proceeded through your six steps in #15 (I have Grub1).  Everything worked - except no USB printer detected.  I tried reinstalling drivers, but no change.  Printer works fine with parallel connection, but not USB.

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-25
> **redmon said:**
> I installed 3.0.0-13 and proceeded through your six steps in #15 (I have Grub1).  Everything worked - except no USB printer detected.  I tried reinstalling drivers, but no change.  Printer works fine with parallel connection, but not USB.

Are you sure 3.0.0-13 is what is booting? 
What does uname -r show?

---

### Post by redmon on 2011-10-25
> **shochatd said:**
> Are you sure 3.0.0-13 is what is booting? 
What does uname -r show?

3.0.0-13-generic

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-25
> **redmon said:**
> 3.0.0-13-generic

Sorry to hear that. It means your printer is not fixed by the kernel fix. Did it work with 11.04? Anyway, you should go to 
[https://launchpad.net/+search?field.text=872711](https://launchpad.net/+search?field.text=872711)
(create an account if you don't have one) and add to the bug the fact that the proposed kernel didn't fix it for you, what kind of printer, etc.

---

### Post by redmon on 2011-10-25
> **shochatd said:**
> Sorry to hear that. It means your printer is not fixed by the kernel fix. Did it work with 11.04? Anyway, you should go to 
[https://launchpad.net/+search?field.text=872711](https://launchpad.net/+search?field.text=872711)
(create an account if you don't have one) and add to the bug the fact that the proposed kernel didn't fix it for you, what kind of printer, etc.

I have been using Ubuntu for two years and the printer has always worked.  I am also using Linux Mint 11 which is based on 11.04 and both printer and scanner work fine.

Thanks for all your help.

---

### Post by bach on 2011-10-25
I can no longer print to my HP Deskjet 810C printer after upgrading to Ubuntu 11.10. It worked with 11.04 and also w/ previous Ubuntu versions. I installed kernel 3.1 and the problem remains. 

cribari@darwin:~$ uname -a
Linux darwin 3.1.0-030100-generic #201110241006 SMP Mon Oct 24 14:07:10 UTC 2011 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by sophy_m on 2011-10-27
My problem is very peculiar - in 11.04 and 10.10 I had a lot of trouble getting my Brother DCP-195C to work, having to install many drivers, tweak files, etc. In fact on 11.04 I managed to break my update manager when fixing the printer! So this is a clean install. With a heavy heart, expecting a battle, I plug the printer in. Immediately 11.10 says 'detecting printer', followed by 'DCP-195C detected'. Amazing! So I skip off to print something, click print, select printer, printer says receiving data, and then... nothing. It just goes away again and nothing is printed. 

I've tried a few of the fixes on the forums threads but nothing has helped. Any ideas?

---

### Post by suheimi on 2011-10-27
This is general solution for Debian / Ubuntu:
(mine: Ubuntu 11.10 64 bit, Canon IP1980, works very fine)


#apt-get install cups cups-client "foomatic-db*"
(install cups & download a db printer drivers)

# adduser suheimi lpadmin
(change suheimi to your username or whoever want to print)

# firefox, go to  [http://localhost:631](http://localhost:631)
    --> adminstration --> add printer -->local printer  --> usb printer

no need to restart cups, but if you want to,  
# service cups restart 

You also can modify:
/etc/cups/cupsd.conf


Hope that's help

---

### Post by RobinC@Amethyst on 2011-10-28
This is the kind of nonsense I thought we'd left behind around 7.10. Did nobody regression test final 11.10 with some USB printers? There's whole families this kernel doesn't work with, now we're all back grubbing around (no pun intd) at command lines trying to get printers to work!!

We spend years evangelising about Linux only to get another Canonical ball-drop on hardware, setting back the cause yet again, just as we think we can get out of the ghetto of minority operating systems.

Everyone do your duty, get on Launchpad, raise those bugs and get this sorted. RC

---

### Post by pacut on 2011-10-29
IT WORKS !!!!!

Thanks guys. This has been a tremendous issue and now it's over !

Bye Bye

---

### Post by smallblackanimal on 2011-10-30
Kernel upgrade (3.0.0-13) didn't fix it for me, then I found out that usblp module wasn't loading. If your printer is usb try
```
lsmod | grep usblp
```
If you don't get an output the modules not loading for you so your printer can't communicate. Run
```
sudo modprobe usblp
```
then 
```
lsmod | grep usblp
```
You *hopefully* will get an output with an ID associated with the module. If so restart cups and your printer should work. If that is the case you can either load the module manually on every reboot or add *usblp* to /ect/modules.

---

### Post by Ray Lindley on 2011-11-01
> **pedrocrg said:**
> I have exactly the same problem.  died. Ubuntu does not detect it, and have not found the solution to the problem.

Pedro
After upgrading to Ubuntu11.10, my Epson Stylus  Photo R300 detected momentarily but not print.
Can print in Mint 11. Solution Appreciated.

Ray

---

### Post by mediaworksmt on 2011-11-02
> **smallblackanimal said:**
> Kernel upgrade (3.0.0-13) didn't fix it for me, then I found out that usblp module wasn't loading. If your printer is usb try
```
lsmod | grep usblp
```
If you don't get an output the modules not loading for you so your printer can't communicate. Run
```
sudo modprobe usblp
```
then 
```
lsmod | grep usblp
```
You *hopefully* will get an output with an ID associated with the module. ...

I have a USB Epson R300 which was previously working in 11.04, and hasn't worked since the upgrade to 11.10. ( [Forum thread here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1870549") )

I've performed the above steps, including adding [FONT="Courier New"]usblp[/FONT] into /etc/modules, and now receive the following output when I type in [FONT="Courier New"]lsmod | grep usblp[/FONT] :

```
usblp                  18239  0 
```

However, my USB printer is still not detected using either *System Settings > Printing* or the *CUPS Administration > Find New Printers* methods.

I've restarted CUPS, and also rebooted my entire system, and run both [FONT="Courier New"]lsusb[/FONT] and [FONT="Courier New"]lsmod | grep usblp[/FONT] to ensure my printer is listed: Both return output that suggests my USB printer is present.

Is there something more I can try, or something I may be doing wrong?

---

### Post by teimo on 2011-11-03
Maybe I can help you with these steps, which worked for me:

first I followed the instructions of *suheimi* 

in the web interface I added a local printer: adminstration --> add printer -->local printer  --> LPT #1 (unkown) 
I also chose the appropriate printer driver for my Epson Stylus Photo R300

then I changed the the /etc/cups/printers.conf:

###########
<Printer Photo_R300>
UUID urn:uuid:be02830b-fde1-3c06-7e24-7d936402b944
Info Epson Stylus Photo R300
Location
MakeModel Epson Stylus Photo R300 - CUPS+Gutenprint v5.2.7
DeviceURI **parallel:/dev/usb/lp0**
State Idle
StateTime 1320353618
Type 8425484
Accepting Yes
Shared No
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy retry-job
</Printer>
############

after this: service cups restart 

Hopefully this will work for you too!

---

### Post by lotsofish on 2011-11-04
> **teimo said:**
> Maybe I can help you with these steps, which worked for me:

first I followed the instructions of *suheimi* 

in the web interface I added a local printer: adminstration --> add printer -->local printer  --> LPT #1 (unkown) 
I also chose the appropriate printer driver for my Epson Stylus Photo R300

then I changed the the /etc/cups/printers.conf:

###########
<Printer Photo_R300>
UUID urn:uuid:be02830b-fde1-3c06-7e24-7d936402b944
Info Epson Stylus Photo R300
Location
MakeModel Epson Stylus Photo R300 - CUPS+Gutenprint v5.2.7
DeviceURI **parallel:/dev/usb/lp0**
State Idle
StateTime 1320353618
Type 8425484
Accepting Yes
Shared No
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy retry-job
</Printer>
############

after this: service cups restart 

Hopefully this will work for you too!


I used this advice to get my old Xerox P12 printer (with USB > Parallel adapter cable) working. I did upgrade to 3.0.0-13 kernel and `modprobe usblp`, so I'm not sure if those are also required.

As a note, if you go through the "Printing" applet, you don't have to mess with changing the printers.conf file. After adding a new LPT: printer, you can change the Device URI right from the printer properties page, and click apply.

---

### Post by oojanen on 2011-11-06
If you don't have the file /dev/usblp, the solution for me was to do "sudo modprobe usblp" in the terminal.

I have HP Laserjet 6P conneted through usb-parallel cable "Prolific technology, Inc. PL2305 Parallel port"

---

### Post by tomdkat on 2011-11-06
> **shochatd said:**
> 1. You first have to get it from the repositories. Check your /etc/apt/sources.list to see if you have oneiric-proposed. You would need a line like this:
deb [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) oneiric-proposed restricted main multiverse universe (all one line).
Or, you can do it via the GUI: Ubuntu Software Center&#8594;Edit&#8594;Software Sources&#8594;Updates and ensure that oneiric-proposed is ticked.
I think once you do that, you can go into Update Manager or Synaptic and get it (there are other ways). You'll know you've succeeded when you see vmlinuz-3.0.0-13-generic in /boot. 
2. If your experience is like mine, you aren't done yet. Check your /boot/grub/menu.lst. Does it contain a mention of 3.0.0-13 right after "## ## End Default Options ##"? For me, the answer was no, and I then edited menu.lst. I just copied the lines involving 3.0.0-12 and in the copied lines, changed -12 to -13. To edit the file (after backing it up via, e.g., sudo cp -p menu.lst menu.lst.backup), you do "gksu gedit menu.lst" (assuming you're cd'd to /boot/grub). The new section for 3.0.0-13 should now come first. Save your file and exit from the editor. 
3. Now run sudo update-grub again. 
4. Then reboot. 
5. When you come back up, uname -r should show 3.0.0-13-generic. 
6. Then and only then, try to see if your printer is detected. Good luck!
-- DavidDoes anyone know if/when kernel 3.0.0-13 will be officially released?

Thanks!

Peace...

---

### Post by raysa on 2011-11-07
Followed the instructions here to get kernel 3.0.0-13-generic (although uname -r shows "3.0.0-13-generic-pae" ... is the -pae significant?).

Now the printer is recognised and I can print to it, but it can only do US letter format, despite all my docs being A4. When I go to printer set-up the drop-down menu for paper size only has the 'letter' option ... no other sizes offered.

How can I configure the printer for other sizes (like I used to be able to do before upgrading)?

---

### Post by Thaumatech on 2011-11-07
I had the same problem: Ubuntu ver11.10, Epson Stylus 340 printer was detected and installed (though I hadn't actually used it).  At around mid-tober, I installed a number of Ubuntu updates.

After this update, I tried to use the printer - I kept getting something like "waiting for the printer to become available" - no printer...

I deleted the printer from the Printer list, then tried reinstalling it: "No printer detected"...  Off to google...  LSUSB was detecting the printer, but the printer system wouldn't.

All this to say - I just tried shochatd's suggestion: "Or, you can do it via the GUI: Ubuntu Software Center&#8594;Edit&#8594;Software  Sources&#8594;Updates and ensure that oneiric-proposed is ticked."  

Then Software Up to Date / Check / Install Updates.  Then rebooted and Printers / Add, installed printer.  It works.  Thanks!

Yes, Canonical needs to be told.

---

### Post by ParaIdioma on 2011-11-08
[https://answers.launchpad.net/hplip/+question/174891](https://answers.launchpad.net/hplip/+question/174891)

for me worked this:

1) download hplip-3.11.10 from this site:
[http://www.hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/install/install/index.html](http://www.hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/install/install/index.html)

2) run "sh hplip-3.11.10.run" in the terminal
 $ sh hplip-3.11.10.run

3) copy the lib64 binaries to lib folder
 $ sudo cp -r /usr/lib64/* /usr/lib/

4) reboot

5) run hp-setup

---

### Post by schms on 2011-11-08
No luck here with Lexmark S305, despite having kernel 3.0.0-13 (Ubuntu 11.10, 64 bit)
 
$ uname -a
Linux xxxx 3.0.0-13-generic #22-Ubuntu SMP Wed Nov 2 13:27:26 UTC 2011 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

$ lpstat -a
Lexmark_S300-S400_Series accepting requests since Fri 04 Nov 2011 11:33:07 AM CET

$ lsusb | grep -i Lex
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 043d:0180 Lexmark International, Inc. 

$ lsmod | grep usb
usb_storage            57901  0 
usbhid                 47198  2 hid_logitech
hid                    95463  2 hid_logitech,usbhid


I installed Ubuntu 11.04 (32 bit) as a guest in VMware player (host hardware Ubuntu 11.10, 64 bit) and the Lexmark S305 works nicely in Ubuntu 11.04 (32 bit).

Therefore, I believe that kernel 3.0.0-13 (Ubuntu 11.10, 64 bit) did
not fix the usb printer problems for all usb printers.

---

### Post by redmon on 2011-11-08
I have Brother MFC-8840D usb printer/scanner.  Both worked properly in 11.04, but not 11.10.  Upgrading to kernel 3.0.0-13 did not help.  Using "DeviceURI **parallel:/dev/usb/lp0" **allowed me to use the printer, but the scanner still could not be detected.I have posted comments in several threads, opened a bug in Launchpad, and generally spent way to many hours trying to solve this problem.

My solution was to switch to Xubuntu 11.10.  Opened the printing configuration window and there was my usb printer automatically detected and setup.  Installed Brother scanner driver and my scanner now works.

No one in the forums or launchpad has answered my question why my printer/scanner works in Xubuntu 11.10 (without 3.0.0-13 kernel), but does not work in Ubuntu 11.10.

---

### Post by raysa on 2011-11-08
> **Thaumatech said:**
> 
All this to say - I just tried shochatd's suggestion: "Or, you can do it via the GUI: Ubuntu Software Center&#8594;Edit&#8594;Software  Sources&#8594;Updates and ensure that oneiric-proposed is ticked."  

Then Software Up to Date / Check / Install Updates.  Then rebooted and Printers / Add, installed printer.  It works.  

As I said, it worked for me too, EXCEPT that the printer can't be configured to print A4, only Letter.  How can I get the paper size options?

---

### Post by beenny on 2011-11-10
I have tried to do a lot of these things and still not working for me after upgrade to 11.10 (worked mostly fine on 11.04).

Printer: HP-LaserJet-4000
Message: Processing - Waiting for printer to become available.
(printer works fine when I hook up my laptop running 11.04 still)

steps taken:
(1) upgrade kernel:
```

$uname -r
3.0.0-13-generic

```

(2) added usblp to start modules
```

$lsmod | grep usblp
usblp                  18239  0 

```

(3) restarted cups:
```

$service cups restart
restart: Rejected send message, 1 matched rules; type="method_call", sender=":1.64" (uid=1000 pid=2721 comm="restart cups ") interface="com.ubuntu.Upstart0_6.Job" member="Restart" error name="(unset)" requested_reply="0" destination="com.ubuntu.Upstart" (uid=0 pid=1 comm="/sbin/init")

```

(not sure if this is normal or not)

(4) ran the HP installer
```

$hp-setup
...
Searching... (bus=usb, search=(None), desc=0)
error: No devices found on bus: usb

```
and the installer fails

my printer conf file is:

```
$sudo cat /etc/cups/printers.conf
# Printer configuration file for CUPS v1.5.0
# Written by cupsd
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE WHEN CUPSD IS RUNNING
<DefaultPrinter HP-LaserJet-4000-Series>
UUID urn:uuid:f536cf43-223f-3131-729a-8d8d35e13f7a
Info Hewlett-Packard HP LaserJet 4000 Series
Location bgoldstein-home
MakeModel HP LaserJet 4000 Series Postscript (recommended)
DeviceURI usb://HP/LaserJet%204000%20Series
State Idle
StateTime 1320907613
Type 8425668
Accepting Yes
Shared Yes
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy retry-job
</Printer>

```

I've also tried re-installing the printer and while that finds the driver still get the error...

If anyone has anymore suggestions this would be greatly appreciated...

Thanks,

bg

---

### Post by Devilman13 on 2011-11-10
> **beenny said:**
> I have tried to do a lot of these things and still not working for me after upgrade to 11.10 (worked mostly fine on 11.04).

Printer: HP-LaserJet-4000
Message: Processing - Waiting for printer to become available.
(printer works fine when I hook up my laptop running 11.04 still)

I've also tried re-installing the printer and while that finds the driver still get the error...

If anyone has anymore suggestions this would be greatly appreciated...

Thanks,

bg

I'm in the exact same situation. Everything was just fine in 11.04 but ever since the upgrade I can't get the printer to work no matter what I try. In 11.04 the LaserJet 4000 was instantly detected and easily installed.

---

### Post by achoi on 2011-11-12
> **lotsofish said:**
> I used this advice to get my old Xerox P12 printer (with USB > Parallel adapter cable) working. I did upgrade to 3.0.0-13 kernel and `modprobe usblp`, so I'm not sure if those are also required.

As a note, if you go through the "Printing" applet, you don't have to mess with changing the printers.conf file. After adding a new LPT: printer, you can change the Device URI right from the printer properties page, and click apply.

This method works well for me.  I have a Dell Latitude 610 laptop that had Ubuntu 11.04.  I replace the OS with Lubuntu 11.10 and had same problem as other trying to set up an USB printer.  My USB printer is an old Epson Stylus CX3810 4 colour inkjet printer.  I use this these methods to set up my printer using the Printer configuration (system-config-printer package) then enter in the parallel:/dev/usb/lp0 for the Device URI entry field then complete the configuration.

I found this method worked well for me too.  

I also have a network printer, a Samsung ML-3051ND.  This Lubuntu 11.10 was able to detect and I configured it without problems.

I hope the USB printer discovering (I think this is the problem) feature will be fixed in the near future.  Otherwise, (L)Ubuntu is a nice easier to use Linux distro IMHO!

---

### Post by antjkirk on 2011-11-12
Same problem with Epson R300 not detected. Unable to cure so changed to Mint 11. Will not be returning to Ubuntu on my desktop.

---

### Post by beenny on 2011-11-13
So is this considered a known issue that one needs to be patient with as it's being resolved, or is it necessary to consider another OS?

bg

---

### Post by shaneo1 on 2011-11-14
Has anyone thought that it could in fact be CUPS 1.5.0 which is in 11.10, and CUPS 1.4.6 is in 11.04??  just carious....

Is there a away to downgrade to cups 1.4.6 in 11.10? to test this.????

---

### Post by redmon on 2011-11-14
> **shaneo1 said:**
> Has anyone thought that it could in fact be CUPS 1.5.0 which is in 11.10, and CUPS 1.4.6 is in 11.04??  just carious....

Read through Launchpad bugs [http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/872711]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/872711") and [http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups/+bug/883169]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups/+bug/883169").

There are several solutions, including a new CUPS package.

---

### Post by beenny on 2011-11-15
So adding the ppa didn't seem to do anything for me, but changing the uri to:

> parallel:/dev/usblp0

did seem to work.

I'm just curious if that is a "proper" solution or more of a work around and if so does it matter...

Anyway, thanks for the fix...

bg

---

### Post by Devilman13 on 2011-11-16
None of this seems to be doing me any help.

Will there be a cups update soon that just fixes all this USB auto-detect crap?

---

### Post by redmon on 2011-11-16
> **beenny said:**
> So is this considered a known issue that one needs to be patient with as it's being resolved, or is it necessary to consider another OS?

Per the Launchpad bugs, this is a known issue, though the proposed solutions do not appear to work for everyone.  All the solutions are supposedly in the nightly releases of 12.04, but I tried a live CD with the same results - no detection of usb printer.  Changing the URI did work for me, but I do not consider that as a proper solution.  Plus, my printer is multifunction with scanner which is not detected.

Re considering another OS:  as I mentioned in a previous comment, I have switched to Xubuntu 11.10.  Usb printer was automatically detected and setup.  I did not need to add it - the printer was simply there when I opened the printer window.  And, after installing Brother scanner driver, my scanner was detected and works.

---

### Post by redmon on 2011-11-16
> **redmon said:**
> All the solutions are supposedly in the nightly releases of 12.04, but I tried a live CD with the same results - no detection of usb printer.

I gave inaccurate information about Precise 12.04.  I downloaded the iso yesterday, but it was not completely up-to-date.  I updated/upgraded the 12.04 live CD and it detected my usb printer.  I also downloaded/installed the Brother scanner driver and the scanner was detected.  My problems solved.

---

### Post by beenny on 2011-11-16
That's good to hear. 12.04 is a LTR, right? So you'd hope that it is less ambitious and just tries to work out some of these kinks.

I've actually found 11.10 slightly buggier than 11.04 (using Unity) so have been reluctant to use it on all my machines...

---

### Post by billstei on 2011-11-18
I was able to get a Prolific PL2305 usb-to-parallel interface connected to an HP Laserjet 5L to be recognised by adding "usblp" (without the quotes) to the file /etc/modules and then using parallel:/dev/usblp0 as the URI in the Add Printer dialog, and then selecting the driver manually from the printer driver list.

---

### Post by Devilman13 on 2011-11-18
Last CUPS update fixed this for me automatically.

It successfully detected and installed the LaserJet 4000 plus a Brother HL5370 printer we have on our network that it previously never could install the correct driver or something for.

---

### Post by alenis on 2011-11-22
Even after the latest update, Lubuntu 11.10 still doesn't detect a Brother MFC-8840D

---

### Post by divorce2009 on 2011-11-24
I installed the cups updates, but I still am not seeing my usb printer.  Unfortunately using the work around as above breaks my USB Vodacom dongle.  I also would like to point out that I ordered the CD from the states three weeks ago because I could not download with my EDGE connection and now we are expected to install 250MB of updates already.


 (I have to say I am very disappointed with this release - I think I may just go back to 9.04 until things improve.  All I like is the Thunderbird mail and being able to download mail headers!)

---

### Post by xni on 2011-11-26
Yahoo!

I have HP LaserJet 6L and Epson Stylys R300 printers and they became unavailable after update from 11.04 to 11.10. But I liked 11.10 seems to be less buggy, so I decided to fix this error.

As it was already said, there is some kernel error and kernel update may fix this problem. But the latest revision, available from repo is 3.0.0.12.

So I followed [this]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/GitKernelBuild") instruction (I had some compilation errors, so I had to fix some source code errors). And now I have kernel 3.2.0-rc3.

And everything is fine!

GL

---

### Post by AdamDSmith on 2012-01-19
**11.10 Oneiric >> HP LaserJet 1200 stopped working**             
                                                                After  installing 11.10 Oneiric, HP LaserJet 1200 will no longer work   properly. It worked (most of the time) with my previous Ubuntu   installations. Most of this thread is about 11.10 not recognising printers. My printer gets recognised when I plug it into the USB, and sometimes will even print a page. But it is still fundamentally broken. Not sure where best to   post my issue. Here is a brief description:

The printer is  recognised just fine. System Settings > Printing;  HP-LaserJet-1200  icon is visible; clicking brings up properties dialog.  If I click "Print  Test Page", Printer State changes from "Idle" >  "Processing" >  "Idle". Notification appears to say "Printing  completed", but the  printer does nothing, except flash its green  light.

Attempting  to print LibreOffice writer document: Prints only first  page. Status  says "idle", but the green light is winking. No more pages  appear. Item  is no longer shown in the Document Print Status dialog.  Notification  says "Printing completed".

Try to print from Evince Document Viewer. Prints only 
[start]
PCL XL error
Subsystem: KERNEL
Error: IllegalTag
Operator: 0x3d
Position: 3119
[end]
Notification says "Printing completed"

Try  again. Printer State changes very briefly to "Processing", then  back to  "Idle". Nothing printed. Notification says "Printing  completed."

Try to print from plain text file using gedit. Nothing printed. Notification says "Printing completed."

As far as I can tell, printing has completely broken with the installation

If someone could let me know where to pursue this, I would be very grateful.

*************************

*I now have it working - for the workaround to the scenario above, see this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1911796 ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1911796")*

---

