---
title: "8.10 live dvd username and password"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tnjim on 2008-12-29
I downloaded 8.10 ISO, burned to cd but would not run. I ordered 8.10 cd from Linuxcentral but cannot get past username and password screen.
(2) days ago I rec'd Linuxpromagazine with 8.10 dvd and same problem with username and password. I have tried numerous combinations as suggested in several Ubuntu forums with no success.
Most of the answers involve changing the password and/or Grub which one cannot use if if unable to get into the live cd or live dvd.
The message under the login screen reads 'User ubuntu will start in (8) seconds'. Not much time.
For a newbie wanting to migrate from Windoz to Linux this is very discouraging & do not understand the reason why.
Ubuntu 8.04.113 live cd runs fine.
My setup is Windows XP home--32 bit
512 MB RAM--54 GB free

---

### Post by kokkus on 2008-12-29
I havn't got this problem before, but why don't you just install 8.04 and upgrade to 8.10?
Here a link [http://scumbox.com/ubuntu/804pe.iso](http://scumbox.com/ubuntu/804pe.iso)

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2008-12-29
When you are trying to enter this information, is numlock turned on ??  Mine did not turn on by default and I had to manually turn it on to enter name and password.  :P

---

### Post by kokkus on 2008-12-29
> **gettinoriginal said:**
> When you are trying to enter this information, is numlock turned on ??  Mine did not turn on by default and I had to manually turn it on to enter name and password.  :P
But he doesn't have a username and password. It's the live CD.
That's the issue here.

But try what I suggested above.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2008-12-29
> **kokkus said:**
> I havn't got this problem before, but why don't you just install 8.04 and upgrade to 8.10?

++

Personally, I suspect a graphics problem for this situation. It isn't a login problem *per se*, since you don't need to manually log in for the live disc. Instead, you get automatically logged in, something goes wrong, X dies and gets restarted, and dumps you at the login screen. That's what I feel is the likely scenario in this case, anyway.

If you don't want to upgrade from 8.04 LTS, you could try fiddling with the graphics options on the initial menu to see if that helps.

---

