---
title: "[SOLVED] What happens if i click &amp;quot;Next&amp;quot;?"
date: 2007-06-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mainalisuyog on 2007-06-30
Here is something that I saw while I was browsing the net. What happens if i click on "next"? Will it install spyware onto my computer? Just curious. I didn't want to click it myself cause i was afraid it might screw my system.

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2007-06-30
What exactly is the question now?

---

### Post by mainalisuyog on 2007-06-30
sorry, the picture did not get uploaded the first time. Anyways, the banner says i have one update and asks me to tune up my linux system.

---

### Post by silverglade00 on 2007-06-30
Ubuntu won't notify you of an update on a webpage with ads. Best case scenario, it's just a scam.

---

### Post by mainalisuyog on 2007-06-30
That's what i was worried about. So, the scammers have started to target linux systems as well?

---

### Post by Tea4all on 2007-06-30
There is currently no spyware for ubuntu, and very few viruses.  This is either a ad, or a message generated by a website.  In ether case, X out!

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-06-30
I wouldn't do it. If there was an update the Update Notifier would tell you, not a web site. It's probably some scam that will tell you your Registry needs cleaned. Linux doesn't have a Registry.:p

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2007-06-30
lol your "Linux" needs a tune up. Your "insert detected os here" needs a "tune up"...lol

---

### Post by Tomosaur on 2007-06-30
Your operating system is detectable by web-sites, and the red highlighting makes it fairly obvious that it's just an automated message. The creators probably didn't count on you having something other than Windows (Windows 95. 95, 2000, XP, Vista etc etc).

---

