---
title: "8.10 freezes all the time"
date: 2009-01-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by skullomaniac on 2009-01-20
hey ppl
i have an acer aspire with nvidia graphics card and 1gb ram 
8.04 runs smoothly but when i installed 8.10, 5 mins after login my pc systematically freezes and just before that the shutdown menu appears (with all the options like restart ecc.)
i was told that this is not a security problem
i tried to reinstall intrepid but no luck
was the iso corrupt? what could the problem be.. i really don't get it...

---

### Post by sedawk on 2009-01-20
Some things you can try:

* Run the LiveCD. Check if the computer freezes even when using the LiveCD.

* Only start in text mode (interrupt boot via grub, edit the kernel line
and append the word "text" at the end) and then do something like playing
mp3 files (I like mp3blaster to do that, you can install it using
"sudo apt-get install mp3blaster").

* Only start in text mode (and/or graphics mode) and disable sound
  (e.g by blacklisting the sound modules in /etc/modprobe.d/backlist.
   See "lsmod" and start with top-level sound modules). 

This way you might get a hint if the sound card or the graphic card
cause the problem (or if the system still freezes).

* You can also check for any errors in the output of "dmesg" 


For the time being the best solution might be to stay with 8.04.

---

### Post by dabl on 2009-01-20
Right -- what sedawk said.

Plus, you could open a console window and run "top" or "htop" (you might have to install the htop package) and observe which process is hogging the resources at the time of the "freeze".  If it is xorg, there's a video issue.  I noticed, for awhile, that the flash plugin viewer "npviewer" was doing things like that, but it hasn't been happening on flash ver. 10.  Once you know which process is causing the freeze, you can study up on how to control that process.

---

### Post by skullomaniac on 2009-01-20
yeah i'm guessing its got to be the graphics card or the sound..
probably the best advice for me now would be to stick with 8.04. i agree with what you said

---

