---
title: "How to install sane-pixma-backend?"
date: 2022-09-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Acharn on 2022-09-24
I'm running Ubuntu 22.04. I got my Canon G2010 printer working (sudo apt install printer-drivers-gutenprint), but the scanner still is not working. Document Scanner tells me I need to install sane-pixma-backend. Document Scanner helpfully gives a link, that leads to nothing. I've been looking for it for two days now and can't find it. One article from 2008 gives a dead link to github. Ubuntu Software does not recognize it. It's not listed by Synaptic. The SANE Troubleshooting page doesn't exist. I'm doing something wrong. Can anybody help?

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2022-09-24
That's strange. If I go to [http://www.sane-project.org/sane-mfgs.html#Z-CANON](http://www.sane-project.org/sane-mfgs.html#Z-CANON) it lists the G2010 as supported. I don't have any Canon devices, but looking for stuff connected with sane ('locate sane|less') shows that I do have a file /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/sane/libsane-pixma.so.1.1.1 installed from the package libsane1 and 'man sane-pixma' gives a manual page describing the driver and it's configuration. Since libsane1 is marked as automatically installed on my system and the package 'sane' is marked as manually installed, I think I just installed sane and that pulled in the package(s) with all the drivers.

Holger

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2022-09-25
> **Acharn said:**
> I'm running Ubuntu 22.04. I got my Canon G2010 printer working (sudo apt install printer-drivers-gutenprint), but the scanner still is not working. 
Please run the command below and show us the result here in this thread. To open terminal in your desktop just press ctrl + alt + t or just find it in your Ubuntu System Installed application. Regards and cheers. 
```
sudo cat /etc/cups/printers.conf
```

---

### Post by Acharn on 2022-09-25
```

$ sudo cat /etc/cups/printers.conf
[sudo] password for roger: 
# Printer configuration file for CUPS v2.4.1
# Written by cupsd
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE WHEN CUPSD IS RUNNING
NextPrinterId 2
<DefaultPrinter G2010-series>
PrinterId 1
UUID urn:uuid:541cc102-6377-341a-4299-b5f1a677cd30
Info G2010-series
MakeModel Canon G2000 series - CUPS+Gutenprint v5.3.3
DeviceURI usb://Canon/G2010%20series?serial=953AEE&interface=1
State Idle
StateTime 1664079021
ConfigTime 1659431710
Type 36876
Accepting Yes
Shared Yes
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy retry-job
</DefaultPrinter>

```
By the way, the printer was turned on when I ran this.

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2022-09-25
> **Acharn said:**
> ```

DeviceURI usb://Canon/G2010%20series?serial=953AEE&interface=1

```
By the way, the printer was turned on when I ran this.
I don't have much experience using USB connections on printer/scanner machine. I only use network printer/scanner. My printer is currently connected directly to my router and then sharing it. I uses ipp configuration. In their, I can easily configure my printer/scanner using ip addresses configuration to my Ubuntu System Machine. My printer scanner works smoothly with xsane scanner application and Ubuntu simple scan. Regards and cheers

---

### Post by Acharn on 2022-09-26
I discovered that if I set the options in Document Scanner to Single Page/Text, it works. Haven't tried it with Xsane, yet, but I don't need Xsane now. In Document Scanner (simple-scan), you just keep scanning pages and then save the file. The IPScanner utility in Windows required an elaborate setup, specifying output of multipage .pdf. Apparently my problem came from choosing Multiple Pages from flatbed, and Linux, of SANE, sees the Canon G2010 as a USB scanner, which is not the same as a flatbed scanner.

---

