---
title: "8.10 Restart/Shutdown issue(possible bug)"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by OneOfaKindDPC on 2008-11-02
Hey everyone, I just installed a fresh copy of 8.10. Whenever I restart or shut down it will close the GUI, it will go to the blinking command prompt cursor and usually go no further. Once in a while it will start shutting down the modules, but once it gets to the asla (might be acla can't remember) it will stop there and not continue the shutdown unless I kill the power.

Anyone have this issue? I think its a bug. I have this same issue on my desktop (64-bit) and my laptop (32-bit), figure the odds of that aren't likely. 

any help would be greatly appreciated.

Thank you

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-11-02
1) What are your hardware specs for both computers?

2) Could be a bad copy of Ubuntu too.

---

### Post by OneOfaKindDPC on 2008-11-02
the laptop is...

pentium centrino 1.8ghz
2 gb ddr 333hmz
40gb hd
32mb onboard ati graphics card

the desktop is...

3 ghz p4 single core 64 bit
3 gb ddr2 667mhz
300gb sata drive
nvidia gforce 7800 gt oc
onboard sound

If there's any other info I can give you that would help, please let me know. If it was the case where it a bad copy of ubuntu, that means I was lucky enough to receive two bad copies of ubuntu :lolflag:

---

### Post by PC_load_letter on 2008-11-02
> **OneOfaKindDPC said:**
> the laptop is...

...
If there's any other info I can give you that would help, please let me know. If it was the case where it a bad copy of ubuntu, that means I was lucky enough to receive two bad copies of ubuntu :lolflag:

Errors do happen all the time, you may not need to be all that lucky to get them twice. I always check the CDRom for errors before installing, it's one of the options in the Live CD menu. It doesn't take too much time, I'd do that if I were you just to be sure.

---

### Post by OneOfaKindDPC on 2008-11-02
Just ran the cd check, 0 errors found.

---

### Post by PatrickVogeli on 2008-11-02
I doubt it's an error on the cd, since I've had this issue too with more than one install and in diferents computers. Too bad I didn't search for a solution and didn't filled a bug. Sometimes alsa shutdown hangs there for a while when rebooting.

---

### Post by PC_load_letter on 2008-11-02
Could it be related to this bug:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/network-manager/+bug/274995](https://bugs.launchpad.net/network-manager/+bug/274995)

...or any of its duplicates?

---

### Post by OneOfaKindDPC on 2008-11-02
Great find PC_Load_Letter. That apparently was exactly my problem.  heres the fix from another post in that link you provided. For those who are trying to fix their own problem.

Thanks for the help!

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/network-manager/+bug/274995/comments/73](https://bugs.launchpad.net/network-manager/+bug/274995/comments/73)

---

### Post by PC_load_letter on 2008-11-02
No problem. Glad it was resolved.

---

### Post by OneOfaKindDPC on 2008-11-03
I just attempted to do the fix on my laptop. but it was unsuccessful. I have a feel this is due to the fact I'm connected through wireless on the laptop. I'm wired on the desktop. Any idea how I could adjust this?


Thank you once again =)

---

