---
title: "22.04 where is my file system folder?"
date: 2022-09-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-09-28
Just upgraded to Xubuntu 22.04 and my File System folder is no longer on the desktop.  Not something I used often but I'm wondering why it isn't there.  TIA for any answers.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-09-28
Right-click the desktop > "Desktop Settings...", Icons tab, under "Default Icons", is "File System" checked?

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-09-28
I'm not on that machine now but will check later - sounds good, though.  Thanks for responding.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-09-28
> **lou6 said:**
> Just upgraded to Xubuntu 22.04 and my File System folder is no longer on the desktop.  Not something I used often but I'm wondering why it isn't there.  TIA for any answers.

"file system folder?"  What's that?

A folder is a synonym for a directory.
A file system is a specific type of object ... and there are many different file systems.  A file system is usually placed onto a partition, but not always, since there are other methods of volume management which allow file systems to be put onto other types of storage objects - like a logical volume if LVM2 is used.

As for a "system directory", there are many and there is a standard that most Linux distros follow for which files go into which directories.  A summary of that standard is here: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_Hierarchy_Standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_Hierarchy_Standard)  Enjoy.

My point for all of this is that being correct with terms matters so other people understand what you mean.

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-09-28
Thank you for your reply.  Fortunately, halogen2 was able to understand my question and provide the answer I needed.

---

