---
title: "How I recovered from LVM screwup"
date: 2007-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sling Blade on 2007-12-16
I thought I would post my experience with recovering from screwing up my LVM disks. I've read a number of things across the web on this subject but none really seemed to pull it all together into a big picture. I do not take any responsibility for this information screwing your disk up. It worked for me, hopefully it will for you too.

So what happened was that I decided to try to add a new disk to my Ubuntu install using the Fedora Core 5 LVM GUI. Sadly something went horribly wrong, I'm not positive but I think this is what happened: I am migrating from Fedora Core 4, and I had used LVM then as well. On that system sda was the boot disk and sdb was the added disk. Then I migrated the data off of sdb and removed it, and then used it for the new Ubuntu LVM install. I swapped the drives so that sdb was sda... just to make booting easier. The problem with this is that it appears that LVM assigned the same physical volume identifier number to the two disks. So when I tried to add the second disk it was confused and thought sdb2 was really sda2. If this didn't make sense to you don't worry, I'll explain more.

First of all, if you're in this situation, DON'T PANIC. All your data should still be there, it's just a matter of finding it. Also, even though you screwed up your LVM config, you'll be happy to find out that LVM is pretty cool and stores backup configs on the first 512 blocks of every LVM partition. These configs tell LVM what is stored where, and you can use them to restore your device. So, the first part of recovery is to find these configs. To do this you'll need to boot off the live cd. If you installed LVM you probably know this but the default cd doesn't have LVM on it. So you'll need to get that working first:

```

sudo apt-get install lvm2
sudo modprobe dm-mod

```

Now you need to find the old config. This command will read the first 255 blocks of the partition it is passed and put it into the file temp.txt.
```

sudo dd if=/dev/sda2 bs=512 count=255 skip=1 of=/temp.txt

```
Here sda2 is my LVM partition. If you aren't sure what this is, you can use fdisk to find it.

```

sudo fdisk sda
p
q

```

This should show Linux LVM as one of the partitions.

IMPORTANT: I recommend you do this for all your LVM partitions and save them. I did this by storing them on my boot partition. (for me that was mount /dev/sda1 /mnt). If you guess wrong or screw something up, you can come back to these and try something else.

Now open up temp.txt. You should see a lot of garbage but some text as well. For example, you might see a section that looks like this:
```

lvmvolume {
id = "hwNCdD-2ZpH-srDF-TM7F-60V5-gHwr-5O0p9W"
seqno = 3
status = ["RESIZEABLE", "READ", "WRITE"]
extent_size = 8192
max_lv = 0
max_pv = 0

physical_volumes {

pv0 {
id = "K9r11U-yALB-bkoF-XpO0-QBdW-2ke7-Gwrgbo"
device = "/dev/sda2"

status = ["ALLOCATABLE"]
dev_size = 624928500
pe_start = 384
pe_count = 76285
}
}

logical_volumes {

swap {
id = "uyPdJG-bh6l-XoPR-YvqK-Xfjb-pfMN-xqtitE"
status = ["READ", "WRITE", "VISIBLE"]
segment_count = 1

segment1 {
start_extent = 0
extent_count = 512

type = "striped"
stripe_count = 1        # linear

stripes = [
"pv0", 0
]
}
}

root {
id = "gEoabg-Idl0-8e5o-95Na-5xHZ-p357-IUhonO"
status = ["READ", "WRITE", "VISIBLE"]
segment_count = 1

segment1 {
start_extent = 0
extent_count = 75773

type = "striped"
stripe_count = 1        # linear

stripes = [
"pv0", 512
]
}
}

}
}
# Generated by LVM2: Sat Dec 15 23:37:29 2007

contents = "Text Format Volume Group"
version = 1

description = ""

creation_host = "ubuntu"        # Linux ubuntu 2.6.22-14-generic #1 SMP Sun Oct 14 23:05:12 GMT 2007 i686
creation_time = 1197761849      # Sat Dec 15 23:37:29 2007

```

What is tricky is picking the right one. The major clues are when it was created, and if it is showing the right number of physical volumes. This example has only one physical volume, and I had tried to add a second. So the erroneous one that I did NOT choose had 3 physical volumes. This one looked right because the timestamp was close and there was only one physical volume. The physical volumes are defined as pv0, pv1, etc. Notice they have an id, that is what we need to check next. Once you are sure you have the right one, take it and put it into a new file called recover.txt.

Now we'll make sure that your volume wasn't assigned a new physical volume ID. Note the physical volume ID that was in recover.txt for your physical volume. It also says which device it is suppose to be assigned to. Note that LVM gives preference to the ID. This is how it compensates for disks changing letter numbers. So at this point you should ask yourself if you changed the drives around in any way since the config you have in recover.txt was generated. If so, then put your disks back in their original setup so their drive letters are the same. In fact. it is a good idea to disconnect any drive you don't consider part of the original setup to keep things simple. At least keep it in mind when I'm talking about checking the drives have the right physical volume ID. Now do this with:

```

ubuntu@ubuntu:/target$ sudo pvscan -u
  PV /dev/sda2 with UUID K9r11U-yALB-bkoF-XpO0-QBdW-2ke7-Gwrgbo VG lvmvolume   lvm2 [297.99 GB / 0    free]
  Total: 1 [297.99 GB] / in use: 1 [297.99 GB] / in no VG: 0 [0   ]

```

As you can see, my physical volume matches the one in the config file. However before fixing things it was: NyQbjn-XWeV-J5lQ-ZpqP-HhSt-CbX2-fX0uir which was wrong. So I fixed it by typing:
```

sudo pvcreate -u K9r11U-yALB-bkoF-XpO0-QBdW-2ke7-Gwrgbo  /dev/sda2

```
So now we have the right physical volumes with the IDs, and the original config file. We can get the original LVM setup by typing:
```

sudo vgcfgrestore -f /recover.txt lvmvolume

```

Here lvmvolume should be the name of your volume group. If this spits out an error, you probably guessed the wrong config, or your drives aren't setup the same as they were for that config, etc. Go back and try something else until you find something that works.

Now you can make the logical volumes active by typing:
```

sudo vgchange lvmvolume -ay

```

Now you should have lvmvolume in /dev. your logical volumes won't show up but you can still mount them:
```

sudo mount /dev/lvmvolume/root /target

```

If you get an error while mounting, but you're pretty sure you have the right LVM config then you can run fsck on it. This will modify the filesystem so be sure you picked the right LVM config. I had to do this to get mine working:
```

sudo fsck /dev/lvmvolume/root

```

If fsck can't repair it then you probably have some serious issues. It worked for me and mounting after running fsck worked fine. Good luck!

---

### Post by go_dragons on 2008-05-07
This is great information. I did not know that you could pull off old configuration files using dd - very useful! This is useful for  [my problem.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=785769")

I am having a bit of trouble, however. From the output file from dd, I copied a configuration that was the most up to date before the problem occured, and put it in a new recovery file.

pvscan -u showed that my UUID was the same now as it was then (I had not been physically moving disks)

when I try to start the vgcfgrestore I get an error!
```

# vgcfgrestore -f /lvmrecover.txt home_vg
  Parse error at byte 860 (line 64): unexpected token
  Couldn't read volume group metadata.
  Restore failed.

```

I do not understand this error because lvmrecover.txt looks clean. There is not even extraneous whitespace.Thanks for your help, and the informative howto. This is what makes ubuntuforums such a great place to research. I have attached a copy of lvmrecover.txt so you can inspect line 64 for yourself.

---

### Post by go_dragons on 2008-05-08
After I walked away and slept on it, I figured out the meaning of my parse error. There was an extra closing bracket at the end of my recovery file, which prompted me to investigate. I had overlooked it before, but entire configuration for my volume group is enclosed in brackets home_vg{ } but I did not have the starting bracket at the top of the page. Indeed I did not have have the starting bracket at the top of the raw information pulled off with dd either. Aside from that bit of confusion, this howto has been enormously helpful and I have successfully been able to restore my data all thanks to you.

---

