---
title: "10.04 Problems?"
date: 2010-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BobJam on 2010-08-19
I just upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 and have several problems:

1.  Constant freezes requiring restarts.

2.  Screen flickers that are becoming more and more frequent and bothersome.

3.  Inability to select a pointer.

None of this happened with 9.10, which is why I strongly suspect 10.04 is the cause.

I have 4GB of RAM, but am still on a 32 bit version.  My current kernel is 2.6.32-24-generic (i686).  GNOME is 2.30.2.  File system is ext3.  Processor is an Intel Pentium Dual Core T4200 @ 2GHz.  Swap file is 9.5GB.  HDD is 250GB.  Root and home are on different partitions.  Free space on the / partition is 52GB, and on the /home partition is 37GB.  71GB is unallocated.  The system is NOT dual boot . . . the entire HDD is dedicated to Ubuntu.

**Details on FREEZES**[INDENT]The pointer and keyboard become unresponsive so much so that I have to shut down using the power button.  It's not just one app . . . it happens randomly.
[/INDENT]**Details on FLICKERING SCREEN**[INDENT]My machine is an Inspiron 1545, and my VGA is integrated:  "VGA compatible controller, Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller"

The flicker is a black horizontal line that flashes across the screen.  It can be along the top, middle, or bottom, and lately has been a series of horizontal lines almost 2 inckes thick.  So far they have only been millisecond flashes.  Random and very annoying.

I have reduced the "Visual Effects" to "None", tried "Normal", and "Extra".  In all three circumstances it still happens.  The problem with troubleshooting this is that I can't "dublicate" the failure, hence there doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to it.

I have Googled and searched on this forum, and most of the problems of this nature have been related to ATI or Nvidia, neither of which I have.  I have seen a possible solution involving modification of some Grub2 lines, but haven't tried that yet.
[/INDENT]**Details of POINTER issue.**[INDENT]This is an either/or issue.  The pointer I want shows up in any position on the screen IF I have visual effects set to none.

OTOH, IF I have visual effect set to "Normal", or "Extra", then a small white default pointer . . . WHICH I CANNOT CHANGE . . . will show in any areas (like the panel or desktop) outside of a browser session (FF).  Within the browser, the pointer that I want ("WhiteStyle" from Gnome-look.org) will show up regardless of any selection of visual effect.

The "WhiteStyle" pointer WILL show up in any area of the screen ONLY if I have visual effects set to none,
[/INDENT]I have tried reverting to the next kernel down listed in Grub . . . 2.6.32-23 I think . . . but I still have the same three problems.

I have two options in my mind right now:  Either I will reinstall 10.04 (not sure on the method for that, though) or revert back to 9.10 (I have a backup).

Right now I'm so disgusted with 10.04 that my inclination is to go back to 9.10, but I want to give 10.04 a fair chance . . . which is why I'm posting here.

(Am reading through the Sticky on 10.04 issues/bugs and will see if any of it helps).

---

### Post by Redblade20XX on 2010-08-19
If possible, do a fresh install of 10.04 because sometimes upgrading from a previous version causes some faults.

---

### Post by BobJam on 2010-08-19
@ Redblade20XX,

I've been thinking about doing that, but have never done anything other than using a LiveCD for an initial install (way back to 8.04).

So, would I go to the Ubuntu download site, download a 10.04 ISO, burn it, and then install?  I'm guessing that's the same thing as a "LiveCD".

Is probably a real dumb question here, but not sure on the method for that, though as I said in my OP . . ."*not sure on the method for that*".

---

### Post by BobJam on 2010-08-19
OK . . . I did a clean install of 10.04 . . . and all three problems I detailed in my OP are **STILL** with me.

For me, 10.04 **IS NOT** a stable release, though I realize that for many it is . . . so I'll restrain myself from bashing the release and just hope that the next release is much more stable *for me*.

For now, I'm going to play around with it . . . maybe it's some  configuration I have messed up.  And if I still can't get it to be more stable, maybe I'll end up going back to 9.10.

---

### Post by anselm on 2010-08-19
You are not alone a lot of people are having problems you are describing and still no fixes.

---

### Post by BobJam on 2010-08-19
@ anselm.

Yes . . . misery likes company I guess.

But I've seen testimonials on both sides of the fence . . . some claiming that 10.04 is the "best" release, and some claiming it's the "worst".

That's why I'm reluctant to bash it, especially since machines and configs are just as unique as fingerprints and snow flakes.

Nevertheless, I know that so far *for me* it's a real bummer.   However, if someone asked me about upgrading, I'd probably say something like "Didn't work very well for me, but go ahead and try it because it may be fine for you and certain others swear by it".

And before I upgraded, that is indeed the impression I got . . . it was a crap shoot (and in this case I lost).

I have no idea what the percentages are, but my suspicion is that those of us that don't like it are in the minority.  (I hope this is not the Linux version of what Vista was to Windows users.)  If we are in the majority, than Canonical has a real problem on their hands.

Most new releases of any OS are a bit bumpy for the first few months or so, however I do have to say that the three or four releases I have gone through before this were a lot lot smoother.

I guess the Law of Unintended Consequences, or the Law of Averages, or Murphy's Law, or something like that, caught up with me.  This is the first chink in the Linux armor I've seen in the two+ years I've been using it.

Certainly not enough to drive me back to Windows (which as far as I'm concerned has a suit of armor with LARGE DENTS in it that get bigger every day).  The worst that may happen here, if these Canonical folks fail to fix these bugs for those of us that may be in the minority, is that I'll go back to 9.10 and maybe not be such a lunatic fringe Linux fanboy.

---

### Post by jmfal on 2010-08-19
Hi, Bobjam, had some problems similar to yours.

try this in a terminal

       ```
  sudo apt-get install --fix-missing
```

may ask if you want to continue press y then enter
if that doesn`t do anything, try

   ```
   sudo apt-get  -f  install
```

or

    ```
  sudo dpkg --configure -a
```

these commands will try to fix ant broken packages 

if they don`t do anything try to restart into recovery mode and select> try to fix broken packages> will spew code, may ask to continue>y>enter, when done>username>password>startx>enter

if all that and still have problems try the alternate iso

---

### Post by BobJam on 2010-08-21
Update:

After trying all of jmfal's suggestions, and many other efforts . . . all to no avail and no joy . . . I finally ended up going all the way back to 8.10 to get a stable config and also to remedy ALL of the issues in my OP.

Needless to say, it was quite a journey, and I have CD coasters all over the place . . . plus I cursed 10.04 a lot.

I still won't say 10.04 is necessarily "bad", but it CERTAINLY was for me.

In fact, I first tried 9.10 and though it USED to be stable for me and I never had the problems detailed in my OP, it DIDN'T remedy a thing, and was just as bad . . . if not worse . . . than 10.04.

And then I tried 9.04 . . . same result as above.  It was almost as if 10.04 "infected" my system (I doubt if it was like that, but it sure seemed that way).

So at this point was where I was angry, making coasters out of CD's (even tried the "mini.iso"), and if 8.10 hadn't worked I'd probably drop my reluctance to bash 10.04 and really bad-mouth it.

So, while I guess this might be considered "SOLVED", I'm not going to mark it that way because I never was able to get 10.04 to work.

Now I'm consumed with configuring 8.10, but so far it's very stable.  And, as I said, all of the issues I detailed in my OP are remedied with 8.10.  I don't really like having to go so far back, so I'll likely try an upgrade in the future.

And if it doesn't work, I'll always have the Intrepid LiveCD to fall back on.

---

### Post by BobJam on 2010-08-25
Got 8.10 back up to 9.10 OK, but I'm going to stay put at 9.10 for now.  Can I skip from 9.10 to 10.10 when it comes out, or will I first have to go through 10.04?

---

### Post by Whisp3r on 2010-08-31
The flickering relates to Ubuntu's failure to play nicely with the Intel video chip set in your computer. Whatever change occured happened after the leap from 9.10 to 10.04. There is no known fix for this, other then to use 9.10 for now. Hopefully it will be fixed in Meerkat.

---

### Post by juil on 2010-08-31
Hmm, I upgraded to 10.04 recently from Karmic and absolutely no problems. Alot of the problems that people seem to be facing, I haven't encountered yet. I guess I'm fortunate.

---

