---
title: "Screen resolution stuck at 640X480"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ireavus on 2008-04-27
Hi, i'm fairly new to Ubuntu, and have recently installed 8.04 on all three of my computers. The first 2 went fine, but this one is causing some problems. The resolution is stuck on 640X480, and the only other option is 320*240. Ive installed the correct drivers, installed nvidia settings manager, and even tried playing around with the xorg.conf 

The video card is a Geforce 7300, the monitor is an "Insignia" brand 17" crt. The resolution should be 1024X768.

Heres my xorg.conf file, since I guess thats what needs to be changed.

Much thanks in advance, 

Matt




# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

