---
title: "10.04 java: could not find main class"
date: 2010-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mttolmie on 2010-11-08
Ubuntu 10.04, AMD 64 64 bit edition, Sun-6-Java JDK

I am trying to start a simple .class file


****I am in the directory which contains the class files shown by ls
frits@frits-inwin:~/GroovySnippets/classes$ ls  
Fibonacci.class  Fibonacci$_run_closure1.class
****I have a CLASSPATH including the current directory:
frits@frits-inwin:~/GroovySnippets/classes$ echo $CLASSPATH
.:/usr/share/groovy/embeddable/groovy-all-1.0.jar
****I start java"
frits@frits-inwin:~/GroovySnippets/classes$ java Fibonacci
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: groovy/lang/Script
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:248)
	... 12 more
Could not find the main class: Fibonacci.  Program will exit.
****end of terminal contents.
I set every possible permission on Fibonacci.
Any ideas, or is this a bug?

---

### Post by lykeion on 2010-11-09
Make sure you add the directory in which your compiled program resides to the classpath, too.
Notice the added dot (=current dir) after the semicolon in classpath: ```
java -cp $CLASSPATH;. Fibonacci
```

---

### Post by mttolmie on 2010-11-10
Thank you. That runs indeed provided of course that I am executing in that directory.
However, I thought I could run Fibonacci in any directory, provided the directory that contains the class (~/GroovySnippets/classes in this case) is in the CLASSPATH. My example shows that that does not work contrary to my reading of CLASSPATH. I found using the . directory in th classpath statement to be of the essence.

---

### Post by lykeion on 2010-11-10
No problem. Always glad to help a fellow Java coder :) I think the wikipedia entry on Java Classpath explains it very well: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classpath_(Java](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classpath_(Java))

To help others find solutions you might want to tag this thread as SOLVED: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...51&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php...51&postcount=6)

---

