---
title: "compiz is running really slow"
date: 2008-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by winkeljames on 2008-11-22
after installing the last round of updates compiz has started to really drag. It's got my Avant window manager running slower than usual and when I try to move a window it everything goes in slow motion. 
The terminal read-out when I start compiz is:

jim@ubuntu:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 00:02.0 0300: 8086:2562 (rev 01) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: Segmentation fault
present. 
Checking for non power of two support: Segmentation fault
present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Segmentation fault
Comparing resolution (1024x768) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: Segmentation fault
present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
/usr/bin/compiz.real (cube) - Warn: Failed to load slide: freedesktop
/usr/bin/compiz.real (cubecaps) - Warn: Failed to load image: fusioncap.png
/usr/bin/compiz.real (cubecaps) - Warn: Failed to load image: compizcap.png
/usr/bin/compiz.real (cube) - Warn: Failed to load slide: freedesktop


I've tried re-installing xgl but to no avail and I'm already running only the minimal desktop effects. Any help would be welcome.

---

### Post by winkeljames on 2008-11-28
Still working on this. Upgraded to Intrepid and now I can't even turn compiz on. 
The compiz-check read out looks like: 
> Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 8.10
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)
 Driver in use:         intel
 Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [FAIL]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [FAIL]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [FAIL]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
 Error: Unable to detect maximum 3D texture size 

My xorg.conf file looks like: 
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"Intel 845"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"intel"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"Intel"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "1024x768@85" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1024	786
		Modes		"1024x768@85"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"dri"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

Any help at all is very much appreciated.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-28
Hi there.
Sorry to read that your problem hasn't been solved, and that you haven't had any replies yet. I don't know how to help you either, so I'm just going to point you to some places that might help you solve your issues:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=809695](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=809695)
[http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/2008/4/26/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion-074](http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/2008/4/26/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion-074)

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-12-01
> **winkeljames said:**
> Still working on this. Upgraded to Intrepid and now I can't even turn compiz on. 
The compiz-check read out looks like:
Looks like your graphics driver is not configured correctly or something else is blocking it, what's the output of
```
dpkg -l | grep 'fglrx\|nvidia'
```

---

