---
title: "10.04 will mount CDROM but not DVD"
date: 2010-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-05-19
Since a fresh install of 10.04, I've got an issue with not being able to mount my dvd. The cd mounts just fine. *Blueridgedog* gave me some handy tips, which included the code below, making sure that I have libdvdcss2.

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
sudo wget http://www.medibuntu.org/sources.list.d/$(lsb_release -cs).list --output-document=/etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list 
sudo apt-get -q update
sudo apt-get --yes -q --allow-unauthenticated install medibuntu-keyring
sudo apt-get -q update
sudo apt-get install libdvdcss2
```

It appears that quite a few people have a similar if not the same problem. 

I would greatly appreciate if any of you could help out.

Thanks.

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-05-20
I am having similar problems after upgrading to 10.4.  CDs and DVDs, blanks, data, media, everything was read and responded beautifully.  

10.4 upgrade went wonderfully, except for this issue.  Nothing works now.  

When I boot into vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic kernel, nothing works.  All of USB permissions disappeared too, and resetting them in /etc/fstab kind of has 1/2 of the devices writable again. 

When I boot into vmlinuz-2.6.32-22-generic, with a DVD in the drive, it will read it for a few minutes, but after reading a little data off the DVD, it then disappears.  

Am perplexed.  I am wanting to reinstall everything fresh, but I am not confident it will fix the problem.  The hardware has run flawlessly through 4 versions of Ubuntu, so I am not having an issue there.  Have tried to find any solutions and studied bug reports.  Still no joy.

Ideas anyone?  I know others have had CD/DVD issues after this upgrade too.

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-05-22
BUMP! 

There's got to be someone who has the answer to this. I find it hard to believe that 10.04 (the best yet, by far!) should be abandoned due to something this simple. C'mon...

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-05-22
I am such a great proponent of the Ubuntu series, and I do not mind the issues that crop up during upgrades, but admit that the last three upgrades have worn me down a bit.  The loss of my ability to read/write to external devices, and the total loss of being able to see any CD/DVD in my drive when this has been working for the last 3 years... is indeed wearing me down. 

Am backing everything up to install from fresh, 10.4.  And if that fails, it's back to 9.10.  Admit to being slightly bummed...

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-05-22
I've never had very good luck performing operating system upgrades (regardless of the OS).  I have long been in the habit of doing clean installations for new versions.

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-05-22
jamesisin, you are probably right.  I'd had good fortune usually, but the last three have not been so friendly.  Am likely to adopt your policy of fresh installs on desktops going forward...

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-05-22
I do IT support for a living.  I've done Mac, Windows, and Linux upgrades and prefer just doing a fresh installation.  Even when the upgrade process does go well, it's cleaner to have that fresh install anyway.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-22
```
sudo apt-get install libdvdread4
```

```
sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install-css.sh
```

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-05-22
I have this problem too. Here is a bug report I am watching:  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/562092](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/562092)

In my case, it is a problem with my internal dvd burner drives failing to mount. They work under windows and PClinuxOS, and as a boot device, but not within a normal Ubuntu session. This does not effect my usb mounted external dvd burner though.

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-05-22
I have given up.  After a couple of weeks trying to get 10.4 to work, I have to revert back to 9.10.  

I have tried the default install disk for 386 machines, the alternative disk, installing into 9.10 and upgrading to 10.4, the werks.  I get various failures from grub fails to load, DVD fails to mount if I can get the system to run 10.4, and a slew of problems inbetween.  Too many to list.  

After flawless performance going back 3 years and upgrades, 9.10 was messy, but 10.4 just fell apart in my hands.  Sorry to say it, and I know this is not at all easy stuff to manage, but Ubuntu has gone from a fantastic experience to become a worse and worse experience.  I am going back to 9.10 and may have to consider going to a different build because this has become pretty untenable.  I never thought I would say that... but 10.4, after prior version running so well, is not at all pretty.  

Big sigh.  Ubuntu is on the cusp of losing a big fan.

---

### Post by doublewitt on 2010-05-23
For me, the dvd's won't play.
All I get is a blank white image even though the sound works fine... what to do...? I sure would like to be able to fix this...

Other than that, I have NO PROBLEMS with v10.04 - all went fine and I appreciate this version.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-05-23
> **GlennW said:**
> Since a fresh install of 10.04, I've got an issue with not being able to mount my dvd. The cd mounts just fine.
.......

**Mounting** DVDs has little to do with **playing** DVDs which is what the software you installed takes care of.

There should be no entry for the CD/DVD drive in 10.04 in the /etc/fstab file, if you still have one from a previous version then comment it out or delete it.

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-05-23
> **dcstar said:**
> **Mounting** DVDs has little to do with **playing** DVDs which is what the software you installed takes care of.

There should be no entry for the CD/DVD drive in 10.04 in the /etc/fstab file, if you still have one from a previous version then comment it out or delete it.


Thank you for this response.  I have been having just about similar problems on a latop I upgraded too, from 9.10 to 10.4, and doggone it, I commented out the CD/DVD Rom line from the /etc/fstab and it started to read DVDs.  Big sigh... I wish I had come across this before as I don't have the heart to reinstall or upgrade to 10.4 for the 5th time in two days on the desktop that has been failing to run this.  It has also had other issues too, like when trying to install from a DVD, regardless of whether it was the default CD or the Alternate DVD, it failed to boot after a fresh install.  I have seen others reporting that their machine would just sit there with a blank screen after the BIOS check.

Hmmmmmm... will test this out a bit more on this laptop to see if the CD/DVD behavior changes.  I just wonder why if this CD/DVD line needed to be commented out after an upgrade, why wasn't that done automatically?  A heck of a lot of newbies would be stranded as how many would even be able to discover this issue much less be able to open a shell, su and edit change /etc/fstab.  

Anyway, I am just griping.  I appreciate this tip.  I can't believe after all of my research, I didn't come across this one...

Siiiiiiigh.

<EDIT:  Well, while it recognizes a data DVD, it does not recognize a blank DVD.  So, I am not going to venture into yet another upgrade test.  Two days and aside from being burned out, have also diminished my interest in Ubuntu too after 4 years.  Upgrades shouldn't break this most basic things...  I never really minded researching solutions, but admit 10.4 finally got to me>

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-05-24
> **dcstar said:**
> **Mounting** DVDs has little to do with **playing** DVDs which is what the software you installed takes care of.

There should be no entry for the CD/DVD drive in 10.04 in the /etc/fstab file, if you still have one from a previous version then comment it out or delete it.

Hi David,

Thanks for your time on this issue. 

After reading your post I realized that my dvd was mounted. I assume that is why it is displayed in Places>Computer. It is there next to my cd and other devices. 

My fstab is a bit confusing although quite short:

```
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# /dev/sda1       /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
UUID=3bfe6cc5-4028-4ef9-a286-367a780b30ea none            swap    sw              0       0

```

I attempted to use VLC (my all time favourite media player!) to read and play a loaded dvd. This was the error message:

```
Your input can't be opened:
VLC is unable to open the MRL 'computer:///CD%5CDVD%20Drive.drive'. Check the log for details.
```

I'd post the contents of the log file for you but it's empty!

Thanks again!

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2010-05-25
I can't understand why after years of development, something as simple as reading/writing a cd/dvd can't be done. This really troubles me..

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-25
only install mountmanager and set your prefs, no need headhaches with fstab

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2010-05-25
I don't think fstab has anything to do with this..I believe it is an udev libraries problem..in a launchpad thread someone said he could revert the problem by downgrading udev, libudev and libgudev from 151-12 to 151-5, I tried it though and it didn't work for me..

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-06-01
I have tried everything in this post and a pile of other stuff, each claiming to be the answer to the Lucid DVD issue. For me, it has been a futile endeavour. Surely someone with some serious linux knowledge can provide some insight into this for not only me but the others likewise afflicted with this blight. 

How difficult can it be to have DVD support on one distro and then not provide it on the next? What is up with that?

I need some help!

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-06-01
> **GlennW said:**
> I have tried everything in this post and a pile of other stuff, each claiming to be the answer to the Lucid DVD issue. For me, it has been a futile endeavour. Surely someone with some serious linux knowledge can provide some insight into this for not only me but the others likewise afflicted with this blight. 

How difficult can it be to have DVD support on one distro and then not provide it on the next? What is up with that?

I need some help!


Honestly, go back to 9.10.  After two release/upgrades back to back that crumbled in my hands, I went backwards because I burned a lot of time trying to do what you are doing.  I'd just sit back and wait to see if anything happens to fix this.  Agree that it is unfortunate that something as fundamental as CD/DVD support would break so badly for some folks from one version to the next.

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-06-01
> **drhiii said:**
> Honestly, go back to 9.10.  After two release/upgrades back to back that crumbled in my hands, I went backwards because I burned a lot of time trying to do what you are doing.  I'd just sit back and wait to see if anything happens to fix this.  Agree that it is unfortunate that something as fundamental as CD/DVD support would break so badly for some folks from one version to the next.

You know, as much as reverting to 9.10 might solve the DVD problem, it's almost like giving up. The issue is compounded by my linux noobness. I love the fact that 10.04 is noticeably faster than 9.10. I tend to run several graphically intense programs simultaneously and have noticed a marked increase in speed. Hence, my reluctance to go back. I can make do without a DVD on my ubuntu box for a bit.

But, agreeing with you, it's very unfortunate that something like this is so broken.

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-06-01
> **GlennW said:**
> You know, as much as reverting to 9.10 might solve the DVD problem, it's almost like giving up. The issue is compounded by my linux noobness. I love the fact that 10.04 is noticeably faster than 9.10. I tend to run several graphically intense programs simultaneously and have noticed a marked increase in speed. Hence, my reluctance to go back. I can make do without a DVD on my ubuntu box for a bit.

But, agreeing with you, it's very unfortunate that something like this is so broken.


Yessir... I also noted a significant speed increase as I too run graphic intensive programs.  Mainly for photography.  It really is a drag tho, to go backwards.

I started to try and use a laptop with a working DVD drive, and network the two and just utilize one 10.4 w/o CD/DVD, and a 9.10 with a working CD/DVD, but I had it reversed with the laptop running the broken 10.4, and by then having installed my main desktop machine back to 9.10, I knew I should have reversed the installs.  Oh well... but that is what I would do.  One machine to manage CD/DVD, and one machine for multimedia work, if I had a couple of machines.  I run servers more than anything.  Ubuntu has been super in that department. 

The loss of productivity by chasing this problem down reached diminished returns a few weeks ago however.  My time is worth far more than speed.  Anyway, this doesn't solve the issues.  

Managing the complexities of Ubuntu is daunting for sure.  It is a terribly grand and noble undertaking.  It is just a drag that something so fundamental can get so broken... sigh.

---

### Post by Gonzalo_VC on 2010-06-12
> **alejandro.mc said:**
> I can't understand why after years of development, something as simple as reading/writing a cd/dvd can't be done. This really troubles me..

[COLOR="Navy"]Really, people! Such a solid OS, such a nice distro and I cannot use the CD-DVD drive properly now!!??

I found a clue in some other U-forum but didn't work either! ](*,)
sudo mount /dev/cdrom  /media/cdrom -t iso9660

mount: no medium found on /dev/sr0

Alike you guys music CDs do not work, but movie DVDs do!!:confused:
I have just tried a data CD and it worked, too, so I guess is some library related to media that is the problem...

I upgraded from 8.04 to 10.04 and had already the codecs installed... go figure.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-06-13
I've been trying everything that I can find to enable or allow my DVD to play anything much less a commercially produced movie all to no avail.

One post said that after the medibuntu repos and extra codecs were installed/enabled, that I should be able to open vlc>open disc>(whatever device your dvd drive is)>play and it will work. 

Nope!

This is the error message that vlc produces after that exercise:

```
Playback failure:
DVDRead could not open the disc "/dev/sr0".
Your input can't be opened:
VLC is unable to open the MRL 'dvd:///dev/sr0'. Check the log for details.

```

I have no idea what this means. Does anyone else?

---

### Post by killabee44 on 2010-06-14
Well for me, my dvd's work, but my data dvd's do not. Go figure. Weird. Im still researching...

Ok, I made a mistake. it looks like I can't mount a data dvd with pics on it, not cd's (I thought it was a cd). 

It looks like in Nautilus, the system tries to mount the dvd drive and does for a second, but it's called:

"VRD_MC3"

then, the mount disappears and I can't get to the data. This dvd mounts fine in windows so Im not sure what's up. I think Ill start a new thread since this one is different.

---

### Post by killabee44 on 2010-06-14
Guys,

The answer might be to upgrade the kernel to 2.6.34. Check out this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475253&highlight=fstab+cdrom]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475253&highlight=fstab+cdrom")

or: 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1502874]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1502874")


That guy had a different issue but was dvd/cd related.

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-06-15
> **killabee44 said:**
> Guys,

The answer might be to upgrade the kernel to 2.6.34. Check out this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475253&highlight=fstab+cdrom]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475253&highlight=fstab+cdrom")

or: 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1502874]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1502874")


That guy had a different issue but was dvd/cd related.

Nope! I've now got a nice shiny new kernel, no nVidia graphics issues, but still no DVD joy!

Thanks for the thought into this though.

---

### Post by anivegmin on 2010-06-15
Same problem here with cd/dvd not mounting or randomly unmounting.

Thought I had fixed it but I was wrong. See this thread -

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1502874]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1502874")

This is a major show stopping problem that seems to be effecting a lot of users.

Why isn't it being fixed ?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-06-15
> **GlennW said:**
> 
.........
My fstab is a bit confusing although quite short:

```
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# /dev/sda1       /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
UUID=3bfe6cc5-4028-4ef9-a286-367a780b30ea none            swap    sw              0       0

```
.........

All right, that is definitely not correct and indicates that your installation do not process correctly.

There should be a UUID entry for your root filesystem - unless you did not accurately post that information.

If it is accurate, your DVD issues may just be symptoms of a faulty Ubuntu installation.

Here is part of my fstab file as an example:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system>					<mount point>	<type>		<options>			<dump>  <pass>
proc						/proc		proc		defaults				0  0
#
UUID=adaf9c80-1d4e-40d8-a7f6-171f6523c8e1	/		ext4		errors=remount-ro			0  1
#
# sdb5
UUID=7da08b6e-554e-4779-aafe-5ebfc8b92366	none            swap		sw					0  0
#
```

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-06-15
Thanks, David, for taking a look at this. I had found a post somewhere that said that Lucid didn't use fstab for media control so I discounted it.

How can I determine what I should put into my fstab to reflect the CD-ROM and the DVD drives? Disk Utility recognizes both so I'm thinking it's a mounting issue but beyond that I'm clueless.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by anivegmin on 2010-06-15
I might be wrong here but I think they changed the way cd/dvd drives are mounted a while back and there shouldn't be any lines in fstab for cd/dvd drives ?

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-06-16
> **anivegmin said:**
> I might be wrong here but I think they changed the way cd/dvd drives are mounted a while back and there shouldn't be any lines in fstab for cd/dvd drives ?

As far as I know, CD/DVD mounting was changed with Lucid. Shortly after upgrading and realizing that my DVD wasn't able to play, I, assuming mounting was the same as 9.10, went straight to fstab, thinking that was all that required tweaking. 

So, if mounting instructions are not in fstab, where are they? How can instruct Lucid to mount and play DVD?

---

### Post by anivegmin on 2010-06-16
Yeah I originally thought that. But I have had this problem for a while now and after scouring the forums trying to find a fix it seems there should be no entries in fstab for cd drives with Lucid ? I am no expert and I don't really understand how this works (I think it may be something to do with udev ? But again I don't really know why. Every "fix", fstab edit, kernel upgrade etc. has not worked for me, very frustrating. There seem to be a number of users in the same predicament with no solution.

I have filed a bug report at Launchpad -[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/594532]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/594532")

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-06-16
> **anivegmin said:**
> Yeah I originally thought that. But I have had this problem for a while now and after scouring the forums trying to find a fix it seems there should be no entries in fstab for cd drives with Lucid ? I am no expert and I don't really understand how this works (I think it may be something to do with udev ? But again I don't really know why. Every "fix", fstab edit, kernel upgrade etc. has not worked for me, very frustrating. There seem to be a number of users in the same predicament with no solution.

I have filed a bug report at Launchpad -[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/594532]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/594532")

I, too, have tried every "fix" that I could find. I was about to file a bug report but you beat me to it! Good on you.

Hopefully there will be a fix coming soon when canonical realizes the weight of this issue.

Good luck!

---

### Post by 300Z on 2010-06-16
> **wojox said:**
> 
```
sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install-css.sh
```

This worked for me. Thank you.

---

### Post by pspsilveira on 2010-06-29
I am new here, but I am finding lots of people having the same DVD problem, and many repetitions along these forums. I do not know if it helps, but I posted #10
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9526546#post9526546](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9526546#post9526546)

It worked for me but, if it was that simple, others should figure it out before me.

---

### Post by Ole Juul on 2010-07-09
> **pspsilveira said:**
> I am new here, but I am finding lots of people having the same DVD problem, and many repetitions along these forums. I do not know if it helps, but I posted #10
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9526546#post9526546](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9526546#post9526546)

It worked for me but, if it was that simple, others should figure it out before me.
I just tried that and it does not work here. In fact it just made it so it wouldn't boot with a CD sitting in the tray. One step backwards. :(

I've been working on this problem for a while and so far it just looks like there's not going to be CD/DVD support for everyone in 10.04. Hopefully the next kernel upgrade will have the fix.

---

### Post by anivegmin on 2010-08-05
Installing 2.6.34 did not work for me.

Well the latest kernel (2.6.35) was released for Ubuntu a couple of days back. This has solved my CD/DVD mounting problems.

Add ppa:kernel-ppa/ppa to your software source list

Reload - then search for "2.6.35" in Synaptic.

Install the following 3 packages (make sure you choose the correct 3 for either 32 or 64 bit. 14 is the latest in the repository so this may change)

linux-headers-2.6.35-14
linux-headers-2.6.35-14-generic
linux-image-2.6.35-14-generic

This kernel will now be the default. Everything now works for me and I have had no problems with it.

---

### Post by mainak_sen on 2010-08-14
Well I am having the same problem!
I have posted it here [http://newyork.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1552109](http://newyork.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1552109)

Anyway, the problem is this:

I have recently installed Lucid on an Acer Aspire 5570Z laptop. It has an Optiarc DVD RW AD-7530A DVD-RAM writer. I am having trouble in playing video/movies on DVD.

When I am inserting a movie DVD, the drive is working (i.e. is busy) continuously but the disc is not being recognized and mounted. Disc Utility is showing "No Media Detected".
The same DVD discs are playing OK in my desktop (running Hardy) and on another laptop (running Lucid).

Please note, however, that Audio and data CDs are playing/reading OK in the same drive. Even blank DVDs are being recognized and mounted OK.


===========

*-cdrom
description: DVD-RAM writer
product: DVD RW AD-7530A
vendor: Optiarc
physical id: 1
bus info: scsi@1:0.0.0
logical name: /dev/cdrom
logical name: /dev/cdrw
logical name: /dev/dvd
logical name: /dev/dvdrw
logical name: /dev/scd0
logical name: /dev/sr0
version: EX31
capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r dvd-ram
configuration: ansiversion=5 status=busy


==== 

I tried Anivegmin's suggestion and installed the latest kernel...but that did not solve the problem. It is behaving the same way as before. Can anybody help please?

TIA!

---

### Post by deserthowler on 2010-08-14
I tried a upgrade from 9.10 but had some problems (I think I broke 9.10 with the Mozilla Firefox install).

Did a fresh install and it works fine.  I am using VLC and the codecs from Medibuntu.  Can read and write DVDs/CDs, data and commercial movies with no problem.  I added the disk mounter applet as sometimes, for some reason, DVD/CD not mounted but the applet seems to handle it.

I then made a backup with remastersys and installed on my laptop.  It works fine too (after a little hacking with remastersys).

Here is my fstab
```


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=077edb68-eb5c-4d7d-89eb-724e75cc6b69 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/sda5       none            swap    sw              0       0


```

I use no proprietary drivers for video and 32 bit install.

Earl

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-09-30
I had left this issue alone for a while using a different box for my DVD viewing. I was hoping that after a new kernal and subsequent updates that this issue would be fixed. 

I, on a lark, threw a disc into the DVD drive loaded with family pics. The drive spooled up and bingo! I've got pics on my desktop. Filled with hope, I popped in *Cinderella Man*. 

The drive begins it search and then - nothing... It won't even spool up.

So, what gives?

---

### Post by leona on 2011-07-09
> **wojox said:**
> 
```
sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install-css.sh
```
Just like to say thank you, as this fixed my problem too.

---

