---
title: "Matlab cannot find JRE in 9.04"
date: 2009-06-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TAFKARS on 2009-06-22
Hi all

Attempting to install matlab in 9.04, but fails when it tries to locate the java runtime environment. Weird, as it manages to get most of the way through until it fails when attempting to initialise the activation process.

I have the most recent version of JRE installed on my machine, and this was done through synaptic.

Any help would be great!

Apologies if this post is in the wrong place, I have also put it into 'Education and Science'

---

### Post by TAFKARS on 2009-06-23
Bump.

Will also add the error from my other post in Education & Science. Apologies for the mess and length, but I am not sure what (if any of this) is relevant. Something to do with my 64 bit system? Any comments would be very welcome!


Extracting ftp files . . . [please wait]
Extracting matlab.common
Extracting matlab.glnx86
Extracting tbx.signal.common
Extracting tbx.signal.glnx86
Extracting tbx.images.common
Extracting tbx.images.glnx86
Finished extracting ftp files.
Starting installer ...
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Error: Cannot locate Java Runtime Environment (JRE).
The directory /usr/share/matlab2008b/sys/java/jre/glnxa64/jre does not exist.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
me@-laptop:~/Desktop/mathworks_downloads/R2008b/unix$ matlab
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Warning: Cannot locate Java Runtime Environment (JRE) . . .

1. Either a correct JRE was not available for redistribution when
this release was shipped, in which case you should refer to the
Release Notes for additional information about how to get it.

2. Or you have tried to use the MATLAB_JAVA environment variable
to specify an alternate JRE, but MATLAB cannot find it. Please
run 'matlab -n' to determine what value you are using for
MATLAB_JAVA and fix accordingly.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

matlab: No MATLAB bin directory for this machine architecture.

ARCH = glnxa64

me@laptop:~/Desktop/mathworks_downloads/R2008b/unix$ matlab -n
------------------------------------------------------------------------
-> (.matlab7rc.sh) sourced from directory (DIR = $MATLAB/bin)
-> DIR = /usr/share/matlab2008b/bin
------------------------------------------------------------------------
a = argument e = environment r = rcfile s = script
------------------------------------------------------------------------
-> r MATLAB = /usr/share/matlab2008b
-> LM_LICENSE_FILE = (variable not defined)
-> MLM_LICENSE_FILE = (variable not defined)
-> s AUTOMOUNT_MAP =
-> e DISPLAY = :0.0
-> r ARCH = glnxa64
-> s TOOLBOX = /usr/share/matlab2008b/toolbox
-> r XAPPLRESDIR = /usr/share/matlab2008b/X11/app-defaults
-> r XKEYSYMDB = /usr/share/matlab2008b/X11/app-defaults/XKeysymDB
-> e MAX_OPEN_FILES = 1024
-> s _JVM_THREADS_TYPE =
-> e MATLAB_JAVA =
-> s MATLAB_MEM_MGR =
-> s MATLAB_DEBUG =
-> s LD_LIBRARY_PATH = /usr/share/matlab2008b/sys/os/glnxa64:/usr/share/m
atlab2008b/bin/glnxa64:/usr/share/matlab2008b/extern/lib/glnxa64:/lib/amd64/nati
ve_threads:/lib/amd64
-> a arglist =
-> e SHELL = /bin/bash
-> e PATH = /usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:
/sbin:/bin:/usr/games

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Warning: Cannot locate Java Runtime Environment (JRE) . . .

1. Either a correct JRE was not available for redistribution when
this release was shipped, in which case you should refer to the
Release Notes for additional information about how to get it.

2. Or you have tried to use the MATLAB_JAVA environment variable
to specify an alternate JRE, but MATLAB cannot find it. Check
the value of MATLAB_JAVA above and fix accordingly.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

-> s MATLABPATH = (initial version)
/usr/share/matlab2008b/toolbox/local


-> $MATLAB/toolbox/local/pathdef.m -
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| function p = pathdef
| %PATHDEF Search path defaults.
| % PATHDEF returns a string that can be used as input to MATLABPATH
| % in order to set the path.
|
|
| % Copyright 1984-2007 The MathWorks, Inc.
| % $Revision: 1.4.2.2 $ $Date: 2007/06/07 14:45:14 $
|
|
| % DO NOT MODIFY THIS FILE. IT IS AN AUTOGENERATED FILE.
| % EDITING MAY CAUSE THE FILE TO BECOME UNREADABLE TO
| % THE PATHTOOL AND THE INSTALLER.
|
| p = [...
| %%% BEGIN ENTRIES %%%
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/general;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/ops;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/lang;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/elmat;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/randfun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/elfun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/specfun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/matfun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/datafun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/polyfun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/funfun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/sparfun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/scribe;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/graph2d;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/graph3d;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/specgraph;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/graphics;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/uitools;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/strfun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/imagesci;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/iofun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/audiovideo;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/timefun;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/datatypes;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/verctrl;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/codetools;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/helptools;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/demos;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/timeseries;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/hds;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/guide;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/plottools;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/local;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/shared/controllib;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/shared/dastudio;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/matlab/datamanager;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/images/colorspaces;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/images/images;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/images/imdemos;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/images/imuitools;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/images/iptformats;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/images/iptutils;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/shared/imageslib;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/shared/spcuilib;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/signal/signal;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/signal/sigtools;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/signal/sptoolgui;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/signal/sigdemos;', ...
| matlabroot,'/toolbox/shared/siglib;', ...
| %%% END ENTRIES %%%
| ...
| ];
|
| p = [userpath,p]

---

### Post by kauboy on 2009-06-23
Did you run the installer using sudo? I'm running Ubuntu 9.04 64-bit and MATLAB R2009a without problems. I'll look into the lines you've posted and see what I can make out of it.

---

### Post by TAFKARS on 2009-06-23
> **kauboy said:**
> Did you run the installer using sudo? I'm running Ubuntu 9.04 64-bit and MATLAB R2009a without problems. I'll look into the lines you've posted and see what I can make out of it.

Thanks for the reply, kauboy. Yes I ran the installer as sudo.

---

### Post by kauboy on 2009-06-23
From first impression, those lines definitely point to a wrong directory. In my system, where MATLAB is already installed, the directory /usr/share/matlab*** doesn't exist. (What was I babbling!! I just didn't install it there while it seems you did. I must've been out of my mind for a few seconds.) I'm not sure how far your installer progressed but it hasn't installed the jre folder into your matlab directory. You'll simply have to reinstall it or find those files in the installer DVD and copy-paste them and hope that's exactly what the installer would have done if it had completed properly.

---

### Post by kauboy on 2009-06-23
Those lines are a bit confusing. It shows "Starting installer..." Then JRE not found error. You still are able to run matlab in the terminal and get the environment variables, how far did the installer progress?? Is MATLAB already installed?? If so, it seems to be in the /usr/share/matlab2008b/ directory. My directory is /home/kauboy/MatlabR2009a/ and it has the required JRE files in the /home/kauboy/MatlabR2009a/sys/java/jre/glnxa64/jre directory, I just checked it manually. It seems that in your case, those files were not installed. Check if you have that directory in your /usr/share/matlab2008b, which is the Matlab root, as shown by the line "-> r MATLAB = /usr/share/matlab2008b".

---

### Post by TAFKARS on 2009-06-23
Really appreciate your help, kauboy, but unfortunately your suggestion did not work. The same error regarding JRE appears.

Written prior to noticing your next response, will read and post again!

---

### Post by TAFKARS on 2009-06-23
Huge thanks to kauboy for all his help. The problem is within the matlab installer, which has difficulty with 64bit systems wanting to run 32bit Java, please have a look at the link below which helped me to solve this problem.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-717976.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-717976.html)

---

### Post by kauboy on 2009-06-23
Oh yeah! I forgot all about the 32-bit libraries. I guess that's why your installer couldn't complete. I think the ia32-libs should be made a part of the original 64-bit OS installation itself. :D

---

### Post by oooh on 2009-10-27
Similar problem here, I get this when running the installer in SUDO:

cp: no se puede efectuar `stat' sobre «/media/isomount/update/bin/glnxa64/*»: No existe el fichero ó directorio
Error writing to /tmp/12373tmwinstall
The installer is unable to copy files to /tmp.
Make sure that /tmp exists, is writable, and has
at least 5 megabytes of available space.

I have enough hard drive space, but I think the problem is that it does not find the bins for a 64 bit install (glnxa64 folder)

Is there a work around to install the other glnx86, which I have in my 64 bits system? Or must I have the matlab 64 bits version ????

By the way, I just found this interesting thing:

[http://www.mathworks.com/support/solutions/en/data/1-O7POO/index.html?solution=1-O7POO](http://www.mathworks.com/support/solutions/en/data/1-O7POO/index.html?solution=1-O7POO)

May help some people here!

---

