---
title: "17.10 - Display brightness popup"
date: 2017-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by makitso on 2017-10-22
Running a clean install of ubuntu 17.10 on my Dell laptop and I have tlp installed.  Anyway, Getting an annoying display brightness popup all the time.  Is there anyway to turn  it off or disable?


[IMG]https://skatekey.net/brightness.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by ariek on 2017-10-29
Same here with my Dell XPS13 9333, very annoying. Any solution yet?

---

### Post by vanadium on 2017-11-01
You mean the popup shows up randomly? It is supposed to pop up while you are changing the brightness using the keyboard. I am not aware of a way to disable that indicator. However, I do not find it obtrusive.

---

### Post by dafeens on 2017-11-13
> **vanadium said:**
> You mean the popup shows up randomly? It is supposed to pop up while you are changing the brightness using the keyboard. I am not aware of a way to disable that indicator. However, I do not find it obtrusive.

Same here, 2 different laptops: both XPS 13 running 17.10

Happens more frequently right after boot.  ~ 5 times / minute.   This occurs when *not* using keyboard at all i.e. watching youtube or reading a doc.

---

### Post by phrenq2 on 2017-11-26
Hello,

In case it can help, I had this issue on a fresh Ubuntu 17.10 installation on my 4 years old Dell XPS 13. But after I upgrade the packages and rebooted, the problem was gone... so it might have been solved in the meantime ??

F.

---

### Post by phrenq2 on 2017-11-26
By the way, I think the icon is not about the screen brightness but the keyboard backlit, that can be controlled by Fn-F6.

---

