---
title: "10.04 How to install tar.bz2"
date: 2010-09-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2010-09-23
I have searched and found many many answers to this request. None of them work for me. Either the file is not contained, or it doesn't seem to work. The end point here is I can't get the d*mn thing to install.
Here are the details:
I want to install gimp-gap-2.6.0.
I have downloaded the file.
I did the ```
./configure
```
Please see Screenshot_1
That's it. I tried ```
make
```
No go.
This is old hat, I am aware.
I have searched for four days now, and I'm red in the face, both from embarrassment and from frustration.

---

### Post by viralmeme on 2010-09-23
> **thelugnut said:**
> I want to install gimp-gap-2.6.0

If you want to compile from source then ./configure, make, make install else:

$sudo apt-get install gimp-gap

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2010-09-23
I appreciate your reply... but...

> If you want to compile from source then ./configure, make, make install else:

This is the answer I receive all the time.

In my original post, 
> That's it. I tried
Code:

make

No go.

You see, that just doesn't work for me. It is getting frustrating because there are other downloads I may want in the future.

---

### Post by Irony on 2010-09-23
You have to first;

> cd ~/Downloads/gimp-gap-2.6.0

---

### Post by Irony on 2010-09-23
Also gimp-gap is in the repositories so there is really no need to compile it in the first place - just install via synaptic.

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-09-23
```
neil@neil-desktop:~/Downloads/gimp-gap-2.6.0$ ./configure
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for a thread-safe mkdir -p... /bin/mkdir -p
checking for gawk... gawk
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking whether to enable maintainer-specific portions of Makefiles... no
checking build system type... x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
checking host system type... x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
checking for gcc... gcc
checking for C compiler default output file name... a.out
checking whether the C compiler works... yes
checking whether we are cross compiling... no
checking for suffix of executables... 
checking for suffix of object files... o
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... yes
checking for gcc option to accept ISO C89... none needed
checking for style of include used by make... GNU
checking dependency style of gcc... gcc3
checking for library containing strerror... none required
checking for gcc... (cached) gcc
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... (cached) yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... (cached) yes
checking for gcc option to accept ISO C89... (cached) none needed
checking dependency style of gcc... (cached) gcc3
checking how to run the C preprocessor... gcc -E
checking for grep that handles long lines and -e... /bin/grep
checking for egrep... /bin/grep -E
checking for ANSI C header files... yes
checking for ranlib... ranlib
checking for sys/types.h... yes
checking for sys/stat.h... yes
checking for stdlib.h... yes
checking for string.h... yes
checking for memory.h... yes
checking for strings.h... yes
checking for inttypes.h... yes
checking for stdint.h... yes
checking for unistd.h... yes
checking for unistd.h... (cached) yes
checking for bind_textdomain_codeset... yes
checking for pkg-config... /usr/bin/pkg-config
checking pkg-config is at least version 0.9.0... yes
checking for GIMP... configure: error: Package requirements (gimp-2.0 >= 2.6.0 gimpui-2.0 >= 2.6.0 gimpthumb-2.0) were not met:

[B]No package 'gimp-2.0' found
No package 'gimpui-2.0' found
No package 'gimpthumb-2.0' found
[/B]
Consider adjusting the PKG_CONFIG_PATH environment variable if you
installed software in a non-standard prefix.

Alternatively, you may set the environment variables GIMP_CFLAGS
and GIMP_LIBS to avoid the need to call pkg-config.
See the pkg-config man page for more details.

neil@neil-desktop:~/Downloads/gimp-gap-2.6.0$ 

```

Trying to replicate your problem by downloading and attempting to install gimp-gap from source but I get a funny error (in bold) when I run "./configure" so I am not of much assistance currently :/

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2010-09-24
Mr/Mrs Irony,
I am well aware of the fact that I can install via SPM.. That would resolve one tiny part of my problem. The point is, I have not been able to ascertain how to install these types of programs and I want to learn how to do it. There are other programs that can't be installed with Synaptic. I am not a new user here. I have been an Ubuntu user since 2007. That's three years and I have successfully downloaded and installed possibly three of these type files. 
Now I want to know what the heck I'm missing. If everybody is having the same problems, then please tell me. If there are some out there that do not have any problems, let me know what you are doing, so I can do it too.
Thank you.:confused:

---

### Post by baddog144 on 2010-09-24
The output from 
```

./configure

```
would be very helpful

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-09-24
> **thelugnut said:**
> Mr/Mrs Irony,
I am well aware of the fact that I can install via SPM.. That would resolve one tiny part of my problem. The point is, I have not been able to ascertain how to install these types of programs and I want to learn how to do it. There are other programs that can't be installed with Synaptic. I am not a new user here. I have been an Ubuntu user since 2007. That's three years and I have successfully downloaded and installed possibly three of these type files. 
Now I want to know what the heck I'm missing. If everybody is having the same problems, then please tell me. If there are some out there that do not have any problems, let me know what you are doing, so I can do it too.
Thank you.:confused:

> **baddog144 said:**
> The output from 
```

./configure

```
would be very helpful

> neil@neil-desktop:~/Downloads/gimp-gap-2.6.0$ ./configure
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for a thread-safe mkdir -p... /bin/mkdir -p
checking for gawk... gawk
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking whether to enable maintainer-specific portions of Makefiles... no
checking build system type... x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
checking host system type... x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
checking for gcc... gcc
checking for C compiler default output file name... a.out
checking whether the C compiler works... yes
checking whether we are cross compiling... no
checking for suffix of executables... 
checking for suffix of object files... o
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... yes
checking for gcc option to accept ISO C89... none needed
checking for style of include used by make... GNU
checking dependency style of gcc... gcc3
checking for library containing strerror... none required
checking for gcc... (cached) gcc
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... (cached) yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... (cached) yes
checking for gcc option to accept ISO C89... (cached) none needed
checking dependency style of gcc... (cached) gcc3
checking how to run the C preprocessor... gcc -E
checking for grep that handles long lines and -e... /bin/grep
checking for egrep... /bin/grep -E
checking for ANSI C header files... yes
checking for ranlib... ranlib
checking for sys/types.h... yes
checking for sys/stat.h... yes
checking for stdlib.h... yes
checking for string.h... yes
checking for memory.h... yes
checking for strings.h... yes
checking for inttypes.h... yes
checking for stdint.h... yes
checking for unistd.h... yes
checking for unistd.h... (cached) yes
checking for bind_textdomain_codeset... yes
checking for pkg-config... /usr/bin/pkg-config
checking pkg-config is at least version 0.9.0... yes
checking for GIMP... configure: error: Package requirements (gimp-2.0 >= 2.6.0 gimpui-2.0 >= 2.6.0 gimpthumb-2.0) were not met:

No package 'gimp-2.0' found
No package 'gimpui-2.0' found
No package 'gimpthumb-2.0' found

Consider adjusting the PKG_CONFIG_PATH environment variable if you
installed software in a non-standard prefix.

Alternatively, you may set the environment variables GIMP_CFLAGS
and GIMP_LIBS to avoid the need to call pkg-config.
See the pkg-config man page for more details.

neil@neil-desktop:~/Downloads/gimp-gap-2.6.0$

Hello thelugnut,

I really don't want to hi-jack your thread but above it the output from me running ./configure after downloading and extracting the gimp-gap from the web in tar.bz2 format in Ubuntu 10.04 in Virtualbox... Not sure what your error is but this is what I got and I would also like to know what I (we) are doing wrong :)

---

### Post by baddog144 on 2010-09-24
At the very least, you need to install GIMP, it looks like.

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-09-24
> **baddog144 said:**
> At the very least, you need to install GIMP, it looks like.

Haha... yes yes, that is done... installed GIMP from the Packet Manager before trying this :p

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2010-09-24
I was really hopeful to get some sensible answers.but ...
Thanks anyway.:(

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-09-24
> **thelugnut said:**
> I was really hopeful to get some sensible answers.but ...
Thanks anyway.:(

Well seeing as I am currently running Slackware on my laptop and I can't think that compiling from source can be that much different in Ubuntu than in Slackware (if any) I also NEED to know how and understand so I am hoping you (and me) still get someone with a lot of knowledge to assist (in the mean time I will try and find out via manuals and Google etc. :D if I find anything I will definitely post it here and please do the same!)

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-09-24
Just downloaded and installed and even un-installed this in my Slackware running laptop without any problems...

./configure
make
make install
make uninstall

Not sure what Ubuntu's problem is? (Once I get time I will uninstall GIMP and re-install it from source too then try GAP again, heck worth a shot!)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-09-24
> **nlsthzn said:**
> checking for GIMP... configure: error: Package requirements (gimp-2.0 >= 2.6.0 gimpui-2.0 >= 2.6.0 gimpthumb-2.0) were not met:

No package 'gimp-2.0' found
No package 'gimpui-2.0' found
No package 'gimpthumb-2.0' found

It's looking for the header and development files (-dev) it needs to compile. Quite often you can find these dependencies listed in either README or INSTALL, or on the website where you downloaded the source code.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingSoftware](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingSoftware)

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-09-25
> **oldos2er said:**
> It's looking for the header and development files (-dev) it needs to compile. Quite often you can find these dependencies listed in either README or INSTALL, or on the website where you downloaded the source code.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingSoftware](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingSoftware)

Uninstalled GIMP from package manager then downloaded a GIMP tar-ball but was unable to install as I ran into dependency hell :(

So will have a look at the readme as mentioned above rather and see if I get any wiser :)

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2010-09-25
Hi nlsthzn,

> **nlsthzn said:**
> Well seeing as I am currently running Slackware on my laptop and I can't think that compiling from source can be that much different in Ubuntu than in Slackware 

It is actually very different as Slackware does not split source code into separate packages, there are no -dev files in Slackware. Thus out of the box it is a better compiling environment than Ubuntu. Having said that all of these -dev files are available for download and installation on Ubuntu and there is even a command to assemble the build requirements that the Ubuntu packager has used:
```

sudo apt-get build-dep <package-name>
```

which is discussed in the documentation that Ann linked to.

Andrew

---

### Post by nlsthzn on 2010-09-25
> **andrew.46 said:**
> Hi nlsthzn,



It is actually very different as Slackware does not split source code into separate packages, there are no -dev files in Slackware. Thus out of the box it is a better compiling environment than Ubuntu. Having said that all of these -dev files are available for download and installation on Ubuntu and there is even a command to assemble the build requirements that the Ubuntu packager has used:
```

sudo apt-get build-dep <package-name>
```

which is discussed in the documentation that Ann linked to.

Andrew

Hi Andrew...

Well just shows you what noob I am, thanks for clarifying that for me!

---

