---
title: "how do i change monitor resolution"
date: 2006-03-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by njzillest on 2006-03-15
how do i change my monitor resolution. I have a screen floating around my computer saying "out of range set montitor to 1280X1024@60 HZ.


i have an ATI radeon x300 128 mb of ram. My monitor is a Hp pavilion f1903.

how can i set it to 1280X1024, right now everything on my montor is huge. thank you>

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2006-03-15
Please post your xorg.conf file:

```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by astyanax on 2006-03-15
Your settings for X are in the xorg.conf file.  It is located at:
/etc/X11/xorg.conf

Backup the file first before changing anything:
```
sudo /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup

```

and then open the file and search for:
Section "Screen"

There will be subsections that will allow to change the resolution modes.

---

### Post by njzillest on 2006-03-15
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc101"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X300 SE (RV370)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	VideoRam	128
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"hp f1903"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-100
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X300 SE (RV370)"
	Monitor		"hp f1903"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by astyanax on 2006-03-15
I apologize.  The command to copy is cp.

Do:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup

```
To backup the file.

Then you can edit it using gedit and you can always revert back to the saved version in case you enter in something wrong into that file.

---

### Post by njzillest on 2006-03-15
i did the xorg configuration 3 times. i dont know what im doing wrong though. it autodetected my graphics hardware, (the monitor and the graphics card)

i dont know what it ment by the veritacle and horizontal thing. i set the screen to 1280X1024. 


ubuntu was working yesterday after i installed it, the monitor was perfext. 

ubuntu also works fine with my toshiba r/10 with an intel graphics card

---

### Post by njzillest on 2006-03-15
i dont really know how to edit it, im a bit of a n00b as you can see.. 

any help would be greatly appreciated..


thanx

---

### Post by astyanax on 2006-03-15
Just put in the resolution you want anywhere you see:
"1280x1024"

Like if you want 800x600 resolution, replace "1280x1024" with "800x600" and restart X (CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE).

---

### Post by njzillest on 2006-03-15
it has lead to a much larger problem. i hit ctrl+alt+bkspace and it said the xorg is configured wrong.. then it asked me if iwant to review it. 


it took me to a black screen for login. i cant log in because it allways sais the xorg is configured wrong


how can i resolve this problem? what did i go wrong in (look at my stats from from the previous post) 


thanx

---

### Post by njzillest on 2006-03-15
could it be these 

 HorizSync 30-100
VertRefresh 50-160


i had no idewa what it was when i edited it.

is there a way i can acess the xorg thing through the login (seems like a terminal)

---

### Post by astyanax on 2006-03-15
Yes you can.  That's why I said backup first.  When X boots you out, you can log back in at the command line and copy the backup over:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

or you can simply open up a text editor like nano and fix your changes:
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Ctrl + O --> Saves
Ctrl + X --> exits the editor

Then you can restart gnome:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

```

---

### Post by astyanax on 2006-03-15
BTW, HorizSync and VertRefresh are specific to your monitor.  X will detect these for you when you run the configuration and will put in the settings that it finds are suitable.  Unless you are ABSOLUTELY positive of these settings for your monitor, do NOT change the settings that X detects.  It could permanently damage your monitor.

---

### Post by njzillest on 2006-03-15
i didnt back up because i read your first post first.. then after i changed it i came back and read the second post... 



well im reinstalling ubuntu now..



it was working yesterday, untill i downloaeded and used easyubuntu (the forums were down and i couldnt get automatix)



well thanks alot for the help mate

---

### Post by astyanax on 2006-03-15
You didn't have to reinstall.  If you remember what changes you made to xorg.conf, then you could load a text editor and change them back.

---

### Post by Zentropic on 2006-03-15
Configuring X for an optimum display is notoriously difficult. There are a dozen factors that make it a raging pain in the a** to get it just so, if you aren't lucky enough to have the auto-generated script nail it the first time.

Rather than give you a list of things to try, I will follow the adage, "give a man a fish, feed him tonight. teach him to fish, feed him for a lifetime".

I suggest then, to familiarize yourself with these things.

1. The Xorg. conf file

2. What the timings are all about ( HorizSync and VertRefresh )

3. Related to the above, the subject of Modelines

4. Issues surrounding your graphics card, its chipset, and if you have DVI, all about TDMS and the joys of DVI bandwidth

5. Possibility of driver bugs ( like the Nvidia bug that causes it to report the wrong values to X for certain, critical values ). You have an ATI card, but this thread will enlighten you to all the crap that can go wrong and has some useful information anyhow. [Driver thread]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=47376")

If you search google, forums, etc. on the aobve topics, you will learn a good deal. And if you are really lucky, you may get a decent resolution going.

Good luck.

---

### Post by njzillest on 2006-03-15
i wouldnt beable too 


i was stuck on a cui demanding my login.

when i log in it gives me a terminal (as the window) and no command worked


i treid everycommand i know. there was no way i could go back to the gnome desktop


plus the reinstallation takes 15 minutes (tops) its allready done

updating with automatix takes 15-20 minutes

customizing destkop takes 5 minutes

mmm in the mean time ill just play around with my unix shell \\:D/    :-D

---

