---
title: "9.10 32bit vs 64 bit."
date: 2009-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Romanrp on 2009-10-29
Hi,i have 4 GBs or RAM.would I benefit form using the 64bit more than the 32 bit?Which one should I got for?
I have an intel core 2 duo processor with 64 bit capabilities.

---

### Post by fluffman86 on 2009-10-29
Definitely get the 64 bit.  Some people will tell you that there's not as much software, but you can always force a 32bit program to install on 64bit ubuntu.  But that's rare that it's even necessary.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2009-10-29
AFAIK Ubuntu 32 bit only "sees" 3.5 GB of your 4 GB...
Ubuntu 64bit has grown up,no more issues with flash ,e.g. ...
Take the 64 bit edition !

---

### Post by Romanrp on 2009-10-29
Ok,thanks I will. Yay for 64 Bit!

---

### Post by ldjuda on 2009-10-29
I also have an intel core 2 duo processor with 64 bit capabilities but only 2GB of memory.  Should I go for 32 or 64?

---

### Post by realzippy on 2009-10-29
> **ldjuda said:**
> I also have an intel core 2 duo processor with 64 bit capabilities but only 2GB of memory.  Should I go for 32 or 64?


have a look here:

[http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks](http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks)

---

### Post by fluffman86 on 2009-10-29
ldjuda: get the 64bit.  It's faster for me, but then again, that could just be me. :)

---

### Post by ldjuda on 2009-10-29
> **realzippy said:**
> have a look here:

[http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks](http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks)

Thanks! Was just wondering if memory was an issue for the 64 bit due to having 2 gigs of RAM.

> **fluffman86 said:**
> ldjuda: get the 64bit.  It's faster for me, but then again, that could just be me. :)

I already have it installed :D

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-10-29
> **ldjuda said:**
> I also have an intel core 2 duo processor with 64 bit capabilities but only 2GB of memory.  Should I go for 32 or 64?

 Yes, use 64-bit. I ran the same setup (2GB RAM, Core 2 Duo) for quite awhile.

---

### Post by suburbandude on 2009-11-07
I only have 1GB of RAM but I'm running the 64 bit edition. It works fine.

---

### Post by ShadowTek on 2009-11-07
I ran every 64-bit Ubuntu over the past year, and there are enough occasional compatibility issues that it just isn't worth it to me. Yes, 64-bit works fine for the vast majority of everything you need, but when you finally run into a brick wall of incompatibility, you have to ask yourself, "Is it really worth it?"

I'm using 32-bit now, and that's where I plan to stay. I might give 64-bit another go in about 5 or 10 years, but I'm just tired of foolin with it for now; I just want all my programs to work like they should.

The only reason I'd recommend 64-bit is if you have a computer that is dedicated to engaging in high performance tasks, where 64-bit efficiency would actually be put to regular, noticeable use. Even then, I'd suggest having a 32-bit OS along side, so you'll be able to use that occasional program that reacts to a 64-bit OS by giving it the finger.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-11-07
I run 64-bit on an AMD 3600+ with 512Mb ram, I haven't run into anything I need that won't install. It seems to run the same with either 32-bit or 64-bit.

---

### Post by eshwar_andhavarapu on 2009-11-08
I am planning to use 64-bit karmic once my new laptop arrives. From what I see on most forums, you have nothing to lose they say. Well for the average user. The only complains I've noted are individual users with their specific requirements are left out sometimes. Otherwise, the general message is go for it if you can. Besides, apparently there's a 32-bit wrapper for 32-bit applications to run on 64-bit. So nothing to lose i'd say?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-11-08
Go 64-bit. The majority of people don't have any trouble with it.

---

