---
title: "10.10 will not boot"
date: 2010-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-11-08
I have repeatedly tried to upgrade 10.4 to 10.4, downloads and via ISO disc but I get a new boot screen after the 2.6.35.22 version shows up.  I get a black screen asking for my log  in name and password, which I enter but it does not go to the desktop like it always did before. I am lost as to what to do after I enter my password, I don't know what command to use.

also why is it doing this? why won't it go to my desktop like the dozen other ubuntu versions did?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-11-08
Hi and welcome to the forums :-)

What graphics card do you have installed?

---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-11-08
nvidia, don't know the # of it, --in the past versions the desktop would open and I would install the proprietary drivers for it to get the nvidia drivers to work properly. 

uninstalling 10.10 and then reinstalling 10.4,  new 10.4 works fine. 
the upgrade online did this, as did the CD version.

this seems like there is a problem prior to nvidia

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-11-08
I have Nvidia and had to do this. I also had to do this with 10.04.

On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader.
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode)

After I installed nvidia driver (default from pop up) then it has worked without issue.
gksudo nvidia-settings
Or it should be in System>administration>Hardware drivers.

---

