---
title: "My Modem wont work!"
date: 2007-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mpc350 on 2007-12-28
I have an external USB modem.  The computer will talk to it, and I can get it to dial out and everything, but still no connection.  I have a netzero account if that makes a difference.  I am using Gnome PPP to    connect, and it says in the connection log that it cannot access the chap-secrets or pap-secrets files because of privileges.  I have tried (in my estimation) everything.  Please help.  Here is my dial up connection log:

Thanks
Matt

/home/bill/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port.
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATM1L1DT426-6070
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATM1L1DT426-6070
WvDial Modem<*1>: CONNECT 50666 V44
WvDial<*1>: Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
WvDial Modem<*1>: UQKT2 an3.dca17.da.uu.net
WvDial Modem<*1>: Login: 
WvDial<*1>: Looks like a login prompt.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: [email]wt339@netzero.com[/email]
WvDial Modem<*1>: [email]wt339@netzero.com[/email]
WvDial Modem<*1>: Password: 
WvDial<*1>: Looks like a password prompt.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: (password)
WvDial<Notice>: Don't know what to do!  Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
WvDial<Notice>: Starting pppd at Fri Dec 28 15:54:18 2007
WvDial<Err>: Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
WvDial<Err>: --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
WvDial<Err>: Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
WvDial<Err>: --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
WvDial<Notice>: Pid of pppd: 8557
WvDial<*1>: Using interface ppp0
WvDial<*1>: Disconnecting at Fri Dec 28 15:54:49 2007
WvDial<*1>: The PPP daemon has died: A modem hung up the phone (exit code = 16)
WvDial<*1>: man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
WvDial<Notice>: Try again and look into /var/log/messages and the wvdial and pppd man pages for more information.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-28
What's the output of this?:
```
ls -l /etc/ppp
```
I'm not certain, but it's possible that this could be fixed by changing the settings on the files that it wasn't able to access.

---

### Post by mpc350 on 2007-12-29
The contents of my ppp file:

I need to know how to change my permissions to the non-root user.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-29
The permissions are set correctly. I just read up a little on this, and it looks like you need to configure pap-secrets with your dial-up account's password. You can edit it by typing this in a terminal:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
```
At the very end of this file, you'll see a line like this:
```
#    *            password
```
Remove the "#" sign, and replace "password" with your password (note: this is for your *dial-up* password, do not put your system password here). 

I don't use dial-up myself, so I don't know if this will work, and there may be an easier way. Based on what I just read, though, I think this has a pretty good shot at working.

---

