---
title: "12.10 Minimal Install - Target hardware (?)"
date: 2012-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-10-28
Hiya all

I'm messing around with the minimal installation of 12.10, and the first time I ran it, I got a weird option that I haven't been able to get again.

It was explaining something about hardware drivers to include, whether to include all the drivers it could to ensure the OS boots successfully, or just include targeted drivers for that particular system (which, if it didn't pick up a required driver, might cause the OS not to boot).

Any ideas on how to make that option appear? And what that option is actually called, since keywords in my above description don't return much on google....

Cheers

Ramo

---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-10-29
Bump

---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-10-30
they see me bumpin. I'm pretty confident I didn't imagine it....

---

### Post by Rexilion on 2012-10-30
Not a big a deal if your system just works.

The question is about whether if to include all hardware drivers in your initrd or just the ones necessary to boot your system.

Including only the necessary drivers is better for space and (maybe) boot time. But I think it's probably possible that it forgets (i.e. doesn't detect certain hardware/driver combinations) some drivers. So there is an option to include everything to make sure that your system will boot.

IF you go minimal, then just pick an option to make your system boot. Once your system is running, just rebuild a kernel with the required configuration options and without an initrd. That is how I did it. It gave me a 3,3 MB kernel :)

---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-10-30
Yeah that's the one I'm talking about. But that option doesn't appear anymore. I saw it the first time I ran the installer, but not again since. I was wondering how to actually make it appear.

Cheers

Ramo

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-10-30
I think it's "Expert Command Line Install" option to get to that screen.

---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-10-31
Looks like you might be right. I wasn't sure it was that (or the other expert option) because I didn't think there were THAT many other options as well. Ah well, this will do anyway. Cheers

---

### Post by Rexilion on 2012-10-31
Maybe you activated a low debconf priority?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/installation-guide/i386/boot-parms.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/installation-guide/i386/boot-parms.html)

Look at 'debconf/priority (priority)'

---

