---
title: "9.10 Broadcom WIFI drivers help"
date: 2010-01-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kingkurry on 2010-01-13
Ubuntu seems to think my device is disabled. The switch is on and the blue light next to the switch is also on. I read up on this on other threads, but the solution involved using the cd. I had to install from windows using the iso and alcohol 120 because my cddrive is totally dead. Help?

---

### Post by bkratz on 2010-01-13
> **kingkurry said:**
> Ubuntu seems to think my device is disabled. The switch is on and the blue light next to the switch is also on. I read up on this on other threads, but the solution involved using the cd. I had to install from windows using the iso and alcohol 120 because my cddrive is totally dead. Help?

It really depends on which Broadcom device you have.
You can find out from 
lspci  (LSPCI) in the terminal and probably find a solution here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1368699](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1368699)

If not post the results of the command here
terminal is at
Applications>>Accessories>>terminal

---

### Post by ram2500 on 2010-01-13
Broadcom drivers worked well when I booted an Ubuntu flash drive on my Dell laptop at work, but every time I restarted the computer, I had to "activate" the driver every time. However, I have an HP laptop that I bought not too long ago, and the wireless worked out-of-the-box. Anyways, since I occasionally use the Dell laptop w/ the Broadcom driver that needs to be "reactivated" every time I turn the laptop off, do you have this problem? It's not a major problem, even though I would love to know the fix for this.

---

### Post by AmyC on 2010-01-23
I think I stumbled, after several days trying, onto why everyone is having such problems with the Broadcom Wireless in the Dell and HP notebooks.   They have  a sneaky little motherboard dependent program called the WIRELESS ASSISTANT>    Now usually wireless assistants, like on a SOny are nothing more than an interface for connection right???  Well not so with these broadcoms.  The computer only recognizes the darn thing on boot up if the assistant TELLS IT TO.  


So I installed this little bugger of a program from the Hp website for mine, a dv6305us, using Wine, rebooted, and SHOCKER< it worked.  Days of frustration with this lifted.

Try it, you might like it.

AmyC - new Mom on the Block.

---

