---
title: "12.04. Shotwell won't start"
date: 2012-05-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Donalb on 2012-05-11
Just installed 12.04 earlier this week. (An installation from Alternate ISO, after having problms trying to installk from LiveCD onto 10.10).

After fixing some other unrelated problems I moved onto trying Shotwell. On first launch it started building the library and hung (possibly my fault, I also started Rhythmbox and started building the library there also, at the same time).

Since then it won't start.

I've done a reinstall from Synaptic. I've also removed and added it back in. I do have Gimp 2.8 installed which other people have found stopped Shotwell working in 11.10. (I don't want to go back to 2.6 so I haven't tried removing 2.8)

If I try to start in terminal I get;


cp: cannot stat `.../.shotwell/data/photo.db.bak': No such file or directory
**
ERROR:/build/buildd/shotwell-0.12.2/src/db/VersionTable.vala:18:version_table_construct: assertion failed: (_tmp3_ == SQLITE_OK)
Aborted (core dumped)

---

### Post by eric-yorba on 2012-05-14
Weird issue!  Could you double-check the permissions on your .shotwell folder (and subfolders?)  Shotwell looks like it's having an issue reading the database and the database backup.

Did you copy this Shotwell database from another machine, etc?  I'm curious how it could have gotten into this state.

---

### Post by Donalb on 2012-05-15
Thanks.

.shotwell has creation and deletion access (using nautilus). I didn't copy the database however I had just started using Shotwell on 10.10, with the older version.

I had a problem last week with the Dash (not showing files and folders) which was fixed by deleting a sql file from 11.04 (which I upgraded to very briefly, an hour only) before the install.  You think this might be something similar?

---

### Post by Donalb on 2012-05-15
You gave me an idea to try though, so I deleted the SQL database photo.db that was created in .shotwell/data when I first launched it last week. Now Shotwell has launched and is building the library database again.

---

