---
title: "10.04 Very slow to fade to Screensaver after Suspend (using NVIDIA driver)"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2010-04-29
Okay, this particular issue is driving me nuts. Now I've been using Ubuntu since 8.10 Intrepid, and every time I chose a more recent NVIDIA driver, performance only got better. Now, while performance is still good with the current NVIDIA driver on 10.04, after resuming from a suspend, everything seems to run fine.

But when the screensaver comes on, either on its own or by me locking the screen, the framerate appears to drop severely, and takes at least 30 seconds longer to fade to black and then run the screensaver. This ONLY occurs after suspend/resumes, and never occurs after a fresh boot.

Please help?

---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2010-04-29
Bump

---

### Post by FootySr on 2010-04-30
Mike do you also notice when you make a desktop pictures change it does it very slowly? I know I'm not helping. ;)

Also Floating Ubuntu screensaver isn't working for me.

---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2010-04-30
> **FootySr said:**
> Mike do you also notice when you make a desktop pictures change it does it very slowly? I know I'm not helping. ;)

Also Floating Ubuntu screensaver isn't working for me.

Nope, nothing like that. Sounds like you have a different problem than I do.

---

### Post by FootySr on 2010-04-30
> **Mike_IronFist said:**
> Nope, nothing like that. Sounds like you have a different problem than I do.

Thanks Mike, it was. I un-installed the Nvidia drivers and reinstalled and all was fine after a restart. ;)

---

