---
title: "10.04 Lucid Lynx Nvidia driver second screen in standby"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Niksko on 2010-05-01
Plenty of people seem to be having issues with the nvidia graphics drivers, so I thought I'd add my woes to the heap.

My issue is that I run two screens under twinview, but the second one doesn't work for some reason. More specifically, the Nvidia-settings tool is able to detect my second monitor, and I'm able to assign it a resolution and position and the like, and my desktop seems to extend over to where the second monitor is, but the monitor just remains in standby mode.

This happened with the drivers proprietary drivers that Nvidia tried to install (version 173 I believe) so I removed them and tried to install the 195 drivers manually, which I eventually figured out how to do (by blacklisting the nouveau module amongst other things). This still didn't fix things, and gave me the same issue.

(As an aside, where can I find the nvidia-glx-195 and nvidia-modaliases-195 packages, as they seem to have disappeared from the LP-PPA-nvidia-vdpau repository where they apparently used to be?)

The strange part though, is that my second screen works fine if I don't install any nvidia drivers, and just use the System->Preferences->Monitors applet. The second screen comes out of standby and works nicely.

One other little thing I've noticed that may have something to do with it, is that if I switch the outputs that the monitors are connected to, the other monitor will work. The output whose monitor doesn't work is always the one that has the DVI->VGA converter. Could this have something to do with it?

Thanks for any help that anyone can offer, and sorry for the length of the post

Regards

-Nik

---

### Post by tim.rittman on 2010-05-11
Hi Nik,

I have the same problem using an 8600GTS card. I can't find any solutions for it either. I have the opposite issue to you in that the monitor with the DVI->VGA adaptor always works, whereas the DVI is the one that doesn't!?! I can only get both monitors working with the 173 drivers, either downloaded and installed from the nvidia website or from the repositories. It would be great to have the lastest drivers working for compiz, flash and other graphics based bits and pieces.

I previously had both monitors working with 180 drivers in Jaunty which gave significantly better performance, but I am not able to install these drivers in lucid. You can't install them via jockey or the repositories, and they won't compile properly from the nvidia site.

Any thoughts welcome!

Regards,

Tim

---

### Post by johnnyis42 on 2010-05-30
I arrived at this same problem after updating a system that I had been running since 8.10 with drivers from Nvidia's site.  The 10.04 upgrade broke them (these were the 185) and the 195 betas wouldn't install, failing on the compiler checks.

In my laziness I decided to simply log in to recovery console with safe graphics mode, set up the 185 restricted drivers and be done with it.  Unfortunately I found out that in doing this I began to have a 33% chance that my machine would come out of standby, and if it did then I was almost guaranteed that X would crash, gdm would restart and the whole point of using standby was gone when I had to log in again.

No problem, just shut down the machine instead of using standby.... except I have about a 33% chance that my machine will actually load gdm after boot, and the other 67% of the time the box hangs at the splash screen (which is in low graphics mode too) with the X process stuck at 100% of a CPU core and the keyboard and mouse are completely unresponsive.  Before the 2.6.32-22 kernel upgrade I could ssh in, restart gdm via upstart, and everything would be fine.

Last weekend I figured I'd attack that problem, ended up getting the machine to a state where X would instantly crash when loading the nvidia-xconfig generated xorg.conf (which is when I discovered the genius of the new default behavior of 10.04 having a fail-safe default when no xorg.conf is present).  For other reasons related to a bad SATA cable, I had already begin tackling this issue with a fresh install of 10.04 desktop.

Now, after a week with the same hardware (except the new hard drive and sata cable) I am back to square one where I have 100% unreliable behavior when resuming from standby, and I have a 33% chance of successfully loading the nvidia 185 restricted driver, except now the gdm restart trick doesn't work.

It seems to always start with this:

kernel: [  110.599980] BUG: soft lockup - CPU#0 stuck for 61s! [Xorg:1476]

give or take a few seconds and +/- a couple pid values, this is where kernel debugging info starts spewing until I hit reset or power down, and try it all over again.  Fortunately I know pretty quickly, when the CPU fan spin slows, that gdm is starting so if I don't hear that I can be pretty confident in hitting reset, so the faster boot times in lucid help out.

I have heard the 185 driver isn't supported in X Server 1.7.6, which seems to be what I am experiencing, however when I was able to get the 195 driver to work on my previous install, the second monitor never worked (attempting that also lead to the problem where X would fail to load and thus gdm would never start).

My current plan is just to live with it until something is released to address the issue because dual monitors really should be a simple thing to support, and I'm kinda tired of dealing with these issues.

EDIT: AMD Phenom(tm) II X4 940 GA-MA790GP (onboard ati video disabled);
     GeForce 9600gt

---

### Post by darthpenguin on 2010-07-03
I am having a similar problem. I have 2 PCIe video cards and 2 displays. nvidia-settings only detects 1 output. How did you get yours to at least see your second screen? The setup works fine on Windows' side of things.

---

