---
title: "11.04 problems compiling CERN root X11lib.a not found"
date: 2011-06-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hasana on 2011-06-24
Hello,
I have downloaded the CERN root package onto my Lenovo S10-2 netbook runnning Ubuntu 11.04. I am having problems trying to run the configure command. 

I download the libX11-dev package, but the configure command complained it could not find the libX11.a library. I can see it under /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libX11.a (I had to run the updatedb command to have it appear as a result of locate libX11.a). 

I then thought maybe I need to make a soft-link to /usr/lib and sure enough the configure succeeded. But, this is plain weird as on my Acer travelmate I can run the configure and it works fine with the libX11.a only under the /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu directory.

Does anyone know why this should be the case? 

Is there some path that I need to set (I'm not sure which one it should be)? 

I have noticed other strange errors when trying to install some python s/w that installs fine on my acer but not on my lenovo which I will try to investigate and post about.

Many thanks for your help and I hope you have a peaceful weekend.
adil

---

### Post by phufax on 2011-06-29
I just tried this too on my acer aspire one and found the same error. I used the svn checkout to grab the latest root directories but running ./configure fails to find the libX11 library, even though it's installed (actually libX11-6 or something). Weirdly I don't see a '.a' file in the directory you mention, just '.so' libraries which I think is fine.

If you post this on 'root talk' forums you might get a quicker useful response. I'll see if I can solve this myself and post the solution here. If you figure it out first could you post up the answer?

thanks

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2011-06-29
Install xorg-dev, it will give you everything you need to compile X-related stuff.

---

