---
title: "12.04 problem with flash videos playing fast and sound problems"
date: 2012-06-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by defaria on 2012-06-04
Since upgrading to 12.04 many Flash (youtube, etc.) videos either play fast or have distorted sound. I've found I can run pavcontrol and under Configuration switch the Built-In audio from Ananlog Surround 5.1 Output + Analog Stereo input to anything else, which corrects the problem and then I can switch it back. But the problem keeps coming back. How do I fix it for good?

---

### Post by Automat2 on 2012-06-04
I found a problem with Flash too. After the Precise upgrade, it changed colours to blue, like a negative picture.

Now, Flash crashes too many times, probably more than 9 over 10 times I click on a video link. Sometimes, it corrects if I click on "Reload" on Firefox, but sometimes I have to let go and forget that I wanted to watch a Youtube video, or similar.

I have installed the latest Flash-Aid stable 64bits.

:-(

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-06-04
Please don't hijack my thread. You're problem is a very different problem than mine. I have no blue smurfs in my flash videos - I have sound problems.

Search for "flash video blue" or try [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1949137](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1949137) or something.

---

### Post by Automat2 on 2012-06-04
Well, I looked for "something else" in the forums and found the fix.

That was not the problem I have at the moment, either.

:lolflag:

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-06-04
I'm confused. You said "it changed colours to blue" didn't you? Now you say you don't have this problem. Which is it?

In any event, your problem is not like my problem. Please start your own thread.

---

### Post by niko7865 on 2012-06-06
I have this same problem too, on 32bit and 64bit installs. (A laptop and a desktop) Bug exists on Mint also.

---

### Post by QuintS on 2012-06-08
Same problem. Sound and movie playing at 1.5 times normal speed. I have temporarily solved the problem by opening a terminal and running:
```
pulseaudio --kill && pulseaudio -D
```
to restart the Pulseaudio deamon, but this works just for a while and than the sound and video starts acting up again.

Sound is distorted in flash media on websites (Opened with Chrome) and sometimes at the beginning of movies (played with VLC), but after a few seconds the movies in VLC rectify itself.

Maybe related: Movies from sites are sometimes not able to be played at fullscreen. Youtube and other movies have a button to go fullscreen, but movie remains as is in browser window.

Player on soundcloud.com also suffers from same issue.

Have the same issue on three PC's running Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit. Hopefully someone has a resolution.

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-06-08
I open up the pavucontrol and then on the Configuration tab, change the Built-in Audio to something other than what it is (mine's usually at AnalogSurround 5.1 Output + Analog Stereo Input) to something else then back. Immediately when changed to something else it's fixed. But eventually it breaks again.

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-06-13
Bump!

Anybody got a solution?

---

### Post by akshayas1986 on 2012-07-02
Same issue here as well. Youtube plays very fast. In fact, even online audio playback is fast (Google music plays way too fast). I am seeing this for the first time with 12.04

---

### Post by jmfal on 2012-07-02
You maY need to add the Medibuntu repo and install
1.libavcodec-extra-53
2.libavutility-extra-51

[http://www.unixmen.com/medibuntu-repositories-available-for-ubuntu-12-04-lts-precise-pangolin-ppa/](http://www.unixmen.com/medibuntu-repositories-available-for-ubuntu-12-04-lts-precise-pangolin-ppa/)

---

### Post by grammaticus on 2012-07-02
I'm experiencing the same problem - flash videos from YouTube play extremely fast (I'd guess double speed, for whatever that's worth) in both Chrome and Firefox.  Prior to my last system update (about five minutes ago), the only flash videos I was experiencing problems with was Amazon Instant Video - the progress bar said that the video was playing (i.e. the timer was counting up), but the video didn't appear.  This problem only existed in Chrome.

I already have the mediabuntu repo installed and I ran the two updates listed above (libavutil and libavcodec).  They were already the latest version.

I only noticed the Amazon problem yesterday or the day before (not sure which), but prior to that YouTube was working fine.

---

### Post by Thucydides411 on 2012-07-03
I have the same problem. It typically begins after 30-60 minutes after booting up. Once the problem begins, it affects all Flash videos, not just those in any particular website or browser. It affects videos in Chrome, in Flash, even when playing videos on my hard drive with Totem. I've filed a bug report for this:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flashplugin-nonfree/+bug/1020196](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flashplugin-nonfree/+bug/1020196)

I'd appreciate it if others affected by this bug would join. There might be some motion on the bug then.

---

### Post by insert_name_here on 2012-07-03
I have the same issue. I'm pretty sure the issue started around the time that my kernel updated (via apt, of course) from 3.20.0.25 to 3.20.0.26.

I can confirm that the problem also exists with using Spotify on Wine, in addition to Youtube.

I am running a pretty stock 12.04 32bit. My laptop is a Lenovo X220 with a Conexant CX20590 soundcard which, I believe, is integrated into my intel chipset (Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family).

I'll add to that bug report when I get back from work tonight.

---

### Post by jaggerestep on 2012-07-04
I too am having this issue. After a period of time, all flash videos become very fast and choppy. This also effects my Wine games, sounds become delayed and/or choppy.

Ubuntu 12.04 64-bit
3.2.0-26-generic kernel
Intel Pentium D 2.8Ghz
Dell E520 motherboard, built-in soundcard
NVidia GT220

Please let me know if there's any more information you need and how to get it.

---

### Post by Warthaug on 2012-07-04
I too am having this issue - any flash source with audio or video gets screwed up.  Youtube, and several news streams play at 2X and/or get choppy a few minutes into play.  On-line radio stations simply get distorted and choppy.  I also seem to have delays in keyboard function at the same time as the choppyness.

I hope this gets fixed...

---

### Post by jmfal on 2012-07-04
Ive heard alot of complaints about youtube not working right, I just watched  a music video there and I have no problems.

I use firefox so I don't know about any of the option for the others
For Firefox try this:

Edit>>> preferences>> in window click on applications tab>>
1. For MP3  use VLC
2. For MPEG-3 Video use Quicktime Plugin
3. MPEG video use VLC
4. OGG Audio usr VLC
5.Ogg multimedia and Ogg video use VLC
6.Quick Time video use the quick time plugin
7 Shockwave Flash and SPL use shock wave flash in firefox
8. WAV audio use VLC
9.webM  use VLC
10.Windows Media audio/video, WM, and WVX use Win Media Player Plugin
Open the Tool menu>>>Add-ons>>> and enable the players, you can also get the addons right there if you need to.

This is what works for me you might need to play around and change players.

Tools>> Manage

---

### Post by insert_name_here on 2012-07-04
Wrt to Spotify/Wine, this is the workaround I found.

1. Close Banshee or any other app that's playing music.
2. Open Wine config -> Audio, switch around to a different output. Conexant Analog is what worked for me, but that's sound card-specific, obvi.
3. Start Spotify

---

### Post by grammaticus on 2012-07-05
Just booted into an old Kernel (3.2.0-24) and have the same problem.

I also cannot play videos stored on my local system, either with 3.2.0-24 or 3.2.0-26.

---

### Post by Warthaug on 2012-07-06
Ubuntu updated itself today, including part of the xorg system.  This seems to have resolved some of the flash issues - at least one of my news broadcasts and youtube is back to normal...except for one thing.  I have dual-monitors, and now if I try to go full-screen the image gets split across the two monitors, with the right-half missing...

...out of the frying pan, into the fire.

Bryan

---

### Post by quazi on 2012-07-07
I tried reinstalling 12.04 (with a clean wipe of the home directory) to see if that would fix the issue.

It did not; I have the same problem running a 64-bit Ubuntu 12.04. 

Pulseaudio stutters for music played online and gets worse as time goes on.

EDIT: I've been able to fix my problem by disabling google's native flash and just using the one that came with restricted-extras. I did this by entering chrome://plugins/ in the omnibar and disabling Shockwave Flash 11.3 r31.

---

### Post by b3d on 2012-07-12
The latest update does appear to fix the problem. I updated as of today, July 12th, did a restart, and videos in chrome are now playing fine. At least for the moment.

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-07-12
What update and from whom? Because with Chrome you're running Google's own flash version. Try going to about:plugins, click on details and tell me which flash plugins you have enabled and their version numbers.

---

### Post by Hack.The.Pow. on 2012-07-12
I have the same problem as the OP.

The issue is only with chrome.  Flash works with firefox and opera fine.  

In chrome's chrome://plugins I have two entries for flash(which is expected).  The one that is chrome's version(located at /opt/google/chrome/PepperFlash/libpepflashplayer.so) is version 11.3.31.115.  When this one is enabled video's essentially fast forward and the audio is super distorted. Video's also do not go full screen. 

When the chrome version is disabled the plugin that is activated is located at /usr/lib/flashplugin-installer/libflashplayer.so.  This version is 11.2 r202.  When this one is enabled video is smooth and goes full screen.  Audio however has small little "blips" of gaps.  So every half second or so there will be a quick skip in audio.  While not as bad as the other plugin it is still very annoying.

Chrome is at version 20.0.1132.57.  I know versions over 20 have been having problems due to the new pepper engine.  

I am running ubuntu 12.04 64 bit.

Does anybody have any suggestions?

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-07-13
I don't have any suggestions but I can vouch for your experience. the PepperFlash thing, from what I understand, is again Google doing the right thing because damn Adobe doesn't want to support Linux and 64bit. Unfortunately PepperFlash is not really ready for prime time. It constantly talks to my webcam and slows everything down on the system.

I had downloaded another flash player that I have at /usr/lib/libflashplayer64.11.2.202.236.new.so (crazy name I made up as I was working this out). Bottom line is that it is 11.2.r202 like yours and behaves better.

Google needs to improve on PepperFlash. My question is I have PepperFlash disabled. If Google updates it's PepperFlash player will it let me know that I should try it out?

---

### Post by Hack.The.Pow. on 2012-07-13
> **defaria said:**
> I don't have any suggestions but I can vouch for your experience. the PepperFlash thing, from what I understand, is again Google doing the right thing because damn Adobe doesn't want to support Linux and 64bit. Unfortunately PepperFlash is not really ready for prime time. It constantly talks to my webcam and slows everything down on the system.

I had downloaded another flash player that I have at /usr/lib/libflashplayer64.11.2.202.236.new.so (crazy name I made up as I was working this out). Bottom line is that it is 11.2.r202 like yours and behaves better.

Google needs to improve on PepperFlash. My question is I have PepperFlash disabled. If Google updates it's PepperFlash player will it let me know that I should try it out?

I doubt that it will alert you to the new flash changes.  I just had a chrome update but it didnt't do anything nor did it tell me of any special things about the update.

Do you experience the same problems I do with that version of flash with chrome?

---

### Post by b3d on 2012-07-13
> **b3d said:**
> The latest update does appear to fix the problem. I updated as of today, July 12th, did a restart, and videos in chrome are now playing fine. At least for the moment.

I take it back. It did not fix the problem. It lessened it, but it isn't fixed. It's still just randomly doing this fast video thing.

I submitted a problem to the Chrome developers.

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-07-13
You might try updating your nvidia driver. I'm assuming you have an nvidia card. There's been lots of problems with it and I think a new driver got updated recently.

---

### Post by SycloneMedia on 2012-07-13
> **Warthaug said:**
> Ubuntu updated itself today, including part of the xorg system.  This seems to have resolved some of the flash issues - at least one of my news broadcasts and youtube is back to normal...except for one thing.  I have dual-monitors, and now if I try to go full-screen the image gets split across the two monitors, with the right-half missing...

...out of the frying pan, into the fire.

Bryan

I'm having that same problem with the split/missing half, full screen across dual monitors.

EDIT: Found the solution after googling around...
In Google Chrome, type "about:plugins" into the address bar... then click the "Details" link on the top right... then find the Flash section and click "Disable" ONLY on the pepperflash plugin, but leave the other one (libflashplayer.so) enabled.

This just fixed it for me.

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-07-13
What exact version of the flashplayer library are you using. We've described how to find that with Chrome. Are you using Chrome?

---

### Post by SycloneMedia on 2012-07-13
> **defaria said:**
> What exact version of the flashplayer library are you using. We've described how to find that with Chrome. Are you using Chrome?

I don't know if you were responding to me or the original post? If me, I solved the one issue in my post above.

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-07-13
Sorry, I didn't see your edit saying you solved your problem.

---

### Post by Hack.The.Pow. on 2012-07-16
> **defaria said:**
> You might try updating your nvidia driver. I'm assuming you have an nvidia card. There's been lots of problems with it and I think a new driver got updated recently.

Good guess.  I updated the drivers and everything worked.  Using PepperFlash now.

> **b3d said:**
> I take it back. It did not fix the problem. It lessened it, but it isn't fixed. It's still just randomly doing this fast video thing.

I submitted a problem to the Chrome developers.

If you have a nvidia card as well try updating your drivers.

Edit: Nevermind problems not fully fixed.  PepperFlash no longer fast forwards but it still can't go fullscreen and occasionally has skips in the video.  Other plugin seems to be working good now though.

---

### Post by z3uSS on 2012-07-16
hy guys ... same problem here ubuntu 12.04 and latest updates done ... on chrome videos are on fast forward ... on firefox on slow forward. 
i tried the + Disable trick in chrome .... not working ... if i let Shockwave Flash 11.3 r31 version you tube videos working fine but all live streams working on slow froward... and if i let only 11.2 r202 version everithing is on slow forward ...

ps: i have optimus nvidiat set-up and bumblebee seems to be messed up since last update

any ideas guys ?

---

### Post by b3d on 2012-07-16
> **z3uSS said:**
> hy guys ... same problem here ubuntu 12.04 and latest updates done ... on chrome videos are on fast forward ... on firefox on slow forward. 
i tried the + Disable trick in chrome .... not working ... if i let Shockwave Flash 11.3 r31 version you tube videos working fine but all live streams working on slow froward... and if i let only 11.2 r202 version everithing is on slow forward ...

ps: i have optimus nvidiat set-up and bumblebee seems to be messed up since last update

any ideas guys ?

I have pretty much the same deal. I'm going to try to go back to the older (recommended) nvidia driver and reboot. I will let you know if that affects anything.

---

### Post by Warthaug on 2012-07-17
> **SycloneMedia said:**
> I'm having that same problem with the split/missing half, full screen across dual monitors.

EDIT: Found the solution after googling around...
In Google Chrome, type "about:plugins" into the address bar... then click the "Details" link on the top right... then find the Flash section and click "Disable" ONLY on the pepperflash plugin, but leave the other one (libflashplayer.so) enabled.

This just fixed it for me.

Testing now, and it appears to have fixed the issue, although I still get the occasional skipping of the audio track.

Bryan

---

### Post by pnaughton on 2012-08-29
Same problem. Google music, youtube, vimeo etc all either play too fast or glitch frequently. I have only noticed this on the upgrade to 12.04, but have noticed it on 3 out of 3 machines. Anyone have a solution?

---

### Post by pnaughton on 2012-08-29
(Sorry for the repeat, couldn't figure out how to delete) Same problem. Google music, youtube, vimeo etc all either play too fast or glitch frequently. I have only noticed this on the upgrade to 12.04, but have noticed it on 3 out of 3 machines. Anyone have a solution?

---

### Post by rajeshkallur on 2012-09-11
PROBLEM FIXED for me! 
I had recently installed ubuntu 12.04, installed chrome. saw videos on youtube no problem. then for some reason i encountered same issues. with both flash 11.2 and 11.3 (slow and fast responses respectively). 
For me the solution was in fixing my NVIDIA DRIVER.
For some reason ubuntu additional driver didnt give me the option to update my NVIDIA driver to the latest one. I was offered version 173 whereas when I checked NVIDIA website it is 304.43. here are the steps i followed:

1. Download latest NVIDIA DRIVER for your card from NVIDIA website
2. you will have to run this file (.run) using command terminal
3. You will be asked to exit X-server. so follow the steps given here: [http://neelmohile.wordpress.com/2011/11/02/how-to-manually-install-latest-nvidia-drivers-on-ubuntu-oneiric-11-10/](http://neelmohile.wordpress.com/2011/11/02/how-to-manually-install-latest-nvidia-drivers-on-ubuntu-oneiric-11-10/)

P.S.: sometimes exitting X-server from virtual console does not work (for me it didnt). So i exit X-server from my command terminal (which means after i enter virtual console to install driver I have no ubutu x-server to bacl to. NO problem, just hard-boot again.). Everything works fine for me now.
Also for newbies like me : entering and exiting virtual console info: [http://lgjsheron.wordpress.com/2010/03/16/virtual-console-terminals-in-ubuntu/](http://lgjsheron.wordpress.com/2010/03/16/virtual-console-terminals-in-ubuntu/)

---

### Post by MihailoJoksimovic on 2012-09-18
Same problem here (and it's really frustrating)

All videos (both chrome & firefox) go 2x fast, and when they don't - sound is completely unsynced from the video.

My configuration:

Kernel: 3.2.0-30-generic
OS: Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS
MB: LGA1155 B75, PCIe/DDR3/SATA3/GLAN/7.1
CPU: CPU LGA1155 Intel® Core™ i5-3450, 3.10GHz/6MB BOX 22nm
RAM: DDR3 8GB
Graphics: AMD Radeon 7770 1GB/DDR5/DVI/HDMI/DP/128bit

---

### Post by mickymills on 2012-09-25
My Compaq Presario using Ubuntu 12.04 displays the same problem (fast video in flash) if I have been using dual monitors utilising HDMI out, and disconnect the HDMI cable without changing back from '*HDMI RS880*' to '*Speakers - Built in audio*' under *Sound Settings*.

Changing the setting immediately rectifies the problem without restarting firefox (or Chromium). 

Given that there has been long standing problems with HDMI audio switching in Ubuntu, I thought it could be a valuable starting block to mention for anyone debugging the problem.
:popcorn:

---

### Post by marctastic on 2012-09-27
had the same problem on chrome looks like I had 2 flash player plugins installed. Just disable version 11.3 pepperflash by typing in browser window--> chrome://plugins/ then go to details upper right. you should see the plugin now and disable it. There you have it :)

---

### Post by billir on 2012-10-27
Hi - still have the problem but just tried
pulseaudio --kill
It fix the problem - don't know if it will stay fixed - probably not but easy to run.

---

### Post by vhof on 2012-11-06
> **billir said:**
> Hi - still have the problem but just tried
pulseaudio --kill
It fix the problem - don't know if it will stay fixed - probably not but easy to run.

Thanks for this tip, first i tried to use FIREFOX and it worked normally there. But then I tried the tip,
AND IT WORKED :D

---

### Post by esoniat on 2013-02-09
Chromium-browser and firefox played flash at high speed.

cd; rm -rf .pulse* is all that works for me.

lightspark did not work very well at all.

I only had one version of adobe so finding the version that works was not an option.

Killing and restarting pulseaudio did nothing.

---

### Post by MykalAnderson on 2013-03-24
> **QuintS said:**
> Same problem. Sound and movie playing at 1.5 times normal speed. I have temporarily solved the problem by opening a terminal and running:
```
pulseaudio --kill && pulseaudio -D
```
to restart the Pulseaudio deamon, but this works just for a while and than the sound and video starts acting up again.

Sound is distorted in flash media on websites (Opened with Chrome) and sometimes at the beginning of movies (played with VLC), but after a few seconds the movies in VLC rectify itself.

Maybe related: Movies from sites are sometimes not able to be played at fullscreen. Youtube and other movies have a button to go fullscreen, but movie remains as is in browser window.

Player on soundcloud.com also suffers from same issue.

Have the same issue on three PC's running Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit. Hopefully someone has a resolution.

I can confirm the same issue, and that restart pulseaudio fixes is for a while, but it recurrs again shortly after.

---

### Post by jpules on 2013-06-01
> **SycloneMedia said:**
> I'm having that same problem with the split/missing half, full screen across dual monitors.

EDIT: Found the solution after googling around...
In Google Chrome, type "about:plugins" into the address bar... then click the "Details" link on the top right... then find the Flash section and click "Disable" ONLY on the pepperflash plugin, but leave the other one (libflashplayer.so) enabled.

This just fixed it for me.


I did a "sudo apt-get upgrade" on 13.04 and music in Google Play started playing about 50% faster (maybe?) anyway, the music sounded higher pitched.

This above fix worked for me!

---

### Post by manawyrm on 2013-06-03
The solution is relativly easy.
It occurs mostly with intel/realtek audio chips and their horribly broken driver.

anyway: open up /etc/pulse/default.pa (with root) (terminal -> gksu gedit /etc/pulse/default.pa)
Add "tsched = 0" to the Line "load-module module-udev-detect use_ucm=0"

Then just restart pulseaudio. (with your user account!)
```
pulseaudio -k
pulseaudio --start

```

This fixed the problem for me. (Linux Mint 15/Ubuntu 13.04 x64 - Chrome 27)

so long,
Tobias

---

