---
title: "12.04 - Where are my syslog messages?!"
date: 2013-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ArlieS on 2013-02-14
I am attempting to debug openvpn, which doesn't seem to want to play nicely with my employer's network.  In the course of this, I wanted to determine what messages it might have been logging. 

I found that on my 12.10 ubuntu system, it was logging up a storm, into a file named /var/log/syslog. (I'm more used to /var/log/messages.)  But on my 12.04 system, /var/log/syslog was empty - and the file was last touched Jan 31, well before the last time I rebooted. There _were_ files named /var/log/syslog.1, /var/log/syslog.2.gz, etc., and they did have contents. But the last mod dates are at least 2 weeks ago. 

I have not made any intentional changes to my syslog configuration. Until I checked, I didn't even realize that ubuntu ran something called "rsyslogd" with its own rsyslogd.conf, rather than the syslogd/syslogd.conf pair I expected.

Conclusion - some package I installed - or upgraded - broke it. Or perhaps "fixed" it to send the messages to some file I haven't yet discovered, outside of /var/log. 

Can anyone help me 
a) get syslog messages actually recorded
b) determine what tool unhelpfully disabled these messages in the first place

Thanks for any light you can shed on this mystery.

---

### Post by btindie on 2013-02-14
You can test syslog with the below command
```
logger -i -t TEST -p daemon.info "Test message"
```

On my Ubuntu 12.04.1 system it appends it to /var/log/syslog

Use ```
initctl status rsyslog
``` to check that rsyslog is running.

---

### Post by ArlieS on 2013-02-14
> **btindie said:**
> You can test syslog with the below command
```
logger -i -t TEST -p daemon.info "Test message"
```On my Ubuntu 12.04.1 system it appends it to /var/log/syslog

Use ```
initctl status rsyslog
``` to check that rsyslog is running.

initctl agrees with ps:


```
$ initctl status rsyslog
rsyslog start/running, process 702
```But nonetheless, I still have no output:

```

$ logger -i -t TEST -p daemon.info "Test message"
$ ls -l /var/log/syslog
-rw-r----- 1 messagebus adm 0 Jan 31 07:35 /var/log/syslog
$ date
Thu Feb 14 15:32:36 PST 2013

```

---

### Post by schragge on 2013-02-14
Hmm, why */var/log/syslog* is owned by [color=red]messagebus[/color]? See the LP bug #[lpbug]1059854[/lpbug].

---

### Post by ArlieS on 2013-02-14
> **schragge said:**
> Hmm, why */var/log/syslog* is owned by [COLOR=red]messagebus[/COLOR]? See the LP bug #[lpbug]1059854[/lpbug].

That looks like my bug. I found a lot of log files owned by messagebus. I made them all owned by syslog, but wimped out on modifying /etc/logrotate.d/rsyslog as suggested in the workaround.

Thank you.

---

