---
title: "9.04 won't boot anymore"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hypn0toad on 2009-04-26
okay, so i have been running 8.10 for a while and everything has been fine.  yesterday i upgraded to 9.04.  i wasn't really paying attention to the install, but everything seemed fine.  i did my final reboot and i think shut down the computer immediately and went into windows again for the rest of the day.

today i try to boot into ubuntu, and forgot to select my discreet graphics (running a lenovo T400) so it boots to a command prompt login screen.  i press ctrl alt delete and it starts rebooting, but i get impatient and hold the power button to shut it off.

fix my graphics settings in the BIOS, and now it gets stuck in a kernel fault / segfault / something with lots of error messages scrolling across the screen.  it happened right after finishing the progress bar.

i booted into recovery mode- scanned the HD, tried to repair broken packages (changed 0 packages), repaired grub and tried to repair X.  rebooted again, and now instead of having the looping error messages, i have weird graphics glitches- and still not getting into ubuntu.

i also tried the older kernel version,a nd it has the same problem.

any idea what might be causing this?  maybe i corrupted something from shutting it down poorly.  i can't even get to the text login wiht the switchable graphics enabled.

since i'm assuming its something i have done, can it be fixed with some sort of general repair?  i can burn 9.04 to a cd and try to recover with that somehow, but i'm unclear as to the process.

any help / advice would be more than welcome!

---

