---
title: "10.04 transmission Requested download is not authorized for use with this tracker"
date: 2010-08-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bilodeau on 2010-08-18
Hi all,

So I've been using Ubuntu 10.04 on my current pc for about a week now, and everything is groovy.  To help out, I have ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso loaded in Transmission, which starts every time I boot up.

Today, I booted up and got these weird error messages from Transmission with the ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso file.  The message is:

Tracker gave an error "Requested download is not authorized for use with this tracker." - Idle.

I thought that maybe something was wrong with Transmission, so I paused the torrent and then removed it.  I then reloaded it and pointed Transmission at the download directory.  Transmission verified the downloaded data and then spat out the same error message at me - "Requested download is not authorized for use with this tracker."

I then removed the torrent from Transmission, exited from Transmission cleanly, restarted Transmission, reloaded the torrent file, pointed it at the current download location, it verified the file was completely downloaded, and then got the same error message.

I have a firewall running, and it has ports 51413 and ports 6881-6999 open for both TCP and UDP connections.  These are the same settings that I had yesterday, and there was no error message spat out by Transmission yesterday.

Anyone have any ideas?  Is the right place to post this?

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-08-18
Last time I used transmission I received the same error on a file I was downloading (I don't remember what it was)  My uploading distros were fine.  Not sure why it happened.

---

### Post by Revolutionary101 on 2010-08-18
I don't think this is a problem with your computer, I have had the same error message on some of my torrents, but I can still seed them. Due to the fact that I can still seed them, I believe this is a problem with the registration of the torrent itself with the tracker.

Are you still able to seed the torrent that you get this error message for?

---

### Post by bilodeau on 2010-08-18
Thanks for the replies!

I can't seed the torrent any more.  Prior to the error message, I would get a pretty stable upload rate that would max out my connection.  Now I just get the error message and "Idle."

---

### Post by Revolutionary101 on 2010-08-18
> **bilodeau said:**
> Thanks for the replies!

I can't seed the torrent any more.  Prior to the error message, I would get a pretty stable upload rate that would max out my connection.  Now I just get the error message and "Idle."

Well that too could be something that is not caused by the error message. If there is no peers available to seed to, then your torrent will remain idle.

---

### Post by bilodeau on 2010-08-21
Okay, so I've had some problems with my network card, but I've got those sorted out.  I ran a check on whether or not my cable modem provider did any traffic shaping on bit torrent, and that came up negative.  So now I am seeding the Ubuntu 10.04 image and some other torrents, and I _still_ get the error message:

"Requested download is not authorized for use with this tracker."

The trackers I connect to are:

torrent.ubuntu.com:6969
ipv6.torrent.ubuntu.com:6969

This error message _only_ applies to the Ubuntu torrent and comes from the torrent.ubuntu.com:6969 tracker.  My other torrents are fine and have maxed out my upload rate.

So, what happened?  Why did things just flake out a couple of days ago?

I'm going to poke around and see if I can find someone to email on the Ubuntu side of things and start talking to them.  I'll post whatever results I get to this thread.

---

### Post by bilodeau on 2010-08-21
Okay, I'm a numbskull.

Apparently, there is a new version of ubuntu-10.04, version 10.04.1, that has been released.  If you go to the release website at:

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/)

you will find that there are only 10.04.1 versions available for download / torrent / jigdo access, etcetera on anything other than a netbook.

So, this problem is resolved.

---

### Post by vamped on 2010-08-21
> **bilodeau said:**
> Okay, I'm a numbskull.

Not at all. Thanks for finding a solution! I'm sure many of us were having the same problem (I know I was) and didn't think to look at the new download page. Now we have a resolution.

---

### Post by shannon.jacobs on 2010-08-28
Thanks for the confirmation of my deductions. Unfortunately, I have to regard it as additional evidence of the declining quality of Ubuntu.

Any URL for the real explanation? Any hope that the Ubuntu people will fix their development and especially their testing processes? Or news about possible replacements for Ubuntu? Google Chrome makes me nervous as Google moves into the evil zone... Am I going to be forced to Windows 7? (At least I managed to miss Vista completely.)

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2010-08-28
> **shannon.jacobs said:**
> Thanks for the confirmation of my deductions. Unfortunately, I have to regard it as additional evidence of the declining quality of Ubuntu.


So lets get this straight ... Canonical releases a new version so that people downloading ubuntu will get something that is fully up to date and you see this as "additional evidence of the declining quality of ubuntu".  Sheesh!

> 
Any URL for the real explanation? 
It was just explained. With a new version out Canonical obviously don't want the old version (without the latest bug fixes) propagated any more. The only way to stop a torrent in the wild is to stop the tracker. So that is what they did.

> 
Any hope that the Ubuntu people will fix their development and especially their testing processes? 
Development is cracking along. In fact I hear they've just released a new version! 

>  
Or news about possible replacements for Ubuntu? Google Chrome makes me nervous as Google moves into the evil zone... Am I going to be forced to Windows 7? (At least I managed to miss Vista completely.)If fixing bugs and releasing updates makes you nervous, maybe you really should go back to windows where they do a lot less of that. Chrome is designed specifically for web appliances - netbooks and the like. And I see no evidence of google moving into the evil zone. That is just Microsoft FUD.

---

### Post by steffen7 on 2010-09-02
> **hawthornso23 said:**
> So lets get this straight ... Canonical releases a new version so that people downloading ubuntu will get something that is fully up to date and you see this as "additional evidence of the declining quality of ubuntu".  Sheesh!
No offence but releasing a new version is NOT a reason to remove the old version, especially on LTS releases, and certainly not after a mere 4 months. This is not Microsoft Windows, there is no reason to make it harder for people to use non-current versions. If nothing else it has to be possible to compare the two versions, e.g. if you upgrade and have a problem you should be able to download the image again to install it on a different system to see if the problem really is due to the upgrade or if it's unrelated. The logic that applies to CVS, SVN, git etc. applies equally to released files. By your logic it shouldn't be possible to download any kernel older than the current 2.6.35.x, yet Canonical clearly has no trouble distributed far more outdated kernel versions. Why?

> **hawthornso23 said:**
> It was just explained. With a new version out Canonical obviously don't want the old version (without the latest bug fixes) propagated any more. The only way to stop a torrent in the wild is to stop the tracker. So that is what they did.
Canonical has no right or duty to restrict the distribution of old versions. See above, Canonical itself distributes mostly outdated releases - by your logic the new LTS release should be distributed with kernel 2.6.35.x, Python-3.x, etc. Obviously the mere suggestion of doing so is absolutely ridiculous, and the exact same logic applies to outdated releases of distros. I appreciate that Canonical may not want to keep dozens of old images on their mirrors, but how much resources does it take to run a tracker? Canonical should be grateful that people continue to keep the old versions available so they don't have to.

> **hawthornso23 said:**
> Development is cracking along. In fact I hear they've just released a new version! 
If fixing bugs and releasing updates makes you nervous, maybe you really should go back to windows where they do a lot less of that.
Personally I'm running gentoo testing/unstable, but that doesn't mean I'll put stones in the way of people who want to use older versions. Just because I want to use e.g. Python-2.7 doesn't mean the whole world is obliged to follow suit. Whilst Canonical is of course not forcing anyone to upgrade, they are making it harder for people not to for no good reason, as explained above. Please re-instate the trackers and stop doing this.

---

### Post by mstriani on 2011-04-26
Hi, sorry to interrupt... but I have similar problem with transsmition and I think it's nothing to do with the release... the fact is if I try to download some torrents for example my favorite series from eztv.it it gives me the error, but if I use another torrent... it goes fine... and in the other hand if I use another torrent (mldonkey) for my series go well but when I try to download movies from kicksasstorrent.com I have the error 

For the moment I use 2 torrent managers that is anoying!!! If someone has a real solution!! It'd be apritiated!!!!

---

### Post by starwed on 2011-05-22
I just had this error trying to use a torrent -- however, after searching the web and checking Transmission again, I see that *despite* the error, everything is downloading/uploading ok.

So no idea what causes it, but its evidently not a blocking error for the download.

[SIZE="1"](This thread was the first hit on google when I searched for results--so thought I'd share my experience in case it helps others.)[/SIZE]

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-23
I stopped using transmission ages ago. 

rtorrent is what you need. want. 

Trust me on that, it's worth the time to get it configured and installed.

---

### Post by katykat on 2011-05-23
Rtorrent is somewhat primitive. 

I use an older version of uTorrent which works fine in wine (newer versions dont). 
Google for instructions on how to associate it with torrents and magnet links.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-23
it's more command line orientated, if that is what you mean.  I kinda like that though. uTorrent sounds like a good suggestion too.

---

