---
title: "7.10 boot problem grub error 16"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by atconc on 2008-04-25
Hi

I'm having real troubles booting my system.

I recently took the plunge and decided to switch one of my boxes to Ubuntu only.

The install seemed to go great and everything was fine until I connected up my sata drives to my PCI sata card (SIL3114 chipset)

I completely erased and reformated 3 500gb sata drives that are all connected to the sata drive and set them up in ubuntu as software raid 5, took a long time to build but seems to work great. 

The problems started when I tried to reboot.  Now 9 times out of 10 I get "error 16 - inconsistent file system" from grub and it just hangs there.  If I keep rebooting it occasionally works, but this box is usually headless so this is a real pain.

I've tried updating the BIOS on the SIL card to the non raid latest version but it doesn't help.  I've tried various commands at the grub command prompt, but when I reboot the error keeps coming back.

Also now when I try to boot from the live cd I get an error saying "PRESS ANY KEY TO REBOOT"

I suspect this is something to do with the RAID card not consistently allocating the drives in the same order or over riding the boot sequence of the BIOS (motherboard is a7v8x-x running the latest avaliable bios.

Does anyone have any suggestions other than keep rebooting? it's driving me nuts!

---

### Post by StevenHarper on 2008-04-25
could it be the spin-up time on one of the hard disks is longer than the others, have you tried adding a HD Spin-up Delay in the bios?

Steve

---

### Post by atconc on 2008-04-25
Steve

Thanks for the suggestion.

After posting this I sat staring at the pc for a minute, thinking about swapping out the mobo for a spare I have lying around when I noticed the IDE cable for the boot drive looked really tatty.  Swapped it out and it now boots every time, problem solved :)

---

