---
title: "How do I fix &quot;Don't know how to handle 'file:///home/username'&quot; error?"
date: 2020-12-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bullwinkle2 on 2020-12-24
If I launch the Ubuntu Software application I get a message at the top saying "Don't know how to handle 'file:///home/username'" but it still seems to work.

However I tried to install Krusader but when launching it I get a message there saying "Error: Protocol not supported by Krusader: file:///" and no files are displayed in either panel.

These seem to be related issues but I have no idea what is necessary to fix this problem.  I have searched online for answers but haven't come up with anything relevant.  Anyone know the fix?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2020-12-25
Looks like you need to edit the config file </etc/apt/sources.list>. Check it that stuff is there first:

```
grep "file:///home/username" /etc/apt/sources.list
```

---

### Post by bullwinkle2 on 2020-12-26
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Looks like you need to edit the config file </etc/apt/sources.list>. Check it that stuff is there first:

```
grep "file:///home/username" /etc/apt/sources.list
```

The word "file" is not present at all in /etc/apt/sources.list.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2020-12-26
What is the output of:
```
 
sudo grep -r -i file /etc/apt/*

``` 
Thanks

---

### Post by bullwinkle2 on 2020-12-26
> **ActionParsnip said:**
> What is the output of:
```
 
sudo grep -r -i file /etc/apt/*

``` 
Thanks

```
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/20packagekit:// THIS FILE IS USED TO INFORM PACKAGEKIT
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/01autoremove-kernels:// DO NOT EDIT! File autogenerated by /etc/kernel/postinst.d/apt-auto-removal
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades://  if the file /var/run/reboot-required is found after the upgrade
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50command-not-found:## This file is provided by command-not-found(1) to download
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50command-not-found:## Commands metadata files.
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50command-not-found:    # The deb822 metadata files
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/60icons:## This file enables the download of small-size 64x64px
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50appstream:## This file is provided by appstreamcli(1) to download DEP-11
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50appstream:## metadata files.
/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50appstream:    # The YAML metadata files

```

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2020-12-27
It is not clear to me in first post whether your protocol error message displayed *before* you installed Krusader.
But you appear to have something tangible to search for .. i.e. your Krusader panels do not display files/folders.
If you have only just started using Krusader I would use Synaptic Package Manager to remove/purge Krusader inciuding manually disabling/removing *hidden* config files. 

 You might prefer to just disable config files by changing path name. This way you can easily restore them by changing back to original path name.  I just add "_" to path name .. e.g $HOME/.kde => $HOME/._kde.

Reboot and see if error message appears with Krusader removed.
If message does reappear you have eliminated one possibility (Krusader) but now use a tool such as Stacer to inspect what process is associated with the popup message.

If there is no popup message reinstall Krusader and config files and check that you can view files/folders in dual panels.
I use Krusader extensively.

---

