---
title: "how do I install the Adobe Flash Player with the ubuntu 8.o4?"
date: 2008-07-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by carioca on 2008-07-09
:confused:

dear ubuntu community,

how do I install the Adobe Flash Player with the ubuntu 8.o4? because I installed the opera browser (the last version) and it redirected me to the adobe flash player site, but I found options to download to rpm and yum only, and nothig to ubuntu 8.04. could you help me out by installing it? does it work with the firefox 3.0 or the previous one? I'd appreciate your helpful hints.God bless you! 
best regards.

:guitar:

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2008-07-09
If you already have adobe flash player for Firefox already installed, all you have to do is link it to the opera plugin directory.

I don't have opera installed at the moment, but I'll give you an answer in a few minutes (unless someone beats me to it)

Regards
Iain

---

### Post by lamego on 2008-07-09
You need to install the "flashplugin-nonfree" package.

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2008-07-09
OK, I've had a look and apparently the new Opera searches and install Flash Player itself by searching the current directories on your system.

Check it out
[http://deb.opera.com/](http://deb.opera.com/)

```
echo "deb http://deb.opera.com/opera/ lenny non-free" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/opera.list

sudo wget -O - http://deb.opera.com/archive.key | sudo apt-key add -

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install opera

```

Then run and go on a flash enabled site, and it should be working.

If not, check that flash is installed.
```
sudo apt-get install flashplugin-nonfree
```
and restart your browser

If you still get nothing, check this file
```
gedit ~/.opera/pluginpath.ini
```
And it should have this inside it (if not, change it)

```

Opera Preferences version 2.1
; Do not edit this file while Opera is running
; This file is stored in UTF-8 encoding

[Paths]
/usr/lib/opera/plugins=1
/usr/lib/flashplugin-nonfree=1
/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins=1

```

Regards
Iain

---

### Post by carioca on 2008-07-09
:lolflag:

thanks, guys! I got it! I have just to change my sources.list. Is that it? best regards.

:popcorn:

---

