---
title: "10.10 freezes up, randomly becomes unresponsive"
date: 2010-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by walruspanzer on 2010-12-16
Two fresh installs of maverick meerkat on my laptop. Both times, problems started immediately. Playing media files, web browsing with a few tabs, or running bittorrnet freezes my humble system. 

[LIST]
[*]Video files fail [*]Music glitches [*]Programs take over 50 seconds to maximize [*]Gnome interface unresponsive [*]Mouse movement is cumbersome and frustrating[*]Text input takes absurdly long [*]Chrome wants to kill every page that's open.
[/LIST] 
For between 1 and 4 minutes, I'm unable to do even the most basic computer task.  

While running top during the lockup, I observe that any program running actively hog major resources, the main culprits are:
[LIST]
[*]deluge [*]chrome [*]firefox [*]vlc [*]rhythmbox [*]totem [*]transmission [*]Xorg [*]compiz
[/LIST]
At some point or another during a lockup, the active programs running use up all of my CPU and a sizable chunk of RAM. Then after a few minutes, it stops and goes back to running normally for a bit. 

There seems to be no common element that sparks this behavior. Anything I do causes my computer to freeze for 2 minutes. It seems to be a common issue as well, and I've been unable to resolve this substantial problem. Is there some bugfix I am missing? 

I'm really thinking about either downgrading back to 10.04, or giving up ubuntu all together. It used to work great out of the box, but now it seems to be more trouble than I can deal with.

---

### Post by bonius on 2010-12-16
I had similar problems with Maverick. At first I thought my old hardware was to blame, but then I installed xfce4 and logged in with that, and everything was quite snappy again.

Maybe something changed in gnome that makes is more resource hungry in 10.10 than in 10.04?

---

### Post by walruspanzer on 2010-12-16
I have been interested in both xfce and linuxmint for a bit now. My concern is time, I work 65 hours a week and fear that I would be getting in way over my head switching to a different distribution. I'm no power user and my fear is having to learn a whole new interface and losing some of the humble ubuntu customizations I've made to my computer over the years. Is it easy to switch and customize?

---

### Post by bonius on 2010-12-22
Yes, it's quite easy to switch back and forth.  just install xubuntu-desktop, and then from the login screen, select it from the session menu.  If it doesn't work for you, log out and pick the gnome option from the session menu.

---

### Post by Spartako on 2010-12-30
Same here, maverick freezes randomly, but here the freeze is a total lockdown, I mean I can't even switch to TTY1.
I think it isn't related to the system load, I tried to force the freezing by starting a lot of programs, like GIMP, spotify on wine, lots of tabs in firefox, evolution, emphaty etc, and the system worked perfectly without freezing surprises. 
Then I just restarted, launched firefox, visited some web pages, and BAM. with just firefox and one tab.
Restarted, launched spotify (wine), hear some music, BAM.
Restarted, GIMP, firefox, geany, etc... no freezes.
I don't understand this freeze behaviour, is there anyone with the same problem? any clues?


PS: I'm running an old Acer Ferrari 4000 (perhaps this is the problem)

---

### Post by Spartako on 2010-12-31
anyone?

---

### Post by antitude on 2011-01-02
> **Spartako said:**
> Same here, maverick freezes randomly, but here the freeze is a total lockdown, I mean I can't even switch to TTY1.
I think it isn't related to the system load, I tried to force the freezing by starting a lot of programs, like GIMP, spotify on wine, lots of tabs in firefox, evolution, emphaty etc, and the system worked perfectly without freezing surprises. 
Then I just restarted, launched firefox, visited some web pages, and BAM. with just firefox and one tab.
Restarted, launched spotify (wine), hear some music, BAM.
Restarted, GIMP, firefox, geany, etc... no freezes.
I don't understand this freeze behaviour, is there anyone with the same problem? any clues?


PS: I'm running an old Acer Ferrari 4000 (perhaps this is the problem)

I have exactly the same problem. Just installed Ubuntu yesterday, due to being tired of getting BSoD in Windows 7.

Damn, I love Ubuntu when it works, like it does on my netbook for instance, but when it doesn't... well. :confused:

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2011-01-02
Weird behaviour including slowdowns can't be diagnosed with certainty because practically anything can cause them. In your case, you're seeing multiple unrelated programs start to hog the CPU for several minutes, at which point your computer is nearly unresponsive.

The best thing you can do now is try to provide more information - can you take a look at some of the log files (maybe error.log, or messages) to see if there are any messages present that correspond to the times when you experienced slowdowns?

---

### Post by matty_b_1000 on 2011-01-02
I have what I think is the same problem with a brand new Thinkpad SL510. It's usually triggered by DVD playback but occasionally by normal use, manifesting as choppy playback or an unresponsive cursor.

My /var/log/messages isn't interesting reading:
> Jan  2 15:15:14 Franklin rsyslogd: [origin software="rsyslogd" swVersion="4.2.0" x-pid="758" x-info="http://www.rsyslog.com"] rsyslogd was HUPed, type 'lightweight'.
Jan  2 15:27:40 Franklin kernel: [ 1489.855023] lo: Disabled Privacy Extensions
Jan  2 15:27:52 Franklin kernel: [ 1501.975032] exe (2269): /proc/2269/oom_adj is deprecated, please use /proc/2269/oom_score_adj instead.


But my syslog.1 contains a bunch of these:
> Jan  2 15:04:55 Franklin kernel: [  124.566774] hda-intel: spurious response 0x0:0x0, last cmd=0x23902c
Jan  2 15:04:55 Franklin kernel: [  124.605791] hda-intel: spurious response 0x0:0x0, last cmd=0x23902f
Jan  2 15:04:55 Franklin kernel: [  124.643703] hda-intel: spurious response 0x0:0x0, last cmd=0x239032


Is this any help?

---

### Post by william_nbg on 2011-01-03
I just set up a new computer and installed 10.10, and was having a similar problem with firefox freezes, but I noticed I somehow installed both open jre and Oracles jre. I removed open jre and that seemed to fix the problem.

---

### Post by spantch101 on 2011-01-05
ok .. seems the problem has been with the pm-utils in synaptic if you are having this issue check synaptic and see if you are running 1.4... if you are remove it and reinstall older version 1.3 here [http://packages.ubuntu.com/de/lucid/all/pm-utils/download](http://packages.ubuntu.com/de/lucid/all/pm-utils/download) fixed my problem... i just unplugged my laptop and its running perfectly... thanks to aspera for this info on launchpad :) hope this works for you...after install of 1.3 reboot just in case ...let me know how it works out for you.

---

### Post by Spartako on 2011-01-07
Thank you for your responses, I was thinking I was the only one with the lock down issue!

I didn't find anything relevant in log files, so I'm still wondering what's the reason of this behaviour.
any other suggestions? I'll give a try to the java workaround, but I have a bad feeling that will not work...


> **antitude said:**
> I have exactly the same problem. 
Do you have an old acer laptop like me?

---

### Post by Spartako on 2011-01-16
Hi

I still don't know why it happens, but I tried the java workaround and I didn't notice any more freezing problems for a week or so.
I think its gone. thank you for your suggestions!!

---

### Post by synz11 on 2011-02-27
I'm having the same issues here guys.  

For awhile it almost seemed like it was related to USB inputs.  My firefox and anything in the top/bottom menu on the desktop would become unresponsive.  Even mouse clicks wouldn't work on anything except for the active window.  I could CTRL+ALT+DELETE and use the keyboard to restart.  Once it came back up, it was almost immediately unresponsive like before.  

I unplugged my MyPassport and I could suddenly do stuff again...but then it would become unresponsive again in about 5 minutes.  

Finally I restarted with no USB inputs and everything worked fine.  

I've been doing a lot of web development so Firefox has been running all the time during the initial unresponsiveness, so I reinstalled firefox. 

So far no issues but it has only been like 2 hours.  It can take longer for the problem to begin again.

Anyone else have anything similar like this and possibly a solution?  Gets real annoying to have to restart especially when developing on a local virtual server.

Thanks!

Oh - running a Dell Studio 16 XPS

---

### Post by zackboll on 2011-03-10
Hi, 

I just wanted to chime in that I am also having problems with Ubuntu 10.10.  The install was on a new server so I am not sure if the hardware could be to blame

AMD64 10.10
Phenom X6 3.2 GHz
16 GB DDR3
6 2 TB hard drives in raid-5 mdadm
Nforce4 chipset I think

I may try downgrading to Ubuntu 10.04 to see if that improves my issues.

Basically, it looks like the system freezes when performing large data set manipulations.  It looks to freeze around the time that the RAM disk cache fills so I am wondering if it could be related to that.  

As to he cause of the freeze, I can replicate it under a variety of conditions.  Running virtual box with a virtual box shared folder.  On a windows laptop using SMB protocol, and on my mac mini using an NFS mount.  On all situations, the common factor was modifying a large number of files on the Ubuntu Server.  When the system freezes, I lose the ability to open a new terminal, login via ssh, or reboot the machine via the GNOME, although my desktop remains partially functional (can browse on existing firefox windows).  It looks like my RAM cache is about to fill again, I will update again, if this causes my computer to freeze once it fills.

If anyone has any suggestions, I would definitely be up to give them a try.  Otherwise I will be changing to 10.04 to see if I have better luck with that.

Thanks,
Zack

---

### Post by zackboll on 2011-03-10
> **spantch101 said:**
> ok .. seems the problem has been with the pm-utils in synaptic if you are having this issue check synaptic and see if you are running 1.4... if you are remove it and reinstall older version 1.3 here [http://packages.ubuntu.com/de/lucid/all/pm-utils/download](http://packages.ubuntu.com/de/lucid/all/pm-utils/download) fixed my problem... i just unplugged my laptop and its running perfectly... thanks to aspera for this info on launchpad :) hope this works for you...after install of 1.3 reboot just in case ...let me know how it works out for you.

Tried downgrading to 1.3, will report if this works for me.

---

### Post by zackboll on 2011-03-12
My machine just froze again, I am actually typing on it now.  Same behavior as before, I am unable to open a new terminal or reboot the machine.  I guess I will be downgrading to 10.04 soon, unless someone here has a suggestion for a fix.

---

### Post by kalliba on 2011-03-12
I solved my freeze problems by modifying grub, adding "acpi_skip_timer_override" as follows:

sudo gedit /etc/default/grub

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_skip_timer_override"

sudo update-grub

no more interrupts on boot, no more freezes after periods of inactivity, no problems resuming from sleep/hibernate; sometimes you need to hit Enter or Spacebar a couple times, that's all

this is the only thing that has worked for me on my Toshiba a205-s4607 satellite laptop. Note: running 32bit version

---

### Post by zackboll on 2011-03-12
I am not sure if that is my issue, I am running a desktop with power saver settings disabled.  The computer locks up whenever my itunes account access large amounts of data, either through NFS or SMB.  My computer just locked up again the second time today.

---

### Post by XsheepX on 2011-03-12
Are you using the Ubuntu distro designed for laptops/netbooks?

---

### Post by zackboll on 2011-03-12
No, I am using the standard Ubuntu desktop AMD64 release.  System specs in earlier post.

---

### Post by zackboll on 2011-03-13
Looking through the system logs to try and determine what might be freezing my machine, anyone have an idea of what system log I should focus on?  I see that 11.04 is released April 28th, I may just wait and keep hard resetting machine until then to see if that release may fix my issues.

---

### Post by zackboll on 2011-03-13
Just reverted my desktop back to ubuntu 10.04.  I am having my mac mini access the nfs exports via itunes right now, I will report back about whether I have a freezing issue or not.

---

### Post by Aithnea on 2011-03-13
I'm having the same issue.  For me it will lock up and I will be able to click on things on the desktop but unable to type anything or click on the top menu bar.  Doing a hard reboot will generally fix the issue, but it's not a permanent fix.

---

### Post by Aithnea on 2011-03-13
I've found that CTRL+ALT+F2 out of the Desktop and then CTRL+ALT+F7 to get back to the desktop fixes it. Will still have to do it fairly often.

---

### Post by zackboll on 2011-03-14
10.04 is working for me so far, I will probably just stick with this.  To be honest, my bad experiences with 10.10 is probably going to make me a lot more hesitant to upgrade in the future, although I do like access to new features.  With 10.10, first it was the X11 server crashing on nearly every application due to a rolled in Xinerama bug, then this issue which I was unable to track down.

---

### Post by azmathmoosa on 2011-09-07
so did you guys come up with a solution?  I installed 10.10 on my old hp dv6 core 2 duo with 4GB ram, 32-bit maverick.  When i'm simply using chrome, or playing mp3, the system suddenly doesn't respond.  Its  not a total lock up but the system components dont respond like the menu bar, launchers etc.  any running application would continue running, responding normally.  i can open a new tab in chrome and continue browsing a new website or something like that.  But i cant click on the shutdown or restart buttons.  I can press ctrl+alt+del to open the shut down menu and restart and only that fixes the problem.  At the same time, within chrome i cant type in any textboxes that are rendered within a page.

is that info of any help?

---

