---
title: "11.04 64 printing problems"
date: 2011-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hunterkasy on 2011-05-22
I am running ubuntu 11.04 64, and I have a network attached printer,  Hewlett-Packard HP Color LaserJet 3600

I go through the add printer setup and search for a network printer, ubuntu finds it and installs it for me.  when I print the print goes through just fine, when I look at the paper I printed out. all it has is this in the top right corner:

pcl xl error


        subsystem: KERNREL

        Error: IllegalTag

        Operator: 0x45

        Position: 7


can someone help me to print again??

want to let you all know I was able to print to this printer with 10.10 64

thanks

---

### Post by hunterkasy on 2011-05-23
any ideas??

---

### Post by foxhead128 on 2011-05-23
I'm having almost the exact same problem with Ubuntu 11.04 32-bit. I'm using a Toshiba Satellite L505-S5990, and have found that I cannot to print through USB to an HP Color LaserJet 3600. Instead, I end up with a bunch of blank pages, along with a few that have the following text:

PCL XL error
Subsystem: KERNEL
Error: IllegalTag
Operator: 0x45
Position: 7

This problem has *never* happened to me with Ubuntu 10.10, so I'm totally confused as to what's going on. Help on this topic would be most appreciated.

---

### Post by hunterkasy on 2011-05-24
so, no one knows what is going on or how to fix it?

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-24
I had printer problems and I reinstalled 10.10. Problem solved.

---

### Post by foxhead128 on 2011-06-05
@linuxinstalledfromhdd: That's basically what I'm doing for now, only I'm running 10.04 instead of 10.10 (LTS, you know). Like 10.10, 10.04 has no problems at all with printing. I'm a bit disappointed with Canonical for letting something like this happen... hopefully, the problem will be fixed in 11.10. Even so, 10.04 isn't half-bad. The only thing it's missing is more up-to-date software.

---

### Post by audios on 2011-06-14
I have the exact same problem as foxhead128...... just installed Ubuntu on our orchard computer after crazy virus crashed xp for the LAST time and now being thrown into the abyss of Unbuntu!! learning as i go!

---

