---
title: "11.04 - can't login after update - graphical interface"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mzykster on 2011-04-30
Hi
I've updated my ubuntu from 10.10 ==> 11.04.
Now I can't login using graphical inerface. System is loading but it stops right before I should see screen with login credentials. When I use ctrl+alt+del it's going to reboot properly, the same when i push the power button it's shutting down.
System works fine in failsafex mode so I can assume there's a problem with xserver etc.
Using Nvidia 9500GS.

Help needed.
Simple tips are welcome, I'm not so experienced but angry because of this update...

---

### Post by PedroMS on 2011-05-02
Same here. After update I cannot login, What to do now?

---

### Post by PedroMS on 2011-05-02
[mzykster]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1007416") I solved my problem, It is a problem with dual monitor, if you have another monitor plugged just unplug it and restart the pc.

---

### Post by juska on 2011-05-03
So you call that a solution? We could as well disable all the graphics and stick to the command line environment and call that a solution..

I have same kind of problem with 11.04 and two monitors connected to ATI GPU. Gets to login screen, asks for password (even though I had it disabled previously) and after typing it it just flashes the screen and asks it again.

Cant describe how much I hate when always updating Ubuntu ends up to nightmares..

---

### Post by SoG-Hawking on 2011-05-03
> **juska said:**
> So you call that a solution? We could as well disable all the graphics and stick to the command line environment and call that a solution..

I have same kind of problem with 11.04 and two monitors connected to ATI GPU. Gets to login screen, asks for password (even though I had it disabled previously) and after typing it it just flashes the screen and asks it again.

Cant describe how much I hate when always updating Ubuntu ends up to nightmares..

Jusku you do speak from the bottom of my heart :) Everybody still boast to be better than Windows here, with a system like this??? :D

---

### Post by mzykster on 2011-05-06
I've decided to backup my data and setting and reinstalled Ubuntu from CD - works fine.
However, somebody should test it befere it's released as update...

Btw. even with such problems it's better than Windoooows ;)

---

### Post by mzykster on 2011-05-06
Guys, how do you like Unity interface? 
It's hard to get used to it but it seems to be usefull.

---

### Post by ibbill on 2011-05-06
not a real fan of unity. Had to take my nvidia card out of the computer to install 11.04 so am now running with the onboard card. YUK

---

