---
title: "32 vs 64 bit"
date: 2008-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rekahsoft on 2008-12-10
Hi all...afaik there is a large performance increase from 32 bit to 64 bit on computers with a 64 bit architecture...is this correct? I recently bought a new computer and i forgot that i have 8gbs of ram...so obviously the 32 bit version of ubuntu i installed can only recognise 3.2gb...i was thinking of just leaving it but i was thinking since i have a intel core 2 quad 8200 (which is 64 bit afaik) that there would be a reasonable performance increase..not to mention the 64 bit version will recognise all 8gb or ram. So the question is...i have a home partition and a root partition...the settings for gnome should be the same because i would be installing the same version (ubuntu 8.10 with gnome 2.24.1) just the 64 bit version of ubuntu to the root partition..would this work fine? i can find no reason why it wouldn't i was just looking for some thoughts..Thanks :D

---

### Post by binbash on 2008-12-10
there is an easy fix for 3.2ram problem at 32bit.Home partition should not be a problem in this case, it should work fine.

---

### Post by rekahsoft on 2008-12-10
hmm..so i should reinstall with the 64 bit version :s lol o well it should only take a bit lol

---

### Post by Skripka on 2008-12-10
> **rekahsoft said:**
> Hi all...afaik there is a large performance increase from 32 bit to 64 bit on computers with a 64 bit architecture...is this correct? 


Nope, not really.

There are only a few areas such as audio encoding, where any significant increases have been seen, when 64bit vs. 32 is compared on the same system with less than 4Gb of RAM.

---

### Post by xadder on 2009-09-29
> **binbash said:**
> there is an easy fix for 3.2ram problem at 32bit.Home partition should not be a problem in this case, it should work fine.

What is the "easy fix"? I have just installed 8 gig, but see less than 3. I'd prefer to keep the system 32b for now.

Thanks

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-09-29
There is no easy fix for 32 bit to see anything above 3.2 GB of RAM. The truth is, it can't. It's a limitation of 32 bit architecture.

Just backup your home directory and re-install Ubuntu as 64 bit. I re-installed Ubuntu the other day and it took about 20 minutes to install and a further 20 minutes to download all my old programs. Piece. Of. Cake.

---

### Post by xadder on 2009-09-29
OK, thanks. I can wait until the next Ubuntu (9.10) to do a 64 bit install though, since it usually takes me more than 20 mins to get all my old progs working again. Not much more, but just now I'm in deadline-mode and don't dare to risk that!

---

### Post by jmszr on 2009-09-29
xadder,

PAE will allow your 32-bit install to use up to 64 GB RAM : [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE) . That being said, I'd probably wait and go 64-bit with Karmic.

---

### Post by xadder on 2009-09-29
jmszr,

I couldn't resist, and installed the PAE option anyway ... worked immediately :-)

Thanks!

(I'll install 64 bit next month. It is about time now.)

---

