---
title: "10.1 hangs AFTER I sign in."
date: 2011-01-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrMarcusAurelius on 2011-01-03
Hi Community,

Problem: 
I've run Ubuntu from Wubi without problems until 10.1.  I turn on the computer and it asks which OS I want to boot.  I choose "Ubuntu" and it takes me to the list of kernels to boot.  I choose the most recent and, after a few seconds, it loads the screen where I click on my user name and enter my password.  All is well, so far.  The problem is that from there it loads the standard Ubuntu background but no menu bars come up.  The cursor moves, but the screen is just the background.  I can get it to drop to a terminal prompt and sign in but I have no idea what to do from there since I don;t know enough terminal commands to use the OS without the more user friendly interface.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.  I've been using Ubuntu for a while now and I really enjoy it.  I've only needed help on a couple of other occasions in 3 years.  Not too bad.  

Thanks in advance

Marcus

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-01-03
You can try to add the panels manually by right clicking the top of the screen and selecting new panel . Repeat this to add the bottom panel .
 
If succesful right ckick the top panel and select add to panel , from the menu add Menu bar (a custom menu for gnome). From the add to panel menu , add the other needed applets such as notification area , indicator applet , session applet , clock ect.
 
Right click the bottom panel to add window list , workspace switcher , and trash. You can move the applets by right clicking their icons and selecting move.

---

### Post by DrMarcusAurelius on 2011-01-03
Thanks for your response.  I should have indicated that neither right nor left clicking will produce any menus of any kind. I've tried clicking as you suggest, but nothing happens.

---

