---
title: ".bashrc broken after last dist-upgrade"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eternicode on 2008-11-04
I'm running Kubuntu Hardy.  Normally, I send the computer into "standby" mode in lieu of shutting it down.  However, earlier today, when I woke it up, it would not detect my network devices, so I decided to reboot.

Upon reboot, though, it seems that my .bashrc file is no longer loaded into shell sessions (I use yakuake and konsole-kde3 extensively).  This means my PATH is reduced to /bin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin , my prompt is a simple $, and I have no tab completion, amongst other things.  I'm completely at a loss as to how this happened, as I haven't edited any bash-related files in ages, and have rebooted several times since the last time I did modify any of them.  I do know that I ran "sudo aptitude dist-upgrade" last night, but can't remember the one package that was upgraded.

When I try to include the bashrc file directly from the terminal, I get this:

```
$ . ~/.bashrc
/home/andrew/.bashrc: 15: shopt: not found
/etc/bash_completion: 32: [[: not found
/etc/bash_completion: 38: [[: not found
/etc/bash_completion: 50: Bad substitution
```

My .bashrc file:
[ATTACH]91176[/ATTACH]

As far as I can tell, the Desktop environment works fine, it's just the bash environment that's affected.

Any help/ideas are appreciated :D

---

### Post by bwhite82 on 2008-11-04
> sudo dpkg-reconfigure bash

Try this.

---

### Post by eternicode on 2008-11-04
> **Soldierboy said:**
> Try this.

Doesn't seem to have done anything (I did open a new session, still has the same prompt, no auto-complete, etc).

---

### Post by alberto ferreira on 2008-11-04
you have to restart

If it still doesn't work use replace yours with mine:

> # If not running interactively, don't do anything
[ -z "$PS1" ] && return

# don't put duplicate lines in the history. See bash(1) for more options
export HISTCONTROL=ignoredups
# ... and ignore same sucessive entries.
export HISTCONTROL=ignoreboth

# check the window size after each command and, if necessary,
# update the values of LINES and COLUMNS.
shopt -s checkwinsize

# make less more friendly for non-text input files, see lesspipe(1)
[ -x /usr/bin/lesspipe ] && eval "$(lesspipe)"

# set variable identifying the chroot you work in (used in the prompt below)
if [ -z "$debian_chroot" ] && [ -r /etc/debian_chroot ]; then
    debian_chroot=$(cat /etc/debian_chroot)
fi

# set a fancy prompt (non-color, unless we know we "want" color)
case "$TERM" in
    xterm-color) color_prompt=yes;;
esac

# uncomment for a colored prompt, if the terminal has the capability; turned
# off by default to not distract the user: the focus in a terminal window
# should be on the output of commands, not on the prompt
#force_colored_prompt=yes

if [ -n "$force_color_prompt" ]; then
    if [ -x /usr/bin/tput ] && tput setaf 1 >&/dev/null; then
    # We have color support; assume it's compliant with Ecma-48
    # (ISO/IEC-6429). (Lack of such support is extremely rare, and such
    # a case would tend to support setf rather than setaf.)
    color_prompt=yes
    else
    color_prompt=
    fi
fi

if [ "$color_prompt" = yes ]; then
    PS1='${debian_chroot:+($debian_chroot)}\[\033[01;32m\]\u@\h\[\033[00m\]:\[\033[01;34m\]\w\[\033[00m\]\$ '
else
    PS1='${debian_chroot:+($debian_chroot)}\u@\h:\w\$ '
fi
unset color_prompt force_color_prompt

# If this is an xterm set the title to user@host:dir
case "$TERM" in
xterm*|rxvt*)
    PROMPT_COMMAND='echo -ne "\033]0;${USER}@${HOSTNAME}: ${PWD/$HOME/~}\007"'
    ;;
*)
    ;;
esac

#########
#Aliases#
#########

if [ -f ~/.bash_aliases ]; then
    . ~/.bash_aliases
fi

# enable color support of ls and also add handy aliases
if [ "$TERM" != "dumb" ] && [ -x /usr/bin/dircolors ]; then
    eval "`dircolors -b`"
    alias ls='ls --color=auto'
    #alias dir='ls --color=auto --format=vertical'
    #alias vdir='ls --color=auto --format=long'

    #alias grep='grep --color=auto'
    #alias fgrep='fgrep --color=auto'
    #alias egrep='egrep --color=auto'
fi

alias ll='ls -l'
alias la='ls -A'
alias l='ls -CF'

if [ -f /etc/bash_completion ]; then
    . /etc/bash_completion
fi

Then restart (don't forget to make it executable > chmod +x ~/.bashrc

---

### Post by eternicode on 2008-11-04
No such luck either way.  It still gives a complaint about "shopt: not found".

Also, I don't think it has to be executable, as I have an Ubuntu server where my .bashrc is only 644, and it works fine.

---

### Post by eternicode on 2008-11-05
I think I might have found the source of the problem -- my default shell has become "/bin/sh" instead of "/bin/bash".  However, I still don't know how that happened, and my profile won't respond to the chsh command.

If I remember correctly, using chsh to change my shell to bash worked for one reboot, but then I had to reboot again, and I was back to using sh.  This is ridiculous...

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2008-11-16
Though less than ideal, you can just replace dash with bash.
```
sudo ln -sf bash /bin/sh
```

---

