---
title: "7.04 on a USB pen?"
date: 2007-05-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by simonsocial on 2007-05-27
Is it possible for me to install the latest ubuntu on to a USB pen drive? Would this allow me to take my ubuntu anywhere and connect it into any computer? How would I get my computer to boot onto this drive? How much space should I have on my Pen? 2gb? 4gb?

---

### Post by milton1 on 2007-05-27
Yes, if the drive is big enough, and if the systems that you connect to are able to boot from usb. The drive should really be at least 5gb. More if you want space to install lots of your favorite apps.

---

### Post by milton1 on 2007-05-27
> **simonsocial said:**
>  How would I get my computer to boot onto this drive?

This would be a bios setting

---

### Post by simonsocial on 2007-05-27
Cool thanks. Another quesiton, I've got a full install on my desktop PC, is it possible to transfer that onto the USB pen?

---

### Post by Robert Leithe on 2007-06-26
> **milton1 said:**
> Yes, if the drive is big enough, and if the systems that you connect to are able to boot from usb. The drive should really be at least 5gb. More if you want space to install lots of your favorite apps.

5 GB?? The Ubuntu Live CD fits on a, well, a CD. Why not a smaller USB stick?

Sincerely
Robert Leithe

---

### Post by smoker on 2007-06-26
hi, a 1GB or larger flashdrive will do, according to this guide:
[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/02/12/usb-ubuntu-tutorial-for-linux-users/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/02/12/usb-ubuntu-tutorial-for-linux-users/)

> **Note:** This tutorial is based on Ubuntu 6.10. In Ubuntu 7.04, the persistent feature is currently broken.  If your planning to save your changes use 6.10 as suggested here.

read above, also, taken from link,

best of luck

---

