---
title: "touchpad madness!"
date: 2008-07-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by trey333om on 2008-07-30
I have an EEE 900 running Hardy Heron. I'm doing work that requires a lot of typing. It's mind-numbing trying to write anything long because my thumb is always going over the touchpad. So...

I followed the directions here: [_HowTo: Disable Synaptics Touchpad While Typing_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271052&highlight=disable+touchpad+while+typing")

It doesn't work.

I've tried switching *Option "SHMConfig" "on"* to *Option "SHMConfig" "1"*. No luck.

I tried running the [_deb file fix from this forum_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4814767"). No luck.

If I try to run the code **syndaemon -i 1 -d** manually through the terminal, it tells me C***an't access shared memory area. SHMConfig disabled?***


I've remove the lines xorg.conf and sessions, rebooted, and tried again. No luck.

I've installed Gsnypatics. It tells me I have to do what I've already done - turn SHMConfig on. 

I even added a little line that was supposed to disable tapping without using SHMCongfig (***[B]Option "MaxTapTime" "0"***[/B])... you guessed it, no luck.

I'm desperate - any ideas?

---

### Post by jimv on 2008-07-30
Did you restart the xserver (probably, but just checking)?

Can you post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf?

---

### Post by trey333om on 2008-07-30
xserver restarts on reboot, right? I don't know how else to restart it.

[I][SIZE="2"]Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
	Option 		"SHMConfig" 		"on"
EndSection[/SIZE][/I]

---

### Post by jimv on 2008-07-30
Hrmmmm....can you post the entire xorg.conf?

---

### Post by derrick81787 on 2008-07-30
> **trey333om said:**
> I have an EEE 900 running Hardy Heron. I'm doing work that requires a lot of typing. It's mind-numbing trying to write anything long because my thumb is always going over the touchpad. So...

I followed the directions here: [_HowTo: Disable Synaptics Touchpad While Typing_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271052&highlight=disable+touchpad+while+typing")

It doesn't work.

I've tried switching *Option "SHMConfig" "on"* to *Option "SHMConfig" "1"*. No luck.

I tried running the [_deb file fix from this forum_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4814767"). No luck.

If I try to run the code **syndaemon -i 1 -d** manually through the terminal, it tells me C***an't access shared memory area. SHMConfig disabled?***


I've remove the lines xorg.conf and sessions, rebooted, and tried again. No luck.

I've installed Gsnypatics. It tells me I have to do what I've already done - turn SHMConfig on. 

I even added a little line that was supposed to disable tapping without using SHMCongfig (***[B]Option "MaxTapTime" "0"***[/B])... you guessed it, no luck.

I'm desperate - any ideas?

In that same section in your xorg.conf, try adding this line:
```
MaxTapTime "0"
```
That should disable the touchpad.

*****Edit: ** Note that you will have to restart X (Ctl+Alt+Backspace) before the changes take effect.

---

### Post by trey333om on 2008-08-04
Whenever I try to open and edit through the terminal, it locks up for quite some time. Saving and closing likewise take forever.

[I]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
	Option 		"SHMConfig" 		"on"
	Option		"MaxTapTime" 		"0"

EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection[/I]

---

### Post by jimv on 2008-08-07
Well here's the problem.  Your touchpad isn't a Synaptics touchpad, it's one called Elantech.  So the SHMconfig option isn't going to work.

BUT

Here's thread that should fix the issue:
[http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=30685](http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=30685)

---

### Post by trey333om on 2008-08-08
I had actually already done this. Still nothing... it seems incomplete. 

First, in my latest Kernal driver (Adamm's EEE *.20), there was no such mouse folder or driver to replace. There was in older kernal directories though. Do I need to place the kernal in that original *.16 directory as per the (old) instructions? 

Also, there's no instrutions for re-configuring xorg.conf to change from Synaptics to Elantech....

---

### Post by cuvy on 2008-09-23
Has anyone had any luck with this? I have exactly the same problem. I have tried all the steps given and no luck. I am running the array.org kernel (2.6.21-21-eeepc).

Phil

---

### Post by Tiler on 2008-12-03
I followed the instructions [from the disable thread too]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271052&highlight=disable+touchpad+while+typing").  I realized it didn't work when I installed the GUI synaptic tool which caused  me to lose my two finger scrolling.  [I]If someone has a fix for that, I'm interested.
[/I]

[Here's the thread for the above.]("http://wiki.eeeuser.com/howto:touchpad_in_advanced")

If you're having problems with the typing time-out make sure your edit line in the xorg.conf is this:

> Option 		"SHMConfig" 		**"true"**

I've meant to go check the subsequent messages in that thread for a while and keep forgetting... going now.

I'm on the eee 1000 running ubuntu-eee Hardy.  Hope that helps.

---

