---
title: "11.04 sucks!"
date: 2011-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Linxguy on 2011-05-16
First no wifi, which I managed to fix with help from here, and no sound either. Both worked fine in 10.10.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2011-05-16
And? You posted a complaint to the general help forum. Do you have a need for assistance or is this post just venting?

---

### Post by 3xp10r3r|X13 on 2011-05-16
I agree!
But it's just the graphical interface which annoys me. The system itself is completely fine.

Solution:
Switch to Kubuntu 11.04 or just install the KDE desktop environment!!!

--> I think you're also able to delete the panel on the left

Hope this helped, although I really doubt, that this was a serious thread:D

---

### Post by neuroqx on 2011-05-17
Unity really sucks!!!
Why did Ubuntu drop Gnome?:confused:
It was working great, I had Compiz up and running, now with Unity, it just didn't work. Didn't like it.[-(
I switched to KDE and Lubuntu, and both work great!
So I guess it will be Kubuntu for me from here on...
But will Ubuntu go back to Gnome? [-o<

---

### Post by OM NOM NOM on 2011-05-17
It's new. It needs time to develop. You can certainly install GNOME as an alt. I'm going to hold off for now to see how it develops further but I think there's some good ideas in there. 

If Ubuntu's goal is to break into the mainstream its going to have to standardize on an as end-user friendly a UI as possible. 

Whatever happens the next year or so should be really interesting for Ubuntu. Seriously its amazing how they've helped make GNU/Linux more user friendly. I boot up other distros from time as a sanity check and wow it feels like I'm going back five or so years. :-)

---

### Post by bowens44 on 2011-05-17
> **Linxguy said:**
> First no wifi, which I managed to fix with help from here, and no sound either. Both worked fine in 10.10.

I don't like Unity and won't use it but Kubuntu 11.04 works great!

Still using gnome classic and 10.10 (the closet thing to a perfect distro I have ever seen) on my  main computer and have Kubuntu 11.04 running on another box. I'm really liking it.

---

### Post by 3 frags left on 2011-05-17
Inb4 admin moves this to Testimonials thread.

You can try Xubuntu Natty if you feel like.

---

### Post by fooman on 2011-05-17
no need to switch over to kubuntu, xubuntu or any other variant of ubuntu...the more familiar *classic gnome* is still included (for now),  to switch to it:

at the login screen,  click once on your user name,  then look down at the bottom of the page and change the selection to "ubuntu classic"...then type in your password and press enter.

---

### Post by silex89 on 2011-05-17
In comparison with 10.04, this new version isn't THAT good, but good enough to keep using it and wait for Oneiric :D. Hopefully that version will be better



Regards

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-05-17
They're nothing stopping you from reinstalling 10.10 or 10.04 and using that instead. Both will continue to be supported for some time yet (10.10 for a just under a year, 10.04 for just under two years).

---

### Post by potat on 2011-05-17
> **neuroqx said:**
> Unity really sucks!!!
Why did Ubuntu drop Gnome?:confused:
...
But will Ubuntu go back to Gnome? [-o<

GNOME 2 is deprecated; it is no longer being supported and will no longer be included in modern distros. Ubuntu's choices were to migrate to GNOME 3 (which is very different to GNOME 2 but quite similar to Unity) or to design their own DE that would integrate well with the distro. They chose the second. Nobody is going back to GNOME 2.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2011-05-18
Hmm. Going back to Gnome 2 is actually stating it in the wrong direction: One should say that not all people want to progress to Gnome 3 or Unity. They prefer to stay at Gnome 2. 

Ubuntu 11.04 is making this rather hard. At least on my Asus EEE laptop when I dist-upgrade my 10.10 to 11.04 some things fail to work and quite a number of bugs pop up as mentioned by many users on the forum. On 10.10 I used Compiz, Awn and Gnome2 as a desktop system. On 11.04, while the same should be running easily, Compiz + Awn fail to run. After I finally get Compiz to work Awn often crashes. However more frustrating, somehow Unity was installed on my system (I did not ask this) and also fails to run. I did not want unity, just an upgraded Gnome2 + Compiz + Awn environment. 

Redoing a 11.04 minimal install just gives a blinking yellow cursor instead of a terminal to continue the rest of the install. 
A workaround typing ctrl-alt-f1 and start tty1 works.

A full 11.04 Unity install does seem to work (slowly), but 
- Synaptic often fails to comprehend the correct root password
- Sound modules are not working correctly
- I am randomly logging out of the distro
- Card reader fails to read SD's
- I have a whole bunch of software I never use.
- It's eating up my battery like potato chips.

In the end it took me 2 days to have a crippled system and I reloaded my 10.10 backup. So in this light I am not to fond of the 11.04 Unity Ubuntu distro. This is not the Unity fault, but more the fact that much more time of the developers has been put into unity as compared to solving other bugs & problems for people who do not want - or cannot use Unity. Also it becomes harder and harder to install loose packages. E.g. UbuntuOne is also installed with a minimal install, while in no way it is required for any Linux operating system.

This is the first Ubuntu that made me look at Xubuntu and Fedora respectively for the future as well. But please note, this is my situation and my opinion. Given that we all have different systems and wishes, opinions about 11.04 may be different for all of us.

---

### Post by Homicide on 2011-05-18
> **Jouke74 said:**
>  On 11.04, while the same should be running easily, Compiz + Awn fail to run.

Hah, right after I installed 11.04, I decided to go ahead and set up desktop cube and all that noise, but compiz decided "Hmm. Nope, I'll just blow up instead." I eventually got my WM back by switching to metacity, but I'll be damned if I can get compiz up and running again.

Once I rebuild my desktop, I'm probably just gonna drop my dual-boot on this system and go back to 10.04

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-18
Hi, I have awn and compiz working with the cube, an all effects, there is a thread to get them working,it takes more setting up then before but it is worth it, and my system never crashes.:p

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2011-05-19
Oh please give me the link to the thread :-) I'll have another go at 11.04 soon :-)

---

### Post by frankie1234 on 2011-08-05
Gotta agree here. I just installed xfce4 on mine as an alternative to unity and that even crashed. I'm going back to 10.10, It simply works better

---

