---
title: ".exe in UBUNTU"
date: 2011-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jeshrel on 2011-05-10
Hi,

I just migrated to ubuntu 10.10, can someone help with how to run a .exe file in ubuntu 10.10 without installing wine. Thank you

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-05-10
You can't. EXE files are Windows executables, only made to run on that operating system.

You can't use them on other operating systems without using some type of interpreter, emulator or virtual machine.

(The exception being some C#/.NET programs which can be run with Mono)

---

### Post by sj1410 on 2011-05-10
you will need wine or similar kind of emulator to run exe on linux.

---

### Post by fballem on 2011-05-10
> **jeshrel said:**
> Hi,

I just migrated to ubuntu 10.10, can someone help with how to run a .exe file in ubuntu 10.10 without installing wine. Thank you

May I ask what .exe files you want to run? There may be some very good Linux alternatives.

Regards,

---

### Post by jeshrel on 2011-05-10
> **fballem said:**
> May I ask what .exe files you want to run? There may be some very good Linux alternatives.

Regards,

I have few computer based training .exe files and i would like to open it in ubuntu

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-05-10
...what is it?Maybe there is a linux alternative for it.

---

### Post by fballem on 2011-05-10
> **jeshrel said:**
> I have few computer based training .exe files and i would like to open it in ubuntu

If you could be more specific, then people here may be able to suggest alternatives.

Wine can be used to run some Windows EXE files, but not all, and not all of the ones that run will run well.

---

### Post by wsamh on 2011-05-10
If you want to run .exe files in Ubuntu. You have to install wine. I use some .exe programs as well. I have found a video that I had posted on my blog that shows you how to do it. Hope it is helpful. Not all programs will run smmoothly on wine. Since linux is not made to run windoes apps. there is a database on winehq.org. Check to see if your program is listed, If not, give it a try or see if you can find a alternative program that can run on ubuntu.

[http://ubuntufever.blogspot.com/2011/04/windows-software.html](http://ubuntufever.blogspot.com/2011/04/windows-software.html)

---

