---
title: "6.06 or 6.10?"
date: 2006-11-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ntense on 2006-11-28
so tomorrow there should be a new addition to the family! girlfriend pregnent you ask? no, this new addition is coming from tiger direct... just picked up a new gateway laptop.. the first thing im going to do is wipe the hard drive so i can put ubuntu on it. whats the problem then you ask? well i have 6.06 on my desktop and i see that 6.10 is out. i have read what some of the changes are but the thing that im worried about is support. is there really much difference.. should i stop being a whining sniveling baby? help me out. im not a total linux noob but i still have quite a way to go

---

### Post by b3tzi on 2006-11-28
Go for the 6.06.
The 6.10 is too buggy. :???:

---

### Post by Circus-Killer on 2006-11-28
well, 6.06 is more stable. i'de say if you have the bandwidth and the time, give 6.10 a try. but if you have neither bandwidth or time, and need the machine for reliable work use, then just stick with 6.06.

its up to you. me personally, i only use ubuntu at home, so i dont need to worry if my box goes down, so i use 6.10. although, i must also add, i haven't been having the same troubles as everyone else. 6.10 has been running smoothly for me since day 1.

---

### Post by igknighted on 2006-11-28
I will always recommend 6.10, I think that 6.10 is a more advanced foundation for the future and is mature enough at this point that you shouldn't have any major issues (I have used 6.10 since RC1 and have had less issues with it than 6.06, so in many ways I think the horror stories circulating are quite overstated).  As far as support, the forum will usually be more supportive of the most recent version.  Although official channels will be available for support of 6.06 for some time, I always use the forum first and formost with any questions.  I don't think you could go wrong with 6.10, but try the live CD out and see how your hardware works, and if there aren't issues I'd go with 6.10.

---

