---
title: "19.04 - PrtScr to Clipboard. How to do this?"
date: 2019-08-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-24
The standard installation has an implementation of PrtScr (screenshot) that opens a window with a few options. This is fine, but continuing I land in LXImage-Qt, which is totally useless. The first "Screenshot" window is apparently a part of this program.

Q: How can I do a screenshot that lands on the clipboard? A search indicates that I need a separate clipboard program for this.

My goal is to simply do a screenshot that is then available for any graphic program via "Paste".

All ideas are appreciated.

Thank You.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-08-24
> My goal is to simply do a screenshot that is then available for any graphic program via "Paste".
Install gnome-screenshot. It works fine in Lubuntu 19.04. Has options to copy screenshot to clipboard or save to file.

You can set gnome-screenshot to launch with the Print Screen key by changing a setting in **Preferences > LXQt Settings > Shortcut Keys**. Modify the command associated with  'Print' to: 
```
gnome-screenshot -i
```
To skip the dialog window entirely, other options are given in the man page for gnome-screenshot.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2019-08-25
lxqt-image has an item "copy" in the menu "edit" and a "copy"-icon in the toolbar. Both copy the current image to the clipboard.

Holger

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-25
Problem is that gnome-screenshot is no longer supported and the PPA is dead.
In the meantime, I've considered Flameshot. Any experience?

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2019-08-25
> **ml9104 said:**
> Problem is that gnome-screenshot is no longer supported and the PPA is dead.
gnome-screenshot has always been supported. It is available from the repositories for all currently supported releases of Ubuntu.

No need for a PPA. See [packages.ubuntu·com]("https://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=gnome-screenshot&searchon=names&suite=all&section=all").

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-25
I have probably phrased my question imprecisely, sorry.

I wish to use PrtScr and Alt-PrtScr as I'm used to from Win.
This means, that using these keystrokes, a "quiet" copy is automatically made of the screen that is available on the clipboard for later processing.
I have zero interest in applications that force me into a certain editor, like LXImage-Qt.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-08-25
> **ml9104 said:**
> I have probably phrased my question imprecisely, sorry.

I wish to use PrtScr and Alt-PrtScr as I'm used to from Win.
This means, that using these keystrokes, a "quiet" copy is automatically made of the screen that is available on the clipboard for later processing.
I have zero interest in applications that force me into a certain editor, like LXImage-Qt.

Any ideas?

The "quiet copy" you refer to was explained in post #2, in the setup of Print Screen key to use **gnome-screenshot**. The command as shown there with **-i** option, you get the interactive dialog window. With other options given in the gnome-screenshot man page, you can skip the dialog (copy in background). For copying entire screen to clipboard, use **-c** option.

I'm not sure you can make this work without gnome-screenshot. Maybe or maybe not.

And what does Alt-PrintScreen do in Windows?

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-26
> [COLOR=#000000]And what does Alt-PrintScreen do in Windows?[/COLOR]

PrtScr: whole screen
Alt-PrtScr: current window

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-08-26
So to mimic the Windows actions one could define custom key combinations to copy window screenshot directly to clipboard, or save it directly to file, by using Global Actions Manager at **Menu > Shortcut Keys**. gnome-screenshot must be installed.

Initial Results:

Alt + PrintScreen wasn't accepted when tried to define it, so I used **Control + PrintScreen** (C-Print) for copying screenshot of active window directly to clipboard, and defined **Shift + Control + PrintScreen** for saving screenshot of active window directly to a file (saves to Pictures folder). I left Print to bring up the interactive dialog.

You can make your own definitions.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-26
OK, I found gnome-screenshot in the Lubuntu Package Manager (Muon) and installed it.
I modified the Shortcut Keys in LXQt as following:
"print" with command: **gnome-screenshot -c**
"alt-print" with command: **gnome-screenshot -cw**

Now this seems to work, when I press PrtScr or Alt-PrtScr the screen blinks very briefly and a camera-shutter like sound can be heard from the speaker.

But my graphic programs show nothing to paste, which leads me to think that gnome-screenshot saves to a different Clipboard than the programs expect.

Where should I look to correct this?

Thank You.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-26
Stop, stop, stop.

Both keystrokes and paste operations work wonderfully. The only thing that doesn't work is capturing and pasting the desktop (I couldn't care less), and this is unfortunately how I was testing gnome-screenshot.

Dennis N, Thank You very much, this has made my life easier and has solved a newbie issue.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-08-26
Below is what I made. I do mostly capturing the active window, so I only defined new shortcuts for that. 

As I said in last post made (#9), I couldn't use Alt-Print for a shortcut - it didn't register at all in the manager. But shortcut works with Control-Print instead.
```

Print		gnome-screenshot -i			interactive dialog
C-Print 	gnome-screenshot -w -b -c		active window to clipboard
S-C-Print	gnome-screenshot -w -b			active window to file

```
C=Control
S=Shift

I get no sounds at all with the screenshots. Only feedback is a brief window flicker.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-26
I've set this thread back to "unsolved", as I've experienced some extremely erratic behaviour with gnome-screenshot.

Taking a screenshot of the desktop will not work.
Taking a full screenshot of the desktop with a minimized program window on top of it will not work.
Taking a screenshot of only the minimized window will work.
Taking a full screenshot of a maximized program window will work
Taking a full screenshot of several minimized program windows will not work if the desktop is visible behind them.
Taking a full screenshot of several minimized program windows will work if another full program window is visible behind them.
etc. etc.

In short: when a part of the desktop is visible, gnome-screenshot doesn't work.
I've never experienced such weirdness before (except with copy-protection schemes).

---

### Post by again? on 2019-08-27
Try scrot with xclip. 
May need to install scrot and xclip.
eg 
_selection_ (either click in window or hold down mouse1 to draw selection area)
```
scrot -s /tmp/screenshot-$(date +%F_%T).png -e 'xclip -selection c -t image/png < $f'
```

_fullscreen_
```
scrot /tmp/screenshot-$(date +%F_%T).png -e 'xclip -selection c -t image/png < $f'
```

To use with a shortcut key create a script with a delay and use path to script as command in key shortcuts.
eg
```
#!/bin/bash

sleep 0.5
scrot -s /tmp/screenshot-$(date +%F_%T).png -e 'xclip -selection c -t image/png < $f'
```

If you want to save screenshots change directory from /tmp as will be cleared on reboot.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-08-27
I ran **gnome-screenshot -c** in terminal and then pasted clipboard into L.O. writer and this worked the first time. After that, no. So something is unsupported or buggy when using this -c clipboard option in Lubuntu. But the copy to clipboard still works reliably from the interactive mode! For shots of entire screen going to clipboard you may need to use that mode instead. 

Screenshot of entire screen done in background and auto-saved to a file (**gnome-screenshot** with no options) is working o.k. when initiated by a shortcut. (I made a new shortcut key combination just to be sure.)

Edit:

In Ubuntu terminal, **gnome-screenshot -c** works as expected. The warning that shows in Lubuntu's terminal isn't there. Subsequent pastes into L.O. Writer all worked. In fact, there is a shortcut already defined in Ubuntu to take a screenshot of the entire screen and copy it directly to clipboard: Control+PrintScr. Other screenshot shortcuts are also there. So clearly, using Ubuntu is an option.
 
Or, maybe scrot and xclip (post #14) will be the answer you seek for Lubuntu?

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-27
I'm astounded that such a simple function is so problematic.
A basic issue is apparently that both gnome-screenshot and scrot (I don't even want to try that) are CLI tools and do not get along well with LXQt.

I'll have to keep looking, I'm deinstalling gnome-screenshot at this point, it's simply not reliable.

Scrot even boasts that it can do more than gnome-screenshot, which is not what I need. I need a reliable screenshot that can do LESS!

I only want two hotkeys that can shoot the whole screen or the active window reliably. It seems to be too much to ask. :(

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-27
I now have a workaround, but it's very tedious and in no way intuitive.

PrtScr brings up the screenshot window of lximage-qt. Continuing, I land in lximage-qt. From there, I can do an Edit, Copy to Clipboard.
Now my screenshot is finally available to all graphics programs.

"Easy-to-use" and "user-friendly" are not present here. What are the Lubuntu/LXQt people thinking?
Why not a simple copy to clipboard?
Why do I need to use lximage-qt first?

The PrtScr -> Clipboard functionality is so totally basic, and works in other Linux distributions.

---

### Post by again? on 2019-08-27
> **ml9104 said:**
> I'm astounded that such a simple function is so problematic.
A basic issue is apparently that both gnome-screenshot and scrot (I don't even want to try that) are CLI tools and do not get along well with LXQt.)



FYI: I tested scrot and xclip in a live 19.04 usb lxqt session and worked fine.

Also with lximage you can just click the icon to copy to clipboard.
2 clicks...copy to clipboard and close button.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]283882[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-08-27
Well, you've got the options. You just have to decide. Sounds like you are not interested in Ubuntu, even if it has the screenshot shortcut functionality you want?

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-28
> **Dennis N said:**
> Well, you've got the options. You just have to decide. Sounds like you are not interested in Ubuntu, even if it has the screenshot shortcut functionality you want?

Well, that would be exaggerated. I love my Lubuntu 19.04 and also LXQt and am 99% satisfied.
It just irks me that a simple function that takes two keystrokes in Win (PrtScr - Ctrl-V) can't be done here.

Thanks for all your help.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-31
[SIZE=2]OK, I'm totally happy now. 1000 Thanks to guber2 for the suggestions. Print screen and print window work 100% reliably.

I've assigned the following commands to the shortcut keys in LXQt:

PrtScr: [/SIZE]**scrot /tmp/screenshot/clip.png -e 'xclip -selection c -t image/png < $f'**[SIZE=2]
[/SIZE][SIZE=2]Alt-PrtScr: [/SIZE][B]scrot -u /tmp/screenshot/clip.png -e 'xclip -selection c -t image/png < $f'[SIZE=2]
[/SIZE][/B]
At first it didn't work, but after putting on my thinking hat I assigned 777 mode to /tmp/screenshot which fixed the issue.

It's now reliable and easy.

After reading man scrot and man xclip I am fully aware of what the command does, except for "< $f" at the end. What's that for?

Thanks.

EDIT: after a reboot, nothing worked in this respect. Again putting on my thinking hat I realized that /tmp is not the smartest place for a new directory. :(
It's now a subdirectory in my home directory.

---

### Post by again? on 2019-08-31
"**$f**" in this case is a format specifier that scrot expands to a filename.
See man scrot under "SPECIAL STRINGS".
So the path entered in the first part of the command can be represented as %f in the latter part of the command.
"**< **" means to accept input from a file... in this case being %f

Files you save to /tmp should be owned by you with read and write access. No need to change permissions.
The original commands I gave placed the screenshots directly in **/tmp**
Your commands place them in **/tmp/screenshot ** which, as /tmp is cleared on a reboot would not exist.
You would need to first recreate the directory with **mkdir /tmp/screenshot** else your scrot command would fail.

I used /tmp in my example because I thought you wanted to paste the screenshot into a graphics application and save from there.
But if you want to save the original screenshot use a permanent $HOME directory.

Additionally your current command using "clip.png" to name the screenshot, will overwrite your previously saved screenshot.
You may want to use the date variable I used to give unique names to your screenshots to not overwrite previous ones.
(YYYY-MM-DD_HH:MM:SS)
```
screenshot-$(date +%F_%T).png
```

eg
```
**[COLOR="#006400"]glen@Bionic:~$[/COLOR] echo screenshot-$(date +%F_%T).png**
screenshot-2019-09-01_09:26:37.png
```

**[COLOR="#FF0000"]**NB**[/COLOR]**: If you name the screenshot using the date command you need to use the path to a bash script as the keyboard shortcut command
as shown in [post #14]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2425362&page=2&p=13882544#post13882544") and pic below. 
Script needs to be executable.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-09-01
@guber2, Thank You for the explanation, it makes sense now.

[COLOR=#000000]"Additionally your current command using "clip.png" to name the screenshot, will overwrite your previously saved screenshot."[/COLOR]

Actually, this is exactly what I want, which is why i chose a fixed file name. The clipboard should only contain the latest shot.

---

