---
title: "9.10 =&gt; Windows 7 Ultimate Remote Desktop"
date: 2010-04-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ksaul on 2010-04-12
My company uses Ubuntu 9.10 and I am using Windows 7 on my computer at home, and use a Linksys wireless router (at home). I want to use remote desktop at work to connect to my computer at home. What do I need to configure on windows side, so that tomorrow I can login to my computer?

Thanks!!

---

### Post by JoelOl75 on 2010-04-12
You need to configure your router to use dyndns so you can find your computer first of all.  And also forward port 3389 to your Windows boxen and make sure your computer's built in firewall doesn't block it.  Set up RDP on windows computer.  Use rdesktop (or grdesktop) from linux box to contact windows box.  This works well on fast links. I believe you cannot do this with "HOME" versions of XP so read below.

On slower links use RealVNC on the Windows box.  Forward the vnc port 6800 or 6900 IIRC from the router to the Windows box.  Use TightVNC, Vino or some other similar VNC Client on Linux box to reach Windows box.

You can google the various stuff to find more specifics on this.

---

### Post by KeLa on 2010-04-12
Try TeamViewer. It's good and doesn't require any changes in routers or firewalls and no dyndns either.
I use it to get remote control of my win7 box at home when i'm out of home.
There is web browser based client that works in any os.

---

### Post by ksaul on 2010-04-12
> **JoelOl75 said:**
> You need to configure your router to use dyndns so you can find your computer first of all.  And also forward port 3389 to your Windows boxen and make sure your computer's built in firewall doesn't block it.  Set up RDP on windows computer.  Use rdesktop (or grdesktop) from linux box to contact windows box.  This works well on fast links. I believe you cannot do this with "HOME" versions of XP so read below.

On slower links use RealVNC on the Windows box.  Forward the vnc port 6800 or 6900 IIRC from the router to the Windows box.  Use TightVNC, Vino or some other similar VNC Client on Linux box to reach Windows box.

You can google the various stuff to find more specifics on this.

How do I configure my router to use DynDNS?

---

### Post by ksaul on 2010-04-13
> **ksaul said:**
> How do I configure my router to use DynDNS?

I am behind a router, and i have dyndns setup in my linksys but my ip is timing out whenever i try to check to make sure the ports (3389,3390,5900,5800) are forwarded correctly. I am using WRT54G.
I am trying to connect Ubuntu 9.1 -> Windows 7 Ultimate via Remote Desktop or VNC

---

### Post by JoelOl75 on 2010-04-13
Not all routers support dyndns.  I know the linksys routers do and any router that you can flash with ddwrt or tomato will also work.

There's also some linux and windows client software that checks your IP and forwards it to your dyndns account but I don't recall any off hand.

---

### Post by savaan on 2010-04-14
I'm attempting to set up a connection to a friend some 300 miles away where I can access her Windows XP desktop from my Ubuntu 9.10. I'm hoping all that I'll need will be her IP address...she's not behind a router, but plugged (not buttplugged) straight into the modem

---

### Post by ksaul on 2010-04-14
If I just use Ubuntu on my home computer, work remote desktop be easier from work?

---

