---
title: "23&quot;  monitor screen resolution problem"
date: 2009-06-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by psykro on 2009-06-22
I am running ubuntu jaunty, with an nvidia 9600gt graphics card. I have installed the nvidia drivers and therefore use the nvidia xserver settings gui to set my screen resolutions etc.

I recently upgraded my monitor from a 19" philips crt to a 23" Samsung widescreen LCD. When I configure the screen resolution to what I want, I am able to save the settings to my xorg.conf file (settings included below) which are correct as far as I can see.

The problem is each time I log out or restart the machine the screen resolution settings are reset back to what they used to be on the 19" monitor (1280X1024) and I cannot figure out why.

Any help would be appreciated.

new xserver settings:
```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 61.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "1920x1080_60 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-06-22
did you run nvidia-settings as root? ...in order to make the changes "stick",  run it as root with this command:

```
gksu nvidia-settings
```make the changes, click "apply" then "save to x configuration file"

see if that helps.

---

### Post by aesis05401 on 2009-06-22
From man nvidia-settings:
       "When nvidia-settings starts, it reads the  current  settings  from  its
       configuration  file and sends those settings to the X server.  Then, it
       displays a graphical user interface (GUI) for configuring  the  current
       settings.   When nvidia-settings exits, it queries the current settings
       from the X server and saves them to the configuration file"

So theoretically, your changes should be replicated back to the nvidia-settings config file but it is not happening - and you are restoring the old snapshot on each reboot.  

Can you attempt to make these changes through whatever nvidia settings manager might be available as opposed to changing xorg.conf directly?  If doing this fixes the problem then you may want to take some time over at launchpad checking on whether the developers are aware of the issue.

Edit: someone beat me to it !

---

### Post by psykro on 2009-06-23
That is in fact the issue, I have run nvidia settings from the console as sudo root user using ```
sudo nvidia-settings
``` then selecting "save to x configuration file" to save the settings, this is how I created the xorg.conf settings I posted. It's almost as if the xserver is not reading those settings somehow every time I logon.

when I login and the screen resulotion is wrong, the first thing I did was check the xorg.conf file and the settings are exactly as I posted them, so you can see my frustration...:confused:

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-06-23
Try a Display subsection (under Screen) like this, replacing 1440 and 900 with your preferred resolution:

```
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1440x900"
		Virtual	1440 900
	EndSubSection
```

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-06-23
> **Legace said:**
> Try a Display subsection (under Screen) like this, replacing 1440 and 900 with your preferred resolution:

```
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1440x900"
		Virtual	1440 900
	EndSubSection
```

Yeah no, use the command it will actually work and you will be able to save to the xorg.conf file  ```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by aesis05401 on 2009-06-23
> **psykro said:**
> That is in fact the issue, I have run nvidia settings from the console as sudo root user using ```
sudo nvidia-settings
```
*snip*


Alright.  I have never seen this in action, but I know that using 'sudo' to launch GUI apps with admin privs is not recommended because the launched process can inherit incorrect permissions.

Can you try launching nvidia-settings with 'gksu' instead just to see if this allows you to make your changes persist?

I know this sounds weird, and I didn't understand the difference until someone showed me some developer blog posts about how permissions are assigned in various circumstances.  I think the example they used was launching Firefox with sudo vs gksu and attempting to perform various tasks - some of which failed in odd ways when using sudo.

---

### Post by psykro on 2009-06-24
> **Legace said:**
> Try a Display subsection (under Screen) like this, replacing 1440 and 900 with your preferred resolution:

```
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1440x900"
		Virtual	1440 900
	EndSubSection
```

Tried this, it hasn't worked.

> **aesis05401 said:**
> Alright.  I have never seen this in action, but I know that using 'sudo' to launch GUI apps with admin privs is not recommended because the launched process can inherit incorrect permissions.

Can you try launching nvidia-settings with 'gksu' instead just to see if this allows you to make your changes persist?

I know this sounds weird, and I didn't understand the difference until someone showed me some developer blog posts about how permissions are assigned in various circumstances.  I think the example they used was launching Firefox with sudo vs gksu and attempting to perform various tasks - some of which failed in odd ways when using sudo.

Tried using gksu nvidia-settings instead of sudo nvidia-settings, no change.

The problem is not the creation/saving of the nvidia-settings to the xorg.conf file, the problem seems to be that the system does not read the resolution from that file on log in, or gets a resolution setting from somewhere else.

---

