---
title: "[SOLVED] Automount volume switches mount points"
date: 2008-09-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by timbalisto on 2008-09-26
I have a volume on a separate drive I use for media. I use nautilus bookmarks for documents/pictures/music/videos for that media volume, I set rhythmbox's to use the music directory on the media volume and Desktop drapes is set the same for wallpapers.  so I downloaded  NTFS Configuration Tool to automount that volume along with my Windows Vista and XP volumes. When I restarted the bookmarks would me missing along with the directory associations for Rhythmbox and Drapes. So I got rid of NTFS Configuration Tool and decided to edit fstab. 

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=1744f2e0-7d33-4377-bcdc-173a67431e20 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7b0c42dd-b74a-4c87-9e51-12d5d0204d8e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb2 /media/Comunity\040Storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2
/dev/sdb1 /media/Windows\040XP ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2
/dev/sda2 /media/Windows\040Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2
```

I thought changing the last numbers to 2 would solve the problem, but on subsequent restarts, the bookmarks/music/wallpapers are missing. I looked at the volumes mounted on the desktop, my Comunity Storage location says it's "/media/Windows Vista" , the Vista volume says "/media/Comunity Storage", the Recovery volume for Vista says "/media/Windows XP" and the XP volume says "/media/Windows XP_".

I would like these volumes to mount during boot: Comunity Storage, Windows Vista, Windows XP. I'd like the nautilus bookmarks, Rhythbox, and Desktop Drapes to point to the corresponding directories on Comunity Storage. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks

---

### Post by russlar on 2008-09-26
> **timbalisto said:**
> I have a volume on a separate drive I use for media. I use nautilus bookmarks for documents/pictures/music/videos for that media volume, I set rhythmbox's to use the music directory on the media volume and Desktop drapes is set the same for wallpapers.  so I downloaded  NTFS Configuration Tool to automount that volume along with my Windows Vista and XP volumes. When I restarted the bookmarks would me missing along with the directory associations for Rhythmbox and Drapes. So I got rid of NTFS Configuration Tool and decided to edit fstab. 

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=1744f2e0-7d33-4377-bcdc-173a67431e20 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7b0c42dd-b74a-4c87-9e51-12d5d0204d8e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb2 /media/Comunity\040Storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2
/dev/sdb1 /media/Windows\040XP ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2
/dev/sda2 /media/Windows\040Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2
```

I thought changing the last numbers to 2 would solve the problem, but on subsequent restarts, the bookmarks/music/wallpapers are missing. I looked at the volumes mounted on the desktop, my Comunity Storage location says it's "/media/Windows Vista" , the Vista volume says "/media/Comunity Storage", the Recovery volume for Vista says "/media/Windows XP" and the XP volume says "/media/Windows XP_".

I would like these volumes to mount during boot: Comunity Storage, Windows Vista, Windows XP. I'd like the nautilus bookmarks, Rhythbox, and Desktop Drapes to point to the corresponding directories on Comunity Storage. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks

try mounting by UUID instad of by device name :confused:

I've seen this happen before. I guy I work with has about 6ish IDE hard drives in his tower, and after he moved to Ubuntu and put them in the fstab, they started playing musical mountpoints.

---

### Post by timbalisto on 2008-09-26
I tried  ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid/   here is what I got
```
total 0
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 2008-09-26 03:58 1744f2e0-7d33-4377-bcdc-173a67431e20 -> ../../sdb3
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 2008-09-26 03:58 24D237BFD2379450 -> ../../sdb2
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 2008-09-26 03:58 520DA7C9518099D8 -> ../../sda2
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 2008-09-26 03:58 6E3466C134668C41 -> ../../sda1
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 2008-09-26 03:58 7b0c42dd-b74a-4c87-9e51-12d5d0204d8e -> ../../sdb5
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 2008-09-26 03:58 E4583A81583A5292 -> ../../sdb1

```Is the long string of letters and numbers next to the volume name the uuid? and if so, where would I put them in fstab?
Thanks

---

### Post by timbalisto on 2008-09-29
bump

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-09-29
To change what you have in fstab to UUIDs:

Backup and open fstab for editing:
```

sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.bak
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab

```

The applicable fstab entries would look like this:
```

UUID=24D237BFD2379450 /media/Comunity\040Storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
UUID=E4583A81583A5292 /media/Windows\040XP ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
UUID=520DA7C9518099D8 /media/Windows\040Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```

Note: You mentioned changing the last digit to a "2". What that entry does is set the fsck disk checking flag for ext2/3 partitions. Since these are ntfs partitions, these should be set to 0 since fsck should not check them. (For ext2/3 partitions, setting the number to 2 means that the partition should be checked after partitions with a higher priority -1- ). "0" turns the check off entirely.

Note 2: Changing the fstab entries to UUID won't rearrange the partition mount points. If they are wrong (i.e. Vista showing up on XP, XP showing up on Vista, etc) you will need to move the *mountpoint* portion of the fstab entries around.
As an example, if the Vista and XP mounts were reversed, you would change the fstab to look like this:
```

[CODE]
UUID=E4583A81583A5292 **/media/Windows\040Vista** ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
UUID=520DA7C9518099D8 **/media/Windows\040XP** ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```
[/code]

---

### Post by timbalisto on 2008-09-29
That really didn't do much except give me a weird network error on shutdown, but everything was fine when I rebooted. The mount points were the same , but I think I have it figured out. I looked at the mount points and cross-referenced them with what gparted showed me, the mount points in /media/ are wrong (I don't know how to change that) but I was able to figure them out according to volume size and hard drive. And here is what I think it should be : 
/dev/sda1/      UUID: E4583A81583A5292    Vista Recovery(I don't want this to automount)
/dev/sda2/      UUID: 24D237BFD2379450   Windows Vista
/dev/sdb1/      UUID: 6E3466C134668C41   Windows Xp
/dev/sdb2/      UUID: 520DA7C9518099D8   Comunity Storage

I don't know how I would change the mount points in fstab to use /dev/ instead of /media/, or somehow change /media/ to reflect what I need.  Thanks for help

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-09-29
As I mentioned, the changes only reset the fstab to use UUIDs instead of "dev/sdXX" - it didn't rearrange your mount points. With the additional information you provided in Post #6, this is how your fstab should look:

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=1744f2e0-7d33-4377-bcdc-173a67431e20 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1

# Entry for /dev/sda1
UUID=E4583A81583A5292 /media/Vista\040Recovery ntfs-3g noauto,defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

# Entry for /dev/sda2
UUID=24D237BFD2379450 /media/Windows\040Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

# Entry for /dev/sdb1
UUID=6E3466C134668C41 /media/Windows\040XP ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

# Entry for /dev/sdb2
UUID=520DA7C9518099D8 /media/Comunity\040Storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0


# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7b0c42dd-b74a-4c87-9e51-12d5d0204d8e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0


```
With the above, sda1 (Vista Recovery) won't be automatically mounted.

A couple of notes: Community is misspelled in your mount point. That's OK as long as the mount point in /media is spelled the same way. ;-)  Also, in your suggested entries you spell it "Xp" vs "XP" in the fstab entry. Again, just make sure everything agrees.

---

### Post by timbalisto on 2008-09-29
Thanks!:D  Everything is as it should be thanks to you. Spelling, lol, I'm so used to Firefox auto-checking my spelling, I guess I should have checked. I'm usually A great speller.lol.
Thank you!

---

