---
title: "Clonzilla fails trying to make a backup copy of windows 7"
date: 2015-11-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by J_Me on 2015-11-25
It seems to be working up until the last few steps and then fails. Note that the destination partition is smaller than the source(windows) HDD but from what I understand you can do this as clonezilla removes any unused space before making the backup image.[br]1[/br] This is the /var/log/partclone.log file[br]1[/br] ```
 Partclone v0.2.51 http://partclone.org Starting to check image (-) The Image magic error. This file is NOT partclone Image 
``` And here's a full print out of the process. I'm trying to make a .img file of /dev/sdc onto /dev/sdb5. ```
 $ sudo clonezilla Clonezilla mode is device-image ocsroot device is local_dev Preparing the mount point /home/partimag... If you want to use USB device as a Clonezilla image repository, please\n * Insert USB device into this machine *now*\n * Wait for about 5 secs \n * Press Enter key \nso that the OS can detect the USB device and later we can mount it as /home/partimag. Press "Enter" to continue...... Informing the OS of partition table changes... Mounting local dev as /home/partimag... Excluding busy partition or disk... Getting /dev/sda6 info... Getting /dev/sdb1 info... Getting /dev/sdb2 info... Getting /dev/sdb3 info... Getting /dev/sdb5 info... Getting /dev/sdc1 info... Getting /dev/sdc2 info... Getting /dev/sdc3 info... Getting /dev/sdc4 info... /dev/sdb5 filesystem: ext4 mount -t auto -o noatime,nodiratime /dev/sdb5 /tmp/local-dev Scanning dir /tmp/local-dev... done! The file system disk space usage *****************************************************. Filesystem               Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on /dev/sda1                 29G   12G   17G  42% / proc                        0     0     0    - /proc sysfs                       0     0     0    - /sys none                     4.0K     0  4.0K   0% /sys/fs/cgroup none                        0     0     0    - /sys/fs/fuse/connections none                        0     0     0    - /sys/kernel/debug none                        0     0     0    - /sys/kernel/security udev                     3.9G  4.0K  3.9G   1% /dev devpts                      0     0     0    - /dev/pts tmpfs                    788M  1.5M  786M   1% /run none                     5.0M     0  5.0M   0% /run/lock                                                                                                       none                     3.9G   80K  3.9G   1% /run/shm none                     100M   20K  100M   1% /run/user none                        0     0     0    - /sys/fs/pstore binfmt_misc                 0     0     0    - /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc systemd                     0     0     0    - /sys/fs/cgroup/systemd /dev/sdb5                120G   62M  114G   1% /tmp/local-dev /tmp/local-dev/windows7  120G   62M  114G   1% /home/partimag *****************************************************. Press "Enter" to continue...... done! Setting the TERM as xterm Starting /usr/sbin/ocs-sr at 2015-11-25 13:57:39 GMT... Choose the mode for ocs-sr *****************************************************. Clonezilla image dir: /home/partimag *****************************************************. Excluding busy partition or disk... Selected device [sdc] found! The selected devices: sdc *****************************************************. PS. Next time you can run this command directly: /usr/sbin/ocs-sr -q2 -c -j2 -z1p -i 2000 -p choose savedisk win7_2015_11_25 sdc This command is also saved as this file name for later use if necessary: /tmp/ocs-win7_2015_11_25-2015-11-25-14-02 *****************************************************. Press "Enter" to continue...  Activating the partition info in /proc... done! Selected device [sdc] found! The selected devices: sdc Searching for data partition(s)... Excluding busy partition or disk... Unmounted partitions (including extended or swap): sdc1 sdc2 sdc3 sdc4 Collecting info..... done! Searching for swap partition(s)... Excluding busy partition or disk... Unmounted partitions (including extended or swap): sdc1 sdc2 sdc3 sdc4 Collecting info..... done! The data partition to be saved:   sdc1 sdc2 sdc3 sdc4 The swap partition to be saved:   Activating the partition info in /proc... done! Selected device [sdc1] found! Selected device [sdc2] found! Selected device [sdc3] found! Selected device [sdc4] found! The selected devices: sdc1 sdc2 sdc3 sdc4 Getting /dev/sdc1 info... Getting /dev/sdc2 info... Getting /dev/sdc3 info... Getting /dev/sdc4 info... *****************************************************. The following step is to save the hard disk/partition(s) on this machine as an image: *****************************************************. Machine: 4236PA8 sdc (320GB_HTS723232A7A364__HITACHI_HTS723232A7A364_E3834563HVT44N) sdc1 (15.8G_ntfs_RECOVERY(In_HTS723232A7A364_)_HITACHI_HTS723232A7A364_E3834563HVT44N) sdc2 (100M_ntfs_System_Reser(In_HTS723232A7A364_)_HITACHI_HTS723232A7A364_E3834563HVT44N) sdc3 (46.2G_ntfs_WINDOWS(In_HTS723232A7A364_)_HITACHI_HTS723232A7A364_E3834563HVT44N) sdc4 (236G_ext4(In_HTS723232A7A364_)_HITACHI_HTS723232A7A364_E3834563HVT44N) *****************************************************. -> "/home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25". Are you sure you want to continue? ? (y/n) y OK, let's do it!! Saving block devices info in /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/blkdev.list... Checking the integrity of partition table in the disk /dev/sdc...  Reading the partition table for /dev/sdc...RETVAL=0 *****************************************************. The first partition of disk /dev/sdc starts at 2048. Saving the hidden data between MBR (1st sector, i.e. 512 bytes) and 1st partition, which might be useful for some recovery tool, by: dd if=/dev/sdc of=/home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc-hidden-data-after-mbr skip=1 bs=512 count=2047 2047+0 records in 2047+0 records out 1048064 bytes (1.0 MB) copied, 0.0325364 s, 32.2 MB/s *****************************************************. done! Saving the MBR data for sdc... 1+0 records in 1+0 records out 512 bytes (512 B) copied, 0.0192285 s, 26.6 kB/s *****************************************************. *****************************************************. Starting saving /dev/sdc1 as /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc1.XXX... /dev/sdc1 filesystem: ntfs. *****************************************************. Checking the disk space...  *****************************************************. Use partclone with pigz to save the image. Image file will be split with size limit 2000 MB. *****************************************************. If this action fails or hangs, check: * Is the disk full ? *****************************************************. Run partclone: partclone.ntfs -z 10485760 -N -L /var/log/partclone.log -c -s /dev/sdc1 --output - | pigz -c --fast -b 1024 -p 16 | split -b 2000m - /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc1.ntfs-ptcl-img.gz. 2> /tmp/split_error.A0MXaB partclone.ntfs: invalid option -- 'z' partclone.ntfs v0.2.51 http://partclone.org Usage: partclone.ntfs [OPTIONS]     Efficiently clone to a image, device or standard output.      -o,  --output FILE      Output FILE     -O   --overwrite FILE   Output FILE, overwriting if exists     -W   --restore_raw_file create special raw file for loop device     -s,  --source FILE      Source FILE     -L,  --logfile FILE     Log FILE     -c,  --clone            Save to the special image format     -r,  --restore          Restore from the special image format     -b,  --dev-to-dev       Local device to device copy mode     -D,  --domain           Create ddrescue domain log from source device          --offset_domain=X  Add offset X (bytes) to domain log values     -R,  --rescue           Continue after disk read errors     -dX, --debug=X          Set the debug level to X = [0|1|2]     -C,  --no_check         Don't check device size and free space     -N,  --ncurses          Using Ncurses User Interface     -I,  --ignore_fschk     Ignore filesystem check     -i,  --ignore_crc       Ignore crc check error     -F,  --force            Force progress     -f,  --UI-fresh         Fresh times of progress     -m,  --max_block_cache  The used block will be cache until max number     -q,  --quiet                 Disable progress message     -B,  --no_block_detail  Show progress message without block detail     -v,  --version          Display partclone version     -h,  --help             Display this help cat: /var/log/partclone.log: No such file or directory Checking the disk space...  >>> Time elapsed:  secs (~  mins) *****************************************************. Finished saving /dev/sdc1 as /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc1.ntfs-ptcl-img.gz *****************************************************. *****************************************************. *****************************************************. Starting saving /dev/sdc2 as /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc2.XXX... /dev/sdc2 filesystem: ntfs. *****************************************************. Checking the disk space...  *****************************************************. Use partclone with pigz to save the image. Image file will be split with size limit 2000 MB. *****************************************************. If this action fails or hangs, check: * Is the disk full ? *****************************************************. Run partclone: partclone.ntfs -z 10485760 -N -L /var/log/partclone.log -c -s /dev/sdc2 --output - | pigz -c --fast -b 1024 -p 16 | split -b 2000m - /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc2.ntfs-ptcl-img.gz. 2> /tmp/split_error.0brBmH partclone.ntfs: invalid option -- 'z' partclone.ntfs v0.2.51 http://partclone.org Usage: partclone.ntfs [OPTIONS]     Efficiently clone to a image, device or standard output.      -o,  --output FILE      Output FILE     -O   --overwrite FILE   Output FILE, overwriting if exists     -W   --restore_raw_file create special raw file for loop device     -s,  --source FILE      Source FILE     -L,  --logfile FILE     Log FILE     -c,  --clone            Save to the special image format     -r,  --restore          Restore from the special image format     -b,  --dev-to-dev       Local device to device copy mode     -D,  --domain           Create ddrescue domain log from source device          --offset_domain=X  Add offset X (bytes) to domain log values     -R,  --rescue           Continue after disk read errors     -dX, --debug=X          Set the debug level to X = [0|1|2]     -C,  --no_check         Don't check device size and free space     -N,  --ncurses          Using Ncurses User Interface     -I,  --ignore_fschk     Ignore filesystem check     -i,  --ignore_crc       Ignore crc check error     -F,  --force            Force progress     -f,  --UI-fresh         Fresh times of progress     -m,  --max_block_cache  The used block will be cache until max number     -q,  --quiet                 Disable progress message     -B,  --no_block_detail  Show progress message without block detail     -v,  --version          Display partclone version     -h,  --help             Display this help cat: /var/log/partclone.log: No such file or directory Checking the disk space...  >>> Time elapsed:  secs (~  mins) *****************************************************. Finished saving /dev/sdc2 as /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc2.ntfs-ptcl-img.gz *****************************************************. *****************************************************. *****************************************************. Starting saving /dev/sdc3 as /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc3.XXX... /dev/sdc3 filesystem: ntfs. *****************************************************. Checking the disk space...  *****************************************************. Use partclone with pigz to save the image. Image file will be split with size limit 2000 MB. *****************************************************. If this action fails or hangs, check: * Is the disk full ? *****************************************************. Run partclone: partclone.ntfs -z 10485760 -N -L /var/log/partclone.log -c -s /dev/sdc3 --output - | pigz -c --fast -b 1024 -p 16 | split -b 2000m - /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc3.ntfs-ptcl-img.gz. 2> /tmp/split_error.VqbJxl partclone.ntfs: invalid option -- 'z' partclone.ntfs v0.2.51 http://partclone.org Usage: partclone.ntfs [OPTIONS]     Efficiently clone to a image, device or standard output.      -o,  --output FILE      Output FILE     -O   --overwrite FILE   Output FILE, overwriting if exists     -W   --restore_raw_file create special raw file for loop device     -s,  --source FILE      Source FILE     -L,  --logfile FILE     Log FILE     -c,  --clone            Save to the special image format     -r,  --restore          Restore from the special image format     -b,  --dev-to-dev       Local device to device copy mode     -D,  --domain           Create ddrescue domain log from source device          --offset_domain=X  Add offset X (bytes) to domain log values     -R,  --rescue           Continue after disk read errors     -dX, --debug=X          Set the debug level to X = [0|1|2]     -C,  --no_check         Don't check device size and free space     -N,  --ncurses          Using Ncurses User Interface     -I,  --ignore_fschk     Ignore filesystem check     -i,  --ignore_crc       Ignore crc check error     -F,  --force            Force progress     -f,  --UI-fresh         Fresh times of progress     -m,  --max_block_cache  The used block will be cache until max number     -q,  --quiet                 Disable progress message     -B,  --no_block_detail  Show progress message without block detail     -v,  --version          Display partclone version     -h,  --help             Display this help cat: /var/log/partclone.log: No such file or directory Checking the disk space...  >>> Time elapsed:  secs (~  mins) *****************************************************. Finished saving /dev/sdc3 as /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc3.ntfs-ptcl-img.gz *****************************************************. *****************************************************. *****************************************************. Starting saving /dev/sdc4 as /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc4.XXX... /dev/sdc4 filesystem: ext4. *****************************************************. Checking the disk space...  *****************************************************. Use partclone with pigz to save the image. Image file will be split with size limit 2000 MB. *****************************************************. If this action fails or hangs, check: * Is the disk full ? *****************************************************. Run partclone: partclone.ext4 -z 10485760 -N -L /var/log/partclone.log -c -s /dev/sdc4 --output - | pigz -c --fast -b 1024 -p 16 | split -b 2000m - /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc4.ext4-ptcl-img.gz. 2> /tmp/split_error.xD74o1 partclone.ext4: invalid option -- 'z' partclone.extfs v0.2.51 http://partclone.org Usage: partclone.extfs [OPTIONS]     Efficiently clone to a image, device or standard output.      -o,  --output FILE      Output FILE     -O   --overwrite FILE   Output FILE, overwriting if exists     -W   --restore_raw_file create special raw file for loop device     -s,  --source FILE      Source FILE     -L,  --logfile FILE     Log FILE     -c,  --clone            Save to the special image format     -r,  --restore          Restore from the special image format     -b,  --dev-to-dev       Local device to device copy mode     -D,  --domain           Create ddrescue domain log from source device          --offset_domain=X  Add offset X (bytes) to domain log values     -R,  --rescue           Continue after disk read errors     -dX, --debug=X          Set the debug level to X = [0|1|2]     -C,  --no_check         Don't check device size and free space     -N,  --ncurses          Using Ncurses User Interface     -I,  --ignore_fschk     Ignore filesystem check     -i,  --ignore_crc       Ignore crc check error     -F,  --force            Force progress     -f,  --UI-fresh         Fresh times of progress     -m,  --max_block_cache  The used block will be cache until max number     -q,  --quiet                 Disable progress message     -B,  --no_block_detail  Show progress message without block detail     -v,  --version          Display partclone version     -h,  --help             Display this help cat: /var/log/partclone.log: No such file or directory Checking the disk space...  >>> Time elapsed:  secs (~  mins) *****************************************************. Finished saving /dev/sdc4 as /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc4.ext4-ptcl-img.gz *****************************************************. Saving hardware info by lshw... Saving DMI info...         Saving PCI info... Saving package info... End of saveparts job for image /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25. *****************************************************. This image was saved successfully: win7_2015_11_25 End of savedisk job for image win7_2015_11_25. Start checking the saved image win7_2015_11_25 if restorable... Setting the TERM as xterm The image to be checked: win7_2015_11_25 This is a whole disk image, saved from harddrive: sdc The partition to be checked: sdc1 sdc2 sdc3 sdc4 *****************************************************. Checking the partition table in the image "win7_2015_11_25"... Partition table file for disk was found: sdc *****************************************************. Checking the swap partition info in the image "win7_2015_11_25"... Finding swap partition(s) in MBR table /home/partimag/win7_2015_11_25/sdc-pt.sf... *****************************************************. Checking the MBR in the image "win7_2015_11_25"... MBR file for this disk was found: sdc *****************************************************. Checking the partition sdc1 in the image "win7_2015_11_25"... *****************************************************. Partclone fail, please check /var/log/partclone.log ! This partition in the image is broken: sdc1 Press "Enter" to continue...... *****************************************************. Checking the partition sdc2 in the image "win7_2015_11_25"... *****************************************************. Partclone fail, please check /var/log/partclone.log ! This partition in the image is broken: sdc2 Press "Enter" to continue...... *****************************************************. Checking the partition sdc3 in the image "win7_2015_11_25"... *****************************************************. Partclone fail, please check /var/log/partclone.log ! This partition in the image is broken: sdc3 Press "Enter" to continue...... *****************************************************. Checking the partition sdc4 in the image "win7_2015_11_25"... *****************************************************. Partclone fail, please check /var/log/partclone.log ! This partition in the image is broken: sdc4 Press "Enter" to continue...... *****************************************************. Broken partition images were found, or some of them are not checkable in this image: win7_2015_11_25 Press "Enter" to continue...... Summary of image checking: ========================== Partition table file for disk was found: sdc MBR file for this disk was found: sdc This partition in the image is broken: sdc1 This partition in the image is broken: sdc2 This partition in the image is broken: sdc3 This partition in the image is broken: sdc4 Broken partition images were found, or some of them are not checkable in this image: win7_2015_11_25 ========================== ***************************************************** ***************************************************** Checking if udevd rules have to be restored... This program is not started by Clonezilla server, so skip notifying it the job is done. Finished! Now syncing - flush filesystem buffers... Now you can choose to: (0) Poweroff (1) Reboot (2) Enter command line prompt [2] 
```For some reason using code tags puts the printout on one single line. I hope you can understand it.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-11-25
Clonezilla needs a target device that is exactly the same size or bigger. It does not work with a destination device is smaller than the source(windows) HDD.

But you can create a compressed image (a directory with some compressed files), which is smaller.

---

### Post by J_Me on 2015-11-25
> Clonezilla needs a target device that is exactly the same size or bigger Do you mean if I was to create a clone of the hard drive. I'm not trying to clone the hard drive but make a backup.img file of windows. And yes compression is needed. there is no man page for clonezilla on kubuntu 1404 what commands do I need to put into the terminal.[br]1[/br] Also from that line of text I posted above this is where clonezilla starts to fail. 'Partclone fail, please check /var/log/partclone.log ! -- This partition in the image is broken: sdc3 -- Press "Enter" to continue......'[br]1[/br] Thanks

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-11-25
It is possible to use Clonezilla for partitions or whole disk drives. It is rather easy to clone or make an image of a whole disk drive.

It is difficult to clone or make an image of a partition that will really work when restored. The target partition must be big enough, and I think it should also have the same partition number as the source partition. Furthermore there are other data outside the partition, that {are/might be} necessary in order to boot Windows.

The best way to use Clonezilla is to download an iso file directly and make a boot CD/DVD/USB drive.

[clonezilla.org](clonezilla.org)

---

### Post by J_Me on 2015-11-25
> It is rather easy to clone or make an image of a whole disk drive. Well not for me. Before I tried using clonezilla I looked at some tutorials on youtube to make sure I had things straight, [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LS6VhLDw-io](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LS6VhLDw-io)this one clearly shows the person making a backup image of his 120gb SSD to a 64GB thumb drive and then restoring that image from the 64GB thumb drive to the 120GB SSD. The way I understand it is that as long as your restoring the image to an equivalent or greater drive(of the original) your good(this is due to mount points and such).[br]1[/br] > The best way to use Clonezilla is to download an iso file directly and make a boot CD/DVD/USB drive.This I don't understand, why would Ubuntu have clonezilla in the repositories if it did not work.[br]1[/br]

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-11-25
Most of the time you get a newer version of Clonezilla directly from Clonezilla. And it is tested by the Clonezilla developer in its own system. I prefer the 'stable' version from [clonezilla.org](clonezilla.org).

> The way I understand it is that as long as your restoring the image to an equivalent or greater drive(of the original) your good(this is due to mount points and such).

This is true. The compressed image is smaller than the source drive (due to compression and also to the fact that unused blocks are skipped).

---

### Post by J_Me on 2015-11-25
Thanks for your help sudodus I appreciates it but I think there is more to this than clonezilla running of a live usb. Will come back later.

---

### Post by furtom on 2015-11-25
> **J_Me said:**
>  This I don't understand, why would Ubuntu have clonezilla in the repositories if it did not work.[br]1[/br]

I think, the version of Clonzilla you install from the repositories is the enterprise version, meant to clone/restore disks over a network, etc.

What most single users want is the iso. you have to use a boot medium to back up your partitions unmounted.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2015-11-26
indeed. to image live boot is best as with normal boot some files can be reserved by system/locked etc. 

for a simpler interface to same program you can use RedoBackup. But clonezilla is fine as well. 

For backing up only parts of the system (like home and such) you can use luckybackup or duplicity or Areca or Backintime or many other GUI apps out there.

---

