---
title: "2.6.31-20 kernel freezes"
date: 2010-04-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Objekt on 2010-04-14
Ubuntu 9.10 with the 2.6.31-20-generic kernel was my default for a long time.  Since I reinstalled GRUB2 after a brief time using legacy GRUB, however, 2.6.31-20 just locks up the machine.

If I choose the 2.6.31-19 kernel from the GRUB2 menu, things work as expected.  If I choose the 2.6.31-20 kernel, I see the Ubuntu splash logo, then the login screen only briefly - then the screen goes blank.  After that, nothing happens.  I've let the system sit for hours, but it doesn't do anything further.

I have already run update-grub, so GRUB2 definitely has the most current info on my Ubuntu install.

I can post results of the bootinfo script, if it would help.

---

### Post by Objekt on 2010-04-16
[s]Oooookay...For some reason I can now boot with the 2.6.31-20 kernel, no problem.  I didn't do a thing; maybe the fix slipped in amongst some updates.  Solved, I guess.[/s]

Nevermind, that was a one-time thing.  I rebooted again and it froze up like it was doing before.

I did pick up a few more details on what's happening.  What I see is:

-Very brief "GRUB loading" message;
-The "pulsating white Ubuntu logo" for a few seconds
-Lots of text scrolling by.  No obvious error messages.  Sometimes, the system will do a fsck before mounting one of my volumes, saying it hasn't been fsck'd in a while.
-A few seconds later, the screen goes blank.

-Nothing more happens.  I've let it sit for hours, but nothing further happens.  The system will not respond to any key combinations, except the 3-finger salute, which just reboots it.

I also tried booting 2.6.31-20 in "recovery" mode.  I see a lot of text scrolling by, and eventually get to a text-mode screen offering me several options (resume normal booting, etc.).  But before I can choose one of the options, the screen gets corrupted with oddly-spaced error messages of some sort.  I can't read them because the spacing is all messed up.

Pressing alt+F2 gets me to a terminal where I can at least log in, in CLI-only mode.  I can manually start the GUI with "startx" or get to the Gnome login screen with "sudo gdm."  But when I log in, things are not normal.  No sound.  The Pulseaudio daemon will not start, and when I go to sound preferences, it shows no sound hardware at all (in reality I have 2 sound devices).

Something is seriously messed up somewhere, but I don't know where to start fixing or how.

---

