---
title: "3.1 Kernel lost Touchpad"
date: 2011-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by werewolves on 2011-10-31
I have read that laptop battery life is better under the 3.1 kernel, so I googled up the Oneiric 3.1 .deb packages and installed them.  Install and reboot went fine, and I had the 3.1 kernel.  Unfortunately my laptop no longer recognized my touchpad as a touchpad, just a mouse (no two-finger scroll, no tap to select, etc.)

Any ideas how to have the best of both worlds?

Thanks

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-10-31
I think you are in uncharted waters there. That is the kernel in 12.04 IIRC. I'm not at my pc just now so I could be wrong.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-10-31
If you want the best of both worlds, I think you should consider compiling your own kernel. That way you can cherry pick which modules you want, disable any you don't, and configure the kernel to your liking.

Of course, the down side is that you'll need to keep this custom kernel updated yourself, and any problems you experience may not be as easy to diagnose.

---

### Post by werewolves on 2011-10-31
OK, well I don't feel much like rolling a custom kernel, so I'll just hold tight.  Thanks guys.

---

### Post by Bobhuber on 2011-10-31
Its Onieric but it does have quite a few problems even compiling it from source. DKMS didn't load Virtual Box correctly on my compiled version and the prepackaged .deb's still haven't applied the logitech webcam patch 
that works great when applied to the 3.0 Kernel.

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2011-10-31
Linux Kernel 3.1 Released, Adds Support for NFC Chips
from what i been reading sounds good:popcorn:
Yes! After ten release candidates, Linus Torvalds marked a few minutes ago (October 24th) the Linux kernel 3.1 sources as final/stable and ready for immediate download.

Among the new features included in Linux kernel 3.1 we can mention OpenRISC opensource CPU support, various slab allocator improvements, writeback throttling improvements, new iSCSI implementation, Near-Field Communication chips support and Wii Controller support.

Linux kernel 3.1 provides better power management via the new cpupowerutils userspace utility, the EXT3 filesystem gets the filesystem barriers enabled by default, and lots of drivers were added and updated.

While there's no official announcement from Linus Torvalds, we can tell you that the new Linux kernel 3.1 brings improvements for the Intel Ivy Bridge chips, support for Cedar Trail, GMA500 enhancements, and much more.



[http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Kernel-3-1-Released-Adds-Support-for-NFC-Chips-229562.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/Linux-Kernel-3-1-Released-Adds-Support-for-NFC-Chips-229562.shtml)

I like the sound of this
Linux kernel 3.1 provides better power management

---

