---
title: "What's the command for ghostview?"
date: 2010-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by king_wwang on 2010-06-01
Dear all,
I mean I've used ghostview years ago on an AIX machine. But I could not find it on ubuntu (though I have found ghostscript in ubuntu) nor the information in which package the program is. I used "ghostview / gsview / gv --help", none of them is known. Could you give me hints as how the command should be? Thanks!
k.w.wang

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-06-01
> **king_wwang said:**
> Dear all,
I mean I've used ghostview years ago on an AIX machine. But I could not find it on ubuntu (though I have found ghostscript in ubuntu) nor the information in which package the program is. I used "ghostview / gsview / gv --help", none of them is known. Could you give me hints as how the command should be? Thanks!
k.w.wang

```
man -k ghost
```

---

### Post by king_wwang on 2010-06-01
> **dcstar said:**
> ```
man -k ghost
```
 Thank you!

---

### Post by gmargo on 2010-06-01
Install the **gv** package.

Description: PostScript and PDF viewer for X
 gv is a comfortable viewer of PostScript and PDF files for the X
 Window System. It uses the ghostscript PostScript interpreter
 and is based on the classic X front-end for gs, ghostview, which
 it has replaced now.

Several packages can view postscript:
```

$ apt-cache search postscript-viewer
evince - Document (postscript, pdf) viewer
ghostscript - The GPL Ghostscript PostScript/PDF interpreter
okular - document viewer for KDE 4
gv - PostScript and PDF viewer for X

```

---

### Post by Flos Headford on 2010-08-25
It's on;y a personal opinion, of course, but I think gv is the worst front-end for ghoscript I've ever come across: it decides that the (almost universal) convention for a vertical scroll-bar on the right is not good enough, and uses an unlabelled "radar-view" box on the left (which, most unusefully when some poor sap who opens gv, appears with the slider *halfway down the page* !?!). There are no conversion utitlities on offer, and the meus are unhelpful and very limited. I thought (and hoped) that it had died. What it's doing in a major repository, I have no idea. gsview, on the other hand, was quick, intuitive, useful and versatile. I suppose that's why I'm struggling to find it.
Phil Headford

---

### Post by Flos Headford on 2010-08-25
I'd advocate that you eschew gv. If you just want to look at something, it's fine, but it's presentation is odd, and you have no opportunity to convert to other formats. I'm desperately trying to find an old version of ghostview or gsview, which performed magnificently.
Phil Headford

---

### Post by Flos Headford on 2010-09-24
I found out how to install gsview - it requires libgtk-1.2.so.0, for which I found I had to use all three links below:
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/en/jaunty/libgtk1.2-common](http://packages.ubuntu.com/en/jaunty/libgtk1.2-common)
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/en/jaunty/libglib1.2ldbl](http://packages.ubuntu.com/en/jaunty/libglib1.2ldbl)
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/en/jaunty/libgtk1.2](http://packages.ubuntu.com/en/jaunty/libgtk1.2)
On each page, look for the table and select "all" or "i386" under the "Architecture" heading. (There are AMD64 options, too).
Tahnks to macman for that info.
I then search for and found a gsview_4.8-2_i386.rpm (4.8-1 is easier to find -try
[http://www.ccp14.ac.uk/ccp/ccp14/ftp-mirror/ghostscript/pub/mirrors/ghost/ghostgum/](http://www.ccp14.ac.uk/ccp/ccp14/ftp-mirror/ghostscript/pub/mirrors/ghost/ghostgum/)
I downloaded that, converted it with alien, then double-clicked the resulting gsview_4.8-2_i386.deb to use the Gdebi installer.
gsview is then found at /usr/bin.
This is such a useful viewer for PDFs and PostScript files (and a convertor to a multitude of sensible graphics formats), that I am amazed it is missing from the supported repositories.
Phil

---

### Post by LeManchot on 2010-10-12
Hi   Thanks for yours explanations! I try to install gsview for weeks! (instead of gv of course)  When I installed the .deb generated by Alien I had only the gsview icon to the menu and now, with your help, everything al right.

---

