---
title: "files generated by applications read and write protected"
date: 2016-12-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by phileconte on 2016-12-22
Hi,

my Asus Zenbook has the following configuration: 
- system and home on the SSD
- data in an ext4 partition on the HD
- I'm the owner of all the partition, group and others can read, write and erase
the etc/fstab is as follows
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
# / was on /dev/sdb5 during installation
UUID=654c99a4-1555-45ed-b89a-53d7192fd92e /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /boot/efi was on /dev/sdb1 during installation
UUID=6A77-A540  /boot/efi       vfat    umask=0077      0       1
# swap was on /dev/sdb6 during installation
UUID=63133b82-d582-46c6-9bd1-91ac12ad3bb9 none            swap    sw              0       0
# sda
#LABEL=data /media/philippe               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0      
#/dev/sda1 /media/philippe/data2 ext4 rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,data=ordered 0 1
/dev/sda1 /media/philippe/data2 ext4    defaults    0   2
```
However, when any application generate a file like a LibreOffice .odt file, an error occurs 
"access refused, impossible to access the file because privileges of the owner are insufficient" (personal translation)
when I check the generated file, I'm the owner but owner group and other cannot read, write or erase.
I have no idea to fix this problem, any help would be very appreciated. 
Regards

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2016-12-22
You will likely find that if you make a subdirectory and ensure that it is owned by you, then creating files in there will work just fine.

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-12-22
If you open a terminal window and type umask, what does it show?

---

### Post by phileconte on 2016-12-22
Thanks for your two responses

Herman,
in fact, it's possible to save a file in my home folder and move it in the right folder located in the ext4 partition but it's a a little complicated. My wish is to directly save the file in the right folder.

Keith,
umask returns 0002

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-12-22
Where are all these files being saved?  Are they all going under your home directory?

---

### Post by phileconte on 2016-12-23
Keith,

all theses files are saved in the ext4 partition, home directory is virtually empty.

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-12-23
> **phileconte said:**
> 

However, when any application generate a file like a LibreOffice .odt file, an error occurs 
"access refused, impossible to access the file because privileges of the owner are insufficient" (personal translation)
when I check the generated file, I'm the owner but owner group and other cannot read, write or erase.


Please explain this a little more.  Are you able to create files or not?  Is the problem that you can't create them or that you can but they have the wrong permissions afterwards?  Some examples would help.  Please post the output from these commands
```
ls -l /media/philippe
ls -l /media/philippe/data
```

I find /media/userid to be a strange place to permanently mount an internal hard drive (this IS an internal drive, right?).  That path is usually used for removable media.

---

### Post by phileconte on 2016-12-23
Hi,

in fact, you are right, applications create files but with the wrong permission. Here are the results of the commands:
[HTML]hilippe@philippe-UX310UA:/media/philippe/data2$ ls -l /media/philippe/data2
total 4
drwxrwxrwx+ 6 philippe philippe 4096 déc.  22 14:00 Dropbox
philippe@philippe-UX310UA:/media/philippe/data2$ ls -l /media/philippe
total 12
drwxrwxrwx+ 3 philippe philippe 4096 déc.  18 15:51 data
drwxrwxrwx+ 2 root     root     4096 déc.  12 17:05 data1
drwsrwsrwt+ 3 philippe philippe 4096 déc.  12 17:11 data2
philippe@philippe-UX310UA:/media/philippe/data2$ 
hilippe@philippe-UX310UA:/media/philippe/data2$ ls -l /media/philippe/data2
total 4
drwxrwxrwx+ 6 philippe philippe 4096 déc.  22 14:00 Dropbox
philippe@philippe-UX310UA:/media/philippe/data2$ 
[/HTML]
In order to explain the problem, I have created a folder test, have manually copied a file (Argu revu 11_12_07.doc) and generated another with LIbreOffice (projet etude soins pall et urgences.doc)

[HTML]philippe@philippe-UX310UA:/media/philippe/data2/Dropbox/Philippe/test$ ls -l
total 1140
-rwxrwxrwx+ 1 philippe philippe 1092608 janv. 16  2008 Argu revu 11_12_07.doc
----r-----+ 1 philippe philippe   35328 déc.  22 20:35 projet etude soins pall et urgences.doc
[/HTML]
For your last sentence, I have tried to mount the ext4 partition which is an internal HD but, as you can see, I'm not familiar with fstab. 

Thanks

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-12-23
Are you having the same problem with other applications than Libreoffice?  What do the permissions look like if you create a new Libreoffice document and save it in your home folder instead of under /media/philippe?

Please open the tools menu in Libreoffice, select options, and then select Paths under LibreOffice and post a screen print of it.  For comparison, they look like this on my system:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]272821[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by phileconte on 2016-12-24
Hi Keith,

thanks for our response. I'm very busy until Monday (Emergency medicine...), I will investigate your propositions as quickly as I can.

---

### Post by phileconte on 2016-12-27
Hi Keith,
If I create a new LibreOffice document and save it in 
my home directory, permissions are -rw-rw-r-- 
media/philippe/Dropbox/Philippe/test permission are -rw-rw-r-- 
media/philippe/Dropbox/Philippe/afmu permission are ----r-----+
however, afmsu hax drwxrwxrwx+ permission, test drwxrwxrwx and home drwxr-xr-x , it's perhaps the reason why
Same problem occurs with other application such as avidemux. Here is the screen print of LibreOffice paths
Thanks for your help[IMG]/home/philippe/Images/Screenshot.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-12-27
This is kind of a mess.  The + at the end of the permission string means that something called an Access Control List (ACL) is being used.  /media/userid is apparently created with an acl by default.  /media/userid is owned by root and normally non-root users would not be able to access files under that directory except that ACLs allow it.

ACLs can be handy on multi-user systems.  A file or directory can normally have only one owner and one group, but ACLs allow multiple users and groups to each have customized access to the file or directory.  On a single-user system ACL just adds an extra layer of permissions to confuse you.

I think the solution is to mount your /sda drive under your home folder and not under /media/philippe.  Create a directory under /home/philippe and then change your fstab entry from
```
/dev/sda1 /media/philippe/data2 ext4    defaults    0   2
```
to
```
/dev/sda1 /home/philippe/newdirectoryname ext4    defaults    0   2
```

Once you have /dev/sda1 mounted under your home directory, you may have to remove the ACLs from the directories under it using
```
setfacl -b directoryname
```

If any of the directories under /home/philippe/newdirectoryname are owned by root, you can do a 
```
sudo chown philippe:philippe dirname
```
If any of the files or directories have the wrong permissions
```
chmod 775 fileordirname
```

Once you get rid of the ACLs and all the files and directories under /sda1 have the correct permissions, you shouldn't have any further problems.

---

### Post by phileconte on 2016-12-28
Hi Keith,

I have done all your instructions and that works ! I don't understand how this mess has been setup. 

Clearly, I would not be able to do that without your help, Thank you very much for all !

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-12-28
I'm glad to hear it.  I assume that new files created by your applications are now being created with the usual -rwxrwxr-x permissions.  If so, please mark this thread solved to make the people running the forums happy. :)

---

