---
title: "[15.04]Unable to reboot"
date: 2015-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kastagir on 2015-05-01
My laptop (Asus K55VJ) stopped rebooting. When I want to close system a window with two options appear: Restart and Shutdown.

After clicking Shutdown it shutdowns (immediately thanks to systemd :)) which is expected result. After clicking Restart it also shutdowns which I consider a bug.
It worked with all versions from 13.10 to 14.10.
Using:
```
sudo systemctl reboot
sudo reboot
```
has the same outcome.

Edit1: I think it has something to do with Intel/Nvidia/Optimus/prime/hybrid thing. Never used dedicated card before (always bbswitched to off) with Ubuntu, only with Windows 7. When I switched to nvidia card (using prime-indicator) and restart ok. Next I switched back to Intel and restarted again without problems. I tried switching from intel to nvidia, back to intel then restarting and everytime it worked. 

In short words if system starts with Intel card chosen I can't reboot otherwise when system starts with nvidia card chosen rebooting is posible.
Anyone had similar issues with Vivid?

Edit2: Adding **acpi=off** to kernel boot options solves this problem but brings in a lot more issues.
Edit3: Definitely nvidia-prime issue. After removing nvidia-prime my laptop started rebooting properly.

**Problem is solved. I have to enable nvidia card before shutdown.**
```
sudo systemctl enable nvidia-prime.service
```

---

### Post by marien-kris on 2015-12-04
I had the same problem on ubuntu 15.10 and your last command worked for me:

```

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]sudo systemctl enable nvidia-prime.service
[/FONT][/COLOR]
```

---

