---
title: "My 12.04 File Server keeps creating new network shares because its dismounting drives"
date: 2012-06-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by WolvenSpectre on 2012-06-24
first of all sorry for the loooong post. Its complicated.

I am a very experienced windows user and a relative novice and tinkerer with Linux. I have been using it for a few years though and now 12.04 is giving me nothing but grief.

I have set up a Samba share network on my Ubuntu box to use it as a file server and also my torrent box on my network.

My BitTorrent client of choice is Vuze whose menus don't work with 12.04's app menu at the top of the screen, so I drop Guake and use a sudo workaround I found online to give the app its menus back and all was right again (other than the desktop I am using for this box is OLD and really doesn't care for the newer Ubuntu distros and I have to look into a lighter one).

Then spontaneously the operating system would create new network shares with and underscore at the name. When I examined them, they had all the files I was seeding or was already storing on my box and the drive that had the proper name would have some of my latest torrent files and stored files, which I couldn't do anything with unless I went superuser domain on it or in the case of the torrent files use Vuze to move them.

It kept happening to one drive then another (but never to the file system drive) then it finally dawned on me.

Ubuntu was dismounting the drives randomly and Vuze and my network Samba shares were creating new network shares in /Media using the name of the drive that was supposed to be mounted thus renaming the old drive's Samba Share with an underscore and breaking all my network maps.

So my question is this...

1)How do I get 12.04 to mount my BLEEPING drives at boot and NEVER BLEEPING DISMOUNT THEM even if it means the machine will DIE ?!? ](*,)(sorry this has been more than a little frustrating)

2)How do I disable this creating a new share/renaming the old behaviour?

Any help will be appreciated and keep in mind my command line skills are atrophied and on Linux are almost non existent to start with.

---

