---
title: "10.04 won't automount all cd's/dvd's"
date: 2012-04-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by euphoric_anomaly on 2012-04-11
I have a problem where Ubuntu 10.04 will recognize/auto-mount some cd-r's, cd-rw's etc, but not others.

For example, the cd-rw I burned the Ubunto ISO file on, it reads/mounts perfectly.
Another example would be a CD-R with mp3's burned on it, this is where it fails.
It gives me no error messages what-so-ever, it's as if the CD-ROM itself just doesn't want to work. I've swapped out at least 5 different cdrom drives and the problem exists.

I looked through the forums here and disabled my floppy drive in the bios, although Ubuntu still shows a "floppy0" drive under "places", yet can't mount it because I have completely removed the 3.5" floppy (it's a dell optiplex gx280, go figure..lol).

I just can't understand why it can mount some discs and not others, could it be because I burned the mp3 discs with windows? Maybe it's not recognizing the file system on the disc?

What other options are there? I love Ubuntu but this is dampening my enjoyment of the system.

Thanks

ps -- I also ran gconf-editor and made sure that mount/auto-mount were on under the Nautilus preferences menu.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2012-04-11
euphoric_anomaly

What function do you have selected for CD Audio, Music Player, etc.? 
Nautilus/edit/preferences/Media tab

Is it Rhythmbox?

You may also need to install the [codecs]("http://shibuvarkala.blogspot.com/2010/05/how-to-enable-ubuntu-1004-lucid-linx.html") - for MP3's.

---

### Post by euphoric_anomaly on 2012-04-26
God I feel like an idiot. I was inserting DVD-R's into my CD-RW thinking that it could read DVD's.. woops...guess this problem was my fault.. hahaha

---

