---
title: "Display/Graphics Resolution Problems"
date: 2008-08-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ttk1opc on 2008-08-08
New install, old video card, Card is a 3Dlabs Permedia2. Ubuntu seems to recognize this fine, but I am stuck at 800x600 and what seems like maybe 16bit color. I go to other>screen & graphics > the monitor is plug and play, so I choose my monitor dell e773c, gives option for other resolutions. No matter what I pick, if i select test, I get configuration test failed.

I have tried dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg all I get is a title that says "Configuring xserver-xorg" in red and a red block at the bottom of terminal. I am lost at this point. Any help or guidance would be appreciated.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2008-08-08
Googling "3dlabs permedia2 resolution" in [http://www.google.com/linux](http://www.google.com/linux) brings up [this LinuxQuestions page]("http://www.linuxquestions.org/hcl/showproduct.php/product/1052/cat/179"), so in theory you should be able to get up to 1280x1024 with that card.

I don't understand why 'dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg' is hanging like that. Post the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Post them within [BBCode]("http://ubuntuforums.org/misc.php?do=bbcode") [noparse]```

```[/noparse] tags if you can, otherwise the formatting comes out wrong, making it awkward to read. By adding some extra lines in the Monitor and Screen sections, hopefully you should be able to get the resolution you need. Also, post the display resolution of your Dell monitor and also the range of horizontal and vertical refresh rates that it supports. These figures will be in the manual somewhere. Then I or someone will be able to suggest the extra code to go into xorg.conf.

By the way, if you haven't come across Google Linux yet, why not bookmark it now? I find it very useful.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-08-08
OPen sysnaptic and make sure that the driver is actually installed for it - it should be this one apparently

> xserver-xorg-video-glint

IF you are using hardy then I'm pretty sure that dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg doesn't do much with video anymore - xfix in the recovery menu might help more.

---

### Post by ttk1opc on 2008-08-08
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection


```

Oh and I have found google/linux (very helpful) tried it, just wrong keywords I guess.

Also, I don't know if it is related, but I don't get a splash screen on startup, just a blinking cursor, not a big deal, but thought I would add that.

---

### Post by ttk1opc on 2008-08-08
Oh and xserver-xorg-video-glint is installed.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2008-08-08
First, did you try 'xfix' as forestpixie suggested?

You didn't post your monitor specs, so it's difficult to advise. Do **not** use the HorizSync and VertRefresh values I have given. Use the ranges for your monitor. And I've had to guess that your monitor has a 4x3 screen ratio with a 1280x1024 optimal resolution. If not, those Modes may not be appropriate.

Backup xorg.conf first:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```Then open it with gedit as root:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```These are my suggestions for the two sections that need editing:

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
    HorizSync 31.5-55 ###DO NOT USE THESE VALUES
    VertRefresh 40-70 ###DO NOT USE THESE VALUES
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"

    DefaultColorDepth 16
    
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth 8
        Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" "480x360" "320x240"
    EndSubsection
    
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth 15
        Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" "480x360" "320x240"
    EndSubsection
    
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth 16
        Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" "480x360" "320x240
    
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth 24
        Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" "480x360" "320x240"
    EndSubsection
EndSection
```You could also try different values in the DefaultColorDepth line.

If that doesn't work, it may be worth while trying the vesa video driver instead of the glint one. That would require a further edit of xorg.conf. I can tell you how if need be.

As far as the splash screen is concerned, what happens exactly? Do you get any scrolling text, or just the blinking cursor between the grub menu and the login window?

**Edit**: by the way - after editing xorg.conf, you need to restart the xserver for the new configuration to take effect. Press ctrl-alt-backspace and log in again, or log out and in from the menu.

---

### Post by ttk1opc on 2008-08-08
Ya I tried the Xfix, it does nothing, It goes fast so it was hard to read, but I think there was an error, something about look custom, or something about custom, and I think it wouldn't make changes , I don't know. I'll try editing xorg. My monitor is just a Dell e773c its CRT 4:3 I imagine 60hz any idea on what to use for the vertical horizontal?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2008-08-08
> **ttk1opc said:**
> I imagine 60hz any idea on what to use for the vertical horizontal?

As I said before - look in the manual that came with the monitor. It might not be on paper, but a pdf file on a CD. If you get these values wrong you could be in danger of damaging the monitor. Although good ones usually give you an out of range error it's best (and cheaper) to be safe.

---

### Post by ttk1opc on 2008-08-08
Alright, I edited xorg.conf, with these settings I found through google, could be wrong.

```

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Monitor Vendor"
ModelName "DELL E773c"
DisplaySize 320 240
HorizSync 30.0 &#8722; 70.0
VertRefresh 50.0 &#8722; 160.0
Option "dpms"
EndSection

```

When restarting xserver this results in a shell console with very large text, and won't resume. Have to use Xfix to get it working again, which just reverts back to the xorg.conf that I originally posted.

Also, back to splash, what I get is on GRUB startup graphics initialization failed, then the menu loads, and then I get just a curson up to login window.

Also, this computer has onboard video, which says is disabled, could this be conflicting? I would use it, but its my mom's old computer, and one time she unplugged the monitor without unscrewing it, and managed to rip the cord out port and all, shes a strong woman. LOL Thats why I have the cheesy 3Dlabs card in it, it was just lying around.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2008-08-08
A quick google showed that your Dell monitor is a CRT 17" with a maximum resolution of 1024x768, so take all those "1280x1024" bits out of the xorg.conf modification I gave you. It might be worth trying again with that edit, but the xserver usually defaults down from an impossible resolution. 

I have no idea what the grub problem is. Someone else may.

If the BIOS is saying the onboard video is disabled then I wouldn't have thought that would be interfering. You haven't got an old nvidia card, cheesy or otherwise, lying around, have you? :wink: That would solve a lot of problems.

---

### Post by ttk1opc on 2008-08-08
OK, I took out all the 1280x1024, (and I found PDF, the values are right) Restart xserver results in a shell prompt but with normal text, and a login. I enter login information, login. But no GUI? Maybe this is normal. Try command
```
 sudo etc/init.d/gdm restart 
```

Stops and starts, but still no gui? Am I doing it wrong? 

Also I wish I had another card, would have tried that first, may just give up soon and get another card, can you still buy old PCI cards? ANyways, in the xorg.conf should there be something here?:

```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

Thanks for your help so far! Greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2008-08-09
> **ttk1opc said:**
> can you still buy old PCI cards?

You might be lucky, but....  About a year ago I wanted to get one for an old PC. I found a new PCI nvidia 5200 but it was one and a half to two times the cost of the same make and chipset AGP card. No doubt the equivalent AGP card is now more expensive than a PCIe card. But you might be able to pick up a second-hand one somewhere.

> **ttk1opc said:**
> ANyways, in the xorg.conf should there be something here?:

```

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

Yes, there is, and I mentioned it in passing earlier and then forgot about it. Add in another line so that it reads:

```

 Section "Device"
     Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
     Driver        "vesa"
EndSection
 
```Any card *should* work with the vesa driver, but it's a basic one - 2D only, no acceleration. I'm guessing (and hoping) that some or all of your problem is with that obscure video driver. We'll see. And, I'm afraid, if that doesn't work I'm out of ideas, except.....

.... last thing. Have you looked to see if there's a Linux Users Group near you? Someone there might have a suggestion but, more importantly, someone there might have an old PCI nvidia card in a box of spares that they'll let you have cheap. :wink:

**Edit**: just a thought - another last thing. The reason we're stuffing extra lines in xorg.conf is that earlier versions of the xserver needed them, but the latest autodetects most things and doesn't need the lines. At least, most of the time that is. When it fails to autodetect, you put the extra code in. That's the theory anyway. I wonder if the missing driver line is the problem? In the laptop I'm posting from, there's no driver line in xorg.conf, but the graphics is Intel and obviously the xserver is managing to use the correct driver - otherwise I wouldn't be typing this. :) So I wonder if it's simply that the latest version of the xserver can't cope with your obscure card and driver and needs some sort of driver line. However, I wouldn't know what the correct driver reference would be. If "vesa" doesn't help, try:

```
Driver    "glint"
```If that doesn't work, try googling for your card in Google Linux to try to see what the driver should be called. Try "vesa" anyway and, hopefully, something will work.

---

