---
title: "5.1 surround with nforce card"
date: 2006-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jesusrop on 2006-02-14
Easy to figure out what is this post about, isn't it??

How do I enable 5.1 chanel surround sound?

This is my hardware:

Sound Card: Integrated in ASUS a7n8x-E deluxe (nForce audio)
Speakers: Philips PC 400 (analog input, 5.1)

I also would like to know if Sound Blaster X-Fi cards work with Ubuntu....has anybody tried??

---

### Post by jazzgossen on 2006-02-14
This was posted a while ago by someone else on the forum, and it worked for me:


Open a terminal. 
type : aplay -l
(You can get the same information from Device Manager, but this way is quicker). On the second grouping you will have a device called an IEC958 . 
Take note of the number directly after card and device. 
Edit the file ~/.asoundrc so that it contains the following: 

pcm.!default {
  type hw
  card X
  device Y
}

ctl.!default {
  type hw 
  card X
  device Y
}

After both card and device you need to put the numbers that you retrieved from aplay -l . (number that was after card in aplay -l in place of X and the number that was after device in place of Y). 

To change the system-wide settings, copy .asoundrc to /etc/asound.conf

---

### Post by minisori on 2006-02-14
About the card i dont know if it works, but most of the features it has will not, same for audigy 2 as far i know.

---

### Post by jazzgossen on 2006-02-15
I know the card works. I also have an nForce2 mobo with integrated audio, and I get at least 5.0 (I don't have a subwoofer) audio from Ubuntu.

---

### Post by jesusrop on 2006-02-16
This is what I get from aplay -l

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: nForce2 [NVidia nForce2], device 0: Intel ICH [NVidia nForce2]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: nForce2 [NVidia nForce2], device 2: Intel ICH - IEC958 [NVidia nForce2 - IEC958]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

So this is my ~/.asoundrc file (wich didn't exist...)

pcm.!default {
type hw
card 0
device 2
}

ctl.!default {
type hw
card 0
device 2
}

And, as i want this setting to be this way system-wide, my /etc/asound.conf file is also the same (and didn't exist...)

Now I can't get any sound from my PC :'(

Did I do anything wrong?!?!?!

---

### Post by Jason_25 on 2006-02-16
Same trouble here with 2 nforce 2 boards with the nvidia soundstorm and with 2 different nforce4 boards. The posted file above doesn't work.  It actually causes alsa to switch to the null device.

The **only** way I can get sound from the spdif is with the nvidia OSS drivers.  Unfortunately these drivers have bugs with games and it's tricky to get the system sounds to play.

---

### Post by jazzgossen on 2006-02-17
Oh, I forgot to mention that the settings posted above are for use with ALSA, so you also need to change the default audio output to ALSA under System -> Preferences -> Multimedia Systems Selector.

If that still doesn't work, just remove the config file you created, and things should be the same as before you made the changes.

---

### Post by Icarosaurus on 2006-11-09
Hi all
It works fine on my abit AN7 MoBo setting ```
\etc\asound.conf
``` as:

```

pcm.!default {
type hw
card 0
device 0
}

ctl.!default {
type hw
card 0
device 0
}

```

---

