---
title: ".folders within home folder"
date: 2010-08-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dpwilson on 2010-08-09
My questions concerns the .folders or directories within your home folder.  I had a post the other day and found you can create a .fonts folder to put fonts in.  My question is what is the relevance of these folders and how are they read by the OS?  I tried to doing some research on linux file structures and get the same thing, with nothing really describing or talking about these particular files.  I know they show up if you select "show hidden files" and that there are folders with several program names on them.  Any information appreciated.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-08-09
.folders are generally used by applications run by you to save their configuration/reusable files (e.g. a music player may store album art and lyrics). Think of them as an equivalent to a user's appdata on Windows.

---

### Post by hwttdz on 2010-08-09
To elaborate a bit, usually they're not used by the OS (depends on how you define the OS).  Many programs make their ownsettings folder, for instance I see that I have one for .nautilus, .ssh, .Skype, and .mozilla.  

It is the individual programs that put things in these folders and later read the information from the folders.  For instance the .mozilla folder contains your firefox profile among other things, .nautilus should contain things like your listing preferences, and the side panel options...

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2010-08-09
In general, the .folders in /home/<user_name>/ hold the configuration information and defaults of programs that You run on your computer.

---

### Post by coldraven on 2010-08-09
Also very handy for copying your settings to a new installation.
So for example if you copied your /home/your-username/.mozilla/firefox folder all your web-site passwords and browsing history would go with it.
I don't keep that sort of stuff but I know some folk do.
That's why a lot of posts recommend creating a separate partition for your home folder and also remembering to make a back-up.

---

### Post by Noz3001 on 2010-08-09
They also enable a program to store per-user settings and data. Someone else using the computer can't get your browser information, for example.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-08-09
The OS itself (the Linux kernel) doesn't make special use of those files, but in Gnome, .desktop and .hidden files are used to present special desktop icons and to list hidden files that don't start with a dot.

It seems to be becoming common for applications to store their configurations in .config/appname instead of .appname, which I think makes a lot of sense.

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2010-08-09
like others said dotfiles are used to store configuration of your desktop. There are 2 main purposes of them - 1. configuration of your desktop, programs and everything and 2. to add some files that are used by the system, but only in case of your account, not system wide. Example? Themes, fonts, icons... - you put them in proper predefined dirs, voila. In such scenario they can be only used by you, but on the other hand you don't need root rights like in case of /usr/share or whatever dir).

---

### Post by dpwilson on 2010-08-09
Thanks for all the information.  Another reason I prefer Ubuntun.

---

