---
title: "12.10: Slow machine, &quot;tracker-extract&quot; takes 100% CPU"
date: 2013-02-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GnuKian on 2013-02-03
The below picture shows that "tracker-extract" is really hungry! CPUs are under the whip! the system do not crash, but it is slow! what is "tracker-extract"?
[IMG]http://www.uploadtak.com/images/y82_1.png[/IMG]

[IMG]http://www.uploadtak.com/images/q3526_2.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-02-03
You may wish to note what session you are using & what version of nautilus if not the 12.10 repo version.
(When I was using 12.10  I'd occasionally build nautilus with tracker support & did notice it used excessive cpu  at times. 

Didn't really find any great value in tracker so removed it.

---

### Post by GnuKian on 2013-02-03
> **mc4man said:**
> You may wish to note what session you are using & what version of nautilus if not the 12.10 repo version.
I've installed Gnome-Shell by this command:
```
sudo apt-get install gnome-shell
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-gnome-desktop
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-gnome-default-settings
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3
sudo apt-get update ; sudo apt-get upgrade
```So, my Nautilus version is now 3.6.3

> **mc4man said:**
> Didn't really find any great value in tracker so removed it.
Do you mean do I remove the "tracker-extract"?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-02-03
I don't see anything in that ppa that depends on any of the various tracker* or libtracker* libraries in 12.10.

What you could do is open synaptic (install if not already), search tracker
Then scroll down & see which libtracker-* & tracker* packages are installed. As you mark any for removal see if synaptic wants to remove any **non tracker packages**.
If "tracker" is installed I'd remove it & tracker-extract at the least.

(the only tracker package I've found useful to date is libtracker-sparql- which is used when enabling grilo plugins in totem

---

### Post by GnuKian on 2013-02-04
After running `sudo apt-get remove tracker`, I get this warning:
```
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  tracker tracker-extract tracker-gui tracker-miner-fs tracker-utils
  ubuntu-gnome-desktop
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 6 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
After this operation, 4,016 kB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]?
```
Plz, Note to the last package in the above output! -> ubuntu-gnome-desktop
If I remove tracker, "ubuntu-gnome-desktop" will removed!

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-02-04
> **GnuKian said:**
> 
Plz, Note to the last package in the above output! -> ubuntu-gnome-desktop
If I remove tracker, "ubuntu-gnome-desktop" will removed!
Well ubuntu-gnome-desktop is just a meta package, doesn't change much if removed.
Why tracker is a dep I don't know - asked here, maybe someone will give you an answer...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12492662#post12492662](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12492662#post12492662)

If it was me & the poor behavior continued I'd just remove as previously mentioned (or look to see if it can be disabled/turned off, whatever

---

### Post by Ebia on 2013-05-18
What if you remove only tracker-miner-fs?

```
sudo apt-get remove tracker-miner-fs
```

---

### Post by mgt2000 on 2013-06-08
As others said you can remove it or you can disable it or change its configuration using its GUI (tracker-gui). The gui is available in your system setting: "Searching and Indexing"

---

