---
title: "20.04 LTS bootable USB - keyboard and general freezing problems"
date: 2020-08-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by unprovoked2000 on 2020-08-10
I am having problems with a Ubuntu 20.04 LTS bootable USB on a Gigabyte laptop from 2019 with a nVidia GPU. All RAM tested with Memtest86 for 4 passes. Prime 95 stable on Windows 10.

In the Try Ubuntu / Install Ubuntu opening screen, sometimes it just freezes completely, requiring a hard shutdown.

If it doesn't freeze and if I do get to the desktop, the keyboard does not work for some applications.  For example, the keyboard works for the launch menu, so I can type "term" and launch a terminal.  However, the terminal does not accept any input! Likewise, for firefox, the address bar does not accept any keyboard input. If I Ctrl-Alt-F3 to a console, I can type just fine.

The freezing can be avoided by choosing the safe graphics option, but the keyboard issue remains. Also, if I actually try to Install Ubuntu from the safe graphics option, the dialog box is so large that I cannot see (and press) the back/next buttons on the bottom.

Questions: Are there any boot options which will allow the regular (non-safe graphics) option to work without freezing?

How can I get keyboard input to work reliably, since terminal and firefox are non-responsive to the keyboard?

---

### Post by unprovoked2000 on 2020-08-10
Update: I saw this evening that 20.04.1 was released today.

I tried that as a bootable live USB, and it has solved (so far) the freezing issues and the keyboard input issues!

---

### Post by wizardoveryonder on 2020-08-11
Glad you got it sorted! I've only migrated to Linux in the last week, and had a fair few issues getting started but it's worth it! :)

---

### Post by unprovoked2000 on 2020-08-11
I may have spoken too soon.  I have used the Live USB for 20.04.1 four times now, and the good news is that it never froze.  And the keyboard input did not lock up for terminal or firefox for the first three times.  But the latest boot, terminal and firefox were again not accepting keyboard input.  Don't really know how to debug this, and since it works most of the time, I guess it is not a big problem for me.

---

### Post by kneutron on 2020-08-12
--I think your USB drive may be failing, try another one or go with an inexpensive Portable SSD USB3 drive...

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-08-12
> **kneutron said:**
> --I think your USB drive may be failing, try another one or go with an inexpensive Portable SSD USB3 drive...

This ^^^ or you need to use 'nomodeset' to run the live session. Installing the system and then Nvidia drivers -or- selecting the option to install third-party drivers, firmware and codecs during installation does the same in one go. Also important to disable Secure Boot.

An installed system with proper Nvidia drivers shouldn't present the symptoms you're reporting.

---

### Post by unprovoked2000 on 2020-08-12
Thanks for the tips on 'nomodeset' and the possibility of a bad USB stick.

The above problems only occurred while running the Live USB environment. Once I actually install Ubuntu onto a hard drive, there are no keyboard input or graphics freezing problems for that installed system.  So it may well be the case that there are problems with my USB stick.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-08-12
> [COLOR=#000000]So it may well be the case that there are problems with my USB stick.[/COLOR]

Yes -or- the open-source nouveau driver that always runs in a live session doesn't correctly support your graphics card.

---

### Post by unprovoked2000 on 2020-08-12
Yes, I think in 20.04, the nouveau driver was causing the freezing in the live session, but in 20.04.1, it seems more stable.

I'll create another Live 20.04.1 USB on a new USB stick and try booting it a few times to see if the keyboard input problem arises with a different USB stick

---

### Post by unprovoked2000 on 2020-08-12
Here are the results of my testing with Ubnutu 20.04.1 LTS on a brand new USB stick, booting to the live session on a 2019 Gigabyte laptop with a discrete nVidia GPU

1) ubuntu (regular): terminal and firefox were not receptive to keyboard input

2-5) ubuntu (safe graphics, i.e. nomodeset): in 1 out of 4 boot attempts, terminal and firefox were not receptive to keyboard input. However, logging out of the live session and immediately logging back in fixed the keyboard problem.

6) ubuntu (regular): terminal and firefox were not receptive to keyboard input, but logging out and logging back in fixed it

Since I have tested it on a second USB stick (this one brand new), and I see it either with regular or safe graphics, it must be some sort of problem with Ubuntu and my laptop.  However, it is fixed by logging out and logging back into a live session

With 20.04.1, I have not experienced any freezing of the screen (due to graphics driver issue), whereas I would see that frequently with 20.04.

---

