---
title: "Problem viewing the output of the script-command"
date: 2022-09-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ulrichmuc2 on 2022-09-05
When I try to look at the file generated by script - say foo - using vi or less, I see a lot of control-characters.
"cat foo" gives me clear text, but "less foo" not.
 If I pipe thru  iconv -f utf-8 -t l1 I get good output in the terminal. However when I pipe then thru "less" or redirerct into a file, I have the same
problem again.

So, why behaves script this way and how can I fix it?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2022-09-05
Please show the script. Put it between code tags like this
 
[noparse]```

line 1
line 2
...

```[/noparse]
 
to get output like this
 
```

line 1
line 2
...

```

---

### Post by ulrichmuc2 on 2022-09-05
I am not talking about any script of mine, but about the Unix scipt-command, see mapage:  script - make typescript of terminal session.

Btw, why can&#8217;t I paste into the message windo here?

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-09-05
It's intentional behavior of [FONT=Courier New]less[/FONT] .  There are several option flags for handling of control characters, refer to [FONT=Courier New]man less[/FONT] to see the options and decide which one you want.

---

### Post by ulrichmuc2 on 2022-09-05
O.k., "less -r" fixes my problem (mostly). But why does script insert the control characters in the first place.
It is not just a less-problem. When I try to look at the file with vi (or to edit it with vi) I run into the same problem.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2022-09-05
Sorry, I did not understand that you meant the compiled program **[FONT=Courier New]script[/FONT]**. I have used **[FONT=Courier New]script[/FONT]** and know what is happening:

It copies everything [all data] that is sent to the screen (or terminal window) to a file, and these data contain not only text but also [ANSI escape sequences](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code) for moving the cursor and setting the colour (for example the colour of the prompt and other formatting instructions).

This is transmitted by **[FONT=Courier New]cat[/FONT]**. However, **[FONT=Courier New]less[/FONT]** is showing the raw sequence codes instead of sending them to the screen (or terminal window), but as you have already found,**[FONT=Courier New] less -r[/FONT]** will change that behaviour.

---

### Post by ulrichmuc2 on 2022-09-05
And what is the best way to get rid of the ANSI escape sequences, so that I can edit the file?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2022-09-05
You can

- use command lines according to [url=https://superuser.com/questions/380772/removing-ansi-color-codes-from-text-
stream]this link[/url],

- or install the program package **[FONT=Courier New]colorized-logs[/FONT]** and use the program **[FONT=Courier New]ansi2txt[/FONT]**.

According to **[FONT=Courier New]man ansi2txt[/FONT]**,
```

NAME
       ansi2txt - ansi to plain text converter

SYNOPSIS
       ansi2txt < log > outfile

DESCRIPTION
       ansi2txt  can  be used to convert text containing ANSI color codes (such as MUD logs, text processed by syntax
       highlighters, colorgcc, colordiff, ccze, loco, etc) into plain ASCII text.  It works as a filter, reading from
       stdin, removing all ANSI codes and sending the output to stdout.

CAVEATS
       All  ANSI  codes  are simply ignored, including all cursor positioning ones.  Sometimes this is what you want,
       sometimes it isn't.

```

---

### Post by ulrichmuc2 on 2022-09-05
ansi2txt works nicely for me. Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by sudodus on 2022-09-06
I'm glad that I could help you find a solution :-)

Please click on **Thread Tools** at the top of the page and mark this thread as SOLVED

---

