---
title: "10.04.1: gedit Won't Launch"
date: 2011-01-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by temporos on 2011-01-06
I performed a clean install of Lucid last night, but gedit won't start. When I launch it from Applications > Accessories > gedit, it attempts to start (as mentioned in the windows list). After a few seconds, it just stops trying.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-01-06
Launch it from terminal 
```
gedit
```
and post us any error messages.

---

### Post by temporos on 2011-01-06
#-o I tried it in a terminal window, and it launched fine.  Then, I tried launching it from the Applications menu again, and it launched fine.  So, I guess this is now a non-issue.

---

### Post by MaxIBoy on 2011-01-06
I know what confused you. If gedit is already open, launching it again will just open a new tab in your existing gedit window. But it still shows that "starting gedit..." thing in the window switcher, which is kind of annoying but meaningless.

---

### Post by temporos on 2011-01-06
> **MaxIBoy said:**
> I know what confused you. If gedit is already open, launching it again will just open a new tab in your existing gedit window.

No, that's not it.  Gedit wasn't open when I tried to launch it.  But it seems to work now.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2011-01-07
> **temporos said:**
> No, that's not it.  Gedit wasn't open when I tried to launch it.  But it seems to work now.

Then MARK THE THREAD!!

---

### Post by mjonyh on 2011-11-15
I can't open gedit and terminal shows the followings:


jony@jony-desktop:~$ gedit 

(gedit:2207): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_list_store_set_column_types: assertion `priv->columns_dirty == 0' failed

(gedit:2207): GLib-GIO-CRITICAL **: Settings schema 'org.gnome.gedit.plugins.restoretabs' is not installed


(gedit:2207): GLib-GIO-CRITICAL **: g_settings_get_key_info: assertion `settings->priv->schema != NULL' failed
Segmentation fault


what should i do? thanks in advance.

---

### Post by temporos on 2011-11-21
Go to Applications > Ubuntu Software Centre.  Then, in the search bar, type "gedit".  Gedit should show up in the list below that.  Select it and uninstall it.  Log-out, log back in, and then re-install gedit using the same procedure (except, obviously, you choose "install" instead of "remove").

If that doesn't help, let us know.

---

