---
title: "New 16.04 desktop install on USB3 drive, wont boot"
date: 2016-12-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by syadnom on 2016-12-15
I just installed 16.04 on an external drive attached via USB3.  The install seems to go smoothly (I've done it 3 times now), but on reboot, it seems that the bootloader starts but doesn't get past some very very early part.  It freezes up before even displaying 'grub' or anything text at all.  it does seem to bring the cursor down 1 line but that's it.

I've tried with all defaults, custom partitioning with 1 big ext4 partition, it IS marked bootable.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-15
Please post your complete HW info. Else shooting in the dark.

---

### Post by syadnom on 2016-12-15
Seagate Backup Plus USB3 2TB, for whatever reason is non-bootable.

I have a USB3>SATA adapter and I put an old SSD on and installed, boots right up.

Tried it in a different computer to see if it was this one, but it does the same thing.

So this is kind-of solved in that it doesn't appear to be an ubuntu issue.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-15
Ah. So it's a HW issue.

USB&#8594;SATA are sometimes wonky and unreliable. Good detective work on your part.

Though answer is not what you would have liked, if you consider mystery solved, please mark thread "solved" using thread tools at the top of this thread, so that others can benefit from your solution.

---

### Post by syadnom on 2016-12-16
I have 2 of these Seagates, the second one does the same thing.  Info for posterity:

Seagate Backup Plus Desktop Drive 2TB Model SRD00F2

Tried:
1 Large EXT4 partition
Followed UEFI partitioning and tried to boot in UEFI mode, UEFI doesn't see it.
Tried GPT partitioning scheme, no luck
Tried 100MB boot, separate swap and large root, no luck.
always same blank screen with cursor advancing 1 line.

---

