---
title: "5.1 surround with CA0106 using IEC958 - Kubuntu Karmic"
date: 2010-04-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by garthecho on 2010-04-13
Just beating my head against a wall lately trying to enable 5.1 surround through the digital out (spdif) of my Audigy SE card.  It outputs fine to stereo right now, but watching a DVD with 5.1 selected in any media player (VLC, Totem, Mplayer etc.) still yields stereo output.

I've searched far and wide for a solution with no luck yet.

Just curious if someone with a similar setup has had any luck.

---

### Post by Sin@Sin-Sacrifice on 2010-04-13
Is vlc, mplayer, and totem set to 5.1?

---

### Post by garthecho on 2010-04-13
Oh yeah.  I've tried what seems like every audio combination I can find.  Ideally, I would like to be able to set them all to AC3 passthrough, but that option gives me silence.

---

### Post by garthecho on 2010-04-14
Just to give more info, here's the result of "speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav"


  Playback device is plug:surround51
Stream parameters are 48000Hz, S16_LE, 6 channels
WAV file(s)
Rate set to 48000Hz (requested 48000Hz)
Buffer size range from 32 to 16384
Period size range from 16 to 8192
Using max buffer size 16384
Periods = 4
was set period_size = 4096
was set buffer_size = 16384
 0 - Front Left
 4 - Center
 1 - Front Right
 3 - Rear Right
 2 - Rear Left
 5 - LFE
Time per period = 8.364022


With this I hear only the front left and right channels.

Also I'm using pulseaudio, so I have modified /etc/pulse/daemon.conf and uncommented and changed "default-sample-channels" to be set for 6 instead of 2.

---

### Post by garthecho on 2010-04-16
Well, I guess this is a tough one.  If I figure this out I will make sure to post back here for the people with this hardware that want digital 5.1.  

Until then, any advice or experiences are very welcome.

---

### Post by Sin@Sin-Sacrifice on 2010-04-20
Toyed around with it and I found the sample channel conf in /etc/pulse/daemon.conf where I uncommented it and changed the 2 to 6 (well... 5.1 first. That didn't work at all.). You can test it out with ```
speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav
```.

---

### Post by garthecho on 2010-04-21
Thanks for the tip, but for some reason making that change doesn't help me.  I only hear the front left and right channels with the test.  Is your setup hooked up digitally?  I'm starting to think it would probably work in analog mode, but I would like to keep my card hooked to my amp through the spdif.  I know the card is capable of this, as it works in another "proprietary OS" I'm forced to use occasionally :).

---

### Post by grege on 2010-04-21
You could try installing Gnome-alsamixer and check the preference and make sure all the channels are visible. then ...

make sure all the volumes are turned up for the various channels.

I use an M-Audio Revolution5.1 so I cannot be more specific.

---

### Post by jocko on 2010-04-21
The problem is that pulseaudio is not capable of spdif passthrough (there's [this two years old open bug]("http://pulseaudio.org/ticket/167") on it).
With mplayer you should get passthrough of dolby and dts by using alsa as output, and hwac3 as codec family. From a command line:
```
mplayer -ao alsa -afm hwac3 [COLOR=Blue]filename[/COLOR]
```In vlc, setting the sound to alsa and enabling the "use spdif if available" and "force detection of dolby surround" should do it.

Just note that as this uses alsa directly, it won't work if pulseaudio is already playing some sound (and while mplayer or vlc plays surround sound, pulseaudio won't work).

---

### Post by garthecho on 2010-04-21
Thanks jocko, I was unaware of that bug.  Doesn't look too hopeful.

---

### Post by sailor420 on 2010-06-12
I was having this same problem, and finally got it resolved. It's not perfect, but I followed the post below, essentially using the various applications (XBMC in my case) to force digital passthrough, while letting the OS go with stereo. Works pretty well.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8655551&postcount=18](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8655551&postcount=18)

> I managed to get it working without removing Pulse. Here is what I did:
Install the Alsa libraries
Open the Pulse default Sound Preferences
Click the Hardware tab
Choose Analog Stereo Duplex profile
In every application that supports hardware configuration, set sound output to IEC985 or similar

Of course your hardware may differ. The surprising thing for me is that if I select any other non-digital profile other than Analog Stereo Duplex it doesn't work. But I now have automatic 5.1 and stereo out working in VLC and XBMC. I haven't spent enough time with MythTV to get that working yet, and I only get stereo from the other media players, but VLC, XBMC and MythTV are the only ones I care about.

My system volume seems to be stable now and not muting on restart, however I also recently switched to Linux Mint (built on Karmic) so I don't know whether that made a difference in that case. I also fixed my VNC problem, though that's OT.

---

