---
title: "[8.04] fails at all 3d applications"
date: 2008-04-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by snirpyor on 2008-04-14
================posted to hardy section ===================

view at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4717151#post4717151](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4717151#post4717151)
========================================================
DO NOT REPLY HERE
=========================================================

(new to ubuntu, not sure if this is Hardy specific)

Using Gygabyte MA78GM motherboard.
Tried it first with kubuntu then with ubuntu 8.04 (hardy). Both with latest catalyst drivers.

In both occasions I ran into the same strange issue. All seems to be working fine, until I use a 3d application. After a few seconds or sometimes directly I start loosing the window running the 3d application.

    * In Blender I see right through the window, as if it wasn't there. Moving the mouse brings the window back, but only very briefly. The application still shows on the panel.
    * In Lincity-NG the window blackens still showing the pointer in lincity style. Again moving the mouse sporadically brings back picture


No such issues arise with 2d applications (playing a dvd, lincity normal, desktop use). I believe playing a dvd to be more demanding to both CPU and GPU than showing the blank start screen of blender, so I rule out a temperature issue.

Can anyone pinpoint this? Drivers, Hardy, motherboard, bios settings? I believe I have nothing out of the ordinary going on here....

---

### Post by snirpyor on 2008-04-14
Update:

This also goes for all 3d screensavers. Blacking out briefly every so often. The most trouble seems to be with the "solar winds" screensaver.

---

### Post by FAJALOU on 2008-04-14
You may want to try posting this also in the Hardy section here;

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=305](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=305)

They should be able to help you out a little more.  Also remember that 
"HARDY HERON SHOULD NOT BE USED FOR YOUR DESKTOP UNTIL IT IS RELEASED IN APRIL 2008
If you decide to use Hardy Heron now, then you are doing so at your own risk, and with the risk of major breakage and possible data loss."  
-From link above.  It does come out in a matter of days, but the bugs still might not be fixed.  Good luck with the issues you are having.  Try it on the forum above.

And it could also be your motherboard, not playing nicely with Ubuntu, have you tried 3D effects in other OSes on your system and have they worked?

---

### Post by snirpyor on 2008-04-14
Will post at Hardy section, just not too sure the problem is hardy, since other have not reported this problem. Then again I am a newby. 

Do not have recent OS's at my disposal, but might give a go at Gutsy.

---

