---
title: "8.04.2 or 9.04, help me decide"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by donsy on 2009-05-04
I've been working with both the 8.04.2 and 9.04 live CD's, testing, and even going so far as the install process, getting to the disk partitioner before quitting. My question is, should I install the presumably more stable 8.04.2 with it's longer life-cycle, or 9.04 which may have more features but is potentially more buggy and has a shorter life-cycle? My intention is to use Ubuntu as a development platform and the first thing I'll need to do is get Apache, PHP, and MySQL up and running. Thanks for your input.

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2009-05-04
9.04 is still considered a little buggy, it only came out on April 23rd.

Why don't you use 8.10?  It is considered very stable now.

---

### Post by geirha on 2009-05-04
If ubuntu 8.04.2 has acceptable versions of apache, php and mysql for your needs, I'd go with 8.04.2. When the next LTS comes along in 2010, you can upgrade directly to that realease. With the regular releases, you have to upgrade every 12-18 months, while with the LTS releases you only need to upgrade every 2-3 years.

---

### Post by dtoronto on 2009-05-04
Are you installing a server, it sounds like you're going to deploy a simple LAMP.  If that is the case I would recommend Ubuntu 8.04.  The LTS for the server edition is supported until 2013 and for server apps you don't want to run a buggy OS at all.  If you are simply installing a desktop I would go with 9.04.  It is an excellent OS for desktop use, and 8.04 and 9.04 for the desktop will both be supported until 2010 I believe.  Cheers

---

### Post by bobnutfield on 2009-05-04
Well, just an opinion of course, but...

8.04 was released in April 2008 with a three years support cycle for the desktop and five years for servers.  9.04 released on 30 April with a support cycle of 18 months, until October 2010.  8.04 support ends April 2011, six months apart.  No much difference really.

9.04 has been very stable for me on three different machines.  Though, I am not sure you could call Jaunty "feature rich" compared to Hardy (except for vastly better wireless support.  As a development platform, my choice would be Jaunty with the most up-to-date libraries for just about everything.  Be careful if you have ATI graphics, though.  Older chipsets are losing support in the prop. driver development by AMD.

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2009-05-04
> **bobnutfield said:**
>  Older chipsets are losing support in the prop. driver development by AMD.

I read a comment from one person who said their card was only a year old and it was already unsupported.  I really question AMD's definition of "older".

---

