---
title: "11.04 for netbook"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by haiiya on 2011-05-02
Theres no option to install netbook version of ubuntu so which should i get ? the ubuntu 11.04 desktop version is sooo slow as it wwill only let me install 64bit

---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2011-05-02
The netbook addition has been discontinues since as I understand it most the kernel improvements for the netbook have been rolled into the base desktop kernel.

If it is running slow you may want to install the 2d unity desktop or look into installing Xubuntu or Lubuntu both a bit lighter on required resources.

---

### Post by haiiya on 2011-05-03
> **buddyd16 said:**
> The netbook addition has been discontinues since as I understand it most the kernel improvements for the netbook have been rolled into the base desktop kernel.

If it is running slow you may want to install the 2d unity desktop or look into installing Xubuntu or Lubuntu both a bit lighter on required resources.

Isnt there any way to optimize it? i tried the 2d unity desktop and it didnt have any effect. Windows 7 is much much much faster :(

it takes 5seconds to open firefox or google chrome, it takes like 10seconds to open the software manager, it takes like 5minutes to install something... it will just say installing then after 1min there install button will be there again

I even tried installing kopete but gave up after 30mins.

my specs are 

n455 processor
1gb ram
250gb harddrive

---

### Post by Skaggz on 2011-05-03
There is an 11.04 Netbook download on the following page.  Its 32-bit though.
[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download)

*edit*: Never mind, the link appears to be broken.

---

### Post by haiiya on 2011-05-03
> **Skaggz said:**
> There is an 11.04 Netbook download on the following page.  Its 32-bit though.
[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download)

the link is not working and i dont think its getting fixed because its not been working since the new ubuntu came out

---

### Post by haiiya on 2011-05-03
another thing.. the cpu usuage wasnt really that high neither was memory

cpu was 30% and memory the same but things werent running smooth if at all. sand everything start up very slowly

---

### Post by haiiya on 2011-05-04
seems like no one can help me get ubuntu to run just as fast as windows 7 or im the only one experiencing a very slow running ubuntu

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-04
Try Xubuntu.. its based on the same GNOME base and you can install Unity from Synaptic if you want.

It may run lighter than a traditional Ubuntu install.

---

### Post by janursin on 2011-05-07
I have the exact same problem on my wifes netbook. She complains all the time about the speed of Natty.

---

### Post by Habeouscorpus on 2011-05-07
Unity is a bit heavy for my netbook too. I use Openbox, a very, very lightweight WM.

---

### Post by wraithofhate on 2011-05-07
How big of a swap file did you make?

I just got natty onto my netbook today and it runs great.
Course I am comparing that to xp...
Sure not as fast as my main computer but still faster and better then it was.

---

### Post by haiiya on 2011-05-07
> **wraithofhate said:**
> How big of a swap file did you make?

I just got natty onto my netbook today and it runs great.
Course I am comparing that to xp...
Sure not as fast as my main computer but still faster and better then it was.

Yeah it could be something to do with swap file

how do i make it bigger at install? i will attempt to install ubuntu 1 more time as soon as i find out how to make it bigger

---

### Post by haiiya on 2011-05-12
I finally fixed it! or kinda... after trying all kinds of versions like xubuntu and 32bit and 64bit of ubuntu i ended up installing lubuntu, and its running very smoothly even faster than windows 7

So if anyone have the same problem as me I would advice to get lubuntu

---

