---
title: "8.10-9.04 differences/pros and cons"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2009-04-26
hey every1
what are the differnces you found out between 810 & 904?

and the pros -cons

---

### Post by cwbar_1 on 2009-04-26
The new "notifications" is very nice.  Much better splash screen. Ext4 is speedy.  Upgraded programs are a big plus!

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-04-26
Pros

[list][*] my TV card image quality is wayyyy much better now, so I can record TV without applying so many blur and noise filters to fix the image 
[*] screenlets and cairo-dock work much better for me now
[*] several new packages were added, so I don't need to hunt for debs
[*] boot time is faster by 8 to 10 seconds
[*] new visual is beautiful[/list]

Cons

[list][*] loading the desktop takes more time now
[*] lost some performance on wine
[*] enconding a 2:30 hours video with avidemux took 6 hours
[*] can't install Gimmie
[*] [/list]
Overall opinion.....I loved it. I'm sure most of the problems will be fixed soon and the fact that my TV is great now is already a good motive to love it.

---

### Post by |Mitch| on 2009-04-26
9.04 + EXT4 + 64bit = noticeable boot-up speed increase and a much snappier system all the way around

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-04-26
Everything works better out of box than 8.10, pulse audio has far less issues, video works good, apps, new notifications, boot speed and general stability gives it a far better experience.

Certain nagging issues like occasional high CPU usage with synaptic should be weeded out gradually.

---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2009-04-27
I'm using ext 3 ( I Think)and have 32 bit version...

there isn't a way to upgrade either of the things without resinstalling the whole system right?

and where did you get the 64 bit version

last question:What are the differences betweeen: 32 bit, 64 bit, 64x, 86x (I always get confused


Only Con I found:
don't like the new pidgin thing in the corner by the TURN OFF buttons and the time.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-04-27
> **flyingsliverfin said:**
> I'm using ext 3 ( I Think)and have 32 bit version...

there isn't a way to upgrade either of the things without resinstalling the whole system right?

and where did you get the 64 bit version

last question:What are the differences betweeen: 32 bit, 64 bit, 64x, 86x (I always get confused


Only Con I found:
don't like the new pidgin thing in the corner by the TURN OFF buttons and the time.

32bit = x86 = i386
64bit = AMD64

You can get the 64bit version is the same areas as the 32bit one.  The [download page](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download), [torrents](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#bt), etc.

**Just make sure your processor supports 64bit**

---

### Post by MikeBrown on 2009-04-27
I like the new notifications look, the boot time is faster for me on my laptop (see sig for spces), No noticable changes in graphics, wireless controller still works without having to be configured, like the new login screen. 

Overall the upgrade is nice but it didn't really change anything major for me either way.

I'm having no problems getting old settings/programs to work like the previous boot, so I guess all in all it was a successful upgrade.

Honestly the only thing I had found that I DONT like is that Pidgin now uses a mail icon with a drop-down list... and that's not even anything worth complaining about or looking up how to change!

---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2009-04-27
> **MikeBrown said:**
> 
Honestly the only thing I had found that I DONT like is that Pidgin now uses a mail icon with a drop-down list

Same!

---

### Post by pickarooney on 2009-04-28
I haven't noticed a single change in Xubuntu yet (no splashscreen change or notifications thingy) apart from cairo docks plugins all disappeared.

---

### Post by Faolan on 2009-04-28
Ubuntu 9 is a lot more polished than 8 ever was. The key difference is that everything seems to fit better together and is more intuitive. Out of the box I've had less issues with installation and integration than I did with 8.10.

Stability was never a major issue with 8 nor does it seem that way with 9.

Graphics seems to be a lot more solid without artefacts or tears appearing on the desktop. Something that used to annoy me.

Downsides are really niggles, some processes won't shut off when shutting down leaving a dialogue box open. VNC doesn't work and respond though this is a known bug. Also compositing could be done better when booting, I leave the applications open so they're ready for when I reboot however the window is displayed ok but it can take a bit of time before you get the windows controls showing. I've also got a weird issue of CPU 1 showing 100% usage when top doesn't agree...

This is probably one of the best distro builds I've used in a long time, is it a Windows killer? No it has some user friendliness issues, especially in regards to setting up applications and a firewall. However this is something to be built on and improve. For once we have a distro that doesn't feel like it's been slapped together.

---

### Post by formol on 2009-04-28
one thing I really dislike is they remove the 'quit' button in the 'system' menu, in favor of a standardisation of the quit button at the top right in bar.

in my opinion, it's completely useless to use a part of the monitor 100% of the time for on option on only use when it's time to shut down the computer.
i mean, the system menu control the system, there is where 'quit' was and where it still should be. 

otherwise, Jaunty seems faster than 8.10 or 8.04, so for that, it's great.

---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2009-04-28
> **Faolan said:**
>  No it has some user friendliness issues, especially in regards to setting up applications and a firewall. 
 you don't really need a firewall in ubuntu. what purpose would it serve?

---

### Post by Faolan on 2009-04-28
> **flyingsliverfin said:**
> you don't really need a firewall in ubuntu. what purpose would it serve?

Several but these are the main ones:

Restriction of services to Local LAN.
Stealth the ports that are in use to the outside world.
Block applications access to the 'Net/LAN (Windows, not figured this out on Linux yet).

---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2009-04-28
oh

lol
im an ignorant (not to mention innocent) kid :) with nothing to worry about.

---

