---
title: "17.04 fails to load after SSD transplant"
date: 2017-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by habana on 2017-04-24
I installed a new 250GB SSD in my main computer which is now working (thanks Oldfred). Before this I upgraded the old 60GB SSD to 17.04 (64 bit) and checked  that a 64 bit Live 17.04 USB drive worked OK in my spare PC. I removed the old XP/FAT32 HDDs from the spare PC and and installed the  60GB SSD and its associated 256GB /Data HDD. 

I enabled AHCI in BIOS (XP didn't like AHCI) and attempted to launch 17.04. Unfortunately it didn't progress beyond the splash screen so I rebooted into  recovery mode. Although I can access the various options, the system times out after a couple of minutes, reverting to a non functional recovery menu. I am therefore unable to examine the various logs properly using journalctl. This problem is defined in [http://blog.lazy-evaluation.net/posts/linux/ubuntu-16-04-broken-recovery.html](http://blog.lazy-evaluation.net/posts/linux/ubuntu-16-04-broken-recovery.html) and is apparently a bug in systemd.

The one exception to the above is that I am able to enter the failsafe graphics mode, albeit in low resolution mode. I can then review the xserver log file (no errors) and the startup error list (none).
I'm a bit stuck now. I could possibly reinstall 17.04 from my Live USB drive but will that accept the existing MBR type partition table?

Any advice on how to proceed would be much appreciated. Note that this is a spare computer so I won't shoot myself if it all goes pear shaped! 

Motherboard:Gigabyte  GA-G33M-DS2R
CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo
Chipset:  Intel G33/ICH9R
Integrated graphics

---

### Post by habana on 2017-05-07
I eventually sorted this out - but not the systemd bug. When I moved the SSD and HDD to the old system I didn't move a second HDD, which was a data backup. As a result, fstab was looking for a drive that didn't exist. I edited fstab to remove the UUID reference to the missing drive and the system booted normally. As I understand it, this means that if any non essential drive in an Ubuntu system fails, the system will fail to boot. This doesn't seem to be  a good thing.

Anyway, I will mark this as solved.

---

