---
title: "9.04 won't boot after pySDM installation"
date: 2010-02-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Boomslang7 on 2010-02-01
Running 9.04 on an Intel PC, for the last year about.

Installed PySDM today in order to mount an external USB hard drive.
Told the PySDM Assistant to mount the drive on reboot, and to allow any user to mount it, per the tutorial instructions.

Rebooted as tutorial instructs.

And my PC won't reboot. Hangs with an unable to mount error.

I can boot the PC off an Ubuntu 9.10 CD, and see my data, but cannot uninstall PySDM (which I assume is the immediate fix).

How do I get this PySDM off my PC so I can boot it up as usual and rescue my data?

Thanks,

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-02-01
From the LiveCD, mount your main system partition. It appears you know how to do this since you say you can see your files.

Open your system's fstab file. There is probably an entry which pysdm created which has an incorrect designation (mountpoint, UUID, etc). Most likely it is the bottom line in fstab.

Mount the system partition if not already mounted, then:

```
gksudo gedit /mountpoint_of_system/etc/fstab
```

Place a comment (#) symbol at the start of the line and save the file. Restart and see if it reboots. We can try to sort it out once you are able to boot into the system.

---

### Post by Boomslang7 on 2010-02-01
Thank you for a quick reply.

My hard drive (that used to boot the system) is seen in Places as  '77GB FileSystem'

Going there, I can see  /etc/fstab in Places, and Open With gedit, but it won't let me save.
(The offending UUID entry you mention is there, begging to be commented out).

But the file is Read Only.
And,  "You are not the owner and cannot change these Permissions."

Entering   sudo gedit /etc/fstab   in Terminal gets me a whole different file.
Probably opening from the CD I booted from?

How do I open fstab on my old hard drive, as root?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-02-01
> **Boomslang7 said:**
> 
How do I open fstab on my old hard drive, as root?

You have to edit it as root. The most familiar way for you to do this is to just start nautilus as root:
```

gksu nautilus

```
When you select the fstab file as you did previously you will be opening it as root and gedit will allow you to save it. You will see some error messages in the Terminal window when you open Nautilus in this manner - just disregard them.

The reason you get a different file when you open it with "sudo gedit /etc/fstab" is because you are accessing the CD's fstab file rather than the system fstab file.

Another way to edit the file is to mount the partition (if not mounted) and then run gedit as root:  gksudo gedit /path_to_system/etc/fstab.  You can run the "mount" command if you don't know the mountpoint of your system partition.

By the way, always open graphical apps such as gedit with "gksu" or "gksudo" rather than "sudo".  [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo")

---

### Post by Boomslang7 on 2010-02-01
Thank you again for the advice.

the   gksu nautilus command ran as described

using gedit thereafter to open fstab  -  it is still Read Only

using   gksu gedit /path_to_system/etc/fstab
(wherein I replace    path_to_system    with my local path to the old hard drive)
is where I get lost.

Cannot determine the path to my drive. No matter what I try to describe the drive as it is listed in Places, it just opens up a blank file.

Entering the    Mount   command gets me this output:

aufs on / type aufs (rw)
none on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
/dev/sr0 on /cdrom type iso9660 (rw)
/dev/loop0 on /rofs type squashfs (rw)
none on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
none on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=0620)
none on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
tmpfs on /tmp type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
none on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
none on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /lib/init/rw type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/ubuntu/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=ubuntu)
/dev/sda1 on /media/4611ba6b-3121-4838-9312-86f790354db2 type ext3 (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=devkit)

(NOTE that it is that very last line that is the entry we are trying to comment out of fstab)

How does this Mount command output give me the   path_to_system     for my box, please?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-02-01
We will do it this way, since it appears sda1 is your system partition.

Unmount sda1 from it's current location.
```
sudo umount /dev/sda1

```
Mount sda1:
```
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
```

Edit fstb:
```
gksudo gedit /mnt/etc/fstab
```

Make the change, then save the file and reboot. Make sure there is a listing for sda1 (or UUID) and "/" on the same line somewhere in the fstab file.

If sda1 isn't the correct partition, provide:
```
sudo blkid -c /dev/null
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by Boomslang7 on 2010-02-01
That did it. The box booted as usual.

Ten thousand thanks. That would have been a whole heap of problems if I'd lost ready access to that data.

The underlying project behind this PySDM attempt was to move/backup about 10 GB of data to my second PC, which is a clean 9.10 install, so that this older 9.04 install could be upgraded as well.

Then I could keep them both synched every day or so, and have a backup at all times.

So, in recent weeks I've tried to set up SSH through the router (home network), setup Samba, setup SMB, used an Ethernet Crossover cable, setup an FTP connection and failed at all these connections.

So I resorted to an external USB drive to get the job done, and go back and try those other 'easy' methods later.

If you feel one of these other methods of connecting two PC sitting side by side is easier than retrying PySDM I am open to advice.

In any case, thanks very much for your help this evening.

Regards,

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-02-01
Glad to hear you got it working.

I'm a big fan of SSH but others think it's a bit of overkill. Here's a link if you want to give it another shot:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/openssh-server.html]("https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/openssh-server.html")

Once you get it set up, you connect merely by typing a command in the terminal (ssh username@ip-address) or use the Places, Connect to Server menu. It's quite easy and the setup isn't difficult.  Samba can be even easier - I'm just used to SSH.

By the way, it's helpful if, when your problem is resolved, to mark the thread solved. You do this via the Thread Tools link at the top right of the first post. You can also remove the "Solved" designation should it become necessary.

---

### Post by Boomslang7 on 2010-02-01
Thanks again.

I will tackle that SSH link this evening.

And mark this one Solved.

Regards,

---

### Post by jonobugs on 2010-04-10
Hi, I'm having a very similar problem, but I can't figure out which line I should be editing out and which one I should be leaving in.

This is my fstab file. Thanks!



# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc                                       /proc           proc         defaults                                     0  0  
# / was on /dev/sda5 during installation
 UUID=2d09421f-6a33-4f88-aa28-9293d7ea10ef  /               ext4         users,user,owner                             0  1  
# swap was on /dev/sda6 during installation

 UUID=db135643-ed14-4605-834c-d6452d0d16b0  none            swap         users,sw,user,owner                          0  0  
 /dev/scd0                                  /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8                        0  0  
 /dev/fd0                                   /media/floppy0  auto         rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8                     0  0  
 /dev/sda1                                  /media/sda1     ntfs         nls=iso8859-1,ro,umask=000                   0  0  
 /dev/sda2                                  /media/sda2     ntfs         nls=iso8859-1,ro,users,umask=000,user,owner  0  0  
 /dev/sdb1                                  /media/sdb1     ntfs         nls=iso8859-1,ro,users,umask=000,user,owner  0  0

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-04-10
> **jonobugs said:**
> Hi, I'm having a very similar problem, but I can't figure out which line I should be editing out and which one I should be leaving in.

This is my fstab file. Thanks!


You haven't given us enough information to make a determination. By "similar problem" I'll assume you are getting an error message when booting into Ubuntu.

If so, the easiest thing to do to get a working Ubuntu is to place a comment symbol (#) in front of the last three lines. They are probably two windows partitions on sda (sda1, sda2) and another on sdb1. No matter, as they are all formatted to ntfs and would not be necessary to boot to Ubuntu. 

Once you get to the Ubuntu desktop, you can determine where the problem lies and fix fstab. My guess is that the "/media/sda**1**", "/media/sda**2**" and "/media/sdb**1**" mount points don't exist. You could have made mount points by that name of course. Look in /media and see if /media/sda1, /media/sda2, and /media/sdb1 exist. If they don't, you will need to create folders by that name or change the fstab mount points.

Boot into Ubuntu, check your folders in /media, and if you have questions on how to proceed just ask. If so, post the results of the following:
```
sudo fdisk -l  # lowercase L
ls /media
sudo blkid
```

---

