---
title: "11.10 disable sound when taking screenshot?"
date: 2011-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bluetwinkle on 2011-10-21
I just noticed that the computer plays this awful camera-shutter sound whenever I take a screenshot. 

Does anyone know how to disable that? It's driving me nuts. 

Help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by llamabr on 2011-10-21
take a screenshot with what application?  I use scrot, and it makes no noise.  gimp will take a screenshot.  I think ubuntu will even copy a screenshot using your 'print screen' button these days.  How are you doing it?

---

### Post by crdlb on 2011-10-21
> **bluetwinkle said:**
> I just noticed that the computer plays this awful camera-shutter sound whenever I take a screenshot. 

Does anyone know how to disable that?


You can mute the alert volume in the Sound settings panel, or you can disable event-sounds at org.gnome.desktop.interface.sound in dconf-editor.

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2011-10-21
Another very good, with lots of options is shutter - [http://shutter-project.org/]("http://shutter-project.org/")

sudo apt-get install shutter

---

### Post by Raff1 on 2012-01-25
> **llamabr said:**
> take a screenshot with what application?

I got the same "issue" and I am using the default PrtSc button (in the Gnome3 shell).

> **crdlb said:**
> You can mute the alert volume in the Sound  settings panel, or you can disable event-sounds at  org.gnome.desktop.interface.sound in dconf-editor.

Muting system alert volume also mutes login sound and incoming Skype calls. A bit on the overkill side for me. 

About disabling event-sounds, that did the work for me (it seems). At least I ca hear incoming Skype calls :-)

---

### Post by Raff1 on 2012-01-28
> **Raff1 said:**
> 

About disabling event-sounds, that did the work for me (it seems). At least I can hear incoming Skype calls :-)

... However, this also disabled my login sound. So where is the shutter sound located? I would very much like to delete it altogether.

---

