---
title: "10.04 LTS vs 10.04 Netbook Remix"
date: 2010-06-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BeWop on 2010-06-11
I'm looking for what would be better for my little netbook, honest comparisons if you would.
I use it for oldschool games (PSX emulation, Black and White, Knights of the Old Republic), schoolwork (both cases I'd use open office, so it doesn't matter in the slightest), and basic internet browsing/youtube/msn/facebook.

Specs:
Intel N450 1.66 Ghz
1 GB Ram - DDR2
160 HDD Hard Drive
Intel GMA 3150

Honestly I can't tell much of a difference between the two, but I haven't been on them long. I am aware that the GUI is different, but both can just go to GNOME anyway...

Another question, just tagging this on so I don't have to make two threads, I have read that Intel GMA 3150 drivers are available for linux, though I haven't been able to install it, I have read that it should soon be integrated (Current stable version is like 9.10 or something, and 10 is the one that supports it.) Is there a date that it will be integrated? If it isn't soon, I guess I'll need help installing it. 
Here's the page, if you have no idea what I'm talking about: [http://intellinuxgraphics.org/index.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/index.html)

---

### Post by agamjain on 2010-06-11
I believe that Ubuntu 10.04 Netbook Remix would be better for your netbook. I have used Ubuntu 10.04 as well as Ubuntu 10.04 Netbook Remix on my HCL MILEAP MV02 netbook, but got better performance results from the Netbook Remix Edition as it takes up little memory because it does not run all the applications as that of Ubuntu 10.04. The login and shutdown also seemed to happen faster in the case of Netbook Remix. But in the end, it's all a matter of choice.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2010-06-11
Yeah - agree Network remix is excellent for small screens and looks good as well.
Note that network remix runs on a basic Lucid config so the underlying system is the same as standard.

---

### Post by BeWop on 2010-06-11
Awesome, so basically, remix is just designed differently, and I'm getting the exact same system?

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-06-11
> **BeWop said:**
> Awesome, so basically, remix is just designed differently, and I'm getting the exact same system?

Correct.
The netbook remix is the same as the normal version except for the interface and some of the default programs that are installed. Everything else underneath is the same.

You can always do what I do on my netbook and have both the normal interface and remix interface installed, and choose with one to use at the login screen

---

### Post by BeWop on 2010-06-11
> **KdotJ said:**
> Correct.
The netbook remix is the same as the normal version except for the interface and some of the default programs that are installed. Everything else underneath is the same.

You can always do what I do on my netbook and have both the normal interface and remix interface installed, and choose with one to use at the login screen

That's exactly what I'm doing. I mostly use gnome, but I bet with a bit of customization I can learn to love and use the netbook interface, as it does have a lot of potential. =P

Thanks gentlemen.

---

