---
title: "10.04 desktop effects"
date: 2010-05-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-18
I have tried to run Compiz but am having problems in that I find that "desktop effects cannot be enabled".
 I ran compiz-check and got the following:

Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 10.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
 Driver in use:         intel
 Rendering method:      None

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...  [SKIP]

 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
 Error: No rendering method in use (AIGLX, Xgl or Nvidia) 

I checked my drivers in 'Hardware Drivers' and none are listed! 'no proprietory drivers are in use on this system.
my driver is Intel Corp Mobile 945GM/Gms943/940GML express graphics.
controller (Rev03).

Can anyone help please? please bear in mind I am a relative newbie and need simple explanations! Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Kmob810 on 2010-05-19
can anyone help me? I need to know what proprietary driver I need, how to find it and how to use it. 
Your help would be appreciated.
Thanks :)

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2010-05-22
I'm sorry to hear but my advise is: don't use compiz if your drivers aren't perfect. I havend used compiz until now cause this is the first edition where all goes well with my drivers. Installing proprietary dirvers is somethimes a pain because they aren't made for linux.

I know this advise might not please you but when you try to install drivers, you can mess up whole your system. Especially when you're a newbie.

PS: I have no problem when you PM me but I would like that you add a link to the forum post in the future.

---

### Post by _Mark_ on 2010-05-22
Try this [http://wiki.compiz.org/Intel%20with%20AiGLX](http://wiki.compiz.org/Intel%20with%20AiGLX)

Although it says if you are running 7.04 or above should be done for you would be worth checking, worked for me with the same Intel graphics but not on Ubuntu i hasten to add

---

