---
title: "7.10 Nvidia Low Graphics Mode 800x600 resolution"
date: 2008-01-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wolfdreamer on 2008-01-26
I am having problems with "nvidia" drivers and screen resolution. When Ubuntu 7.10 starts, it gives me an a prompt stating that its starting in "Low Graphics Mode" because the settings could not be auto detected. The first time this happened I was able to go into and edit the video driver and screen resolution manually through the gnome menu and I was able to have the driver load and screen resolution fine. After rebooting I cant even do that, and after some searching I ran 
"sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg"

which detected all the settings correctly wrote the configuration file and everything loaded fine. But then after rebooting that no longer works. 

When ubuntu starts the screen flickers at a shell login like its having problems starting X and then states the issue with the "Low Graphics Mode", after logging I run run 

"lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV41 [GeForce 6800 GS] (rev a2)"

AND
"lsmod | grep nvidia
nvidia               4716468  0 
i2c_core               26112  7 wm8775,cx25840,tuner,ivtv,i2c_algo_bit,nvidia,tveeprom
agpgart                35016  2 nvidia,intel_agp
"

I am thinking somethings wrong with either my nvidia driver not loading or my configuration file, anybody have any ideas?

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-01-26
Install the Nvidia drivers using:-
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new
```

Then enable them using:-
```
sudo nvidia-settings --config enable
```

After that reconfigure your X-Server, see if that solves your problem.

---

### Post by wolfdreamer on 2008-01-26
And the Gods lowered down to PmDematagoda the gift of the correct answer, thanks!!

---

### Post by wolfdreamer on 2008-01-27
Ok, after restarting my computer this solution is no longer works, even after trying to repeat the steps I am unable to have X not start in "Low Graphics Mode" with the vesa driver.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-01-28
In Recovery Mode, do:-
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
after reconfiguration is done, do:-
```
sudo startx
```

See if that solves your problem.

---

### Post by wolfdreamer on 2008-01-28
I am pretty sure the root of my problem before was that I was using the wrong driver. Ive switched to using the "nv" driver instead of "nvidia" (nvidia-glx). I am know consitently being able to switch and load the driver, i.e. start X in non-low graphics mode. Except when I first boot up, which is still starting in "Low Graphics Mode".

---

### Post by PinkFloyd102489 on 2008-01-28
EDIT: Didnt read your latest post. Download nvidia-settings from the repositories and play with the screen resolution in it. I had some problems with xorg.conf screwing up and even though nvidia-settings is editing the xorg.conf, it fixed it for me.

---

### Post by Dbyte on 2008-01-28
Similar problem to WolfDreamer here.  I installed a NVidia GeForce 7600GT card recently.  Downloaded the restricted drivers thru Synaptic Package Manager.  In the Restricted Drivers Manager it shows as being enabled & in use.  When I launch the NVidia XServer Settings (under System Tools) I get a message stating: *"You do not appear to be using the NVidia X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run 'nvidia xconfig' as root), and restart the X server."*  In a terminal I ran sudo 'nvidia-xconfig' & did ctrl-alt-bkspce to restart X server.  When I try to rerun NVidia XServer Settings I get the same popup message.  After all this when I go to the the Screen and Graphics Preferences, Graphics Card tab, the graphics card is listed as being "vesa - Generic VESA-compliant video cards".  I then go thru the *Choose driver by model* dialog to set it as "NVidia GeForce 7 series" & change the screen settings to LCD Panel 1280x1024.  Everything looks fine, but I still can't enable any desktop effects.  Rererunning the NVidia XServer Settings app gets me the same popup message yet again.

After all this there is no change when I reboot.  Low graphics mode returns & all my changes are gone.  I have already tried the commands suggested by PmDematagoda - no effect whatsoever.

Any advice &/or instruction is **greatly** appreciated.

---

### Post by zarqoon on 2008-01-29
I got the same problem as dbyte. I just switched out my ati x800 for a 7800gt because the nvidia driver is supposed to work better, And now it does not work at all. I've tried a lot of stuff but it just does not work.

---

### Post by zarqoon on 2008-01-29
I just fixed my problem. I just forgot to plug in the external power connector of the graphics board.

---

### Post by Dbyte on 2008-01-30
Zarqoon, my external power connector has always been connected.  The power feed is shared w/ my 2 hard drives, but I don't believe that should matter as the drives aren't pulling lots of power.  My power supply is rated for 250w, which should be adequate to power it (& does in Windows).  @ this point I do not believe this is a power issue.

Is there any config file &/or settings I can post here to help shed some light on a root cause of this problem?

---

### Post by jdwhitfield on 2008-02-02
Ditto.  After spending a couple of hours screwing up my comp, I think the problem is that the nvidia drivers and the kernel don't match but I'm not savvy enough to be sure that its the cause or really investigate much further. 

One trick that did work for me is disabling the restricted drivers but it means that you can't have any graphical effects or run accelerated rendering.

JDW

---

### Post by zarqoon on 2008-02-03
I found out what was wrong from xorg log file.They are located in /var/log/xorg.0.log for the last boot. Or if you use the graphical manager so set a driver and resolution and klick test there the log file is /var/log/xorg.9.log. Try reading through these looking for error messages.

---

### Post by jdwhitfield on 2008-02-04
I looked through the boot file and it told me that it was loading from xorg.conf.failsafe.  I want it to load from the xorg.conf file I made or at least see the error that that xorg.conf generated.  Does anyone know which boot log that would be in?

JDW

---

### Post by Dbyte on 2008-02-04
I ran a repair on Grub (which recreates menu.lst), & the updated boot menu included a new set of Ubuntu boot choices, all of which ended in "386".  I chose the 1st of these & the Nvidia driver loaded & worked!  But now I have to figure out how to reenable desktop effects.  Restricted drivers are enabled & the settings for the graphics card & monitor are correct.  But when I try to enable the effects thru the Appearance GUI I get a response that it can't be done.  I will search the forums on that to see what others have done.

So it looks like the NVidia settings were applied to a portion of the OS that wasn't the default.  I haven't updated the kernel in weeks so I don't know how else this could have happened.

---

### Post by zarqoon on 2008-02-04
> **jdwhitfield said:**
> I looked through the boot file and it told me that it was loading from xorg.conf.failsafe.  I want it to load from the xorg.conf file I made or at least see the error that that xorg.conf generated.  Does anyone know which boot log that would be in?

JDW

I think it gets overwritten. But try to set the nvidia driver and display mode with System->Administration->Screens and Graphics and then klick on the test button there. On my system this failed without any error message, but it writes /var/log/xorg.9.log while trying to load the driver. I found my error in there written in plain understandable text in the middle of all the masses of numbers and stuff.

---

### Post by Dbyte on 2008-02-04
I finally have everything working: graphics card driver is 100% correctly set up, no screen resolution issues, all hardware properly detected @ startup, & desktop effects enabled.  How?  In a word, [_Envy_]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html").  Downloaded & installed it, & Envy took care of **everything**.  This software should be the poster child for future Ubuntu development.

---

### Post by wuher on 2008-02-06
> **Dbyte said:**
> How?  In a word, [_Envy_]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html").


Amen to that. Took care of my problems too.

---

### Post by ZarathustraDK on 2008-02-13
This is strange, I have the same problems as mentioned. I'm on a Nvidia 7800 GT. Everything was working fine until I did a kernel-update, now I'm stuck in low-graphics mode.

I tried reinstalling the drivers manually and it went well a couple of times, it reverted to low-graphics mode on restart though. Envy didn't do the trick for me.

---

### Post by jKeats3 on 2008-02-21
Same issue as Zarathustra here.  Envy does not work.  I can install the NVIDIA driver 169.0x manually and then restart X, which works for that session, but everything is back to crap at reboot.  

I am running the nForce chipset 630i with integrated Geforce 7150 video for low power consumption.

By watching Envy do its work, it looks like it just installed the 169.0x driver just as I would have myself.  Anywho, the result was the same, and I went straight into low-graphics mode at reboot.

Of course, this all happened only after I did a software upgrade.  I don't typically pay attention to what packages are being upgraded, because I don't usually care, but from what people are saying, it's likely that this is all because of the kernel update.

Is there any hope for us?  Is the only solution that Nvidia release a new driver that is compatible with this kernel?

---

### Post by jKeats3 on 2008-02-22
Oops, I feel silly; I just solved my own problem.  

I was using an outdated driver.  I upgraded from nvidia driver version 169.04 to 169.07, and now my graphics setup is recognized correctly on restart.

Hooray to nVidia for having active linux driver maintenance!

---

### Post by miqsu on 2008-02-22
I'm using 169.07 drivers, downloaded from Nvidia webpage and installed correctly. Nothing else, just sudo sh driverpackage, and then start x again. Works until I reboot.

Also tried to install nvidia-glx package with apt-get. Same, crap after reboot.

Should I try nvidia-glx-new and that other command posted earlier?
EDIT: this one: sudo nvidia-settings --config enable

and btw, i'm using 8600GT.

---

### Post by ZarathustraDK on 2008-02-22
I don't know if this applies to some of the other people, but I seem to have problems updating my xorg.conf with sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, nvidia xconfig, Envy or any other autoconfig-functions. For instance, even if I say yes to "write default files-section to configuration" nothing has changed when I open it afterwards, files-section is just empty.

169.07 drivers
Nvidia 7800 GT

---

### Post by chayzer on 2008-03-03
I've had nothing but bad experiences with linux and nvidia in general. The only distro that had a livecd that i've ever seen boot on my desktop with a geforce 6600 is PCLinuxOS. Now trying to get something working on my htpc with a 630i chipset, integrated geforce 7150.

Envy told me my card wasn't supported.

Was about to stuff the old PCLOS disc into my htpc because I was getting frustrated when I tried the following,

Had nvidia-glx-new, and nvidia-settings packages installed. Then in one last try I removed them completely, downloaded the drivers from Nvidia site, ran that and presto.. all of a sudden it works. Reboots fine, driver is loaded. No idea why that worked. I pissed with this computer for a few hours on sat.

I've also got the restriced drivers manager set to not start automatically, restriced-modules installed, and.... who knows what else. Either way it is possible to get it working apparently.

---

### Post by opportunity on 2008-03-07
yeah 630i chipset with integrated geforce 7150 is hella tricky to setup. Maybe someone on the hw incompat task force can look into it to make it smooth for the next release of ubuntu.

---

### Post by gwk on 2008-04-26
Holy smokes, never even noticed that I forgot the external power connector to the graphics card. As soon as I connected the external power and booted up there was no warning and I was able to use the full resolution without scrolling.

Card was an nVidia 7950GT.

Thanks for the answer guys.

---

### Post by sweBers on 2008-05-29
I seem to have the same problem.  I've been using Gutsy and just recently updated to hardy.  The problem seems to happen every time I update my system to a certain extent, usually involving a kernel update or some other maintenance.

The only way I have been able to resolve this is reinstalling the current driver I have, or if a new one is available installing the new one instead.

---

