---
title: "8.04 very slow"
date: 2008-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JasonCfirefox on 2008-11-09
Hello i been having some problems with this just going very slow, when i go on the net and put a password in it has a delay between typing and when you see the text, also streaming vids run frame by frame.

Had problems with graphic glitches, say i go to print something or open  an other program, it loads the box in black and you have to move the mouse for everything to appear, if im in office word and i move mouse on an icon sometimes it goes black.

Dint have any of these problem with the previous version of ubuntu, any ideas ? :confused:

---

### Post by pietjanjaap on 2008-11-09
Think it is compiz, so check your videcard driver and compiz.
Maybe your pc is to slow for compiz.
Look for "howto+compiz" with google, then you find how to let compiz not start on boot.

Stop Compiz-Fusion From Loading Automatically

This guide will show you how to stop Compiz-Fusion from loading automatically on startup in Hardy Heron and how to setup a shortcut for launching Compiz when you want.

Step 1: Run gconf-edit
Start Run Application by pressing Alt+F2

Screenshot-Run Application

Enter gconf-editor into the box, hit enter


Step 2: Set Metacity as your default start up window manager
Once in gconf-editor navigate to desktop>gnome>applications>window_manager

Screenshot-Configuration Editor - window_manager

under current and default replace each instance of:
/usr/bin/compiz with /usr/bin/metacity
it should like this when you're done:

Screenshot-Configuration Editor - window_manager-1



Step 3: Create a shortcut for starting Compiz-Fusion
right click the Applications Places System Menu
select the Edit Menu option

Screenshot-Main Menu

pick a location for your shortcut and select New Item box

Screenshot-Launcher Properties
Type: Application
Name: Compiz
Command: compiz --replace
COmment compiz window manager

---

### Post by JasonCfirefox on 2008-11-10
Ok mate i just did, will let you know how it works

---

### Post by JasonCfirefox on 2008-11-13
Its working better, still have some of the problems but less often and its faster than it was :) much better

---

### Post by lifestream on 2008-11-20
Is the Search/Tracker turned on? If you don't use it, and I doubt you do, do this:


SYSTEM->PREFERENCES->SEARCH AND INDEXING.
Look through all the options, and set everything to the lowest setting, turn everything off.

This will make your PC soooooooooo muuuuuchhhh faster...

---

