---
title: "10.04 I need help dimming backlight"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kcxzero on 2012-04-29
So with 10.10 no longer being supported I downgraded to 10.04 LTS because it seems my hardware is just not compatible with 12.04 yet (example: can't shutdown my system).

System: Sony VAIO VGN-SZ750N
OS: Ubuntu 10.04

Previously, on 10.10 I worked around the backlight issue by installing nvclock and using smartdimmer. However, on 10.04 I keep getting the message segmentation fault. The bright light is really hard on the eyes and it sucks the life out of my battery making it hard to use around campus. So any help will be appreciated. Thanks, and have a good day.

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-04-29
Have a look at the instructions in the "Bug Description" section of this bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hotkey-setup/+bug/95444]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hotkey-setup/+bug/95444")

---

### Post by kcxzero on 2012-04-29
Thanks for the reply. I don't mean to sound like a total noob, but I've never used cvs so I'm unsure what I'm suppose to put in the <email address hidden> My best guess is it would be anonymous@... If you could help me out with that, I would really appreciate it.

However, I did some further reading down in that link you gave me and someone mentioned switching to stamina mode. Since stamina mode switches to the second graphics card, this has allowed me to utilize *display brightness* through *power management*. I honestly never thought about that. It makes me curious to know if I can properly run 12.04 now lol. All the issues I tend to run into normally have to do with that graphics card so.

Anyway, I'm fine running my system in stamina mode as I don't game or anything. But it would be nice if I could fully utilize my system, so if you know what I should put in <email address hidden> that would be really nice. Thanks, I really appreciate it.

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-04-29
After some checking, I believe it is:
```
anonymous@nvclock.cvs.sourceforge.net
```
...(password is blank)

yep, just tested it.

---

### Post by kcxzero on 2012-05-01
Thanks! I really appreciate your help. For anyone else reading this in the future, if your system has dual modes like mine and you're running into compatibility issues give stamina mode a shot. My hardware in stamina mode, from what I can tell so far, is completely compatible and everything "Just Works."

I"ll most likely be booting into stamina mode the majority of the time. However, if I need a little more it's nice to know I also have the option of using speed mode without hurting my eyes, lol. Thanks again.

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-05-01
It might be a good idea to mark this thread as Solved using the "Thread Tools" link above so its easier for others to find.

---

### Post by kcxzero on 2012-05-05
Thanks for the reminder. I always forget about that.

---

