---
title: "xubuntu stuck on startup with msWindows screen"
date: 2009-08-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by V Boti on 2009-08-31
I had a display problem in Xubuntu 9.4 the screen resolution reset ewery time I restart, I searched in forums and trying to resolve this I messed up totally something. Now after the system is loaded the screen flickers a few times and the blue "windows is shutting down" screen appears and the whole system is stuck (I have xp installed too) 
I have no any video driver installed.

---

### Post by d_yat on 2009-08-31
wait, the windows blue screen of death appears?
Are you sure the computer isn't booting windows automatically?
Should probably sort that out first. My PC has done this before, after windows tries to update.

I think what is happening is that you turn on PC, GRUB loads (this is used to select between windows and xubuntu) and automatically chooses windows, then windows fails for some reason on bootup.

Try this:
When it is booting up (if it is booting windows), press F8 early on (after the Grub loader, but before the windows loading screen). You will get a windows boot menu, from here you can select to boot windows "Last Known Good Configuration (your most recent settings that worked)"

That should solve the windows problem.

After that has been sorted, next step is to sort out the grub menu. Will post more in a bit, but if you can, try watching out for the grub menu, and selecting xubuntu before the time runs out (may/may not work depending on what's up with it)

Hope that solves one problem at least.

---

### Post by d_yat on 2009-08-31
OH WAIT!

another memory has appeared in my head.
Do you mean that you bootup xubuntu and instead of seeing stuff you want to see, something like 'the past remains of booting windows' appears? I think it does that when it tries to read of the memory from the graphics card...
anyway, is that what you mean by the windows screen appears? if so, you can ignore my last post. I do have another idea though.

(you can see if it is this by turning off the powersupply for PC laptop(battery), for a bit, and then see if it has that thing)

---

### Post by d_yat on 2009-08-31
> **d_yat said:**
> OH WAIT!

another memory has appeared in my head....

anyway, so if this is the case, at the grub menu, try booting into "(recovery mode)"
Hopefully this will load into the recovery menu (eventually). From here you can use the menu option to try to fix the X/display/graphics problem automatically, which may solve your problem. Or you could try booting normally and see what messages appear, which would be interesting to see, but the option to fix graphics problem should do.

ok. I am awake now, I've had my morning tea!

---

### Post by V Boti on 2009-08-31
Windows is working fine, (I`m on windows now) automatic updates are turned off, and when staring Xubuntu, the Xubuntu loading page appears and when the loading finished appears the windows screen, but in a strage way, sometimes appears the windows screen only, and sometimes combined with the Xubuntu loading logo

---

### Post by d_yat on 2009-08-31
hmm. ok then. Well that sounds like it might be solved by booting into recovery mode and selecting the fix graphics problem from the menu when that loads.
try it!

---

### Post by V Boti on 2009-08-31
I have tryed to fix graphic problem, but does not work, I have also tryed from the root prompt these:

dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg

I have installed metacity, then : gdm start

does not work none of these

---

### Post by d_yat on 2009-08-31
hmm. ok. at the start you said that you tried to resolve a resolution problem? Does this mean that you edited an xorg.conf file at any point? If so, is there any chance that you made a backup/copy of one? If so, you could revert back to the old one. If not, then...
lets look at your xorg.conf file! (found here -> /etc/X11/xorg.conf)

Mind you, while you are in the X11 folder, you could see if there are any previous versions of the xorg.conf file that you could use instead. Just so you can have a graphical system again.

hmm... ok, now I am running out of ideas. If someone else is reading this, feel free to jump in!

---

### Post by V Boti on 2009-08-31
i have many backups of the xorg.conf, but all are the same and looks like this:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by d_yat on 2009-08-31
> **V Boti said:**
> 

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



I think on this part there should be more.
I have a failsafe xorg.conf file (aptly names xorg.conf.failsafe)

and that has for that part
"
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
[B][COLOR="Red"]	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"[/COLOR][/B]
EndSection
"
The vesa driver should work for anything pretty much. you should be able to copy the 2 red lines onto that bit. Although, you may need to change the BusID to wherever your graphics card is
This can be found out by typing in the terminal "lspci" amongst the list that produces, you will find your graphics card.

If that works, (so you can see in a graphical interface) then we are getting somewhere!
After that, you should be able to alter it some more to get it working as you want it to.

---

