---
title: "18.04: startup SH script without GUI?"
date: 2018-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gilius2 on 2018-05-14
In 18.04 GUI I can add a .SH file to the Startup Programs via the menus in the top-right. However, does anyone know how I might get a script to automatically run at startup *without the GUI and no interaction*? ANY HELP WOULD BE MUCH APPRECIATED!!!

---

### Post by papibe on 2018-05-14
**Thread moved to General Help.**

---

### Post by papibe on 2018-05-14
Hi gilius2. Welcome to the forum ):P

There are a few options:
[LIST=1]
[*]Create a systemd service (complicated).
[*]Call your script in /etc/rc.local (risk of your system not properly booting).
[*]RECOMENDED: create a crontab using @reboot
Example:
```
@reboot /path/to/your/script.sh
```
[/LIST]
You may need to modify your script since you'll loose some of the obvious things, like where the script it is executed (use absolute paths), some programs won't available unless you call them using absolute paths, etc.

Hope it helps. Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by gilius2 on 2018-05-14
Thanks for your reply, but I forgot to mention: I am a complete noob. What is crontrab? And how to create exactly on Ubuntu? Does it work on 18.04 version?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-05-14
> **gilius2 said:**
> In 18.04 GUI I can add a .SH file to the Startup Programs via the menus in the top-right. However, does anyone know how I might get a script to automatically run at startup *without the GUI and no interaction*? ANY HELP WOULD BE MUCH APPRECIATED!!!

No, not in gnome shell. This is by design (for what purpose other than generating user frustrations I cannot tell)

Edited: papibe's way would work by basically bypassing the DE but it is more complicated.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-05-14
Well would making a .desktop file (a "gui" as you called it) be acceptable to you? That would be the easiest way. I thought you meant you don't want a "GUI", maybe you just meant it doesn't have one.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-05-14
so the script runs an application that has a gui/window that loads when run, that you want to suppress/minimize/close?

can you post the script?

---

### Post by gilius2 on 2018-05-14
It's a script that runs a QEMU virtual machine, but I want to suppress the Ubuntu Desktop GUI so I can run it headless. In other words, I want to turn of X11 and still run a startup script/application that starts a spice server or VNC/SSH server. But I want to try to achieve all this without any interaction, i.e. no SSH connection/login needed and certainly no Desktop GUI.

---

### Post by gilius2 on 2018-05-14
**Win7.sh**

#!/bin/bash
cd /mnt/media_rw/D6A29B84A29B682F
sudo insmod kvm.ko
sudo insmod kvm-intel.ko
sudo qemu-system-x86_64 \
-m 2047 -smp 2 \
--usbdevice tablet -net nic,model=virtio \
-drive file=w7s.img,format=raw,cache=none,if=virtio \
-vga qxl -cpu host -enable-kvm \
-net user,hostfwd=tcp::5555-:3389,smb=/storage/emulated/0 \
-spice port=5900,addr=127.0.0.1,disable-ticketing

That starts my VM on Ubuntu 18.04 via LinuxDeploy on my ASUS Zenfone 2. I can then connect using a Spice Client (ASPICE), but the only problem is I need to run an additional app to display the GUI otherwise I cannot get the script started by itself.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-05-14
i can think of 2 options right now.
1. uninstall the login screen/app & setup a xinitrc
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CustomXSession](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CustomXSession)

2. create a custom session you can select at the login screen
[https://help.gnome.org/admin/system-admin-guide/stable/session-custom.html.en](https://help.gnome.org/admin/system-admin-guide/stable/session-custom.html.en)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-05-15
> **gilius2 said:**
> It's a script that runs a QEMU virtual machine, but I want to suppress the Ubuntu Desktop GUI so I can run it headless. In other words, I want to turn of X11 and still run a startup script/application that starts a spice server or VNC/SSH server. But I want to try to achieve all this without any interaction, i.e. no SSH connection/login needed and certainly no Desktop GUI.

The script is the hard way.

Use libvirt and virsh to set the VM to auto-start at boot. No users need to login.  It will happen thanks to libvirt.
You cannot run GUI applications via a boot-up solution.  Those need to wait until a GUI/login session is created.

After you login, you can create/delete/manage/edit VMs using virt-manager from the local machine or from any remote machine that has ssh connectivity.  You can also connect to the VM spice server from other systems too.

This is how people use VMs.  I've been doing it this way over a decade.

---

### Post by Roger_Williams on 2018-07-23
Since I have a question in the same vain I thought I would ask here instead of starting a new thread. I've got a laptop running Ubuntu 18.04 and I'm running RealVNC. Every time I boot I've got to run the command ```
sudo systemctl start vncserver-x11-serviced.service[COLOR=#333333][FONT=&quot] #systemd [/FONT][/COLOR]
``` to get it running. I'd like to write a script that runs after login that would get it running automatically. I've read through different sites, searched through the forums and I can't figure out how to get it done. I'm new to scripting btw.

---

