---
title: "Help Needed: Deleted Important OS Files, Unable to Boot Ubuntu 22.04"
date: 2024-06-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chan-1 on 2024-06-25
I was using Ubuntu 22.04 Jammy when I accidentally deleted critical OS-related files. Now, upon restarting, I'm stuck at a screen with options (boot, bios, continue) that do not lead anywhere, despite trying all available options.


To attempt recovery, I created a live USB with 'Ubuntu 22.04 Jammy' and followed the steps outlined in the [Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair") article. However, the problem persists.

I also tried the recommended boot repair, which led to a Grub screen  where I followed steps found online (e.g., ls, set prefix=(hd0,gpt1),  insmod linux, insmod normal, normal). This allowed me to access the boot  screen, but selecting 'ubuntu 22.04' to boot leads to nowhere.

I'm seeking assistance to fully resolve my boot issue. Below is a summary of the log generated by Boot-Repair:

[HTML]
boot-repair-4ppa2075                                              [20240625_2349]

============================== Boot Info Summary ===============================


sda: ___________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       zfs_member
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info: 

sdb: ___________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       iso9660
    Boot sector type:  Grub2 (v1.99-2.00)
    Boot sector info:  Grub2 (v1.99-2.00) is installed in the boot sector of 
                       sdb and looks at sector 0 of the same hard drive for 
                       core.img, but core.img can not be found at this 
                       location.
    Mounting failed:   mount: /mnt/BootInfo/FD/sdb: /dev/sdb already mounted or mount point busy.


================================ 1 OS detected =================================

OS#1:   Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS on sda2

================================ Host/Hardware =================================

CPU architecture: 64-bit
Video: Iris Plus Graphics G1 (Ice Lake) from Intel Corporation
Live-session OS is Ubuntu 64-bit (Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS, jammy, x86_64)

===================================== UEFI =====================================

BIOS/UEFI firmware: F.31(15.31) from Insyde
The firmware is EFI-compatible, and is set in EFI-mode for this live-session.
SecureBoot enabled according to mokutil - Please report this message to boot.repair@gmail.com.
BootCurrent: 0000
Timeout: 0 seconds
BootOrder: 0001,2001,3001,2002,2004
Boot0000* USB Hard Drive (UEFI) - SanDisk (SanDisk)    PciRoot(0x0)/Pci(0x14,0x0)/USB(0,0)/HD(2,GPT,abbd44c4-640c-4cea-acc9-ca38273f602e,0x955d78,0x2754)RC
Boot0001* ubuntu    HD(1,GPT,1c9753ce-fc8a-41d3-bfc8-27e9b5f59e45,0x800,0x100000)/File(\EFI\ubuntu\shimx64.efi)
Boot2001* EFI USB Device    RC
Boot3001* Internal Hard Disk or Solid State Disk    RC

64349b3622c65f495a99dbf6102496e3   sda1/BOOT/bkpbootx64.efi
64349b3622c65f495a99dbf6102496e3   sda1/BOOT/bootx64.efi
a9c517741ac31962d7feb152948ad1ee   sda1/BOOT/fbx64.efi
08f8d5b3a97b34771c04895ed83816ae   sda1/BOOT/grubx64.efi
a660182adef313615746a665966d2ccc   sda1/BOOT/mmx64.efi
a1da253696a304dce6b4668b70151c0e   sda1/ubuntu/grubx64.efi
a660182adef313615746a665966d2ccc   sda1/ubuntu/mmx64.efi
64349b3622c65f495a99dbf6102496e3   sda1/ubuntu/shimx64.efi

============================= Drive/Partition Info =============================

Disks info: ____________________________________________________________________

sda    : is-GPT,    no-BIOSboot,    has---ESP,     not-usb,    not-mmc, has-os,    no-wind,    2048 sectors * 512 bytes

Partitions info (1/3): _________________________________________________________

sda1    : no-os,    64, nopakmgr,    no-docgrub,    nogrub,    nogrubinstall,    grubenv-ng,    noupdategrub,    not-far
sda2    : is-os,    64, apt-get,    signed grub-pc grub-efi ,    grub2,    grub-install,    grubenv-ok,    update-grub,    end-after-100GB

Partitions info (2/3): _________________________________________________________

sda1    : is---ESP,    part-has-no-fstab,    no-nt,    no-winload,    no-recov-nor-hid,    no-bmgr,    notwinboot
sda2    : isnotESP,    fstab-has-goodEFI,    no-nt,    no-winload,    no-recov-nor-hid,    no-bmgr,    notwinboot

Partitions info (3/3): _________________________________________________________

sda1    : not--sepboot,    no---boot,    part-has-no-fstab,    not-sep-usr,    no---usr,    part-has-no-fstab,    no--grub.d,    sda
sda2    : not--sepboot,    no-kernel,    fstab-without-boot,    not-sep-usr,    with--usr,    fstab-without-usr,    std-grub.d,    sda

fdisk -l (filtered): ___________________________________________________________

Disk sda: 931.51 GiB, 1000204886016 bytes, 1953525168 sectors
Disk identifier: 0C52F077-2132-4817-866A-9DEA932F74C7
       Start        End    Sectors  Size Type
sda1     2048    1050623    1048576  512M EFI System
sda2  1050624 1953523711 1952473088  931G Linux filesystem
Disk sdb: 28.65 GiB, 30765219840 bytes, 60088320 sectors
Disk identifier: ABBD44C4-640C-4CEA-ACCB-CA38273F602E
       Start      End  Sectors  Size Type
sdb1       64  9788791  9788728  4.7G Microsoft basic data
sdb2  9788792  9798859    10068  4.9M EFI System
sdb3  9798860  9799459      600  300K Microsoft basic data
sdb4  9801728 60088256 50286529   24G Linux filesystem

parted -lm (filtered): _________________________________________________________

sda:1000GB:scsi:512:4096:gpt:ATA WDC WD10SPZX-60Z:;
1:1049kB:538MB:537MB:fat32:EFI System Partition:boot, esp;
2:538MB:1000GB:1000GB:ext4::;
sdb:30.8GB:scsi:512:512:gpt:SanDisk Cruzer Blade:;
1:32.8kB:5012MB:5012MB::ISO9660:hidden, msftdata;
2:5012MB:5017MB:5155kB::Appended2:boot, esp;
3:5017MB:5017MB:307kB::Gap1:hidden, msftdata;
4:5018MB:30.8GB:25.7GB:ext4::;

blkid (filtered): ______________________________________________________________

NAME   FSTYPE     UUID                                 PARTUUID                             LABEL                    PARTLABEL
sda    zfs_member 12711591662979465903                                                      rpool                    
&#9500;&#9472;sda1 vfat       9B54-0EB5                            1c9753ce-fc8a-41d3-bfc8-27e9b5f59e45                          EFI System Partition
&#9492;&#9472;sda2 ext4       bebfa2fe-fd4a-47e3-bd35-8884d639ff2b b5be2a85-6f22-4527-a999-975644caa2ce                          
sdb    iso9660    2024-02-20-19-39-27-00                                                    Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS amd64 
&#9500;&#9472;sdb1 iso9660    2024-02-20-19-39-27-00               abbd44c4-640c-4cea-acca-ca38273f602e Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS amd64 ISO9660
&#9500;&#9472;sdb2 vfat       927C-33D8                            abbd44c4-640c-4cea-acc9-ca38273f602e ESP                      Appended2
&#9500;&#9472;sdb3                                                 abbd44c4-640c-4cea-acc8-ca38273f602e                          Gap1
&#9492;&#9472;sdb4 ext4       e67d517e-ce1e-4bb7-9750-8bc186e3213b a8328f2f-706d-3a4b-ac5a-1a288d7e5b59 writable                 

Mount points (filtered): _______________________________________________________

                                                               Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1                                                     492.2M   4% /mnt/boot-sav/sda1
/dev/sda2                                                     229.5G  70% /mnt/boot-sav/sda2
/dev/sdb1                                                          0 100% /cdrom
efivarfs                                                       71.6K  60% /sys/firmware/efi/efivars

Mount options (filtered): ______________________________________________________

/dev/sda1                                                     vfat            rw,relatime,fmask=0022,dmask=0022,codepage=437,iocharset=iso8859-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro
/dev/sda2                                                     ext4            rw,relatime
/dev/sdb1                                                     iso9660         ro,noatime,nojoliet,check=s,map=n,blocksize=2048,iocharset=utf8



Suggested repair: ______________________________________________________________

The default repair of the Boot-Repair utility would reinstall the grub-efi-amd64-signed of
sda2,
using the following options:  kernel-purge sda1/boot/efi
Additional repair would be performed: unhide-bootmenu-10s use-standard-efi-file restore-efi-backups

Final advice in case of suggested repair: ______________________________________

Please do not forget to make your UEFI firmware boot on the Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS entry (sda1/efi/****/shim****.efi (**** will be updated in the final message) file) !
[/HTML]


Note: 
Although I am not aware of the files that were deleted, the command I suppose causing all the issue is 

[HTML]
sudo apt-get remove --purge $(dpkg -l 'linux-*' | grep '^ii' | grep -v $(uname -r | cut -d'-' -f1,2) | awk '{print $2}')
[/HTML]

---

### Post by currentshaft on 2024-06-25
Well, which files did you delete? Are we supposed to just guess?

---

### Post by crtroy83 on 2024-06-25
So I am fairly new to Ubuntu myself, but since you have a live USB have you tried looking in the file directory you were at when you deleted the file in question on the USB file directories to find the missing file and copying it then opening the unmounted computer drive and pasting it in there? Just an idea.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-06-25
You can screw around with this for days and if you don't know the missing files, you'll get nowhere.

Or you can install over the current install, being careful to choose all the same installation answers (seems you used ZFS at some point previously, for example), so be certain you do that again.

Before you do anything, you should backup any files to external media and disconnect it from the computer, unless you want to lose those files too.

You've learned a valuable lesson.  Don't delete stuff that requires sudo to delete it, unless you actually know what you are doing AND be certain to have excellent backups that YOU know how to restore.

BTW, boot repair can only fix a small number of boot-specific issues, not any possible issue we might cause or that failed hardware can have.

Sorry, I don't have 1 short command that will make it all better.

---

### Post by chan-1 on 2024-06-25
I am unsure about the files, but I suppose all the mess happened due to this command:

[HTML]
sudo apt-get remove --purge $(dpkg -l 'linux-*' | grep '^ii' | grep -v $(uname -r | cut -d'-' -f1,2) | awk '{print $2}')
[/HTML]

---

### Post by chan-1 on 2024-06-25
> **currentshaft said:**
> Well, which files did you delete? Are we supposed to just guess?

I updated the question and provided the command at the end, which might give you an idea of what might have been deleted.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-06-25
> **chan-1 said:**
> I am unsure about the files, but I suppose all the mess happened due to this command:

[HTML]
sudo apt-get remove --purge $(dpkg -l 'linux-*' | grep '^ii' | grep -v $(uname -r | cut -d'-' -f1,2) | awk '{print $2}')
[/HTML]

Why would you want to remove every package that began with "linux-"?  that's a great way to get a broken system.  Where ever you got that command, is either out to ruin your life OR you didn't read the caveats around using it correctly.

Do a fresh install.

---

### Post by currentshaft on 2024-06-25
> **chan-1 said:**
> I am unsure about the files, but I suppose all the mess happened due to this command:

[HTML]
sudo apt-get remove --purge $(dpkg -l 'linux-*' | grep '^ii' | grep -v $(uname -r | cut -d'-' -f1,2) | awk '{print $2}')
[/HTML]

Unfortunate, but you can rescue the system.

Boot to a live Ubuntu or Debian image (from a USB stick, for example).

Mount your hard drive, navigate to /var/log/apt and check the end of history.log to see which packages were removed.

chroot /mnt/hd /bin/bash

Use apt to re-install the packages you removed.

Reboot and cross your fingers.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2024-06-25
You didn't actually specify what Ubuntu product, and that does matter...

If it was a Ubuntu Desktop system for example; you can *non-destructively* re-install the system, which allows you to re-install all *deb* packages, and is the easy fix I learnt about when I started using Ubuntu (*and loved about it*)...   That isn't the same option if you're asking about a Ubuntu Server system though...

I talk about it here - [https://askubuntu.com/questions/446102/how-to-reinstall-ubuntu-in-the-easiest-way/1451533#1451533](https://askubuntu.com/questions/446102/how-to-reinstall-ubuntu-in-the-easiest-way/1451533#1451533)

I only note you mentioning the release (ie. 22.04), but nothing about if that's a Desktop? Server? or *flavor?*...  The *non-destructive* re-install is best where Ubuntu repository packages are used (*what its intended for*) and can be great, or not so great depending on what 3rd party packages you'll use (*here you should assume you'll need to re-install those; unless you were careful in your selection prior to install*)... 

This in effect is an *unclean* install option you have available.. and something I used frequently when something I was *trying* ended up not being so great, but still use today in QAon occasion, where the expected result after a re-install is no change to my installed system (*but if I examine the file-system I'll note all deb packages match a new install, file-system dates showing time of the re-install etc*).

I would still try and *fix* the system first, but if its a Desktop system, you have an *easier* *unclean* option rather than a *clean* install... Ensure you have backups of you data regardless.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2024-06-25
If it just deleted kernel, Boot-Repair's advanced mode lets you totally reinstall grub & the latest kernel.
I might try that first.
Advanced mode screends
[https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)

If you do not check format which we normally do, then are re-install keeps any files that are unique.
It overwrites your configuration files, so if you modified those, only your backups would allow you to restore them.

Good backup still required.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuReinstallation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuReinstallation)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2496620](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2496620)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-06-25
> **currentshaft said:**
>  
Use apt to re-install the packages you removed.

Reboot and cross your fingers.

It isn't that easy.  For non-boot files, it is close, but more needs to be done related to the chroot.

For someone new to Linux, it is much easier to just do a fresh install rather than screw around for a few days trying to get the exact commands correct and getting more and more frustrated.  A fresh install will be 100x easier.

---

### Post by currentshaft on 2024-06-26
> **TheFu said:**
> It isn't that easy.  For non-boot files, it is close, but more needs to be done related to the chroot.

For someone new to Linux, it is much easier to just do a fresh install rather than screw around for a few days trying to get the exact commands correct and getting more and more frustrated.  A fresh install will be 100x easier.

Easier, perhaps, but the experience gained from pulling off an epic rescue job is more valuable. And OP seems spirited and capable enough of performing such a feat.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-06-26
> **currentshaft said:**
> Easier, perhaps, but the experience gained from pulling off an epic rescue job is more valuable. And OP seems spirited and capable enough of performing such a feat.

Breaking your system and fixing it IS a valuable way to force learning some skills. Even the attempt to fix it, and failure will teach some important lessons.

OTOH, I suspect the main lesson has already been learned - don't delete system files that you don't specifically know are safe to delete.  That's the main thing to be learned here.

BTW, I've done what you did too - just long before I ever heard of APT.  I learned much and never needed to relearn that lesson again.

IMHO, learning that backups are important and having a restore method that takes 30-45 minutes is the real lesson here.  Being able to restore a system in 30-45 minutes will solve all sorts of issues, beyond just a few specific cases. There are thousands of problems that having excellent backups AND being able to restore them quickly can solved.  

Automatic, daily, versioned, backups are my #1 security tool as well. I've used versioned backups to determine when a system was cracked, how it was cracked, restore it to the point just prior to the cracking, and closed the method used by the nefarious types so they couldn't get in again.  Without versioned backups, none of that would have been possible.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2024-06-27
> **chan-1 said:**
> I am unsure about the files, but I suppose all the mess happened due to this command:

[HTML]
sudo apt-get remove --purge $(dpkg -l 'linux-*' | grep '^ii' | grep -v $(uname -r | cut -d'-' -f1,2) | awk '{print $2}')
[/HTML]

The purpose of this command appears to be to remove old kernels. What it actually does is to remove all packages with a name starting with linux- and not containing the version string of your current kernel. On my system, that would also remove linux-base, linux-firmware, linux-generic, linux-headers-generic, linux-image-generic and linux-sound-base. Some of these contain important stuff, other are required to get kernel upgrades automatically. The list could be different on your system. The logs can tell you. Reinstaling the removed packages in a chroot environment using a live disk can fix this. This isn't exactly a beginners' skill, but there are manuals. Be prepared for an even greater mess, so check your backups.

The easy way to solve this is a non-destructive re-install, as explained by guiverc, if you can.

Using such a command to remove old kernels isn't needed to keep your system clean. Using default settings, old kernels are made automatically removable, keeping just one old kernel as a spare. You can remove them with```
sudo apt autoremove --purge
```Or just wait for the upgrade manager to propose doing so.

---

