---
title: "11.10 too slow to start videos on Youtube"
date: 2011-11-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eilhart on 2011-11-11
I'm using Firefox. I regularly run Update Center and install updates. Does anyone have this problem? On the same computer I have also Windows installed and it doesn't have such problem. 90 % of the time I'm using Ubuntu for my daily stuff and I don't want to switch to Windows for Youtube.

My download speed is 8 mbits. I can watch videos without stopping them to wait them to load but it just takes more than a minute each video to start playing regardless of length of a video.

---

### Post by bobsageek on 2011-11-11
System specs? Network connection type? Browser? Flash version? All good places to start. For a point of reference I'm running 11.10 on an Atom D535 (dual core 1.8 ghz) w/integrated GMA3150 and a wired connection to my router and Youtube snaps right up and loads in Firefox 7 or the latest build of Chromium, although I'm still on Flash 10.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2011-11-11
That is more likely to be an effect of YouTube's own cap system. Essentially, they limit the bandwidth from their server to you, most likely to balance the load in the network. I am not sure, but I also think download speed depends on the server that delivers the video to you, since the videos are stored in multiple mirrors.

Try to change the video resolution. Whenever the speed is too slow, switching resolution can help. I have experienced different speed with different resolutions, not because of video size, but because high resolutions are generally delivered faster.

---

### Post by scarleo on 2011-11-11
Don't know if this is your problem but I had a lot of strange flash troubles after upgrading to 11.10. It turned out to be multiple conflicting flash plugins installed. There was a add on for Firefox that took care of uninstalling all but the one needed, that solved everything for me. Sorry but I don't remember the name of it, maybe you can find it if you search.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2011-11-11
> **scarleo said:**
> Don't know if this is your problem but I had a lot of strange flash troubles after upgrading to 11.10. It turned out to be multiple conflicting flash plugins installed. There was a add on for Firefox that took care of uninstalling all but the one needed, that solved everything for me. Sorry but I don't remember the name of it, maybe you can find it if you search.

It is Flash-Aid. I am the developer btw. ;-)

---

### Post by eilhart on 2011-11-11
I tried Flash-Aid. There was only one plugin installed. It was stable Flash 11 from repository. I uninstalled it with Flash-Aid wizard and installed beta plugin. It is still the same.

On same netbook, Windows 7 doesn't have this problem. Could it be really Youtube's capping causing this?

Specs: Freshly installed (not updated from previous version), regularly updated Ubuntu 11.10

Intel Atom N270 1,6 Ghz*2
Intel 945 GMA integrated video
1 Gb ram

DSL connection, 8 mbits, connecting with wireless
Firefox 7.0.1, canonical 1.0
Adobe Flash 11

I didn't know I could load videos faster on higher resolutions. I thought opposite was true. Thanks for pointing that out.

While I was upgrading Ubuntu 11.04 to 11.10 (before doing a complete reinstall), there was an error about Adobe Flash during upgrade. I thought it was the problem again. Also, my wireless wouldn't work and computer hung while shutting down. So, I did a clean install.

I've been using Ubuntu since 9.10, upgrading with the new releases. My command knowledge is very poor. When an issue comes up, I can follow directions with given commands which I find on forums or on the web.

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-11
> **eilhart said:**
> I'm using Firefox. 

You should try Chrome or Chromium to check if you have the same problem.

---

### Post by eilhart on 2011-11-12
I installed lubuntu desktop from software center. It came with Chromium. I still have the problem.

---

### Post by eilhart on 2011-11-26
The problem is gone. I'm still using Chromium on Lubuntu. I guess the recent updates may have fixed the problem but I'm not sure. The videos on Youtube are starting almost instantly now like it's supposed to.

---

