---
title: "file permission for mounted hard drive"
date: 2007-06-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mckechan on 2007-06-21
My files are all kept on an FAT 32 partition of my Windows hard drive. Ubuntu automatically mounts this drive bit I want to change the permissions so that when I am in Ubuntu I don't have to enter a password to access the files.

Chmod, chgrpp et al are not working.

Thanks for any help...

---

### Post by denver on 2007-06-21
you will have to edit your /etc/fstab and add the option umask=000 to gave 777 rights on all files.

The line in /etc/fstab would look something like:

```
/dev/sda1    /mnt    vfat      umask=000    0      0
```

make sure you change your device name and mount point to the rite values

---

### Post by atria on 2007-06-21
umask=000 is not exactly safe if you don't want other people to have write access to your disk volume.

```
umask=077,uid=xxxx
```
will only give read/write/execute permissions to the user you specified using the uid.

You can find the UIDs of users in /etc/passwd

---

### Post by mckechan on 2007-06-21
Thanks very much.

 In a way this sort of thing is why I preferred Fedora cause you learned everything upon set up...

---

### Post by mckechan on 2007-06-21
Actually I think I need more help. The line in my fstab is:

/dev/hdb5   /media/THE_VAULT   vfat    iocharset=utf8, umask=000  0    0

However, I think it is getting mounted some other way as the 'THE_VAULT' directiry in /media is empty. It is mounted  on 'THE VAULT' dir in media and I have to enter my password to access it.

'THE VAULT'  without hte underscore is the name of my drive in Windows. Also I have XP installed twice on partitions called XP GAMES' and  'XP GENERAL' and they are mounted but it doesn't look like they are mounted in fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=66fcedf5-ccb4-4b5b-8989-3eb9838c0902 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=c3fa6df4-e459-49f9-b2d0-406b02297b36 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hdb5   /media/THE_VAULT   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/hdb1   /media/hdb1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

---

