---
title: "MM 10.10  viewing Vista shares over LAN; doesn't list all data and folders"
date: 2011-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rl78 on 2011-04-20
1. Maverick Meerkat 10.10
2. Vista Ultimate 

I'm successfully connecting to my Vista desktop via my laptop running MM;
I can view my shares but not all my data. All top level shares seem to be visible, it's when I go deeper that I notice not everything is showing up. 
The folders are accessible if I type the full path, and then again I have the same issue once I'm inside that folder where not all data is visible.

In Nautilus setting: Edit>Pref>Preview Tab

I set preview for all files under 4GB which is the upper limit I can set.
This made more files visible but not everything.

I attempted to divide the directories in order to halve the size of the folders, this helped but not completely. 

The directories contain movie and picture files. The picture files are easier to divide more equitably between folders, but the movies being so large, managing folders sizes in that way doesn't help. I really don't want to divide my files according to this problem anyway. Sorting does not affect which folders and files are shown. Nothing is hidden, options to show hidden files on amd off, no help.

Any1 recognize what's going on here? Thanks in advanced for any help and time given here.

My initial search for a solution led me to this thread, which the OP has a similiar problem. I thought I helped but nah. 


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10687330#post10687330](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10687330#post10687330)

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2011-04-20
hi,
...am not using MM as of yet, but i do recall having a parellel problem whence i was still in karmic...you can do a search about hdd formats, it may have some bearings with the issue at hand.

---

### Post by rl78 on 2011-04-20
Did you ever solve your parallel problem?

---

### Post by rl78 on 2011-04-20
just to add, I booted into to live ubuntu from disc and have the same problem.

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2011-04-23
...if i remember correctly, my problem then has something to do with ntfs, installed a needed file and things went on ok.

---

### Post by rl78 on 2011-04-30
I wanted to update this thread and keep it alive, as I have still not found a solution. I'm running NN but still have the same problem. To restate, I have a Compaq Presario V3100CTO running NN 11.04 on my local network. When I view folders on my desktop running Vista Ultimate using Nautilus, not all of the directories and or files are visible in the window. I can access directories and files that are not shown by typing the path in. I have tried a few different file managers (Dolphin, smb4k) and a few others and still have this behavior. The files and folders that aren't visible are always the same, regardless of sort. 

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by rl78 on 2011-12-19
This issue seems to be resolved as of the last update to 11.04 12/18/11.  If I find exactly what fixed it, I will post back with the details.

---

