---
title: "What's Ubuntu's default MTA?"
date: 2006-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dpm on 2006-04-30
Could anyone tell me what is the default Mail Transfer Agent in ubuntu?

I'm asking because I noticed that some time ago I received some e-mail from anacron, which was delivered to /var/mail/<myusername>, and I'd like to know what did anacron use to send that.

I read an old thread for Hoary ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=28005&highlight=anacron+mail)](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=28005&highlight=anacron+mail)), which pointed out postfix as the default MTA back then. However, I haven't got postfix installed on my system and I don't know if that thread still applies for Breezy or Dapper.

Thanks.

---

### Post by astoltz on 2006-04-30
I could be wrong, but I thought they took all the local mail delivery stuff out of Dapper.  Seems like there was a thread or two on the forums discussing just that.  So on a default Dapper install, I'm surprised you got a mail generated by cron.  If I remember, Breezy uses Exim as the MTA and as you say, Hoary uses Postfix.

---

### Post by dpm on 2006-04-30
Sorry, I was not clear on this.

I received local mail on my Breezy system, which I later upgraded to Dapper. After your comment, I understand that that was sent using exim in Breezy (which got uninstalled after the upgrade, maybe?). 

This sounds like a plausible explanation to me, the only thing is that having a look at my laptop (which still uses Breezy), exim does not seem to be installed per default, and in fact, the local maibox has not even been created there.

But you are completely right, they dropped local mail support in Dapper. I've just found this thread discussing it:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=620904&postcount=116]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=620904&postcount=116")

I recall trying to learn about unix mail tools some time ago, so it could have well been that I installed sendmail in Breezy and later uninstalled it. In fact, after reading that thread (especially the initial post) it seems that they dropped local mail support already in Breezy.

Thanks.

---

### Post by dpm on 2006-04-30
I just love Synaptic... I found out what happened. Looking at the history of installed packages, it seems that I had installed sendmail in January and uninstalled it at the end of February. Funny enough, the last e-mail I got from anacron was around those dates.

So, to sum up:

1)  There's no default MTA installed in ubuntu Breezy or Dapper.

2) If one wants to use the traditional Unix 'mail' command, he/she must install the '**mailx**' package, which also includes **postfix** as one of its dependencies.

3) If only an MTA is required, either **sendmail**, **exim** or equivalent can be installed. **exim** seems to be officially supported by ubuntu.

I haven't got much experience with mail command tools, so if someone more knowledgeable spots a mistake in what I've posted, please feel free to correct me.

Thanks.

---

### Post by enderox on 2008-02-27
Thanks for the info.
These forums are so useful.

---

