---
title: "No Sensors in Lucid"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ron O on 2010-05-26
On a new fresh install of Lucid I am unable to fetch sensor information using this procedure [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SensorInstallHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SensorInstallHowto). LM sensors et al are installed, but after running the sensors-detect command (twice), typing sensors into Terminal gives me "no sensors found". This same system (with no hardware or bios changes) displayed all the sensors OK in Jaunty.

etc/modules looks like this. Am I supposed to uncomment # Chip drivers
w83627ehf? 

QUOTE

# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

loop
lp

# Generated by sensors-detect on Wed May 26 14:38:00 2010
# Chip drivers
w83627ehf

# Generated by sensors-detect on Wed May 26 14:46:32 2010
# Chip drivers
w83627ehf

---

### Post by chris1379 on 2010-05-26
Install sensors-applet from Synaptic Package Manager.
Right-click on top panel>Add to panel.
Click "Hardware Sensors Monitor"
You may need to reboot or restart X.
Right-click on one of the temp icons on the panel>Preferences
Use the GUI to add or edit sensors.
Sensors-detect didn't detect any sensors for me but this worked.

---

### Post by Ron O on 2010-05-28
Thanks, but nope. The applet says "no sensors found", even after rebooting. I don't get it, it worked fine on this system (unchanged hardware) on 3 prior installations of Ubuntu/ Xubuntu. Could this system be saving sessions creating the problem? I can't find the sessions manager.

---

