---
title: "10.04...again~some update kinda broke it...it seems to have interface lag. like bad=/"
date: 2010-06-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KEE on 2010-06-25
i m getting like screen tearing on icons in awn, screen tearing on firefox ...pretty much on everything. also the interface is real laggy. it happened on the last update. 

asus-k40in
2.0GHz x2 64 bit 
nvidia  G102M

---

### Post by handydan918 on 2010-06-25
Any update that includes a kernel change will likely break proprietary drivers like your nvidia. Try reinstalling it.

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-06-25
> **handydan918 said:**
> Any update that includes a kernel change will likely break proprietary drivers like your nvidia. Try reinstalling it.

how do you re-stall it?

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-06-25
> **handydan918 said:**
> Any update that includes a kernel change will likely break proprietary drivers like your nvidia. Try reinstalling it.

fail


I just tried reinstalling in Systems>Administration>Hardware Drivers, restarted the computer and it did nothing.

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-06-25
wow this is only on one profile...when I go to another one no lag no tearing...its probably best just to make another profile and move all my files (again) to the new profile...wow seems like like these updates are more like sabotage...

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-06-25
I think is the nvidia driver update the isn't good as the old one. After nvidia update I also started to experience tearing.

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-06-26
> **lovinglinux said:**
> I think is the nvidia driver update the isn't good as the old one. After nvidia update I also started to experience tearing.how do you go back to the first one?? sorry for you too...I know how frustrating it is while watching movies and stuff...especially just the OS just being teared up all time. when i check the process speed...its always on 800 mhz on the memory clock no matter is doing. thats bad update

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-06-26
> **KEE said:**
> how do you go back to the first one?? sorry for you too...I know how frustrating it is while watching movies and stuff...especially just the OS just being teared up all time. when i check the process speed...its always on 800 mhz on the memory clock no matter is doing. thats bad update

I didn't. In fact I don't have tearing in movies.

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-06-27
anyone Know if the devs are making a better driver? probably be a good idea ....

anyone know how to get the old driver back?

---

