---
title: "9.10 Specific - Monitor Will Not Sleep"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by radioraheem on 2009-11-08
Since upgrading to 9.10 (this is a clean install, not a direct upgrade) My monitor/video card will not "sleep" the display after the amount of time specified in the gnome power management config panel.  I have tried completely disabling the X-screensaver just to make sure that wasn't causing any issues and there was no change.

I'm not sure where to start tracking this down.  Any help is very much appreciated.

Thanks! :D

---

### Post by radioraheem on 2009-11-13
Anyone?  Even a pointer of where I can start looking for issues?

---

### Post by vtrac on 2009-11-17
Sigh. It seems to be happening to me too.  ATI 3300 and a Dell 2407WFP.  Everything worked fine on 9.04.  I've tried setting it to 5 minutes, 10 minutes, 1 minute, etc.

---

### Post by windfarmer on 2009-11-22
i had this trouble in 9.10 ran across this thread searching Google. what i did to get mine to work was i clicked system on the desktop then selected preferences then selected power management i set the display setting for 30 minutes then i clicked "make default" and then entered my user password when prompted then closed that window and waited 30 minutes and it worked. don't know if that will help you guys any.

---

### Post by vtrac on 2009-11-22
This problem went away for me, but I'm not sure what did it.  Perhaps it was a round of updates or just a reboot.  Dunno.

---

### Post by windfarmer on 2009-12-04
this problem seems to come and go for me it will sleep for a wile then something will change and the monitor will stop going to sleep usually a reboot will fix it again.

---

### Post by radioraheem on 2009-12-04
The screensaver not activating seemed to be related to a (possibly) bad video card.  I switched it out for a near-identical model and it started working ok.

Monitor sleep/standby still seems to be hit or miss though, as you described above.

---

