---
title: "15.04 [    0,586216] ACPI PCC probe failed starting version 219. upon startup"
date: 2015-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by timmy8 on 2015-06-02
Hi I'm moderate user of Ubuntu still new and learning. I'm not that skilled with commands on Linux like all u pros.

I need some help with the issue at the top Title [    0,586216] ACPI PCC probe failed starting version 219. upon startup. I get this everytime i start up Ubuntu 15.04 and want to know how to fix this or stop it from coming up as a delay having to wait  few seconds. Thank u 


I also have this other issue that says unknown for Intel and not sure whats that about please help thank u. I can send u any info u want just let me know what i have to do thank u 


[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/YaZBQyZ.png[/IMG]


[B][COLOR=#ff0000]My PC specs are

ASRock  Z77 OC Formula Motherboard
Intel i7  2600k CPU 3.4Ghz
Corsair Dominator Platinum 16GB (2 x 8GB) DDR3 2133 MHz (PC3 17000), 1.65V Desktop Memory (CMD16GX3M2A2133C9)
Corsair Water Cooling H100i
EVGA - NVIDIA GeForce GTX 760 2GB GDDR5 PCI Express 3.0 Graphics Card
PSU Corsair HX 750
Ubuntu 15.04 64bit 300GB HDD old HITACHI drive from HP 
Dualbooting with Windows 8.1 Pro 64bit 2TB HDD WD and Windows 7 Pro 64bit 1TB WD With Linux lite 64bit 1TB HDD WD

[/COLOR][/B]


I'm an Experienced Tech  with building Computers with Windows OS's, Moderate to Linux, Commands not very good at in Linux yet

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2015-06-02
> I need some help with the issue at the top Title [ 0,586216] ACPI PCC probe failed starting version 219. upon startup. I get this everytime i start up Ubuntu 15.04 and want to know how to fix this or stop it from coming up as a delay having to wait few seconds. Thank u 
This message's appearance affects many people. So far no solution to prevent it AFAIK. There is a launchpad bug report here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1430625](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1430625)
You and other affected users can indicate there that it affects you and add a comment if you wish.
Maybe a duplicate here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/1459045](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/1459045)

"version 219" is a reference to systemd (so that you know what version you are using).

On the other question, I can't advise you on the proprietary firmware - I'm not familiar with it.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-06-02
The Intel microcode driver is a way of altering the behaviour of an Intel CPU without flashing the BIOS. The driver will be loaded at an early stage of the Linux loading process.

[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Microcode](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Microcode)

It is just an additional driver that is now available in Additional Drivers. Ubuntu users have it easier than Arch Linux users but their wiki does explain what microcode is.

Regards.

---

### Post by timmy8 on 2015-06-02
Thank u guys for your help [**[COLOR=#000000]Dennis N[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=321222")  [**[COLOR=#000000]grahammechanical[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1087323"). So there is no way to stop this [    0,586216] ACPI PCC probe failed starting version 219 from coming up. (The numbers in the brackets do change everytime i restart tho it is different every time)  As i know u said this is a bug in 15.04 its kind of a hassle to wait a few seconds id really like to fix this.

Also is the mircocode Intel based on the integrated video to my mobo

---

### Post by timmy8 on 2015-06-03
Answer

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-06-03
The "starting version 219" message appeared about the middle of the 26 week development period of Ubuntu 15.04 when Ubuntu followed Debian's lead in switching to SystemD as an init system. It is not present in the development version of 15.10. An update to 15.04 may fix it but then again it may not. There is a strict policy regarding updating a released version of Ubuntu. It is called Stable Release Updates (SRU). So, removing this message may not be considered critical enough to be accepted as an SRU.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates)

Here we are, six weeks into the 26 week development period of 15.10 and the "ACPI PCC probe failed" message is still with us. It is a Linux system message which should be hidden behind a splash screen. As far as I can see it does not delay the loading of Ubuntu.

Regards.

---

### Post by xutpp on 2015-08-07
The original configuration in the /etc/default/grub file, says on the line
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT = "quiet"

You should say
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT = "quiet splash"

---

