---
title: "Noisy fans are driving me nuts!"
date: 2012-12-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by defaria on 2012-12-20
Whenever I'm watching a video or other processes start taking up some medium amount of CPU the fans on my desktop spin and spin and become very noisy. I've tried lm_sensors, sensors, pwmconfig, etc. all to no avail as pwconfig doesn't seem to see any fans to control and sets up an /etc/fancontrol that has no values. I cannot start /etc/init.d/fancontrol - it complains that /etc/fancontrol is not correct.

I've tried the instructions at [https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Fan_Speed_Control](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Fan_Speed_Control) but as I said /etc/fancontrol never gets any valid values. I tried to set up /etc/fancontrol manually but I don't know what I'm doing. I set up:

```

# Configuration file generated by pwmconfig, changes will be lost
INTERVAL=10
DEVPATH=hwmon0=devices/platform/w83627ehf.608 hwmon1=devices/pci0000:00/000:00:18.3
#DEVPATH=hwmon0=devices/platform/coretemp.0 hwmon2=devices/platform/w83627ehf.656
DEVNAME=hwmon0=w83627dhg hwmon1=k10temp
FCTEMPS=hwmon0/device/pwm1=hwmon0/device/temp1_input
FCFANS= hwmon0/device/pwm1=hwmon0/device/fan1_input
MINTEMP=hwmon0/device/pwm1=20
MAXTEMP=hwmon0/device/pwm1=55
MINSTART=hwmon0/device/pwm1=150
MINSTOP=hwmon0/device/pwm1=105

```

But when I run fancontrol I get:

```

$ fancontrol
Loading configuration from /etc/fancontrol ...

Common settings:
  INTERVAL=10

Settings for hwmon0/device/pwm1:
  Depends on hwmon0/device/temp1_input
  Controls hwmon0/device/fan1_input
  MINTEMP=20
  MAXTEMP=55
  MINSTART=150
  MINSTOP=105
  MINPWM=0
  MAXPWM=255

Device path of hwmon1 has changed
Configuration appears to be outdated, please run pwmconfig again

```

I'm assuming if I can get fancontrol running my noisy fan problem will go away.

Here's output from sensors:

```

$ sensors
w83627dhg-isa-0260
Adapter: ISA adapter
Vcore:        +1.24 V  (min =  +0.00 V, max =  +1.74 V)
in1:          +1.83 V  (min =  +0.83 V, max =  +0.36 V)  ALARM
AVCC:         +3.34 V  (min =  +2.98 V, max =  +3.63 V)
+3.3V:        +3.34 V  (min =  +2.98 V, max =  +3.63 V)
in4:          +1.59 V  (min =  +0.94 V, max =  +0.03 V)  ALARM
in5:          +0.95 V  (min =  +0.15 V, max =  +0.28 V)  ALARM
in6:          +0.82 V  (min =  +0.57 V, max =  +0.74 V)  ALARM
3VSB:         +3.34 V  (min =  +2.98 V, max =  +3.63 V)
Vbat:         +3.70 V  (min =  +2.70 V, max =  +3.30 V)  ALARM
fan1:           0 RPM  (min = 2636 RPM, div = 128)  ALARM
fan2:        3245 RPM  (min = 1205 RPM, div = 8)
fan3:        1721 RPM  (min = 1278 RPM, div = 8)
fan4:           0 RPM  (min =   80 RPM, div = 128)  ALARM
fan5:           0 RPM  (min =   79 RPM, div = 128)  ALARM
temp1:       +100.0 C  (high = +71.0 C, hyst = -33.0 C)  ALARM  sensor = thermistor
temp2:        +66.5 C  (high = +80.0 C, hyst = +75.0 C)  sensor = diode
temp3:       +117.0 C  (high = +80.0 C, hyst = +75.0 C)  ALARM  sensor = thermistor
cpu0_vid:    +0.375 V
intrusion0:  ALARM

k10temp-pci-00c3
Adapter: PCI adapter
temp1:        +44.0 C  (high = +70.0 C)

```

One thing I'm not sure of is exactly which fans are going nuts. I can think of at least 3 different types of fans - one on the power supply, one for each(?) CPU core (I have 4 - AMD) and one for the GPU. According to gkrellm I can see that the GPU fans don't seem to be a problem but the fans listed as fan1, fan2, fan3, etc. do go up noticeably when I'm playing a video and hearing the fans go nuts.

Please help.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-12-20
If temp1 is the CPU core temp, that is high.  If this is the temp when idle, I'd be concerned.

That would explain why your fans are running -- to try to cool down the CPU.

If you install a fan speed manager and force the fans to run slower, you risk burning out the CPU -- provided it doesn't exceed some threshold temp and then shutdown your PC.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-12-20
The k10temp is your CPU.  What model is the CPU?

If that is at idle it is far too high.  AMD's wacky temp reporting usually shows unrealistic sub-ambient temps at idle -- often 10 degrees less than the actual temperature.

At 22 degrees ambient my Phenom II X6 1100T reports 19 degrees.  I have a script called by my conky to add 10 degrees to the reported temp.

At 44 degrees from lm-sensors, your actual temp is probably in the mid 50's.  Max for most recent AMD CPUs is about 60, but I wouldn't want to get very close to that.

temp1 - temp3 are probably your MOSFETs, socket and Northbridge, but who knows what order without looking at your mobo manual.

Suffice it to say that you have some serious cooling problems.  You definitely don't need to turn your fans down.  You need to fix your cooling situation.

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-12-20
But how do I cool down my CPU and why should I have to? By the later I mean I really don't think that I'm asking that much of my system to do. I have 2 large monitors and I often put a Hulu or YouTube video in one while I work in the other. Also it's not like I'm rendering Blueray videos in the background. 

I've had this particular system for years and slowly, over time, it's gotten nosier and nosier.

I have, at times, gotten that air spray and cleaned out the dust that often accumulates over time. I don't have any major obstructions to air flow either. 

I'm not a hardware guy so when you say "Cool down your CPU" I have no idea how to do that short of sticking my desktop in the freezer. I mean I know - minimize obstruction and dirt etc. But what else?

Model of my CPU. Hmmm... This is an HP Pavilion AMD 64 bit machine of a few years back. Is there a utility I can run to report the actual CPU?

lshw says "AMD Phenom(tm) 9650 Quad-Core Processor". Is that what you are looking for? Anything else I can provide? How?

I have seen, at times, when rebooting, messages saying something like "unreliable heat sensor". I thought this meant that the kernel didn't know how to properly monitor heat and thus maybe it was turning on the fan when it didn't need to.

I thought that perhaps this fan sound that I was hearing might be from the power supply and I could pretty easily purchase a new one and replace it. I have done this before. But as I said I'm not hardware oriented. I don't think replacing CPU fans or CPUs would be as easy.

Let me know what else I can get you so that you can help me resolve this problem. In general, this machine should not be running this hot nor use the fan as much as it does and I'd really like to fix this.

Oh I did want to mention that there are times when the fan rumbles a bit or just turns on a little bit and the only thing that is taking up CPU is Thunderbird and some animated Personas. That and Xorg reporting CPU usage. So I'm sitting on my couch, ignoring my desktop and watching videos and I'll hear the fan running. I'll check and pretty much just Xorg and Thunderbird are eating up enough CPU to cause the fan to wine a little bit...

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-12-21
"just turns on a little bit" ???????????

Is your CPU fan plugged into the CPU fan header?

Your CPU fan should be running all the time, although not necessarily at its maximum speed.  If it has been getting louder and louder for some time, that is because it has been going bad.  When do you see the unreliable sensor message?  You need to be more specific than "when rebooting".

Ubuntu (any OS, really) is not really responsible for the speed of the CPU fan as a general rule, although you can often adjust it through software.  The motherboard is the primary caretaker of fan speed.  (If you ask me, you should NEVER use software to control your CPU HSF.  Ever.  You cannot monitor and adjust it as fast as your motherboard can).  You can check to see if your equipment is the fault by entering your BIOS setup on boot (instead of loading the OS) and finding the menu in your setup that displays the system health.  If your fan is just barely turning then, the OS has nothing to do with the problem.  If the temperatures get high while you are in the BIOS setup, you can eliminate the OS as the culprit.

Absent any deliberate modification via software, if your fan is just turning a little bit, you have a serious hardware problem.  Rumbling and failing to spin is a hardware fault - either the fan is bad or the motherboard is not properly adjusting the speed.  

Again:  ***slowing down your fans when you are overheating is definitely NOT what you want to do***.  You need to examine/diagnose/repair your hardware issue.  The first thing I would do is turn of the computer and leave it off until you at least replace the HSF fan -- that's an inexpensive replacement and may be all you need to do.  If it's an OEM HSF, you will likely have to replace the entire assembly.

You have a hardware problem, not a software problem.

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-12-21
By "just turns on a little bit" I mean it surges in speed such that I can hear it and then slows down again. It's a wooshing type sound.

I have no idea if the CPU fan is plugged into the CPU fan header. In fact I have no idea if it's even the CPU fan! I'm not a hardware guy and the case is close right now. I hear a fan. I suspect it's the CPU fan but I don't know that for sure.

I see the message briefly while booting. I rarely reboot.

As I said, I don't know that the fan is barely turning on. I would think it is as you say running all the time. It's runs at higher speeds when I play videos and/or when the CPUs get somewhat busy. I have no problems with the fan running all it wants, it's just abnormally loud to the point where even on Skype others can hear it and comment on it.

This has been like this for at least 9 months.

Think I should just bring it into somebody who knows what they are doing? Got any suggestions of places in the San Diego area?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-12-21
> **defaria said:**
> Think I should just bring it into somebody who knows what they are doing? Got any suggestions of places in the San Diego area?

We're trying to tell you NOT to turn down the fans -- and you just keep NOT getting that!

Modern PCs have fans that run dynamically, that is, they increase speed AS NEEDED in order to deal with increased temps -- of what they are trying to cool down.

IF you take this to someone and they force your fans to slow down (perhaps by putting some kind of resistance in the fan power lead) that will run a major risk of burning out whatever the fan is trying to cool.

The other option is to throttle back the CPU (if that fan is the one making the noise that bothers you so much), which can be donw with apps like Jupiter.  But that will result in a visible performance hit in what you're doing.

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-12-21
Oh I get it. I got it the first time you said it. I said to myself "Gee, guess that's bad" and asked you if you knew where I could take it to get it fixed. Besides I have no way to slow down the fans anyway. Remember fancontrol/pwmconfig doesn't even seem to see any of my fans.

---

### Post by defaria on 2013-01-10
Just to close out this thread - I took my PC to a repair place and they cleaned it out and set it up. Now it's nice and quiet again.

---

