---
title: "21.04 (hirsute) breaks Arduino serial ports"
date: 2021-05-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by michaelshiloh on 2021-05-17
Hello,

I just upgraded to 21.04 and can no longer program my Arduino. Arduino uses a virtual serial port over USB. When I plug in my Arduino, a new serial port shows up (/dev/ttyACM0) and dmesg reports:

```
[61239.444141] usb 1-4: new full-speed USB device number 32 using xhci_hcd
[61239.595108] usb 1-4: New USB device found, idVendor=2341, idProduct=0043, bcdDevice= 0.01
[61239.595123] usb 1-4: New USB device strings: Mfr=1, Product=2, SerialNumber=220
[61239.595130] usb 1-4: Manufacturer: Arduino (www.arduino.cc)
[61239.595134] usb 1-4: SerialNumber: 75833353035351E011E0
[61239.598686] cdc_acm 1-4:1.0: ttyACM0: USB ACM device

```

So far this is the proper operation. However when I try to upload a new program to my Arduino I get the following error in the Arduino IDE:

```

avrdude: ser_open(): can't open device "/dev/ttyACM0": Input/output error

```

The only relevant line in /var/log/syslog seems to be:

```
kernel: [61936.113737] cdc_acm 1-4:1.0: acm_port_activate - usb_submit_urb(ctrl irq) failed

```

This worked fine before the upgrade to 21.04. A second computer also upgraded to 21.04 exhibits the same failure mode. A third computer running 20.10 with the same Arduino hardware and software works fine.

I am in the dialout group to have correct access permissions. As I said, this was working fine before the upgrade.

Can you suggest any experiments that can help find the solution to this problem?

---

### Post by michaelshiloh on 2021-05-24
Update: 
1. A fresh install of 21.04 solved the problem for a while, but the problem returned after a couple of weeks. I had done *apt upgrade* at least once in between, that could have been what caused it but I'm not sure as I wasn't checking carefully.
2. Today I downgraded my kernel to 5.8.11 and the problem went away. Prior to the downgrade I was running 5.11.11. 
Perhaps this is a kernel issue and has nothing to do with Ubuntu. Perhaps I should file a bug against the kernel. What do you suggest?

---

