---
title: "10.10 Constant errors on my desktop"
date: 2010-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Niccola on 2010-10-30
Guys,
I've installed 10.10 in my desktop in the same day that is launches... But, now I went to reinstall for some errors that I get on it, thinking in a possible way to solve that!

Well, when I reinstall the system, I've note a strange thing in the installation:
- When installation begins, it shows: "Install Ubuntu 10.04.1" in my desktop!! O.o
I've put the cd on my notebook and it shows "Install Ubuntu 10.10" in my notebook! O.o

How the same CD shows different way to install, different systems?

It is just one of some errors apparent in Ubuntu "10.10"

Other kind of errors that appears is:
1-A Strange noise in the speakers when some operation are doing. e.g.: When Im watching a YouTube Video, I get a strange noise in the speaker.
When I'm executing some command in Terminal, each line sounds the same strange noise.
Apparently, the strange noise appears when the processor get some job. (no depends how much "Hard" is the processing) 

2-The System is crashing just opening some websites in Chrome

Things done:
-I've checked Memory Errors and none appear.
-I've reinstalled the system more than one time and the errors persist.
-It would be a hardware error? Can I find or get detailed about this?

Im using the ubuntu "10.10" (or "10.04.1", O.o) in:
Pentium 4 2.4Ghz 800Mhz FSB Prescott Socket 478
Motherboard ASUS P4P800-X (Sound On-board)
Video Card XFX 6200 A-LE AGP 8x
160GB Seagate IDE
2GB of Memory RAM DDR-400

Please, somebody help-me!!

---

