---
title: "update-grub not working"
date: 2014-08-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kamzi on 2014-08-13
Hi,

Just recently noticed that I was still running older kernel. I ran dist-upgrade which went fine other than some complaing about grub. Well reboot and got back with my older kernel.
```

root@hostname:/boot/grub# update-grub
Generating grub configuration file ...
Script `/boot/grub/grub.cfg.new' contains no commands and will do nothing
Syntax errors are detected in generated GRUB config file.
Ensure that there are no errors in /etc/default/grub
and /etc/grub.d/* files or please file a bug report with
/boot/grub/grub.cfg.new file attached.
done

```

So any ideas how to fix this? So far tried googling and reinstalling grub without success.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-08-13
I had a typo in my 40_custom from early with grub2 and then some update to a newer grub2 created this file.
       /boot/grub/grub.cfg.new

    

So I think you have a typo somewhere. I also have seen it if /etc/default/grub has a incorrect entry also.

I think if you look at your grub.cfg.new it may say what line is the issue. But if like mine where it was a missing } it can be hard to find.

Post in code tags (easy to do with # in advanced editor):
cat /boot/grub/grub.cfg.new

---

### Post by Kamzi on 2014-08-13
Well I think that is the problem here since my /boot/grub/grub.cfg.new has only comments:

```
root@hostname:~# cat /boot/grub/grub.cfg.new
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

```

Also that /etc/grub.d/ directory is empty:

```
root@hostname:~# ls -al /etc/grub.d/
total 16
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root  4096 elo    8 12:54 .
drwxr-xr-x 182 root root 12288 elo   13 14:49 ..

```

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-08-13
Then you are missing all the grub scripts, so nothing runs.

I would just uninstall grub and reinstall it. Make sure Internet is working as once uninstalled, you probably will not be able to reboot unless new install takes place.

For BIOS system with grub-pc, not for UEFI with grub-efi-amd64:

If you still can boot, you do not need the chroot, but then need sudo on all commands.
 chroot & grub uninstall & reinstall -drs305
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099)

      
 # purge old and reinstall new to sda
sudo apt-get purge grub grub-pc grub-common
sudo mv /boot/grub /boot/grub_backup
sudo mkdir /boot/grub
sudo apt-get install grub-pc grub-common
sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sda
sudo update-grub

---

### Post by Kamzi on 2014-08-14
Thanks! This worked. I tried to purge grub but only with apt-get purge grub2. Seems that wasn't enough. :)

Now I can use my system again with new and shiny kernel.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-08-14
Glad that worked.

Names for packages often are not the name of the application.
Grub2's package name for BIOS is grub-pc.
It has several package names for UEFI depending on version.
Grub legacy's package name is just grub.

---

