---
title: "8.10 Wont start, Monitor goes white"
date: 2009-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by azzy101 on 2009-09-01
Hi im having an issue with Ubuntu 8.10, i originally installed ubuntu on a dualboot system with XP, i was then using a 19 inch samsung 930bf. i had no issues with that monitor or ubuntu. Since then i have switched my monitor to a Samsung SyncMaster 2032mw, when i get to the OS selection screen i pick ubuntu, and ubuntu begins to load, but once ubuntu has finished with its loading bar the screen then fades to white... its like looking at a scanner scanning a document, theirs grey patches that then fade to white..

I restart my pc immeadiatly so i do not damage the screen.
I dont feel like going back to my 19 inch 

heres my hardware:

Nvidia 9600gt oc 512 mb GFX
Intel Core 2 duo e6750 CPU
2 gigs of ram, ddr3 1333mhz
Asus Striker 2 nse mobo
maxtor 500g HD

This monitor works fine with XP.

Their is one issue with the monitor though , one night when my old copy of vista crashed and nearly killed my hard drive, my screen could not be turned off or adjusted in anyway, it gives me the message  "Keys locked" their isnt anything i can do about this.

Any help would be appriciated

Peace

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-09-01
Can you boot into recovery mode? If so, go to root. If not, can you get to the command line by doing "ctrl + alt + f1" after it boots?

---

### Post by fluffman86 on 2009-09-01
> **NoaHall said:**
> Can you boot into recovery mode? If so, go to root. If not, can you get to the command line by doing "ctrl + alt + 1" after it boots?

That should be ctrl + alt + F1.

What's probably happening is the Xorg graphical system is attempting to display at a resolution that your new monitor can't handle.  

Once you get to a shell, whether by recovery console or ctrl + alt + F1, kill your gdm session, then reconfigure your X graphics and restart gdm:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

If you're using the binary nVidia drivers, you need to reconfigure them as well:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```
and after that you may want to run
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by azzy101 on 2009-09-01
thanks, il try it now :)

---

### Post by azzy101 on 2009-09-01
Thank you, that worked completely :D

---

