---
title: "10.04 LTSP not working &quot;out of the box&quot; like 9.10"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mappy24 on 2010-05-05
We have been running some LTSP tests on 9.10 and have been impressed with the results.

I've rebuilt the LTSP server with 10.04 Alternate CD and performed the exact same steps as we did with the 9.10 installation.  There is only one NIC installed in the server.

We have a mixed environment so we need to uninstall the dhcp3-server and configure DHCP scope options on our Windows 2003 server as follows:
```
017 Root Path /opt/ltsp/i386
066 Boot Server Host Name 192.168.0.33
067 Bootfile Name ltsp/i386/pxelinux.0
```
When the LTSP client boots I get the following error:
```
Error: Failed to connect to NBD server
```
Then I get dumped to a busybox shell.

I've googled the error but can't find any information on how to fix this, any ideas?

---

### Post by vir_db on 2010-05-05
Hi,

the same here, with a native ubuntu 10.04 installation with dhcp3-server.

I think that the issue is about the ndb server, because if I restart it on the server, in the client (randomly) I can see the LDM display, but it's impossible to login

---

### Post by mappy24 on 2010-05-05
nbd-server has no config file in /etc/nbd-server.  I tried running ```
dpkg-reconfigure nbd-server
``` to create a config file, I specified /opt/ltsp/i386 as the path to export but I still have the same problem.

I'm currently loading 9.10 on a virtual machine to see if the nbd-server config exists there.

---

### Post by mappy24 on 2010-05-05
```
ltsp-update-image --arch i386
```

This fixed it for me, thanks to the guys in IRC.

---

### Post by tpenev on 2010-05-27
i was running into the same "Error: Failed to connect to NBD server" message, but it turned out to be caused by xinetd which does not get automatically configured properly by the ltsp install scripts. i switched to openbsd-inetd, re-installed ltsp and everything was running as advertised.

---

### Post by santhony on 2010-05-28
I'm having the same issue with nbd-server on lynx64 desktop.

I'm getting the 

WARNING **: Could not parse config file: Could not open config file.
** Message: Nothing to do! Bye!
 nbd-server.

Although the below reconfigure script will restore the config file, I'm not sure of what the settings need to be for ltsp, that is the Port and Path info.

Try "dpkg-reconfigure nbd-server". That should ask some questions and generate a correct config file.

Does anyone know the Port needed and the correct path?

I think the port may be either 2000 or 69, and the path, I've tried is the /opt/ltsp/i386.. 

But these haven't solved the problem yet..

---

### Post by muppis on 2010-06-15
I also had to replace xinetd with openbsd-inet and reinstall to get it work.

---

### Post by davidrogerman on 2010-06-17
I had the same problem with the message: "failed to connect to NBD Server". In my case the trouble was solved when I turned off all and then I turned on all in order, first the router, then the LTSP Server and finally the pc clients.

Hope this help. ):P

---

### Post by henrikor on 2010-09-14
We also had this problem. Things to know:


[LIST=1]
[*]nbd-server should **not** have an /etc/nbd-server/config file
[*]Install openbsd-inetd
[*]nbd-server should be configured in /etc/inetd.conf (you should not need to do this manually, but it has to have a line like: ```
2000               stream  tcp            nowait  nobody /usr/sbin/tcpd /usr/sbin/nbdrootd /opt/ltsp/images/i386.img
```
[*]Check that /var/lib/tftpboot/ltsp/i386/pxelinux.cfg/default has same port number as /etc/inetd.conf. We had (as you see) port 2000. Our /var/lib/tftpboot/ltsp/i386/pxelinux.cfg/default looks like: ```
default ltsp


label ltsp
kernel vmlinuz
append ro initrd=initrd.img quiet splash nbdport=2000

```
[/LIST]

---

### Post by trippedn on 2011-07-04
Additional information: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1677475]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1677475")

---

### Post by coolnezz on 2011-08-04
**[COLOR="Red"]Error: Failed to connect to NBD server[/COLOR]**

This solved my problem!
Credit to Ricky_Wilson.

[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?p=4433976#post4433976](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?p=4433976#post4433976)


> [COLOR="Red"]i updated the following line in /var/lib/tftpboot/ltsp/i386/pxelinux.cfg/default

append ro initrd=initrd.img quiet splash nbdport=2000

to

append ro initrd=initrd.img quiet splash ndbroot=192.168.1.3 nbdport=2000

this almost worked as the error message changed to

cant connect to nbd server on 192.168.1.3:192.168.1.3

so tried changing it to 

append ro initrd=initrd.img quiet splash ndbroot=192.168.1.3:2000


and this seems to have fixed the problem for now, it just means if i ever change the ip address of the server i need to remember to update this line.[/COLOR]

---

