---
title: "10.10 tty1 console login prompt at boot"
date: 2010-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by at0msk on 2010-11-20
I installed Ubuntu 10.10 on my 32gb flash drive. Just one large partition for the OS and about a gig for swap. Worked fine. Booted to USB on two computers and a laptop at home. Fine. Figured I'd try it on a work pc for the sake of testing a random computer. 

Well I stick the drive in, boot up, select usb from the boot menu and bam Ubuntu starts loading. I look away, it's cool ubuntu's loading. Well I turn back and it's a black screen. It's "<username>@whatever login:" or something close. I use the username and password I created during installation and what I used to login to the computer like fifty million times while booted into Ubuntu. Well, invalid login.

The first time I installed this OS on this drive I updated it through the update manager and rebooted. Next thing I know I type in my username and password, hit enter, and bam black screen, some stuff, then im asked to login again. Now after this next iteration I am faced with yet another faulty login screen. What is up with this OS?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-11-20
> **at0msk said:**
> I installed Ubuntu 10.10 on my 32gb flash drive. Just one large partition for the OS and about a gig for swap. Worked fine. Booted to USB on two computers and a laptop at home. Fine. Figured I'd try it on a work pc for the sake of testing a random computer. 
.........
The first time I installed this OS on this drive I updated it through the update manager and rebooted. Next thing I know I type in my username and password, hit enter, and bam black screen, some stuff, then im asked to login again. Now after this next iteration I am faced with yet another faulty login screen. What is up with this OS?

Pfftt. Ubuntu installs are configured for the hardware you install it on, if it happens to run on other hardware that is basically good luck as there are not enough incompatibilities to break things. There is nothing wrong with the Ubuntu system, you are misusing it.

If you want Ubuntu that will run on a USB and boot on any hardware, that is **exactly** why the USB Startup Creator exists.

---

### Post by at0msk on 2010-11-21
> **dcstar said:**
> Pfftt. Ubuntu installs are configured for the hardware you install it on, if it happens to run on other hardware that is basically good luck as there are not enough incompatibilities to break things. There is nothing wrong with the Ubuntu system, you are misusing it.

If you want Ubuntu that will run on a USB and boot on any hardware, that is **exactly** why the USB Startup Creator exists.


So what you are saying is that I should believe that a hardware mismatch is going to cause an invalid login error.
:-k

---

### Post by at0msk on 2010-11-22
:p:p:p:pI decided to format and will just use the flash drive as a storage device for use with the more-reliable-than-ubuntu Windows OS.:p:p:p:p

---

