---
title: "C++"
date: 2010-08-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sworoop.mahapatra on 2010-08-27
Hi!
Can anyone suggest a C++ editor and compiler that i can use in Ubuntu 10.04. I am comfortable with Turbo C in Windows, so anything similar to that will be appreciated ::)
Thank you :)

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-08-27
Netbeans is a good IDE, and so is Qt Creator. (Qt Creator has the added bonus of drag-and-drop GUI creation using the Qt framework toolkit). They are however, fairly heavyweight and bulky. 

There are many others available too, many text editors which support C++ and have extra features specifically for C++. gedit, the standard GNOME text editor can be used. I have only used the two I have mentioned above so I can't really speak for the other editors from experience. 

As got a C++ compiler, if you want one that you can compile raw C++ code yourself (in the terminal for example), you can use g++. It's not installed by default, but simple to do so with:

```
sudo apt-get install g++
```

---

### Post by demosthenese on 2010-08-27
Code::Blocks

---

### Post by andthewicked on 2010-08-28
code lite

---

### Post by GregBrannon on 2010-08-28
Please visit the Programming Talk area of the forum and read the stickies there for programming resources and suggestions.  Also, there are several recent threads there on the "best" IDE.  It's a vigorously discussed topic, over and over again.

---

### Post by sworoop.mahapatra on 2010-08-29
Thanks everyone for replying :)
I am thinking of using Code blocks as the IDE basing on this 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_integrated_development_environments#C.2FC.2B.2B](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_integrated_development_environments#C.2FC.2B.2B)

---

### Post by James78 on 2010-08-29
I use KDevelop 4 with KDE, I like it much better than any other things. (:

---

### Post by sworoop.mahapatra on 2010-08-29
can any one tell me how to install code:blocks on ubuntu :(
i install am a new user so am unable to understand the method :(

---

### Post by Zirts on 2010-08-29
In Termianl just type g++ and the file name you want to compile and voila!

Later you can also do g++ fileName -o outputName
Otherwize it generates a executeable named a.out

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2010-08-29
```
sudo apt-get install codeblocks

```

---

### Post by sworoop.mahapatra on 2010-08-29
[http://wiki.codeblocks.org/index.php?title=Installing_Code::Blocks_nightly_build_on_Ubuntu](http://wiki.codeblocks.org/index.php?title=Installing_Code::Blocks_nightly_build_on_Ubuntu)

i have done till installing wxwidgets docs then i can't understand which version of the nightly build to install

---

### Post by James78 on 2010-08-29
> **sworoop.mahapatra said:**
> can any one tell me how to install code:blocks on ubuntu :(
i install am a new user so am unable to understand the method :(
> **jerome1232 said:**
> ```
sudo apt-get install codeblocks

```
> **sworoop.mahapatra said:**
> [http://wiki.codeblocks.org/index.php?title=Installing_Code::Blocks_nightly_build_on_Ubuntu](http://wiki.codeblocks.org/index.php?title=Installing_Code::Blocks_nightly_build_on_Ubuntu)

i have done till installing wxwidgets docs then i can't understand which version of the nightly build to install
See above.

---

### Post by sworoop.mahapatra on 2010-08-29
> **James78 said:**
> See above.
@james 
i installed code blocks and followed the link to install nightly
[http://forums.codeblocks.org/index.php?board=20.0](http://forums.codeblocks.org/index.php?board=20.0)
but i can't find any link for linux download for the latest code :(

---

### Post by sworoop.mahapatra on 2010-08-29
since code blocks was a little hard for me to install...
i installed net beans and Qt4  using ubuntu software package.
but i cannot compile even an hello world program :(
it says cannot find iostream.h or something like that in both the programs :(

---

### Post by James78 on 2010-08-30
Check out this [post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1983565").

Also, install build-essential if it isn't already.

---

### Post by sworoop.mahapatra on 2010-08-30
Hi!
I would like to explain my problem in detail :)

i want to compile the following code in QT4 or Netbeans and no other IDE

#include<iostream.h>
#include<conio.h>
void main()
{
    cout<<"Hello";
}

In net beans i get the following error :
/usr/bin/make -f nbproject/Makefile-Debug.mk SUBPROJECTS= .build-conf
make[1]: Entering directory `/home/maverick/NetBeansProjects/Hello'
/usr/bin/make  -f nbproject/Makefile-Debug.mk dist/Debug/GNU-Linux-x86/hello
make[2]: Entering directory `/home/maverick/NetBeansProjects/Hello'
mkdir -p build/Debug/GNU-Linux-x86
rm -f build/Debug/GNU-Linux-x86/newmain.o.d
g++    -c -g -MMD -MP -MF build/Debug/GNU-Linux-x86/newmain.o.d -o build/Debug/GNU-Linux-x86/newmain.o newmain.cpp
newmain.cpp:1:21: warning: iostream.h: No such file or directory
newmain.cpp:2:18: warning: conio.h: No such file or directory
newmain.cpp:3: error: ‘::main’ must return ‘int’
newmain.cpp: In function ‘int main()’:
newmain.cpp:5: error: ‘cout’ was not declared in this scope

and a similar type in QT4

for code lite and code blocks the problem is that it says starting code blocks  and starting code lite then it vanishes from the panel with no IDE loading :(
please help guys

---

### Post by Tony Flury on 2010-08-30
firstly - have you done 

```

sudo apt-get install build-essential

```

Also

```

conio.h

```
is windows specific, and you wont find it on Linux at all.

and use
```

int main(void)

```

the main function should always return an int - and the compiler is telling you that.

---

### Post by meoconvn38 on 2010-08-30
All fine , another way is use ecllipse.
:popcorn:

---

### Post by James78 on 2010-08-30
> **sworoop.mahapatra said:**
> Hi!
I would like to explain my problem in detail :)

i want to compile the following code in QT4 or Netbeans and no other IDE

<snip>

and a similar type in QT4

for code lite and code blocks the problem is that it says starting code blocks  and starting code lite then it vanishes from the panel with no IDE loading :(
please help guys
Remember also that either you need to put "using namespace std;" below the headers, or prepend "std::" to cout, making "std::cout"

Oh, and just #include <iostream>, no need for the ".h" at the end.

---

### Post by sworoop.mahapatra on 2010-08-30
Thanks everyone for replying :)
i finally was able to run my first code in ubuntu :)
i was acquainted with Turbo C and the code i had written worked perfectly in that so i was unable to understand the problems that i was encountering.
but y can't we use <iostream.h>  instead of <iostream> :( 
The university i study in uses Turbo C as a compiler and checks the papers according to the syntax of Windows Compilers :( so if i use syntaxes of linux in my papers and thesis then am done for and since am a student i am not capable for paying for a copy of windows :( more over i like ubuntu :)
Isn't there any compiler that functions exactly like Turbo and borland C++?
I haven't tried eclipse yet :)

Thanks again :)

---

### Post by sworoop.mahapatra on 2010-08-30
how about this?
[http://helpforlinux.blogspot.com/2008/12/install-borland-turbo-c-in-ubuntu.html](http://helpforlinux.blogspot.com/2008/12/install-borland-turbo-c-in-ubuntu.html)

is it legal??

---

