---
title: "11.10 appearance"
date: 2011-11-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-24
I have been playing around with 11.10 and don't really like the new look. Everything seems to have changed and I am not finding way around anymore. The last Ubuntu I used was 10.04... isn't there some way to get back *that* look? You know, the top bar says Applications, Places, System... and all that.

11.10 is not intuitive for me. Perhaps there is a guide?

Thanks

---

### Post by DapperMe17 on 2011-11-24
Here you go...[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/classicgnome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/classicgnome)

Gnome fallback is close to Gnome 2. 

Gnome 2 is dead, however you can Google "mate", as there is an individual who is trying to keep it alive.

:popcorn:

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-24
> **DapperMe17 said:**
> Here you go...[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/classicgnome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/classicgnome)

Gnome fallback is close to Gnome 2. 

Gnome 2 is dead, however you can Google "mate", as there is an individual who is trying to keep it alive.

:popcorn:


Dead?! Ag no... :(

The ubuntu website says the launcher can be easily turned off but I don't see how. There don't seem to any customization functions apart from wallpapers... Am I missing something?

---

### Post by tersogar on 2011-11-24
Try gnome shell.

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-24
Eh? I'm not a power user. Don't know what you mean...

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-11-24
Try using this wallpaper for a while until you get used to unity.

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-24
> **stinkeye said:**
> Try using this wallpaper for a while until you get used to unity.

Thanks, that actually very helpful :)

I surprised though stuff like this can't be set/change using the mouse and menus. Having to learn a whole bunch of commands and hotkeys doesn't seem particularly user-friendly. The old look was far easier... I wonder why they changed it? :confused:

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-24
Since I'm on the subject, how does one customise all this. I went through the screenshots thread and some of them look nothing like what I have on my screen...

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-11-24
> Since I'm on the subject, how does one customise all this. I went through the screenshots thread and some of them look nothing like what I have on my screen...
The screenshots are probably of other DE's, eg gnome-shell, Xubuntu etc.

For unity customization...
Install compizconfig-settings-manager (ccsm).
Can be started in the dash with **ccsm**.

Change various settings in ccsm > Ubunu Unity Plugin.

Compiz is a bit buggy at the moment.
If you end up with no window borders hit ctrl+alt+t to open a terminal and run
```
compiz --replace & disown
```

If you loose the launcher and panel hit ctrl+alt+t to open a terminal and run
```
ccsm
```
Check the unity plugin is enabled.


You'll get some people telling you to go back to this, install that
but I find it works fairly well once you adapt.
Just a couple of things I don't like, eg the global menu and overlay scrollbars.
More customization will come as it matures.

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-24
Thanks. Thought I'd mention I'd mention I'm running it on Wubi at the moment. Will that affect what I can do to it?

---

### Post by CHAUDHRY07 on 2011-11-24
that wont but it just reduce your performance a little bit.i also used 11.04 with gnome 2 then switched to 11.10 but it didnt suited me so i converted to xubuntu and it worked for me like a charm.but if you want to keep ubuntu and want to convert to a visual like gnome 2 then try the above post by dapperme.but i would i recommend xubuntu for all who dont want to use unity.its stable simple more customizeable and light on you resources too. :) am in love with it.

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-24
Thanks I'll check it out.

While I'm at it I'll also look into Puppy, Mint and Kubuntu. Their websites praise them left right and centre. Anyone care to chip in an opinion on them?

Cheers again!

---

### Post by T.exe on 2011-11-24
I'm currently using Kubuntu after Unity and Gnome.. In my opinion, its the best one i found when comparing between unity and gnome.. never tried Mint and Puppy though!

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-24
This might sound really thick but is Unity the name of the Ubuntu's 'new look'? And Gnome is the old one? 

Also, why did they change it. I mean, what was the point behind switching to Unity? I said earlier that this Unity doesn't feel intuitive to me... am I the only one that thinks that?

I was always under the impression that Linux OS's are supposed to be highly customizable. If that's the case then why can't one switch between looks?

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-25
I have been looking at gnome-fallback. Does anyone have any experience with that? How does one go about installing it?

---

### Post by T.exe on 2011-11-25
[B]
sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback[/B]

Log off, and in the Login screen, click on that gear-like icon.. and choose the gnome fallback option.

-OR-
Install Gnome3 first[B]
sudo apt-get install gnome-shell[/B]

After successful installation, log-off and in the Login screen look for a gear like icon. Click it, you will get a drop-down list of all the available environments. Choose the gnome-fallback option...

The gnome-fallback is simple and cute.. its the classic gnome!

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2011-11-25
> **bigseb said:**
> I have been looking at gnome-fallback. Does anyone have any experience with that? How does one go about installing it?

From memory I think this is how you get gnome fallback -

```

sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback
```

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-11-25
If you want a full-powered Linux and can't stand Unity, Kubuntu is the answer.

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-26
Thanks all! Actually I got a whole bunch of other distro yesterday, Kubuntu being one of them. It does look nice but I read somewhere they may be buggy..

Here's another question then: appearance aside, does it still have all the features that, say, 10.10 had? Things like synaptic didn't appear in the menu if I remember. Is it hidden somewhere else? And how do you install drivers if it isn't there?

---

### Post by holycow131415 on 2011-11-26
MATE is in linux mint 12 as a fall back. It is gnome 2 being updated to gnome 3 packages. In linux mint 12, gnome shell is customised to make it more usable.

gnome 3 fall back mode can be customised. To right click like this guy does in the video, you haev to hold the ALT key.

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6sVby2RIWE4](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6sVby2RIWE4)

Synaptic package manager no longer comes default. you need to install it via software center.

---

### Post by T.exe on 2011-11-26
Yes.. please install synaptic.. I personally recommend it! :D
[B]
sudo apt-get install synaptic[/B]

---

### Post by ernestj on 2011-11-26
I think Unity is great! I did however, install Xubuntu and I love it. Try Xubuntu.

---

### Post by bigseb on 2011-11-26
> **ernestj said:**
> I think Unity is great! I did however, install Xubuntu and I love it. Try Xubuntu.


I have been hearing this a lot. I suppose its worth a shot.

---

