---
title: "bash script help"
date: 2012-08-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jdm2 on 2012-08-04
I'm working on a bash script to read a list of usernames and then reset each user password with their name.  For example user teacher password 123 run script user teacher password teacher.  I'm trying to make a bash script to do this for a teacher that I'm setting up a server for at school.  The teacher isn't familar with linux and she will only need to run this script once or twice a year when she gets new students.  She knows the command to change passwords, but she will have around 30 students and she lets them pick their passwords then changes them later, but until she gets around to doing that she needs the students to be able to log into the system.  I ususally try and help her out, but with work and school I can't get there to help her sometimes.  I want to make this server as easy to run as possible.  I have most of that done.  Just need help with this part.  

Thanks for the help.  

I found this online and it seems like it will work on other linux distros, but not ubuntu.

#!/bin/sh
for i in 'more userlist.txt'
do
echo $i
echo $i | passwd --stdin "$i"
echo; echo "User $i's password changed!"
done

---

### Post by codemaniac on 2012-08-04
> Nothing you can do in bash can possibly work. passwd(1) does not read from standard input. This is intentional. It is for your protection. Passwords were never intended to be put into programs, or generated by programs. They were intended to be entered only by the fingers of an actual human being, with a functional brain, and never, ever written down anywhere. So before you continue, consider the possibility that the authors of passwd(1) were on to something, and you probably shouldn't be trying to script passwd(1) input.

Nonetheless, we get hordes of users asking how they can circumvent 35 years of Unix security.


Here is some nice and wise reading for you .

[http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashFAQ/078](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashFAQ/078)

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2012-08-04
+1

I'd use pwgen to generate random passwords and newusers to create the users or change their password. Assuming that userlist contains the user names line by line:
```
while read -r line
do
    echo "$line:$(pwgen -1):::::"
done < userlist > newlist

```

```
sudo newusers ./newlist
```

---

### Post by jdm2 on 2012-08-04
Thanks for the help.  I will take a look and give them a try.

---

