---
title: "13.4: After 2 months... stable enough?"
date: 2013-06-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hipogrito on 2013-06-12
Hello,

It's been like 2 months since the release of 13.4. Would people say that it is stable enough at this point after latest fixes? At least comparable stability to 12.10 or 12.4 (the best, in terms of stability, for me at the moment)?

Thanks,

Regards,
Hipo

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2013-06-12
Has been very stable since it was beta, there was a issue 1 week before the release date with the kernel, look in the know bugs sticky in general help for a workaround it it gives you a issue after installing update
i am using xubuntu

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-06-12
Clear some space, make a 15Gb partition, stick it on using your existing /home and /swap partitions (if you have a /home partition) and find out. That way, you keep your stable 12.04 LTS as a fallback. I have 12.04 LTS, my main squeeze, and three spare partitions on my machine for playthings. 

You can also stick /home on /, as per normal, as a directory, kill the folders in there and replace them with symlinks to the directories with your data in them in your existing 12.04 install. 

My policy: If it ain't broke, don't fix it. Unless you have a specific reason to upgrade to the unknown from a working, stable setup, I would hang onto the 12.04 install and install elsewhere (try it off the disk from a start). 

My 2c.

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2013-06-12
Ubuntu 13.04 is a very complete operating system with few or no bugs. There were no huge improvements or changes made since 12.10. If you're trying to decide which version to install, then there's something to be said for sticking with 12.04, especially if the stability of the OS is an extreme concern for you. 12.04 is really nice, too. But if you want the latest and greatest software, then it would be advisable to keep upgrading to minor versions after installing 13.04 rather than stick with the LTS versions.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2013-06-12
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> Has been very stable since it was beta, there was a issue 1 week before the release date with the kernel, look in the know bugs sticky in general help for a workaround it it gives you a issue after installing update
i am using xubuntu

+1
Ubuntu 13.04 is stable enough for general use. Hell, IMO it was already stable enough as beta.

What you have to keep in mind is to always backup what you consider important before doing anything to your system.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-06-12
> **slickymaster said:**
> 
What you have to keep in mind is to always backup what you consider important before doing anything to your system.

+1

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-06-12
13.04 has become "my main squeeze" ...solid as a rock, and with my set up some kind of fast... Faster than anything I have previously encountered.
[INDENT=2]
just keeps getting better

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-06-12
For more than a year now the developers have been concentrating on making the development versions stable so that application developers can use the Ubuntu under development to test their applications on rather than waiting for the development version to be released as the next Ubuntu version.

I am running the Saucy Salamander development version. I am using it daily. It is stable. Once I get logged into it. My first attempt this morning got me a black screen with a flashing white cursor, just when I should have been getting the log in screen. The same thing happened when I tried Recover Mode> Resume. But I was successful at my third attempt. Sometimes it will load and sometimes I need recovery mode. Sometimes, even that does not work. But once I am at a desktop everything is fine. I just think that I have got one of those "Will she? Won't she?" installations.

So, I would say that nowadays new releases of Ubuntu are designed to be stable long before release date.

Regards.

---

### Post by hipogrito on 2013-06-17
Hi,

Thanks everybody.

I have been using Ubuntu for the past 6 years or so and I have encountered different problems when upgrading to the next version. Sometimes minor problems, sometimes severe. Normally, after a couple of months or so there is a linux kernel upgrade that solve most of the problems typically. That was why I asked if we consider 13.4 already as solid as 13.4 will be or not.

Examples are multiple and probably boring for most people, as everybody uses the machine in a different way, a quick list of things that got me in the problems in the past, so that people know what I am talking about is, wireless drivers (long time ago... much better nowadays), packages conflicting (for a long time the Braillie package was conflicting with serial ports, and I use one to control external hardware) to the most recently 12.10 does not (or did not?) work as well with Gnome 3 as 12.4. Actually I downgraded 12.10 to 12.4 because the lack of complete Gnome 3 functionality/bugs?... just to name some examples.

Regards,
Hipo

---

