---
title: ".bin problems"
date: 2008-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hyburn on 2008-11-12
hey guys, I found a game made by linux'ers for linux'ers. its a .bin file, im new and ignorant of the command line commands as of yet. can somebody help me get into this file so I can install and play as well as learn

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-11-12
> **hyburn said:**
> its a .bin file, im new and ignorant of the command line commands as of yet

Usually, .bin indicates a binary executable file. You can execute it directly like any other program. Use the directions below:

CAUTION: You have not specified any name, description and/or location for the .bin file you have. If you've pulled up a trojan / virus you follow these instructions at your own risk.

GUI method: Right click the file you've downloaded; choose Properties-Permissions-"Allow executing file as program"; then "Close". Now double-clicking the file should launch it.

Alternate (If the game is a terminal based app, or the above does not work):

Open a terminal (Applications-Accessories-Terminal), navigate to the directory containing the downloaded file, give it execute permissions and then execute it```
cd ~/downloads
chmod u+x somegame.bin
./somegame.bin

```

---

### Post by john183 on 2008-11-12
Correct me if i am wrong (as i very well may be) but couldn't the .bin file also be an image that need to be burned to a cd?

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-11-12
> **john183 said:**
> Correct me if i am wrong (as i very well may be) but couldn't the .bin file also be an image that need to be burned to a cd?

No you're quite right; .bin can also be a CD image to be burnt onto a CD.

---

