---
title: "..well, why is it always me?"
date: 2006-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sunrex on 2006-10-24
well, i left linux for a bit, im the type of person that moves around every few months.

Last time i used ubuntu it was fine, ran 100%, easy to install.. like always.

so I got a new mouse and keyboard (wireless) and a new graphics card.

The mouse and keyboard would not work on the boot-up image, with start ubuntu in safe mode or any of that crap, then it automaticly started ubuntu in normal mode even though i couldn't do a thing.

So it boots up fine until the X-server starts loading, I have had problems with the Xorg server in the past, but in the past I had ATI.. this time i had nivida, for a few reasons, one, i heard how it worked great on linux, two, i wanted to try it, and three, im the type of person that likes new things.

it failed to load the xorg server, and i have no clue whats wrong, Im assuming the driver does not work with my card.

ubuntu-6.06.1-desktop-i386.iso - thats the ISO i used.

my card is.. oh god, what is it? I know it was a 512MB DDR2, Nivida, I think 7600 GS.. ill just go check.

yup, Nivida geforce 7600GS.

are there any known problems with this card?

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by niko7865 on 2006-10-24
My wireless keyboard and mouse work fine [Microsoft Wireless Desktop Elite]. I also had problems booting off the CD into the regular mode, had to use safe graphics [GeForce 6800] but installing the drivers and getting 3d support is alot better then when I had an ATI card. Best of luck and hopefully someone can help out with the keyboard situation.

---

### Post by sunrex on 2006-10-25
You misunderstood me, my mouse and keyboard do work fine, its only when the boot-menu comes up that it wont work.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-10-25
> **sunrex said:**
> You misunderstood me, my mouse and keyboard do work fine, its only when the boot-menu comes up that it wont work.

Is it a USB keyboard? I understand that you need to turn on an option in the motherboard's BIOS setup screen if you want to be able to use USB devices before the OS's drivers have been loaded.

---

### Post by sunrex on 2006-10-25
it is a usb keyboard.

---

### Post by sunrex on 2006-10-25
does anyone know why the xorg server wont load though?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-10-25
> **sunrex said:**
> does anyone know why the xorg server wont load though?

The planets aren't aligned properly?

When it won't load, what happens? Does it tell you that it doesn't load? Does Ctrl-Alt-F2 work?

---

### Post by sunrex on 2006-10-25
Cat, The only problem I have with my mouse and keyboard are that they WONT work on GRUB, then after it auto-loads ubuntu its fine, im talking about GRUB on the CD, not HDD.

And the system boots off the CD, so ubuntu live, when it gets to the XORG part, it says the x-server failed to load blablabla, takes me to the server terminal screen.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-10-25
> **sunrex said:**
> Cat, The only problem I have with my mouse and keyboard are that they WONT work on GRUB, then after it auto-loads ubuntu its fine, im talking about GRUB on the CD, not HDD.

That's right. You can turn it on in the BIOS if you'd like some kind of early keyboard ability, but I thought you were cool with that. The Ctrl-Alt-F2 is for after X has failed to start. I'm sure I said. I thought I was quite clear.

> And the system boots off the CD, so ubuntu live, when it gets to the XORG part, it says the x-server failed to load blablabla, takes me to the server terminal screen.

See, this is all useful information. So if you've got a functional terminal, you can use ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` to set up X in a more appropriate way for your configuration, and then use Ctrl-Alt-Backspace to restart X without restarting the computer. You'll have to do this, if it works, each time you reboot.

Or you could just download the Alternate cd and do a text mode install. Or sort out your keyboard and use some of the setup options that come with the cd you've got. Or wait some number of hours and use Edgy.

EDIT: The option in the BIOS of my motherboard is confusingly called "Legacy USB". Yours may be similarly inexplicably named.

EDIT 2: It should be apparent that due to the amazing wisdom of the people that decide what BIOS defaults should be, you'll need to use a non-USB keyboard to get into the BIOS, to give yourself the ability to use a USB keyboard before Linux has loaded USB drivers :roll:

---

