---
title: "Ubuntu freezes shortly after login"
date: 2011-06-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by grrosegr on 2011-06-20
Hello,

I'm trying to use Ubuntu 11.04 on my desktop computer after not having it for a few years (I've actually been waiting for new releases to fix this since it started around 9.04, with no such luck). However, it freezes within  minutes after logging in just after a fresh install (triggered by trying to do pretty much anything beyond just moving the mouse, opening menus, etc., although I was able to apt-get install a few packages through terminal with no problems and run update manager) with no explanation. I was able to install Ubuntu through the Alternate installer, however. Normally, I would just search the internet (including this forum) (I've solved several problems that way), but this problem wass too broad for me to find anything useful and specific.

Actions before freezes include browsing the web with Firefox, trying to mount NTFS drives in Computer, and particularly predicatably when opening any non-terminal package manager program.

Freezes occur reliably whether in full-featured mode or in Safe Mode.

Initially, I thought the problem was related to my USB Microsoft Wireless Laser Mouse 5000, but replacing it with a standard non-USB mouse fixed nothing. The Microsoft Mouse does however freeze up by itself on separate occasions, leaving the system operable with the keyboard (independent of whatever the other problem is).

I'm only able to post this from Windows XP.

**Text Dumps** **(links):**
[Hardware Info Summary generated by Speccy]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/630015/")
[dmesg dump after freeze and hard shutdown (collected from WinXP)]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/630017/")
[Xorg.0.log after freeze]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/630020/")

I would really appreciate any help, thanks in advance!

---

### Post by grrosegr on 2011-06-22
Bump

---

### Post by grrosegr on 2011-06-25
Please help, I'm really getting tired of Windows, and Ubuntu is awesome

---

### Post by grrosegr on 2011-07-03
Bump

---

### Post by grrosegr on 2011-07-09
Would I be better off asking somewhere else...?

---

