---
title: "11.10 Bug?"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheMidnightWings on 2011-10-14
Hm, well I dunno if this is supposed to happen, or not. If this makes me seem like a complete idiot, feel free to say so. But, when I use the Chrome/Chromium web browser in 11.10, whenever I minimize the window, I can't remaxmize them. I don't know where they go and I can't seem to find them, help? This happens with Skype too, but I just have to activate it.. I'm so confused. :(

---

### Post by ubupirate on 2011-10-14
Bring up the Unity launcher (move mouse cursor to far left screen, or press Windows key and hover mouse over Unity bar), and they should be on there if they are still open. Just click the app in the launcher and it will maximize it again.

---

### Post by BlacqWolf on 2011-10-14
You can also try ALT-TAB, usually even in cases which they are minimized but aren't shown in the launcher or multitasking menu.

---

### Post by oaklandy on 2011-10-16
I'm having the same problem as MidnightWings -- the windows effectively close when I click minimize -- they're not visible on the Launcher or via Alt-Tab.

> **TheMidnightWings said:**
> Hm, well I dunno if this is supposed to happen, or not. If this makes me seem like a complete idiot, feel free to say so. But, when I use the Chrome/Chromium web browser in 11.10, whenever I minimize the window, I can't remaxmize them. I don't know where they go and I can't seem to find them, help? This happens with Skype too, but I just have to activate it.. I'm so confused. :(

---

### Post by oaklandy on 2011-10-16
OK, well, after restarting this problem went away.  Newbie.

> **oaklandy said:**
> I'm having the same problem as MidnightWings -- the windows effectively close when I click minimize -- they're not visible on the Launcher or via Alt-Tab.

---

