---
title: "11.10 Archive manager will not recognise EAR and WAR file extentions"
date: 2011-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Fudz on 2011-10-28
After an update to 11.10 I am having to change my file extentions to JAR files for all my Enterprise applications when I'm playing around with my archives. I've tired installing lots of different tools and fresh install of Archive manager. However I can't seem to resolve this.
Please let me know if you want me to send any further details to you. I'm a bit of a Linux Newbee so go easy on me!

Edit: By the way.. The app archieve manager tries to open up the file but give the following error:

"Could not open "ProductionTracking.war"

Archive type not supported."



Fudz

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-10-28
set "open with" preference for such cases (right click on package)

---

### Post by Fudz on 2011-10-28
> **dino99 said:**
> set "open with" preference for such cases (right click on package)

Already set to the application. Launches and says its not a supported extension within archive manager.

---

### Post by Fudz on 2011-11-01
Anyone else having problems with this? Maybe I'm not being very clear:

1. I double click an EAR or WAR file
2. Archive manager launches
3. a popup window opens with the following message:
"Could not open "<Name of file>.ear"

Archive type not supported."

There is no config options to say that EAR/WAR files are to be opened as zip archives. Also if you click the open button in archive manager "All Archives" hides EAR and WAR files from view. There must be a MIME type or similar that needs to be mapped?

Thanks for any help,

Pete

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-11-01
Since these filetypes are based on JAR files, have you tried using Java to open the files?

---

### Post by dspencer9 on 2012-01-16
I'm also having this problem. For  years, archive manager automatically opened war and ear files. It still opens jar files automatically. I'm assuming that this broke in 11.10. I use Fedora 12 at work and the version of archive manager I have there still opens war, ear, and jar files. These three types of files are zip files with their own extensions. As the original poster notes, renaming the extensions will allow AM to open them, but this isn't a long term solution.

Is there a config setting somewhere that anyone knows of that AM uses to determine what it will open?

---

### Post by Xgen on 2012-01-16
Hmm...never heard of these extensions, but downloaded a sample.war as a test. On Precise/Oneiric archive manager would not open the file, but after removing 'kdelibs5-data' and it's dependents (k3b) it opened just fine with the same manager. Not a proper solution, but it proves there is a conflict. Will investigate further....

---

