---
title: "10.04 wireless RT2860 bug 545443 in need of extra love?"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tahina on 2010-04-29
Hi! 

"Lucid on Asus EEE PC 901 and 1000H fails to connect to any wireless network" [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/545443](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/545443)
[COLOR="Red"]
Edit: This bug is marked as a dupe of this more active bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/496093](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/496093) So, it isn't as unloved as I previously thought. [/Edit][/COLOR]

Seems this affects quite popular netbooks and was working in 9.10, making it a regression. 

Apparently not all eee pc 901 or eee pc 1000H users are affected, but still, the bugs importance is "undecided"  and it is also "unassigned", which to me doesn't seem proper.

If someone could explain why I might be wrong or how to contribute to the bug report (I have an affected eee pc 901), that'd be swell. Peace.

---

### Post by Strange_Movement on 2010-04-30
Does anybody know how to fix the non-working RT2860 in the Asus eee 901 in a manner that would allow us to use all wireless networks through the network manager GUI **AND** continue to work after any official updates ?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-30
found this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1045703&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1045703&page=3) look post 27

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-30
other way, download and install (with gdebi, install it first) the deb file:

[http://packages.debian.org/en/sid/all/rt2860-source/download](http://packages.debian.org/en/sid/all/rt2860-source/download)
then, check wifi quality, if it dont work, download the source and do into console:

sudo apt-get install debhelper module-assistant
sudo m-a a-i rt2860
sudo modprobe rt2860sta
sudo echo rt2860sta >> /etc/modules

( use copy/paste its easier)

---

### Post by tahina on 2010-04-30
I just noticed this bug, #545443 is marked as a duplicate of bug #496093 with the somewhat misleading title "[lucid] rt2860 frequently fails to connect to mixed mode WPA/WPA2 secured wireless networks".

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/496093](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/496093)

The title is misleading in the sense that I don't have mixed mode, just wpa2. But it seems other people on that bug report don't have mixed mode either, so it being duplicate may be right. 

So, it seems this bug isn't as unloved as I previously thought. That's good.

---

### Post by Strange_Movement on 2010-04-30
Thanks for the post dino99, I'll have a look when I get home tonight but I'm a bit concerned that the post you linked refers to Intrepid and N connection speed. I really want to be able to use Lucid with **ALL** network types.

Any further assistance would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by tahina on 2010-04-30
Thanks dino99!

I'll still hang tight for a while and follow the official progress, though, since my eee pc 901 is just for testing the new release and constantly hooked up to the wired network. If this hasn't been updated before I need to take the computer with me, I'll be sure to follow your instructions.

Edit: The duplicate, Bug #496093, is aimed at the milestone "Ubuntu lucid-updates", which I presume will trickle out little by little after the release, hence the hanging tight for a while at least, for my part.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-30
> **Strange_Movement said:**
> Thanks for the post dino99, I'll have a look when I get home tonight but I'm a bit concerned that the post you linked refers to Intrepid and N connection speed. I really want to be able to use Lucid with **ALL** network types.

Any further assistance would be greatly appreciated.

look at post 4

---

### Post by Strange_Movement on 2010-04-30
Doh ! I just read some more of the post. Thanks dino99 I'll have a better look at what I can do later.

---

### Post by tahina on 2010-04-30
Ahem, now I'm somewhat confused as to the meaning of mixed mode... I assumed that related to WPA/WPA2, but I had set my router to WPA2 and set security algorithms to TKIP+AES. Maybe that effectively meant mixed mode?

When I set the "WPA algorithm" to just "AES", the 901 connected fine. So, it seems I might have been wrong about the title of the dupe bug (#496093) being misleading and that it indeed affects just "mixed" mode, if that is what I actually had previously without knowing it. But the routers web interface did give me a choice for mixed security mode which wasn't set, so maybe I had two ways of setting the same thing?

---

### Post by Strange_Movement on 2010-04-30
I was under the impression that the RT2860 in the eee 901 was a problem attempting to connect to any kind WPA wireless network and that it could be a little flakey on any other wireless network unless the older drivers are used (i.e. older than 1.8.0.0).

All I really know is that it won't work with how I mostly want to use it :(

---

### Post by tahina on 2010-04-30
Now that mine seems to work (touch wood, won't know if it's stable or flaky for a while, obviously), but if others indeed have problems connecting to any kind of WPA secured AP, maybe the two bugs I've talked about here shouldn't be duplicates after all. 

In that case maybe I don't have the bug I mentioned in the title, but just the other one. Or maybe the bug is the same with different symptoms for different people (maybe because of slight differences in their rt2860?).

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-30
have seen somewhere that some guys have had better results if settings are not set "automatic", might try each tweak that could work for you.

by the way, as wifi are modules mostly built-in kernels now, if you have problems with your kernel, you might give a try with a newest one ([http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/daily/current/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/daily/current/))

To those looking for new hardware, i've to say that broadcom today have so much issues, better to choose realtek if possible.

---

### Post by Strange_Movement on 2010-04-30
I would swap my wireless NIC if I could be confident that what I was buying was going to be fully supported for all network speeds and all network security types **AND** it wasn't too expensive.

---

### Post by nucleuskore on 2010-05-02
I have ASUS eeepc 1000H with Network controller: RaLink RT2860. I tried to get the card to work with my WPA wireless router at home without success, although it works flawlessly on open networks. As compiling the driver from the manufacturers website did not work for me, 

I decided to try something different. I just did a fresh install, and installed the package linux-backports-modules-wireless-2.6.32-21-generic. The card worked great without the need for any more packages or tweaks. I used the netbook like this for an hour. Mind you just the regular install + linux-backports-modules-wireless-2.6.32-21-generic. However when I rebooted the system the card gives the same trouble as earlier. I am sharing this experience here with the hope that this might somehow be of help to solve this problem.

---

### Post by nicolas.collart on 2010-05-02
Hello!

I am facing the same problem for the 2860... I tried solution suggested by dino99, it did not work me...

---

### Post by PhilGil on 2010-05-02
I've posted this in a couple of other threads on the RT2860, so I'll post it here, too...

I'm successfully using Ricardo Salveti's custom kernel from the  launchpad bug report, post #53: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ux/+bug/496093]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/496093") .  I have an EEE PC 1000h.

Some folks are also reporting success by downloading and compiling the driver.  Here is a tutorial posted by forum member [ctbarker32]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=87990"): [http://www.ctbarker.info/2010/05/ubuntu-1004-wireless-chipsets-and-wpa.html](http://www.ctbarker.info/2010/05/ubuntu-1004-wireless-chipsets-and-wpa.html)

---

### Post by Spongeblunt on 2010-05-04
eee901 user here, on plain install of 10.04 I couldn't even detect any wireless networks, I initially tried to compile the Ralink driver from the website; after a few attempts it succeeded and connected and I was able to browse the net. Unfortunately on restart it connected to the network but I was unable to browse the net or update the machine.

After this I tried to install the modified kernel but so far it has changed nothing; I'm still unable to browse the net.

As other have said; this problem has existed for a while and was previously solved by installing the Array.org kernel but with Array no longer providing support it has returned.

If anyone can help me get back to a working wireless connection it would be much(ly) appreciated.

---

### Post by zordo on 2010-05-07
The kernel from [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1440483") topic worked fine for my 1000H. You will also have to compile the ralink driver after that kernel update. I also recommend installing eee-control in order to quiet down the fan when it is not needed.

Could somebody please post in this topic when this annoying problem has left lucid lynx and i can start to recommend ubuntu again. This should'nt be hard to fix because everything worked fine before lucid.

---

### Post by Kenda on 2010-08-15
The backports Kernel mentioned above linux-backports-modules-wireless-2.6.32-21-generic worked perfectly..thanks

---

