---
title: "15.10 Update manager error"
date: 2015-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mskogly on 2015-11-17
Any idea what this might be and how to fix it. Ubuntu 15.10 running on freshly installed thinkpad t61p.


Please report this bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the following error message:
E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily-updates_main_i18n_Translation-en - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily-updates_multiverse_binary-i386_Packages - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily-updates_universe_binary-i386_Packages - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily-updates_restricted_binary-i386_Packages - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily-updates_main_binary-i386_Packages - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily_universe_i18n_Translation-en - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily_restricted_i18n_Translation-en - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily_multiverse_i18n_Translation-en - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily_main_i18n_Translation-en - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily_multiverse_binary-i386_Packages - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily_universe_binary-i386_Packages - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily_restricted_binary-i386_Packages - open (2: No such file or directory), E:Could not open file /var/lib/apt/lists/no.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_wily_main_binary-i386_Packages - open (2: No such file or directory)

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-11-17
Looks like the package database is empty.
How new is the install? Same day?
Have you created the package database with 'sudo apt-get update'? Did that command give any errors?

---

### Post by mskogly on 2015-11-17
Don't remember if I ran sudo apt-get update before I got that error, but probably not. Installed it yesterday. But I know I ran Software updater several times.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-11-17
I don't use Software Updater anymore - my workflow is different. But back when I did in early 14.04, SU assumed that the system already had an updated package database - it didn't check because that check can take up to a minute or two on slower connections, and users get understandably impatient after a few seconds.

So there's a cron job that runs daily (you can change the frequency) to update the package database (which is most of what 'sudo apt-get update' does, too). When a user does run Software Updater, it's nice and fast.

This means that the only time you would get 'file not found' errors in the database files (which is what you had) is if you didn't create the database manually (sudo apt-get update), and during the few hours before that cron job runs for the first time.

Why doesn't the system simply create the database during the install? Well, it could...if the same sources from the installer will also be used on the installed system (not necessarily true in many cases).

Why doesn't the system create the database at first boot? Well, it could, but it doesn't seem necessary - Ubuntu usually installs all updates as part of the install (before reboot), and most users will install using Software Center, which *will* update the package database. The problem only occurs to power-users who don't use Software Center, didn't run apt-get update, and only during the first few hours after install.

---

### Post by mskogly on 2015-11-17
I think the root of the problem was that I installed when offline, so the update scripts never ran.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2015-11-17
Moved to General Help.

---

### Post by kryten35 on 2015-11-17
Software updater always checks for package updates using the mirror you
selected or the default one for your country.It would be pretty useless if it didnt.
Its a GUI alternative to using the command line.

Servers sometimes go down for various reasons.If having problems downloading,you can select another server :Software &Updates>Ubuntu Software>Download from  and select other.

---

