---
title: "3.5.0-23-generic bug updater"
date: 2013-02-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thedardanius on 2013-02-12
When I update my linux headers to that version, the software updater suddenly stops and freezes. Therefore, after frocequitting, the update is incomplete but it seems to be impossible to actually complete.

Also, what happens if I download newer kernel headers? Do i get the source or the binaries, or does my OS compile these sources?? please explain..

---

### Post by thedardanius on 2013-02-12
When I update my linux headers to that version, the software updater suddenly stops and freezes. Therefore, after frocequitting, the update is incomplete but it seems to be impossible to actually complete.

Also, what happens if I download newer kernel headers? Do i get the source or the binaries, or does my OS compile these sources?? please explain..
 
Ubuntu 12.10, running linux 3.5.0-17 no prob, but 3.5.0-23 the resolution is bad, cant see mouse etc. probably bad driver. It doest show that it uses the nvidia driver, maybe that failed.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-02-12
I think this is the third thread you started on this subject. This will make it difficult to get coherent answers.

The kernel headers are just that: headers, made for your kernel version. Your desktop and some drivers depend on them. The actual kernel is in the package linux-image-<some number>. It's a precompiled binary. It's not compiled as part of the installation process.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-02-12
I have merged your other thread with this one (as you had a reply here) and deleted your duplicate post. Please refrain from posting duplicate threads. Thanks.

BB

---

### Post by thedardanius on 2013-02-14
Thanks, but please, what does it mean when i install new linux headers?? the source? why did i get a new (incomplete) kernel version?
The updater is buggy at me. It stops whenever it tries to retrieve a certain linux header. Please help me!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-02-14
Might help if you could give details of the exact error and the header it is stalling on ...

Take a screenshot if you can or copy/paste the error here.

---

