---
title: "/etc/hosts is restored to default every time I go offline"
date: 2010-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lyuba on 2010-10-16
Hello, community!

After I upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10, my /etc/hosts, which had been previously edited by me, restored to default. 
I configured it again and was able to work for a while - untill I went offline. 
Each time I go offline since the upgrade, Ubuntu restores this file to default deleting my domains from it.

Why does this happen and is there any way to fix this?

Thank you for your suggestions in advance!

---

### Post by btindie on 2010-10-16
I'm not sure why this is happening. I tried adding an entry to my /etc/hosts on a clean install of 10.10 and it remained after I disconnected/connected. Have you installed something that could be modifying it?

Do you have many hosts configured? As an alternative you could run your own light weight DNS server - [dnsmasq]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Dnsmasq") with resolvconf, it also acts as a caching DNS server.

/etc/resolv.conf is then automatically generated by the resolvconf package, using 127.0.0.1 (dnsmasq) as the DNS server. The resolvconf package also generates a resolv.conf like file for use with dnsmasq for it to contact the upstream servers - /var/run/dnsmasq/resolv.conf. You can then define your hosts in the dnsmasq.conf file or as a separate hosts style file that is then included (addn-hosts).

In addition that then also allows you to setup [Ad Blocking]("http://wiki.flexion.org/SettingUpDNSMasq.html")...

---

### Post by lyuba on 2010-10-22
btindie, 

I use the internet though proxy - can it cause overwriting the file? I also use vpn.

I've tried to change the permissions for this file according to this suggestion: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9971942](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9971942)
But something overwrites it with root permissions. 

As for dns, telling the truth, I understand nothing from what you've wrote... Could you please explain in simpler words? :)

---

### Post by btindie on 2010-10-23
> **lyuba said:**
> btindie, 
 
I use the internet though proxy - can it cause overwriting the file? I also use vpn.
 
I've tried to change the permissions for this file according to this suggestion: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9971942](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9971942)
But something overwrites it with root permissions. 
 
As for dns, telling the truth, I understand nothing from what you've wrote... Could you please explain in simpler words? :)
 
Accessing the web via a proxy won't cause this problem and I wouldn't have thought using a VPN would do either, they don't have any need to modify hosts.
 
Reading the thread you provided gave me an idea. I do recall seeing in my own hosts file a line modified by NetworkManager providing a mapping between my DHCP address and hostname. I don't know if when NM updates the file, it keeps a copy of the original somewhere then when it disconnects restores this copy. So if you make changes when you're connected via NM, you loose the changes when it disconnects. Try disconnecting from your network using NM, then editing hosts and reconnecting. That should hopefully keep the changes.
 
As for DNS, the way it would normally work is this. When you get an IP address via DHCP you would also get the IP address of your DNS server on the network. This tends to be your ADSL router. The method I outlined in my previous post and that is described in the links I provided inserts another DNS inbetween your client request and the main DNS server on your network allowing it to intercept DNS requests. You can do two things with this. 1) use a hosts file to contain your records that would be in /etc/hosts - leaving that file untouched. 2) fake the IP address of ad sites thereby allowing you to capture the requests and directing them to a local pixel server to remove the junk from web pages and also save on bandwidth. If something is modifying /etc/hosts, it would not affect the additional hosts file used by dnsmasq.
As an example, DNS requests would take the following route
client -> 192.168.1.254 -> ISP DNS
Using DNSmasq it would then use
client -> 127.0.0.1 -> 192.168.1.254 -> ISP DNS
It also acts as a caching DNS, speeding up requests. When it changes the IP address of ad sites you would set it to 127.0.0.1 (or 127.0.1.1 if you've already got a webserver running) which directs requests to the loopback interface. You then setup pixelserv to serve a dummy pixel in place on the original ad.
 
There's a bug report for it [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/659872](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/659872) and it may be fixed/inprogress...

---

### Post by lyuba on 2010-10-23
btindie,

the bug has disappeared, probably they sent a fix in some of recent updates! :) Thank you anyway!

---

### Post by btindie on 2010-10-25
Glad to hear that lyuba, please mark your thread as solved.

---

