---
title: "10.04. - Where is the MeMenu?"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Archmage on 2010-04-29
Okay, maybe I'm totally stupid, but where is the MeMenu that should be new in the 10.04?

I just updated from 08.04 and it isn't there?

According to the below screenshot I should find it in the right corner of my screen, but it isn't there. (Neither is the shut down button). How can I activate it?

[IMG]http://img695.imageshack.us/img695/632/93544092.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by danisgood on 2010-04-29
Have you tried right clicking on the panel and selecting add to panel? It may be in there. I cannot say if it is or not as I cannot even boot yet, but that may help you.

---

### Post by Calash on 2010-04-29
Try adding another Indicator Applet Session to the panel.  Sometimes you have to do that so it updates.

If not you may be missing the indicator-me package.

---

### Post by Archmage on 2010-04-29
> **Calash said:**
> Try adding another Indicator Applet Session to the panel.  Sometimes you have to do that so it updates.

Thanks that did the trick. Strange, that it does it automatic on the first place. The rest seems to working without any problem.

---

### Post by Calash on 2010-04-29
> **Archmage said:**
> Thanks that did the trick. Strange, that it does it automatic on the first place. The rest seems to working without any problem.

I think it is Gnome trying to preserve your settings.  Since you previously did not have the Me part it assumed you do not want it.

It does the same to the volume indicator.  You have to add a new Indicator Applet to the panel and then it is fine.

---

### Post by betito72 on 2010-04-29
Thank you so much... i lost a lot of time tryin to solve this!

---

### Post by Archmage on 2010-04-30
> **Calash said:**
> It does the same to the volume indicator.  You have to add a new Indicator Applet to the panel and then it is fine.

Great. I didn't have this one either. Now I'm starting to wonder how much things I'm missing in my Ubuntu, since I was upgrading to each release from 6.06 on. :confused:

---

### Post by CronoDekar on 2010-05-01
Well, I did a fresh install myself, but using an existing /home partition, and I didn't notice either.  I was wondering where it was, since I couldn't find a "MeMenu" in the applet.  Fortunately, this helped me find it.  Thanks!

Now what I'm going to do with it, I don't know... especially since I don't Twitter/Facebook/etc.

---

