---
title: "bash read command not assigning the target variables"
date: 2011-01-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rpaskudniak on 2011-01-02
Greetings.  Hmmm.  I'm juggling so many issues at once. :-({|=

I am having trouble getting variable assignments to stick around when they were assigned by the *[FONT="Courier New"]read[/FONT]* command in bash.

Consider this command in ksh:
```
$ echo one two three | read A B C
$ echo $A
one
$ echo $B
two
$ echo $C
three
```
As you can see, the read succeeded as expected.  Now when I do the same in bash, I get nada! The echo shows that none of the variables have been assigned.
```
rasputin@maxwell:~$ echo one two three | read A B C
rasputin@maxwell:~$ echo $A $B $C
<nothing>
```
Nothing!  The <nothing> is my entry - empty places don't show up in the forum otherwise.

I am having trouble with another script as well.  Yes, I have one part working with finesse but the brute force method should have worked perfectly.

Here's the method that works with BASH-worthy finesse:
```
  1 #!/bin/bash
  2 COUNT=0
  3 PATH_DIR=(
  4 $(echo $PATH |tr ':' '
  5 ') )
  6 printf "After initializing, I have <%d> elements\n" ${#PATH_DIR[@]}
  7 
  8 LC=0
  9 while [[ $LC -lt ${#PATH_DIR[@]} ]]
 10 do
 11   printf "Directory[%d] = <%s>\n" $LC ${PATH_DIR[$((LC++))]}
 12 done
```I have used bash featured to finesse this.  Here's the output:
> rasputin@maxwell:~/test$ ./test_array2a
After initializing, I have <7> elements
Directory[0] = </usr/local/sbin>
Directory[1] = </usr/local/bin>
Directory[2] = </usr/sbin>
Directory[3] = </usr/bin>
Directory[4] = </sbin>
Directory[5] = </bin>
Directory[6] = </usr/games>This is working exactly as desired.  However, before I used these features, I tried a scheme similar to the way I would do it in ksh, though trying to use some bash behavior.  Here's the more brute force code that barfs:
```
  1 #!/bin/bash
  2 COUNT=0
  3 echo $PATH |tr ':' '
  4 ' | while read LINE
  5 do
  6   PATH_DIR[$((++COUNT))]=$LINE
  7   printf "I have set PATH_DIR[%d] to <%s>\n" $COUNT ${PATH_DIR[$COUNT]}
  8 done
  9 
 10 printf "After above, COUNT = <%d> (or <%d>)\n" $COUNT ${#PATH_DIR[@]}
 11 
 12 LC=0
 13 while [[ $LC -le ${#PATH_DIR[@]} ]]
 14 do
 15   printf "Directory[%d] = <%s>\n" $LC ${PATH_DIR[$LC]}
 16   ((LC++))
 17 done
 18 
 19 # Repeat above, but I happen to know there are 7 directories in $PATH
 20 LC=0
 21 while [[ $LC -lt 7 ]]
 22 do
 23   printf "Directory[%d] = <%s>\n" $LC ${PATH_DIR[$LC]}
 24   ((LC++))
 25 done
```And the output looks like this:
> resputin@maxwell:~/test$ ./test_array1a
I have set PATH_DIR[1] to </usr/local/sbin>
I have set PATH_DIR[2] to </usr/local/bin>
I have set PATH_DIR[3] to </usr/sbin>
I have set PATH_DIR[4] to </usr/bin>
I have set PATH_DIR[5] to </sbin>
I have set PATH_DIR[6] to </bin>
I have set PATH_DIR[7] to </usr/games>
After above, COUNT = <0> (or <0>)
Directory[0] = <>
Directory[0] = <>
Directory[1] = <>
Directory[2] = <>
Directory[3] = <>
Directory[4] = <>
Directory[5] = <>
Directory[6] = <>

Commentary: The lines that start with "I have set" show clearly that COUNT is being properly updated and that the array elements are being correctly assigned. However, the line that starts "After above", generated by line 10 in my code, shows that COUNT is back to 0 and that the array itself has no values assigned in its elements.  Indeed, when I  use the literal upper limit (7), I see that all elements of the array are empty strings, although I have just printed them, along with the running values of COUNT in line 7 of the code.

What's going on here?  How did the values vanish?  It's as though the loop that generated the successful output had been in a subshell with the assignments not propagated back up. :twisted: That would be a ridiculous behavior, since I am using the loop to generate values to be used outside the loop and no programming language would behave that way! ](*,)

What's going on here? :confused:

Thanks much for help here.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-01-02
Look [here]("http://www.unixguide.net/unix/bash/E4.shtml").

---

### Post by rpaskudniak on 2011-01-02
Teo!

Thanks for introducing me to [that site]("http://www.unixguide.net").  It is interesting to note that I had correctly diagnosed the underlying problem, though I was SO hoping I was wrong.  For the benefit of other readers, I will quote the relevant information from that page:
> Each element of a pipeline runs in a separate process, a child of the shell running the pipeline.  A subprocess cannot affect its parent's environment.  When the `read' command sets the variable to the input, that variable is set only in the subshell, not the parent shell.  When the subshell exits, the value of the variable is lost.That's AWFUL 8-[ and it breaks many scripts I have written of the past 10 years.

This document you referred me to dates from 2002 so, although I might consider it a bug (it was certainly unexpected behavior to me) it is already documented to behave this way and it ain't gonna change. IMHO, documenting it does not make it feel any better when it bites you.

I'd call that a show stopper feature.  I'll just go back to running my scripts with ksh and save myself the *tzuris*. SIGHHhhh...

BTW, before I saw your response, I had already found another PDF guide, _The Advanced Bash-Scripting Guide_ by Mendel Cooper, on page 254.  He does not explain why the read from the pipe will fail, however; he just states that it will fail and demonstrates it with a script.

Thanks for the confirmation.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-01-02
That's why I'm trying to learn C (and maybe later pearl): to do whatever I want without relying on bash-or any other shell...

---

### Post by rpaskudniak on 2011-01-03
I have a philosophical problem about this all.

_Motivation_:
I see that the behavior I am complaining about - that the variables I READ into at the right of a pipeline fail to keep their read values - also exhibits in sh (no surprise there) and pdksh (that is a surprise).  Of the shells I have played with, only ksh and zsh allow a read variable to maintain its value, as in:
```
rasputin@maxwell:~$ zsh
rasputin@maxwell> echo four | read D
rasputin@maxwell> echo $D           
four
```
I now have a rhetorical question: If in bash, sh, and pdksh (I have not tried csh) the variable in the "read" command loses its assigned value in the parent shell, what's the point of the read command anyway?  Ah yes, prompting from the keyboard or reading a single variable from a line in a file via redirected stdin. Oh joy. :neutral:

That [article]("http://www.unixguide.net/unix/bash/E4.shtml") that Teo linked does provide a workaround:
```
set one two three  # Set $1=one, $2=two, $3=three
A=$1
B=$2
C=$3
```
So I needn't give up on bash entirely.  But someone who as gotten hooked on the read as I have might understand my reluctance to adopt this as a *modus operandi*.

All that said:  How does ksh keep the variable values and why don't bash and pdksh  do the same thing?

Puzzling..:confused:

---

### Post by DaithiF on 2011-01-05
This explains it quite nicely:
[http://linuxgazette.net/96/tag/3.html](http://linuxgazette.net/96/tag/3.html)

in bash you can achieve what you want with:

```
read a b c < <(echo one two three)
```

or indeed:
```
read a b c <<< "one two three"

```
though the first form is more useful as usually the values you want to assign will be dynamic (come from the execution of some command), rather than known & hardcoded at script-creation time.

---

### Post by rpaskudniak on 2011-01-05
DaithiF,

Thanks for the reference and for introducing me to these two sites, [[COLOR="Blue"]The Linux Gazette[/COLOR]]("http://www.linuxgazette.net") and [[COLOR="Blue"]LinuxCare[/COLOR]]("http://www.linuxcare.com/"), though the former looks like there is more immediate access to the information we all seek. It also shows me that is is an OOOoooold complaint on bash.

The article you referenced had a link to [another article]("http://www.linuxgazette.net/issue57/tag/1.html"), where the explanation became very clear.  To quote Curtis J Blank and Jim Dennis: > In most shells (including Bourne, older Korn, bash, and pdksh) the subprocess was created to handle the commands on the right of the pipe operator. Thus our 'read' command (in the examples below) is happening in a subshell. I now recall this explanation from Bach's "The Design of the Unix Operating System" as well: When executing a pipeline, the shell forks the process right-most in the pipeline.

Jim Dennis explains that the read I want to do works in ksh and zsh because these shells fork the processes in the pipeline from the left side.  I might take issue with that explanation (assuming I have correctly understood him, always a caveat).  I don't know how [kz]sh do it but bash and other shells could easily fix the problem by making a distinction between an built-in shell command (like *read*) and an executable file, forking only for an executable but running the built-in itself.  It would create a new fd for itself to read from the stdout of the process to the left, intelligently feeding the strings captured from this fd into the named variables, all in the parent shell.

I would also note that the workaround in the article is of limited help.
```
read a b c < <( echo one two three )
```
I cannot think of a way to do this in a loop to capture multiple fields of multiple lines in an array.

My biggest problem, however, is something I had not mentioned before:  That this script is intended as a dot-execute script, within the context of the master shell, in order to set environment variables in the calling session.  So I **_must_** use a syntax that is acceptable to all shells, without dictating to my intended users what their login or scripting shell they must use.  And that syntax does not work in ksh.

My solution may be to do all this string and array manipulation in the current ksh script but as a sub-shell, not a dot-execute. It would then generate the most simplistic set of shell commands in a temp file:
```
export PATH=....
export INFORMIXHOME=...
```
etc. The idea is to have the user dot-execute a small wrapper. The wrapper would call my [mostly written] script as a subshell, which could brazenly run in ksh, writing the above export commands to a temp file. The wrapper would then dot-execute the generated file, setting those environment variables. (And then delete that generated file.)

This has been deliciously instructive.  But now that I have grokked the problem with your help, the above course is fairly clear.  I am open to any other suggestions.  (Now if only there were references in ksh...)

(Funny: The FireFox dictionary has not flagged the word *grok*.)

---

### Post by DaithiF on 2011-01-06
> **rpaskudniak said:**
> 

I would also note that the workaround in the article is of limited help.
```
read a b c < <( echo one two three )
```I cannot think of a way to do this in a loop to capture multiple fields of multiple lines in an array.



I hear what you are saying about needing a shell-agnostic solution, so this won't help you, but just for the record here is your original snippet re-written to use the (bash) construct above:

```
#!/bin/bash
COUNT=0
while read LINE
do
  PATH_DIR[$((++COUNT))]=$LINE
  printf "I have set PATH_DIR[%d] to <%s>\n" $COUNT "${PATH_DIR[$COUNT]}"
done < <(echo $PATH |tr ':' '
' ) 

printf "After above, COUNT = <%d> (or <%d>)\n" $COUNT ${#PATH_DIR[@]}

LC=0
while [[ $LC -le ${#PATH_DIR[@]} ]]
do
  printf "Directory[%d] = <%s>\n" $LC "${PATH_DIR[$LC]}"
  ((LC++))
done

# Repeat above, but I happen to know there are 7 directories in $PATH
LC=0
while [[ $LC -lt 7 ]]
do
  printf "Directory[%d] = <%s>\n" $LC "${PATH_DIR[$LC]}"
  ((LC++))
done

```

---

