---
title: "8.04 Maxes out cpu - not a repost"
date: 2008-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by QualityPancakes on 2008-05-03
I want to apologize if this has been posted, but I haven't been able to find it.

I upgraded to 8.04 from 7.10 yesterday and it is causing my 2.8Ghz P4 with HT to max out. There are no processes using more than 3% cpu. The resource tab is shown below, the choppyness of the image is due to the computer being unable to handle even taking a screenshot.
[IMG]http://i31.photobucket.com/albums/c398/Smib/Screenshot-1.png[/IMG]


Thanks in advance for replies.

EDIT: Fixed crappy phyrefile image.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-03
Upgrading is always iffy business.

[list][*]Do you have visual effects enabled; i.e, are you running Compiz?
```
$ metacity --replace &   # for Gnome
$ kwin --replace &       # for KDE
                         # haven't the slightest idea of what the Xfce one is called
```
If that command makes it drop cpu usage, then Compiz is borked.



[*]If you create a temporary dummy user, does this happen when logged in on him as well?
Else: user-specific, could be window manager, other running process.



[*]If you exit the graphical environment by hitting Ctrl+Alt+F1, then stopping it, does it still seem to max out? (Alt+F7 to return)
```
$ sudo aptitude install htop  # first, install htop, it's greatly superior to top
$ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop   # replace gdm with kdm if KDE
$ htop                        # cpu maxed out?
$ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm        # restart X
```
Else: X-specific, could be settings in xorg.conf.[/list]

---

### Post by QualityPancakes on 2008-05-03
Exiting the gaphical environment seems to reduce cpu usage a lot, and stopping it reduced it to almost nothing. Of course once I restarted the problem had not gone away. Is there something I have to do with xorg.conf?

---

### Post by QualityPancakes on 2008-05-05
OK, I found out that I was not looking at all processes before and that Xorg is using 50% cpu, so I'm assuming I do have an issue with xorg.conf, but being a total noob I really have no idea.

---

### Post by bcardarella on 2008-05-05
Check the Evolution Data Server process. That little ******* will sometimes go haywire with the CPU.

---

### Post by bcardarella on 2008-05-05
Oh yeah, to check and see exactly what process is kill your cycles forget about the GUI app, go to command line and type:

sudo top

This will give you a listing of all processes currently running, type 'q' to quit. Type 'k' to bring up the kill process command, then enter the PID to kill it. That should tell you what is eating your CPU.

---

### Post by QualityPancakes on 2008-05-05
Thanks for replying. When I went into top it shows Xorg as running 80% cpu, with nothing else using much at all.

---

