---
title: "9.04 crashes every 10 minutes"
date: 2009-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shortridge11 on 2009-05-06
I have a studio dell xps 13" and i'm running 9.04.  It crashes every 10 minutes.  Is anyone else having similar problems?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-05-06
Please we need more information. Saying the computer crashes ever 10 minutes means nothing much. Is it freezing up? Is it turning off or restarting without warning? Does the mouse cursor still move but you cant close an application?

What applicatins are you running when this happens?

Could you list what ocmponents the laptop has, processor, RAM, etc.

thanks

---

### Post by shortridge11 on 2009-05-06
everything freezes up after the video gets strange, by strange i mean i can move the mouse for 10 seconds then that freezes too and the display starts to get displaced.  It shifts up so the top portion is at the bottom, and then nothing changes on the screen again.  It seems to happen more when i used firefox, but it happens during ssh sessions as well.  I'm running a Dell studio XPS 1340 with an intel 2.4 dual core. My video card is an Nvidia Geforce 9500M (Geforce 9400MG + Geforce 9200MGS).  It uses one video card by standard and you can turn on both in windows, but i'm not sure about in linux.  I feel like this may be a video problem?  The driver is a proprietary driver though, so not much to do there.  Need any more info?

---

### Post by acimmarusti on 2009-05-06
This might not fix it, but try:

open up a terminal and do:

```

sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-jaunty

```

Try disabling the proprietary driver for a bit. To check if that is the problem

---

### Post by shortridge11 on 2009-05-06
After installing that package, it hasn't crashed in a while.  Now that it seems stable enough to use for a bit, any idea why hibernate and standby don't work correctly?  I put it into hibernate or standby and it sometimes doesn't go into hibernate/standby mode, and it stays on with a black screen.  Sometimes when it does hibernate correctly, during the wake-up process it will just freeze with the bar 1/4th of the way accross the screen.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by acimmarusti on 2009-05-06
Ok, glad to hear it's working. You should post your issue about hibernate and suspend in another thread. But before posting, search the forums, as this is a fairly common situation.

Cheers

---

