---
title: "11.10 Lost All GUI Desktops"
date: 2012-02-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LinGNUbie on 2012-02-15
I have an issue with a PC where all the desktops (Gnome Shell, Classic, Unity (2d,3d)) have all failed to start. The usual GUI login screen functions and shows all choices, but after login none of the desktops will start, and each returns to login screen.

Before this appeared the machine was unable to run in Unity 3d, so Unity 2d was used mostly. I have tried to purge all shells and reinstall via command line to no avail.

I'm assuming I have missed something.

Any help?

---

### Post by Wayne_V on 2012-02-15
check the users .xsession-errors file and/or system logs (/var/log).  to see which files changed most recently:

cd /var/log
ls -altr

---

### Post by LinGNUbie on 2012-02-15
Thanks for the tip.

Nothing unusual shows, logs say it loads fine.

Checked and there is no xorg.conf so nothing related there for displays.

---

### Post by Bobhuber on 2012-02-15
> **LinGNUbie said:**
> I have an issue with a PC where all the desktops (Gnome Shell, Classic, Unity (2d,3d)) have all failed to start. The usual GUI login screen functions and shows all choices, but after login none of the desktops will start, and each returns to login screen.

Before this appeared the machine was unable to run in Unity 3d, so Unity 2d was used mostly. I have tried to purge all shells and reinstall via command line to no avail.

I'm assuming I have missed something.

Any help?
I've seen the same thing with updated video drivers screwing up. Mabe a place to start would be to reinstall your video drivers.

---

### Post by LinGNUbie on 2012-02-15
Thanks for the suggestions, decided to usb install 11.10 again.

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2012-02-15
"Checked and there is no xorg.conf so nothing related there for displays."

There's your problem right there. There has to be an Xorg.conf, it's how xorg works with the display driver. I'd look for it again.
It might be falling back to login for lack of resolution choices (normally held in xorg.conf).
Reinstalling the display driver should recreate this file. Try loging in to a fallback session if you can.

What is make and model of the display adapter?

If you don't know: do lspci in terminal and post back.

P.S. in standard ubuntu system xorg.conf might be located in etc/X11/xorgconf.d.

---

### Post by LinGNUbie on 2012-02-19
I knew make/model, had it all setup with defaults, and then upon a reboot one day the desktop would not appear after login, no matter which desktop type was chosen.

nothing had been changed in /etc/X11/<anywhere>.

As system was new(ish) decided upon total reconfig by USB 11.10 installation, has been working fine since with Unity 2d & 3d,  as well as Gnome Shell. Initial installation was an upgrade from previous version, so there might have been something with that.

---

