---
title: "Too Many Kernel Options at GRUB Screen"
date: 2009-08-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Devi 710 on 2009-08-18
Hello all,

I believe since maybe version 7.10 every time the kernel is updated it adds another option to my GRUB Screen at boot up.

Like:
kernel 2.6.28-15-generic
kernel 2.6.28-14-generic
kernel 2.6.28-13-generic
kernel 2.6.28-11-generic

And so on. As I tend to keep my OS for some time (I don't like updates, just fresh installs, so I do it less frequently) my boot menu gets larger and larger. Anyway to remove the other options from my GRUB screen??

Screenshot of my Start-up Manager:

[IMG]http://dl.getdropbox.com/u/1483214/Linux/Boot_Options.jpg[/IMG]

Any ideas?

Thanks,

Devi

---

### Post by nhanquy on 2009-08-19
Edit[SIZE=3] [/SIZE][SIZE=3]**/boot/grub/menu.lst**[/SIZE] to delete unwanted items.
Also as root, delete those files under[SIZE=3]** /boot** [/SIZE]to have more space.

---

### Post by Devi 710 on 2009-08-19
Thanks for the quick response. I'll edit the menu.lst file. I am a little nervous to delete the extra files in /boot/ folder though.

I'll post the results.

---

### Post by Devi 710 on 2009-08-19
That worked great! Thanks

I'll mark it as Solved.

---

### Post by Bonster on 2009-08-19
might want to remove the old kernels if u no longer use it. Synaptic > search  linux-image-2

---

### Post by Barafu Albino Cheetah on 2009-08-19
If you edit menu.lst these kernls will soon be back, as thier list is autogenerated. You should remove packages with old kernels, using apt-get. Don't forget to provide version numbers. run ```
update-grub
``` afterwards.

---

### Post by Devi 710 on 2009-08-19
I removed the older kernels using Synaptic (was just under 300mb, much bigger than I thought). I was presented with a drop down menu for each removal, so I didn't use the "update-grub" command.

For future reference, a screenshot:

[IMG]http://dl.getdropbox.com/u/1483214/Linux/kernel_dropdown2.jpg[/IMG]

Thanks for all the help,

Devi

---

