---
title: "[12.10] I want to create a hardlinked directory loop."
date: 2012-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aaammmsterdddam on 2012-12-03
I know that this is a bad idea, and  also know what consequences that are to be expected.
Now, that won't stop me.

I know that the ext4 system has support for hardlinking, and I also know that ```
sudo ln -d a a/b/a
``` is disabled for security purposes since one can create dangling directory trees and other nasty things, as I said I don't care.

I know that LDE technically has the capability of doing this, but I am primarily looking for a way to disable this protection completely.

If it is any use I am running Ubuntu 12.10 (which you *should* have noticed from the tag in the title) and kernel 3.6.1-030601-generic.

Please, serious answers only, this means I do not want anyone saying that it is impossible or anything equally silly.

---

### Post by aaammmsterdddam on 2012-12-07
*Bump*
I really want some insight on this!

---

### Post by aaammmsterdddam on 2012-12-14
*BUMP*
No seriously. I need help on this, anyone?
Pretty please?

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2012-12-14
Read about hardlink restrictions here ...

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Security/Features/Historical](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Security/Features/Historical)

> In Ubuntu 10.10 and later, hardlinks cannot be created to files that the user would be unable to read and write originally, or are otherwise sensitive. The behavior is controllable through the /proc/sys/kernel/yama/protected_nonaccess_hardlinks sysctl, available via Yama. 

---

### Post by aaammmsterdddam on 2013-01-17
Yama, eh?
Thanks for the reply, it is much appreciated!

---

