---
title: "9.04 Remix Installation Question"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Paul Baumann on 2009-04-24
I have 9.04 Remix running fine in Live Mode on my Acer Aspire One using a thumb drive.
I would like to install it on the computer but I do not want to overwrite Windows.
Does the Installation allow setting partitions and partition size during installation?
Paul

---

### Post by jsowoc on 2009-04-24
You have two options, both of which allow you to have both Windows and Ubuntu. They are:

1. From within Windows, you can select "install within Windows" on the USB autorun, and install through "Wubi". You choose how much room to allocate to Ubuntu (minimum 4GB, I suggest minimum 6GB), then at each startup Windows will ask you if you want to start Windows XP or Ubuntu. At a later date you can easily remove Ubuntu from the Add/Remove programs list.

2. From within a the live usb, you select to install. At one of the steps, you will have the option of "resizing" the Windows portion and installing Ubuntu on the unused space. As above, the minimum you can give Ubuntu is 4 GB (I suggest minimum 6 GB). This will (by default) overwrite the Windows boot manager with grub, and grub will let you choose between Ubuntu and Windows at each startup. At a later date, you can easily remove Windows by overwriting the partition with your new data.

#2 will run slightly faster (in theory, at least), but the only difference is which one controls the "booting", and therefore can not be painlessly uninstalled at a later date.

---

### Post by Paul Baumann on 2009-04-24
Thanks for the reply.
Now I'm wondering which way to go?
I have Win98 and 8.04LTS installed on my desktop using Grub and it works fine.
Paul

---

