---
title: "11.10 no GUI only Terminal"
date: 2012-01-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nickos on 2012-01-07
I upgraded from ubuntu 10.04 to 10.10.I found that gtk 2.0 was still installed along with 3.0.so decided to remove gtk 2.0 and stick with 3.0 from synaptic and found out that when i rebooted only a terminal could be shown!It looks like it removed the entire GTK!How can i get back to the GUI???I have very very valuable information and data in my computer and dont want to loose them..

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-01-07
You could possibly use your live cd and then chroot to the installed system and reinstall your lost packages

---

### Post by nickos on 2012-01-07
sorry no live cd or usb.Its just an upgrade.I tried to install unity and libgtk 2.0 and still terminal only...............................hate you canonical

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2012-01-07
sudo apt-get install gtk2-engines

And for very very important files:

[http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=backup&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9](http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=backup&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9)

---

### Post by nickos on 2012-01-07
for god sake jesus christ and holy mary the option recovery mode was selected i selected ubuntu and it is ok but now the graphics look like i am using the first version of ubuntu or something like windows 95 and there are no close/minimize window buttons

---

### Post by nickos on 2012-01-07
here is what i mean with windows 95 graphics,.....i cant do anything

edit:i also have no internet connection,it keeps saying disconnected...

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-01-07
Try reinstalling the package ubuntu-desktop.

That should force it to reinstall pretty much everything that it needs to display your desktop.

---

### Post by Crisopa on 2012-01-09
I have the same exact problem, but with Lubuntu: i downloaded a live .iso, tested it on a VM and it ran fine; then i burned it, but when i tried to boot it (tried VM, several laptops and desktops too), it booted, but didn't want to show me the desktop. I got past the language settings screen, then when i hit enter to run it live it shows the loading dots and then the terminal... Any help?
 
[IMG]http://i40.tinypic.com/2eowftg.png[/IMG]
 
Image was burned at 8x (couldn't choose lower).

---

### Post by pr3zident on 2012-01-09
> **Crisopa said:**
> I have the same exact problem, but with Lubuntu: i downloaded a live .iso, tested it on a VM and it ran fine; then i burned it, but when i tried to boot it (tried VM, several laptops and desktops too), it booted, but didn't want to show me the desktop. I got past the language settings screen, then when i hit enter to run it live it shows the loading dots and then the terminal... Any help?
 
[IMG]http://i40.tinypic.com/2eowftg.png[/IMG]
 
Image was burned at 8x (couldn't choose lower).

Try running this in the terminal and see if it gives yu gui
 ```
startx
```

---

### Post by Crisopa on 2012-01-10
[SIZE=4]^ [/SIZE]Worked like a charm, thank you.

---

### Post by pr3zident on 2012-01-10
> **Crisopa said:**
> [SIZE=4]^ [/SIZE]Worked like a charm, thank you.

No problem ...

---

