---
title: "12.04 Problems with wine"
date: 2012-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by unsuper on 2012-11-17
I've downloaded the livestream procaster and installed it, but wine doesn't seem to be letting me open it
I see the blinking icon in the app tab and it just goes away

This is the same story when trying to install a game

Note this is my first experience with wine. Any advice?

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-11-17
Not all Windows programs work on Wine. If you want to know if a particular program works under Wine or not, and what could you do to improve the performance, then do a search on [AppDB](http://appdb.winehq.org/)

---

### Post by unsuper on 2012-11-17
> **zombifier25 said:**
> Not all Windows programs work on Wine. If you want to know if a particular program works under Wine or not, and what could you do to improve the performance, then do a search on [AppDB]("http://appdb.winehq.org/")
It works with wine according to the site

What is going wrong

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-11-17
From the site:
> 
To get Livestream Procaster running a few native dll overrides are required, 
Now use winetricks to install the required overrides

```
winetricks vcrun2008 wininet
```

Also, ksproxy.ax and ksuser.dll are required and they can be downloaded and installed using

```
wget http://download.microsoft.com/download/E/E/1/EE17FF74-6C45-4575-9CF4-7FC2597ACD18/directx_feb2010_redist.exe
cabextract directx_feb2010_redist.exe dxnt.cab
cabextract dxnt.cab -F ksuser.dll
cabextract dxnt.cab -F ksproxy.ax
mv ksuser.dll ksproxy.ax $WINEPREFIX/drive_c/windows/system32/ 
```


Just copy and paste the commands into the terminal. I'm not positive that it wil work though.

---

### Post by dmac1blah on 2012-11-18
> **zombifier25 said:**
> From the site:


Just copy and paste the commands into the terminal. I'm not positive that it wil work though.

Same issue here kind of anyway but getting bonjour error with a ref to [www.inmethod.com/air-video](www.inmethod.com/air-video) and well after following the uninstall/reinstall instructions this user is without luck... Same error! errr

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-11-18
> **unsuper said:**
> It works with wine according to the site

NOT -- if you're running the latest version.  A Bronze rating is the LOWEST rating an app can get that actually installs.  It means basically that very little actually works.

---

