---
title: "10.04 Weather Update applet: cannot update weather data"
date: 2011-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by markMDW on 2011-11-23
10.04 Xubuntu's 'Weather Update' panel applet keeps saying 'Cannot update weather data' on both a desktop and laptop with the same version of Xubuntu.   It use to work on the laptop.  The Desktop has just been configured with Xubuntu.  By the way, A machine with Ubuntu 10.04 has a different weather panel applet that does work.

I've tried changing the cities, refreshing, and changing back again like another tread I found on this subject suggested,  but none of the cities I pick show any weather data and this isn't isolated to one specific city, for instance New York City (as the other thread mentioned).  

When I right-click on the Xubuntu weather panel applet to execute it, it says "Observation station located in - " (no city is shown as expected).  When I right-click and select Properties to configure the applet again it shows the City I had previsously selected, but that city never gets updated into the properties of the actual weather applet as it runs.

based on this it appears the configuration dialog box just isn't loading the settings into the applet so that it can read the data from the internet. 

I figure this is a new bug since the applet use to work on the laptop
Thanks for any advice

---

### Post by azertyh on 2011-11-23
hello,
it's a bug. the workaround is given here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1875487&highlight=weather+applet+xfce](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1875487&highlight=weather+applet+xfce)

---

### Post by markMDW on 2011-11-23
Thanks  for the link, somehow I missed that tread.. I'm goint to patiently wait for the update fix :popcorn:

---

### Post by KBD47 on 2011-11-23
I removed the weather applet and installed indicator-weather from synaptic package manager and have my weather back again on Xubuntu 11.10.
KBD47

---

### Post by markMDW on 2011-11-24
I couldn't find indicator-weather from the synaptic package manager within my 10.04 installation.  It must be something new for 11.10.  Another alternative turns out to be loading the 'Docky' panel program from Ubuntu Software Center [accessories section], and then activating it's own Weather applet from the 'Docklets' tab of dockey configuration box.  Thanks for pointing the way to finding alternatives!:D

---

### Post by azertyh on 2011-11-27
> **KBD47 said:**
> I removed the weather applet and installed indicator-weather from synaptic package manager and have my weather back again on Xubuntu 11.10.
KBD47

the indicator-weather is another applet but the xfce applet is better.

---

