---
title: "10.04 Won't Boot"
date: 2010-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pvtryan on 2010-05-23
When I choose to boot Ubuntu (10.04) from Grub, it doesn't even go so  far as to give me a splash screen. Rather it gives me what I have dubbed  "color tearing" at the top of the screen on a black background, and  hangs. 

It does the same thing without "quiet" when booting. When  booting in recovery mode, it is the same except the color thing at the  top isn't colored, it's gray.

 It was working fine until  recently, when I removed that hard drive (the one with Ubuntu) and put  in another for 2 days. Then I put the old one (with Ubuntu) back and  Ubuntu wouldn't start. Windows 7 (different hard drive), also in Grub,  boots fine. The hard drive is in the same place with the same cables as  before (it's going to the same SATA slot, master).

To be more  descriptive of the color tearing, there are a bunch of angled, mostly  green/blue lines at the top of the screen with flecks of purple. 

I  just remembered that I changed the cable going from my video card to my  monitor (GFX card has 2 sockets for monitors). I don't think that  matters, but you guys are the experts.

Thanks.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-23
You might try to add nomodset to the end of the kernel line at the grub login to see if it gets in and you can check the graphic card drivers.

---

### Post by pvtryan on 2010-05-24
That worked. It still had the color tearing thing but it did go to the login screen in a few seconds. Everything was fine after that. 

It installed some updates, we'll see if that fixes it. IF not, I'll just edit grub to always have nodmodset. Thanks.

Edit: Oh and the drivers were up to date.

---

