---
title: "Issues With Video Capture And Configuration Using Motion"
date: 2009-10-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-08
Hi all.

I recently have been trying to put together a video surveillance system. I tried Zoneminder first but I had some issues to it that are making me try other things. Next on my list is Motion. Right now when I run Motion it just immediately starts taking pictures, regardless of if there is motion or not. I also can't get it to take video it just saves a giant load of images and doesn't save them where I specified in the configuration file. It does take the images in good quality however so I know that the camera is working correctly; it also works correctly with XawTV. The camera is a Logitech Quickcam for now and it is attached directly by USB. Please just ask for whatever parts of the configuration file you need to see because the file is so large I don't want to copy the whole thing into here.

Thanks in advance for anyone's help.

(This is being done on Ubuntu Jaunty)

---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-08
Well one problem was really stupid. I had to use sudo in order to make it have permission to use the configuration file that I wanted it to. That part is solved. Now I get this error:

```

[1] Codec not found: Invalid argument
[1] ffopen_open error creating (new) file [/tmp/motion/01-20091007144921.avi]: Invalid argument
[1] File of type 1 saved to: /tmp/motion/01-20091007144921-01.jpg
[0] httpd - Finishing
[0] httpd Closing

```

If anyone has ever seen that before and knows what codec it could be talking about or anything of the sort, please help. Thanks! I'll keep trying to find a solution.

---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-08
And I also have this error that I could not find anything useful about but it looks like it could be important:

```

[1] VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP not supported but it should be (does your webcam driver support this ioctl?)

```

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-10-08
Motion looks for a configuration file in ~/.motion/motion.conf - possibly motion is not finding your configuration file, or there is another in the current directory.

Make sure you set ffmpeg_video_codec (try mpeg4) and snapshot_interval (0 is disabled). Motion seems to be cleverly defaulting to still images if the video codec is missing.

Set target_dir to an absolute path. Choose a name (without an extension) for snapshot_filename, jpeg_filename and movie_filename.

Include your motion.conf as an attachment if you like.

---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-09
When I run motion from the command line it says that it found the configuration file motion.conf, I will post the configuration file on here in a few minutes, gotta go to that machine. Thanks for the reply.

---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-09
Here is motion.conf, I am currently only using one camera so I'm just using this configuration file instead of threading.

```

# This config file was generated by motion 3.2.11


############################################################
# Daemon
############################################################

# Start in daemon (background) mode and release terminal (default: off)
daemon off

# File to store the process ID, also called pid file. (default: not defined)
process_id_file /var/run/motion/motion.pid 

############################################################
# Basic Setup Mode
############################################################

# Start in Setup-Mode, daemon disabled. (default: off)
setup_mode off

###########################################################
# Capture device options
############################################################

# Videodevice to be used for capturing  (default /dev/video0)
# for FreeBSD default is /dev/bktr0
videodevice /dev/video0

# v4l2_palette allows to choose preferable palette to be use by motion
# to capture from those supported by your videodevice. (default: 8)
# E.g. if your videodevice supports both V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR8 and
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_MJPEG then motion will by default use V4L2_PIX_FMT_MJPEG.
# Setting v4l2_palette to 1 forces motion to use V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR8
# instead.
#
# Values :
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_SN9C10X : 0  'S910'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR8  : 1  'BA81'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_MJPEG   : 2  'MJPEG'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_JPEG    : 3  'JPEG'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_RGB24   : 4  'RGB3'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_UYVY    : 5  'UYVY'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_YUYV    : 6  'YUYV'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_YUV422P : 7  '422P'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_YUV420  : 8  'YU12'
v4l2_palette 8

# Tuner device to be used for capturing using tuner as source (default /dev/tuner0)
# This is ONLY used for FreeBSD. Leave it commented out for Linux
; tunerdevice /dev/tuner0

# The video input to be used (default: 8)
# Should normally be set to 0 or 1 for video/TV cards, and 8 for USB cameras
input 8

# The video norm to use (only for video capture and TV tuner cards)
# Values: 0 (PAL), 1 (NTSC), 2 (SECAM), 3 (PAL NC no colour). Default: 0 (PAL)
norm 0

# The frequency to set the tuner to (kHz) (only for TV tuner cards) (default: 0)
frequency 0

# Rotate image this number of degrees. The rotation affects all saved images as
# well as mpeg movies. Valid values: 0 (default = no rotation), 90, 180 and 270.
rotate 0

# Image width (pixels). Valid range: Camera dependent, default: 352
width 320

# Image height (pixels). Valid range: Camera dependent, default: 288
height 240

# Maximum number of frames to be captured per second.
# Valid range: 2-100. Default: 100 (almost no limit).
framerate 2

# Minimum time in seconds between capturing picture frames from the camera.
# Default: 0 = disabled - the capture rate is given by the camera framerate.
# This option is used when you want to capture images at a rate lower than 2 per second.
minimum_frame_time 0

# URL to use if you are using a network camera, size will be autodetected (incl http:// ftp:// or file:///)
# Must be a URL that returns single jpeg pictures or a raw mjpeg stream. Default: Not defined
; netcam_url value

# Username and password for network camera (only if required). Default: not defined
# Syntax is user:password
; netcam_userpass value

# The setting for keep-alive of network socket, should improve performance on compatible net cameras.
# 1.0:         The historical implementation using HTTP/1.0, closing the socket after each http request.
# keep_alive:  Use HTTP/1.0 requests with keep alive header to reuse the same connection.
# 1.1:         Use HTTP/1.1 requests that support keep alive as default.
# Default: 1.0
; netcam_http 1.0

# URL to use for a netcam proxy server, if required, e.g. "http://myproxy".
# If a port number other than 80 is needed, use "http://myproxy:1234".
# Default: not defined
; netcam_proxy value 

# Set less strict jpeg checks for network cameras with a poor/buggy firmware.
# Default: off
netcam_tolerant_check off

# Let motion regulate the brightness of a video device (default: off).
# The auto_brightness feature uses the brightness option as its target value.
# If brightness is zero auto_brightness will adjust to average brightness value 128.
# Only recommended for cameras without auto brightness
auto_brightness off

# Set the initial brightness of a video device.
# If auto_brightness is enabled, this value defines the average brightness level
# which Motion will try and adjust to.
# Valid range 0-255, default 0 = disabled
brightness 0

# Set the contrast of a video device.
# Valid range 0-255, default 0 = disabled
contrast 0

# Set the saturation of a video device.
# Valid range 0-255, default 0 = disabled
saturation 0

# Set the hue of a video device (NTSC feature).
# Valid range 0-255, default 0 = disabled
hue 0


############################################################
# Round Robin (multiple inputs on same video device name)
############################################################

# Number of frames to capture in each roundrobin step (default: 1)
roundrobin_frames 1

# Number of frames to skip before each roundrobin step (default: 1)
roundrobin_skip 1

# Try to filter out noise generated by roundrobin (default: off)
switchfilter off


############################################################
# Motion Detection Settings:
############################################################

# Threshold for number of changed pixels in an image that
# triggers motion detection (default: 1500)
threshold 1500

# Automatically tune the threshold down if possible (default: off)
threshold_tune off

# Noise threshold for the motion detection (default: 32)
noise_level 32

# Automatically tune the noise threshold (default: on)
noise_tune on

# Despeckle motion image using (e)rode or (d)ilate or (l)abel (Default: not defined)
# Recommended value is EedDl. Any combination (and number of) of E, e, d, and D is valid.
# (l)abeling must only be used once and the 'l' must be the last letter.
# Comment out to disable
despeckle EedDl

# Detect motion in predefined areas (1 - 9). Areas are numbered like that:  1 2 3
# A script (on_area_detected) is started immediately when motion is         4 5 6
# detected in one of the given areas, but only once during an event.        7 8 9
# One or more areas can be specified with this option. (Default: not defined)
; area_detect value

# PGM file to use as a sensitivity mask.
# Full path name to. (Default: not defined)
; mask_file value

# Dynamically create a mask file during operation (default: 0)
# Adjust speed of mask changes from 0 (off) to 10 (fast)
smart_mask_speed 0

# Ignore sudden massive light intensity changes given as a percentage of the picture
# area that changed intensity. Valid range: 0 - 100 , default: 0 = disabled
lightswitch 0

# Picture frames must contain motion at least the specified number of frames
# in a row before they are detected as true motion. At the default of 1, all
# motion is detected. Valid range: 1 to thousands, recommended 1-5
minimum_motion_frames 1

# Specifies the number of pre-captured (buffered) pictures from before motion
# was detected that will be output at motion detection.
# Recommended range: 0 to 5 (default: 0)
# Do not use large values! Large values will cause Motion to skip video frames and
# cause unsmooth mpegs. To smooth mpegs use larger values of post_capture instead.
pre_capture 0

# Number of frames to capture after motion is no longer detected (default: 0)
post_capture 0

# Gap is the seconds of no motion detection that triggers the end of an event
# An event is defined as a series of motion images taken within a short timeframe.
# Recommended value is 60 seconds (Default). The value 0 is allowed and disables
# events causing all Motion to be written to one single mpeg file and no pre_capture.
gap 60

# Maximum length in seconds of an mpeg movie
# When value is exceeded a new mpeg file is created. (Default: 0 = infinite)
max_mpeg_time 0

# Always save images even if there was no motion (default: off)
output_all off


############################################################
# Image File Output
############################################################

# Output 'normal' pictures when motion is detected (default: on)
# Valid values: on, off, first, best, center
# When set to 'first', only the first picture of an event is saved.
# Picture with most motion of an event is saved when set to 'best'.
# Picture with motion nearest center of picture is saved when set to 'center'.
# Can be used as preview shot for the corresponding movie.
output_normal on

# Output pictures with only the pixels moving object (ghost images) (default: off)
output_motion off

# The quality (in percent) to be used by the jpeg compression (default: 75)
quality 75

# Output ppm images instead of jpeg (default: off)
ppm off


############################################################
# FFMPEG related options
# Film (mpeg) file output, and deinterlacing of the video input
# The options movie_filename and timelapse_filename are also used
# by the ffmpeg feature
############################################################

# Use ffmpeg to encode mpeg movies in realtime (default: off)
ffmpeg_cap_new on

# Use ffmpeg to make movies with only the pixels moving
# object (ghost images) (default: off)
ffmpeg_cap_motion off

# Use ffmpeg to encode a timelapse movie 
# Default value 0 = off - else save frame every Nth second
ffmpeg_timelapse 0

# The file rollover mode of the timelapse video
# Valid values: hourly, daily (default), weekly-sunday, weekly-monday, monthly, manual
ffmpeg_timelapse_mode daily

# Bitrate to be used by the ffmpeg encoder (default: 400000)
# This option is ignored if ffmpeg_variable_bitrate is not 0 (disabled)
ffmpeg_bps 500000

# Enables and defines variable bitrate for the ffmpeg encoder.
# ffmpeg_bps is ignored if variable bitrate is enabled.
# Valid values: 0 (default) = fixed bitrate defined by ffmpeg_bps,
# or the range 2 - 31 where 2 means best quality and 31 is worst.
ffmpeg_variable_bitrate 0

# Codec to used by ffmpeg for the video compression.
# Timelapse mpegs are always made in mpeg1 format independent from this option.
# Supported formats are: mpeg1 (ffmpeg-0.4.8 only), mpeg4 (default), and msmpeg4.
# mpeg1 - gives you files with extension .mpg
# mpeg4 or msmpeg4 - gives you files with extension .avi
# msmpeg4 is recommended for use with Windows Media Player because
# it requires no installation of codec on the Windows client.
# swf - gives you a flash film with extension .swf
# flv - gives you a flash video with extension .flv
# ffv1 - FF video codec 1 for Lossless Encoding ( experimental )
# mov - QuickTime ( testing )
ffmpeg_video_codec msmpeg4

# Use ffmpeg to deinterlace video. Necessary if you use an analog camera
# and see horizontal combing on moving objects in video or pictures.
# (default: off)
ffmpeg_deinterlace off


############################################################
# Snapshots (Traditional Periodic Webcam File Output)
############################################################

# Make automated snapshot every N seconds (default: 0 = disabled)
snapshot_interval 0


############################################################
# Text Display
# %Y = year, %m = month, %d = date,
# %H = hour, %M = minute, %S = second, %T = HH:MM:SS,
# %v = event, %q = frame number, %t = thread (camera) number,
# %D = changed pixels, %N = noise level, \n = new line,
# %i and %J = width and height of motion area,
# %K and %L = X and Y coordinates of motion center
# %C = value defined by text_event - do not use with text_event!
# You can put quotation marks around the text to allow
# leading spaces
############################################################

# Locate and draw a box around the moving object.
# Valid values: on, off and preview (default: off)
# Set to 'preview' will only draw a box in preview_shot pictures.
locate off

# Draws the timestamp using same options as C function strftime(3)
# Default: %Y-%m-%d\n%T = date in ISO format and time in 24 hour clock
# Text is placed in lower right corner
text_right %Y-%m-%d\n%T-%q

# Draw a user defined text on the images using same options as C function strftime(3)
# Default: Not defined = no text
# Text is placed in lower left corner
; text_left CAMERA %t

# Draw the number of changed pixed on the images (default: off)
# Will normally be set to off except when you setup and adjust the motion settings
# Text is placed in upper right corner
text_changes off

# This option defines the value of the special event conversion specifier %C
# You can use any conversion specifier in this option except %C. Date and time
# values are from the timestamp of the first image in the current event.
# Default: %Y%m%d%H%M%S
# The idea is that %C can be used filenames and text_left/right for creating
# a unique identifier for each event.
text_event %Y%m%d%H%M%S

# Draw characters at twice normal size on images. (default: off)
text_double off


############################################################
# Target Directories and filenames For Images And Films
# For the options snapshot_, jpeg_, mpeg_ and timelapse_filename
# you can use conversion specifiers
# %Y = year, %m = month, %d = date,
# %H = hour, %M = minute, %S = second,
# %v = event, %q = frame number, %t = thread (camera) number,
# %D = changed pixels, %N = noise level,
# %i and %J = width and height of motion area,
# %K and %L = X and Y coordinates of motion center
# %C = value defined by text_event
# Quotation marks round string are allowed.
############################################################

# Target base directory for pictures and films
# Recommended to use absolute path. (Default: current working directory)
target_dir /tmp/motion

# File path for snapshots (jpeg or ppm) relative to target_dir
# Default: %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-snapshot
# Default value is equivalent to legacy oldlayout option
# For Motion 3.0 compatible mode choose: %Y/%m/%d/%H/%M/%S-snapshot
# File extension .jpg or .ppm is automatically added so do not include this.
# Note: A symbolic link called lastsnap.jpg created in the target_dir will always
# point to the latest snapshot, unless snapshot_filename is exactly 'lastsnap'
snapshot_filename %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-snapshot

# File path for motion triggered images (jpeg or ppm) relative to target_dir
# Default: %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-%q
# Default value is equivalent to legacy oldlayout option
# For Motion 3.0 compatible mode choose: %Y/%m/%d/%H/%M/%S-%q
# File extension .jpg or .ppm is automatically added so do not include this
# Set to 'preview' together with best-preview feature enables special naming
# convention for preview shots. See motion guide for details
jpeg_filename %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-%q

# File path for motion triggered ffmpeg films (mpeg) relative to target_dir
# Default: %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S
# Default value is equivalent to legacy oldlayout option
# For Motion 3.0 compatible mode choose: %Y/%m/%d/%H%M%S
# File extension .mpg or .avi is automatically added so do not include this
# This option was previously called ffmpeg_filename
movie_filename %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S

# File path for timelapse mpegs relative to target_dir
# Default: %Y%m%d-timelapse
# Default value is near equivalent to legacy oldlayout option
# For Motion 3.0 compatible mode choose: %Y/%m/%d-timelapse
# File extension .mpg is automatically added so do not include this
timelapse_filename %Y%m%d-timelapse


############################################################
# Live Webcam Server
############################################################

# The mini-http server listens to this port for requests (default: 0 = disabled)
webcam_port 8081

# Quality of the jpeg images produced (default: 50)
webcam_quality 50

# Output frames at 1 fps when no motion is detected and increase to the
# rate given by webcam_maxrate when motion is detected (default: off)
webcam_motion off

# Maximum framerate for webcam streams (default: 1)
webcam_maxrate 1

# Restrict webcam connections to localhost only (default: on)
webcam_localhost on

# Limits the number of images per connection (default: 0 = unlimited)
# Number can be defined by multiplying actual webcam rate by desired number of seconds
# Actual webcam rate is the smallest of the numbers framerate and webcam_maxrate
webcam_limit 0


############################################################
# HTTP Based Control
############################################################

# TCP/IP port for the http server to listen on (default: 0 = disabled)
control_port 8080

# Restrict control connections to localhost only (default: on)
control_localhost on

# Output for http server, select off to choose raw text plain (default: on)
control_html_output on

# Authentication for the http based control. Syntax username:password
# Default: not defined (Disabled)
; control_authentication username:password


############################################################
# Tracking (Pan/Tilt)
############################################################

# Type of tracker (0=none (default), 1=stepper, 2=iomojo, 3=pwc, 4=generic, 5=uvcvideo)
# The generic type enables the definition of motion center and motion size to
# be used with the conversion specifiers for options like on_motion_detected
track_type 0

# Enable auto tracking (default: off)
track_auto off

# Serial port of motor (default: none)
; track_port value

# Motor number for x-axis (default: 0)
track_motorx 0

# Motor number for y-axis (default: 0)
track_motory 0

# Maximum value on x-axis (default: 0)
track_maxx 0

# Maximum value on y-axis (default: 0)
track_maxy 0

# ID of an iomojo camera if used (default: 0)
track_iomojo_id 0

# Angle in degrees the camera moves per step on the X-axis
# with auto-track (default: 10)
# Currently only used with pwc type cameras
track_step_angle_x 10

# Angle in degrees the camera moves per step on the Y-axis
# with auto-track (default: 10)
# Currently only used with pwc type cameras
track_step_angle_y 10

# Delay to wait for after tracking movement as number
# of picture frames (default: 10)
track_move_wait 10

# Speed to set the motor to (stepper motor option) (default: 255)
track_speed 255

# Number of steps to make (stepper motor option) (default: 40)
track_stepsize 40


############################################################
# External Commands, Warnings and Logging:
# You can use conversion specifiers for the on_xxxx commands
# %Y = year, %m = month, %d = date,
# %H = hour, %M = minute, %S = second,
# %v = event, %q = frame number, %t = thread (camera) number,
# %D = changed pixels, %N = noise level,
# %i and %J = width and height of motion area,
# %K and %L = X and Y coordinates of motion center
# %C = value defined by text_event
# %f = filename with full path
# %n = number indicating filetype
# Both %f and %n are only defined for on_picture_save,
# on_movie_start and on_movie_end
# Quotation marks round string are allowed.
############################################################

# Do not sound beeps when detecting motion (default: on)
# Note: Motion never beeps when running in daemon mode.
quiet on

# Command to be executed when an event starts. (default: none)
# An event starts at first motion detected after a period of no motion defined by gap 
; on_event_start value

# Command to be executed when an event ends after a period of no motion
# (default: none). The period of no motion is defined by option gap.
; on_event_end value

# Command to be executed when a picture (.ppm|.jpg) is saved (default: none)
# To give the filename as an argument to a command append it with %f
; on_picture_save value

# Command to be executed when a motion frame is detected (default: none)
; on_motion_detected value

# Command to be executed when motion in a predefined area is detected
# Check option 'area_detect'.   (default: none)
; on_area_detected value

# Command to be executed when a movie file (.mpg|.avi) is created. (default: none)
# To give the filename as an argument to a command append it with %f
; on_movie_start value

# Command to be executed when a movie file (.mpg|.avi) is closed. (default: none)
# To give the filename as an argument to a command append it with %f
; on_movie_end value

# Command to be executed when a camera can't be opened or if it is lost
# NOTE: There is situations when motion doesn't detect a lost camera!
# It depends on the driver, some drivers don't detect a lost camera at all
# Some hang the motion thread. Some even hang the PC! (default: none)
; on_camera_lost value

############################################################
# Common Options For MySQL and PostgreSQL database features.
# Options require the MySQL/PostgreSQL options to be active also.
############################################################

# Log to the database when creating motion triggered image file  (default: on)
sql_log_image on

# Log to the database when creating a snapshot image file (default: on)
sql_log_snapshot on

# Log to the database when creating motion triggered mpeg file (default: off)
sql_log_mpeg off

# Log to the database when creating timelapse mpeg file (default: off)
sql_log_timelapse off

# SQL query string that is sent to the database
# Use same conversion specifiers has for text features
# Additional special conversion specifiers are
# %n = the number representing the file_type
# %f = filename with full path
# Default value:
# insert into security(camera, filename, frame, file_type, time_stamp, text_event) values('%t', '%f', '%q', '%n', '%Y-%m-%d %T', '%C')
sql_query insert into security(camera, filename, frame, file_type, time_stamp, event_time_stamp) values('%t', '%f', '%q', '%n', '%Y-%m-%d %T', '%C')


############################################################
# Database Options For MySQL
############################################################

# Mysql database to log to (default: not defined)
; mysql_db value

# The host on which the database is located (default: localhost)
; mysql_host value

# User account name for MySQL database (default: not defined)
; mysql_user value

# User password for MySQL database (default: not defined)
; mysql_password value


############################################################
# Database Options For PostgreSQL
############################################################

# PostgreSQL database to log to (default: not defined)
; pgsql_db value

# The host on which the database is located (default: localhost)
; pgsql_host value

# User account name for PostgreSQL database (default: not defined)
; pgsql_user value

# User password for PostgreSQL database (default: not defined)
; pgsql_password value

# Port on which the PostgreSQL database is located (default: 5432)
; pgsql_port 5432


############################################################
# Video Loopback Device (vloopback project)
############################################################

# Output images to a video4linux loopback device
# The value '-' means next available (default: not defined)
; video_pipe value

# Output motion images to a video4linux loopback device
# The value '-' means next available (default: not defined)
; motion_video_pipe value


##############################################################
# Thread config files - One for each camera.
# Except if only one camera - You only need this config file.
# If you have more than one camera you MUST define one thread
# config file for each camera in addition to this config file.
##############################################################

# Remember: If you have more than one camera you must have one
# thread file for each camera. E.g. 2 cameras requires 3 files:
# This motion.conf file AND thread1.conf and thread2.conf.
# Only put the options that are unique to each camera in the
# thread config files. 
; thread /usr/local/etc/thread1.conf
; thread /usr/local/etc/thread2.conf
; thread /usr/local/etc/thread3.conf
; thread /usr/local/etc/thread4.conf

output_all off
output_normal on
output_motion off

```

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-10-09
Scanning through this, in the order they appear in the file, you are trying to use **ffmpeg_video_codec msmpeg4** and maybe you should use another codec that is definitely available in your system, e.g. mpeg4.

You should end up with an avi file in /tmp/motion with a name based on %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S.

You have enabled **webcam_port 8081** and it would be better to set this to 0 (disabled) until the main setup is complete.

You have **output_all off** and setting this back on would guarantee that images are saved.

---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-09
> **StuartN said:**
> Scanning through this, in the order they appear in the file, you are trying to use **ffmpeg_video_codec msmpeg4** and maybe you should use another codec that is definitely available in your system, e.g. mpeg4.

You should end up with an avi file in /tmp/motion with a name based on %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S.

You have enabled **webcam_port 8081** and it would be better to set this to 0 (disabled) until the main setup is complete.

You have **output_all off** and setting this back on would guarantee that images are saved.

I just tried these suggestions still not getting any video. This is depressing.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-10-09
> **zdunham said:**
> it just saves a giant load of images and doesn't save them where I specified in the configuration file.

Just a guess, but if it is still the case that motion is not saving images in the location that you specified in your motion.conf file, then motion is not reading your motion.conf file at all.

You can **motion -c ~/.motion/motion.conf** to force a particular conf file to be used.

Also, why not switch on the snapshot and check at least that snapshots are created as and where you want them.

---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-09
> **StuartN said:**
> Just a guess, but if it is still the case that motion is not saving images in the location that you specified in your motion.conf file, then motion is not reading your motion.conf file at all.

You can **motion -c ~/.motion/motion.conf** to force a particular conf file to be used.

Also, why not switch on the snapshot and check at least that snapshots are created as and where you want them.

This is not still the case. The snapshots are created where I want them. This is going to sound really dumb, but the reason it wasn't reading motion.conf at first was because I was running motion without sudo and it did not have permission. It took me a little bit to realize that there was a permission denied error showing up. That is now gone and the pictures are in the right directory. Still no video though. Thanks again.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-10-09
> **zdunham said:**
> Still no video though. Thanks again.

I have run a diff on your and my .conf files and the only significant difference I can see is that you have **ffmpeg_video_codec msmpeg4** - in fact, all my ffmpeg options except **ffmpeg_cap_new on** are ;commented out.

I would certainly chown and chmod the .conf file to eliminate any permission problems, and not use sudo to run motion (for example, ~ means /root when running as super, and your paths and settings may not be known).

Failing that, do you have all the gstreamer good, bad and ugly components, ffmpeg plugins, etc to make video? Does ffmpeg run from the command line?

---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-12
> **StuartN said:**
> I have run a diff on your and my .conf files and the only significant difference I can see is that you have **ffmpeg_video_codec msmpeg4** - in fact, all my ffmpeg options except **ffmpeg_cap_new on** are ;commented out.

I would certainly chown and chmod the .conf file to eliminate any permission problems, and not use sudo to run motion (for example, ~ means /root when running as super, and your paths and settings may not be known).

Failing that, do you have all the gstreamer good, bad and ugly components, ffmpeg plugins, etc to make video? Does ffmpeg run from the command line?

I tried:

```

ffmpeg /dev/video0

```

and I got "unable to find a suitable output format for /dev/video0". I'm thinking that is a problem and I have no idea how to fix it. I have all of the gstreamer plugins and such and I believe I have all the ffmpeg plugins. I did everything else you said also with the permissions and conf file.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-10-12
> **zdunham said:**
> ```
ffmpeg /dev/video0
```

and I got "unable to find a suitable output format for /dev/video0".

Same for me, but that seems incomplete - it does not specify video for linux. I know that this saves an AVI (webcam.avi) in the current directory, but I do not know what all the options are:

```
ffmpeg -f oss -ac 2 -ar 48000 -i /dev/dsp -acodec pcm_s16le -f video4linux2 -s 720x480 -r 30000/1001 -i /dev/video0 -sameq -aspect 4:3 -f avi -vcodec mjpeg -r 30000/1001 -y webcam.avi

```

---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-12
> **StuartN said:**
> Same for me, but that seems incomplete - it does not specify video for linux. I know that this saves an AVI (webcam.avi) in the current directory, but I do not know what all the options are:

```
ffmpeg -f oss -ac 2 -ar 48000 -i /dev/dsp -acodec pcm_s16le -f video4linux2 -s 720x480 -r 30000/1001 -i /dev/video0 -sameq -aspect 4:3 -f avi -vcodec mjpeg -r 30000/1001 -y webcam.avi

```

OK when I ran this I get a huge output:

```

FFmpeg version 0.5-svn17737+3:0.svn20090303-1ubuntu6, Copyright (c) 2000-2009 Fabrice Bellard, et al.
  configuration: --enable-gpl --enable-postproc --enable-swscale --enable-x11grab --extra-version=svn17737+3:0.svn20090303-1ubuntu6 --prefix=/usr --enable-avfilter --enable-avfilter-lavf --enable-libgsm --enable-libschroedinger --enable-libspeex --enable-libtheora --enable-libvorbis --enable-pthreads --disable-stripping --disable-vhook --enable-libdc1394 --disable-armv5te --disable-armv6 --disable-armv6t2 --disable-armvfp --disable-neon --disable-altivec --disable-vis --enable-shared --disable-static
  libavutil     49.15. 0 / 49.15. 0
  libavcodec    52.20. 0 / 52.20. 0
  libavformat   52.31. 0 / 52.31. 0
  libavdevice   52. 1. 0 / 52. 1. 0
  libavfilter    0. 4. 0 /  0. 4. 0
  libswscale     0. 7. 1 /  0. 7. 1
  libpostproc   51. 2. 0 / 51. 2. 0
  built on Apr 10 2009 23:18:41, gcc: 4.3.3
[oss @ 0x81e6ac0]/dev/dsp: No such file or directory
*** glibc detected *** ffmpeg: double free or corruption (!prev): 0x081e8a80 ***
======= Backtrace: =========
/lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6[0xb7523604]
/lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6(cfree+0x96)[0xb75255b6]
/usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavformat.so.52(av_open_input_stream+0x154)[0xb7e590a4]
======= Memory map: ========
08048000-0805c000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6270417    /usr/bin/ffmpeg
0805c000-0805d000 r--p 00013000 08:01 6270417    /usr/bin/ffmpeg
0805d000-0805e000 rw-p 00014000 08:01 6270417    /usr/bin/ffmpeg
0805e000-08062000 rw-p 0805e000 00:00 0
081e0000-08201000 rw-p 081e0000 00:00 0          [heap]
b6e00000-b6e21000 rw-p b6e00000 00:00 0
b6e21000-b6f00000 ---p b6e21000 00:00 0
b6f9a000-b6fa7000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6758465    /lib/libgcc_s.so.1
b6fa7000-b6fa8000 r--p 0000c000 08:01 6758465    /lib/libgcc_s.so.1
b6fa8000-b6fa9000 rw-p 0000d000 08:01 6758465    /lib/libgcc_s.so.1
b6fa9000-b6fab000 rw-p b6fa9000 00:00 0
b6fab000-b6faf000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6268475    /usr/lib/libXdmcp.so.6.0.0
b6faf000-b6fb0000 rw-p 00003000 08:01 6268475    /usr/lib/libXdmcp.so.6.0.0
b6fb0000-b6fb4000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6269166    /usr/lib/libogg.so.0.5.3
b6fb4000-b6fb5000 r--p 00003000 08:01 6269166    /usr/lib/libogg.so.0.5.3
b6fb5000-b6fb6000 rw-p 00004000 08:01 6269166    /usr/lib/libogg.so.0.5.3
b6fb6000-b6fb7000 rw-p b6fb6000 00:00 0
b6fb7000-b700c000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6269168    /usr/lib/liboil-0.3.so.0.3.0
b700c000-b700d000 r--p 00054000 08:01 6269168    /usr/lib/liboil-0.3.so.0.3.0
b700d000-b7024000 rw-p 00055000 08:01 6269168    /usr/lib/liboil-0.3.so.0.3.0
b7024000-b7026000 rw-p b7024000 00:00 0
b7026000-b7028000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6268464    /usr/lib/libXau.so.6.0.0
b7028000-b7029000 r--p 00001000 08:01 6268464    /usr/lib/libXau.so.6.0.0
b7029000-b702a000 rw-p 00002000 08:01 6268464    /usr/lib/libXau.so.6.0.0
b702a000-b7042000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6268366    /usr/lib/libxcb.so.1.1.0
b7042000-b7043000 r--p 00017000 08:01 6268366    /usr/lib/libxcb.so.1.1.0
b7043000-b7044000 rw-p 00018000 08:01 6268366    /usr/lib/libxcb.so.1.1.0
b7044000-b704b000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6783045    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/librt-2.9.so
b704b000-b704c000 r--p 00006000 08:01 6783045    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/librt-2.9.so
b704c000-b704d000 rw-p 00007000 08:01 6783045    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/librt-2.9.so
b704d000-b704f000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6783032    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libdl-2.9.so
b704f000-b7050000 r--p 00001000 08:01 6783032    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libdl-2.9.so
b7050000-b7051000 rw-p 00002000 08:01 6783032    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libdl-2.9.so
b7051000-b7052000 rw-p b7051000 00:00 0
b7052000-b7057000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6269271    /usr/lib/libraw1394.so.8.2.0
b7057000-b7058000 r--p 00004000 08:01 6269271    /usr/lib/libraw1394.so.8.2.0
b7058000-b7059000 rw-p 00005000 08:01 6269271    /usr/lib/libraw1394.so.8.2.0
b7059000-b7074000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6269216    /usr/lib/libvorbis.so.0.4.0
b7074000-b7075000 r--p 0001a000 08:01 6269216    /usr/lib/libvorbis.so.0.4.0
b7075000-b7083000 rw-p 0001b000 08:01 6269216    /usr/lib/libvorbis.so.0.4.0
b7083000-b708e000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6269229    /usr/lib/libvorbisenc.so.2.0.3
b708e000-b708f000 r--p 0000a000 08:01 6269229    /usr/lib/libvorbisenc.so.2.0.3
b708f000-b717d000 rw-p 0000b000 08:01 6269229    /usr/lib/libvorbisenc.so.2.0.3
b717d000-b71cc000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6269363    /usr/lib/libtheora.so.0.3.4
b71cc000-b71cd000 r--p 0004e000 08:01 6269363    /usr/lib/libtheora.so.0.3.4
b71cd000-b71ce000 rw-p 0004f000 08:01 6269363    /usr/lib/libtheora.so.0.3.4
b71ce000-b71e9000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 4112386    /usr/lib/sse2/libspeex.so.1.5.0
b71e9000-b71ea000 r--p 0001a000 08:01 4112386    /usr/lib/sse2/libspeex.so.1.5.0
b71ea000-b71eb000 rw-p 0001b000 08:01 4112386    /usr/lib/sse2/libspeex.so.1.5.0
b71eb000-b71ec000 rw-p b71eb000 00:00 0
b71ec000-b7259000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6269294    /usr/lib/libschroedinger-1.0.so.0.1.0
b7259000-b725a000 r--p 0006d000 08:01 6269294    /usr/lib/libschroedinger-1.0.so.0.1.0
b725a000-b725b000 rw-p 0006e000 08:01 6269294    /usr/lib/libschroedinger-1.0.so.0.1.0
b725b000-b725c000 rw-p b725b000 00:00 0
b725c000-b7268000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6268911    /usr/lib/libgsm.so.1.0.12
b7268000-b7269000 rw-p 0000b000 08:01 6268911    /usr/lib/libgsm.so.1.0.12
b7269000-b727d000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6758561    /lib/libz.so.1.2.3.3
b727d000-b727e000 r--p 00013000 08:01 6758561    /lib/libz.so.1.2.3.3
b727e000-b727f000 rw-p 00014000 08:01 6758561    /lib/libz.so.1.2.3.3
b727f000-b728d000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6268477    /usr/lib/libXext.so.6.4.0
b728d000-b728e000 r--p 0000d000 08:01 6268477    /usr/lib/libXext.so.6.4.0
b728e000-b728f000 rw-p 0000e000 08:01 6268477    /usr/lib/libXext.so.6.4.0
b728f000-b7379000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6268458    /usr/lib/libX11.so.6.2.0
b7379000-b737a000 ---p 000ea000 08:01 6268458    /usr/lib/libX11.so.6.2.0
b737a000-b737b000 r--p 000ea000 08:01 6268458    /usr/lib/libX11.so.6.2.0
b737b000-b737d000 rw-p 000eb000 08:01 6268458    /usr/lib/libX11.so.6.2.0
b737d000-b737f000 rw-p b737d000 00:00 0
b737f000-b7442000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6268538    /usr/lib/libasound.so.2.0.0
b7442000-b7444000 r--p 000c2000 08:01 6268538    /usr/lib/libasound.so.2.0.0
b7444000-b7447000 rw-p 000c4000 08:01 6268538    /usr/lib/libasound.so.2.0.0
b7447000-b7473000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6268421    /usr/lib/libdc1394.so.22.1.0
b7473000-b7474000 rw-p 0002b000 08:01 6268421    /usr/lib/libdc1394.so.22.1.0
b7474000-b74b4000 rw-p b7474000 00:00 0
b74b4000-b7610000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6783029    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc-2.9.so
b7610000-b7611000 ---p 0015c000 08:01 6783029    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc-2.9.so
b7611000-b7613000 r--p 0015c000 08:01 6783029    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc-2.9.so
b7613000-b7614000 rw-p 0015e000 08:01 6783029    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc-2.9.so
b7614000-b7617000 rw-p b7614000 00:00 0
b7617000-b762c000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6783043    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libpthread-2.9.so
b762c000-b762d000 r--p 00014000 08:01 6783043    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libpthread-2.9.so
b762d000-b762e000 rw-p 00015000 08:01 6783043    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libpthread-2.9.so
b762e000-b7630000 rw-p b762e000 00:00 0
b7630000-b7654000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6783033    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libm-2.9.so
b7654000-b7655000 r--p 00023000 08:01 6783033    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libm-2.9.so
b7655000-b7656000 rw-p 00024000 08:01 6783033    /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libm-2.9.so
b7656000-b7657000 rw-p b7656000 00:00 0
b7657000-b7664000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6718346    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavutil.so.49.15.0
b7664000-b7665000 r--p 0000c000 08:01 6718346    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavutil.so.49.15.0
b7665000-b7666000 rw-p 0000d000 08:01 6718346    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavutil.so.49.15.0
b7666000-b7669000 rw-p b7666000 00:00 0
b7669000-b7b27000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6718357    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavcodec.so.52.20.0
b7b27000-b7b28000 r--p 004be000 08:01 6718357    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavcodec.so.52.20.0
b7b28000-b7b31000 rw-p 004bf000 08:01 6718357    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavcodec.so.52.20.0
b7b31000-b7e3e000 rw-p b7b31000 00:00 0
b7e3e000-b7ee9000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6718369    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavformat.so.52.31.0
b7ee9000-b7eea000 r--p 000ab000 08:01 6718369    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavformat.so.52.31.0
b7eea000-b7ef0000 rw-p 000ac000 08:01 6718369    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavformat.so.52.31.0
b7ef0000-b7f3c000 rw-p b7ef0000 00:00 0
b7f3c000-b7f45000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6718380    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavdevice.so.52.1.0
b7f45000-b7f46000 r--p 00008000 08:01 6718380    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavdevice.so.52.1.0
b7f46000-b7f47000 rw-p 00009000 08:01 6718380    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavdevice.so.52.1.0
b7f47000-b7f75000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6718417    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libswscale.so.0.7.1
b7f75000-b7f76000 r--p 0002d000 08:01 6718417    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libswscale.so.0.7.1
b7f76000-b7f77000 rw-p 0002e000 08:01 6718417    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libswscale.so.0.7.1
b7f77000-b7f78000 rw-p b7f77000 00:00 0
b7f78000-b7f86000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6718406    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libpostproc.so.51.2.0
b7f86000-b7f87000 r--p 0000e000 08:01 6718406    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libpostproc.so.51.2.0
b7f87000-b7f88000 rw-p 0000f000 08:01 6718406    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libpostproc.so.51.2.0
b7f88000-b7f8c000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6718382    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavfilter.so.0.4.0
b7f8c000-b7f8d000 r--p 00003000 08:01 6718382    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavfilter.so.0.4.0
b7f8d000-b7f8e000 rw-p 00004000 08:01 6718382    /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavfilter.so.0.4.0
b7f9e000-b7fa0000 rw-p b7f9e000 00:00 0
b7fa0000-b7fa1000 r-xp b7fa0000 00:00 0          [vdso]
b7fa1000-b7fbd000 r-xp 00000000 08:01 6758414    /lib/ld-2.9.so
b7fbd000-b7fbe000 r--p 0001b000 08:01 6758414    /lib/ld-2.9.so
b7fbe000-b7fbf000 rw-p 0001c000 08:01 6758414    /lib/ld-2.9.so
bf8a9000-bf8be000 rw-p bffeb000 00:00 0          [stack]
Aborted

```

It just aborted and it really didn't tell me why.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-10-12
> **zdunham said:**
> OK when I ran this I get a huge output:

```

[oss @ 0x81e6ac0]/dev/dsp: No such file or directory
*** glibc detected *** ffmpeg: double free or corruption (!prev): 0x081e8a80 ***
```


That message refers to /dev/dsp, the audio digital signal processor, not being available. It is possible that audio is the cause of the problem for you. It might run if you omit the audio capture:

```
ffmpeg -f video4linux2 -s 720x480 -r 30000/1001 -i /dev/video0 -sameq -aspect 4:3 -f avi -vcodec mjpeg -r 30000/1001 -y webcam.avi

```

I have trimmed this down to **ffmpeg -f video4linux2 -s 720x480 -r 30000/1001 -i /dev/video0 -y webcam.avi** and still got a playable webcam.avi file.

---

### Post by zdunham on 2009-10-12
> **StuartN said:**
> That message refers to /dev/dsp, the audio digital signal processor, not being available. It is possible that audio is the cause of the problem for you. It might run if you omit the audio capture:

```
ffmpeg -f video4linux2 -s 720x480 -r 30000/1001 -i /dev/video0 -sameq -aspect 4:3 -f avi -vcodec mjpeg -r 30000/1001 -y webcam.avi

```

I have trimmed this down to **ffmpeg -f video4linux2 -s 720x480 -r 30000/1001 -i /dev/video0 -y webcam.avi** and still got a playable webcam.avi file.

Tried this and got a different result this time:

```

someone@somewhere:# ffmpeg -f video4linux2 -s 720x480 -r 30000/1001 -i /dev/video0 -y webcam.avi
FFmpeg version 0.5-svn17737+3:0.svn20090303-1ubuntu6, Copyright (c) 2000-2009 Fabrice Bellard, et al.
  configuration: --enable-gpl --enable-postproc --enable-swscale --enable-x11grab --extra-version=svn17737+3:0.svn20090303-1ubuntu6 --prefix=/usr --enable-avfilter --enable-avfilter-lavf --enable-libgsm --enable-libschroedinger --enable-libspeex --enable-libtheora --enable-libvorbis --enable-pthreads --disable-stripping --disable-vhook --enable-libdc1394 --disable-armv5te --disable-armv6 --disable-armv6t2 --disable-armvfp --disable-neon --disable-altivec --disable-vis --enable-shared --disable-static
  libavutil     49.15. 0 / 49.15. 0
  libavcodec    52.20. 0 / 52.20. 0
  libavformat   52.31. 0 / 52.31. 0
  libavdevice   52. 1. 0 / 52. 1. 0
  libavfilter    0. 4. 0 /  0. 4. 0
  libswscale     0. 7. 1 /  0. 7. 1
  libpostproc   51. 2. 0 / 51. 2. 0
  built on Apr 10 2009 23:18:41, gcc: 4.3.3
[video4linux2 @ 0x8bb9ac0][3]Capabilities: 4000001
[video4linux2 @ 0x8bb9ac0]Cannot find a proper format.
/dev/video0: I/O error occurred
Usually that means that input file is truncated and/or corrupted.
someone@something:#

```

I'm not quite sure why it wouldn't be able to find the proper format. I looked up the format for this camera when I tried to use Zoneminder (I couldn't get it to work there either and now you have showed me ffmpeg is the problem) and for 640x480 resolution it said to use PAL and YUYV, there were also resolutions to use PAL and RGB24. I tried the command you gave me but I also tried it with 640x480 resolution instead of 720x480 like in your command. Still did not work.

Thanks for all your help by the way, I appreciate it.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-02-24
did you ever get this working
if not get the program ( wxcam ) it has movement detection

---

### Post by arfiansyah on 2012-06-27
please help me,
i have 4 ip camera,.how to configure those ipcamera in **motion**??
how to see the video??
how to display **motion **in our web browser?? i wanna get the video link and then i wanna display it from android..
can u suggest to me what software can i use for this security case??

---

