---
title: "9.10 VNC with home server (noob question)"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MemoriesOfMotion on 2009-11-13
Hey guys, as stated, I'm new with ubuntu.  A month ago I installed the 9.04 server and then used terminal to get gnome on my little server.  Then I upgraded to 9.10.  I don't have any time to work on this at home so I thought I would work on my server remotely via VNC.  My problem is after i reboot, I cant log in.  I tried to use the auto login after reboot, but that nether works nor is it an acceptable way to run a server.  

As I have said, im new at this so i don't know much.  I don't really care how I log this in, but i need to be able to, then run VNC.  While trying to solve this problem of my own, I read something about logging in with SSH and then being able to start VNC session (something along those lines) but I didn't understand what they were saying or if it would even work for me.  

I am very interested in learning about server management and its related software components.  Any help would be much appreciated.  But because I know its new, I would like to restate that I am using 9.10.:P

---

### Post by XCan on 2009-11-13
Does VNC work at all for you? Is it enabled? I just wanted to mention that Vino won't run at the login screen, and will only starts once the user logs in. It is fairly easy to set it up to run at the login screen (gdm), but before you go into that, I think it's best to make sure VNC works at all.

---

### Post by MemoriesOfMotion on 2009-11-16
Yeah, actually it works very well.  No problems setting it up.

---

### Post by XCan on 2009-11-16
Ah, so it just doesn't work when you have Ubuntu on auto-login/not-logging-in-at-all? If you still are up for trying the auto-login thingy one last time, you could attempt and add vino-server to the startup apps, or run it through ssh and see if you can connect. It should, however, start up by itself if you have auto-login enabled.

---

### Post by MemoriesOfMotion on 2009-11-16
I found the problem.  Key Ring is preventing my box from connecting to the wifi in my home at start up until I put in a password.  This is a pain, but I assume that if I had the box plugged into LAN via wire this would not have been a problem.  This is only with auto login though.  

Were you saying that there was a way to have vino-server run at the log on screen?  I would rater not have my server logged on automatically. 

Thanks for your help again by the way.

---

### Post by XCan on 2009-11-17
Indeed, it's very easy to get it to run at the login screen.

What you want to do is to edit ```
 /etc/gdm/Init/Default 
``` and add ```
 /usr/lib/vino/vino-server & 
``` just before it says ```
 exit 0 
```

That's all, vino will start now at the login, however, since it will not run under your user you better secure it up for the root user by running, for example, ```
 gksudo vino-preferences 
```

The above will also kick you out once you login, as the gdm process terminates and your own user starts its own vino-server. You can prevent that too by editing gdm.conf, but I find it unnecessary as a simple reconnect fixes it on the client.

---

### Post by MemoriesOfMotion on 2009-11-17
Thanks, ill try this at home and tell you if I hit pay dirt.

---

### Post by fluffman86 on 2009-11-17
if you need to auto connect to wireless, the right click on network manager (near the clock), click your wireless connection, then edit, then check the box at the bottom to make it available to all users.  That means it shouldn't need a password to connect each time.

---

### Post by MemoriesOfMotion on 2009-11-17
Thanks fluf!  I would rather not auto login but its good to know for later.

---

### Post by MemoriesOfMotion on 2009-11-17
Hey, like I said before, im new at all this.  I tried editing the file in the basic txt program but it didn't want to save.  Also, the last peace of code you were talking about, what does that mean exactly?

---

### Post by MemoriesOfMotion on 2009-11-17
Never mind, I found out how to edit it. Am I to assume that my server needs to be connected by LAN in order to make use of this?  Because its on wifi I'm not having luck with this.

---

### Post by MemoriesOfMotion on 2009-11-18
So, i tried what Fluf said for a quick fix and it made my server blow up.  Something about permissions and stuff.  Blah.  Anyway, im going to reinstall the server today and ill get back to you about this.

---

### Post by XCan on 2009-11-18
> **MemoriesOfMotion said:**
> Hey, like I said before, im new at all this.  I tried editing the file in the basic txt program but it didn't want to save.  Also, the last peace of code you were talking about, what does that mean exactly?

If you're referring to the text file in my post /etc/gdm/Init/Default , you need to edit it as root by, for example, running
```
 gksudo gedit /etc/gdm/Init/Default 
``` :)

---

