---
title: "10.04 graphics crash"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Laser Wave on 2010-05-01
I just upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 via the System Upgrade and everything seems to have installed fine and it loads up as normal to the login screen but when going any further it seems to crash and just display a load of bright colours.  I'm using an Acer Aspire 5670 with ATI Radeon Mobility x1500 graphics card so I'm presuming it's an issue with the graphics drivers but I'm not sure how to fix it.  Any help would be appreciated, thanks.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2010-05-01
HI Laser Wave

I have a Radeon X1650 "R500" card and have no problems .Your card uses default OSS drivers that are correct Lucid. Our cards are legacy so no fglrx. 
Have you change your xorg.conf file?
 The main difference with video between Karmic and Lucid is KMS, it can be shut off with nomodeset added to boot string.

sharky

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-01
remove xorg.conf
remove all video driver but radeon
and add radeon.modeset=0

---

### Post by Laser Wave on 2010-05-01
Thanks for the help, I just formatted the partition and reinstalled and it's working perfectly now.

---

### Post by vajda on 2010-05-02
Hi, 
I have same problem with FujitsuSiemens ESPRIMO mobile, after I upgrade to 10.04 from 9.10 monitor shivers and after few minutes I get blank (black) screen. I tried to go to System-hardwer but cant open it. Try to open Synoptic but no luck. How can I fix this, I am not very good with coding so step by step would be nice:). Thanks.

---

### Post by rhkhan2002 on 2010-07-09
I have a Gateway lt3103u netbook with ATI Radeon graphics.  I upgraded from kubuntu 9.10 to 10.04.  The display works correctly for a while but then gets all distorted.  When I boot using Kernel 2.6.31.22 from the grub menu I do not have the problem.  If I use any of the newer Kernels the problem happens after 5 to 10 minutes.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by fastninja500 on 2010-09-27
Ubuntu newbie here.... 
 
I don't know if this will help anyone, but after almost quitting on Ubuntu 10.04 because of constant screen crashes, and right before wiping out Ubuntu 10.04 and installing Fedora 13 (which looked pretty good too!), I said to myself: "ok, one more try ....", I opened up the computer case to possibly allow more cooling. I know.... not really geeky technical but I figured ... what the heck, nothing has worked anyway. Just remove that one possibility that the computer may be heating up. 
 
Well, whaddayaknow .... the computer hasn't crashed for the 24 hours its been on. Who woulda thunk that?! 
 
Details: 
For about a year, I've been running Ubuntu 9.04 on three different old desktops (Dell GX 260, HP/Compaq d220 MT and a Sony Viao something....), all with Pentium-4 and 2-gigs of RAM, and dual-booted with Windows XP. No special graphics card. Just using the onboard video on the motherboard. I think they're all Intel. Everything ran great and I really loved using Ubuntu 9.04. 
 
I tried Ubuntu 9.10, on all three computers but didn't really like it cause there were too many quirky things going on - layman's terms for not really knowing how to fix them. Told you I was a newbie. 
 
Eventually got around to installing Ubuntu 10.04, first on the Dell, then the Sony Vaio. Everything worked great. Fast, clean, stable, Mac-like,.... really liked it. Decided to finally ditch Ubuntu 9.04 for 10.04. 
 
The Dell and Sony desktops have been running great on 10.04 for several months now. Somehow, the HP/Compaq kept screen crashing. The monitor would just go blink after close to an hour of using it. So, I kinda figured it was time (and possibly, temperature-related). I switched monitors, just to verify that it wasn't the monitor. I tried three different monitors (CRT and LCD) and it still kept screen crashing. The only way to get back to work was to reboot the computer. 
 
So I figured it was the video driver. Looked all over the web for a solution. I tried a multitude of possible solutions. Basically, I was stuck. So, really disappointed, I downloaded Fedora 13 and decided to try it on this HP/Compaq computer. If that didn't work, I was going to re-install Ubuntu 9.04 instead. 
 
(side note: I also downloaded Linux Mint 9, codename "Isadora", and it too resulted in screen crashes, running from live cd). 
 
Anyway, long story short, thankfully, allowing more cooling seemed to have solved it! I'll just have to increase the cooling on this HP computer. Maybe a better fan. I don't really want to spend any money, since I just rebuild these computers from donated parts and give them away to kids/families that can't afford a computer. 
 
What I don't understand is that this computer never had screen crashes with Ubuntu 9.04. Not even for days/weeks that I used to leave the computer on. It also didn't crash when I tried Fedora 13 for a few hours, running from the live cd. With the case closed. So logically, it seems that running Ubuntu 10.04 give the cpu more of a workout, and maybe generates more heat? 
 
Anyway, I am happy once again with 10.04. Now if only they can fix the disappearing cursor when you use the "Detect Monitor" option.

---

### Post by garethfoxwilliams on 2010-11-09
I wonder if this is related to my problem.

My parents' ( 80 and 78 y/o ) Dell PC has been running XP for years.

As I have just got them onto broadband, I have clean installed 10.04 Lucid.

During the post-install upgrade, there was a graphics crash ( I assume) giving slightly slanted black/white stripes across the screen. this persisted after an immediate restart, so I re-installed immediately.

Now, several weeks later, they are experiencing similar crashes on an occasional basis. 

Apparently things are usually OK after a restart, but recently, it was still bad after several restarts.

The next day, things were fine for a while and crashed later.

Sadly, they live several hours drive from me and so I can't get access to the machine till December. However I'm looking for clues in the meantime - any ideas?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-09
While it COULD be video drivers, without knowing which video chipset is at work, and which drivers, it's impossible to tell accurately.

It could also be heat-related, especially if it happens only after the PC has been on for a few hours and subject to constant use.  I've read a LOT more about heat-related problems with 10.04 than with previous Ubuntu versions.

It could also be a failing monitor, especially if the PC is several years old.  I had a Dell flat panel LCD fail on me after only a couple of years.

Sorry, but without direct access to the PC, there's very little you can do (regardless of the particular OS involved) to diagnose and fix a problem like this.

---

### Post by Noccy on 2010-11-26
I experience the same with an Acer Aspire 5551 with a Mobility Radeon HD 4200. Causing a crash is not harder than fullscreening a youtube video or switching between the VTs with a game running.

**fglrxinfo**
```
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4200
OpenGL version string: 3.3.10317 Compatibility Profile Context
```

**lspci**
```
00:00.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 Host Bridge Alternate
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (int gfx)
00:04.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (PCIE port 0)
00:05.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (PCIE port 1)
00:11.0 SATA controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 SATA Controller [AHCI mode]
00:12.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB OHCI0 Controller
00:12.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB EHCI Controller
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB OHCI0 Controller
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB EHCI Controller
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 SMBus Controller (rev 41)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 IDE Controller (rev 40)
00:14.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA) (rev 40)
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 LPC host controller (rev 40)
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 PCI to PCI Bridge (rev 40)
00:14.5 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB700/SB800 USB OHCI2 Controller
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K10 [Opteron, Athlon64, Sempron] HyperTransport Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K10 [Opteron, Athlon64, Sempron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K10 [Opteron, Athlon64, Sempron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K10 [Opteron, Athlon64, Sempron] Miscellaneous Control
00:18.4 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K10 [Opteron, Athlon64, Sempron] Link Control
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc M880G [Mobility Radeon HD 4200]
01:05.1 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc RS880 Audio Device [Radeon HD 4200]
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetLink BCM57780 Gigabit Ethernet PCIe (rev 01)
08:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation Device 4357 (rev 01)
```

Nothing relevant in /var/log/messages. Only way to restart is to cycle the power, or in worst case pull the battery as sometimes the graphics card seems to refuse to start back up again after a crash.

Any ideas?

---

