---
title: "12.04 Can I set the date to display in English instead of my local language?"
date: 2013-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zemega on 2013-05-07
Hi, I set the date and time to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia as I work here now. And the date in the panel show up as Mei instead of May and Rabu instead of Wednesday. Now can I make it in English instead of the local language. I installed it in Kuala Lumpur as well, if that is an important clue.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2013-05-08
> **zemega said:**
> Hi, I set the date and time to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia as I work here now. And the date in the panel show up as Mei instead of May and Rabu instead of Wednesday. Now can I make it in English instead of the local language. I installed it in Kuala Lumpur as well, if that is an important clue.

Funny: "Mei" is Malaysian for May? My Ubuntu alas also shows "mei", but that is ... Dutch. :D

Anyway: I have the same problem and looking for an answer too.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-05-08
> **sanderj said:**
> Funny: "Mei" is Malaysian for May? My Ubuntu alas also shows "mei", but that is ... Dutch. :D
Not really surprising, as Malaysia and Indonesia adopted a common spelling for their respective dialects of the Malay language, and Indonesia, being a former dutch colony, had already adopted the dutch names of the months.

I'm sorry I can't teach you more than a little bit of history. I'm sure though that timezone settings and language settings are independent parts of your locale. Is the rest of your system in english?

---

### Post by zemega on 2013-05-08
Yes, the rest of the system is in full English that I'm aware off. I tried looking into some settings, but I can't find any. Is it some localised setting somewhere? Because if there is any, I would like to turn it off.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-05-08
What languages do both of you have installed, other than English? Malay? Dutch? With an additonal language installed then things like date and time can be displayed in regional formats. Especially if we click to apply system wide. I am not sure if that includes regional names. 

Regards.

---

### Post by zemega on 2013-05-08
I see it now. Its in the Language Support/ Regional Formats settings. This is solved.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2013-05-09
> **zemega said:**
> I see it now. Its in the Language Support/ Regional Formats settings. This is solved.

After changing that and a logout/login, it works for me: "mei" is now "may". Thank you!

---

