---
title: "9.04 64-bit on ShipIt?"
date: 2009-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Panarchy on 2009-04-29
Hello

I remember some discussion on this with 8.10, are they providing it with 9.04?

Or just the LTS?

Please tell me what's going on.

Thanks in advance,

Panarchy

---

### Post by tommynz1975 on 2009-04-29
shipit.ubuntu.com

use your ubuntu.com password and email address
yes order away.. takes maybe 6-10 weeks......

enjoy ubuntu


My experience on last order 8.10, it got lost in the post and Ubuntu didn't approve any other order request.

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2009-04-29
Where?

[IMG]http://i41.tinypic.com/2mchxts.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-04-30
Hi Panarchy,

> **Panarchy said:**
> I remember some discussion on this with 8.10, are they providing it with 9.04?

Does not look good on my examination of the site. You may need to contact shipit by email and request clarification. I see on the [FAQs]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/shipit-faq") there is an email address:

> If you experience any problems with ShipIt, please:

Email [email]info@shipit.ubuntu.com[/email]

I would be interested to see the response.

Andrew

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2009-04-30
Sent, now just waiting for a reply.

---

### Post by ch_123 on 2009-05-03
I also sent an email... a few days before the official release. No word back.

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2009-05-04
Hopefully we'll get some info soon!

---

### Post by bvanaerde on 2009-05-05
I have requested a desktop edition with shipit... I'm hoping the 64bit is included as well.
It could take a while though
> 1 CDs requested on 2009-04-17. 1 CDs were approved and sent to the shipping company on 2009-04-20. Please note requests usually take from 4 to 6 weeks to deliver, depending on the country of shipping.
So it's best to just download the image from the internet :)

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2009-05-23
Mine arrived about a week ago, 2 of each available.

No 64-bit one, and still haven't got a reply from ShipIt!

---

