---
title: "8.10 X Server won't start."
date: 2008-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shortcut144 on 2008-11-05
I have seen a lot of X server posts but I am sorry, I cannot find the one that can help me situation.  Here is my story, I appreciate anyone who tries to help.

So I saw this neat hack [http://lifehacker.com/5074959/speed-up-linux-hard-drives-by-disabling-atime](http://lifehacker.com/5074959/speed-up-linux-hard-drives-by-disabling-atime)

Did it and everything went fine.  Restarted a few times and it really help speed up my old laptop.  All no problems.  Well one day I restarted my laptop and got a message saying "Drive has been mounted 31 times... forced check"  Well it did the check and then gave me this.  [http://img522.imageshack.us/my.php?image=pb041001xs3.jpg](http://img522.imageshack.us/my.php?image=pb041001xs3.jpg)

So I think I just need to change my fstab back to the original state but I cannot because the Drive seems to be read-only and logging in as root doesn't seem to help.

Any ideas?

What have I learned? (Don't fix what ain't broke)

---

### Post by shortcut144 on 2008-11-05
Shameless Bump!

Sorry guys, I am really stuck.  Anything at all might be helpful.

---

### Post by devoda on 2008-11-05
Did you follow every step given from that lifehacker link. More specifically did you do this command?
```
cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.original
```
If you did do that step, then reverse the changes by typing the following code in your terminal.
```
sudo cp /etc/fstab.original /etc/fstab
```
If that doesn't work, I would manually take out the following changes to your fstab.
```
noatime,nodiratime
```
Tell me if that helps.

---

### Post by devoda on 2008-11-05
> **shortcut144 said:**
>  I cannot because the Drive seems to be read-only and logging in as root doesn't seem to help.
I failed to recognise what you said here on my first post. I retract my previous answer. I would try to boot from a live cd and mount the partition from there. You can specify specific options when mounting your hard drive from the cdrom live distro. 
```
sudo mount -t ext3 /dev/sda1 /mnt -o relatime
```
The following is an example showing how to mount your first hard disk partition (given that is your root file system) if it is formatted as ext3.
Keep me updated.

---

### Post by shortcut144 on 2008-11-05
Well I did the command and new errors showed so I assume it went through OK on the Live CD.  While trying to access fstab while on the Live CD it gave me 

```
unionfs / unionfs rw 0 0
tmpfs /tmp tmpfs nosuid,nodev 0 0
/dev/sda5 swap defaults
```

Which is nowhere close to my original fstab.  Anyway, I did the smart thing before all this and everything important I have is on a flash drive so I am just gonna reinstall for now.  Thanks for the attempt but I need a working laptop now for school.

My question to Linux Devs.  Why make a recovery console that a read only?

---

