---
title: "8.10- Nvidia Accelerated Graphics MX 440"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Amerinidiot1231 on 2008-11-02
I am having issues trying to get the Nvidia Driver to install so that I can enable desktop effects.  On the 8.04 release I had issues, however, I was able to resolve them myself through the xorg.conf file.  This time I am having more trouble.

I am using:
Ubuntu 8.10 
Nvidia GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x

In synaptic the Nvidia package I believe I should use is nvidia-glx-71, however that package is incompatible with the nvidia-xconfig package, and this makes my system want to boot into 'Low graphics mode'.

In order to prevent the 'low graphics mode' I am using the generic xorg.conf file as well.

---

### Post by carloshiga on 2008-11-03
I have the same problem

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=967189&highlight=nvidia+geforce4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=967189&highlight=nvidia+geforce4)

This is what I found in release notes for 8.10:

[I][COLOR="Red"]The 71 and 96 series of proprietary nVidia drivers, as provided by the nvidia-glx-legacy and nvidia-glx packages in Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, are not compatible with the X.Org included in Ubuntu 8.10. Users with the nVidia TNT, TNT2, TNT Ultra, GeForce, GeForce2, GeForce3, and GeForce4 chipsets are affected and will be transitioned on upgrade to the free nv driver instead. This driver does not support 3D acceleration.

Users of other nVidia chipsets that are supported by the 173 or 177 driver series will be transitioned to the nvidia-glx-173 or nvidia-glx-177 package instead. However, unlike drivers 96 and 71, drivers 173 and 177 are only compatible with CPUs that support SSE (e.g. Intel Pentium III, AMD Athlon XP or higher). Systems with older CPUs will also be transitioned to the nv driver on upgrade.
[/COLOR][/I]

The original link is here

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810#nVidia%20%22legacy%22%20video%20support](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810#nVidia%20%22legacy%22%20video%20support)

---

### Post by solitaire on 2008-11-03
> **Amerinidiot1231 said:**
> I am having issues trying to get the Nvidia Driver to install so that I can enable desktop effects.  On the 8.04 release I had issues, however, I was able to resolve them myself through the xorg.conf file.  This time I am having more trouble.

I am using:
Ubuntu 8.10 
Nvidia GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x

In synaptic the Nvidia package I believe I should use is nvidia-glx-71, however that package is incompatible with the nvidia-xconfig package, and this makes my system want to boot into 'Low graphics mode'.

In order to prevent the 'low graphics mode' I am using the generic xorg.conf file as well.

Have you tried the nvidia-glx-96 drivers?

I've got a GeForce4 440 Go on my laptop and I have to use the 96 drivers!

Also try install EnvyNG (it's in synaptic) it should pick and install the correct drivers.

---

### Post by Amerinidiot1231 on 2008-11-03
I have now tried all the drivers including the 96 and none work including when I try to install with EnvyNG.  Every time I reboot with the driver installed after it has edited my xorg.conf file ubuntu wants to boot into low graphics mode.

In system-->admin-->Hardware Drivers there are no active drivers listed.  According to EnvyNG I should be using the 96 driver as well.

---

### Post by shantanu18 on 2008-11-03
remove nvidia-glx-96 and install nvidia-glx. I think nvidia-glx will support your card.
to remove nvidia-glx-96
```

sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx-96

```
Install nvidia-glx
```

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx

```

And then reboot your system..

---

### Post by Amerinidiot1231 on 2008-11-03
There is no one explicit package "nvidia-glx," only the number glx packages ie 96 or 177.  Are you suggesting using a different repo?

---

### Post by Amerinidiot1231 on 2008-11-04
I think I have found the issue but dont know how to fix it

here is an error on start up

-------------------
(EE) Failed to load /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//nvidia_drv.so
(EE) Failed to load module "nvidia" (loader failed, 7)
(EE) No drivers available
-------------------

drivers//nvidia_drv.so

is the double / allowed?  could that be a typo and now the system cant find the driver?

I verified that /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/nvidia_drv.so exists

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2008-11-04
nvidia have not released stable drivers for 8.10 yet they are still in beta testing

---

### Post by whsutton on 2008-11-04
It doesn't hurt to try though? here's a link that may be helpful..):P

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14)

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-04
I contacted NVIDIA and received this response. I chose to remain with Hardy until this driver is released in an update. Hope this helps.

> 
There is a beta driver, version 96.43.09, which supports the kernel and X server 
shipped with Ubuntu 8.10.  There is an Ubuntu package for it, but it's currently 
in intrepid-proposed, which means you won't get it automatically unless you 
enable the "proposed updates" checkbox in the "software sources" control panel.

Hope that helps!

Aaron

---

### Post by Jaypur on 2008-11-04
i really need that driver too, i dont wanna come back to 8.04 for real...

---

### Post by axa1001 on 2008-11-04
i have an MX440, and i installed the beta driver found [here]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122139")

It works great for me, i now have Compiz/"Advanced Desktop Effects" running nicely :)

the installer decided it needed to build it's own kernel module as there were no existing ones suitable, which took a couple of minutes... but it was a smooth install and i now have funky eye-candy again :)

---

### Post by BossDj on 2008-11-04
I followed "Aarons" advice and turned on 'proposed updates' under administration > software sources > updates, then opened up my update manager and updated mostly everything (I was feeling brave). It updated nvidia 96 to .09 (which is the update offered under the nvnews link). Proprietary drivers found my card like a charm (geforce4 ti 4600).

Following, I had some tweak issues that were resolved by adding the line 

 Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"

under the Section "Screen" in xorg.conf

(use sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf to add the line)

---

### Post by mplexus on 2008-11-05
These drivers that whsutton and axa1001 pointed worked for me too - many thanks.

I got a GeForce FX Go 5700 (laptop).

And I had to add the option that BossDj suggested as well
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
in /etc/X11/xorg.conf because I could see no window borders
and no screenlets and no AvantWindowNavigator - many thanks too!

---

### Post by carloshiga on 2008-11-05
> **BossDj said:**
> I followed "Aarons" advice and turned on 'proposed updates' under administration > software sources > updates, then opened up my update manager and updated mostly everything (I was feeling brave). It updated nvidia 96 to .09 (which is the update offered under the nvnews link). Proprietary drivers found my card like a charm (geforce4 ti 4600).

Following, I had some tweak issues that were resolved by adding the line 

 Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"

under the Section "Screen" in xorg.conf

(use sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf to add the line)

I did it and the driver seems to work but some menu bars do not appear correctly, for example, the aMSN's menu bar. Compiz runs fine, except that I did not find where to configure the advanced visual effects :confused:
My video card is GeForce4 MX 440 AGP8X

---

### Post by mplexus on 2008-11-07
Well, after the last update (07 November 2008 ) the new nvidia-glx-96 repository driver compiles and installs correctly (/lib/modules/2.6.27-7-generic/updates/dkms/nvidia.ko).

Cool! 8)

---

### Post by oliwally on 2008-11-07
Beauty! After updating and then running EnvyNG tonight my MX440 finally works. Now I just have to get wobbly windows etc to kick in.... doesn't seem to be quite right yet.

---

### Post by oliwally on 2008-11-07
Got it all working. Used Synaptic to install all of the Compiz stuff and now I have wobbly windows, desktop cube and all the other neat effects. \\:D/

---

### Post by q.dinar on 2009-02-19
i have turned "proposed updates" and backports in a computer with nv. mx 440 and installed that version of driver, but it has not worked. "hardware drivers" is empty. may be that is because no all updates of ubuntu 8.10 were installed that time (when i was trying to install the driver) (near 140 of near 220 at first were not downloaded)?
also i had installed envyng, but it did not help.
i have never edited xorg.conf.
it seem quite heavy to install .run file from nvidia site because i need to read to learn many.

---

### Post by Redsandro on 2009-02-21
I have that nVidia MX440 AGP8x, and I just installed Xubuntu 8.10, fully updated as of today.

Both the automatic restricted driver and Envy's 96.43.09 or 7something didn't work.

The 7something gave me that error message that has been mentioned before, dropping to 'low graphics mode' (but still in my flatscreens' native 1024x768).
The 96.xx.09 didn't give me an error but suddenly 640x480 was the highest resolution I could choose, and my flatscreen didn't work (other sync I think) anymore, but a CRT monitor does.

So, I don't know what's different in my case, but I cannot get it to work. I will google some more now because Xubuntu 8.10 is booting so fast for me, I really don't want to go back to 8.04...

---

### Post by solitaire on 2009-02-21
> **Redsandro said:**
> I have that nVidia MX440 AGP8x, and I just installed Xubuntu 8.10, fully updated as of today.

Both the automatic restricted driver and Envy's 96.43.09 or 7something didn't work.

The 7something gave me that error message that has been mentioned before, dropping to 'low graphics mode' (but still in my flatscreens' native 1024x768).
The 96.xx.09 didn't give me an error but suddenly 640x480 was the highest resolution I could choose, and my flatscreen didn't work (other sync I think) anymore, but a CRT monitor does.

So, I don't know what's different in my case, but I cannot get it to work. I will google some more now because Xubuntu 8.10 is booting so fast for me, I really don't want to go back to 8.04...


it's a bug in the 96. drivers... it only looks for a CRT output instead of searching for valid outputs.
there is an easy fix.

try this:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-96/+bug/251107/comments/52](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-96/+bug/251107/comments/52)

---

### Post by q.dinar on 2009-04-27
do nvidia mx 400 videocards work with ubuntu 9.04 ?

---

### Post by q.dinar on 2009-05-04
hello.

"bump".

does MX 440 work easily with ubuntu 9.04?

---

