---
title: "./ Does Not Work"
date: 2011-12-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jmoney47 on 2011-12-19
Hey everybody,

I am running Ubuntu 10.10 on my 32-bit machine.  I have found that whenever I try to run a script using "./" it gives me a permission denied error, even when the file is executable and I run the command with "sudo."  An example is when I run the file found [here](http://theunlockr.com/2010/03/26/how-to-create-your-own-custom-rom-for-android-part-1-setting-up-the-kitchen/) at part V, I get the error "bash: ./menu: Permission denied."  This happens with any file I try to run with "./".  What should I do to fix this?

Thank you so much

---

### Post by thaelim on 2011-12-19
Can you copy-paste the exact error message you get?

---

### Post by jmoney47 on 2011-12-19
> **thaelim said:**
> Can you copy-paste the exact error message you get?

I did. That was the quotes starting with "bash" if you can help I'd really appreciate it

---

### Post by Synoc on 2011-12-19
can you paste the ls -l on the script file for us?

---

### Post by thaelim on 2011-12-20
> **Synoc said:**
> can you paste the ls -l on the script file for us?

That was going to be my next question...

---

### Post by jmoney47 on 2011-12-20
> **Synoc said:**
> can you paste the ls -l on the script file for us?

Ahh I understand why it would not work now.  The file did not have executable permissions.  An interesting issue though:  while this file was saved on my external hard drive (where I keep all of my data), I could not grant it executable permissions.  However, when I copied it to my system hard drive, it could be granted the permissions.  Why is that?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-12-20
> **jmoney47 said:**
> Ahh I understand why it would not work now.  The file did not have executable permissions.  An interesting issue though:  while this file was saved on my external hard drive (where I keep all of my data), I could not grant it executable permissions.  However, when I copied it to my system hard drive, it could be granted the permissions.  Why is that?

What is the filesystem of your external drive? Windows filesystems do not support Linux permissions. :)

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-12-20
Your external hard drive presumably uses NTFS or FAT, and these filesystems don't support UNIX file permissions.

---

### Post by jmoney47 on 2011-12-20
> **snowpine said:**
> What is the filesystem of your external drive? Windows filesystems do not support Linux permissions. :)

Okay I see.  Thank you everyone.  I guess I will be formatting it after backing up everything. Oh fun!

Actually, is there a file system that would be recommended for me to use?  I mainly use the drive for Android development and Java programming, so I am often writing and re-writing small files to the drive.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-12-20
Depends on whether you want to access the files from multiple types of operating system or not. If you plan on sharing files between Windows and Ubuntu, NTFS is best. If you're just planning on using it for Ubuntu/other Linux-based operating systems, ext3 or ext4 would be best. ReiserFS is supposed to be good for small files, but I can't personally recommend it.

---

### Post by Synoc on 2011-12-20
> **WorMzy said:**
> Depends on whether you want to access the files from multiple types of operating system or not. If you plan on sharing files between Windows and Ubuntu, NTFS is best. If you're just planning on using it for Ubuntu/other Linux-based operating systems, ext3 or ext4 would be best. ReiserFS is supposed to be good for small files, but I can't personally recommend it.

ReiserFS was supposed to be the most sophisticated OS out there, but the developer has some... legal issues, unrelated to this... and is no longer under development. If you plan on using multiple OS's with this, the default file system is FAT32. it is generic and can be used on Linus, UNIX, Apple, and Windows based systems. AND Android BTW.

---

