---
title: "9.10 Window List Applet Not Raising Window"
date: 2010-02-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gozer42 on 2010-02-19
Fresh install of 9.10 shows buggy behavior for the 'Window List Applet' in the gtk panel.

Usually, clicking on a button in the window list applet does nothing at all.  It doesn't un-minimise it, set focus to the window, or bring it to the front.

In 8.10, the window was always raised immediately and given focus.

Sometimes it works, but I've not figured out the state in which it does.  I currently have 10 windows open, clicking through them all in the window list raises most of them, but on some nothing happens. 

Modifying the 'Window List Preferences' dialog does nothing to fix the problem.

I have checked System->Windows->Window Selection to 'Select windows when mouse moves over them'.  'Raise selected windows after an interval' is not selected.

Linux kai 2.6.31-19-generic #56-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jan 28 02:39:34 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

Any ideas?

---

### Post by alvertor on 2010-03-01
I am having the same problem. So what graphics card (driver) are you using? Do you have Compiz turned on?
I am having this problem on my main work system, but not on other 9.10 systems that I have.
It would be nice, possibly helpful, to try to identify some commonalities.

TKX

---

### Post by trubshac on 2010-05-13
I appreciate that this is an old thread, but I still have the same problem and it is still annoying me!  Did either of you ever find a solution to this?  (I am still on 9.10 and I have an nVidia G84 dual head video card).
Thanks

---

