---
title: "ATI Problems with Fiesty Startup"
date: 2007-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by YellowShadow on 2007-05-07
I followed Method 1 on the Unofficial ATI linux wiki and every time I restart my computer it gets passed the loading bar then my screen turns into a lighter black and nothing. Is there a way to fix this?

---

### Post by Praill on 2007-05-07
I had the same issue. I was able to fix it and posted my solution here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2537399#post2537399](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2537399#post2537399)

I promised Id make the process more clear and never got around to it. Id do it now but Im just about to go down for the night. If you have any problems post them here and I'll try to help you in the morning.

Alternatively, you can try to use the 'alternate cd' which is available for download from the same area the live cd is. I didnt try this method but my understanding is that the alternate cd uses a console installer so you wouldnt have this problem.

---

### Post by Nythain on 2007-05-07
have you tried booting in safe mode???
can you get into a command line???
if so, try
sudo nano /boot/grub/menu.lst
delete quiet splash (or splash quiet, dependin on how they appear) from the ubuntu entry you usually use to boot
control+x, y when asked if you want to save, enter to save as the current file, then possibly yes to answer if you want to overwrite the existing file.
sudo shutdown -r now
and try to boot back up... black screen at end of grub splash has been a common occuring problem lately...
if that doesnt help, at the black screen can you control+alt+f2 to a virtual console and login that way... then type sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop     sudo /etc/inti.d/gdm start and does it give you any errors... if not, try startx instead of sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start and see if it gives you any errors there.

i know i had one line wrong in my xorg.conf the other day after tinkering around with xinerama and twinview, and got to that black screen... when i tried startx it told me exactly what line and what problem was wrong

---

### Post by Praill on 2007-05-08
Oh, I assumed this was an install issue. Thanks for the instructions in case it isnt Nythain.

Is this an install issue or post install?

---

### Post by YellowShadow on 2007-05-08
Didn't work :(. I even tried to reconfigure x but nothing. Note that this happens **after** the Ubuntu logo shows up and the bar underneath fills up. (Before GDM starts where I have to log in)

---

### Post by YellowShadow on 2007-05-09
Bump

---

### Post by Praill on 2007-05-11
Did you visit my solution to the problem that i posted in posting #2 of this thread?
If you did you shouldnt even see a splash screen.

---

### Post by YellowShadow on 2007-05-11
I didn't see that one. I'll check it out

*Edit: So should I use the live cd to install? I used the alternate cd.*

---

### Post by YellowShadow on 2007-05-12
I tried what you said in Post #2 but the same thing happens. I tried installing the driver manually, that works but it kinda lags and I don't want to recompile it after kernel upgrades. Can anyone help me?

---

### Post by Praill on 2007-05-16
you shouldnt have to recompile if you install fglrx from the repos.. i dont think so anyways :)
umm did you change your xorg.conf to use fglrx instead of vesa?

---

### Post by strabes on 2007-05-16
Follow the instructions here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI#head-796aa4d6d0477c8ed722acef1878cc5626855ae3](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI#head-796aa4d6d0477c8ed722acef1878cc5626855ae3)

Make sure in your /etc/X11/xorg.conf you have the following lines: > Section "Extensions"
        Option      "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection

Note that it says "disable" not "0"

If you can't get it to work even after following the instructions on that website exactly, paste the output of this command: ```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by YellowShadow on 2007-05-16
Yes I did. I'm using ATI Radeon X1300. Just in case I haven't posted in the above posts.

---

### Post by strabes on 2007-05-17
Paste the output of this command: ```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

I have the Mobility X1400 so I had the exact problem you are having. Here's my xorg.conf if you would like to compare:> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
**	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0**
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
	Option	    "XkbVariant" "dvorak"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "SHMConfig" "true"
	Option	    "MinSpeed" ".1"
	Option	    "MaxSpeed" ".3"
	Option	    "AccelFactor" ".0017"
	Option	    "MaxTapTime" "150"
	Option	    "MaxDoubleTapTime" "150"
	Option	    "VertEdgeScroll" "1"
	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "1"
	Option	    "VertScrollDelta" "300"
	Option	    "HorizScrollDelta" "250"
	Option	    "BottomEdge" "4300"
	Option	    "RightEdge" "5250"
	Option	    "TapButton2" "2"
	Option	    "TapButton3" "3"
	Option	    "RTCornerButton" "0"
	Option	    "RBCornerButton" "0"
	Option	    "LTCornerButton" "0"
	Option	    "LBCornerButton" "0"
EndSection

[B]Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection[/B]

[B]Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection[/B]

[B]Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection[/B]

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

[B]Section "Extensions"
        Option      "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection[/B]

---

### Post by Praill on 2007-05-17
Maybe you should just use edgy until feisty is officially released. Right now it is still in beta and the new kernel uses creates more problems then just this one. My final straw was realizing the usb webcam I had wouldnt work with the new kernel in feisty like it did with the kernel in edgy.

To be quite honest i havent noticed any improvements in the new kernel... so why use it? Maybe some people ahve but I havent.

Anyways, if my instructions didnt work for you then I dont know what else to say. Make sure 'fglrx' is set as your driver in the device section for xorg.conf

---

### Post by myoungf1 on 2007-05-17
I have noticed that the new Xorg 7.2 in Feisty does not officially, and I use that term lightly, with the proprietary drivers from ATI.  I had several problems with the ATI drivers with Feisty, including direct rendering never working.  After a couple of weeks of work I gave up and went back to Edgy and reinstalled the proprietary drivers and used the wiki mentioned above to get direct rendering and now all is right with the world.  Hopefully with ATI open sourcing their drivers in the future we can get ATI open source drivers that work with Xorg 7.2.

---

### Post by YellowShadow on 2007-05-17
I never new that Fiesty was in BETA. I might just use Ubuntu Studio or something (I know that it uses Fiesty, but I don't need my ATI drivers there.)

---

### Post by myoungf1 on 2007-05-17
Feisty is not in beta.  It was officially released on April 18.  The next release is gusty gibbon which is coming out in a final release on October 18

---

### Post by YellowShadow on 2007-05-17
What Linux distribution would you recommend then?

---

### Post by myoungf1 on 2007-05-17
I went back a couple of days ago to 6.10 edgy eft.  The ATI drivers are supported under that Xorg version 7.1.  I also have an ATI 9250 card and now I have both 2d and 3d working under Edgy Eft with no problems.

---

### Post by Praill on 2007-05-25
> Hopefully with ATI open sourcing their drivers in the future we can get ATI open source drivers that work with Xorg 7.2.
I wouldnt hope too hard. One of the impacts DRM is going to have on the open source market is that newer hardware specs wont be released to the public or to "untrusted vendors". The best we may be able to hope for for a long time is crappy drivers 6-12 months after the hardwares released. Or maybe the DRM movement will get squahsed before it even gets off the ground. Who knows.. MS has the bank role to hold out for a long time.

---

