---
title: "9.10 freezes/locks up on first boot almost every day"
date: 2010-01-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rhauff on 2010-01-06
It gets stuck on the boot screen with the status bar, or on the loggin screen.  The only solution is to reset.  After that it is usually fine for the day and will reboot fine, it's a dual boot and my boys use windos on it a couple times a day also, that's why it's getting rebooted so much.

Any possible reasons for this?  Or, how can I kill the boot image and get a text based boot screen?  I tried Startupmanager, but it doesn't seem to work on 9.10.
Thanks

---

### Post by syncmasterpt on 2010-01-06
Hi!

I'm also debugging my boot times, and what you can do is to remove the splash and quiet options from your kernel boot line.

If you're using grub version 1, just edit the /boot/grub/menu.lst file and remove those words from the kernel line.

From ther you can see all the stuff that's happening.

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by rhauff on 2010-01-06
Isn't grub2 standard on 9.10?  This was a fresh install of 9.10 a couple months ago.  Would the directions be the same?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-01-06
> **rhauff said:**
> Isn't grub2 standard on 9.10?  This was a fresh install of 9.10 a couple months ago.  Would the directions be the same?

No, the directions are not the same. You need to edit /etc/default/grub, the following line, and then run <sudo update-grub>.

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash" --> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=""
```

If you don't want a permanent change, holding Shift key should invoke GRUB's menu, then you can edit the boot line by pressing 'e'.

---

### Post by rhauff on 2010-01-07
Thanks much, I'm watching kernel messages now during boot.  Hopefully I'll find the cause.

---

### Post by pingvins on 2010-01-07
I aplied the same thing, I used instructions here:
[http://unixlab.blogspot.com/2009/12/disabling-splash-screen-in-ubuntu-910.html](http://unixlab.blogspot.com/2009/12/disabling-splash-screen-in-ubuntu-910.html)

Now it boots up without problems, while it always stopped and froze on splash screen, I had to reset and ... and ... and ... But now it works!! Thank you guys so much!!

---

### Post by pingvins on 2010-01-07
_double post_[]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8626532#post8626532")

---

