---
title: "How do I recover from a freeze. Ubuntu 14.04"
date: 2014-08-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-01
When the system freezes nothing works. No keyboard commands have any effect except dropping into the command line with CTRL-ALT F2. If I go back it will still be frozen.

I have been running the reboot comand: Sudo reboot and restarting the whole system. Is there a quicker and better way to get the system up and running under the GUI?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-08-01
Possibly not, but you could try holding down the right hand **Alt-Gr key + Print-Screen + K** which should kill the xsession and get you back to a login-screen.  If that does not work any more, and I have no idea about it in 14.04, and it is a very long time since I have needed to use it, you probably have no other choice than the **sudo reboot** command you are using at the moment.

The bigger question, however, is why are you getting these freezes; have you any idea why it is happening in the first place?
What hardware are you using, particularly your graphic card, and the driver for that card?
Have you checked the memory chips in your machine? If not, run memtest86+ from the grub menu and leave it running for a few hours, overnight if possible, to see if any errors show.  Even one error found will show that you have a problem and need to change the faulty chip.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-08-01
ssh in from a different system and kill X/Windows. That will restart all the GUI stuff.  Of course, if you want to know what the problem is, check the process table and logs to see what is happening BEFORE the kill.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-01
> **TheFu said:**
> ssh in from a different system and kill X/Windows. That will restart all the GUI stuff.  Of course, if you want to know what the problem is, check the process table and logs to see what is happening BEFORE the kill.

As I have been able to drop out of the GUI and login via the command line it should be possible for me to see the data in logs.

Could you please suggest some command lines for checking the process table and logs.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-08-01
top
[http://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/02/11/linux-troubleshooting-101-log-files](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/02/11/linux-troubleshooting-101-log-files)

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-02
What should I do about these error messages? I ran the command even though the system has not crashed. 

> robins@robins-EP35-DS3L:/var/log$ tail -f syslog
Aug  2 13:54:06 robins-EP35-DS3L rtkit-daemon[3249]: Supervising 20 threads of 4 processes of 2 users.
Aug  2 13:54:06 robins-EP35-DS3L rtkit-daemon[3249]: Successfully made thread 23521 of process 23317 (n/a) owned by '1000' RT at priority 2.
Aug  2 13:54:06 robins-EP35-DS3L rtkit-daemon[3249]: Supervising 20 threads of 4 processes of 2 users.
Aug  2 13:54:06 robins-EP35-DS3L rtkit-daemon[3249]: Successfully made thread 23522 of process 23317 (n/a) owned by '1000' RT at priority 2.
Aug  2 13:54:06 robins-EP35-DS3L rtkit-daemon[3249]: Supervising 21 threads of 4 processes of 2 users.
Aug  2 13:54:06 robins-EP35-DS3L rtkit-daemon[3249]: Successfully made thread 23523 of process 23317 (n/a) owned by '1000' RT at priority 2.
Aug  2 13:54:06 robins-EP35-DS3L rtkit-daemon[3249]: Supervising 20 threads of 4 processes of 2 users.
Aug  2 13:58:40 robins-EP35-DS3L ddclient[1283]: WARNING:  file /etc/ddclient.conf, line 8: Invalid Value for keyword 'login' = ''
Aug  2 14:01:40 robins-EP35-DS3L kernel: [71627.324649] type=1400 audit(1406984500.947:209): apparmor="DENIED" operation="open" profile="/usr/lib/lightdm/lightdm-guest-session" name="/home/robins/.face" pid=5134 comm="unity-panel-ser" requested_mask="r" denied_mask="r" fsuid=118 ouid=1000
Aug  2 14:03:40 robins-EP35-DS3L ddclient[1283]: WARNING:  file /etc/ddclient.conf, line 8: Invalid Value for keyword 'login' = '

> # Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

protocol=dyndns2
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.com, web-skip='IP Address'
server=members.dyndns.org
login=
password=''

Note I do not use dyndns.org. What would be trying to use it? I know it as a substitute for a local fixed IP. I have looked at the network connection settings for my wired connection and I can not see any ref to dyndns.

The apparmor denial has led me to [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingApparmor](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingApparmor). Is there a simpler answer?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-08-02
I'd remove the ddclient package - then I'd figure out how it got installed if I didn't do it.  I've never heard of it being installed as a dependency for anything else - that would be odd.

---

