---
title: "12.04 boot halts when no monitor attached"
date: 2013-04-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jensk on 2013-04-17
I have e mediaserver based on an Intel D2700DC motherboard installed with ubuntu server 12.04.2 64bit. It is installed with Lubuntu dekstop but I have set it to only start LXDE/Lightdm manually.

When i boot the server i have to have a monitor attached. If I have no monitor attached it halts very early in the boot sequesce. So early that there is nothing in dmesg or other logs.

It seems like it is the first or second diskread after grub that halts - like if it is during the load of the kernel.

My problem is that since there is no monitor when the halts happens I am not able to diagnose it. Likewise if I attach a monitor the server boots normally.

I have had different option set in /etc/default/grub  under GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=""
like console=tty1 and nomodeset 
Now I have nothing cmdline options

I have run update-grub after setting or deleting the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="".

Any ideas at to what causes this behavior?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2013-04-18
Create a default xorg.conf file - do a forum search as there are already detailed posts on this.

Because you have installed a graphical desktop it is probably trying to autodetect the monitor settings at boot before continuing.

---

### Post by jensk on 2013-04-18
Hi David.
Thanks for your reply.

The graphic desktop works fine when i start it manually - IF i have a monitor attached on boot. 

The problem here is that the linux kernel halts on load IF I have no monitor attached to the output. 
This halt is so early in the boot that it cannot be logged as no logging in dmesg has started.

I have tried different settings in grub and in the bios but the result is the same - no boot if no monitor is attached.

---

### Post by jensk on 2013-04-18
So i found the solution in a google group.

In /etc/default grub there needs to be set the following parameters:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="vmalloc=256MB video=LVDS-1:d"

Run sudo update-grub

And the Intel d2700dc mobo can boot without a monitor attached

---

