---
title: "NVIDIA Settings &amp; Ubuntu 14.10; where to save xorg.conf?"
date: 2015-03-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by r2rX on 2015-03-21
Hello everyone,

I'm currently testing out Ubuntu 14.10 and i've installed the NVIDIA 346.47 proprietary blob. Within the NVIDIA-Settings control panel, i'm trying to save my X Server Display Configuration via Save to X Configuration file. Typically, i've always saved it to /etc/X11/xorg.conf ..... but despite doing that, the settings won't be restored on reboot of Ubuntu. Where am I meant to save the xorg.conf file, if not to /etc/X11 ?

I appreciate all the assistance. :)

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2015-03-21
That's the right place.  I have multiple questions.

1. Is the file gone after you reboot?  Is it there, but has been renamed to xorg.conf.mmddyyyy?

2. Where did you install the 346 driver from?  Did you download it directly from Nvidia or did you use the xorg-edgers PPA?

3. What's your graphics hardware?  This isn't a laptop with Optimus graphics (Intel + Nvidia), is it?

---

### Post by r2rX on 2015-03-22
Hi Keith,

To answer your questions:

1. The file is still there after reboot. Also, it is not renamed...it's still xorg.conf

2. I installed the driver from a PPA (not from NV directly). I refered to Michael Marley's PPA ( [https://launchpad.net/~mamarley/+archive/ubuntu/nvidia](https://launchpad.net/~mamarley/+archive/ubuntu/nvidia) ).

3. I'm using a GTX 780 on a desktop machine (so no Optimus present).

What's interesting is that i've used the same setup on Linux Mint and it's working fine....thus i'm suprised it's not the same on Ubuntu. :)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-03-22
Nvm: sorry

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2015-03-22
What setting(s) did you change that are not being used after rebooting?  Is that change present in your xorg.conf, but seems to be ignored, or is it that the change never makes it into xorg.conf?

---

### Post by efflandt on 2015-03-22
What are you trying to set or enable? If you are trying to enable coolbits that is now 8 for gpu/mem speed offset or 12 if you also want manual fan speed control in NVIDIA X Server Settings.

For example this is /etc/X11/xorg.conf that results from running **nvidia-xconfig --cool-bits=12** (the option starts with double dash) for my 1080p display without X running at the time (nvidia drivers have updated since I ran nvidia-xconfig):```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 346.22  (buildmeister@swio-display-x64-rhel04-12)  Tue Dec  2 11:26:02 PST 2014

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Coolbits" "12"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by r2rX on 2015-03-23
Primarily, I use the NVIDIA X Server Settings to configure my resolution (1920x1080) and refresh rate (120Hz) and use the 'Save to X configuration file' to save the settings and restore them on boot. The xorg.conf file is there, with the appropriate settings....just Ubuntu doesn't seem to load it (or the values in it) on boot.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-03-23
the kernel now directly deals with the driver, meaning xorg.conf now is no more mandatory.

---

### Post by r2rX on 2015-03-24
> **9d9 said:**
> the kernel now directly deals with the driver, meaning xorg.conf now is no more mandatory.

If that's the case, how do I configure the equivalent that the NVIDIA X Settings would apply to in the xorg.conf?

---

### Post by chris-lech on 2015-04-09
> **r2rX said:**
> If that's the case, how do I configure the equivalent that the NVIDIA X Settings would apply to in the xorg.conf?

Hmm, glad I found this thread. This seems to be my issue, I'm trying to manually edit the xorg.conf file with a monitor resolution and appears not to be applying. File is not changed, named the same or deleted on reboot. 

Pretty annoying as been stuck on 800x600 resolution and have not found a way to to fix it. 

Sorry I'm of no help...

---

### Post by chris-lech on 2015-04-10
Thought I'd reply letting anyone with the same issue to try and put a copy of the xorg.conf file in the following location instead /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/xorg.conf this worked for me....

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-04-10
> **chris-lech said:**
> 

Pretty annoying as been stuck on 800x600 resolution and have not found a way to to fix it. 

Sorry I'm of no help...

Maybe you use the wrong driver, there are several Nvidia driver in the repo. Try another one. 

Run 

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

Then reboot.

---

### Post by chris-lech on 2015-04-11
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Maybe you use the wrong driver, there are several Nvidia driver in the repo. Try another one. 

Run 

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

Then reboot.

Thanks, but no unfortunately it wasn't that simple... I tried a lot of things but turned out that if was to do with NVidia drivers not correctly reading the monitor EDID information, that solution involved editing the xorg.conf file and so the need for it to be read correctly and be in the right location. 

If any one comes across this issue, I followed the following guide shown here: [http://analogbit.com/2008/07/02/fixing-dvi-hdmi-displays-due-to-edid-bugs-on-nvidia/](http://analogbit.com/2008/07/02/fixing-dvi-hdmi-displays-due-to-edid-bugs-on-nvidia/)

Thanks.

---

### Post by r2rX on 2015-05-01
> **chris-lech said:**
> Thought I'd reply letting anyone with the same issue to try and put a copy of the xorg.conf file in the following location instead /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/xorg.conf this worked for me....

Hey guys. Sorry for the really bad delay in replying. I've not had much luck sorting this problem out but I do know that Ubuntu is reading the xorg.conf file from /etc/X11 and not  /usr/share/X11/ (at least on my end).

I tested enabling the Coolbits overclocking feature in the xorg.conf file. First I placed the file in /use/share/X11, rebooted and checked the nvidia settings to see if the feature was unlocked....it wasn't. I repeated the same process but using the /etc/X11 folder and it enabled overclocking in the nvidia settings. Ubuntu 15.04 is running on my rig now but the results apply to 14.10 as well.

There's another thing that caught my eye. When the settings are saved and I reboot, the login screen of Ubuntu is running at 120Hz for a few seconds....then the screen goes black and then displays the login screen at 60Hz.

Another thing to mention is that any settings I adjust in Compiz are reset on reboot.

To summarize, this is what i'm trying to solve:
1.) Make sure that the saved nvidia settings (xorg.conf) are loaded on boot (specifically to load/restore saved display settings; 1920x1080 @ 120Hz)
2.) Make sure that Compiz loads my settings to ensure that it is running at 120Hz as well (thus the monitor and display manager are running in sync @ 120Hz)

Point 2 isn't the main topic of the post but it is important to have the most fluid experience possible. I'm sure that i'm not the only person who uses an NVIDIA GPU with a 120Hz+ monitor.

I'm not really well-versed in this particular problem but is there a chance that Ubuntu/Unity, specifically, loads a setting that automatically resets display settings on boot? I suspect this due to the fact that when reaching the login screen it is running at 120Hz and then switches to 60Hz. Plus i've tested Linux Mint 17.1 MATE and Kubuntu 15.04 and they have no issues restoring the xorg.conf settings on boot.

NB: LM 17.1 MATE also uses Compiz....although it boots up with my screen at 1920x1080 @120Hz, Compiz doesn't restore my settings. Compiz is a separate issue but it'd be great to know how to solve it as well.

---

### Post by r2rX on 2015-10-28
Hey everyone,

I know it's been a few months since I last posted here but I wanted to update this thread with the solutions that i've finally understood in order to solve all the problems I shared in this thread. To answer the original enquiry in this thread, the answer is that Ubuntu does read the xorg.conf file when placed in /etc/X11 . To answer the questions of the last post I made in this thread, the following are the steps I took to solve the issues:

1.) If you are using the NVIDIA Proprietary driver, open Terminal and run 'sudo nvidia-xconfig'. This will create your xorg.conf file. Then run 'sudo nvidia-settings', click on the *X Server Display Configuration* tab and select your resolution and refresh rate. Once you've selected and applied the res/refresh rate (and you can see it's working), click on the *Save to X Configuration File* and select your xorg.conf file ( /etc/X11/xorg.conf is the default). The next step is to open Ubuntu's *System Settings*, open *Display* and click on 'Apply'. Once you've done this very last task, Ubuntu will load your selected resolution and refresh rate on start up.

2.) For Compiz to load your desired refresh rate on boot, open *CompizConfig Settings Manager* (download from Ubuntu Software Center or Synaptics if you have not installed it already). Once opened, click on the *Composite* button and make sure the 'Detect Refresh Rate' option is NOT checked.....make sure it is unchecked. You can manually change the value of your desired refresh rate in the box to have it run immediately. To ensure that value will run on startup, create a new entry in the *Startup Applications* with the following:

```
sh -c "sleep **X** && dconf write /org/compiz/profiles/unity/plugins/composite/refresh-rate "**Y**" &"
```

X being the time delay before the command is executed on startup and Y being the refresh rate....so mine looks as follows:

```
sh -c "sleep 2 && dconf write /org/compiz/profiles/unity/plugins/composite/refresh-rate "120" &"
```

So, to summarize, the xorg.conf file is read and working properly from the /etc/X11 folder. However, you need to open the NVIDIA Settings and manually apply the resolution and refresh rate you want AND THEN open the 'Displays' option in Ubuntu and just click 'Apply'. Once you do that, Ubuntu will boot with the intended resolution and refresh rate (I update the xorg.conf file, with the settings from the NVIDIA Settings just to make sure/habit).

.....and that's it! :) We shouldn't have to go through these hoops to get something this basic working but at least this solves the complaints I posted in this thread. Hope this helps others.

NB: For those that want to have the "smoothest" desktop experience possible, if you have a mouse running at 1000Hz poll rating, make sure to open *CompizConfig Settings Manager*, scroll down and click on *Mouse position polling* and set the value for *Mouse Poll Interval* to **1** (Please, for the love of your sanity, do **NOT** set this value to **0** :) ). With the monitor and Compiz-set refresh rate and poll rate working in tandum, you will have a smooth experience.

Lastly, the above applies up to Ubuntu 15.10 as well.

---

### Post by Fausto_Paiva on 2016-06-29
> **r2rX said:**
> Hey everyone,

I know it's been a few months since I last posted here but I wanted to update this thread with the solutions that i've finally understood in order to solve all the problems I shared in this thread. To answer the original enquiry in this thread, the answer is that Ubuntu does read the xorg.conf file when placed in /etc/X11 . To answer the questions of the last post I made in this thread, the following are the steps I took to solve the issues:

1.) If you are using the NVIDIA Proprietary driver, open Terminal and run 'sudo nvidia-xconfig'. This will create your xorg.conf file. Then run 'sudo nvidia-settings', click on the *X Server Display Configuration* tab and select your resolution and refresh rate. Once you've selected and applied the res/refresh rate (and you can see it's working), click on the *Save to X Configuration File* and select your xorg.conf file ( /etc/X11/xorg.conf is the default). The next step is to open Ubuntu's *System Settings*, open *Display* and click on 'Apply'. Once you've done this very last task, Ubuntu will load your selected resolution and refresh rate on start up.

2.) For Compiz to load your desired refresh rate on boot, open *CompizConfig Settings Manager* (download from Ubuntu Software Center or Synaptics if you have not installed it already). Once opened, click on the *Composite* button and make sure the 'Detect Refresh Rate' option is NOT checked.....make sure it is unchecked. You can manually change the value of your desired refresh rate in the box to have it run immediately. To ensure that value will run on startup, create a new entry in the *Startup Applications* with the following:

```
sh -c "sleep **X** && dconf write /org/compiz/profiles/unity/plugins/composite/refresh-rate "**Y**" &"
```

X being the time delay before the command is executed on startup and Y being the refresh rate....so mine looks as follows:

```
sh -c "sleep 2 && dconf write /org/compiz/profiles/unity/plugins/composite/refresh-rate "120" &"
```

So, to summarize, the xorg.conf file is read and working properly from the /etc/X11 folder. However, you need to open the NVIDIA Settings and manually apply the resolution and refresh rate you want AND THEN open the 'Displays' option in Ubuntu and just click 'Apply'. Once you do that, Ubuntu will boot with the intended resolution and refresh rate (I update the xorg.conf file, with the settings from the NVIDIA Settings just to make sure/habit).

.....and that's it! :) We shouldn't have to go through these hoops to get something this basic working but at least this solves the complaints I posted in this thread. Hope this helps others.

NB: For those that want to have the "smoothest" desktop experience possible, if you have a mouse running at 1000Hz poll rating, make sure to open *CompizConfig Settings Manager*, scroll down and click on *Mouse position polling* and set the value for *Mouse Poll Interval* to **1** (Please, for the love of your sanity, do **NOT** set this value to **0** :) ). With the monitor and Compiz-set refresh rate and poll rate working in tandum, you will have a smooth experience.

Lastly, the above applies up to Ubuntu 15.10 as well.

Thank you so much man! It really works! It is incredibly simple... It also applies to Ubuntu 16.04.

---

### Post by thomasj369 on 2017-02-13
> **Fausto_Paiva said:**
> Thank you so much man! It really works! It is incredibly simple... It also applies to Ubuntu 16.04.

Really not so simple. I installed 16.04 LTS on my desktop that has a nvidia gforce GT 730 gui. I had this same problem when I first installed Ubuntu 14.04 LTS. I tried everything to get the settings for a dual monitor mode to save and boot up to my saved settings. i finally gave up on it and just accepted the fact that I had to re-set my settings on each boot. After a couple of days, and I don't know what had done, it just started booting to my new configuration. Now, after this fresh install of 16.04 LTS, i am wrestling with this same thing again.

When I saw the last step in the above fix, I thought for sure that that was the answer and that the current settings had to be getting saved as a new secret default file that only Ubuntu knew about. Saving the current settings with the displays save button would certainly save my settings to this secret file. Unfortunately, that is not the case. My system still boots in a default 1024x768 resolution no matter what files I have modified. In all the documentation that I have read so far, the order that the Nvidia driver loads it's settings is to first load from the ~/.nvidia-settings-rc for the user's parameters and then loads from /etc/X11/xorg.conf for some settings that are not in /.nvidia-settings-rc. If this is true, it's not working for me and the only explanation for not initially booting up with the defaults set in these two files is that either Ubuntu or the Nvidia driver is using a secret place to retrieve boot up settings for the gui.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2017-02-13
Since the thread title references 14.10 which is no longer supported, I'm closing this thread. Those experiencing problems on supported Ubuntu versions, please create a new thread.

Thanks.

---

