---
title: "11.04 freezing after login"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shruubi on 2011-04-28
today i upgraded my eeepc to 11.04. once i restarted my computer i get up to the login screen and can login with no problems. the login music plays and then my computer freezes. sometimes my background will change to the one i set myself, other times it stays on ubuntu's standard one, i can't move my mouse at all. i have tried logging in as classic and classic with no effects with no success.

any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-04-29
Same here... my guess is there's a kernel bug in 11.04 Ubuntu the developers never got around to fixing that results in a lockup shortly after login.

Poor quality control by Canonical!!! I've never seen this in Ubuntu before.

---

### Post by robo_er on 2011-04-29
Same here :(

---

### Post by cdo on 2011-04-29
All of which reminds me of something  my NASA neighbor told me years ago . 'Never" install an operating system until it's been on the market for a few months .   :-)

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-04-29
My netbook has a Via C-7 processor. It ran Linux Mint 10 with no freezing on 1 GB of RAM and its running Oz Unity Debut 1.0 Lucid LTS with no problems!

Natty is unacceptably slow on my Pentium 4 laptop.

With several year old hardware, things should work. That is why I downgraded on my netbook.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-04-29
Maybe they'll fix all the bugs by Oneiric Ocelot.

We'll see.

---

### Post by Fillado on 2011-04-29
Hands up who's using a netbook (probably an Eee PC) connecting to a wireless network with an Atheros AR2427 chip?

Problem has been there since the beta due to a bug introduced in kernel 2.6.38 and has been fixed in the 2.6.38.3 kernel. Ubuntu 11.04 is on the 2.6.38.2 kernel.

Further reading:

[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.kernel.stable/7414](http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.kernel.stable/7414)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/735431](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/735431)


Only way to fix it is to disable wireless via hardware keys prior to logging in and then delete all your wireless networks to stop Ubuntu from attempting to connect to them. THEN wait for Canonical to push out a newer kernel and update to it via ethernet.

---

### Post by zynex on 2011-04-29
I have the same problem with 11.04 final. It hangs lots of times when  trying to login, not sure why yet. Sometimes everything freezes, and  sometime it just stops after the "hard drive icon" fades in. But mouse  still works. This was not an issue with the latest beta release.

Anyone know where to find the last beta release? :)

---

### Post by zynex on 2011-04-29
Just noticed that this post was for Ubuntu, but there is problem with Kubuntu also :(

---

### Post by anjanesh on 2011-05-10
Just updated to 11.04 - same issue - hangs just after login. Is there any quick solution to this ?
EDIT : Had to login via safemode to see the GUI

---

### Post by Anglagard on 2011-05-12
I fixed my login system freeze-ups by disabling CDEMU deamon /usr/lib/cdemu-daemon/cdemu-daemon.session on Ubuntu/Gnome application startup list by using safemode.

If you don't have CDEMU you can try disabling each application on the startup list and see which of them is causing a problem.
I logged out of safemode and back in for each app I disabled to find out the exact application that created the freeze-up.

There is another thread on this topic [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10804306")

Good luck!
Orion Vianna
My [blog at hackingmule.com]("http://blog.hackingmule.com")

---

