---
title: "HDD: 889G/925G = 100% used"
date: 2009-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Povilas on 2009-07-27
I have upgraded to 9.04 recently and one of the HDDs is now reporting low on space (not sure if those two things are related). I have deleted some files to free up space, but look at this:
> 
$ df -h
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1             925G  889G     0 100% /mnt/hdd

fsck found no errors.
Any ideas?

---

### Post by Povilas on 2009-07-28
I have proceeded to free up disk space on the HDD and I finally got the OS to report some unoccupied space. Granted, it still doesn't exactly make a lot of sense, but at least I now know that HDD is still usable:
> 
/dev/sda1             925G  849G   30G  97% /mnt/hdd

I figure since I use ext3 the unreported gigabytes are used for journaling?

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2009-07-28
linux keeps about 5% reserved, not letting you use it.

this is the price we pay for not needing to ever defrag.

889 / 925 = 96.1%

you got lucky and snuck an extra 1.1% past it :D

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-07-28
This isn't a system partition so some of the guide doesn't apply, but the following link will take you to a wiki that helps analyze where the free space has gone (if you don't know). Unemptied trash, backups to the wrong partition, and large log files are often the culprits. On a non-system partition, some of these of course are less likely than others.
[RecoverLostDiskSpace]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoverLostDiskSpace")
And the posts that preceded it:
[HOWTO: Recover Lost Disk Space ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1122670")
[How To: Disk Full? - Check Your Trash]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=898573")

---

