---
title: "Changing the UUID to ntfs partition"
date: 2008-07-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by quanter on 2008-07-25
Hi everyone.

tune2fs change UUID of ext2/3 partition:

#tune2fs /dev/sda<number of partition> -U random

I didn't find information about ntfs.

How can I change uuid of ntfs partition?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-25
I don't know offhand a method to do this which wouldn't jeopardize the data on the disk, but pehaps you could tell us why you want to do this so we can consider other options. These would include the use of LABELS or /dev if you are thinking about fstab entries.

To label an ntfs partition, you can run this command:
```

sudo aptitiude install ntfsprogs
sudo ntfslabel /dev/**sdaX** **LABELNAME** 

```

To make the change in fstab, change "/dev/sdaX" or "UUID=1234" with:
LABEL=*LABELNAME*

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-07-25
> **quanter said:**
> 
.........
How can I change uuid of ntfs partition?

My guess is you can't, it seems to change if you resize/create a NTFS partition, so it may be auto-generated by things like creation time and size.

---

### Post by quanter on 2008-07-25
**drs305**, **dcstar** big thanks for you answer. But I am interested in changing UUID, not label.

I have 7 ntfs partitions: /dev/sda1, /deav/sda7, /dev/sdb1, /dev/sdb5, /dev/sdb6, /dev/sdb7 ... /dev/sdb5 and /dev/sdb6 have one uuid. I want to change uuid of one of them.

In rescue mode of Fedora 9, it write:

> Multiple devices on your system are labelled 01C6F3183DE7BD80.
Label across devices must be unique for your system to function properly.

Please fix this problem and restart the installation process.

I looked uuid of partitions and noticed devices with same uuid - /dev/sdb5 and /dev/sdb6:

> 
[root@localhost quanter]# blkid /dev/sdb1
/dev/sdb1: UUID="8614F89F14F89401" LABEL="WINDOWS SERVER 2003" TYPE="ntfs" 
[root@localhost quanter]# blkid /dev/sdb5
/dev/sdb5: UUID="01C6F3183DE7BD80" LABEL="FILMS" TYPE="ntfs" 
[root@localhost quanter]# blkid /dev/sdb6
/dev/sdb6: UUID="01C6F3183DE7BD80" LABEL="VIDEO" TYPE="ntfs" 
[root@localhost quanter]# blkid /dev/sdb7
/dev/sdb7: UUID="DCB7A7388995AC8A" LABEL="RESERV" TYPE="ntfs" 

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-25
Unless there is a command to change the UUID, which I haven't found, a method to change the uuid would be to copy the data on one of the two partitions to a backup source, delete and recreate the partition, and then copy the data back. Gparted can be used to delete and create a new paritition, which should have a new and unique uuid.

EDIT YEARS LATER:  ;-)
You can use tune2fs to change the UUID of a partition. The example is for a random UUID. You can also set a specific UUID (see 'man tune2fs' ):  
```
sudo tune2fs -U random /dev/sdXY
```

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-07-25
> **quanter said:**
> **drs305**, **dcstar** big thanks for you answer. But I am interested in changing UUID, not label.
........

This might work (on unmounted FS) - but be careful and make sure you have a backup!:
```

sudo vol_id /dev/hdaX ID_FS_UUID= # set UUID - only if fs is closed
```

---

### Post by quanter on 2008-07-25
**drs305**, **dcstar**, thanks for quick help!

Problem was fixed.

```

sudo vol_id /dev/hdaX ID_FS_UUID= # set UUID - only if fs is closed
```

This doesn't work. It don't change uuid.

I followed drs305's and dcstar's advices: I deleted partition /dev/sdb6 (after > to copy the data on one of the two partitions to a backup source), and recreate new. UUID was chanched on /dev/sdb6. Problem with same UUID was fixed.

---

### Post by rbmorse on 2008-07-25
Now...the question is how did you end up with two partitions with the same UUID?  That's not supposed to happen...

---

### Post by quanter on 2008-07-25
**rbmorse**, I dont'now, how it's possible, but it's fact. Two partition have had same UUID (see upper /dev/sdb5, /dev/sdb6).
Perhaps, answer in operations of distribution? What does UUID set (I think only Linux (then detected devices))?
Perhaps, there was a error during installation earlier version Linux (I used Fedora), its UUID were wrong. It is (same UUID) critical only with Fedora 9.

---

### Post by edsena on 2008-11-03
Hi Folks,

If one uses gparted to copy/paste an existing partition, the new one will have the same uuid of the original one. 

Best Regards,
Ed.

---

### Post by billbear on 2009-08-12
Use microsoft's tool under windows:
[http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb897436.aspx](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb897436.aspx)
It can change the last 8 digits of the uuid of ntfs, or all 8 digits of the uuid of vfat. (Shows as Volume serial Number when you type 'dir' in a windows command line)

---

### Post by GMHilltop on 2010-06-01
I am quite sure this is the problem I am running into.  I have created XP partition - imaged it - and then dropped that image on 2 separate partitions.    

The result, is that I have 2 partitions with the same UUID Number and when I try to boot into the first one on the disk, I am getting an &quot;autochk program not found - skipping autocheck&quot; error and the system reboots to the same thing over and over again.    

I threw the windows MBR back into the MBR using the dd command and that partition boots just fine.  

Reinstall Grub2, and I get the same error.  Is there a way to change the UUID without having to reinstall EVERYTHING again (drivers etc, etc) so that I can get this thing to boot with Grub2?  Here is what my 40_custom file looks like:[INDENT]#!/bin/sh
exec tail -n +3 $0
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.

menuentry "Paul's OS" {
    insmod ntfs
    parttool (hd0,1) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,5) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,7) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,2) hidden+
    parttool (hd0,3) hidden+
    parttool (hd0,6) hidden+
    parttool (hd0,8) hidden+
    set root='(hd0,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set d091001490ffff2a
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}

menuentry "Anna's OS" {
    insmod ntfs
    parttool (hd0,2) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,6) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,7) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,1) hidden+
    parttool (hd0,3) hidden+
    parttool (hd0,5) hidden+
    parttool (hd0,8) hidden+
    set root='(hd0,2)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set d091001490ffff2a
    drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
    chainloader +1
}

menuentry 'Ubuntu, 10.04 LTS 32Bit' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    parttool (hd0,1) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,2) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,3) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,5) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,6) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,7) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,8) hidden-
    set root='(hd0,3)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 709810c2-cc30-48ea-9b52-446207f52bfb
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic root=UUID=709810c2-cc30-48ea-9b52-446207f52bfb ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
}

menuentry "" {
insmod ext2
}

menuentry "Reboot" {
reboot
}
menuentry "" {
set root=
}
menuentry "<====Entries Below Are For System Maintenance & Testing=====>" {
set root=
}
menuentry "" {
set root=
}

menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,3)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 709810c2-cc30-48ea-9b52-446207f52bfb
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "" {
set root=
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, 10.04 LTS (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    parttool (hd0,1) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,2) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,3) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,5) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,6) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,7) hidden-
    parttool (hd0,8) hidden-
    set root='(hd0,3)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 709810c2-cc30-48ea-9b52-446207f52bfb
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.32-21-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic root=UUID=709810c2-cc30-48ea-9b52-446207f52bfb ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
}






[/INDENT]

---

### Post by Cato2 on 2010-08-15
Since I didn't find any good HOWTOs on this.... Here are some notes on how I changed the UUID (known as Volume ID in Windows) on an NTFS volume under Ubuntu - should work in any version, I used 8.04. 

**This is not a tutorial for newbies, as it involves hex editing - make sure you know about disk partitions vs. disks, and exactly what yours are called! Take backups and have a live CD ready just in case.  You need to understand the concept of hex editing the disk.**

The NTFS Boot Record for an NTFS partition (volume) is held in sector 0 on the NTFS volume.  This 512 byte sector contains the 8-byte volume ID at offset 48h - the last 4 bytes of this are shown by the Windows "dir" command as the volume serial number. The 8 bytes are stored as a 64-bit word, little endian, i.e. least significant byte is first on disk.

Full details of the NTFS Boot record are at [http://mirror.href.com/thestarman/asm/mbr/NTFSBR.htm](http://mirror.href.com/thestarman/asm/mbr/NTFSBR.htm).  Note that this sector is also known as the VBR, and the location of the Volume ID / UUID is different in FAT32 volumes.

It can be important to change this after doing an exact copy of partition with gparted, or copying it with ddrescue, dd, etc, before booting Windows, if the original NTFS volume is also going to be present in the system.  Otherwise Windows will probably complain.

The actual values don't matter - I changed the first and last bytes of the 8-byte value to '99' to make it obvious.

Under Ubuntu, vol_id under Linux will display the full 8 byte volume ID, calling it the UUID.  However there is no simple tool to change the volume ID - you must edit the boot sector - install hexcurses or ghex, copy sector with dd, back it up, edit it and then replace with dd. 

Here are the commands I used - adjust these as required, and in particular change the mount point and /dev/sdX2 part to refer to your NTFS partition as seen by Ubuntu.   Be sure to use 'fdisk -ul' and mount the volume to check that it's the right one (then be sure to **unmount** the volume before editing its boot sector).  ntfslabel and 'fsarchiver probe' are also useful (latter shows a great summary).  
```

sudo -i
umount /old/mnt/win 
vol_id /dev/sdX2                                  # check old UUID

# Get the NTFS boot sector and back it up
dd if=/dev/sdX2 of=ntfs-bootsect-old-winxp.bin count=1 bs=512
cp ntfs-bootsect-old-winxp.bin ntfs-bootsect-old-winxp.bin.original
# edit it
ghex2 ntfs-bootsect-old-winxp.bin &
hd ntfs-bootsect-old-winxp.bin              # hex dump

# Put the new boot sector back on the NTFS volume
dd if=ntfs-bootsect-old-winxp.bin of=/dev/sdX2 count=1 bs=512
vol_id /dev/sdb2

```

Under Windows, the [VolumeID]("http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb897436.aspx") tool from Sysinternals is good way to change last 4 bytes of volume id, but it probably doesn't help if Windows itself is complaining about a duplicate volume ID.

---

### Post by GMHilltop on 2010-08-15
Thanks for that Cato2.

I haven't used ghex2 before, but when I get a chance I'll give it a go.


> **Cato2 said:**
> This 512 byte sector contains the 8-byte volume ID at offset 48h - the last 4 bytes of ...

I am assuming that this is a location as viewed using ghex2 - is that correct?

Per chance does anyone have any screen shots of what it is that this looks like using the program, and can it be run using Ubuntu 10.04LTS ?

Thanks

---

### Post by Cato2 on 2010-08-16
> **GMHilltop said:**
> Thanks for that Cato2.

I haven't used ghex2 before, but when I get a chance I'll give it a go.

I am assuming that this is a location as viewed using ghex2 - is that correct?

The offset is the same regardless of which hex editor you use, but ghex2 is a nice GUI based editor.  You can see the offset (from start of file you are editing) at the bottom left of the disk. For this offset of 48h (48 hex), scroll to the line that reads 00000040 on the left - each line has 16 bytes i.e 16 groups of 2 hex digits each.  Move the cursor to the 8th group (byte), the offset should be 48 at bottom left.  Then edit bytes 48 through 4F - I just changed 48 and 4F to new values, e.g. 99.

You will need to know hexadecimal a little to be safe editing binary files in hex - see Wikipedia, it's quite easy.
> 
Per chance does anyone have any screen shots of what it is that this looks like using the program, and can it be run using Ubuntu 10.04LTS ?

I don't have a screenshot, but google for ghex editing and I'm sure you will find some.  It's in the repositories for 8.04LTS, so it's probably still in 10.04 - try ```
aptitude install ghex
``` - the actual program you run is called "ghex2".

By the way, having done all this I found that Windows XP SP3 didn't complain about duplicate partitions, but it **did** see them as existing partitions.  That's because it uses an entirely different "partition signature" mechanism to uniquely identify disks, as well as this one - if the same partition signature re-appears, you get the same disk letter e.g. C:.  Since I wanted one of the new cloned partitions to be C:, it was annoying that Windows forced the old one to be C: - so I forced all partitions on both disks to have new signatures, allowing the Windows system/boot disk (new cloned partition) to become C:.

Not sure why you need to change the UUID, but if it's because of cloning a disk you may want to look at these tips - you can force all partitions in disk to have a new partition signature by changing the Disk ID (aka NT disk signature), which is at the disk not partition level.  It's held in the MBR, and is a 4 byte quantity.  The technique for editing it is very similar but you would dd 512 bytes from /dev/sdX (i.e. sector 0 of whole disk.)  See these links for more:

[http://www.goodells.net/multiboot/partsigs.htm](http://www.goodells.net/multiboot/partsigs.htm) Great article on partition signatures] - based on the 4-byte Disk ID (in the MBR, offset 01B8 - see [[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_boot_record#Disk_identity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_boot_record#Disk_identity)

Generally, should *not* let old-Windows see the new-Windows on first boot after cloning, and vice versa.  Hence disconnect the old disk when booting for first time with the cloned new disk.

To fix this if old disk was not disconnected, or new disk was present when booting old windows - change the disk-ID on both of the the disks to new values, causing all the partition signatures to change, hence losing the stored drive letters (which are tied to partition signatures).

[http://www.tomshardware.co.uk/forum/247118-14-hard-drive-boot](http://www.tomshardware.co.uk/forum/247118-14-hard-drive-boot) - Similar steps on Tomshardware

---

### Post by GMHilltop on 2010-10-28
Ok, THIS I got to work for me - Hopefully it helps others as well.

First credit where credit is due - I got the help I was looking for here:

[Changing / Modifying an NTFS partitions UUID using dd]("http://www.linux.com/community/blogs/howto-modify-uuid-for-an-ntfs-partition.html#comment-3322")

Thank You very much to Simon Williams for taking the time to respond  (See the comments to Adam's original post there).  I hope everyone here  finds this as useful.

Here is The Code used:

```
sudo dd if=/dev/urandom of=/dev/[ntfspartition] bs=8 count=1 seek=9
```

[COLOR=Red]**!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WARNING WARNING WARNING !!!!!!!!!!!**[/COLOR]
For [ntfspartition] YOU MUST make sure you Identify the PROPER partition!!
ie:  sda1   or   sda2   or  sdb1  or  sdb2  or  sdc1  or sdc2   etc etc etc.
**DO NOT** put sda in there or you will SCREW your MBR !
Also you will want to run:  sudo blkid to make SURE you are modifying the proper partition.
DO NOT miss any part of the code above or you'll risk modifying more than just the UUID
**also posted at the above link with regard to the above code:**
Be warned that you can cause data loss ON ANY DISK CONNECTED TO YOUR  MACHINE if you specify the wrong disk or partition, or if the partition  you specify turns out to not be the one you were expecting. Disks of the  "new" form /dev/sda (rather than the old /dev/hda, etc) have  unpredictable ordering. Running this on a non-NTFS partition, or worse,  the entire disk (e.g. /dev/sda rather than /dev/sda1) will mess things  up very badly._** YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED. **_
[COLOR=Red]!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! END OF WARNING !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!![/COLOR]

as an example of the the code to be used --- if I wanted to modify the UUID of the 1st partition of the first hard drive _**IN MY SYSTEM**_ this is what I would type:

sudo dd if=/dev/urandom of=/dev/sda1 bs=8 count=1 seek=9

to do the 2nd partition of the first hard drive it would be:

sudo dd if=/dev/urandom of=/dev/sda2 bs=8 count=1 seek=9

**(Again - best verify what the system sees _IN YOUR SYSTEM_ by typing in Sudo blkid)**

Simon Williams gives a very nice breakdown as to what each piece of the  code does for those who are interested (Again - it is in the comments to  the original post there).
I think it is the 11th comment that starts off with "dd explained"
Comment 14 by Simon Williams that starts off with "written by Simon Williams, October 13, 2010
Yey, now that I can login again... :S "
gives even further detail to this part of the code:
/dev/urandom

Again Thanks again to Simon Williams for the assistance.  He was very professional and courteous!

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-10-29
This script will check if the partition you have specified actually is a non-corrupt NTFS partition before replacing the UUID with a new randomised one:

```
#!/bin/bash

# Script to change the UUID of a NTFS partition with some protection for non-expert users
# to prevent them stuffing up something.
#
# By David Clayton, 27/10/2010
#
# Based on original idea at:
# http://www.linux.com/community/blogs/howto-modify-uuid-for-an-ntfs-partition.html
#

# Run with <sudo ./ntfs-uuid /dev/whatever-the-NTFS-partition-is>
# Requires ntfs-3g package installed.

###### check whether user is root
if [ $(whoami) != "root" ];
then 
   echo  Please use \"sudo\" or become \"root\" to run this script. >&2;
   exit 1;
fi;

# Is partition NTFS?
`ntfs-3g.probe --readonly $1 2>$1`;
if [ $? -ne 0 ] ; then
 echo "Not a NTFS partition - exiting - please check your partitions CAREFULLY!";
 exit 1;
fi;

echo "Hooray! it is a NTFS partition - now patching UUID of "$1
sudo dd if=/dev/urandom bs=80 count=1 | xxd -l 80 -c 8 | tail -1 | xxd -r - $1
#sudo dd if=/dev/urandom of=$1 bs=8 count=1 seek=9 2>$1
echo "Log out of this terminal to see new UUID"

exit 0

```

I used my original patch code because when I was testing with the other (commented out) code I ended up with a corrupted NTFS partition - I don't know why it happened but the other code didn't do this, you can make your own choice.

Save the script as something like "ntfs-uuid" (make it executable) and run as:

```
sudo ntfs-uuid /dev/your-ntfs-partition-designation
```

All previous warnings and caveats about having backups apply.

---

### Post by CSBlueChip on 2010-11-07
```

#!/bin/bash

set -e

#. inc.error_codes
ERR_NEEDROOT=1
ERR_NOUSER=2
ERR_NOTROOT=3
ERR_BADDEVICE=4

#. inc.need_root
if [ ! ${UID} = 0 ];then
  echo "You need to be root for this operation"
  exit ${ERR_NEEDROOT}
fi

. inc.get_timestamp
TS=`date +%Y%m%d_%H%M%S`

DEV=$1

# make sure we have a device name
if [ x${DEV} = x ]; then
  echo "Use: $0 device (Eg. /dev/sda1)"
  echo "Use: tree /dev/disk to list connected drives"
  exit ${ERR_BADDEVICE}
fi

# make sure device is NTFS
ntfs-3g.probe --readonly ${DEV}
if [ $? -ne 0 ]; then
  echo "${DEV} is not an writeable NTFS partition!"
  exit ${ERR_BADDEVICE}
fi

# Ensure drive is not mounted
if [ `mount | grep ${DEV} | wc -l` -ne 0 ];then
  umount ${DEV}
  if [ $? -ne 0 ]; then
    echo "Unable to unmount drive - bailing!"
    exit ${ERR_BADDEVICE}
  fi
fi

# Grab volume details
set `vol_id $1 | sed s/.*=//g`
FS_USAGE=$1
FS_TYPE=$2
FS_VERSION=$3
FS_UUID=$4
FS_UUID_ENC=$5
FS_LABEL=$6
FS_LABEL_ENC=$7
FS_LABEL_SAFE=$8

# tell the user whatwe found
echo -n "${DEV} : ${FS_USAGE}/${FS_TYPE} v${FS_VERSION} "
echo    "= \"${FS_LABEL}\" / ${FS_UUID}"

# double check ntfs
if [ ! x${FS_TYPE} = xntfs ]; then
  echo "2nd NTFS check failed"
  exit ${ERR_BADDEVICE}
fi

# pick some filenames
BUDIR=backup.bootsectors
mkdir ${BUDIR}
BSFN_BASE=${BUDIR}/`echo ${DEV}|sed 's/\//\_/g'`_${FS_LABEL}_${FS_UUID}_${TS}
BSFN_OLD=${BSFN_BASE}.bin
BSFN_NEW=${BSFN_BASE}.edit

# grab the boot sector
dd if=${DEV} of=${BSFN_OLD} count=1 bs=512
echo "Original bootsector saved as: ${BSFN_OLD}"

# isolate the UUID
set `xxd -p -c 512 -u ${BSFN_OLD} |\
     sed 's/\(.\{144\}\)\(.\{16\}\)\(.*\)/\1\ \2\ \3/'`
BS_PRE=$1
BS_UUID=$2
BS_POST=$3

# make it big-endian
BS_UUID_INV=`echo ${BS_UUID} |\
  sed 's/\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)/\8\7\6\5\4\3\2\1/'`
echo "Old UUID (VolumeID): "${BS_UUID_INV}

# get new UUID
VALID=0
while [ ${VALID} = 0 ]; do
  read -p "New UUID (VolumeID): " X
  NEW=`echo ${X} | sed 's/[^A-F0-9]//g'`
  LEN=`echo -n ${NEW} | wc -c`
  if [ ${LEN} = 16 ]; then
    VALID=1
  else
    echo "Bad UUID (VolumeID): "${NEW}
  fi
done

# build the new bootsector
cp ${BSFN_OLD} ${BSFN_NEW}
NEW_INV=`echo ${NEW} |\
  sed 's/\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)\(..\)/\8\7\6\5\4\3\2\1/'`
echo "48:"${NEW_INV} | xxd -r - ${BSFN_NEW}

# get permission to write back to device
OK=0
while [ ${OK} = 0 ]; do
  read -p "Enter 'Yes' to write new bootsector: " X
  if [ x${X} = xYes ]; then
    OK=1
  else
    echo "...or hit ^C to bail"
  fi
done

# write back
dd if=${BSFN_NEW} of=${DEV} count=1 bs=512
echo "written!"

echo "You *MUST* now *either*"
echo "  a) reboot the machine"
echo "  b) disconnect then reconnect the drive"
echo "to force the kernel to recache the new bootsector"


```

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-11-07
> **CSBlueChip said:**
> 
.........

If this keeps up someone might create a script to not only safely change NTFS UUIDs, but FAT and EXT2 ones as well (hint hint.....)   ;-)

---

### Post by mousethief on 2011-05-13
> **drs305 said:**
> I don't know offhand a method to do this which wouldn't jeopardize the data on the disk, but pehaps you could tell us why you want to do this so we can consider other options. These would include the use of LABELS or /dev if you are thinking about fstab entries.

To label an ntfs partition, you can run this command:
```

sudo aptitiude install ntfsprogs
sudo ntfslabel /dev/**sdaX** **LABELNAME** 

```To make the change in fstab, change "/dev/sdaX" or "UUID=1234" with:
LABEL=*LABELNAME*

You so totally and completely and 100% rock. Thank you thank you thank you.

Alex

---

