---
title: "Is 14.04.01 fglrx package 100% compatible with 14.04 LTS?"
date: 2016-09-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by windflash on 2016-09-26
I've wasted two weeks diving in this whole mess with AMD proprietary drivers. It's been all about the sorrow and struggling of a fresh-new ubuntu user simply getting plain, basic stuff to work.

And after I finally figured out where are the download links for the packages on launchpad (genius, am I not?...) I want to know before I reinstall ubuntu to another version for the ~10th time -- is  [this]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/2:15.201-0ubuntu0.14.04.1") package going to work as good on 14.04.05, as it will on 14.04.01? Or should I stick with 14.04.01 and never see the installation window again, 'till AMD will release new drivers? 

I mean, it will sure work on 14.04.01, right?
I understand how unnecessary this question is, but it will sure save me a lot of time with the kind of Internet connection that I have.

For question-preventing reasons: I am using 2011 year's laptop with Intel/AMD switchable graphics. I simply want Catalyst to switch cards while using AMD one to it's full extent.

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-09-26
Hello!

14.04.1 would be fine to stick with.  14.04.5 uses the same X Server as 16.04 -- and fglrx will not work with that version.

Unless you have a GCN 1.2 or GCN 1.3 GPU (support for GCN 1.0 and 1.1 are coming, if it's not here yet) you will have to use the Radeon driver if you move to 16.04.  The AMDGPU and AMDGPU-Pro drivers won't work with pre-GCN GPUs.  Pre-GCN GPUs simply don't have the necessary hardware technology.  There won't be another fglrx moving forward it seems.  That is, when all is said and done, an HD 7000 series (not all, however) will be the farthest you can go back with AMDGPU/AMDGPU-Pro.  But the Radeon driver is getting better by leaps and bounds.  Because the Linux community clamoured for an open source driver environment from AMD, we're getting it.  But that means a lot of road construction and traffic jams.  In the end there will be the open source Radeon and AMDGPU drivers and the open-source-based AMDGPU-Pro driver.  -Pro has the proprietary goodies, but is based on AMDGPU.  AMD is expending a lot of resources for 6.3% of the PC market.  Rather than being an indication that AMD doesn't care, it's an indication that they are going out on a limb to support Linux.  But it's a very rough road right now.

If you have an HD 7000 or better in that laptop as an AMD/Intel hybrid, the road ahead is foggy. AMD managed to get it working with fglrx.  I don't know how it will go with AMDGPU/AMDGPU-Pro.

So, stick with 14.04.1 right now.  fglrx gives you the ability to switch -- but not on the fly.  You have to reboot.

If you are having trouble installing fglrx pre-14.04.5, please refer to the Community ATI Driver link in my signature.  If you have any questions, of course, come back and let us know.

---

### Post by windflash on 2016-09-27
If I downgrade server to utopic (1.16?...) with this command:
```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-lts-utopic libqt5gui5  libgles1-mesa-lts-utopic libgles2-mesa-lts-utopic  libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-utopic libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-utopic:i386  libglapi-mesa-lts-utopic:i386 libegl1-mesa-drivers-lts-utopic
```
Will that work? Because I remember how it didn't on 14.04.5 when I used simple 
```
apt-get install fglrx
```
I mean, it worked, but only untill the installation -- immediately after it gave me ```
X Error of failed request:  BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation
``` when I tried to fglrxinfo, and I suspect it's because of the kernel -- AMD installation notes clearly states their things working only up to 3.19 kernel. When I tested on 14.10 it worked just fine, but it's EOL, no explanation goes here, right? And why do I even hold hope for that package, is because it's stated there that:

* debian/dkms/patches/buildfix_kernel_4.0.patch,
    debian/dkms/patches/buildfix_kernel_4.1.patch,
    debian/dkms/patches/buildfix_kernel_4.2.patch,
    debian/dkms/patches/buildfix_kernel_4.2.fpregs_active.patch,
    debian/dkms/patches/buildfix_kernel_4.2.copy_xregs_to_kernel.patch:
    - Refresh patches for the new release.
    - Add support for Linux 4.2 (LP: [#1518958]("https://launchpad.net/bugs/1518958"))

So I'm not really into understanding these, but I guess it means kernel 4.2 is supported by this package. Though 14.04.5 is on 4.4.0, I am hoping to switch kernel in GRUB boot menu to 4.2
Don't have any idea how that is going to turn out.

---

### Post by windflash on 2016-09-27
Uh. No 4.2 kernel in GRUB, regretfully. I mean, I knew it's 4.4 on 14.04.5, but why didn't you touched that, mentioning x-server on the other hand? Is that not crucial? Can it be helped even easier than the new x?
I also found kernel-downgrade (or, at least install, if it'll then be available to switch to in GRUB) command ```
 sudo apt-get install linux-generic-lts-wily xserver-xorg-core-lts-wily xserver-xorg-lts-wily xserver-xorg-video-all-lts-wily xserver-xorg-input-all-lts-wily libwayland-egl1-mesa-lts-wily libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-wily libgl1-mesa-glx-lts-wily:i386 libglapi-mesa-lts-wily:i386
```
But I am afraid to try it out since it's kernel -- like, important system core stuff that I do NOT want to break. It's a bit (not just a bit, honestly) annoying that after 16.04 came out, the "Trusty" Tahr became 3\4 legs Xenial Xerus. Is there any way to install Tahr and "inform" my system somehow, that I don't want these "improvements" from the non-fglrx-xenial future? (here goes the joke, ba-dum-tss...)

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-09-27
windflash; Hi !

What we can do with a bit if work and effort on your part is to *downgrade* your trusty to the original trusty 3.13 kernel and xorg;
remove the HWE components and boot up on :
```

sysop@1404mini:~$ uname -a
Linux 1404mini 3.13.0-96-generic #143-Ubuntu SMP Mon Aug 29 20:15:20 UTC 2016 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
sysop@1404mini:~$

sysop@1404mini:~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS
Release:        14.04
Codename:       trusty
sysop@1404mini:~$

```
where in the 3.13 kernel has FGLRX support and you will remain on the 3.13 kernel series .
See: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)
For full disclosure of what HWE is and does .

It is up to you what you want to do . Upfront will be quicker and easier - neglecting saving/copying re-install particular apps - to just do a clean fresh install of 14.04.1 . Must be the .1 release to avoid the installation of the non-supported X-stack .

[INDENT][INDENT]know-how does not come cheap
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-09-27
If you install 14.04.1 you will get the version of trusty that will still work with fglrx, but do not be tempted to use the 14.04.2 or .3 or even .4 versions as they have either already lost support for the hardware stack they include or will lose support very soon.
See [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack) for all the info.

Do not choose to update the hardware stack manually either, or you will be back in the same situation with no working fglrx availability.

If you stick with the xserver and kernel versions that come with 14.04.1 support will continue till 2019, so there is hopefully plenty of time for devs to sort out the fglrx problems by the time support finishes.

EDIT:
Ninja'd by Bashing-om.  Same story; just told differently.

---

### Post by windflash on 2016-09-27
Thank you all very much! For everyone who will ever be in the same boat as I: I will use 14.04.1. I would downgrade kernel if I had to, just two days ago, but now I'm just sick of all of this already. The image file can be found on 14.04.2 release page, if you scroll deep down, as I've just discovered. That is as of 27.9.16 of course. Who knows how ubuntu.com can change before 2019....

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-09-27
windflash; Good deal.
:)

[INDENT][INDENT]clean is good
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

