---
title: "8.10 installation DELETED my PARTITIONS! FIX this please!"
date: 2008-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Panarchy on 2008-11-09
Hello

It seems that the 64-bit version of Ubuntu is broken.

I downloaded it around an hour ago, burnt it to a DVD at 1x speed (using ImgBurn) with verify.

All verified a-ok!

I booted into ubuntu liveCD after making space for it on my drive (had to shrink another partition then made a new one ext3, already had a swap from OpenSuSE, did this all using Acronis Disk Director Server).

I then double clicked the install icon.

Selected my GMT (location) and my keyboard.

Then was up to the partitioning stage, and chose Manual.

The SATA drive I was planning to use for this wasn't listed!

:confused:

So I turned off my comp, and unplugged my IDE hard-drive.

So now the only hard-drive that I had installed was my SATA hard-drive.

Booted in, selected Manual, yet still it wasn't giving me a list of my partitions!

So I went back, and trusting the automatic install option would do what I needed it to do.

After a while the installation finished...

It booted into ubuntu.

I thought great! Then I restarted to try and boot into one of my other operating systems.

Noticed the ubuntu GRUB, and had to press ESC.

All that was listed was three ubuntus (I think the other two were specialized fail-safe ones).

!!!

](*,)

Please fix this bug in the next update ASAP.

In the meantime I am trying out some partition recovery programs... can you recommend any?

I think I had the following partitoning scheme;

NTFS
HFS+
FAT32
Ext3

On MBR.

Thanks in advance for any help,

Panarchy

---

### Post by SPr on 2008-11-09
> So I went back, and trusting the automatic install option would do what I needed it to do. Sorry but that is not a bug. You can't blame the installer for doing what you told it to do.

What does```
sudo fdisk -l
``` give? Does it show the partitions you had before?

[SystemRescueCD](http://www.sysresccd.org/) has TestDisk which it claims can recover lost partitions IIRC. I've never used it and don't know how good it is. I'm not recommending it but I'm telling you it's there so you can decide whether to use it or not.

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2008-11-09
This is what it gave me;

```
chip@chip-off-your-block:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 400.0 GB, 400088457216 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 48641 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xe6547f3c

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1           10137       23191   104864285    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           23192       39379   130030110    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3           39380       48641    74397015    5  Extended
/dev/sda4   *           1       10136    81417388+  17  Hidden HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda5           39380       39641     2104483+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6           39642       48641    72292468+   7  HPFS/NTFS

Partition table entries are not in disk order

Disk /dev/sdb: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x93aa93aa

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1       60801   488384001   83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdc: 16.4 GB, 16429088768 bytes
64 heads, 32 sectors/track, 15668 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 2048 * 512 = 1048576 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x6f20736b

This doesn't look like a partition table
Probably you selected the wrong device.

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1   ?      379950      937327   570754815+  72  Unknown
Partition 1 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sdc2   ?       82368     1027695   968014120   65  Novell Netware 386
Partition 2 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sdc3   ?      913029     1858355   968014096   79  Unknown
Partition 3 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sdc4   ?     1409025     1409052       27749+   d  Unknown
Partition 4 does not end on cylinder boundary.

Partition table entries are not in disk order

```

BTW: The 500GB Hard-Drive is my SATA one which I installed Ubuntu on today (and subsequently lost all my data). And the 400GB one is my IDE.

---

### Post by Cannaregio on 2008-11-09
you can try (try, he, no guarantee) e2fsck, the only thing that can work when the file system in Linux becomes corrupted for whatever reason.

Get into your box -with any live CD- and then use

```
e2fsck -b 32768 /dev/sda1
``` 
and/or
```
e2fsck -b 32768 /dev/sda4
``` 

...then answer yes to all questions (in fact keep the "y" key pressed... you could use the switch [COLOR="Blue"]-y[/COLOR], but with your finger on the key, at least you see what's going on :-)
good luck.

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2008-11-09
Thanks, once I've used a tool to recover my NTFS partition, I'll use the tool you mentioned to recover my ext3 partition.

But the two file-systems that I have my most important data on are;

NTFS
HFS+

So what I really need is for you to recommend me a tool that will enable me to recover my data from the HFS+ partition.

Thanks in advance for any recommendations,

Panarchy

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-11-09
Check out [TestDisk]("http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk") to recover your lost partitions.

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2008-11-09
Thanks.

I'll give that a go.

Panarchy

EDIT;

  Filesystems

TestDisk can find lost partitions for all of these file systems:

    * BeFS ( BeOS )
    * BSD disklabel ( FreeBSD/OpenBSD/NetBSD )
    * CramFS, Compressed File System
    * DOS/Windows FAT12, FAT16 and FAT32
    * HFS, HFS+ and HFSX, Hierarchical File System 

Since it mentions HFS+, does that mean it can recover my lost data?

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2008-11-10
Ah... having some trouble getting TestDisk to work.

Using the latest build of Parted Magic.

Please tell me how to recover my partitions.

Thanks in advance,

Panarchy

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2008-11-10
testdisk won't work, if you installed Ubuntu onto that drive, the you've lost any data that would be there as it has been overwritten.

Seems that when you shrunk the partition, to make room for Ubuntu, it must have borked your partition table, sorry all is lost, and it's not a bug, and would have been caused by Acronis Disk Director, since the damage had occurred before you ran the Ubuntu installer, this is why you didn't see any partitions listed, Ubuntu would not have had a chance to do anything to your drive yet.

This is why one must always make sure that ALL data is backed up before doing anything major to the system, especially when messing around with partitions.

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2008-11-10
Well testdisk is showing me some info.

Eg. that I had a HFS+ partition, NTFS partition and ext3 partition. Also FAT32 partition.

This program also tells me the lable I gave the partitions.

Just tell me how I can use it to recover my files!

Panarchy

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2008-11-11
> **Ocxic said:**
> testdisk won't work, if you installed Ubuntu onto that drive, the you've lost any data that would be there as it has been overwritten.

Seems that when you shrunk the partition, to make room for Ubuntu, it must have borked your partition table, sorry all is lost, and it's not a bug, and would have been caused by Acronis Disk Director, since the damage had occurred before you ran the Ubuntu installer, this is why you didn't see any partitions listed, Ubuntu would not have had a chance to do anything to your drive yet.

This is why one must always make sure that ALL data is backed up before doing anything major to the system, especially when messing around with partitions.

No... all partitions worked perfectly. It was ubuntu's fault.

This is an ubuntu installer bug.

No partitions were shown under sda

Please fix this bug ubuntu-dev.

Thanks in advance,

Panarchy

---

### Post by -Zeus- on 2008-11-11
this is not a bug, you just messed up (sorry, harsh but true) and are now trying to find a scapegoat for your problems.  In the future, read the instructions *carefully*.

---

### Post by ichi@YUKI on 2008-11-11
> **Panarchy said:**
> No... all partitions worked perfectly. It was ubuntu's fault.

This is an ubuntu installer bug.

No partitions were shown under sda

Please fix this bug ubuntu-dev.


Ubuntu wasn't the one who installed using the automatic install option.. tsk tsk..

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2008-11-13
^No!!!

I did a manual installation!

I'm not stupid :popcorn:

lol

Panarchy

---

### Post by mcduck on 2008-11-13
"So I went back, and trusting the automatic install option would do what I needed it to do."

Automatic install option doing automatic install definitely isn't a bug.

And the fact that the installer wasn't able to list partitions for the drive definitely is a sign that the partiton table was already broken.

---

### Post by TeXtonyx on 2008-11-13
[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Step_By_Step#Partition_table_recovery](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Step_By_Step#Partition_table_recovery)

With pictures, maybe this will work, there is no guarantee.
TestDisk_Step_By_Step#Partition_table_recovery

---

### Post by will103 on 2008-11-13
Try the following boot cd 'Recovery is possible'. It has testdisk plus a number of other dedicated recovery tools. I have used it very succesfully in the past when I have accidentally deleted files or partitions. However testdisk and other programmes like this require that you read up on them first before using. I realise that you are worried about your data, but time spent now will save you later on. Goodluck.

Will103

---

### Post by Panarchy on 2008-11-13
Thanks.

This time around I will just concentrate on saving a few of my documents. (docx)

I'll tell you how it goes

Panarchy

---

### Post by eanbowman on 2008-12-15
> **-Zeus- said:**
> this is not a bug, you just messed up (sorry, harsh but true) and are now trying to find a scapegoat for your problems.  In the future, read the instructions *carefully*.

Harsh and WRONG my friend.

I'm sitting here using the 8.10 live CD with the same results.

I have no partitions listed in gparted - something is very broken here.

My partition table is fine. I set it up in gparted, then rebooted and installed Windows on the first partition and it shut down cleanly.

Now I reboot and gparted sees nothing.

What gives?

fdisk lists:

Command (m for help): p

Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x78000000

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       17021   136721151    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           17022       30401   107474850    5  Extended
/dev/sda3           18237       30401    97715331   83  Linux
/dev/sda5           17022       18236     9759424+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Command (m for help): 

gparted comes up blank.

Anyone with an explanation instead of being a jerk to this poor guy?

---

### Post by eanbowman on 2008-12-15
Here's my solution.

I had already backed up all of my data before beginning the install.

I made the partitions <em>in</em> gparted on the same LiveCD, rebooted and installed Windows on the first one, rebooted and booted the LiveCD and gparted couldn't read the partitions it had created itself.

The problem lies in how I created the partitions. Even though this orientation has worked before, it somehow fails to be recognised with 8.10.

I had it set up so the NTFS drive was the first drive, then a second primary partiton of type ext3 for root, then an extended volume with my swap in it.

It seems that Windows didn't play nice with two primary partitions and corrupted the table somehow - but when I deleted the Linux partitions (in Windows, mind you), gparted had no problems reading the NTFS partition.

So I suppose my instructions for installing 8.10 on Intrepid would be to install Windows first but use Windows to make the NTFS partition. You can use the Windows installer to partition it using only a portion of the drive so it makes sense anyway. It would have saved me a step and some headaches anyway.

Afterward, installing Ubuntu is a breeze as per usual.

Cheers

---

