---
title: "10.10 Update Disaster"
date: 2011-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by OpEn_SoUrCe_RoCkS on 2011-11-14
Ok guys, I screwed up. I admit it. 

I shut down Ubuntu 10.10 after it had made updates... Hard reboot style.

No more boot. Fsck finds and fixes errors.

Try to boot.
Something about Plymouth failure. I fix that. 

I now get a mountall error... 
I boot with "init=/bin/bash", try to reconfigure mountall...

Only to find that all of dpkg's and apt's directories are gone. /var/cache is no more.
The apt lock file: gone. Dpkg status file: hey presto, nowhere to be found! 

All the other files on the fs are there though.
Dpkg is now reporting that no packages are installed, and apt gladly tells me that all required dependencies of mountall are, get this, uninstallable!

I'm going crazy with rage. 

I, stupid stupid stupid, don't have a backup of the system in a working state.

Is there ANY way to reinstall Ubuntu's main files, such as apt and dpkg and the like, without necessarily losing every config and program on there?

This thing was set up as my Time Machine server, an Airplay server, my video server, a music server, and a download server. I'd like to avoid a complete re-install.

I was actually laughing madly a couple of minutes ago. 
It's a sad, amazing, and truly hilarious situation, when you think about it.

Please help me or provide some insight, if you can.
Before I go *completely* crazy.

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2011-11-15
Try if you can access the harddrive through a live cd of Ubuntu, then at least copy your home directory to an external drive... Subsequently you probably need to fix your grub (be very careful with this one, that you understand every step in the process, as it also can do a lot of damage): [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows)

---

