---
title: "11.04 + Truecrypt"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JayD2 on 2011-04-30
When using truecrypt I can mount volumes fine and read the files but when I go to dismount them i get the following error and it won't dismount:

device-mapper: remove ioctl failed: Device or resource busy
Command failed

Restarting unmounts the volume but if I look in /media I will still see the truecrypt2 folder for example. It is empty but if I go to use that # again when mounting a volume it appears to mount fine but the folder will still be empty. I can mount the volume if I use a different # but then the same problem just happens again.

I'm assuming this is a problem with ubuntu 11.04 as I've done this with 10.10 without issue. Any suggestions for what might be wrong?


edit: truecrypt settings --> system integration --> check the "do not use kernel cryptographic services" seems to have fixed the problem.

Not really sure what that does though.

---

### Post by gcndavidmn on 2011-05-01
I've had the same issue, I had it on 10.10 too.

Have you figured out how to put the little TrueCrypt icon in the top bar with 11.04?

---

### Post by JayD2 on 2011-05-01
Yes.

First you need the dconf-editor which isn't installed by default

To install it in a terminal type:
```
sudo apt-get install dconf-tools
```Once installed run dconf-editor. This will bring you to a menu similar to the gconf one.
Go to desktop --> unity --> panel

There you will see line named "systray-whitelist"

Add ```
, 'truecrypt'
``` to the list

---

### Post by gcndavidmn on 2011-05-02
Brilliant. Thank you.

---

### Post by jt_04 on 2011-05-11
Thank you for your post. I am having the same problem - Ubuntu 11.04, fresh install, and i can't dismount my truecrypt volume without restarting.

I tried what you suggested and it didn't work for me. :( Even with "do not use kernel cryptographic services" checked, it behaves the same. I found on another post that it may be a defrag issue, but I defragged my volume and it didn't change anything. 

Did you have any other ideas? just thought I'd ask.

thanks much

---

### Post by gcndavidmn on 2011-05-11
I had to reboot for changes to take effect.

---

### Post by jt_04 on 2011-05-12
thanks, but it still doesn't work for me even after rebooting.

---

### Post by gcndavidmn on 2011-05-12
Sorry to hear. It would be nice if we got an update. Maybe a proper deb package so it will keep it's self updated and all.

---

### Post by tcamdg on 2011-05-31
> **jt_04 said:**
> thanks, but it still doesn't work for me even after rebooting.
Instead of just adding 'truecrypt' change that line so all that appears is:

['all']

---

### Post by jt_04 on 2011-07-19
i've discovered that if you unmount the volume first:

sudo umount /media/truecrypt1

then you can disconnect the truecrypt successfully

truecrypt -d

---

### Post by bjbinwf on 2011-07-23
> **jt_04 said:**
> i've discovered that if you unmount the volume first:

sudo umount /media/truecrypt1

then you can disconnect the truecrypt successfully

truecrypt -d

This worked for me.  Thanks!  :)

---

### Post by sanitycheck on 2012-01-15
In 11.10 the default has been changed to 'all'.  However, if you log into 'Ubuntu 2D' instead of 'Ubuntu' the Truecrypt icon will not appear.

In 11.04 even with the 'all' setting I still had problems with the icon.  Sometimes it would appear, sometimes it would not, and other times it would appear as a thin line.  I do not have this problem under 11.10.

---

