---
title: "10.02 LTS 3 servers wont boot after restart - filesystem check or mount failed"
date: 2013-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fbk2 on 2013-11-22
Suddenly all my 3 Ubuntu 10.04 LTS servers wont correctly boot after restart. All three have the same symptoms:

> mountall start/starting
Filesystem check or mount failed.
A maintenance shell will now be started.
...

so I did

> fsck
mount -o remount,rw /
dpkg --configure -a
mount -o remount,ro /
sync
reboot

no results - another try:

> fsck -f
reboot

still the same

tune2fs -l /dev/sda1 gives me
Last checked: 20 min. ago
Check interval: 6 months
Next check after: 21 May 2014

I tried automatic boot repair from Boot-repair-disk. No results.

Any suggestions ?

---

### Post by mellocode on 2013-11-22
Which partition is reporting errors? Is it the same on all three? What does your fstab look like?

---

### Post by fbk2 on 2013-11-22
Partition table is very simple:
/dev/sda1 / (primary)
/dev/sda2 extended
/dev/sda5 swap

fstab is the same on all three servers (except UIDs) - it automatically generated during install. Since then it didnt changed.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-11-22
fbk2; Hi !

As you are aware one cannot run a file system check while the partition is mounted and in use.
One thing you can do is to run a simple file check on the next (re)boot;
```

sudo touch /forcefsck
sudo shutdown -r now

```
If it still does not (re)boot properly, I would if at all possible (as you may be remoted from the servers) boot a liveCD and run the file system checks from that live environment.
Still with a problem .. time to start looking at grub and it's config files !

[INDENT][INDENT]just try'n to help
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-11-22
It is strange that 3 servers won't reboot at the same time.  Did you run any system updates?  Perhaps you have a mount in /etc/fstab that went away that is causing all three systems to stall.

/etc/mtab gets created dynamically, but fstab is static--unless you have script that runs at boot and modifies it.  If that is the case, then what script are you running to alter /etc/fstab?

---

### Post by fbk2 on 2013-11-24
As I wrote fstab wasn't being changed since install. It looks like:

> UUID=[uuid01] / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
UUID=[uuid02] none swap sw 0 0 
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0

where blkid gives me uuid01 and uuid02

I've just booted from install cd and did reinstall grub and fsck (fs clean). Still the same.

---

### Post by fbk2 on 2013-11-25
Can it be connected with locales changes ?

---

### Post by fbk2 on 2013-11-25
Another from boot:

> Running /scripts/local-premount ...
Done.
EXT4-fs (sda1): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode
Running /scripts/;pca;=bottom ...
Done.
Done.
Running /scripts/init-bottom ...
Done.
Filesystem check or mount failed . ...

It seems that filesystem and grub config is ok because ext4 is mounted correctly and the problem is somewhere deeper (udev ? initramfs ?).

---

