---
title: "Dual monitor troubles"
date: 2010-05-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by leneflower on 2010-05-18
Hi, I just did a fresh install of kubuntu yesterday. Now I try to get both my monitors working.

At first, with the Open Source NVidia drivers and the display settings in systemsettings, everything went fine. Then I installed the NVidia drivers and tried to enabled TwinView, and since then it went wrong and now I can't even have a single desktop over both monitors with the original drivers.

Basically, when I use the NVidia drivers, my primary monitor (DVI-0) is off and stays off whatever I try in nvidia-settings. Restarting KDM does not help. The desktop seems to stretch over VGA-1 (my secondary monitor (if you wonder why it is called VGA-1 and not VGA-0, I have no explanation to offer)) and DVI-0 as it should, it's just that DVI-0 is off. 

When I tried to revert to the Open Source drivers, both monitors showed the same picture. When I try to identify the monitors from KDE's monitor tab, both monitors show both names (DVI-0 and VGA-1).

Any ideas?

Edit: Maybe it's a relevant detail that my monitors have different sizes...

Thanks, Lene

---

### Post by leneflower on 2010-05-18
Threads merged.

---

### Post by leneflower on 2010-05-19
*bump* :) anybody?

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-05-19
Hm.
Did both monitors appear in *nvidia-settings*?

---

### Post by leneflower on 2010-05-19
Yes, they do. Software-wise it appears as if both monitors are working, only that DVI-0 is off.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-05-19
Have you hit "apply" and "Save  To X Configuration File" in
nvidia-settings?
Can you post your xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by leneflower on 2010-05-19
Yes, I think I have used nvidia-settings correctly.

Here's the generated xorg.conf (freshly regenerated, because I think trying the open source drivers again may have messed it up a bit):
> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Fri Apr  9 11:51:21 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HSD Hanns.G Hi221"
    HorizSync       24.0 - 94.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: NULL"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-05-19
Option "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: NULL"


This line is strange.AFAIK *DFP: NULL* means that DFP is *off*.

Edit this line. (delete  [COLOR="Red"]CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: NULL[/COLOR] )so that it looks like:

Option "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0"

Edit it with [I]gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
[/I]

Restart (X),what happens?

---

### Post by leneflower on 2010-05-19
Maybe it's worth notice that in nvidia-settings, after I restarted the X server, DVI-0 is marked as "off", even though I activated it before.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-05-19
> **leneflower said:**
> Maybe it's worth notice that in nvidia-settings, after I restarted the X server, DVI-0 is marked as "off", even though I activated it before.


...thats what I say.Your xorg.conf sets it  "off".Please try the suggested changes...

---

### Post by leneflower on 2010-05-19
Our posts crossed... in the meantime, I have edited out the second half of the metamode, and sorry, but it's still the same.

---

### Post by leneflower on 2010-05-19
Here's two other modelines that didn't work either (inspired by the thought that I maybe *have* to supply two modes):
> Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0" and > Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0; CRT: 1680x1050 +0+0, DFP: 1920x1200 +1680+0"

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-05-19
> **leneflower said:**
> Our posts crossed... in the meantime, I have edited out the second half of the metamode, and sorry, but it's still the same.


you changed the ; to " at the end of that line I assume.If so,
I have no idea whats wrong.

NVidia has a very good linux forum,post your error there,include the error log file.

```
sudo nvidia-bug-report.sh
```

generates it;can also post it here.

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?s&forumid=14](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?s&forumid=14)


BTW,have you hit "save current configuration" in "nvidia settings configuration" in nvidia-settings?
Do you have a file "monitors.xml" in your /home/yourusersname/.config/ folder?


Edit:
Can you test this one also?:

Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1680x1050 +0+0, DFP: 1920x1200 +1680+0"

---

### Post by leneflower on 2010-05-19
I got it! :popcorn:
I downgraded the NVidia drivers to version 173. 

I don't know why the 195 series didn't work, but my graphics card is a couple of years old, I suppose I don't need the newer drivers.

Now that I sunk a couple of hours into solving this, I don't particularly feel like sending a bug report to NVidia... damn...

Thanks a lot for your help, realzippy!

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-05-19
You made it.
Would be interested in your current xorg.conf file....(under 173.xx) to compare..

---

