---
title: "18.04 fails to resume after hibernation"
date: 2018-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by antonvesnin on 2018-05-13
For the beginning i say, that hibernation worked perfect on 17.10 on my hardware, and it doesn't look to me as a hardware problem now. Now when i'm putting my laptop to hibernation either by `systemctl hibernate` or `hibernate` it does write memory content somewhere on the disk, but while i'm starting it again, it looks like the kernel or initrd can't find the proper hibernation image. What i tried:


Put **RESUME=UUID=cac3c850-bc33-44ab-adb4-41dcb5403e6f** into my **/etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume**, and do **update-initramfs -u**, this actually made things worse, because it just made the boot slower and i had to wait until it will say "giving up on resume" or something like that. The UUID is correct, i checked with **blkid**, and i use this as a swap partition, checked with **swapon --show**.


I tried to remove it from **/etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume** and add **resume=UUID=cac3c850-bc33-44ab-adb4-41dcb5403e6f** to **/etc/default/grub**, and do **update-grub**, and also checked that it has been passed to kernel by checking /proc/cmdline, but also no luck. So how can I make ubuntu 18.04 resume after suspend? Or at least how can i debug issue more, to find out what's the problem exactly? Also tried a few different kernels - nothing changed. Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by s-breedveld on 2018-05-17
I saw your post while struggling was well with hibernate. I got it working, and wrote a small guide. Maybe you will find some pointers there:

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2392205](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2392205)

---

### Post by bteuro on 2018-07-04
No offense, but the guide makes this much more difficult than it should be.

I too am trying to get my laptop to hibernate and resume properly.

The hibernate options should never have been removed from the logout menu and the power menu.

In my opinion, rather than throwing up our hands and giving up on  hibernate, the menu options should be put back without users having to  put them back by editing files. Hibernate should work out of the box as  well as possible for all computers and when it doesn't, the user should  be given a troubleshooting wizard that will help discover what the  problem is in order to get the mainline code fixed for that particular  computer.

The closest I have gotten to getting hibernate working is to sudo apt-get install hibernate

The main problem with installing hibernate package is that hibernating  from the logout menu, (after hacking the option back there of course) it  appears to be saving to swap before powering off but resume does not  occur and it boots up like it would if I pulled the power and battery to  power off. The same failure to resume is seen when suspending with  systemctl hibernate so it appears that the hibernate button in the  logout menu is doing a systemctl hibernate for me. With the same device  with the same packages installed (including hibernate), I can hibernate  and resume just fine by doing sudo s2disk or sudo hibernate-disk. This  scenario is also with no grub options changed from a default install of  18.04 and by that I specifically mean that there is not an added option  for resume=/dev/sda5 or whatever the swap device is, nor is there a  resume=UUID-xxxxxxWhateverxxxx. I have also tried WITH the resume=  option added to the grub command line and it does not help (in the  systemctl hibernate nor logout hibernate) nor hinder (in the s2disk or  hibernate-disk case). Now when I say that s2disk works, directly on my  laptop, it works with the exception that the laptop screen does not come  back on. If I suspend from a terminal with s2disk and then power back  up, I can blindly type eject and the cdrom tray pops open. The screen is  not just dark (no backlight), but there is no image on it, even when  shining an extremely bright flashlight at the screen. I have tried  closing and opening the lid (the power option I have set for lid closure  is "Switch off display") but the display stays off. I have tried  adjusting the brightness up and down with the fn key for brightness and  still it does not come back on. What DOES work to bring the display back  on is to suspend with s2ram but even then I have to s2ram and wake it  up and then s2ram and wake it a second time. Alternatively, I can s2ram  once and wake and then close/open lid. Attempting to do hibernate-ram  gives the following error:

"hibernate-ram:Warning: Tuxonice binary signature file not found.
s2ram: unknown machine, see s2ram(8) and the USuspendRamForce option
hibernate-ram: Aborting."

Of course, I don't SEE the error until I do s2ram and wake and close/open lid :smile: For completeness, each run of s2ram outputs "KMS graphics driver is in use, skipping quirks."

Additionally, on my laptop upon resuming after hibernating to disk, the  wired network does not work even though it makes the appearance of  reconnecting. modprobe -r r8169 followed by modprobe r8169 gets it back  to working. This is something that the operating system should do  automatically or automatically after a troubleshooting wizard noticing  that a computer is using and r8169 and that after resuming the network  is not reachable it should try the potential fix and apply it to future  hibernation cycles. Eventually I hope to track down a better workaround  than s2ram close/open lid to get the display back on and whatever it is  needs to be built into the troubleshooting wizard that needs to ship  with the operating system. By implementing such a troubleshooting  system, we can avoid having each person who has the same problem have to  search out a fix that they have to manually apply. Sure it may take  some time to get all hardware working but it should be entirely doable.

Once I can iron out the details of what is wrong with the built-in  hibernate, I'd like to undo all the changes I've done following this  advice and that advice because who knows what conflicts they may cause.  This is why I installed virtualbox on my computer and did a fresh  install of Lubuntu 18.04 to the virtual machine. Somewhere along the  way, someone wrote up a how-to that included the need to have a swap  partition (which may or may not be necessary as a swap file may work as  well) so in my installation (on both laptop and vm), I created a swap  partition of approximately twice my RAM amount. Other than that I did a  standard install and after installation finishing I applied all  available updates. On the VM, I created a snapshot so I can make changes  and then revert if I want to try something else. On the virtualbox VM,  s2disk and hibernate-disk both work fine including the display coming  back on without having to s2ram like on my laptop. I'm unable to get the  VM to wake up after s2ram by the normal method of pressing a key.  Input, Keyboard, Insert Ctrl-Alt-Delete or any other key combo to insert  did not wake the VM. I did manage to get it back awake by doing  Machine, ACPI Shutdown. The VM did not shut down but just woke up. I do  not have Guest Additions installed. Lubuntu 18.04 running in the VM also  does not work with sudo systemctl hibernate. It appears to hibernate  just fine but resuming never happens it just boots like I forcefully  powered it off on the previous run. The ability of anyone with nearly  any hardware to duplicate the failure in virtualbox should allow the bug  with the built-in hibernate functionality to be squashed and once and  for all for the hibernate button in the logout screen and the power  settings to be enabled by default.

---

### Post by markackerman8@gmail.com on 2018-07-15
I hope this helps

For me it has always worked until 18.04 and after 18.04 I enabled it as is in many articles, but it suddenly stopped working just yesterday (working fine for 4-5 months),

and here is the ... ONE THING that got it working again ...

Tell grub 2 where the swap partition is:

First find out which partition it is on: using the below command:
```
cat /etc/fstab
``` 
 ... Mine is on sda7 as is the following output

    > swap was on /dev/sda7 during installation

Then, add in Grub 2 the following addition to the following line, using the following command:

```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="intel_pstate=disable resume=/dev/sda7"

    
The important part is "resume=/dev/sda7"

    /dev/sda7 in my case

Then Update Grub with the following command, and after this it started working perfectly again

```
sudo update-grub
```

After many attempts this was the one thing worked, perhaps it was just because of an update to the kernel that screwed it up, never the less this worked ... I hope it helps

Cheers, Mark

---

### Post by dvo on 2018-08-11
Thanks Mark for your helpful response.
Indeed adding a resume partition to the grub configuration was the key also in my case.
Yet for me using the normal device name, e.g.., /dev/sdb6, did not work, but using the UUID, e.g.,

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="resume=UUID=db3c9ac5-e2bc-43de-a48a-f1f8cf9b67a5"

---

### Post by hirt on 2018-08-27
+1 I also had to specify the UUID of the swap partition to make it work
```
 GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash resume=UUID=3316d1a6-a36a-4f70-948e-4f97a76b5d3e" 
```

---

### Post by doaa.altarawy on 2018-09-04
Using [COLOR=#000000]UUID[/COLOR] of the swap instead of the /dev/... in the grub file solved my problem!! thanks.

X1 Carbon 6th Gen, Ubuntu 18.04

---

### Post by ulli.winter on 2018-11-14
> **hirt said:**
> +1 I also had to specify the UUID of the swap partition to make it work
```
 GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash resume=UUID=3316d1a6-a36a-4f70-948e-4f97a76b5d3e" 
```

great! finally works again :)
Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by maciej-motyka on 2019-02-12
I have a swapfile instead of swap partition. Adding ```
resume=/swapfile
``` worked for me.
I have to add, though, that instead of ```
pm-hibernate
``` I am using ```
sudo s2disk
``` command provided by  **uswsusp **package.

---

### Post by maciej-motyka on 2019-02-12
[COLOR=#000000]Works! But I believe that adding ```
intel_pstate=disable
``` is not necessary for enabling hibernation.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by mystic-scientist on 2019-09-23
Coming across this a couple times now in the #ubuntu IRC channel on Freenode while assisting users. I made a one-liner which is probably inelegant but will extract the UUID of the first swap partition found by blkid and add it to the list of arguments of GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX in /etc/default/grub , and then run update-grub. Maybe someone finds it useful.

```
grubswap=$(echo -e GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=\"resume=UUID=$(sudo blkid| grep  swap|cut -d' ' -f2|cut -d'"' -f2|head -n1)\ )&& sudo sed -i  "s/GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=\"/$grubswap/g" /etc/default/grub && sudo  update-grub

```

---

