---
title: "10.04 - Empathy, Evolution, Gwibber don't start automatically anymore"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by _rex on 2010-04-30
Just did a fresh install of 10.04, everything working great, and I was pretty excited about the integration with gwibber, evolution, and empathy. I was fiddling around, getting things the way I wanted them (startup programs and such), and upon a test restart, noticed that unlike the first couple of times I had restarted with 10.04, the Evolution icon no longer came up in the tray, and my "Me" menu was useless - didn't have me signed in to Gwibber or Empathy, didn't give the option to do so. 

Yes, I can still run these programs no problem, and I could probably get it such that they ran at the start... but what I would like is for them to run minimized, in the tray, like they did the first time I booted up 10.04. Again, I trust this is a mere couple of lines in the command prompt, I just don't know what they are. Thanks in advance for any help!

---

### Post by frederikbjerreandersen on 2010-05-01
I got the exact same problem - I can start Gwibber manually, but it doesn't  start up automatically in the "Me Menu". Opening the list of accounts  gives the message 'not connected - status offline' (or something, my  language-setting is in danish...), which changes only when I manually  open Gwibber.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-05-01
> **_rex said:**
> Just did a fresh install of 10.04, everything working great, and I was pretty excited about the integration with gwibber, evolution, and empathy. I was fiddling around, getting things the way I wanted them (startup programs and such), and upon a test restart, noticed that unlike the first couple of times I had restarted with 10.04, the Evolution icon no longer came up in the tray, and my "Me" menu was useless - didn't have me signed in to Gwibber or Empathy, didn't give the option to do so. 

Yes, I can still run these programs no problem, and I could probably get it such that they ran at the start... but what I would like is for them to run minimized, in the tray, like they did the first time I booted up 10.04. Again, I trust this is a mere couple of lines in the command prompt, I just don't know what they are. Thanks in advance for any help!

System-Preferences-Startup Applications.

---

### Post by krishnandu.sarkar on 2010-05-01
I'm aslo facing same problem. It asks something called keyring. How to automate that??

And one more thing about gwibber. Is it buggy?? It doesn't show any twitter updates at all.

---

### Post by frederikbjerreandersen on 2010-05-01
David, that doesn't solve our problem: as _rex wrote, you can manually start up the programs or make them start-up applications. But what we want is to make them run in the tray/ me menu, so they are integrated in the desktop environment as described so many places about 10.04

f

---

### Post by americanLoki on 2010-05-02
I had the same problem. I did end up adding a new entry in System >> Preferences >> Startup Applications. I named it Empathy (hidden start) and the command was empathy -h. This starts up Empathy in a hidden state (or I guess more accurately minimized to the tray/panel) and thus you don't see the program but can still use the Me menu. After a log off/on it worked exactly as I had hoped.

---

### Post by Simoo on 2010-05-02
Same here, fresh install of Lucid Lynx and no sign-in-on-startup for Empathy or Gwibber.

The 'Me menu' just brings up the programs preferences.

Surely we should be getting signed in to these services as we log in to Ubuntu without having to add the individual apps under 'System > Preferences > Startup applications'?

---

### Post by ezahn on 2010-05-02
Exact. Same. Problem.

I think there's a bug here somewhere. There's no "integration" if you have to add the apps to the startup list manually.

I'm sure someone more experienced than me (easy: I'm a total n00b) will be able to help us soon.
That's great about Ubuntu: a REAL community. :)

---

### Post by barti on 2010-05-02
Could it be that I'm using a wireless connection - and it doesn't establish until a little while after login? If I have a wired LAN connection the Me Menu seems to login correctly.

Stephen

---

### Post by SkillenUK on 2010-05-02
I'm also having this issue and came to the same conclusion with the wireless connection. I'm not sure if there is a workaround but I think this really is classed as a bug and may need an update to resolve it. I'd love to know how to get it working on a wireless connection though, regards,

Chris.

---

### Post by barti on 2010-05-02
Ideally the applications that the 'Me Menu' uses should check for a connection every so often, - not sure if they're already meant to?

Stephen

---

### Post by chall32 on 2010-05-03
> **dcstar said:**
> System-Preferences-Startup Applications.

I used:

```
Name = Empathy

Command = empathy -h
```

> -h, --start-hidden   Don't display the contact list or any other dialogues on startup

Works fine for me!

---

### Post by frederikbjerreandersen on 2010-05-03
Chall32: yes, putting Empathy in the startup-applications is a possibility - but it has always been.

The new "me menu" is supposed to make seamless integration between the desktop and the social medias... and theres nothing seamless about putting programs in the startup applications...even Windows 98 was able to do that...

Besides, opening Empathy doen't start Gwibber, the other half of the me-menu stuff. Also, I wonder if the "me menu" is not supposed to remind you of messages in the facebook inbox (not chat) and the like... as for now, even after I added empathy for auto-start, it doen't do anything like that...

---

### Post by folf on 2010-05-08
> **frederikbjerreandersen said:**
> 

Besides, opening Empathy doen't start Gwibber, the other half of the me-menu stuff. Also, I wonder if the "me menu" is not supposed to remind you of messages in the facebook inbox (not chat) and the like... as for now, even after I added empathy for auto-start, it doen't do anything like that...

Go to
System->Preferences->Broadcast Preferences
or start
gwibber-preferences

An you'll be presented with a small gui to activate automatic logon.

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by mikeftl on 2010-05-09
I have gotten everything to run on startup... except evolution. I've tried adding evolution -h to the startup manager but it wont work? what am i doing wrong?

---

### Post by ahC8shio on 2010-05-11
I believe Evolution doesn't have a hidden mode. I ended up using [alltray]("http://alltray.trausch.us/") to get a similar behavior. Probably not the best solution, but it worked for me.

---

### Post by pemadorje on 2010-05-19
> I'm also having this issue and came to the same conclusion with the wireless connection. I'm not sure if there is a workaround but I think this really is classed as a bug and may need an update to resolve it. I'd love to know how to get it working on a wireless connection though, regards,

I am also having this issue. When booting up connected to wireless Empathy doesn't start in the tray. But when booting up with a wired connection, it does work fine. I agree and also think that this is a bug. It really shouldn't try to connect until there is a network connection. Does anyone know if there is a bug filed on launchpad for this? I did a brief search and couldn't find one.

---

### Post by Olorin5800 on 2010-05-20
i have a simillar problem i can't start gwibber anymore when i try to start it at the command line i get something like this (also the gwibber process is not in the processes list)


oot:Starting couchdb failed on try 9
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/desktopcouch/start_local_couchdb.py", line 251, in start_couchdb
    pid, port = run_couchdb(ctx=ctx)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/desktopcouch/start_local_couchdb.py", line 132, in run_couchdb
    raise RuntimeError("Can not start couchdb.")
RuntimeError: Can not start couchdb.
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/gwibber", line 67, in <module>
    client.Client()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/gwibber/client.py", line 447, in __init__
    self.w = GwibberClient()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/gwibber/client.py", line 29, in __init__
    self.model = gwui.Model()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/gwibber/gwui.py", line 42, in __init__
    self.settings = util.SettingsMonitor()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/gwibber/util.py", line 91, in __init__
    DEFAULT_SETTINGS)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/gwibber/microblog/util/couch.py", line 66, in __init__
    self.database = CouchDatabase(dbname, create=True)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/desktopcouch/records/server.py", line 53, in __init__
    port = desktopcouch.find_port(ctx=ctx)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/desktopcouch/__init__.py", line 51, in find_port
    return _direct_access_find_port(pid=pid, ctx=ctx)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/desktopcouch/__init__.py", line 75, in __find_port__linux
    pid = find_pid(start_if_not_running=True, ctx=ctx)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/desktopcouch/__init__.py", line 35, in find_pid
    pid = start_local_couchdb.start_couchdb(ctx=ctx)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/desktopcouch/start_local_couchdb.py", line 260, in start_couchdb
    raise saved_exception
RuntimeError: Can not start couchdb.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Simoo on 2010-05-24
Olorin5800: That's a little off topic

This is to do with an issue regarding the usefulness of the 'Me menu' being completely undermined by the fact that it does not sign the user in automatically to the individual services. What use is a menu that collates all your social networking if you then have to tell each individual app to start up and sign in automatically? Average users are not going to do that, nor should they have to.

> Could it be that I'm using a wireless connection - and it doesn't establish until a little while after login? If I have a wired LAN connection the Me Menu seems to login correctly.

Wired connection here and the Me menu is still 'dead' upon login.

---

### Post by Takahashi on 2010-05-25
Same issue here with a wireless and wired connection. On my home network on a wireless it automatically connects one out of nine times. 

I agree with what most people are saying here, it's something that should be resolved for the average user who doesn't want to deal with bugs like this. 

The program should try to connect every 30 seconds or so and stop after so long. It's really a pain for someone like me who is always on the go between coffee shops, college, home, and friends houses working on stuff.

---

### Post by pemadorje on 2010-05-28
Mine started working for awhile (was showing up fine in the notification area). But then, last night, it stopped working again. Finally gave up and installed Pidgin instead. So far, it's working flawlessly.

---

### Post by isbura on 2010-05-29
I'm also having these problems with nothing signing in on startup. It worked fine for the first few days with 10.04 on my wireless network, but now nothing. If I click Username->Chat Accounts.. and manually toggle each to disabled and back to enabled they all connect fine.

At first I thought I'd broken something after trying to remove large chunks of Evolution from my Netbook Edition install but reading this thread I'm beginning to think it's probably a bug related to wireless networking.

Shame, I really like the concept and I hope they work out the bugs soon.

---

### Post by HastaRuh on 2010-06-01
I can't get it work. I click 1000s of time and nope. It doesn't come up. Nothing happens. The application itself is a ghost man...

---

### Post by isbura on 2010-06-03
Finally got round to trying this 'feature' again with a wired connection. Still no luck. 

[quote="Ubuntu"]New in 10.04. Read and update your social networks instantly. Ubuntu's  new Me Menu lets you access your Facebook and Twitter accounts (and  more) straight away. Connect to your chat channels and make updates  through a single window. Being sociable has never been so easy.[/quote]

Not for me. To log into my chat/social accounts I need to run BOTH Empathy and Gwibber at startup. Empathy starts hidden, Gwibber unfortunately doesn't. Basically the same steps as I had to take with previous versions of  Ubuntu, but infinitely more annoying because 10.04 is supposed to have  integrated all this. 

So now I have 2 windows PLUS the Mail icon that does nothing AND the Me Menu that is redundant because it provides the same functionality as the Empathy panel icon. 

On Ubuntu Netbook Edition I'm sorely tempted to try and remove these new social menu thingies; screen space is limited and unless I can find some way of coaxing them into working as advertised then they'll have to go :(

---

### Post by kevdog161 on 2010-06-09
> **isbura said:**
> I'm also having these problems with nothing signing in on startup. It worked fine for the first few days with 10.04 on my wireless network, but now nothing. If I click Username->Chat Accounts.. and manually toggle each to disabled and back to enabled they all connect fine.

At first I thought I'd broken something after trying to remove large chunks of Evolution from my Netbook Edition install but reading this thread I'm beginning to think it's probably a bug related to wireless networking.

Shame, I really like the concept and I hope they work out the bugs soon.

This seems to be the only way for me to log on to chat as well.  Any solution to this non-automatic starting?

---

### Post by temporos on 2010-06-09
> **kevdog161 said:**
> This seems to be the only way for me to log on to chat as well.  Any solution to this non-automatic starting?
This problem is hit-or-miss with me.  Sometimes it starts just fine.  Other times, it starts but is stuck in "offline" mode.  The only way to become "available" is by manually starting Empathy and changing my status via the friends list window.  I'm on a wireless connection, as well.

---

### Post by kevdog161 on 2010-06-09
> **temporos said:**
> This problem is hit-or-miss with me.  Sometimes it starts just fine.  Other times, it starts but is stuck in "offline" mode.  The only way to become "available" is by manually starting Empathy and changing my status via the friends list window.  I'm on a wireless connection, as well.

I've been thinking about this for the last 24 hours or so, trying to figure it out, and can't really come up with anything.  Perhaps the main problem is simply perception-related -- ie: maybe the only thing meant by "integration" ('social from the start') is that you can control empathy/evolution/gwibber from the panel.  If that's the extent of what's being offered, along with osd notifications, then fine, no big deal about it not auto-starting.

I think the issue seems larger because we are all expecting to boot up, be logged in, and getting notifications about twitter/facebook/chat/mail as long as we have internet connectivity.

I don't necessarily mind adding empathy to my start programs, per se, but gwibber is a total disaster - even if it starts (no promise for most people), there are scores of other issues, from authetication to notifications being broken, etc.  At this point I've deleted gwibber, and I guess I'll wait to see what happens next.

---

### Post by temporos on 2010-06-10
> **kevdog161 said:**
> ... I don't necessarily mind adding empathy to my start programs...

Empathy *is* in my startup programmes preferences.  It just crashes immediately about half the time once it starts (thereby leaving me stuck in "offline" mode).

---

### Post by yafes on 2010-06-11
probably one gwibber instance still hang. kill it (ps -ef |grep gwibber) and try again.

---

### Post by temporos on 2010-06-11
> **yafes said:**
> probably one gwibber instance still hang. kill it (ps -ef |grep gwibber) and try again.

Not sure if you were replying to me, but I uninstalled gwibber, so that's not the issue.

Actually, I don't mind the little envelope thing anymore, now that I uninstalled gwibber and evolution, and installed a gmail checker.  So both chats and my gmail show up in that envelope.  When it works properly, it's really nice.  *When it works properly...*

---

### Post by christer.holmer on 2011-01-11
> **isbura said:**
> I'm also having these problems with nothing signing in on startup. ...... If I click Username->Chat Accounts.. and manually toggle each to disabled and back to enabled they all connect fine.


Just wanted to say that I experience the same problem and performs the same disable/enable procedure.

---

