---
title: "Used iPod, now dvd drive won't mount..."
date: 2007-06-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Krystoll Meth on 2007-06-14
DVD-RW drive from Sony (dunno if that's important or if more is needed), plugged my iPod in the other day, now i can plug that in & unplug it at my leisure but now when i put ANYTHING in the dvd drive, it gives me a pop up with "Cannot mount volume" in huge letters then underneath it is "Invalid mount option when attempting to mount the volume"

I never set an option...nor do i know how to.  But I don't doubt I managed to end up doing something.

If anyone trying to help needs any more info, let me know.

---

### Post by NeoLithium on 2007-06-14
Can you copy and paste the output of this command in a terminal window (Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal)
```
cat /etc/fstab
```

We'll get it back up for ya :)

---

### Post by Krystoll Meth on 2007-06-19
> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=5ca341e9-e85b-44ba-b1fc-628491d685cf /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=757c8d54-ca18-4317-aa16-aff15ea98745 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hdb1   /media/hdb1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions


Sorry for the delay in posting this.  Even tried a clean install, used the dvd drive w/out problem, then once I plugged the iPod in, everything went downhill again with the same exact error.

I appreciate the help very much :-)  

Side note: How's Gutsy?

---

### Post by Krystoll Meth on 2007-06-20
Bump of desperation

---

### Post by Krystoll Meth on 2007-06-21
Shameless "please for the love of all that is holy/unholy, help me" bump

I really need help.  Tried on my own (hence the re-install)...

---

