---
title: "2.6.24-19-generic downloaded multiple times"
date: 2008-07-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sleaka J on 2008-07-10
Anybody else had linux header 2.6.24-19-generic download about 4 or 5 times now in the last month or so? Or is it just me?

---

### Post by heatblazer on 2008-07-10
For now it`s just you :)

---

### Post by Sleaka J on 2008-07-17
Ok, now that's about the 6th time I've had to download the same header. I have no idea why it's doing it, I've hardly used Ubuntu since the last time it downloaded. No new drivers or software (apart from the normal updates), no new hardware.

Anybody have any theories?

---

### Post by tosoth on 2008-07-17
It's not just you. I think they have different less significant number that is not shown. The last one, that happened yesterday, was scr***d up imo and I lost 3D acceleration.

---

### Post by Ataris on 2008-07-17
Things can get downloaded a lot if they are corrupted or in partial and you're not connected to the Internet. Do you get any sort of error when you download it? If you do, just use apt-get to restore the package.

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2008-07-17
Highlight the update, go to "Versions" and look at the last number. I currently have 2.6.24-19.34 installed and .36 is the update. Do you have "hardy-proposed" enabled in your repos? I have had a few header/kernel/image updates show up through "hardy-proposed" recently. 2.6.24-19.36 is from "hardy-security".

---

### Post by blazercist on 2008-07-17
yea I had a couple 2.6.24-19-generics they are slightly different versions thats all.  the last one screwed up my 3d acceleration but I managed to fix it.  O well... its all for the greater good.

---

### Post by tosoth on 2008-07-17
@blazercist
Can you tell me what you did to fix 3D acceleration?

---EDIT---
Well nvm, I didn't see  your sig :). Unfortunately I have ati card, so there's little chance your solutions will help me. I have to do it myself... again... but not today.

---

