---
title: "11.04 Live CD Boot Menu"
date: 2011-07-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by akarmenia on 2011-07-02
Where is the boot menu on 11.04? It goes straight to loading the OS and doesn't show me any boot options. Is there a shortcut key I need to press? I'm trying to run memtest86+.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-07-02
If ubuntu is your only os, then grub will stay hidden.
Press and hold shift while booting and it will show up.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-02
> **akarmenia said:**
> Where is the boot menu on 11.04?

Your thread title says live CD. Do you mean on the live CD or on your permanent installation? If on your permanent installation do what TeoBigusGeekus says. If you are booting the live CD, when the two icons of the stick figure and the keyboard appear at the bottom of the screen, tap any key and you will be taken to the text menu via the language selector.

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2011-07-02
> **coffeecat said:**
> your thread title says live cd. Do you mean on the live cd or on your permanent installation? If on your permanent installation do what teobigusgeekus says. **if you are booting the live cd**, when the two icons of the stick figure and the keyboard appear at the bottom of the screen, tap any key and you will be taken to the text menu via the language selector.

+1

---

### Post by akarmenia on 2011-07-03
> **coffeecat said:**
> Your thread title says live CD. Do you mean on the live CD or on your permanent installation? If on your permanent installation do what TeoBigusGeekus says. If you are booting the live CD, when the two icons of the stick figure and the keyboard appear at the bottom of the screen, tap any key and you will be taken to the text menu via the language selector.

Cheers for that :)

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2011-07-03
In case you have no other question :)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/album.php?albumid=2161&pictureid=7263](http://ubuntuforums.org/album.php?albumid=2161&pictureid=7263)

---

