---
title: "12.10 very buggy"
date: 2012-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JamesBenWallace on 2012-10-21
I just updated from Ubuntu 12.04. It was totally not worth it. Can't install any programs the whole computer is lag. Is this just a bug? Someone please help me.

---

### Post by garginis on 2012-10-21
In software sources change option 'download from' and set it to 'Main Server'.This will give you ability to install programs.Also, may be your pc is not good enough for ubuntu 12.10, so it's better to try xubuntu or lubuntu.

Cheers, Dragan

---

### Post by VE6EFR on 2012-10-21
You may want to try a fresh install instead of an upgrade. It seems like quite a few people are having issues with upgrading but the fresh install appears to work well.

---

### Post by mayagrafix on 2012-10-21
I did a fresh install and this thing ROCKS! no lags, no screen darkening, nothing but pure good Ubuntu experience:KS

---

### Post by judderwocky on 2012-10-23
Its buggy for me too. 

1) xfdesktop crashes on both of my computers  ( gateway/laptop hp/desktop) when set to "Show minimized programs"  and the panels are moved.
2) Thunar has been crashing for me when i remove and reinsert my usb drive
3) application finder has crashed  twice for unknown reasons, as well as firefox

This is pretty buggy for me.

---

### Post by drende on 2012-11-29
Yes, 12.10 is the buggiest Ubuntu I have ever used. I use it successfully every day for serious development on my Lenovo ThinkPad T420s. The bugs and crashing apps are more of an annoyance.
Most annoying:
[LIST]
[*] ModemManager crashes several times a day while I use built-in UMTS modem. Connection is dropped and I restart NetworkManager and restart the nm-applet and reconnect.
[*] Network Manager tries to change network connection to every driver in the box - sometimes it says Wired Network Connected when there is no network cable connected
[*] Compiz crashes
[*] SDHD cards not recognized, but it works on older ubuntu versions
[/LIST]

Most crashes are not so intrusive - I just get a notification about a crash but the desktop still works fine.

So all-in-all I am happy with Ubuntu 12.10.

---

### Post by Statia on 2012-11-29
Based on the reviews I have read and the support questions here I would advise to stay with 12.04. All 12.10 gets you is Amazon shopping and a plethora of bugs.

---

### Post by Carl H on 2012-11-29
I did a fresh install of Xubuntu 12.10 last week, and so far I'm very pleased. It's quick, responsive, and so far I haven't found any bugs.

---

### Post by drende on 2012-11-29
To be fair, I should say many bugs have been fixed too.
12.10 is more stable regarding suspend-resume issues, and
it hibernates (to disk) without any hassles.

---

### Post by roadrash on 2013-01-04
Well this is the worst release in a long time.  I have spent days now messing around.  I first tried the 64 bit version & after getting lots of errors with instalation and then with the nvidia driver which I fixed just to get another error the next day which resulted in a failure to load to the desktop exiting into a shell.
Then I thought well oK I'll give the i386 version a try & again loads of problems using the live disk from all media USB, Dvd etc.  It kept locking up during boot up and just hung forever.
I have now had to go back to the 12.04 release becaase I am getting nowhere with this one.  Ubuntu what has happend, you have been making advances with every release & now with this one you have completely undone all the previous work.  Its quite simply the worst disro release I have ever tried.

---

### Post by HernanLinux93 on 2013-01-04
there has been an issue with the upgrade, a lot of people have been having issues including myself on that, I did the clean install just to try it out and it has worked really well, it was, fast and it didnt lag...but I use 12.04 ..so maybe just try a fresh new install and see how that works out good luck :)

---

### Post by drende on 2013-01-04
Maybe the Ubuntu team was busy with this: [http://www.ubuntu.com/devices/phone](http://www.ubuntu.com/devices/phone).

---

