---
title: "Miro will not play videos in 7.10"
date: 2007-12-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 50words on 2007-12-06
I just downloaded Miro, which is just a fantastic tool for downloading and viewing videos across platforms. However, it will not play the videos. I found two sites with postings on the problem:

[http://www.getmiro.com/forum/comments.php?DiscussionID=342](http://www.getmiro.com/forum/comments.php?DiscussionID=342)
[http://www.lockergnome.com/linux/2007/07/02/ubuntu-wont-play-avi-files/](http://www.lockergnome.com/linux/2007/07/02/ubuntu-wont-play-avi-files/)

It looks like the only solution is to use the Xine backend for Totem. But what if I would rather stick with Gstreamer? Is there a way to use Miro and Totem-Gstreamer at the same time?

---

### Post by 50words on 2007-12-06
Never mind. Solved the problem on my own. Installing libxine1-ffmpeg does the trick!

---

### Post by magiver on 2008-01-17
I just installed miro and ran into the same problem.
your post was the solution. 
thanks

---

### Post by alexgieg on 2008-01-25
I see this thread linked from others where people tell about problems with Miro, so I think it's a good place to share how I solved my own problems with it.

First, some information that might be related or not to this problem or not, I don't know.

When I was running Ubuntu's official nvidia-glx-new restricted driver, both my World of Warcraft as well as Miro were working perfectly. However, when I installed the bleeding edge nVidia drivers using [envy 0.9.9-0ubuntu6](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html) (newer versions were released since then, but I haven't used them yet), I noticed it changed my /etc/X11/xorg.conf in some subtle ways:

a) It moved my the line:

```
        Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
```

from the "Device" section to the end of the "Screen"  section.

b) It also added the following section to the file:

```
Section "Extensions"
        Option "MIT-SHM" "no"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
```

After this my WoW (which I run much more than Miro) become very "crashy", and I solved it by moving the *Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"* back to the "Device" section.

Things went okay for a while, with me being able to play my beloved WoW perfectly. Yesterday, however, I attempted running Miro, and it wouldn't display the video. Rather, pieces of the library screen would appear in the "square" where the video should be. Only the sound was visible.

After searching around and trying lots and lots of workarounds suggested for lots of distributions, none of which worked, I went to the console and run Miro by hand. I was going to copy its output and paste it here, of course. :) But then I noticed a line that appeared many times about MIT-SHM not being available in :0.0. Would it be *that* simple?

And yes, in fact it was. By changing the above mentioned line in the "Extensions" section from:

```
        Option "MIT-SHM" "no"
```

to

```
        Option "MIT-SHM" "yes"
```

and restarting X, now Miro can play videos perfectly again.

Searching around I discovered that this MIT-SHM extension allows softwares to access a same image in a shared region of memory without copying it back and forth, what speeds up image processing considerably. It's no surprise then that Miro would use it, and that it being disable would make things break.

I hope this helps!

UPDATE: After posting a bug report to Envy, its author contacted me saying Envy doesn't add or change the MIT-SHM line, that some other software must have added it, and since I don't know which one did it, this whole message might be summed up by this: "If you see a line saying "Option "MIT-SHM" "no"" in your xorg.conf, change the "no" to "yes" and Miro will probably work again."

I'll let the whole message here anyway. It might still prove useful for someone. ;)

---

### Post by TWFJR on 2008-01-30
Miro plays audio for video but no video.  This is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. I don't see         Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True" or Section "Extensions"
        Option "MIT-SHM" "no"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection. I have no knowledge of what this file should be.  Asking for help determining what is wrong with this file.

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV41.1 [GeForce 6800]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"AL2016W"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV41.1 [GeForce 6800]"
	Monitor		"AL2016W"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1360x850" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by alexgieg on 2008-01-30
> **TWFJR said:**
> Miro plays audio for video but no video.  This is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. I don't see Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True" or (. . .). I have no knowledge of what this file should be.  Asking for help determining what is wrong with this file.

I don't know whether this is related or not to you not being able to play videos, but your xorg.conf file isn't wrong. What happens is just that you're using the standard open source nVidia driver, rather than the proprietary driver. This is shown in this line in the Device section:

Driver "nv"

Go into System -> Administration -> Restricted Drivers, enable the restricted nVidia driver, and you'll get the version officially supported by Canonical.

Another option is to download and install the latest version of [Envy](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html), run it, then tell it to download and install the most recent version of the proprietary nVidia driver available at nVidia's website, usually better than the official Ubuntu one.

In either case, your xorg.conf will end up being changed, with the above line being replaced by:

Driver "nvidia"

And additional lines being added. This will mean you're using the proprietary driver.

Now, please notice this might or might not help you in having your Miro work. Try it and report what happened, okay? In case it doesn't work, you're probably missing codecs or something like that, so we'll look into installing those.

PS.1: In case your X-Window System for some arcane reason stops working after you install the new proprietary driver (either the officially supported or the bleeding edge ones), you can always go back to the standard driver by editing the xorg.conf file and replacing "nvidia" for "nv". Just Alt-F1 or Ctrl-Alt-F1 to a pure text console, login, make a backup copy of the xorg.conf file:

$ sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup

Fire a console editor such as nano:

$ sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Then edit the line accordingly, save the file, restart your computer:

$ sudo reboot

And your X will come back to life.

PS.2: Unless you have wacom input hardware (tablets, pens etc.), the three InputDevice sections mentioning "wacom" in their respective Driver lines on you xorg.conf are all useless. You can remove them and your X will continue working fine.

---

