---
title: "not able to change resolution"
date: 2009-03-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stephanagi on 2009-03-16
Dear All

Kubuntu 8.10

Some windows take a few extra seconds to paint on the scree (17inch wide screen).  When I maximise a window I lose the farthest right part of the window, the x out icon.  I can still see the maximise and minimise.  The resolution is too high and text and icons are too small.

I want to reduce the resolution as a way of improving these problems  I have seen these setting in two places:
1) K > System > System Settings > Display
2) K > System > KR and RTray Screen Resize & Rotate

When I chose either of these, the server exits to a login screen and I 
have to login again.  Odd, as I have used these before.  The most recent change I have made was in K > System > System Settings > 
Desktop -All Effects tab, where I unticked most of the 3D options and 
improved performance.

When I was using a 17inch normal ratio I had the resolution on 1024 X 768.  Since it is the width that has changed I looked at the options and set the resolution to 1152 X 864.  This is think is wrong since I only want to change over to the wide screen version of what I already had.  I think I should have set it to 1280 X 768.

But now I am stuck and unable to access these settings.

I would also like to reduce colour depth.  When I last looked at the 
settings for changing the resolution I did not see anything about 
reducing the colour depth.  I have looked around System Settings but cannot see where I do this.

I am sure I should be telling you more about the onboard Intel graphics card but I do not know where to find the information.  However, the computer has 1GB RAM, is a dual boot with XP

Any help appreciated

Stephen

---

### Post by HavocXphere on 2009-03-16
> **stephanagi said:**
> When I was using a 17inch normal ratio I had the resolution on 1024 X 768.  Since it is the width that has changed I looked at the options and set the resolution to 1152 X 864.  This is think is wrong since I only want to change over to the wide screen version of what I already had.  I think I should have set it to 1280 X 768.
Normal screens = 4/3 aspect ratio (i.e. 1024/768 =4/3)
Widescreen = 16/9 aspect ratio (i.e. 1920/1080 = 16/9)
Widescreen (Other type) = 16/10 aspect ratio (i.e. 1680/1050 = 16/10)

If you have a widescreen, then its likely that its an LCD screen. Those
have something called a native resolution, which depends on the model
you've got. You should use that resolution since anything is is likely
to look fuzzy.

> **stephanagi said:**
> I would also like to reduce colour depth.  When I last looked at the settings for changing the resolution I did not see anything about reducing the colour depth.
Why? High colour depth looks better and the performance difference is minimal. In some cases a lower colour depth can even lower performance.

Usually the resolution issues sort themselves out once you've got the right driver for your graphics card. This will also help with performance. Unfortunately I can't help you with the driver for the intel gfx.

As a last resort you can try forcing it the resolution you want (be careful though...some screen can be damaged if you force it to a wrong res):
[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3100136.msg161401#msg161401](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3100136.msg161401#msg161401)

---

### Post by stephanagi on 2009-03-16
Dear HavocXphere

Thanks for this and you have given me much to think about.  I checked and I cannot find a definitive statement about the Native Resolution.  I have found statements that say an NR figure which is bigger than the Maximum res stated on the tech specification.  However, it is a flat panel 16/9.  Thanks for mentioning that decreasing colour depth will not improve the situation.

Below/at the end is the content of /etc/X11/Xorg.conf
Assuming I want to make the resolution 1280 X 768 which is below the maximum res of 1440 X 900 what should I change?
Do I need some more info to be able to do this?
Will this give me back access to 
1) K > System > System Settings > Display
2) K > System > KR and RTray Screen Resize & Rotate ?

Any further help appreciated

Stephen

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool,
# using values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package 
# upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and
# settings here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically
# updated again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

