---
title: "10.04 nagging issues: flash, sound icon"
date: 2010-05-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by maxxum on 2010-05-29
I have a 10.04 x64 upgraded from 9.04. I would appreciate some help with these issues:

1) No sound when playing youtube videos. The videos play fine (I have Adobe flash plugin installed in firefox) but they show the sound muted. I cannot unmute it, and I cannot pause, stop or play the video. Those controls don't work. The video simply plays without sound.

2) the sound icon disappeared after upgrade. I have to make do with the "sound" shortcut which I added to the taskbar. I want the old speaker sign back which would let me increase/decrease/mute the volume without opening a separate sound properties window.

---

### Post by DagMan on 2010-05-29
For your Flash sound, if you aren't already using the 64 bit flash, but have the 32 bit flash with a wrapper to use it within the browser, then this might be the thing to do.
Here's the thread that worked for me a while back
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1358591](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1358591)
And another one with a more recent update timestamp, but that I haven't used
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1414595](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1414595)

It seems, and perhaps I'm wrong but the new GUI threw me and I just can't remember since I've been using other Operating Systems a lot, that the volume control is no longer a single gnome-panel widget, but that it also has a mail client, and in my case the battery monitor, attached to it.  I'm not a Linux machine so I can't look and see what the panel applet is called.  I'm guessing, however, that your upgrade wasn't a clean install and the applet simply doesn't exist anymore, or at least that it goes by a different name.  Have a look and see if there's any new obscure panel applets.

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2010-05-29
It's called the 'indicator applet'.

---

### Post by maxxum on 2010-05-29
> **Joe of loath said:**
> It's called the 'indicator applet'.
Thanks, that gave me back the sound icon. As for flash, I just used what Firefox suggested. The 32 bit wrapping is quite an old way I guess and I don't think I did this. I will uninstall Adobe plugin and retry.

---

