---
title: "11.10 Not booting"
date: 2011-12-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-12-26
I had been running Ubuntu 11.10 for a couple of months and just ultimately didn't like it.  I decided to format and install kubuntu 11.10.

The installation went fine.

HOWEVER, i was given the option to install GRUB to either sda or sdb.

sda is an ntfs 1TB drive that I store nothing but data on.  

sdb contains my OS and such (it's a solid state HDD, which is very fast).

I chose to install GRUB to sdb, which is where the OS will be.  I'm not sure if this matters, but I just wanted to note it.

I changed the setting in my BIOS so that my solid state HDD (aka sdb) was the boot priority over the 1TB data drive.

However, upon boot, I never get a GRUB menu, but it does attempt to boot linux.  It eventually hangs at "Checking battery state...".  I can still login to other ttys by using CTRL+ALT+<number>.

So my questions are...

[LIST=1]
[*]What's going on here?
[*]Why is this occuring?
[*]How do I figure out exactly what it's hanging on?
[/LIST]

---

### Post by dabl on 2011-12-26
When you have no other OS's or kernels on the system, it bypasses the boot menu.  If you want to see it, hold down the Shift key after your POST screens.

Since you can get to a tty console, you could run ```
dmesg | most
``` and maybe see where exactly it is hanging. It sounds like maybe something power-related, like acpi.  But do check dmesg to verify.

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2011-12-26
You can get the grub menu by holding Shift when you boot. It'll stop it from auto skipping past it. If you get that, you should be able to boot to recovery.

Most likely you're hanging at checking battery state as X is hanging just after it and the battery state was the last thing before hand. That can usually be fixed by reinstalling the video drivers. I'm going to assume it's an nvidia? Or is it something else?

---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-12-26
> **dabl said:**
> When you have no other OS's or kernels on the system, it bypasses the boot menu.  If you want to see it, hold down the Shift key after your POST screens.

Good to know, thanks.

> 

Since you can get to a tty console, you could run ```
dmesg | most
``` and maybe see where exactly it is hanging. It sounds like maybe something power-related, like acpi.  But do check dmesg to verify.

Well, it keeps saying "init: apport [pre-start process (9136) terminated with status 1."

Ditto for post-start process.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-12-26
> **xyzzyman said:**
> 
Most likely you're hanging at checking battery state as X is hanging just after it and the battery state was the last thing before hand. That can usually be fixed by reinstalling the video drivers. I'm going to assume it's an nvidia? Or is it something else?

Yep, nvidia.  I guess this is a common problem?

While I was waiting for you guys to reply, I did a sudo apt-get upgrade via one of the ttys.  

I just rebooted it and KDE loaded just fine.  So I guess one of the updates fixed it?

I'm glad this is fixed, but I'd still like to know why it broke.

Anyone have any idea what those dmesg outputs were telling us?

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2011-12-26
apport is used to reporting a crash. most likely the graphics were crashing for xorg and kdm kept restarting itself and causing crash dumps. I've seen it happen that way with ATI cards, but usually it's nvidia and installing or updating to the latest nvidia driver takes care of it. Checking battery state just happens to be the very last thing that's printed so when I first encountered it I thought it was something with the battery until I took a look at the logs.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-12-27
> **xyzzyman said:**
> apport is used to reporting a crash. 

So apport is just a crash reporter?

> most likely the graphics were crashing for xorg and kdm kept restarting itself and causing crash dumps. I've seen it happen that way with ATI cards, but usually it's nvidia and installing or updating to the latest nvidia driver takes care of it. 

Which explains why my update fixed it.

Here's what I don't get, though - When I did an install, I checked a box that said to download updated software during the install, or so I thought.  Shouldn't that have prevented this issue?

> Checking battery state just happens to be the very last thing that's printed so when I first encountered it I thought it was something with the battery until I took a look at the logs.

Yeah, I kind of had a feeling that that was the case, especially since it's a desktop PC.

So the log I should be looking at for boot errors is /var/log/dmesg?

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2011-12-27
A more in depth explanation of apport: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apport](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apport)

And even if you check to download updated software during installation, there is still usually a few hundred megs of updates to do. I really don't know what if anything is downloaded during install other than I do see when it says, "Downloading language packs". If you want to install with everything up to date you can always use the text based minimal-install, but then you don't get to browse on firefox while it installs or play solitaire.

---

