---
title: "14.81Gb used .... for what?"
date: 2013-03-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nickdc on 2013-03-08
I've just reformatted a 1tb drive to use for backup. It has a single partition, which I've formatted to ext4 using Gparted. At the end of the process Gparted shows that 14.81 Gb is "used". This should be an empty drive. (I know about Lost & Found folder, but does that claim that much space even before there's anything to lose or find?) OK, on a terrabite drive a mere 15gb doesn't seem much, but I remember the days when the network manager at the school where I worked boasted that we had 3gb of storage, enough, he thought then, to future-proof the entire school network! So ... I still think 14.81 gigabites is *quite a lot of space*! What's it used for?

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-03-08
5% is reserved for system use--emergency space--when the file system becomes full.  The rest is probably ext4 markers for the file system.  Although 5% is ~50GB, so I really don't know.

---

### Post by nickdc on 2013-03-08
Ah! Thanks for the quick reply. (But surely 5% of a terrabyte is 50gb, not 150? Still, that's way more that the 15 mine has reserved. Perhaps there's a cut-off point for larger drives?)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2013-03-08
You can control the amount of reserved space during formatting by using the "-m" parameter to e2fsck.  The 5% default comes from the days when drives were measured in megabytes and is too large, in my opinion, to use on modern drives with hundreds or thousands of gigabytes.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2013-03-08
> **nickdc said:**
> I've just reformatted a 1tb drive to use for backup. It has a single partition, which I've formatted to ext4 using Gparted. At the end of the process Gparted shows that 14.81 Gb is "used". This should be an empty drive. (I know about Lost & Found folder, but does that claim that much space even before there's anything to lose or find?) OK, on a terrabite drive a mere 15gb doesn't seem much, but I remember the days when the network manager at the school where I worked boasted that we had 3gb of storage, enough, he thought then, to future-proof the entire school network! So ... I still think 14.81 gigabites is *quite a lot of space*! What's it used for?

So that's 1.5%? [http://askubuntu.com/questions/131516/new-ext4-partition-and-used-space](http://askubuntu.com/questions/131516/new-ext4-partition-and-used-space) has a great explanation:

> ext4 creates a lot of overhead before any files are created. It does not mean it is "worse" than ext3. If you fill that partition with files, you will notice that ext3's (and NTFS's) overhead will grow proportionally with the files, as with ext4 it will basically remain constant forever.

By "pre-allocating" the overhead, it can manage it much better than a growing one. So ext4 is just doing now what ext3 would do later.

Besides, 27G may look a lot, but it's still a mere 1.5% overhead. 

HTH

---

### Post by nickdc on 2013-03-08
OK, that makes sense; I feel better about it now! Thanks for the info folks.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-03-08
I must be losing my mind.  The 5% reserve comes from loading a file system, not simply formatting to ext4.  The used space, as others have noted, by ext4 is used for journalling--caching of disk writes and file pointers that are used to recover the file system in the event of sudden shutdown.  For a large disk, this could potentially be a large journal, so more space is needed.  You could save space by using ext2, but then you don't get the recovery features.  So once you load linux onto it, be prepared to lose another 5%, unless you change it using *tunefs*.

---

