---
title: "11.10 x64 Desktop Cube 6 workspaces"
date: 2012-03-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nickhuh on 2012-03-21
desktop cube works fine but how do i get work spaces on the top and bottom of the cube?

thanks

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-03-21
You don't. The top and bottom are just for show.

You can, however, add extra workspaces to make the "cube" have five or more sides.

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2012-03-21
can you imagine having top and bottom workspaces? all your workspaces would change orientation all the time! wouldn't having sideways/upside-down workspaces be weird!?!?

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-03-21
> **HiImTye said:**
> can you imagine having top and bottom workspaces? all your workspaces would change orientation all the time! wouldn't having sideways/upside-down workspaces be weird!?!?
I'm sure the programmers would ensure that the faces would always rotate to the correct orientation when settling on a face. And it would be fun! I'd love to see it done that way.

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2012-03-21
it was more an illustrative joke, but the idea would be interesting to see

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-03-21
It would be strange for say widescreen where all sides are 1920x1080, but the top is suddenly 1920x1920 and the scaling can distort the image. Also, it will not work with sphere and cylinder deformations.

---

### Post by nickhuh on 2012-03-23
> **Paddy Landau said:**
> You don't. The top and bottom are just for show.

You can, however, add extra workspaces to make the "cube" have five or more sides.

So say i add 6 work spaces then the "cube" is going to have the top and bottom filled with work spaces?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-03-23
Hi, no you can not add it to the top and bottom they are just there for looks.
Thanks

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-03-24
> **nickhuh said:**
> So say i add 6 work spaces then the "cube" is going to have the top and bottom filled with work spaces?
No. The cube will gain 6 extra sides to become a hendecagon. The top and bottom are just for show, as already said.

Why don't you try it and see?

---

