---
title: "10.04 hangs apparently at random + suspend issues"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wd5gnr on 2010-05-01
Well I had a perfectly good 9.10 system and upgraded to 10.04. Some problems but in the end, all working ok EXCEPT... now if I leave the computer for any length of time it is likely to hang hard. No num lock and no Alt+SysReq REISUB will do anything with it. Sometimes the screen saver is showing and sometimes nothing. 

It does not appear that it ever hangs in just normal use. That I can tell. I went and disabled all the power management that sleeps the screen, but that doesn't seem to help.

Nothing in /var/messages that I can see. Also nothing in the kernel log.

Just for fun I decided to see if the computer could suspend to RAM since I thought maybe something was trying to suspend it and failed. That didn't work. Rebooted the machine as did suspend to disk. Now I don't know if that was working before because I never use it.

So I guess the general question is: What can I do to troubleshoot this issue? I guess one thing to do would be let it run with no apps overnight and see if it is hung in the morning. If not, try leaving it idle with different apps running. But could be almost anything else too.

Then the suspend issues may or may not be related. Should I expect this to work? The howto on the Wiki is way out of date.

---

### Post by colpanik on 2010-05-05
I'm having the same freezing problem with the system freezing. This is after a fresh install using Kubuntu 10.04. Shut off powerstep and virtualization support for the cpu and it makes no difference. 

Going to try Debian on the same hardware to see if this is a software or hardware problem.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2010-05-05
Try turning off the screen saver, go to a blank screen. It may be a graphics driver issue brought on by the requirements of the screen saver.

---

### Post by wd5gnr on 2010-05-12
I haven't returned to the suspend/resume (since I don't use them on a desktop -- I know, I know, I'm not green). But the hangs apparently were due to having enhanced wait turned on in the BIOS. So could be a mobo issue that never showed up before.

What alarmed me was the total lack of information about the crash, but I guess if the CPU just died its hard to log anything ;-)

I say apparently because that seems to have fixed it but, of course, with something like this you never know for certain.

---

### Post by wd5gnr on 2010-05-23
Spoke too soon. After 9 days uptime the hangs have come back. I can't figure out what's going on. However, using the SVN version of Handbreak to rip a DVD appears to pretty consistently either hang or cause Handbreak to segfault.

---

