---
title: "8.10 -&gt; 9.04 update boots to blank screen, Live CD endless reboot w/safe graphic mode"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bcolven on 2009-04-28
Hello,

I first started using Linux by trying out 8.10 on an old P3 desktop with a Voodoo card in it.  I did a fresh install of 8.10 a few months back onto a blank 120GB drive.  The other day I started the update to Jaunty.  I was running a LAMP setup so it asked me about replacing some mysql files and php stuff.  It finally finished but now it boots up to a blank screen.  I can hear my old CRT monitor switching as if the video card is trying to output different resolutions.  But nothing is coming up.

I tried to do a few fixes I found on the net using the recovery mode but nothing.  So I burned Jaunty onto a CD and decided to test out the Live CD (something I'll do first next time).  It boots up to a blank screen as well so I used the safe graphics mode and it displays the username screen.  If I wait and let it auto login it sits there for a few seconds then the screen goes blank and it appears to be restarting ubuntu.  If I try my username it doesn't seem to work (understandable since it's booting from the CD and not the harddrive).  So I think it has something to do with the video card.  I guess if I can't figure this out I'll try replacing the video card for some other old card.  My hope is to do a fresh install of 9.04 but just need some tips on how to get around this blank screen issue.

I'm fairly new to Linux so I'm not quite sure what I should be trying.  It took me 10-20minutes to figure out how to mount a network share to back up my files from 8.10

Any tips?

---

### Post by lavallie on 2009-05-04
I can't tell you how to get out of the loop your in.

I had to reload and install again.  I did however discover one thing about the install that may cause the problem.

At one point during the upgrade it asks whether you want to replace the configuration file?

The first time I said yes and got the blank screen.

Second time I said NO and here I am typing away on my new upgrade!!!

Hope this helps someone.:):):)

---

### Post by Brainy142 on 2009-05-04
I had to not make a /home folder.

---

