---
title: "14.04, no option for digital audio out (hdmi/displayport) (Thinkcentre M58p Intel)"
date: 2015-10-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by adenw on 2015-10-26
I bought a Thinkcentre M58p to use as a media center. I just installed 14.04 and it runs well, and I'm outputting video to my TV via a displayport-to-HDMI adapter. The video works fine, but when I go to system settings to change the sound output to digital out (by the displayport), there are only Analog options, no option to output via displayport. It is the same in PulseAudio Volume Control.

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: AD1882 Analog [AD1882 Analog]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 2: AD1882 Alt Analog [AD1882 Alt Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

The graphics is Intel® Q45/Q43.

In alsamixer under system information, under /proc/asound/devices there are some lines such as "3: [ 0- 0]: digital audio playback," which gives me some hope... I know some Lenovo devices are not able to output via displayport, so I'm crossing my fingers that's not the case. It's the whole reason I bought the computer. If it is though, what are my alternatives? Is there such a thing as a USB-toslink adapter?

Keep in mind I am very new to Linux so a lot of the terminology is lost on me initially.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-10-26
**aplay -l**
Please post this command+output inside "code tags".

Also, please post **sudo lshw -C multimedia** output similarly.

---

### Post by adenw on 2015-10-31
Hi, thanks for highlighting the use of code tags, I knew I had to do something like that. In the end I determined it was a hardware issue and circumvented the problem by buying a USB-to-SPDIF converter that any USB-enabled computer can use. For anyone with a similar problem, you can buy them on Amazon Prime for roughly $40. Just be sure it supports the right bitrates.

---

