---
title: "177.80 nvidia driver"
date: 2008-10-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mastahchanta on 2008-10-09
Is there any deb file to install it or do you know how to install this driver in 8.04?

---

### Post by forger on 2008-10-09
May I ask why? If your driver and graphics card work, don't look for updates :)

You can get the newest drivers through envyng-gtk.
Install it with terminal command:
```
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
```

Applications > System tools > EnvyNG

If it's not there or in any menu section, try in the terminal:
```
envyng -t
```
..then you can use the textual guide

---

### Post by norwoods on 2008-10-09
you need to download the driver from nvidia and run this script in the same directory. you may need to change the driver file name as i used the 64 bit version.  i use this script named nv_inst.sh:

# to run this 
# ctl-alt-F1
# login
# run sudo sh ./nv_inst.sh

# try to get rid of old nvidia installations
nvidia-installer --uninstall
apt-get remove --purge nvidia*

# stop xserver
/etc/init.d/gdm stop

# stop opengl
for every in `ps ax| grep glx | awk '{ print $1 }'`; do kill -9 $every; done;

# get headers for compile
apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`

# make file executable
chmod +x NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-177.80-pkg2.run

# execute
./NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-177.80-pkg2.run

# restart xserver
/etc/init.d/gdm start

---

### Post by fooman on 2008-10-09
very cool norwoods....thanks for that. :)

---

### Post by forger on 2008-10-10
fooman, why not the "safer" way with envy? envyng installs a debianized package of that driver.
Note that when upgrading from hardy to e.g. intrepid, you will have to uninstall the driver from the nvidia website :)

---

### Post by fooman on 2008-10-10
yeah,  i've used envy and its worked great.  but i like to try out the latest drivers when they're released.  

i don't think envy has the 177.80 just yet.

---

### Post by senectus on 2008-10-10
having broken my box many many times trying the various different ways to manually install nvidia drivers envy is bloody brilliant!

but no, it doesn't have 177.80 in it yet.
Does anyone know how to fix this?
Or is choosing the manual install in envy safe enough?

---

### Post by war59312 on 2008-10-10
Excellent script norwoods, thanks a lot!

---

### Post by ksugu2 on 2008-10-11
am using ubuntu for nvidia driver ..
is there anything in the new driver(NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-177.80) which is equivalent to setting "GPUOverclockingState=1".

I used to set the value to 1 and then tried to modify the GPU freq. But that option is entirely not available and i understand there must be something which replaced that 'GPUOverclockingState' setting .. otherwise is it a bug ?

---

