---
title: "[20.04.2] Change Filesystem Label"
date: 2021-04-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Graham1 on 2021-04-10
Hi All

Is it safe to change the filesystem label for any partition using Disks (edit filesystem...) or will this cause problems? 

:)

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2021-04-10
It depends on whether you have mounts defined by filesystem label. Some people do this. I believe that the OS defines mounts with UUID, so if you haven't set up your own mounts or customized those defined by the system by default, you should be okay. However, it is impossible to guess what your situation is without a lot more data.

---

### Post by Graham1 on 2021-04-10
Earlier, I setup two partitions with 20.04 and 20.10. Currently, both are listed as "Filesystem" and neither can see each other. Would changing the label on the non-mounted partition (from 20.04) cause issues when 20.10 is next loaded and vice versa? The mount partition appears as UUID and the non-mounted partition, \dev\disk\by-uuid and I'm guessing this is reversed when the other version is running. Please let me know if your require further info.

:)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-04-10
The Disks utility will show every partition that has been formatted (Ext4) and containing a Linux operating system as Linux File System. A partition that has been formatted (Ext4) but without a Linux OS, such as a partition for data, will be shown as Partition Type Linux.

I have several partitions with different versions of Ubuntu and other Linux distributions on them. I can access each of these partitions through the File Manager (Files) under the Other Locations tab and I can see all the folders on that partition. I can copy and paste and move files between these partitions. 

What do you wish to do that you are not able to do and how are you trying to do it?

When I install an additional version of Ubuntu I keep the same user name and password. This might be a factor that helps me. Otherwise I might need to be administrator (sudo) to access folders and files on the other partitions.

Regards

---

### Post by Graham1 on 2021-04-11
> **grahammechanical said:**
> What do you wish to do that you are not able to do and how are you trying to do it?

This is more of a cosmetic thing than functional. I have since gone back to the one partition (20.04) rather than the two (20.04 and 20.10). Just wanted to label the partitions, so they are easy to identify (visually). Disks looked like it was able to do this, without touching the CLI.

> When I install an additional version of Ubuntu I keep the same user name and password. This might be a factor that helps me. Otherwise I might need to be administrator (sudo) to access folders and files on the other partitions.

Same here. I have a shared area on another disk which was accessible by both.

:)

---

