---
title: "8.04.1 LTS - &quot;sudo su&quot; Can't Login"
date: 2009-01-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iissmart on 2009-01-22
Sorry if this has been posted, but the search function seems to be broken at the moment (database error). This is what I'm trying to do:

```
iissmart@allah:~$ sudo su
Password:
su: Authentication failure
iissmart@allah:~$
```

I have already authenticated myself with sudo once before, otherwise it would show the "[sudo] Password for iissmart:" line first, then just "Password:".

Same thing happens if I just try to use "su -".

I'm pretty sure I haven't changed the root password...how can I return it to the normal functionality?

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-22
For normal functionality you need to lock the root account again. It never should have been unlocked the first time as it poses a security risk.

To lock the root account:


sudo passwd root -l

---

### Post by iissmart on 2009-01-22
Are those parameters in the right spot? Looks like that command would set the root password to "-l", not lock the root account.

I have never heard of "locking the root account" before, but I did some googling...but it's still not working.

```
iissmart@allah:~$ sudo passwd -l root
Password changed.
iissmart@allah:~$ sudo su
Password:
su: Authentication failure
iissmart@allah:~$
```

Thanks for the quick reply though!

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-22
The root account is locked by default in Ubuntu. It is the only distro that I know of that comes that way by default.

Try this:


sudo -i

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-01-22
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

---

### Post by iissmart on 2009-01-22
Oh, so this was something recently changed in a package update, it's not something misconfigured in my system, right? That's what I was worried about.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-01-22
> **Titan8990 said:**
> For normal functionality you need to lock the root account again. It never should have been unlocked the first time as it poses a security risk.
.......

Firstly - rubbish - unlocking the root account does not affect "normal functionality" in any manner.

Secondly - any "security risk" is minor and not an issue for anyone who understands the environment they use their computer in.

Since Ubuntu is targeted at people who **don't** understand the environment they use their computer in, it was obviously decided it is better to have Ubuntu default to having the root account disabled - which is fair enough.

---

