---
title: "6.06 or 6.10?"
date: 2007-02-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by theaverageidiot on 2007-02-13
I'm reformatting my friends computer for him and giving him Ubuntu for the first time. I have 6.10 and had a hell of a time to get wireless working. I tried 6.10 on his (live CD no install) with no wireless and I don't want to have to go through it again. 6.06 gives him wireless though. Is there a huge difference between 6.06 and 6.10 or should I just go ahead with 6.06?

---

### Post by justin whitaker on 2007-02-13
> **theaverageidiot said:**
> I'm reformatting my friends computer for him and giving him Ubuntu for the first time. I have 6.10 and had a hell of a time to get wireless working. I tried 6.10 on his (live CD no install) with no wireless and I don't want to have to go through it again. 6.06 gives him wireless though. Is there a huge difference between 6.06 and 6.10 or should I just go ahead with 6.06?

Edgy is more up to date, application/kernel version wise, and there are some things that they changed in the back end because of those changes....I noticed that some things I need, like USB PnP do not always work in Edgy, where they worked fine in Dapper. 

My thought would be that Edgy is more cutting edge than the LTS, and hence, more prone to break. If he is a new Linux user, I would give them Dapper.

---

### Post by etank on 2007-02-13
I agree that Dapper would be the way to go if the user is new to Linux period. If they have used Linux in the past then it would be fine to use Edgy.

---

### Post by scottym on 2007-02-13
I just upgraded, well about two weeks ago, from 6.06 to 6.10. From what I can tell, they both operate the same. I couldn't load pages with firefox after the upgrade until I downloaded Gnome-ppp but everything else worked just like it did before. I would just go with 6.10 to avoid updating later on and to make later upgrades remember to create a /home partition.

---

### Post by MCSE_Crossover on 2007-02-13
I like 6.10. I actually had some issues with kernel conflict on newer hardware when I tried to install 6.06 before edgy came out...but that is either here nor there.

What are the issues that you are having? Are you having to use ndiswrapper to load the wireless drivers? Part of the problem you may have is that Edgy provides drivers that just may not be functioning correctly. This is what happened with me using the Realtek 8187 drivers. You may have to manually blacklist the kernel drivers if they are indeed loading. They will conflict with the drivers you are trying to load with ndiswrapper. You have to add the appropriate kernel module to the /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist file...

Let me know if i'm on the right track with things...

---

