---
title: ".ICEauthority, kde cannot start!help!"
date: 2006-02-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joey111 on 2006-02-16
hi leute,
i got a problem with kde 3.5.1 and ubuntu 5.10:

suddenly it says:
:-could not write to /home/martin/.ICEauthority.
check your installation.
-danach could not start ksmserver.
during booting: could not mount local filesystems.
i only can in recoverymodus do startx, then  gnome boots,
but when i normally want to start xfce or  kde starte it stops. startx or  xinit dont help, please guys
thanx a lot

---

### Post by GeneralZod on 2006-02-16
In the recovery console, simply reclaim ownership of the named file by doing:

```

sudo chown martin:users /home/martin/.ICEauthority

```

(assuming your username is "martin" ;)) and that should fix it up :)

---

### Post by macerata on 2006-02-16
I'm suddenly getting similar under Gnome - some problem with .ICEauthority.

I thought it was something I'd done, so I tried a fresh instal and also tried upgrading to dapper.  No joy and I haven't got the slightest idea what's going on.

---

### Post by macerata on 2006-02-16
Thanks GeneralZod - it worked a treat.  The question is why did this happen?  I noticed on gkrellm that my cpu activity was going through the roof, so I rebooted only for this error to occur.  Are the two linked?

---

### Post by engla on 2006-02-16
This is a problem. It has happened on some of my installs and it's almost like some patch should be applied to fix this lazily (fix the permissions if they are wrong). 

Nothing wrong with fixing bugs for real, but if the cause can't be found....

---

### Post by bulldogzerofive on 2006-02-17
[QUOTE=macerata]The question is why did this happen?  I noticed on gkrellm that my cpu activity was going through the roof, so I rebooted only for this error to occur.  Are the two linked?[/QUOTE]

I think this usually happens when you use the command line and sudo to run a graphical application.  For example, I was logged in and typed: sudo konqueror.  After that, no love at the log in screen for that user.

I think it also happens if you do not log out cleanly, say if you just hit the reset button instead of logging out and shutting down.

Just a thought.

---

### Post by macerata on 2006-02-17
Yes!  I both used the command line under root to start a graphical application AND didn't log out cleanly.

Problem solved!

---

### Post by joey111 on 2006-02-17
what u also could do is ( for me it worked yesterday) just delete or rename the file .ICEauthority.
thx guys

---

### Post by Abandon on 2006-02-17
When you need to run a graphical application with root permissions than you HAVE to use the gksudo command in a terminal. You now know what happens if you use the sudo command instead. ;-)

---

### Post by coolclassic on 2006-02-17
An easy fix is to delete the file,KDE will create an new ICEauthority.

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2006-02-17
This happened to me when I was trying to use guarddog under gnome. I did a sudo guarddog, everything worked normally, until I logged out and logged in to check my gdm theme. Nothing worked except xfce...

I had to delete my .Xauthority and .ICEauthority for everything to work..

---

### Post by gingermark on 2006-02-17
[QUOTE=Abandon]When you need to run a graphical application with root permissions than you HAVE to use the gksudo command in a terminal. You now know what happens if you use the sudo command instead. ;-)[/QUOTE]
I take it kdesu is the exact equivalent? I always thought it was. They don't differ apart from their native environments do they?

It would be nice if there was a program or script that would run the chown and chmod commands on the home directory when you logout.

EDIT: And the number of instructions you see that tell someone to "sudo gedit" something (or kedit, or whatever) suggests that this isn't entirely true (I would consider gedit a "graphical application")

---

### Post by macerata on 2006-02-17
Deleting .ICEauthority didn't work for me under Gnome.

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2006-02-17
[quote=macerata]Deleting .ICEauthority didn't work for me under Gnome.[/quote] Delete .Xauthority too.

Then do a restart.

If you installed guarddog, you might want to do a sudo apt-get remove --purge guarddog

---

