---
title: "22.04: What's the &quot;official&quot; GID for Sambashare today?"
date: 2022-09-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-09-28
Sambashare used to have GID 1000 in previous distributions, which is creating problems when restoring backups etc.
What's the official Sambashare GID so I can send it to interstellar space without future problems? Right now I've set it to 900, but whether that's OK I don't know.

Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-09-28
gids are assigned in the order of package installations. I suspect you are confused about sambashare being 1000, since the first user created on ubuntu gets the uid=1000 and gid=1000.

Those numbers are usually not "assigned" or static, except 1 - root is always "0".  Some other Unix distros choose a different first human user uid/gid than 1000. There is no standard.

You should use the 'getent' command to lookup anything in the passwd or group DBs.  BTW, any scripts should never look for "root" as the username either, they should always check the uid is '0', if they are seeking the root user (or a root equivalent user)

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-09-28
I think you misunderstand me, and reading my OP I'm with that.
I only install LTS versions, so I've gone from 20.04 to 22.04.
In 20.04, GID=1000 was "sambashare", which meant that the first user UID/GIDs were 1000/1001. Somewhat odd, but OK.
In 22.04, this is no longer the case. The installer now assigns first user UID/GID as 1000/1000. Which means that when restoring a system backup, group name is suddenly "sambashare".
Again my question: is there a safe GID that will send sambashare to the dark side of the moon? I use GID=900 as mentioned, but am not certain if it's reserved for other things. I just need a safe, neutral GID.

Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-09-28
> **ne29914 said:**
> I think you misunderstand me, and reading my OP I'm with that.
I only install LTS versions, so I've gone from 20.04 to 22.04.
In 20.04, GID=1000 was "sambashare", which meant that the first user UID/GIDs were 1000/1001. Somewhat odd, but OK.
In 22.04, this is no longer the case. The installer now assigns first user UID/GID as 1000/1000. Which means that when restoring a system backup, group name is suddenly "sambashare".
Again my question: is there a safe GID that will send sambashare to the dark side of the moon? I use GID=900 as mentioned, but am not certain if it's reserved for other things. I just need a safe, neutral GID.

Thanks.

There are NO reserved uid or gid, except 0, which is for root or root-equivalent.
Any gid that isn't 0 or already used can be used for any purpose.  900 isn't an error. 

The situation you had on 20.04 is odd and not the standard. I can't guess how that happened, unless an admin manually changed the group name.  In 20.04, the first user created during install gets the uid and gid of 1000. It has been that way in Ubuntu since the first release and I've not seen it change.

I would be worried about using 900, since the way that some "give me the next available daemon gid" algorythms work is to find the highest gid that is under 1000, then add 1 more to it.  I don't know if all of them work this way or not. My guess would be that choosing a gid that is 1 higher than the current highest in the sub-1000 range would be safer, but there are 32K uids and gids that can be used on a Linux system (INT).

As for restore issues, that's cause because you didn't correctly merge the old and new passwd/group files.  Any existing userids or groupids from the installation need to remain where they were and the numbers from the backup need to be noted so you can go through the file system to change the owner and groups for any files (usually data files) that have the pre-restore numbers to what the current install has.  The 'find' command is handy for that.   The owner and group on a file/directory are just those numbers from the passwd and group DBs, which are returned by the 'getent' command.

I did a fresh install of 20.04 over the weekend as part of my migration off 18.04 on that specific system.  On the old OS, the gid for media files was set to jellyfin (a media center), but in the new install, that gid mapped to the libvirt gid instead.  So I had to change the gid for all media files and directories to be jellyfin AFTER I did the package install and saw what the groupid was for it.  Of course, I also had to fix the libvirt group files where that made sense too ... mostly under /var/lib/libvirt/ ... 

Hopefully, that helps a little.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-09-29
Update: I found the answer myself.
Did a "virgin" install of 22.04.1 including formatting of all partitions on a spare machine.
First user UID:GID = 1000:1000.
Sambashare GID = 999.
Dunno what went wrong on my 20.04 installs earlier...

Thanks, solved.

---

