---
title: "12.04 nautilus and sshfs"
date: 2012-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lionslair on 2012-05-04
After upgrading to ubuntu 12.04 my two sshfs mounts to my server no longer work within nautilus.

I get the below errors on both mounts

```
Error: Error when getting information for file '/home/nathanr/rzepecki-05/nathanr': Input/output error
Please select another viewer and try again.
```

and 

```
Error: Error when getting information for file '/home/nathanr/rzepecki-05/public': Input/output error
Please select another viewer and try again.
```

It seems it has no permissions

```
nathanr@nathanr-desktop:~$ ll rzepecki-05/
ls: cannot access rzepecki-05/public: Input/output error
ls: cannot access rzepecki-05/nathanr: Input/output error
total 8
drwxr-xr-x  4 nathanr nathanr 4096 Jul 26  2011 ./
drwxr-xr-x 62 nathanr nathanr 4096 May  3 19:21 ../
d?????????  ? ?       ?          ?            ? nathanr/
d?????????  ? ?       ?          ?            ? public/
nathanr@nathanr-desktop:~$ chmod 755 -R rzepecki-05/
chmod: cannot access `rzepecki-05/public': Input/output error
chmod: cannot access `rzepecki-05/nathanr': Input/output error
nathanr@nathanr-desktop:~$ 
```

This has always worked fine in the past before the upgrade. 

my mount commands run fine and return no errors. The logins are accessible via ssh and sftp etc.

Anyone else know what is going on here or have the same problem?

---

### Post by ppparadox on 2012-05-05
My sshfs works just fine with Ubuntu 12.04.
By the way i'm not using Unity but GNOME shell. 
I think sshfs is not the problem, i suggest you investigate further.

---

### Post by lionslair on 2012-05-05
The Input output error has me stumped as to why?

---

### Post by ppparadox on 2012-05-05
Does it happen every time you access the same files\dirs?
Do the files work if you simply ssh there and try to use them?
Could be a file system problem?

---

### Post by lionslair on 2012-05-05
Yes if I ssh / sftp / smb to the folders they are fine. Can access them and save and retrieve from them as normal. Just not via my sshfs mounts anymore.

Maybe I should run spinrite over this HDD.

---

### Post by dhavale on 2012-05-07
I am facing the exact same problem with sshfs. I had not noticed the error with nautilus until I saw your post. I can confirm I get the same error. I think it is not a problem with nautilus but with the sshfs. Some initial google searches led me to the post [http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.comp.file-systems.fuse.sshfs/1189](http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.comp.file-systems.fuse.sshfs/1189) 
The proposed solution is to add trailing "/" to the remote mount location. However this did not help me. So I think something else is wrong. I did not have the problem before upgrade to 12.04. It is broken now after upgrade.

---

### Post by veniatregnum on 2012-05-10
I had the same issue after upgrading to 12.04 - It did resolve once I added the trailing "/" to the remote directory however.

Not sure why it didn't fix it for you. I have an alias set up for my remote mount commands under my .bashrc file. Took me a couple tries before I remembered that I needed to restart the terminal before any changes (i.e. adding the "/" ) took effect. Hopefully it's something simple like that as to why your sshfs isn't working and you can get it up and running again.

---

### Post by dhavale on 2012-05-15
Thanks for input veniatregnum! But it did not help me. After a lot of frustration I build sshfs (2.4) and FUSE from the source but problem still persisted. Trailing "/" trick did not work here either.  But out of the blue I tried something different and it worked.

The problem: The remote mount point was a symlink to different directory.

/home/dhavale ->> /home/h2/dhavale

Solution: Use absolute path instead of symlink. So when i used "/home/h2/dhavale" in my mount command, it worked.

This used to work before. The behavior is broken. Surprising thing is it is still broken in latest sshfs/FUSE. I think not many people have the unfortunate configuration as me thats why it is still unnoticed.

Hopefully this thread helps other seeking the solution for this problem. Thanks everyone for the help! 

If possible,please mark thread as [SOLVED] so people can easily find this.

---

### Post by lionslair on 2012-05-21
I had not seen these updates but had been trying to get around this issue. Yes the fix for me was adding the / to the end of the remote path. Really annoying as I was having to do some painful work around just to access my mounts. Glad we found a solution. But disappointed some others are still having issues.

---

### Post by cacycleworks on 2012-06-05
> **veniatregnum said:**
> I had the same issue after upgrading to 12.04 - It did resolve once I added the trailing "/" to the remote directory however.

OMG, this happened to me. After spending hours troubleshooting .ssh/config and ssh and everything, I decided to google ```
ubuntu 12.04 sshfs amazon d????????? input/output error
``` and stumbled upon this thread.

How does sshfs get screwed up? :mad:

---

