---
title: "8.04 = Windows ME?"
date: 2008-07-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by VEGAMO on 2008-07-10
I've been using Linux for more than a year now, yes I had my share of problems for quiet sometime but non ever reached a level of the stupidity I started facing when using 8.04.

Seriously, can I operate my computer for more than 10 minutes without having to restart it?

After 10 minutes of use everything decides to not work, Firefox doesn't open, sound card stops functioning, hell I can't even shut the computer without holding the power button. 

Is this a joke or is this the Linux version of Windows ME? 

My machine isn't a beast, but should run this operating system without a problem:
Pentium D (2.80GHZ)
2.5 GB Ram
6200 Nvidia LE

I mean come on, is it just me or are there many others dealing with this crap?

---

### Post by NikoC on 2008-07-10
Now I'm not really sure what you expect from writing up such a post in this forum? Is this a request for help? If so, be more specific about your problems... which hardware do you use, are they known issues with your machine? Is your ubuntu installation up to date?

If this is a rant, you should post in the Community cafe subsection...

Cheers.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2008-07-10
It can be anything. Bad installation, hardware incompatibilities, the sound problem could be PulseAudio related.

Could you be more specific with your problems.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-07-10
If your computer is only running tem minutes before somethng locks up. maybe you should be looking at some other cause besides the operating system. Memtest is pretty easy to run, you can run it right from grub, let it run overnight and see if you get any errors, change the power supply, see if that makes a difference, the next time fsck runs, let it finish. There are way to many variables involved just to blame Ubuntu.

If you could tell us what you are doing when things lock up, maybe we can help.

Jim

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-07-10
+1 for memtest.  It suggests you may have a hardware problem.  As things are warming up something is going faulty, could be as simple as badly seated memory or dodgy cables.  Do you get the same problem when running certain software ?  (or specific software in sequence ?)

---

### Post by muteXe on 2008-07-10
Hahaha i love that comparison.  And while (for me as well) 8.04 has not been very stable I do think you should check your hardware and do memtest :)

---

### Post by Seventh Reign on 2008-07-10
8.04's still as Stable as a Humvee Parked in the Driveway for me.  If it wasnt for the fact that WINE still needs ALOTTTT of work, I'd have ditched XP back in April.

---

