---
title: "12.10 lock screen on suspend"
date: 2012-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-10-31
i checked the box in the power manager and there is no option for this in xscreensaver
how can i make it lock the screen on suspend?
xubuntu 12.10 64bit

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-10-31
Thread moved to the "*General Help*" forum.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-10-31
moved? where was it at? could have swore i put it in general help...

---

### Post by sandyd on 2012-10-31
it was at Ubuntu +1 (Raring Ringtail)

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-10-31
wonder how did i managed to do that

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-10-31
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> i checked the box in the power manager and there is no option for this in xscreensaver
how can i make it lock the screen on suspend?
xubuntu 12.10 64bit

In xscreensaver preferences, bottom of the dialog left hand side, there is an option to "Lock screen after ___ minutes". I have this set to 0 and also the option in Xfce Power Manager checked (Extended section).

---

### Post by Self-Perfection on 2012-11-04
I have the same problem. After upgrade to Xubuntu 12.10 it no longer locks session after suspend/hibernate. I've checked XFCE Power Manager settings

[IMG]http://self-perfection.homeip.net/images/2012/XFCEPowerManager.png[/IMG]

and tried advice from above (enable screen locking in xscreensaver preferences) but it did not help.

[IMG]http://self-perfection.homeip.net/images/2012/xscreensaver-demo.png[/IMG]

Actually seldom after resuming from suspend/hibernate I find that session is locked, this cases are quite rare though.

Suggestions?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-11-04
i set my suspend key to run a script to lock the screen and then suspend
be nice it get the button in logout to lock the screen also

---

### Post by Self-Perfection on 2012-11-05
I found that session locking works fine if system is suspended from xfce-power-manager icon right click menu.

But if system is suspended because laptop lid was closed or from panel action buttons.

---

### Post by Self-Perfection on 2012-11-05
Finally I have found solution! xfce4-session and xfce4-power-manager apparently now have different places to set their behavior on going to suspend/hibernate. To set both apps to lock session you may run
```
xfconf-query -c xfce4-session -p /shutdown/LockScreen -s true
xfconf-query -c xfce4-power-manager -p /xfce4-power-manager/lock-screen-suspend-hibernate -s true
```Or change this options in UI:
launch xfce4-session-settings, go to last tab ("Advanced") and mark "Lock screen before sleep" checkbox + checkbox in Power Manager preferences.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-11-06
Thanks that got it
[[img]http://www.zimagez.com/miniature/screenshot-11062012-104222pm.php[/img]](http://www.zimagez.com/zimage/screenshot-11062012-104222pm.php)

---

