---
title: ".bat equivalent?"
date: 2007-08-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kkei08 on 2007-08-08
I need to convert this terminal script into the equivalent of a windows .bat file, help would be appreciated, I'm new to Ubuntu =)

#!/bin/bash
# start the timidity server
l=$(ps -ef|grep timidity|wc -l)
if test $l -gt 1
then
echo Timidity still running
else
echo starting Timidity server
timidity -iA -A170 -B3,10 -Os -EFreverb=0 2>&1 >/dev/null&
fi
exec wine "c:\\Program Files\\Guitar Pro 5\\GP5.exe" $@ &>/dev/null & 

Thanks =)

---

### Post by Tink on 2007-08-08
Just save that and make it executable 
chmod u+x filename

That's it.  Linux doesn't care about extensions.



Cheers,
Tink

---

### Post by Steveway on 2007-08-08
1.Save it in a text file.
2. Use Nautilus to make it Executable.
3. Double-click it.
4.????
5.Profit!

---

### Post by kkei08 on 2007-08-08
You lost me at the whole chmod as well as the nautilus...I'm thinking nautilus is part of GNOME but how do I make it an executable?

Thanks,
   Kris

---

### Post by Steveway on 2007-08-08
Right-click on the file>properties> then under permissions there should be a checkbox saying make executable or something like that. (I'm using Thunar so I can't say for sure.)

---

### Post by kkei08 on 2007-08-08
Got it, it's easier than windows
thanks =)

---

### Post by avik on 2007-08-08
And just so you know, Nautilus is the file manager.  Just for future reference.

---

### Post by pmg on 2007-08-09
One comment about your script.  In the line:
```
l=$(ps -ef|grep timidity|wc -l)
```
there is a race condition.  The **ps** output *might* include the **grep** command, in which case it would find the string "timidity" as part of that command, which you are compensating for by testing for the number of hits being greater then 1.  On the other hand the **ps** may finish before the **grep** starts, so the line may only count 1 hit when the subject process is already running.  You could handle this by filtering out the **grep** line from the **ps** output with a second grep:
```
l=$(ps -ef|grep timidity|grep -v grep|wc -l)
```

---

