---
title: "12.04 lts file permissions"
date: 2021-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joe672 on 2021-10-11
I messed up my file permissions all in public_html yesterday via win scp, i set them all to 755 " set group, owner and permissions recursively" now i get http error 500 when viewing my forum. If i set them all to 777, everything returns. I know i cannot use that long term as its a security risk. I need to help to get the file permissions correct please. 

I am running unbuntu 12.04 lts
Nuke evolution extreme forum

Any helps appreciated, cheers

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2021-10-11
Ubuntu 12.04 has been "end of life" and "end of support" for years. You were basically begging to be hacked at this point.

Please install a current release.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2021-10-11
+1 for the upgrade

I suggest you wipe Ubuntu off and do a clean install of Focal (Ubuntu 20.04) which is LTS and supported until April 2025. You should then restore your user data from your backups. What you have posted is like posting on a Windows forum. "Hi, I have Windows 95.... please help with my issue".

---

### Post by joe672 on 2021-10-11
fair one mate, nicely put :D can anyone help with permissions untill i work on a plan for OS. not sure my vps server spec is upto 20.04

---

### Post by yancek on 2021-10-11
>                                                                                                                              I messed up my file permissions all in public_html yesterday via win scp,


 

I would suggest in the future when you are making changes to a Linux system, you do it from Linux although I don't know that is part of this problem.

> set group, owner and permissions recursively 

You forgot to post what user/group you changed to.  The user/group I have in my public_html directory is my user name.  I wouldn't base much on this as I didn't even realize I had files there but I do and have no problem accessing them.  A question, did this all work prior to your making these changes and second, why did you make these changes.  You can use the ls -l command on that directory to post the user/group and permissions.i

Did you make any changes to your apache configuration files?  Googling that 500 error on apache should give a lot of results to read any suggestions to try.

---

### Post by joe672 on 2021-10-11
The owner/group has not changed. Yes it all worked before, i thought i was improving security , DOH! If i change the file permissions all to 777, everything returns and works. No changes were made to apache. Thanks

---

### Post by joe672 on 2021-10-11
fixed, got the correct permissions , cheers

---

