---
title: "Monitor Screen Problem"
date: 2006-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tuxy on 2006-01-04
I have a problem with my pc monitor. Me and my flat mate use the same pc, what happens is when I use Ubuntu, the screen looks fine but when my mate boots into Windows XP on the other partition, the monitor screen is totally moved towards the left. He changes the screen settings on the monitor manually and when I reboot it to Ubuntu since the screen settings are changed the screen is totally moved to left.

What I want is a perfect monitor settings so that I dont need to change the settings each and every time when my mate boots Windows. 

The monitor resolution is running at 1024X768 at 60Hz in Ubuntu and Windows. Following is my xorg.conf :
------
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "GLcore"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
        Driver          "nv"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        VideoRam        64000
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection
-------

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2006-01-04
First of all I can see the nvidia driver isn't installed, but that have nothing to do with your problem.

First try this if it doesn't help then we'll try something else:

Find your monitor manual or google for it. 

Then:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Under **Section "Monitor"** you'll see **HorizSync** and **VertRefresh**. Now change them with the numbers you have from the manual.


Reboot

---

### Post by tuxy on 2006-01-04
I downloaded the manual from the net and I found:
Horizontal refresh rate: 30-95
Vertical refresh rate:50-160
The monitor is Mitsubishi Electrics Diamond View 1995 SL 19" monitor

I did update the refresh rate's but now when I set the resolution to 1024X768 at 60Hz the screen is splitting down into two !!!!

If I keep 1024x768 @ 70Hz it is blurred at the middle of the screen. It is really annoying and is making my eyes watery!!!:( 

The Windows resolution is working at 1024x768@60Hz and there is no problem with it.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2006-01-04
Then you might take a look at this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973&highlight=refresh+rate](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973&highlight=refresh+rate)

---

### Post by tuxy on 2006-01-04
Thank you AI I will have a look.

---

