---
title: "Internet generally sluggish"
date: 2006-08-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by paulyche on 2006-08-09
Sorry for the vagueness of the title.

My internet connection seems unexpectedly sluggish. Firefox tabs seem to take  a long time to actually connect and start downloading content. 

Most noticeable though, is a long pause when running "apt-get install foo" before the download starts. For some repositories the site can't be reached at all. The interesting thing though is that if I VPN into my work network and then run "apt-get install foo" the download starts immediately and it works for all the repos in my sources.list.

The only things I've changed as far a networking goes were related to going wireless. I disabled ipv6 in /etc/modprobe.d/aliases (and in firefox for that matter)

---

### Post by skymt on 2006-08-09
It sounds like DNS trouble. Have you tried [OpenDNS](http://www.opendns.com/)?

---

### Post by paulyche on 2006-08-09
Thanks for the reply. I think you're right. I just discovered the resolv.conf file cnd changed the DNS server (and removed a line starting search[?]). Now thing SEEM better. It's all a bit subjective. 

OpenDNS sounds interesting though. I might give it a go anyway.

---

### Post by paulyche on 2006-08-09
mmmm.

I've just restarted and now my resolv.conf file has reset itself to what is was before. Is this normal? Is this file dynamically generated or something?

---

### Post by paulyche on 2006-08-09
It is autogenerated if you use DHCP.

I added

```
supersede  domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222
```

to /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf
to fix it

---

