---
title: "9.04: Why does Shift-Ctrl-Alt-F10 kill my desktop?"
date: 2009-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrHow on 2009-05-22
I was configuring keyboard shortcuts.  I saw there was one to maximize a window vertically; and, since that is related to Alt-F10, I assigned it to Shift-Alt-F10.  Works fine.  Then I decided to bind "maximize horizontally" as well.  So I thought Shift-Ctrl-Alt-F10 would be logical for that.  However, as soon as I hit that key combo, my display went black.  I could not figure out how to recover.  I could get a plain-jane terminal, but no GNOME.  The only way I figured to recover was to reboot.  I don't think the symptom has anything to do with binding shortcut keys.  (That is just how I encountered it.)

So what is going on here?  And how can one recover if he inadvertently gets into this state.

---

### Post by XCan on 2009-05-22
I seems like that key combo for some reason kills X. I think you can restore it by typing 'startx' next time it happens.

---

### Post by ChaiTan on 2009-05-22
You can get back to your desktop by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F7

---

### Post by DrHow on 2009-05-22
> **ChaiTan said:**
> You can get back to your desktop by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F7

Indeed, it does.  Thanks for the tip.  But, from my current point of view, this is just magic.  Note that I also asked, "What is going on here?", and that the thread subject starts with "Why"; and I still do wonder.  I prefer insight to magic.

(The startx suggestion does not work for me.  X claims already to be running.)

---

### Post by ALIENDUDE5300 on 2009-05-22
The reason why is because Ctrl+Alt+F10 goes to another desktop, which is kind of like a 'tab' in firefox, except it's in the terminal. If you've ever used Ubuntu's alternative installer, you might notice that the GUI is shown when you press Ctrl+Alt+F1 and the text output that's 'behind the scenes' is shown when you press Ctrl+Alt+F4. The same applies to Ubuntu, except theres nothing on the 10th desktop, so a blank screen is shown. If you want to try it now, Ctrl+Alt+(1-6) will show the first six desktops, which you can login in and execute commands in the Terminal. The X Windows system runs (by default) on the seventh desktop.

---

### Post by VCoolio on 2009-05-22
It's about virtual terminals. The ctrl button did it: ctrl+alt+F1-5 gives you virtual terminals like explained [here]("http://www.linux.org/lessons/beginner/l5/lesson5b.html"), ctrl+alt+f6 gets you out of the window manager to login as a different user and ctrl+alt+F7 gets you back to x. There are only 6 virtual terminals loaded by default but it seems the keybinding goes on until at least F10, but without a prompt as there is no tenth virtual terminal. 
If you run system monitor and click view > all processes you may notice six instances of getty running; those are the virtual terminals. Don't worry they don't take much resources so no need to disable some of them (which would be done by editing the tty textfiles in /etc/event.d/ : comment out the "start on" lines with a # symbol).

---

### Post by DrHow on 2009-05-27
Thank you ALIENDUDE5300 and VCoolio.  I feel much more enlightened now.  Indeed the relationship of virtual teminal 7 to X is something I needed to know.

A mystery: When I mentioned that I could get a plain terminal (e.g., to try startx), I recall that I used Super-F2 (or Meta-F2, as it was described somewhere where I read about it in regard to virtual terminals).  But now Super- no longer works for me, and Ctrl-Alt- does.   Which is strange because I had been into the global keybindings moving the 8 Ctrl-Alt-[arrow] global bindings over to Super-[arrow] because the default bindings for those important workspace operations conflict with some Emacs keybindings which I do not wish to unlearn.  (I stayed away from Super- in Emacs, so I much prefer it to Ctrl-Alt- for any global bindings.)

---

### Post by PaulReaver on 2009-05-27
its good for games.  
you can start fullscreen opengl games in another desktop without gnome in the background.  

Your 1st desktop will be backgrounded. And your game can run on a 2nd without gnome. 

you can swap between game and desktop with Ctrl+Alt+Function buttons.

free performance. yay....

---

