---
title: "16.04: No video on AMD A10-6700 (Richland), needs &quot;nomodeset&quot; to boot"
date: 2016-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by maikmerten on 2016-04-26
Hello there,

today I installed a fresh Xubuntu 16.04 onto my main desktop machine, which uses an AMD A10-6700 ("Richland") processor on a MSI A88XM-E45 Mainboard (a setup well-supported on 14.04). However, when starting the fresh 16.04 install, the kernel apparently fails to properly set up the internal Radeon graphics and triggers a reboot mere seconds after start, which leads me to the Grub menu. The recovery mode works, as does the normal startup procedure if I add "nomodeset" as kernel parameter (which the recovery mode also uses, of course). This means I have no 3D acceleration whatsoever.

I couldn't find a bug report quite matching what I'm seeing there - did anybody encounter something similar? Given that I have no screen output when this failure triggers: What log files could contain proper information (provided the kernel even gets so far as to properly mount the filesystem)?


Maik

---

### Post by yoshii on 2016-04-26
I think your issue may fall under the AMD graphics support deprecated in Ubunbtu(s) v16.04 category.  
There was also a note about this in the v16.04 release notes.  There are more and more posts about this including some recent ones of mine.  
I don't know much about it yet though, sorry.  
I am actually backtracking to v14.04.4 to regain support for AMD graphics that was lost in v16.04.  This is still a tiny step up for me, because my old system is v14.04.3.

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-04-26
AMD graphics support is NOT deprecated in Xenial.  Both Radeon and AMDGPU are available, depending on your hardware.  fglrx is not included because AMD did not want to update it for the newer X Server right now and Canonical did not want to hold back on the new X Server.

Canonical (which produces Ubuntu) has been working very closely with AMD for quite some time to achieve a revolution in open source support from AMD.  What is happening right now is a rough transition.

---

### Post by maikmerten on 2016-04-27
Thanks for the responses!

Much to my amazement, after switching my machine back on this morning, all the sudden the graphics just work fine. Yesterday I shuffled around for hours without success - and a simple power cycle did the trick?! Perhaps the hardware somehow got stuck in an undefined state and a cold boot cycle was needed...

I will keep a close eye on this issue and see if this is a recurring thing.


Maik

---

### Post by maikmerten on 2016-04-27
Bummer! Seems I'm out of luck - after restarting the same problem reappears, and even power cycling does not seem to be a reliable means to resurrect the internal graphics. Well, at least the 3D performance was pretty good when it happened to work ;)

---

### Post by yoshii on 2016-06-27
For the record, I did upgrade to v16.04 on my AMD w/ATI Radeon computer.  I don't do any gaming, so it worked out OK.  
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2328904&p=13510325#post13510325](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2328904&p=13510325#post13510325)

I link to how to edit the GRUB settings so that nomodeset stays set.

---

