---
title: "14.04 Random Crash Issue"
date: 2014-06-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Unkn0wnP3rson on 2014-06-29
Recently, I've been experiencing a very frequent, and very annoying, crashing issue with Ubuntu 14.04. It's been happening since I installed 14.04 on my computer about a week ago. I've used Ubuntu plenty of times before on this computer, but have never had a problem like this. I've done a lot of searching, but still haven't been able to find a solution. It's starting to get very frustrating, so I decided to post here.

I'm not entirely sure of the cause of these crashes. They seem to occur at completely random times, regardless of the task being done. I'll just be using my computer normally, and everything will freeze. I won't be able to move the mouse, and I won't be able to switch to a TTY prompt. The only way to fix it is to do a hard reset. Based on the searching I've done, it seems like it's most likely a graphics related issue, but all the proposed solutions I've seen are things that either I've already done, or that don't help.

Specifications:
CPU:Intel i5 2500K
Motherboard: MSI P67A-C43 B3
8 GB RAM
Graphics: NVIDIA GeForce 650 Ti BOOST

Kernel: 3.13.0-29-generic

---

### Post by memilanuk on 2014-06-29
Seeing much the same here... tho I can switch to a TTY.  

From what I gather its a Compiz problem... but nobody seems to have a solution other than switch desktops to something like XFCE or LXDE that don't use compiz :(

---

### Post by Unkn0wnP3rson on 2014-06-30
To verify whether it was a Compiz issue, I started fresh and installed Xubuntu. I used the same graphics driver (nvidia-331-updates), and I'm still having crashes. This leads me to believe that the graphics driver is the problem. Unfortunately, other than the driver I'm using, Nouveau is my only option, and it's useless.

Hopefully someone knows a possible fix to this problem.

---

