---
title: "recover screen resolution in recover mode"
date: 2011-05-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fred_gavin on 2011-05-29
Dear All, 

My laptop has a 1920x1080 (16:9) with 60Hz screen, however everything looks small with that resolution. So I tried to use different refresh rate, and set 75Hz in /etc/X11/xorg-conf. 

Then the system crashed. 

Could someone please suggest how I can change the resolution back in the recover mode? 

Thank you very much.

---

### Post by fred_gavin on 2011-05-29
I managed to recover the problem in ¨failsafe graphic mode¨. 

But I would like to know, with 1920x1080 resolution, how can I make everything looks like normal, ie. font size, icon size, tab size and fonts in browser ? The following is xorg.conf. Thank you very much

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.41.06  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-07.nvidia.com)  Mon Apr 18 15:15:12 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    Mode
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-29
> **fred_gavin said:**
> Dear All, 

My laptop has a 1920x1080 (16:9) with 60Hz screen, however everything looks small with that resolution. So I tried to use different refresh rate, and set 75Hz in /etc/X11/xorg-conf. 

Then the system crashed. 

Could someone please suggest how I can change the resolution back in the recover mode? 

Thank you very much.
Hi, depending what version of ubuntu you are using you can right click the desktop and click on change backgrand then at the top of that window is a tab called fonts, change then to make your text larger.

---

