---
title: ".Bashrc quick query"
date: 2010-06-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by arctica1963 on 2010-06-21
Hello

I have just started learning Ubuntu 10.04 and recently installed GMT but I need to be able to set the environment variables. Where do these get set? I have seen mention of the .bashrc file but am not sure where this is located.

When Ubuntu boots up I am in my home directory.

Thanks for the help

Lester

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-06-21
## To add a directory to your path, do something like this:

```
export PATH=${PATH}:${HOME}/bin
```

You should have or create a bin folder in your home directory.

To check it run

```
echo $PATH
```

---

### Post by Smart Viking on 2010-06-21
Hi.

.bashrc is in your home directory. It is a hidden folder because if the "." in the front of the file, to view hidden files and folders in the file browser simply press ctrl+h.

To view hidden files from the terminal, enter

```
ls -a
```I hope this helped, and that you find the file. :)

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-06-21
If that doesn't work try this, I just checked my .bashrc

[PHP]

if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
    PATH=~/bin:"${PATH}"
fi


[/PHP]

Put it at the bottom of .bashrc

---

### Post by arctica1963 on 2010-06-22
Thanks for the pointers.

I added a line at the end of my .bashrc file to include the link to GMT:

export PATH=/usr/lib/gmt/bin:$PATH (think that was it lol) anyway it seemed to work. Will need to check later to see if it works properly at boot.

Cheers

Lester

> **wojox said:**
> If that doesn't work try this, I just checked my .bashrc

[PHP]

if [ -d ~/bin ] ; then
    PATH=~/bin:"${PATH}"
fi


[/PHP]Put it at the bottom of .bashrc

---

