---
title: "12.04 Firefox, Chrome, Chromium are all freezing up."
date: 2014-12-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ksanger on 2014-12-15
I hit the update button yesterday and went to bed.  Today Chrome is chrashing badly.  Both displays start to tear and pixelate and the computer hangs.  Firefox is doing the same thing.  Though I'm using firefox now to post.  So I uninstalled Chrome and went looking to reinstall it.  Couldn't find it in software center so installed Chromium instead.  Chromium froze up badly on its first flight.  Uninstall Chromium.  According to my history.log I updated Ubuntu 12.04 to with google-chrome-stable:amd64 (37.0.2062.120-1, 39.0.2171.95-1),  firefox:amd64 (32.0.3+build1-0ubuntu0.12.04.1, 34.0+build2-0ubuntu0.12.04.1) and flashplugin-installer:amd64 (11.2.202.406ubuntu0.12.04.1, 11.2.202.425ubuntu0.12.04.1).  I tried to download Chrome from google's site but that page took out firefox.

When the system hangs I have to power down and restart.  cntrl-alt-del does nothing.  No mouse available.  I have a 6 core amd processor and its out to lunch.  16 GB of ram.  Plenty of hard disk space available.  

My system has been running stable for at least a year.

Any ideas on what to do?

---

### Post by ksanger on 2014-12-15
Just tried latest version of google-chrome-stable.  Note firefox freezes on googles web page so I used virtual box with firefox to download the file.  After installing the deb package, starting chrome crashed the system.  Starting chrome from within a terminal gave the following error:

3239:3239:1215/190640: ERROR sandbox_linux.cc(305) Initialize Sandbox called with multiple threads in process gpu-process.

---

### Post by ksanger on 2014-12-16
Anyone else have issues after upgrading?  Any ideas on how to fix this?

Firefox will hang the system if I go to https:/www.google.com/chrome to download the latest version.  I can find lots of posts From Sept-Aug about Chrome and Chromium freezing the system if you are using gpu.  Is this the same issue?

---

### Post by spiffymoo on 2014-12-17
[COLOR=#484848][FONT=Open Sans]OK so suggestions are now

[LIST=1]
[*]check that the graphics drivers are up to date,
[*]and as a troubleshooting/workaround consider trying with hardware acceleration off (assuming it is on at present.)
[/LIST]
See the articles

[LIST]
[*][Troubleshoot extensions, themes and hardware acceleration issues to solve common Firefox problems]("https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/troubleshoot-extensions-themes-to-fix-problems")
[*][Upgrade your graphics drivers to use hardware acceleration and WebGL]("https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/upgrade-graphics-drivers-use-hardware-acceleration")
[/LIST]
Are you having the problem when other applications are in use or is it only Firefox that locksup the system ?
[HR][/HR]P.S.
If everything freezes try selecting the Ubuntu 2d display option instead of the 3d display option, that is selectable as you log in to Ubuntu, and will put less strain on graphics.


[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-12-17
You could also check 'Additional Drivers' (might be 'Hardware Drivers' in 12.04) and see if it offers you a new or different driver, but if the system was stable until the update, don't know that the driver would have died because of it. How did you install the driver originally or was it part of the kernel? Do you remember which it was? 

Try an update/upgrade and report errors:
```

sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

Have you done a restart since the update? Try a restart and choose the recovery kernel. The messages you get on the way may give a clue (although they flash by).

Instead of doing a hard shutdown when it locks up, try hitting control+alt+F1. That should get you to a cursor where you can do it softly with:

```
sudo reboot -h now
```

Good luck and hope that helps. ;)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-12-17
Post back the output of the commands Bucky Ball posted. (Not the reboot command, though. the ones above it)

Seems you've laxed on the updating for a while.
You've skipped a few versions of all three packages that you've posted.
(Like Chrome 38, or firefox 33; firefox 32 and chrome 37 where a few months ago old)
I would not be surprised if there was a few kernel updates, and I know there should have been an Xserver update.(that happened a week ago, affecting all versions currently supported of Ubuntu).

---

### Post by ksanger on 2014-12-17
Sorry I'm slow.  Its taken a while to update the graphics driver.  I have a Radeon R7 200 Series card and was running the generic driver VESA.  I used AMD Catalyst Control center to switch to 
fglrx (2:13.350.1-0ubuntu0.0.1)which I had tried a while ago and that did not work.  I had installed AMD fglrx on 5-22-2014 using "ppa:Xorg-edgers/ppa".  I found fglrx                                         (2:14.501-0ubuntu) on amd.com.  Removing fglrx and rebooting took out my monitors and I was unable to boot as the system would not let me hit enter with run using low resolution graphics.  Probably hadn't gotten to my wireless keyboard and mouse.  Booted off of a live cd and deleted Xorg.conf then I was able to boot and install fglrx 2.14.  First install failed as all the files were not in the deb package downloaded from AMD.  Went back to AMD, and this time it gave me a larger zip file (amd-catalyst-omega-14.12-linux-run-installers.zip) to download and that did install.  I don't know why the amd site gave me two different search results for my hardware.  However now AMD Catalyst does not run.  But both monitors are running though the colors do not match.

Firefox now works at [www.google.com/chrome]("http://www.google.com/chrome").  The system is stable.  
Chrome now works.
I have not tried Chromium but I assume it would work too.
AMD Catalyst Control Center (Administrator) and AMD Catalyst Control Center do not run.  Admin version asks for password then nada.  Non admin version does nothing.  Links appear to point to files that don't do anything.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-12-17
ksanger; Hi !

> 
Radeon R7 200 Series card

Does not give "me" enough information to base a directive on.
What returns from terminal commands:
```

lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
sudo lshw -C display

```
to show the hardware and if/what driver is loaded for the graphics.
code tag tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)

[INDENT][INDENT]a tale will be told
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by ksanger on 2014-12-17
This is where I'm at with firefox working and amd control center not working.

$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Cape Verde XT [Radeon HD 7770 GHz Edition] [1002:683d]
    Subsystem: PC Partner Limited / Sapphire Technology Device [174b:e214]
    Kernel driver in use: fglrx_pci
    Kernel modules: fglrx

and 

sudo lshw -C display
[sudo] password for X: 
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Cape Verde XT [Radeon HD 7770 GHz Edition]
       vendor: Hynix Semiconductor (Hyundai Electronics)
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 00
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm pciexpress msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=fglrx_pci latency=0
       resources: irq:80 memory:c0000000-cfffffff memory:fea00000-fea3ffff ioport:e000(size=256) memory:fea40000-fea5ffff

The Radeon R7 200 Series Card was reported in the last version of AMD Catalyst Conrol Center software that worked.  It was also used on AMD's site to download the zip file.  If you enter AMD HD 7000 series on AMD's site you get a different driver to download.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-12-17
ksanger; Well :

Looks good, should workie, however;
Did you do:
```

sudo amdconfig --initial

```

See if that helps.

---

### Post by ksanger on 2014-12-17
The amd instructions said to use sudo aticonfig --initial and reboot.  I did that the first time and had to delete the Xorg.conf file to get it to boot.  Then after I was running, and AMD Catalyst Control Center did not work I tried sudo amdconfig --initial and rebooting but AMD Catalyst Control Center still will not work.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-12-17
ksanger; Welp;

It was a thought. a pity not good 'nuff.

Ya want to try and purge all the FGLRX stuff, then install the open source driver ? See what the situation is then, and now consider if the proprietary FGLRX driver might be a better option to try - after the system is stable on open source .

[INDENT]presently all I know to do 
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-12-17
> **Bashing-om said:**
> ksanger; Welp;

It was a thought. a pity not good 'nuff.

Ya want to try and purge all the FGLRX stuff, then install the open source driver ? See what the situation is then, and now consider if the proprietary FGLRX driver might be a better option to try - after the system is stable on open source .[INDENT]presently all I know to do 
[/INDENT]


Heya, Bashing.

You haven't gone and picked 'another one'.....have you?

I HATE trying to swim with my ankles tied together..... (lol)

Still; I'm SURE you're having fun!

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-12-17
> **Mike_Walsh said:**
> Heya, Bashing.

You haven't gone and picked 'another one'.....have you?

I HATE trying to swim with my ankles tied together..... (lol)

Still; I'm SURE you're having fun!

Regards,

Mike.

Mike, hiya !

Could be, as we have not absolutely determined this is but a graphics issue. There is that possibility this may get deep . Don't cha just love it when that happens .

[INDENT][INDENT]doing these puzzles
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]beats doing jig-saw puzzles
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]everytime
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-12-18
You're right there, mate!. There here gadgets can make even 1000-piece jigsaws look tame in comparison... (lol)

Enjoy...!

Regards,

Mike. ;)

---

### Post by ksanger on 2014-12-18
I won't have time to figure out how to upgrade and install the generic driver for a while.  

I got AMD Catalyst Control Center to run!  I found this post on installing AMD fglrx on Ubuntu 14.04, [http://linustechtips.com/main/topic/246639-installing-catalyst-on-ubuntu/](http://linustechtips.com/main/topic/246639-installing-catalyst-on-ubuntu/), and was able to modify it for 12.04 by changing one line to compile for Ubuntu/precise instead of Ubuntu/trusty.  This enabled me to save the deb packages created.  The AMD zip file must delete the deb packages so I couldn't just uninstall and retry installing fglrx-amdcccle.  Previously I had used, sudo apt-get remove fglrx*, instead of, sudo apt-get purge fglrx*.  Though this time purge gave me an error message stating that some of the folders were not empty.

Any way modifying the instructions from the above link to purge fglrx* and reinstal fglrx, fglrx-amdccle, and others resulted in AMD Catalyst Control Center working and I'm able to adjust the color on each monitor to make them closer to each other and what I expect.  (This time I wrote down my final settings so after the next upgrade I can reset them).

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-12-18
ksanger; Great !

You do good work.

As you are happy, I am tickled to pieces. - Thanks for providing your solution.

Please mark this thread solved;
aides others seeking the solution,
helps keep the forum clean and
precludes others miss-directing efforts to aid.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

[INDENT]it is all in the process of learning
[/INDENT]

---

