---
title: "Tried to change Volume name now can't access"
date: 2010-02-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wightghost on 2010-02-12
I wanted to change the name of one of volumes/partitions from "New Volume" to "Photos". I had two "new volumes" and it was getting confusing.  Thinking this would be an easy process I went into nautilus (gksudo nautilus) and right-clicked on the icon representing the volume, selected Rename and typed in "Photos".  I now cannot access that volume from Ubuntu but I can from Windows XP (where it is still labelled "New Volume).  When I try to access it I get the error message:

"Cannot mount Volume. You are not privileged to mount the volume 'New Volume' "

This is the readout from fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=d75ec069-6192-44ad-b5ad-326115e018d3 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=089cd734-28b0-4f04-9ceb-643cc08a39dd none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb3 /media/New\040Volume ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/Files ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0


Can anyone help me???
Thanks

---

### Post by ironclaw on 2010-02-13
Do you mean you renamed the folder in /media/ from 'New Volume' to 'Photos'? In that case, you just need to update your /etc/fstab file.

Open /etc/fstab and change
```
/dev/sdb3 /media/New\040Volume ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0
```
to
```
/dev/sdb3 /media/[COLOR=Red]Photos[/COLOR] ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0
```

Additionally, if you want to change the actual label of an ntfs partition (so that Windows will use the new label), unmount the file system, then run
```
sudo ntfslabel /dev/<device> <new label>
```
to set the label to <new label>.

---

### Post by wightghost on 2010-02-14
Thanks Ironclaw, that worked great.
But when I type 

> sudo ntfslabel /dev/sdb3 Photos

I get an error message:
> Access is denied because the NTFS volume is already exclusively opened.
The volume may be already mounted, or another software may use it which
could be identified for example by the help of the 'fuser' command.
You can use force option to avoid this check, but this is not recommended
and may lead to data corruption.

But when I try to unmount the volume I get:
> Cannot unmount volume. DBus error org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NoReply: Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.

Thanks for your help so far & I'd really appreciate any further help.  Thank you
Brad

---

### Post by ironclaw on 2010-02-14
Try
```
sudo umount /dev/sdb3
```
to unmount as superuser.

Then try to change the label again:
```
sudo ntfslabel /dev/sdb3 Photos
```

If you want to be able to mount and unmount the partition with any user, just add 'user' to the options for the partition in fstab, e.g.,
```
/dev/sdb3 /media/Photos ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8[COLOR=Red],user[/COLOR] 0 0
```

---

### Post by darolu on 2010-02-14
Notice that:
> **user**
Allow **an ordinary user** to mount the file system. The name of the mounting user is written to mtab so that he can unmount the file system again. This option implies the options noexec, nosuid, and nodev (unless overridden by subsequent options, as in the option line user,exec,dev,suid).
**users**
Allow **every user** to mount and unmount the file system. This option implies the options noexec, nosuid, and nodev (unless overridden by subsequent options, as in the option line users,exec,dev,suid)
**exec**
Permit execution of binaries
If you want full functionality you may want to use *users* and add the option *exec* too.

---

### Post by wightghost on 2010-02-14
Thanks Ironclaw. That worked.  Really appreciate your help.

Kind Regards
Brad

---

