---
title: "12.04 panel problem"
date: 2012-06-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dede468 on 2012-06-25
I have got rid of the horrid Unity and gone to a more sensible classic desktop but I read that panels can be accessed by using **alt rt click** which does precisely nothing for me. Is there a way to get the normal panel menu back too?

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-06-25
Try alt+super+right click

---

### Post by dede468 on 2012-06-25
Thanks but I tried every combination I could imagine without any hint of a change menu

---

### Post by black veils on 2012-06-25
if you find you want something with more options, you could try the desktop environment xfce, which can be installed on your ubuntu with this command
```
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop
```it looks like ubuntu 10.04. you can change where the panels go, how many you want, panel background images, size, plugins, transparency. you can choose window borders, i can recommend a couple. and other general settings.

---

### Post by NikTh on 2012-06-25
> **dede468 said:**
> I have got rid of the horrid Unity and gone to a more sensible classic desktop but I read that panels can be accessed by using **alt rt click** which does precisely nothing for me. Is there a way to get the normal panel menu back too?

You said that gone to a more classical desktop and i presume that you installed gnome-session-fallback. 
Give more info about.. how did you install the environment and am i correct about environment ?(its gnome-session-fallback) 
**If yes** then the combination i suggested you (alt+super+right click) works . At least work for me. 
But maybe i miss something (to tell you) 
```
sudo apt-get install indicator-applet-appmenu 
``` 
Then try the combination again.

---

### Post by dede468 on 2012-07-31
Yes I used fallback but no matter what combination of keys I press and right click on the panel, nothing at all happens - no menus, just nothing at all....

I installed it by following a sticky thread here on the forum for gnome fallback which gave me the options on login menu.
PS on terminal -  I get the message *Unable to locate package indicator-applet-appmenu*

Thanks for the check on XFCE but I'll try it after I solve this one.

---

