---
title: "NSLU2 mounting &amp; fstab setup help please"
date: 2007-05-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Biffa2001 on 2007-05-15
Hi all,

I have an NSLU2 on my network which I can mount with SMB4K with no problem (the only problem being for some reason I have to unmount it before I can happily access the NSLU2 from my xbox using XBMC - under windows this was never a problem!).

I want to try and set up my NSLU2 to auto mount on startup so I followed a guide elsewhere on this site and have my etc/fstab set up like this:

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdc1 :
UUID=f103d8c2-cec4-4661-b02a-4de16f871db5 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdc5 :
UUID=1f67cb8c-90ab-4fd7-879c-c8b1a97ec2cb none swap sw 0 0
\\192.168.2.2\\DISK 2\\ /media/slug smbfs user=admin,password=admin user,defaults 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdb5 /media/DATA ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0  

...you can see my NSLU2 settings 4th line from the bottom - a couple of q's:

1) as my share is DISK 2 (with a space) is that ok in my fstab file or do I need to put DISK_2 or something else in my fstab?

2) after I save this fstab file and then run "sudo mount -a" I get the error:

> line 12 in /etc/fstab is bad
Failed to open $AttrDef: Input/output error
Failed to mount '/dev/hdb5': Input/output error
NTFS is inconsistent. Run chkdsk /f on Windows then reboot it TWICE!
The usage of the /f parameter is very IMPORTANT! No modification was
made to NTFS by this software.


From what I can gather there are 2 errors here:

> line 12 in /etc/fstab is bad
Failed to open $AttrDef: Input/output error

and

> Failed to mount '/dev/hdb5': Input/output error
NTFS is inconsistent. Run chkdsk /f on Windows then reboot it TWICE!
The usage of the /f parameter is very IMPORTANT! No modification was
made to NTFS by this software.

I am more worried about the first error as this is to do with my NSLU2. The second error is odd as this drive actually shows up ok in my computer so not really a problem.

I have created the folder /media/slug...so what is the problem? Can anyone help me please or point me in the right direction.

Cheers all :KS 
Steve

---

### Post by fanatik on 2007-05-15
try using forward slashes:

//192.168.2.2/DISK 2 /media/slug smbfs user=admin,password=admin user,defaults 0 0

although i have just noticed you have a space in the disk name - not sure what is going to happen there... maybe:

//192.168.2.2/DISK\ 2 /media/slug smbfs user=admin,password=admin user,defaults 0 0

also you have a space in the options, try:

//192.168.2.2/DISK\ 2 /media/slug smbfs user=admin,password=admin,user,defaults 0 0

---

### Post by Biffa2001 on 2007-05-15
Thanks for the reply, I tired all 3 suggestions you gave and get exactly the same error. This is really the only 1 thing that Windows seems to me to do better then Linux! :confused: 

Any more advice as to what to try as I would love to get this working.

Cheers
Steve

---

### Post by fanatik on 2007-05-15
well this is the line in my fstab (although it's not coming from a SLUG, its a terastation:

//192.168.1.68/pictures   /media/pictures   smbfs   guest,uid=1000,gid=1000,fmask=600,dmask=700     0       0

so it should work...

---

### Post by Biffa2001 on 2007-05-15
Right, with a bit of web searching I have found that this should work:

fstab:

> //"192.168.2.2"/ /media/slug smbfs username=admin,password=admin,rw,users 0 0 


when I then run sudo mount -a I get the error:

> 22364: Connection to "192.168.2.2" failed
SMB connection failed


This seems to me a step forward as at least it is trying to mount this time, but failing due to some uknown (to me anyway!) reason.

Any help on what this error may mean and how to fix it?

Cheers
Steve

---

### Post by gordboy on 2008-03-26
I did this with mine:
> //192.168.1.150/DISK\0401 /media/nslu2 smbfs credentials=/root/.smbcredentials,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0


calling this file /root/.smbcredentials
> username=admin
password=mysharespassword

it seems to work ok so far. the key is to replace the space in your sharename with \040 which is the escape for a space. for instance my share name is "DISK 1"

---

