---
title: "11.04 Network Problems Intel PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mordecai83 on 2011-04-28
Hello all,

So i decided to try natty today to see what unity is all about. However to my surprise i seem to have problems with my wifi connection. It connects fine, however i can't browse any websites or update. I haven't had any problems with my network since jaunty. Back then i used WICD which enabled me to use wifi again. So i tried this in natty too, to no avail. My network card is: Intel PRO/Wireless 4965 AGN. I was wondering if any of you have had problems or maybe a solution.

Edit: BTW using natty x64

Edit2: Playing around i noticed i suddenly had a working connection, i thought i had solved it. However after 10 min it stopped working. I still see full reception but internet was not working. After about 20 min it started working again. And no, it is not my router. I double boot with maverick and internet works just fine here. This is a really weird problem.

---

### Post by mordecai83 on 2011-04-28
Further problems i've had so far:

Top panel went completely black after switching from fullscreen to halfscreen firefox. log-out and log-in to restore it.

Ubuntu software center stopped working twice. Had to end process in system monitor.

Thats in about two hours of testing. Doesn't look good so far. 

On a sidenote: I really like what they did with unity. Looks good and is very responsive. Too bad i can't use it yet cause of the wireless troubles.

---

### Post by gnutzmann on 2011-05-02
Try to change the "MTU" value on your "MAN" port in wireless router (default value is 1495-1500, try 1400 or less). This works for me.

---

### Post by udiloza on 2011-05-03
Hi, 

Have a similar problem!
I have a Intel Pro/Wireless 4965 AGN card on my laptop!
Problems are:
* does not connect to the network (full signal strength, works well on windows)
* if connected after a struggle, very slow and disconnects frequently
* if connected, doing a ping to the router shows a packet lose of over 40% (no loss when working with windows OS)

so i reckon the wireless card is fine!!!

I have a billion wireless dongle, which I am using now- works with out any problem!
Similarly ethernet has no problem!

Also, Intel wireless card works fine at on my friends network and my university network!

Thanks in advance!!!

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-03
I too have an Intel Pro 4965 AGN and it works faultlessly. It has always worked from Lucid through Maverick and for the last 5 months or so on Natty testing systems. 
I too use 64 bit.
That seems very odd.
Maybe you could see if there are any similar problems reported in the Wireless/Networking sub-forum.

---

### Post by hitchhiker_42 on 2011-05-13
Same problem here.. I've been using an Intel PRO/Wireless 4965 faultlessly since distro 8.04. Connection in Natty is very erratic, though.

People are reporting the same issues with other wireless hardware in related topics. I don't understand much about it, but could it be a general kernel issue?

---

### Post by msegmx on 2011-05-14
When using windows on the same laptop it connects without any problems to wireless network. It worked on Ubuntu 10.10, too. But now I installed 11.04 and I can't get it to connect to network anymore. It lists all the wireless networks around, mine included. when I choose it, it asks for the password. I'm 100% sure that the password is right. It still doesn't connect.

After googling and reading for hours now, I know that they modified something at the kernel level, so many users with different wireless devices have the same problem.

But I couldn't find a step by step info on how to make the Intel 4965 adapter to work.

Can anybody give a link or help on this ?

---

### Post by hitchhiker_42 on 2011-05-18
Is any of you guys having troubles with Ethernet connection too?
I tried it today because wireless was just impossible to work for more than 5 minutes with. It turns out that wired connection is just as bad.. :(

---

### Post by msegmx on 2011-05-18
nope, I can connect through ethernet.

I can see the list of wireless networks, but when I choose the right one and enter the right password, it never connects, just the password box pops up a few minutes later.

---

### Post by rokixz on 2011-05-22
Same problem here, same card, the same issue in OpenSuse + bluetooth doesn't seem to be working. Many things to fix!

---

### Post by hitchhiker_42 on 2011-06-08
My wireless connection is working just fine for over a week now. Didn't do anything to fix it, I just installed the regular updates. Let's see if it keeps this way.. Is anyone else with fixed network?

---

