---
title: "9.10 - How do I switch from UNBR to the regular desktop?"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sparkmandrill on 2009-10-29
I'm not sure, if this is the correct board for the question, but anyway...
So I installed 9.10 Netbook Remix on my EEE 1000h, but I want to switch to the regular GNOME desktop. The desktop-switcher app is nowhere to be found and when I try to compile it from source, it says "Your intltool is too old".

Is there any easy way to switch this or do I have to reinstall the whole thing?

Oh, also it seems I can't map anything to Windos Key/Super L in Keyboard Shortcuts which worked perfectly for me in 9.04. This is pretty secondary right now, but if anyone knows more about this, I'd be glad to learn about that as well.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by sgtbug on 2009-10-30
same problem.. any solutions?

---

### Post by sgtbug on 2009-10-30
this is supposed to be a solution to the problem. dont know if it works smoothly though. trying it myself now..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305566](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1305566)

---

### Post by sgtbug on 2009-10-30
also, the fix specified here needs to be used for the NBR interface doesnt stop bug..

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/desktop-switcher/+bug/322465](https://bugs.launchpad.net/desktop-switcher/+bug/322465)


EDIT: just tried it. it totally messes stuff up for me.. sticking to the clutter based interface atm.. will try when it is added to the repos..

---

### Post by Tuliku on 2009-10-30
Same question here..

---

### Post by sparkmandrill on 2009-10-30
Okay. I eventually added the old (8.10) repos for UNBR from launchpad, installed the desktop-switcher and switched to the regular desktop. It actually worked although I'm aware that this is not really a smooth or clean solution.

I ended up reinstalling 9.10 again because I messed up something while trying to change the boot splash. This time though I chose the regular desktop version. So far everything works fine except no matter what I do, I still can't make the Super L/Windows Key work.

---

### Post by Macchi on 2009-11-01
I uppgraded one of our family EEEs (900) to Ubuntu NBR9.10 but became disappointed with the limitations of the user interface. Apparently everything works fine out of the box, but the icons are too large and do not use efficiently the available screen area. Compare it to the density of icons icons on the iphone! Furthermore I cannot cope with seeing only one application at a time, Maximus maximizes the only visible window - even though it is possible to keep other stuff in the background with Ubuntu Netbook Remix.

NBR-->Ubuntu-desktop
Thus I connected the EEE to the internet though a cable interface, logged in on the Alt-F1 console, stopped GDM and removed (--purge) the NBR specific packages. Then I installed the ubuntu-desktop (and as usual removed the gnome-games). The resulting system had some glitches - not showing the desktop - but that could be fixed with a tewak of the registry (this sounds like repairing Windows). I could post a detailed list of commands but feel that it may be already available elsewhere.
Best regards,

---

### Post by Tuliku on 2009-11-04
Here a quite easy solution to get a normal desktop, found it in another similar thread:

> **quiricada said:**
> here's what i did, no guarantees here! just seem to work for me.

in unr mode
system - preference - startup application
unchecked - maximus
unchecked - netbook launcher

on the top panel
right click the little ubuntu logo (it's the go home applet) and remove it

then right click on any part of the blank portion of the top panel
select add to panel
select main menu (the main gnome menu)
then i move this to the leftmost part of the panel

(NOTE NOTE:
some part of the top panel may look blank but is actually the window list;
if on right click and you don't get the "add to panel" selection item, you are right clicking on window list;
if you can't right click and get the "add to panel" selection item, just
1) remove the window list,
2) add main menu,
3) add back the window list)

then restart

---

### Post by moonworks on 2009-11-10
since with  9.10 NBR on my eee 704 i could not open [I]

system - preference - startup application
[/I]
due to these oversized, overlaying buttons, i opened a terminal and removed the netbook-launcher with

*sudo apt-get remove netbook-launcher*

then logged off and back on, ignored the message telling me that the netbook-launcher was not available anymore,

then used the method pointed out by tuliku above:

[I]right click on any part of the blank portion of the top panel
select add to panel
select main menu (the main gnome menu)
then i move this to the leftmost part of the panel[/I]

and with this done, you can finally open

[I]system - preference - startup application
[/I]
and remove the netbook launcher from this list to prevent further complaints at startup. 

works fine for the panel, for actually having the gnome desktop i suppose you would have to install a bunch of packages but i decided against for performance issues. on my eee i can do fine just with the panel and without an actual desktop.

---

### Post by Benchamoneh on 2009-11-14
This worked for me, however I still can't map to Super L. Anyone any ideas why this is?

---

### Post by Benchamoneh on 2009-11-15
Ok, done some research and figured it out.

Those wanting to use their Super L key to show the desktop/open the menu/do anything else will probably want to read this article:

[http://www.webupd8.org/2009/10/ubuntu-karmic-make-super-key-bring-down.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2009/10/ubuntu-karmic-make-super-key-bring-down.html)

The long and short of it is that Ubuntu devs have changed the way the Super L key works so that it can no longer be used on its own. If you want to bind it you need to do so manually which can be done via gconf-editor. Fire it up and look in **/apps/metacity/gobal_keybindings/**, then change the value of the command you want to run to **Super_L**.

---

