---
title: "11.10 No wifi? I have an idea..."
date: 2011-10-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ernestj on 2011-10-18
I was wondering if anyone would know if you can install iwlagn on 11.10? I booted a CD of Mint on my system and connected to the internet immediately. It said that iwlagn was being used. Mint 11 is based on 11.04 and when I was running Natty, I would connect online without any delay. I would laugh at my wife, who is running Windows 7 and it would taker her forever to get online. I would turn on the computer, surf the net and shut-down faster than she could connect. Now, she is laughing. I can not connect online with Oneric. I have been using a cable or booting to 7 to surf. HELP!!!

---

### Post by reptilezone2002 on 2011-10-18
> **ernestj said:**
> I was wondering if anyone would know if you can install iwlagn on 11.10? I booted a CD of Mint on my system and connected to the internet immediately. It said that iwlagn was being used. Mint 11 is based on 11.04 and when I was running Natty, I would connect online without any delay. I would laugh at my wife, who is running Windows 7 and it would taker her forever to get online. I would turn on the computer, surf the net and shut-down faster than she could connect. Now, she is laughing. I can not connect online with Oneric. I have been using a cable or booting to 7 to surf. HELP!!!


same to me no mobile broadband & if u some how get connected ur browsing speed will be very very very slow i revert back to 11.04 its much more better

---

### Post by ernestj on 2011-10-18
I have in my hand a 11.04 CD. I have been thinking about going back to 11.04. I was hoping that in the last 5 days, someone would have had "the fix". I also have a 11.10 CD waiting to do a clean install, if I can figure this out. That is why I was mentioning iwlagn, that is what 11.04 uses, now how do I get this running in 11.10

---

### Post by reptilezone2002 on 2011-10-19
> **ernestj said:**
> I have in my hand a 11.04 CD. I have been thinking about going back to 11.04. I was hoping that in the last 5 days, someone would have had "the fix". I also have a 11.10 CD waiting to do a clean install, if I can figure this out. That is why I was mentioning iwlagn, that is what 11.04 uses, now how do I get this running in 11.10
  i have installed 11.10 15 times trying varies ways but nothing can get it working the right way & no one has a clue to i have put this to lounch pad to but nothing yet

---

