---
title: "nvidia GeForce 6200 no 3d"
date: 2008-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bezvardis on 2008-11-22
Hello, I need help with my NVIDIA GeForce 6200 card. I have installed the driver (tried it through variety if methods - starting with the in-build proprietary driver manager, envyng, fresh driver installation from Nvidia site. Currently I have installed a beta driver from NVIDIA site which supposedly had to work better with 6200 cards). And it always installs ok, all seems to be running

BUT

I I have no 3d support. As a result I have no desktop effects and for instance screensavers which have 3d elements do not run. They used to run if I did not have the proprietary drivers installed but were really slow. Now they simply have black screen.

Anyone has any ideas what I can do?

---

### Post by 289Shelby on 2008-11-22
Probably too obvious but have you checked /etc/X11/xorg.conf to make sure it's loading the 'nvidia' driver and not the 'nv' one?

---

### Post by Bezvardis on 2008-11-22
Yes, it does say "nvidia" in xorg.conf

---

### Post by happyhamster on 2008-11-22
- Could you perhaps show the output of the following commands?

uname -a

glxinfo

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

- BTW; when pasting the results here, try putting the [noparse]> ....[/noparse] tags around it (large chunks of text are easier to read that way).

---

### Post by 289Shelby on 2008-11-22
The only other thing I can think of is to make sure you've cleaned the system of any previous nvidia driver before you try another one. How you do this I'm not sure.

It doesn't help you I know but I'm using a 6200 card on my Debian system with the proprietary drivers and 3D is enabled.

---

### Post by Bezvardis on 2008-11-23
Thanks, Happyhamster. Here are the outputs:


> 
uname -

Linux myname-desktop 2.6.24-21-generic #1 SMP Tue Oct 21 23:43:45 UTC 2008 i686 GNU/Linux


> 
glxinfo
NVIDIA OpenGL Driver requires CPUs with SSE to run.

The current CPU does not support SSE.


> 
desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Sat Nov  8 12:48:43 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


I see that some cpu does not support something in glxinfo. But can that be fixed or what is the reason?

And 289Shelby - thank you too - while installing the driver that I have now, I followed one guid in these forums which specifically made shure that all the previous installations were removed. So I guess they have been removed.

---

### Post by Bezvardis on 2008-11-23
PROBLEM SOLVED.

This is how. After I saw this message:

>  glxinfo
NVIDIA OpenGL Driver requires CPUs with SSE to run.

The current CPU does not support SSE 

I searched for the exact phrase in google and found that indeed NVIDIA has made drivers which are not suited for the old CPU that I have. I had installed such a driver. But fortunately they said that they have also released another one which is made for the Athlon and similar CPUs that do not support SSE. One can find the driver 173.14.15 _[ here]("ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.15/")_. Downloaded the file to my home directory.

Then I followed the cleaning-up and installation instructions which are given _[here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=813931&page=4")_ (look for starcannon's posts which are quoted in many replies there (for instance #36 or #41). The only thing which I obviously did not follow was the point 1) because I already had downloaded the installation file and saved to my home directory.

Thanx to everybody and good luck to anyone who has similar problem.

---

### Post by happyhamster on 2008-11-23
> **Bezvardis said:**
> 
I see that some cpu does not support something in glxinfo. But can that be fixed or what is the reason?
That means that the cpu is too old according to the Nvidia driver. See for example: [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=108074](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=108074)

I have no experience with this myself, but the solution appears to be to downgrade the driver to version 100.14.19. I did a quick test on a 64bits Hardy Heron system, and that driver did appear to install properly. (Had to try a few times though: just make sure the previous driver is really gone.)

Nvidia driver archive:
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_archive.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_archive.html)

- To uninstall a previously (manually) installed driver you'll need that installer package:

sudo sh NVDIA-driver-name.run --uninstall


- Install new driver: press ctrl-alt-F2 and login

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

cd to-wherever-the-driver-is

sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-100.14.19-pkg2.run
(No need to type the entire line: you can type sudo sh NV and then press the tab key to let it autocomplete, or press tab twice to see the possible options)

- Restart:

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

- Should things go wrong, then "failsafe X" should kick in: just ignore it so it will bring up the desktop using vesa. And then try again. And again :)

Good luck, and keep us informed.



:lolflag: Apparently I'm way too slow, didn't see your post until finishing mine. Congrats on finding the real solution :)

---

