---
title: "Some of My Grub Menu Options Magically Disappeared"
date: 2024-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by arius88 on 2024-04-28
Hi helpful humans!

My computer is set up as a dual-boot system with Windows 7 on one partition, and Lubuntu on the other.
I mostly just use the Lubuntu system, but today, for the first time in a while, I wanted to use Windows.

Previously the Grub Menu had contained several options. I don't have them memorized but it was something like this:

Ubuntu
Ubuntu Advanced Options or Something
Mem Test
Mem Test
Windows 7 sda or sdb or whatever (Wrong, does not load windows)
Windows 7 sdsomethingelse (Correct)

The grub menu pops up every day when I boot my computer, but the first four options are the only ones that display, and then you have to scroll down to see the Windows 7 options, which I hadn't done in a while. I'm not sure how long it's been, probably months since I had any desire to use Windows. I mention this because I'm not sure how long my issue has been a thing. I suspect that the grub updated itself or something, and screwed itself up somehow. I certainly don't recall making any changes to it.

Today, I tried to scroll down the menu, and there IS no down. The options to boot Windows 7 are just... GONE. They no longer exist in the grub menu. 
What gives? And how do I fix it?

Is there a way to access the Windows Partition without it?

Thanks,
Arius

---

### Post by oldfred on 2024-04-28
Windows 7?? 
That was normally old BIOS/MBR configuration. Systems since 2012 are UEFI with gpt partitioning.
With old BIOS/MBR installs you only have one MBR (per drive).
So if you have two drives, do you have Windows boot loader in one drive & grub in other to allow boot of other system from BIOS?

Please copy & paste the pastebin link to the BootInfo summary report ( do not post report), do not run the auto fix till reviewed. Use often updated ppa version with your USB installer or any working install over somewhat older ISO. 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair) & 
[https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)

With newer UEFI systems, all systems have boot files in an ESP - efi system partition and can then be directly booted from UEFI boot menu. Windows often breaks grub boot of Windows, so that configuration is required.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2024-04-29
As a test, open a terminal and run

```
sudo update-grub
```

Watch the printout. Does it show Windows 7 as a boot option?

Regards

---

### Post by yancek on 2024-04-29
The simplest thing to attempt to repair this problem is the update -grub suggestion above and if that does not succeed, get boot repair as suggested in post 2 and make sure NOT to try to do a repair.   I have a number of questions but they should all be answered with the boot repair output.

---

### Post by arius88 on 2024-04-29
Ah. I just ran the boot repair and came back to find the update-grub messages. So I'll try that, but in the meantime here's the pastebin generated by boot-repair:

[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/CZK6bKPSn7/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/CZK6bKPSn7/)

Based on my reading of it, running boot-repair should fix my issue. But I'll try updating the grub and report back first.

Thanks for the responses! BRB.

---

### Post by arius88 on 2024-04-29
Update: running update-grub fixed it!

(And for the record it did show the Windows 7 partitions.)

Thanks everybody.

---

