---
title: "8.04  BIOS Information ?"
date: 2008-06-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2008-06-10
Is there a method or command available that outputs the information on the BIOS?

---

### Post by renfrew on 2008-06-10
try dmidecode, it uses the SMBIOS/DMI standard to report on system bios.  the package also comes with the biosdecode tool if you prefer

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2008-06-10
renfrew,
Thanks a lot for the reply. Your answer was what I was looking for.
:guitar:

One other question ...
What or where should I have looked to find the answer? I spent quite a bit of time searching but didn't come up with anything close.:confused:

---

### Post by renfrew on 2008-06-10
> What or where should I have looked to find the answer? I spent quite a bit of time searching but didn't come up with anything close. 

good question, I might have tried a search on packages.ubuntu.com from the web.  or if you are using synaptic, you can use the search tool to try to find packages based on functionality/description.  either way can be a little cryptic sometimes and you'll likely get more than one hit, but its a starting point.  I ended up searching the forums to find out about dmidecode, having come back to linux in the last year and forgetting most commands ;)

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2008-06-12
Thanks for the suggestions. Slowly I am learning a few things. Thank goodness for this forum and people like you. Without these, I think I would have given up long ago.

---

