---
title: ".bash_profile &amp; starting on login"
date: 2009-07-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lwsiv on 2009-07-14
Ok... I think I am going to feel real stupid when I see the answer, but I am being thick headed today...

I am trying to set up a .bash?? login script that when run will kick off an application at the end of it - for those of you who must know I am starting a virtual machine (vmplayer) when the user logs in.

I have modified the .bash_profile and .bash_login files (actually had to create them and add them to the users home directory) that will execute the vm. Yes the files have the right owner/group/execute perms. The content looks like:

<fully qual path to executable> <fully qual path to vm>

When I log in, nothing happens. When sourced and run any of these .bash? files will execute the vm properly. I have tried to test to see if these files are even being sourced at login, and it seems like they are not (I put a touch XXfile command in the files).

I am using the latest ubuntu release, nothing fancy. What am I doing wrong? Any help appreciated. Like I said, whenever a user logs in, I want to run this program upon login.

---

### Post by kogger on 2009-07-14
Go to System->Preferences->Startup Applications (or System->Preferences->Sessions, depending on your version of ubuntu) and add a command there. Not sure if I'm right about this, but I think the .bash files only run when you open a terminal, not when you log in.

---

### Post by lwsiv on 2009-07-14
Yea problem with that is I can't get the "user" context I need. It keeps giving me issues saying this or that file is not available due to the fact it appears to not have the user context.

I have tried to run the command as a shell script and:

source ~/.bashrc 

To try to get the local user context.

---

