---
title: "Web design software?"
date: 2011-08-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by whatthefunk on 2011-08-14
Just out of curiosity, is there any good web design software for Linux?  Something similar to Dreamweaver?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-08-14
web designing software 
lamp & wamp

---

### Post by The Addministrator on 2011-08-14
Uhm... I don't know what DreamWeaver is like, but Bluefish and Quanta Plus are both quite good Web Development Environments. Also, if you want a good all purpose IDE then you should try Geany. Good luck and I hope one of them works for you!

Please note: None of those are visual editors. They are all FOSS HTML Editors, except for Geany which is a FOSS light general purpose IDE that I like very much. If you want WYSIWYG then try KompoZer.

---

### Post by elgordodude on 2011-08-14
Kompozer

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2011-08-14
If your used to dreamweaver then Quanta is probably what you want. It's in the repositories.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-08-14
Kompozer, although I personally prefer Bluefish (but that's just me).

---

### Post by whatthefunk on 2011-08-14
Which one of these would be best for a web design newbie?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-08-15
> Which one of these would be best for a web design newbie?

Kompozer.

---

### Post by The Addministrator on 2011-08-15
```
#include <iostream>
```
```
using namespace std;
```
```
string NEWBIE-WYSIWYG_EXPLANATION;
```
```
int main ()
```
```
{
```
```
cin >> NEWBIE-WYSIWYG_EXPLANATION;
```
```
cout << NEWBIE-WYSIWYG_EXPLANATION;
```
Yes, KompoZer would be best for a newbie, because it is a WYSIWYG
(What You See Is What You Get) Editor, meaning to use it you do NOT have to learn HTML first. It's almost like typing in your text editor. However, the code generated by WYSIWYG editors is almost never even close to how clean or easy to edit the code is when you actually write it in HTML yourself. You should probably just stick to learning HTML and using a regular editor like Bluefish or Geany, however, that's just *my* opinion. I can't *really* explain how difficult it is to manually edit code generated by a WYSIWYG. It just makes it a lot harder.
```
return 0;
```
```
}
```

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-08-15
If you want to learn web=design.
You should try out `google sites'
it's free and has/lets you do everything online.
much easier than design, upload, verify links, etc.
you also have a server and basic domain and all the apps...

[http://www.google.com/sites/overview.html](http://www.google.com/sites/overview.html)

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-08-15
WYSIWYG apps are "OK" for throwing u pa few simple web pages, but they write sloppy code and if you are serious about web design there is no shortcut to learning html, css, php, js, etc.

In terms of an editor, personally I use vim, gedit, and bluefish in that order.

If you wish to view your web pages, open them with a few browsers. Firefox, IE, and chromium at a minimum, you will see the WYSIWYG editors are often WYSI NOT WYG.

---

### Post by whatthefunk on 2011-08-15
Thanks for the tips everyone.  Seems like the best way would be to start learning HTML.  Can anybody recommend an online guide or tutorial?

---

### Post by 1Michael1 on 2011-08-15
I use Bluefish for larger projects in php. For smaller ones I simply just use gedit. For Ruby on rails I tend to use RubyMine as IDE.

Edit:

HTML tutorial can be found here (There's thousands of them out there, pick whichever you feel most comfortable with):
[http://www.w3schools.com/html/default.asp](http://www.w3schools.com/html/default.asp)

---

### Post by maverickaddicted on 2011-09-08
Well, I use Dreamweaver, it works perfectly. However, sometime prefer Quanta Plus.

---

### Post by whatthefunk on 2011-09-08
Ive been using Bluefish and teaching myself HTML.  Its goin well so far.  Getting a basic webpage going is a lot easier than I thought.

---

### Post by rg4w on 2011-09-08
> **whatthefunk said:**
> Ive been using Bluefish and teaching myself HTML.  Its goin well so far.  Getting a basic webpage going is a lot easier than I thought.
Good move.  Even when using WYSIWYG editors, knowing what it's doing under the hood is very empowering.

And fun. Lots to learn, but well worth the effort.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-09-08
> **whatthefunk said:**
> Ive been using Bluefish and teaching myself HTML.  Its goin well so far.  Getting a basic webpage going is a lot easier than I thought.

Fantastic, IMO this is a much better approach. Yes there is a bit of a learning curve, but it is not *that* hard and the resulting code is much cleaner.

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-09-09
20 years of web design, now, if I was buildinf any of it, would use nu age cloud based tools...

---

