---
title: "14.04 keyboard keypress delay problem"
date: 2014-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by denis18 on 2014-04-29
I've encountered a wired problem. When I type I have to hold every key for at least a second in order for it to get recognized as pressed. It happens only when logged into a user account, not when switching users.

I don't know what caused it, I suspect it was remote desktop/vnc server because I started having this problem after enabling it and connecting to it using android vnc app bVNC pro.

Please help me fix it. It's very frustrating to type anything longer then a few characters in that user account. And I don't even know what's broken.

---

### Post by ashustrich on 2014-05-22
I have the same problem. Also there is no delay in console mode(ctrl+alt+1..6). Any ideas how to fix it?

---

### Post by ashustrich on 2014-05-23
I've found solution of this problem. Just open "System settings" >> "Universal access" >> "Typing" and disable "Slow Keys". Also you might disable "Enable by keyboard" to prevent enabling "Slow keys" in future.

---

### Post by denis18 on 2014-06-02
Thanks ashustrich, I'll check out that new "very useful feature" so I would know how not to accidentally enable it ever again. A few days after I posted it, it stopped doing that on it's own, I'm not sure what I did.

I wish Ubuntu team would focus on stability and reliability instead of introducing new features, so I could actually install it for my friends and and clients without subjecting them to this type of problems. General Public don't cage about new shiny features, they care about stability and reliability.

---

