---
title: "14.04 (Trusty Tahr) known bugs and work arounds"
date: 2014-04-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-04-17
During the development cycle, Trusty was pretty reliable, I only needed to do a fresh install once in the 6 months.

There were a few problems with permissions during the test cycle, but those were fixing during updates

Please post how you worked around any bugs that you run into.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-04-18
I started late in the beta cycle. **I performed fresh install in both cases**[INDENT]1) I found that application windows such as maximized Thunderbird did not display completely - by that I mean the min-max-close controls were not always visible. Since I really didn't like Unity anyway I choose to install Gnome-flashback which provided the correct display of the controls. Also it was an easy fix to move the controls to the upper right.
2) I tried to make the top panel transparent on my Dell laptop which caused 'Indicator Applet Complete' to fail upon boot. I attributed this to a relatively slow cpu / hard disk; the remedy was reverting to 'use system theme'[/INDENT]
Overall I give 14.04 an A minus:p since #1 doesn't matter to me and  #2 didn't affect my desktop HP

---

### Post by Petro Dawg on 2014-04-18
Pithos 0.3.18 does not display icon in indicator panel anymore (at least on my system), had to disable "show notification area icon" option and just minimize Pithos to launcher, otherwise it cannot be turned off easily.

Pithos also disables all sound control through the sound indicator menu, volume must be adjusted through "sound properties" in settings or using sound control buttons on keyboard until system is rebooted.

---

### Post by khatkarrohit on 2014-04-18
I installed Ubuntu 14.04 today. Its a fresh install. No windows are visible when I open applications. [Here is complete thread. ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217862")I am thinking to install Debian.

---

### Post by arm-c on 2014-04-19
Suspend / Resume:  If using NVIDIA card, the Noveau driver did not resume from suspend.  Changed to Proprietary NVIDIA driver and everything works great.

---

### Post by arm-c on 2014-04-19
All, I really thought this thread should contain posts of PROBLEM + SOLUTION/WORK AROUND

Recommend that this thread limits to that type of post... otherwise, post a issue without solution in an different thread or new thread.

---

### Post by khatkarrohit on 2014-04-20
The problem is Ubuntu 14.04 has disabled Workspace switcher by default. Its hard to find on which monitor Window appeared on first time if other monitor is off. Its better to turn on enable workspaces in settings to avoid confusion.
Settings-->Appearance-->Behaviour.

---

### Post by taytaybongsong on 2014-04-20
multiple people (including myself) appear to encounter serious issues when choosing to encrypt their home folder during installation of ubuntu 14.04 (and its flavors). it seems that during an install where this option is chosen, ubquity attempts to create a valid encrypted swap partition, but always ends up failing. so the user comes out on the other end with no functional swap space at all. 

see the following for more details:
- [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217889](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217889)
- [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2218354](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2218354)
- [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1303002](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1303002)

edit: temporary workarounds posted in the first thread i linked to above, but they're quite literally workarounds, in that they do not remedy the issue of ubuntu being unable to recognize and utilize encrypted swap partitions in the new LTS.

---

### Post by ephemerian on 2014-04-20
After upgrading from 13.10 to 14.04, I had no sound. No devices were present in the sound settings panel. After some searching, I added my userid to group audio:

> sudo usermod -a -G audio <myuserid>

then rebooted.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-20
> **arm-c said:**
> All, I really thought this thread should contain posts of PROBLEM + SOLUTION/WORK AROUND

Recommend that this thread limits to that type of post... otherwise, post a issue without solution in an different thread or new thread.

Correct. 
Posts which didn't offer a solution / workaround have been jailed.

---

### Post by Previous1 on 2014-04-21
**Ubiquity**: always installs grub to the first partition, even if this is not the partition Ubuntu was installed to. This means the system may not boot after install. 

*Workaround*: Set the boot-order in BIOS to boot from the first drive, and in a terminal
```
sudo grub-install /dev/sdb
```
Replace sdb with the partition ubuntu is installed to.

Other problems: Ubiquity may not allow you to set the Location properly, or detect an internet connection (even though package downloads still work).

*Workaround*: Adjust location and mirrors manually.


**Mounts**: after resuming from suspend, authentication is required to mount the DVD drive. Automounts on boot in Xubuntu don't work. Ejecting a DVD via the drive-button is not detected.

*Workaround*: switch to a different mounter, such as devmon (udevil).

Non-ubuntu related: udisks2 rules prevent certain drives from being mounted.

*Workaround*: as root, edit /lib/udev/rules.d/80-udisks2.rules and delete all lines from *"Devices which should not be display in the user interface"*.



**Thunar**: localization error. Non-ubuntu related: removing it gives "failed to execute: Success" when clicking desktop icons or emptying the trash via menu. 

Workaround: ?


**Network Manager**: Editing a connecting adds a duplicate.

Workaround: ?

---

### Post by grumblebum2 on 2014-04-21
> **Petro Dawg said:**
> Pithos 0.3.18 does not display icon in indicator panel anymore (at least on my system), had to disable "show notification area icon" option and just minimize Pithos to launcher, otherwise it cannot be turned off easily.

Pithos also disables all sound control through the sound indicator menu, volume must be adjusted through "sound properties" in settings or using sound control buttons on keyboard until system is rebooted.

I've seen this with other applications and the fix was to install **python-appindicator**
I installed Pithos and the icon shows in the panel.

---

### Post by agemini68 on 2014-04-21
I tried this when upgrading from 12.04 to 14.o4 and didn't work for me.This was meant for the one with the sound solution.

---

### Post by kowloon2 on 2014-04-21
After I upgraded from 12.04 to 14.04 I noticed every time I used qbittorrent it hugs my modem bandwith, I can't access any website.
Workaround: I removed qbittorrent using Ubuntu software and re-install, then problem resolved.

---

### Post by Petro Dawg on 2014-04-21
> **grumblebum2 said:**
> I've seen this with other applications and the fix was to install **python-appindicator**
I installed Pithos and the icon shows in the panel.

Thanks, that worked perfectly to put the icon in the panel.

Still have issue with sound controls being killed, however I found resetting the unity-panel-service will restore sound controls.  A workaround at the moment is to launch Pithos with the following command...

```
sleep 4 && killall unity-panel-service & pithos
```

Which launches Pithos, give 4 seconds for the first song to load, and then resets the sound controls.  Every thing works as expected afterwards.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-22
webgl no longer works on Chrome for intel iron-lake with i915 (and i965-va-driver),--may affect Chromium too but I don't use Chromium so can't say for sure. 
Open  Chrome, go to about:flags and enable "override software rendering list", re[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu]start [SIZE=2]Chrome and check about:gpu,  there is still only software rendering. Go to [https://webglsamples.googlecode.com/hg/aquarium/aquarium.html](https://webglsamples.googlecode.com/hg/aquarium/aquarium.html) and it is greyed. webgl and hardware acceleration work in 13.10 though.

Fix: upgrade kernel to 3.13.6 or 3.13.9 (or other 3.13.x, it seems that only 3.13.0.xx that shipped with Trusty don't work) 

P.S. 3.14.0 and 3.14.1 also** don't** work.
[/SIZE]
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by Michael_Ramsey on 2014-04-23
Like previously stated, upgrading and encrypting failed which left me with no swap. Not really a solution but booted without swap, snagged the files I didn't want to lose, and did a fresh install.

and

After fresh install I noticed PrtSc function did not work. When going to GIMP it would say something like "No image saved to blah blah blah". 

Solution is go to: Settings, Keyboards, Shortcuts, Screenshots, highlight Take A Screenshot and hit the keys I want press to screenshot.... Now works

and

Since install qBittorrent will not set to default no matter what I try. Will not auto open torrent nor will it pickup magnet links without manually copy link and enter.

Solution is more a change, I installed Azureus (Vuze) and it automatically set to default and magnet links work properly.



I'm sure most know how to fix those but I'm still learning. I just wish I could find a black theme like I had in 13.10

---

### Post by agemini68 on 2014-04-24
No sound, Sound in left speaker or one speaker only, Soundblaster Audigy SE by creative technologies: After installing the card you will have to do this: 

1. In the terminal, type alsamixer
2. Select your soundcard (press F6), mine was CA0106.
3. Look for stereo items with one channel muted (text beneath bars looks like "63<>0").
4. Make volumes equal (63<>63) using keyboard controls (UP/DOWN, Q/Z, E/C) [I have arrow keys]
5. Exit (ESC), no need to save manually. 				 			  			   		 			 			 			 				 					

After that, if you still don't have sound, for some odd reason you may have to select your microphone under input in the sound settings.  For me, I had to pick Microphone at the bottom, then I had sound. This will have to be done everytime you start the computer.

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-24
> **Previous1 said:**
> 

**Network Manager**: Editing a connecting adds a duplicate.

Workaround: ?

Log out and log back in again.  Duplicate gone.

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-24
**Feature**
Kernel OOPS on AMD64 kernel, seems related to Pulse Audio server/service and is logged in launchpad as[INDENT][https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...x/+bug/1305480](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...x/+bug/1305480)[/INDENT]

```

 BUG: pcmC0D0c:0, pos = 5461, buffer size = 5461, period size = 2730

```

[B]Workaround (confirmed)
[/B][INDENT]After a few days of operating the bug re-appeared.  Removed apport so bug reporting no longer happens.  Have a happy computer.[/INDENT]

---

### Post by sanderj on 2014-04-24
Problem: no flash in Chromium 
Solution / Workaround: install pepperflash. Or use Firefox

See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217956](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217956)

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2014-04-24
**Problem:** In Trusty Audacity has been compiled without the Libav library that it can use for import and export. This is because Audacity no longer successfully compiles against more recent versions of Libav.

**Solution:** It is possible to compile Audacity against a* local* installation of an older version of Libav and thus allow import and export of a greater range of audio media. A guide is being worked on to make the process a little less painful for Ubuntu users.

**Edit: **The guide has appeared:

Audacity under Trusty Tahr: Building it with FFmpeg 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2219907](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2219907)

---

### Post by Sef on 2014-04-26
> [COLOR=#000000]Suspend / Resume: If using NVIDIA card, the Noveau driver did not resume from suspend. Changed to Proprietary NVIDIA driver and everything works great.[/COLOR]

Had problems with Nouveau and my display settings that disappeared once I went back to NVIDIA's driver.

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-29
> **sanderj said:**
> Problem: no flash in Chromium 
Solution / Workaround: install pepperflash. Or use Firefox

See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217956](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217956)

Same problem, different workaround.... install Chrome direct for Google.  Do your own research as to the relative security of both.

---

### Post by timgood on 2014-05-01
Clementine compiled without full text search in Ubuntu: this results in very slow library searches (so slow you may think Clementine has frozen). Workaround: use global search or install Clementine's own package for Trusty from [https://www.clementine-player.org/downloads](https://www.clementine-player.org/downloads)

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2014-05-01
Problem: Fresh installation of Lubuntu 14.04 does not load menu or bottom panel after LightDM login.

Solution: CTRL-ALT-F1, login
```
sudo apt-get install lxde razorqt
sudo shutdown -r now 
```

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-05-16
Enable minimize application to panel without installing the CCSM in Unity.

```
gsettings set org.compiz.unityshell:/org/compiz/profiles/unity/plugins/unityshell/ launcher-minimize-window true
```

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-05-18
When ripping dvd with handbrake Unity becomes very slow, so slow that it is completely unusable (takes almost a minute to move a window) 
work around: disable handbrake's tray icon (the pinenapple thing that tells you the progress of ripping on the top panel). After that everything is normal again.

---

### Post by mymail21 on 2014-05-18
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]
System continuously restarts after upgrading to 14.04 trusty, tried fresh install from a pen drive and results are the same.

System ran fine on Ubuntu 13.10 for over 6 months
Memory : 7.2 GB
Processor : AMD A8-5500 APU with Radeon(tm) HD Graphics × 4
Graphics : VESA: DVST
OS type : 64bit
Disk : 110.1 GB 
 
No proprietary drivers are in use    
If I log in as a guest or even a newly created user it does the same thing, the only way I can stop the continuous restarting is to ctrl alt del and select adv user options/ recovery, but after the next restart the madness continues.      
Memory test passes with no errors, I disconected all drives other than O.S. solid state drive, disconnected all other accessories, keyboard, mouse, speakers, ethernet, everything one by one and restarted each time, with only ram and O.S. drive connected it still exhibits the same problem(continuous restart), it does appear to change the display resolution when restarting but no matter which resolution it sets, the results are the same, when starting in the safe graphics mode the results are the same.
(it does the same thing when booting from a usb pen drive),  freshly created boot ISO. with no other hardware connected and the memory passing full mem test without any errors, it really looks like some kind of hardware incompatibility bug with either my APU or SSD, the same newly created bootable pen drive works flawlessly on other computers.
I did notice that if I play a youtube video when it boots, that will stop the system from restarting continuously.....          



This is definitely a bug, I don't know if it's related to the mainboard (MSI FM2-A75IA-E53), SSD(SAMSUNG 840 EVO MZ-7TE120BW 2.5" 120GB SATA III TLC Internal Solid State Drive), or APU (AMD A8-5500 APU with Radeon(tm) HD Graphics × 4 - Gallium 0.4 on AMD ARUBA ) (64-bit O.S.) that's causing it.

Work around;
Once I realized that simply playing video would circumvent this bug, I then looked for a way to implement a screen saver at startup, I came up with XWINWRAP / GWINWRAP.
I installed XWINWRAP in terminal mode, then GWINWRAP and set it with a screensaver to run on startup, of course the screen saver stops as soon as you move the mouse, so it really has no ill effects and solves my problem while implementing a screensaver.
GETDEB Install Repository --> need to install first ---> http ://www.getdeb.net/updates/ubuntu/14.04/
GETDEB UPDATES --> http ://www.getdeb.net/updates/ubuntu/14.04/

GWINWRAP ---> https ://code.google.com/p/gwinwrap/  

XWINWRAP --> http ://tech.shantanugoel.com/resources/downloads/shantz-xwinwrap.zip   
This system ran perfectly without any issues on 13.10, the hardware has not changed and 14.04 trusty is not even compatible from a clean install because of this bug..., revert back to 13.10 and all is well, upgrade or attempt 14.04 trusty clean install and nothing works...., 

the above workaround fixed this bug for me.





[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by grumblebum2 on 2014-05-26
Problem: galternatives window fails to take any input.

 Solution:Create link in **/usr/sbin** to update-alternatives.
```
sudo ln -s /usr/bin/update-alternatives /usr/sbin/
```

---

### Post by Ashwij on 2014-07-07
Installed 14.04 64 bit afresh on my Asus with A4 - 5000. Works great except the display brightness controls (Fn+function). No solution. Simply using Catalyst and set max brightness and varibright.

---

### Post by Carl H on 2014-07-09
Installed onto a machine with an ATI 6530D graphics card and Unity was virtually unusable - very sluggish, low resolution. 

Solution as per my thread here:- [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2210877&p=12955391&viewfull=1#post12955391](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2210877&p=12955391&viewfull=1#post12955391)

---

### Post by themaninthehat on 2014-07-10
I set the Unity Launcher to auto-hide, and I set the keyboard shortcut for locking the screen to be Super+L. Of course the Super key is also the key that launches the Unity Search funcionality, so in particular it causes the Unity Launcher to pop out. The problem is that the system seems to get confused when it goes into the lock screen: when I unlock the screen, the Unity Launcher is stuck out there, when it should be auto-hiding.

Workaround: Either set the keyboard shortcut to something that does not involve the Super key, or else type Super Alt Alt to get the launcher unstuck.

---

### Post by clueo8 on 2014-07-11
I got the "Your current Hardware Enablement Stack (HWE)" because I'm on 12.04 LTS, so I installed the newer HWE version instead of going to 14.04... Upon reboot I was getting stuck in a busybox shell or something... I then wiped the drive and tried to install 14.04 fresh... During the install, it crashed at the partition choosing screen.  I figured out that 14.04 cannot see my SSD to do the install... I thought I was going crazy, I would take it out and it would work on other computers, but just not during the 14.04 install... I tried changing bios settings on the SSD but no luck... I then got the 12.04 install and it finds my SSD!  Is it possible that the new kernel in 14.04 isn't compatible with my setup and it's not allowing my hard drive to be seen!?  The computer is a ZOTAG MAG HD-ND01.

---

### Post by 5mZKCMUmw1Le on 2014-08-03
Installing proprietary AMD (and I think nVidia) drivers while an Intel integrated GPU is present results in an error screen at boot.

The solution is to go into BIOS and disable the integrated GPU.

Regards

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2014-09-11
Comment on post #29:

My newly build computer has allmost the same processor, with built in graphics:

Processor : AMD A8-6600 APU with Radeon(tm) HD Graphics × 4
Graphics : Gallium 0.4 on AMD ARUBA
OS type : 64bit

and it shows exactly the same behaviour that is described here.

The initial solution is very simple: use the boot parameter acpi=off

You can change the line (in /etc/default/grub):
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
to
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi=off"

and after saving this don't forget to do: sudo update-grub
I say: initially, as I still have the problem that after shutdown, the computer still reboots by itself, unless the power button is pressed when it has halted.

I guess it is a problem with the AMD processor, as that is (almost) the only thing common to your and my computers.

---

