---
title: "22.04 We need a new kernel"
date: 2024-02-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brightstargiftss on 2024-02-02
Running Operating System: Kubuntu 22.04
KDE Plasma Version: 5.24.7
KDE Frameworks Version: 5.92.0
Qt Version: 5.15.3
Kernel Version: 6.5.0-15-generic (64-bit)
Graphics Platform: X11
Processors: 4 × AMD A8-5600K APU with Radeon(tm) HD Graphics
Memory: 7.2 GiB of RAM
Graphics Processor: AMD ARUBA

My system freezes 3 to 4 times a day. Keyboard dead. Won't accept any keystrokes. It requires a reboot. Freezes happen using different apps for seemingly for no reason. Sometimes even when it's idle for several minutes.

I tried to download to the 5 series kernels but it never boots with any other kernel except 6.5.0.14 or .15.

Error message appears 4 times on boot:

```

UBSAN: array-index-out-of-bounds in /build/linux-hwe-6.5-BV4m5T/linux-hwe-6.5-6.5.0/drivers/gpu/drm/radeon/trinity_dpm.c:1765
:32                                                                                                                                       
[    3.363063] index 16 is out of range for type 'UCHAR [1]'
[    3.363066] CPU [B]: 0 PID: 117 Comm: systemd-udevd Not tainted 6.5.0-15-generic #15~22.04.1-Ubuntu


```

I know a lot of people are complaining about this because 20.04 was working without errors. The latest kernel update to .14 and .15 is the problem.

2 questions.

1. How can I downgrade my kernel to one that works (I've read all the articles and have downgraded kernels in other OSs but no other kernel will allow the computer to boot)?

2 Should I downgrade to 20.04 until the developers get this resolved?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2024-02-02
brightstargiftss - Hey hey

 > 
1. How can I downgrade my kernel to one that works


As you are running the HWE series kernel; how about considering installing the generic kernel ?
see:
```

sysop@x2204mini:~$ apt list -a linux-image-generic
Listing... Done
linux-image-generic/jammy-security,jammy-updates,now 5.15.0.92.89 amd64 [installed]
linux-image-generic/jammy 5.15.0.25.27 amd64

sysop@x2204mini:~$

```

reversion maybe the better option than a release downgrade installation.

[INDENT]lestways - just my thought[/INDENT]

---

### Post by brightstargiftss on 2024-02-06
Sad to say changing to the 5.15.0.92.89 kernel didn't solve my problem of my computer freezing up. This time, it froze while watching a Youtube video using Firefox. 20 minutes into the video, computer froze. I wasn't doing anything else. 

Couldn't find anything in any log.

It's not the computer because I can boot off of kubuntu 18.04 on another disk in the same system without it freezing.

So, maybe it isn't the kernel but 22.04 version. Looks like Limux Mint has the same problem.

This was a fresh (2 weeks ago) install on a new ssd drive. Since the computer locks up completely, I don't think it could be the drive.

Been using Kubuntu for 15 years now. Looks like I have to make a choice. Downgrade to 20.04 or switch to another distro. This is kind of a deal breaker for me. 

I'm open for ANY other suggestion, but I can't put up with this much longer.

Thank to anyone that has given me suggestions.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2024-02-07
I can only suggest that as an interim measure you can avoid rebooting by hitting [Ctrl+Alt+F1] for the lesser disruption of signing in again to desktop session to return to where you were before your freeze. Saves the reboot time.  But it is not a solution.  I am experiencing gltches with my wired mouse freezing (triple click not working at times) but i can try to work with this annoyance of frequently having to login again to desktop session. Mouse works always in Windows 10 without freezing. This is a fresh installation of 22.04 on new SSD. Dual boot setup.
I recollect methods I have tried in the past to crack this freezing issue:
(a) clean edges of RAM board with white spirit, dry and reinsert
(b) purchase more RAM
(c) disable extensions in Firefox (try firefox profiles)

It is difficult to track down.

[FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]apt list -a linux-image-generic[/COLOR]
Listing... Done
[COLOR=#18B218]linux-image-generic[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]/jammy-updates,jammy-security 5.15.0.94.91 amd64[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#18B218]linux-image-generic[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]/jammy 5.15.0.25.27 amd64[/COLOR]

[/FONT]

---

### Post by foxsquirrel on 2024-02-11
> **brightstargiftss said:**
> Downgrade to 20.04 

That is what we had to do here. It really made a mess because we are using 22.04 out of the box (only thing added was vmware) to host VMware pro.

It seems like the kernel signing has some issues and maybe some other things.

Just downloaded Trixie and it is on the 6.6 kernal, it is in a VM so it always runs good in a VM. Have another machine coming in and that one will have a real install of Debian 13(testing version) and see what happens. I cannot believe this happened to us too, our policies are going to be changed to avoid this in the future. Not sure why they are pushing kernel versions in LTS editions. Nothing wrong with a new kernel, but when you are running a heavy load and it breaks its not good.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2024-02-12
Staying with 22.04 since I must press on I am still researching cause of this instability. I can just about tolerate interrupting my workflow by having to hit [Ctrl+Alt+F1] to restart session (quicker than reboot) but it is annoying.

Found this discussion.

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1443251/ubuntu-22-04-1-lts-freezes-few-times-per-hour-and-very-unstable](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1443251/ubuntu-22-04-1-lts-freezes-few-times-per-hour-and-very-unstable)

My Stacer dashboard shows:
Kernel release: 6.5.0 generic

Tried: $ nvidia-smi

Then: $ sudo apt install nvidia-utils-510

But now and again the mouse clicking is unstable.

[To a mouse - Rabbie Burns]("https://www.scottishpoetrylibrary.org.uk/poem/mouse/")

Also Bluetooth failing to connect to devices.

---

### Post by nathan.natedogg on 2024-04-04
I'm having about the same kind problem with a GIGABYTE M13XAP-00 on a AMD A8-5545M APU

With both 5.X and 6.X kernels I'm getting a error:

UBSAN: array-index-out-of-bounds in both radeon_atombios.c and trinity_dpm.c

To fix this I just disabled dpm by adding radeon.dpm=0 to /etc/default/grub, then update-grub2

So far so good. Other wise to make it sable would be to just blacklist the radeon module or set radeon.modeset=0 in grub.

---

