---
title: "14.4 - Why am I getting UPDATES?"
date: 2016-12-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2016-12-08
We live out in the country with abysmally slow Internet access so I have Updates set to "Never" so I can run them of an evening when I am done for the day.

Two days back and now again today I am suddenly presented with "The computer needs to restart to finish installing updates."

The only PPA addition to the standard settings is for Wine, BUT there is no indication of what is being updated.

So, what's the point of having "Never' as an option if it is ignored? 

Is there some way I can make "Never" actually mean "Never?"

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-12-08
Works here, never get auto updates. Maybe check & see what you have for the middle option, set as in screen if not like that already.

---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2016-12-09
Thanks Mc4, but as you can see, already have that set and more.

PLUS, just got another "Restart Now" or "Remind me Later" prompt. 

Kinda worrying. I have just changed over from windows to get away from this crap.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2016-12-09
> **FerryGnu said:**
> We live out in the country with abysmally slow Internet access so I have Updates set to "Never" so I can run them of an evening when I am done for the day.

Two days back and now again today I am suddenly presented with "The computer needs to restart to finish installing updates."

Perhaps there was a kernel update last time around? 

> **FerryGnu said:**
> BUT there is no indication of what is being updated. Check ```
tail -n 20 /var/log/apt/history.log
```

---

### Post by karl96 on 2016-12-09
Comment out the ubuntu repositories in ```
 /etc/apt/sources.list 
```

---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2016-12-09
> **oldos2er said:**
> Check ```
tail -n 20 /var/log/apt/history.log
```

Awesome, thanks, I will check that the next time it happens.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-12-09
> **karl96 said:**
> Comment out the ubuntu repositories in ```
 /etc/apt/sources.list 
```

That will prevent all updates under all circumstances. I do not recommend it.
If you do it, remember to uncomment those sources when you do want to upgrade.

---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2016-12-11
Thanks, but I'm ahead of you on that. 

I have not seen the issue since posting. But will use the "tail" command to inspect, if/when it happens again.

---

