---
title: "18.04 - unsupported packages"
date: 2020-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by donbcilly on 2020-08-11
On 18.04 LTS-based systems - which I would continue to use for as long as possible - I got a little worried about EOL.
According to [this page]("https://ubuntu.com/about/release-cycle"), we're approaching EOL for "hardware" updates, but should be OK for a while for the rest.

Now, if I type[FONT=courier new]
ubuntu-support-status --show-unsupported[/FONT]
I get
```

You have 1550 packages (62.0%) supported until April 2023 (Canonical - 5y)
You have 346 packages (13.8%) supported until April 2021 (Community - 3y)
You have 2 packages (0.1%) supported until April 2021 (Canonical - 3y)

[B]You have 23 packages (0.9%) that can not/no-longer be downloaded
You have 580 packages (23.2%) that are unsupported[/B]

Your Hardware Enablement Stack (HWE) is supported until April 2023.

```

Now, the 23 that "can not/no-longer be downloaded" do not worry me much.
The 580 "that are unsupported", worry me a bit more.

Thing is, I'm really not sure what it means.
Among them, google-chrome-stable is listed.
But I just typed [FONT=courier new]apt list --upgradable -v[/FONT] and google-chrome-stable **is** listed.

:confused:

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2020-08-11
Most unsupported packages are simply unknown support.
Meaning any bugs found have no guarantee a developer will look at it or fix it.

As for Google Chrome, it is not an Ubuntu package and all updates are controlled outside the Ubuntu ecosystem.

---

### Post by donbcilly on 2020-08-11
True that. It is **not** an Ubuntu package. It's got a separate PPA for it. :)
I wonder why it's *listed* as "unsupported... I just mentioned it because, it was listed, and it was upgradable.

Thing is, **dolphin **is listed too. kate. ffmpeg. okular. yakuake. wine.
I can live (work)  without a lot of stuff, but dolphin and kate... ugh.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2020-08-11
dolphin and kate definitely have support still (for another year) on 18.04.
Do you have any added repositories or PPAs?

---

### Post by donbcilly on 2020-08-11
[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/Bp53XhRFQp/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/Bp53XhRFQp/)

I do have some 3rd party repos, but not for dolphin or kate... ;·)

[EDIT] Just trying to understand what "unsupported" means - in that context - really.

---

