---
title: "9 04 ??"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by XeiaieX on 2009-04-23
It is now 12:15 AM PST and the ubuntu site now says "Coming Soon", yet it still is not up for download.. Just wondering what's going on if anyone knows.

:(

---

### Post by krnekhelesh on 2009-04-23
yeah, I was also wondering the same thing. It should be out by now.

---

### Post by leonardo_neo on 2009-04-23
> **XeiaieX said:**
> It is now 12:15 AM PST and the ubuntu site now says "Coming Soon", yet it still is not up for download.. Just wondering what's going on if anyone knows.

:(

Getting impatient? lol

I think it should be there by morning. Wait for few more hours and have a good sleep. :)

---

### Post by XeiaieX on 2009-04-23
Do you know why there would be a delay like this?

---

### Post by XeiaieX on 2009-04-23
double posted

---

### Post by ubockto on 2009-04-23
Think it will be available in American Time, and rather than other times

---

### Post by ju2wheels on 2009-04-23
When Intrepid released it wasnt out in regular circulation until midday around 12pm EST US time. So I expect thats what would happen today. They have to allow time for the mirrors to get a chance to sync first before everyone else does.

---

### Post by XeiaieX on 2009-04-23
I can't wait! It looks like it will be an AMAZING OS! Each release gets better and better. I love it.

---

### Post by slibuntu on 2009-04-23
Canonical is based in England, so its more likely that they would work off GMT time.

Secondly, as a veteran of 6 releases now, I usually find it starts to come online sometime in the morning, around 11 or so GMT

---

### Post by slibuntu on 2009-04-23
If you're impatient, here's the thread where people are witing, and people will post up as soon as it comes available
[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1132969"]
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1132969[/URL]

---

### Post by &#1575;&#1604;&#1600;&#1588;&#1600;&#1576;&#1600;&#1581; on 2009-04-23
it has been uploaded on some mirrors

[ftp://www.mirrorservice.org/sites/releases.ubuntu.com/.pool/](ftp://www.mirrorservice.org/sites/releases.ubuntu.com/.pool/) 

but I'm not sure 
ts better to wait for the main website

---

### Post by Mr. Hibba on 2009-04-23
When it's released, will I be able to get it through the system update utility? Or, will I need to burn it to CD and install it?

Mr. Hibba.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-04-23
Now how does that saying go again? Ah yes, patience is a [s]virgin[/s] virtue

---

### Post by XeiaieX on 2009-04-23
Thanks for the replies everyone.

I don't feel comfortable downloading anything other than the official from ubuntu.com, so I will be waiting, or trying to!

Mr. Hibba, you can upgrade to Jaunty, personally, I will be installing it fresh from CD.

---

### Post by ge0rge04 on 2009-04-23
Hi.
Would this release be available on all Ubuntu local mirrors as soon as it's released?

---

### Post by QueenZ on 2009-04-23
It's late.. is it on the servers already?

---

### Post by XeiaieX on 2009-04-23
> **QueenZ said:**
> It's late.. is it on the servers already?

Not yet.

---

### Post by XeiaieX on 2009-04-23
If we are waiting for Hawaii, 5 more minutes. Who knows.

---

### Post by XeiaieX on 2009-04-23
> **XeiaieX said:**
> If we are waiting for Hawaii, 5 more minutes. Who knows.

Guess not :(

---

### Post by XeiaieX on 2009-04-23
it is now online: [http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/9.04/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/9.04/) :D

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2009-04-23
I've not seen much in the way of updated packages these last couple days.
I think it's safe to say those of us who are up to date on Jaunty are pretty close to the final release.

---

### Post by ju2wheels on 2009-04-23
> **hikaricore said:**
> I've not seen much in the way of updated packages these last couple days.
I think it's safe to say those of us who are up to date on Jaunty are pretty close to the final release.

No, thats not true. Running a typical update when using the Jaunty RC or before may not bring up updates, in fact, in my VM it didnt bring up any. You had to force a distribution upgrade in order to get the updates as follows:

```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

```

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2009-04-23
> **Mr. Hibba said:**
> When it's released, will I be able to get it through the system update utility? Or, will I need to burn it to CD and install it?

Mr. Hibba.

You will be able to get it through a system update.

---

### Post by zero777zero on 2009-04-23
torrents (faster download speeds)

[http://torrent.ubuntu.com:6969/](http://torrent.ubuntu.com:6969/)

---

### Post by j7%&lt;RmUg on 2009-04-23
Lol its fun watching people pee themselves out of anxiety for an OS. Im gonna wait till tomorrow afternoon so im not harried by the servers.

Long live ubuntu!

---

### Post by TheExplorer on 2009-04-23
Go [here]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/") and open [this]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/ubuntu-9.04-desktop-i386.metalink") file to get an enormous list of links to download the Ubuntu 9.04 Desktop i386 release.

---

### Post by QueenZ on 2009-04-23
> **TheExplorer said:**
> Go [here]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/") and open [this]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/ubuntu-9.04-desktop-i386.metalink") file to get an enormous list of links to download the Ubuntu 9.04 Desktop i386 release.

is that the real thing?

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2009-04-23
> **ju2wheels said:**
> No, thats not true. Running a typical update when using the Jaunty RC or before may not bring up updates, in fact, in my VM it didnt bring up any. You had to force a distribution upgrade in order to get the updates as follows:

```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

```
> 
[hikaricore@devistate:~ (879.4 Mb)]$ sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Calculating upgrade... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

:lolflag:

As I was saying.  Not much in the way of updates and still none now.
About all I saw was firefox and a few other small things the other day.

---

### Post by Mr. Hibba on 2009-04-24
> **XeiaieX said:**
> 

Mr. Hibba, you can upgrade to Jaunty, personally, I will be installing it fresh from CD.

> **Paul41 said:**
> You will be able to get it through a system update.

Thanks, to the both of you. :)

---

