---
title: "11.10 to 12.04 update failed. GUI, keyboard, mouse don't work"
date: 2013-08-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by offroadguy56 on 2013-08-05
Since people have ignored my Ask Ubuntu post I'll put it here.


I updated my system to 12.4 using the update manager. I'm able to log into the desktop but the  keyboard and mouse do not work. Also the GUI is slightly off. The only  thing in the top right corner is the logged in username and the time, no  sound or wifi icon. The icons on the left side taskbar are blank. The  only icon that shows is Teamviewer. 
  
I would also like the mention that before the update i was getting a line 59 error with the sources.list file. 

  I can use the superkey (windows key) and bring up the dash. At that point i can use the keyboard but not the mouse.  I cansearch for the terminal and execute it but i cant do anything within the terminal. 

  
My gf just now managed to open up a folder and navigate to a mp4  file. The video is playing right now but there is no sound and we cant  close out pf he video player. We're able to navigate thru folder  structures with he arrow keys but no other keyboard keys seem to work  unless we're in a search box or something. 

here are some pics: [http://imgur.com/XFXWN8y](http://imgur.com/XFXWN8y) [http://imgur.com/8GS0knH](http://imgur.com/8GS0knH) [imgur.com/p2ot0zE]("http://imgur.com/p2ot0zE") [imgur.com/0bOzfwj]("http://imgur.com/0bOzfwj")\

if you need anymore information let me know.

---

### Post by offroadguy56 on 2013-08-12
bump

---

### Post by Boab1993 on 2013-08-12
[FONT=arial]Hi offroadguy56,

This is a problem with getting data from ubuntu, so the update is incomplete.

Press ctrl+alt+f2

A command screen should appear, login using your username and password.

After this type:

[/FONT][SIZE=2][FONT=arial]sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sourcesbackup.list.backup[/FONT][/SIZE][FONT=arial]

This creates a backup of your file before you edit it, this is good practise as everything can go wrong if your not careful

Then type:
[/FONT]
    [FONT=arial]gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
[/FONT][FONT=arial]

Take a screen shot of this and post it on this forum thread.

[/FONT]

---

### Post by offroadguy56 on 2013-08-15
I'll do that.
But someone fell on the screen and completely destroyed it.

I'll get back to this once I have it replaced. I hope you can wait that long.


Thanks.

Is there any other information you can give? What happens once I get the contents of the sources.list.

---

### Post by Boab1993 on 2013-08-15
Hi there, 

That is a bit of misfortune youve ran into there, i remember when i went to go visit my brother and he sat on my laptop, had a great time sourcing parts.

Well basically this is to first make a back-up of your source list so if anything goes wrong we have a less broken version.

Then what im looking for in your screen shots is at line 59 there should be an error, most likely that will be a repository/archive address most likely thats wrong in some way.

All you should have to do is rectify the problem at line 59, and aslong as there are no more errors in the list you should be able to update seemlessly by typing : 

sudo do-release-upgrade

---

### Post by offroadguy56 on 2013-08-17
I "fixed" the line 59 error when I first tried to update.

It wouldn't let me update because of that line 59 error.

But I see what you mean. If I put in the wrong version then it wouldn't update properly.

---

### Post by chkneater on 2013-08-17
Or a possible solution would be to get rid of the unity desktop and use the Gnome Desktop which the directions are for at the top sticky.

---

