---
title: "11.04 grub issue"
date: 2011-07-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
I have 2 HDD. one running windows 7 and the other one had some previous OS XP files with some other contents. I want to keep the second Hard Drive because i have some imporant files, so instead of copying it i thought of keeping it and installed ubuntu 11.04 64 bit on it also. I now have Dual boot on startup. Win 7 or Ubuntu. Ran fine for 2 months until i did a security update on Ubuntu and restarted to install the updtes. When i restarted and go to ubuntu OS i can't pass the grub screen. Windows 7 works fine but Ubuntu is stuck on grub. 

I did not have alot of success with the newest version of 11.04. Although, it looks fantastic but i've already installed it twice in 2 months. Previously i had an issue where all my desktop icons were gone and it seems like the compiz got corrupted or something happened to it. I do hope that i don't have to reinstall ubuntu again because i don't want to loose what i have. So i am asking to see if there is any help i can get. I searched alot on the forums and google and found different solutions but wanted to ask to see which one worked the best.

---

### Post by macaholic on 2011-07-14
What exactly do you mean when you say you can't get past the grub screen? Can you not even select Ubuntu or does it not load after you select it?

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
> **macaholic said:**
> What exactly do you mean when you say you can't get past the grub screen? Can you not even select Ubuntu or does it not load after you select it?


Sorry for not been very clear. On startup it asks me to select the option on which OS i need to boot. Win 7 works fine but when i select Ubuntu all it does is give me a screen like this :-

press tab for more commands.....
grub>

I can't by pass this screen to go to my Ubuntu Desktop.

---

### Post by macaholic on 2011-07-14
It seems GRUB is having issues on your install. I think you're going to need a live cd/USB drive and eiher diagnose and fix grub manually, or try something like the tool described [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10871917&postcount=1").

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
> **macaholic said:**
> It seems GRUB is having issues on your install. I think you're going to need a live cd/USB drive and eiher diagnose and fix grub manually, or try something like the tool described [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10871917&postcount=1").

Just curious to see if the bootloader will only repair on Ubuntu and have nothing to do with windows7 OS correct ?. If that is correct then i will download the ISO file and will burn it in the CD and then will boot my PC through the CD. I am hoping it will take me to the ubuntu desktop and then it will ask me for resintalling the grub.. Do i need to know the patition where ubuntu is installed or the Secured Ubuntu will automatically detect it ?.

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
> **macaholic said:**
> It seems GRUB is having issues on your install. I think you're going to need a live cd/USB drive and eiher diagnose and fix grub manually, or try something like the tool described [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10871917&postcount=1").

I just dont want to mess up my windows 7. Initially it came with when i bought it and i installed ubuntu after that.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-07-14
Without running this bootscript it is just a quessing game on what is wrong.
Download this script to desktop and then right click on and extract. Then run code below.

[SourceForge.net: Boot Info Script - Project Web Hosting - Open Source Software]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/")

```
  sudo bash ~/Desktop/boot_info_script.sh
```

Now copy and paste the RESULTS text file to this thread.

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
Boot Info Script 0.60    from 17 May 2011


============================= Boot Info Summary: ===============================

 => Windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda.
 => Windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb.

sda1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows Vista/7
    Boot sector info:   No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows 7
    Boot files:        /bootmgr /Boot/BCD /Windows/System32/winload.exe 
                       /wubildr /wubildr.mbr

sdb1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows XP
    Boot sector info:   No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows XP
    Boot files:        /boot.ini /ntldr /NTDETECT.COM /ubuntu/winboot/wubildr 
                       /ubuntu/winboot/wubildr.mbr

============================ Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda _____________________________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders, total 488397168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

/dev/sda1    *          2,048   488,394,751   488,392,704   7 NTFS / exFAT / HPFS


Drive: sdb _____________________________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sdb: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders, total 312581808 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

/dev/sdb1    *             63   312,576,704   312,576,642   7 NTFS / exFAT / HPFS


"blkid" output: ________________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs   
/dev/sda1        C2C0BF73C0BF6BF3                       ntfs       
/dev/sdb1        D0BC37DBBC37BB34                       ntfs       

================================ Mount points: =================================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (ro,noatime)
/dev/sr0         /cdrom                   iso9660    (ro,noatime)


================================ sdb1/boot.ini: ================================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[boot loader]

timeout=30

default=multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS

[operating systems]

multi(0)disk(0)rdisk(0)partition(1)\WINDOWS="Microsoft Windows XP Professional" /fastdetect /NoExecute=OptIn

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
buntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo grub
sudo: grub: command not found
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo grub
sudo: grub: command not found
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ find /boot/grub/stage1
find: `/boot/grub/stage1': No such file or directory

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-07-14
Do not install grub2's boot loader to the MBR. The command you posted were for the old version of grub legacy anyway.

Your install is wubi which is a version that runs from the windows boot loader and is just a file inside the windows NTFS partition. In fact you show two installs one in each version of windows.

Wubi is intended as an extended test for windows users as it does not required repartitioning and can easily be uninstalled. It is not for long term use.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wubi](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wubi)

[http://howsoftwareisbuilt.com/2009/03/12/interview-with-agostino-russo-wubi-ubuntu/](http://howsoftwareisbuilt.com/2009/03/12/interview-with-agostino-russo-wubi-ubuntu/)
Agostino: Wubi actually wasn’t designed to do long-term installations. The main aim was really to let people try out Ubuntu with confidence. Normally, users that start with Wubi tend to upgrade to a full installation to a dedicated partition at the next release cycle.

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
i agree but if i do an uninstall then i will loose all of my programs which i used when running Ubuntu OS. So there is no way to get around this ?. I thought installing through the wubi.exe gives full Ubuntu Desktop facilities.

---

### Post by Snowboi on 2011-07-14
The easiest method i can think of relating to grub is burning a super grub disk. Assuming you have not switched ubuntu 11.04 uses grub2 by default. So you can either burn a rescatux cd or a super grub2 disk. Iv personally had issues where grub upon update has given me issues the disk never fails me.

You can burn a copy at
[www.supergrubdisk.org](www.supergrubdisk.org)

Use it like you would a live cd then just click grub-install.

(it opens a window when you boot it - NOTE : USE LIVE WHEN BOOTING)

then follow these options

grub > grub-install > run > *select partition affected* > *select drive affected* > *select positions* it should tell you grub is installed successfully restart into ubuntu and done.

NOTE : if this method does not work you have chosen a wrong drive, position or partition.

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
Well that is what i am wondering. I never used the first partition for installing Ubuntu. When i run wubi i told to put it in my Windows Xp partition cause that HDD is from my old desktop but had some important files which i don't want to loose.

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
I also downloaded the wubuldr file but when moved it in my Windows 7 partition nothing happens. Should i try to move the file where Xp is installed ?

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
So i found this link :-

[http://calamari.wordpress.com/2009/12/01/fixing-a-broken-wubi-grub-after-ubuntu-updates/](http://calamari.wordpress.com/2009/12/01/fixing-a-broken-wubi-grub-after-ubuntu-updates/)

It looks like i should be issuing these commands on the grub shell with the output of my ubuntu installation as mentioned in my previous post ?. Can you confirm please ?

linux /boot/vmlinuz-(Your version of the kernel) root=/dev/sdb1 loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro

sh:grub> initrd /boot/initrd.img-(Your version of the kernel)


sh:grub> boot

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-07-14
If you want to convert to a full install you can. You need to backup /home as that has all your user settings & your data. You can also export a list of installed apps and reinstall those from the list.

HOWTO: migrate wubi install to partition - bcbc 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354)

from post by lovinglinux - use dpkg to list installed apps
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157175&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157175&postcount=5)
[http://kevin.vanzonneveld.net/techblog/article/restore_packages_using_dselectupgrade/](http://kevin.vanzonneveld.net/techblog/article/restore_packages_using_dselectupgrade/)
From old install
dpkg --get-selections > ~/my-packages
From New install
sudo dpkg --set-selections < my-packages
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-14
Well i've tried several different senarios and none of them work. I can see ubuntu folder and can see /ubuntu/install/.fuse_hidden0000, /ubuntu/winboot/wubildr..wu*.cfg,wu*.mbr and wu*-bootstrap,  but cannot see /ubuntu/disks/root.disk folder.

After reading the ubuntu wubi wiki i found as the Author suggested to see if there are any found.000 folder which i can see it also but cannot access it. So i don't know what contains in that folder.

---

### Post by Snowboi on 2011-07-14
> **randy1 said:**
> Well i've tried several different senarios and none of them work. I can see ubuntu folder and can see /ubuntu/install/.fuse_hidden0000, /ubuntu/winboot/wubildr..wu*.cfg,wu*.mbr and wu*-bootstrap,  but cannot see /ubuntu/disks/root.disk folder.

After reading the ubuntu wubi wiki i found as the Author suggested to see if there are any found.000 folder which i can see it also but cannot access it. So i don't know what contains in that folder.

You can open up a terminal and type in 

```
gksudo nautilus
```

Then you can see the folder with root permissions.

---

### Post by randy1 on 2011-07-16
Ok guys. I finally solved the issue. If i would have read the wubi guide posted by one of the person in the thread i would have been much successful earlier. The problem was it was so frustrating that i did not bother to read it.

Anyhow this is what i did. I ran a checkkdisk on the drive where i installed Wubi. Once check disk completed it outputted a folder named folder.000. You will have to go and set the folders settings to see 'Hidden files and folders'. Once i found it i saw root.disk file. I copied in appropriate ubintu directory which should be ubuntu/disks/root.disk and restarted works like a charm.

Now i am using 11.04 and when i went to sympatic manager i see grub-pc. But over there i cannot see an option of removing it so it does not update the package. All i see was remove completely which i am assugming might remove grub when i restart ?.

---

