---
title: "Problem with WUBI at dual-boot."
date: 2007-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by FredDre on 2007-05-12
Well, I've downloaded Wubi and the ISO file, then I restarted my computer and selected Ubuntu, but it says that some dll file is missing.
My windows partition is not C:/, but F:/.
I think that's the problem because all the files generated by Wubi are for the C:/ partition...
What can I do?

---

### Post by ago on 2007-05-13
copy grub.exe, grldr, menu.lst from c:\ to f:\

---

### Post by FredDre on 2007-05-13
Done that, it doesn't work

---

### Post by shppotta on 2007-05-14
Hi FredDre,
i have the same issue, my windows partition is F: and it doesnt't work.
Have you resolved it?

Thanks

---

### Post by ago on 2007-05-14
Can you provide me with exact info on what you see and any error? Did you put c:\menu.lst c:\grldr and c:\grub.exe on both partitions?

---

### Post by shppotta on 2007-05-14
The error says of a missing dll in windows\system 32, now i don't remember the name exactly.

When i try to install, it creates a boot.ini file in C: with only the Ubuntu selection, but my real boot.ini is in F: partition and it doesn't updated with ubuntu selection. What have i to make with boot.ini files?

I put only menu.lst and grldr in F:, now i will try to put them on both partitions and I 'll add the grub.exe file.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by ago on 2007-05-14
Copy the last line from the C:\boot.ini to f:\boot.ini

C:\grldr="Ubuntu"

Leave "C:" even if grldr is on the F drive, I do not think it will work with "F:".

---

### Post by shppotta on 2007-05-21
Thank you very much.
It works very well.
Great!
Bye

---

