---
title: "32 or 64 bit"
date: 2010-04-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bananashake on 2010-04-10
I very recently installed Ubuntu 9.10 and I think I installed the 32 bit version.
Would I be better off if I installed the 64 bit version?
Or maybe it doesn't matter?
Thank you very much..

Here are the specs on my computer:
Motherboard:  Biostar TA790GXE    [www.biostar.com.tw](www.biostar.com.tw) 
Board size:  225 mm (W) x 305 mm (L)  ATX 
Chipset:  AMD 790GX     AMD SB750
Supports Hyper Transport 3.0 and PowerNow 
CPU Socket:   AM2+  AMD Athlon 64 / Athlon 64 FX / Athlon 64 X2  / Sempron / Phenom processors. AMD 64 Architecture enables 32 and 64 bit computing. 
 
Main memory:  DIMM Slots x 4  Each DIMM supports 256MB/512MB/1GB/2GB/4GB DDR2 
Max Memory Capicity 16GB 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Processor: AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 4400+
Frequency: 1000.000 MHz   L2 Cache: 512 KB
Bobomips:  2000.08        Numbering:family(15) model(107) stepping(2)
Flags:  fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt rdtscp lm 3dnowext 3dnow extd_apicid pni cx16 lahf_lm cmp_legacy svm extapic cr8_legacy 3dnowprefetch
_________________________________________
END OF MESSAGE

---

### Post by Skidbladnir on 2010-04-10
It generally runs faster if you have more ram.  So, if you have over 3GB (I think that's it.  Right?) of RAM, use 64 bit.  Otherwise, you probably won't notice a difference.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-04-10
Stick with your 32-bit edition for now. If you ever reinstall Ubuntu, you can use the 64-bit edition. If 32-bit is working for you, then there's no need to mess with it. Hopefully by the time you install 64-bit Ubuntu, there will be an official release version of 64-bit Flash Player.

---

### Post by Skidbladnir on 2010-04-10
Oh, yeah!  I forgot!  Flash player is EXTREMELY buggy with 64bit.  That means: No youtube without headaches.  So, yes, stick to 32 bit until adobe can work out the kinks.  Hopefully in time for Lucid!

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-04-11
> **Skidbladnir said:**
> Oh, yeah!  I forgot!  Flash player is EXTREMELY buggy with 64bit.  That means: No youtube without headaches.

Really? I don't have any problems with Youtube on 64-bit. I am using the alpha 64-bit Flash Player.

---

### Post by Tman5293 on 2010-04-11
Well technically 64-bit is faster and should be used on 64-bit processors.

---

### Post by Skidbladnir on 2010-04-11
Huh; I remember using a 64bit system and flash was a nightmare; Youtube was just awful... Of course that was an earlier version... The one right before 8.04, I can't remember what it was...

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-04-11
> **Skidbladnir said:**
> Oh, yeah!  I forgot!  Flash player is EXTREMELY buggy with 64bit.  That means: No youtube without headaches.  So, yes, stick to 32 bit until adobe can work out the kinks.  Hopefully in time for Lucid!

No problems here running 64bit flash, and I go to tons of flash dependent sites. Even full screen flash is perfect. A lot of 64bit users have problems because they use a wrapper to use 32bit flash. The 64bit plugin may be officially alpha or beta, but it works fine.
> **Skidbladnir said:**
> Huh; I remember using a 64bit system and flash was a nightmare; Youtube was just awful... Of course that was an earlier version... The one right before 8.04, I can't remember what it was...
Yeah, that was when it was in it's infancy. It's fine now. Moonlight 3, codecs, and plugins all work as well for me in 64bit as they did in 32.

---

### Post by filip007 on 2010-04-11
No need for 64bit, stick with 32bit and 2GB Ram or 3GB use 2x512MB and 2x1GB to work as dual channel. There is no absolute use of 4GB and more but Windows think there is.

---

### Post by Skidbladnir on 2010-04-11
Well, then I wish I had more ram... and a bigger hard drive... and a 64bit computer... =3

---

### Post by DeMus on 2010-04-11
When you have more than **3 GB RAM** memory ( the limit for 32 bits systems) **AND** you are using programs which let the processor run at 100% load all the time then it is useful to have the 64 bit version. Otherwise there is absolutely no need. The 64 bit version can handle larger numbers in one time instead of having to make 2 calculations.
It is true there are some problems with flash in 64 bit although there is also a good working version, which is still in Alpha. I use it for a long time and it works great.
I would say it depends entirely on yourself whether you choose 32 or 64 bit.

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-04-11
> **filip007 said:**
> No need for 64bit, stick with 32bit and 2GB Ram or 3GB use 2x512MB and 2x1GB to work as dual channel. There is no absolute use of 4GB and more but Windows think there is.

It depends on what you do with your computer. I frequently run 2 OS's at the same time in virtualbox, many tabs open in firefox and opera, watch tv, bittorrent, and other misc. things all at the same time. The extra memory available in 64bit comes in handy. (I have 6gb) But if you are just a casual user, then it really won't matter much.

---

### Post by misterbk on 2010-04-11
Clarify a few things...

The RAM limit is **4 GB** in a 32-bit OS.

Unfortunately, that limit applies to all addressable RAM elements in the system, which includes things that are not really considered "your RAM".

So the practical limit is more like 3.5 to 3.7, sometimes 3.8, sometimes 3.4, depending entirely on what is in your system.  Bios counts, video RAM counts in some non-obvious way, maybe other things too.

Sometimes there is a secondary limit.  The 4GB (practically limited to 3.6-ish) applies to the RAM the operating system has available for programs.  There is a secondary limit for each individual program.  Example: In 32-bit Windows XP and Vista (probably 7 also), the system can see 3.6GB of RAM, but each process cannot claim more than 2GB.

On Linux this is a bit complicated.  [There's a detailed thingy here.]("http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2007/03/dude-wheres-my-4-gigabytes-of-ram.html")  Short version: 32-bit Linux on modern kernels can break the 4GB boundary using a processor technology called PAE or Physical Address Extensions.  This comes at a CPU hit because it's using double lookups.  The CPU hit could be far more than simply the double lookups, because the CPU is designed to be very intelligent about pre-fetching and remembering RAM contents, especially for branch prediction, and PAE could easily play havoc with that if Intel didn't fully polish the technology.  The CPU hit could come into effect all the time, or maybe only when you have more than 4GB of RAM, or maybe only when you are using more than 4GB of RAM.  Basically whenever Linux uses PAE for RAM lookups.

I don't know if AMD processors have PAE.  If they don't, you will experience the RAM limit, but probably faster programs on 32-bit.

Whether 64-bit is faster than 32-bit in general depends entirely on what you are doing in what program on what CPU.  It'll change up when any of those variables is different.  For me, I can't live without 64-bit because I frequently use more than 6GB at once in my apps.  Nobody's ever going to break the 2GB limit in Firefox or Open Office though.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2010-04-11
If you have 2+ gigs of RAM and are capable of running 64 bit, my opinion is to run 64 bit.

also, if you use 16 Gigs of RAM, get some your apps to start and run in RAM instead of the hard drive. The machine will fly if you do that.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-04-11
> **misterbk said:**
> I don't know if AMD processors have PAE.  If they don't, you will experience the RAM limit, but probably faster programs on 32-bit.

AMD doe PAE. PAE was introduced for Intel with the Pentuim Pros, and AFAIK it appeared with the Athlons for AMD.  

> **misterbk said:**
> Whether 64-bit is faster than 32-bit in general depends entirely on what you are doing in what program on what CPU.  It'll change up when any of those variables is different.  For me, I can't live without 64-bit because I frequently use more than 6GB at once in my apps.  Nobody's ever going to break the 2GB limit in Firefox or Open Office though.

From what I've seen, 64bit is faster all over than 32bit, even at 2GB-

[http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks](http://www.tuxradar.com/content/ubuntu-904-32-bit-vs-64-bit-benchmarks)

For a lot of things, its only 5-10% faster, you really need to do things like video/audio encoding to get a huge difference. 

Still even 5-10% is nothing to scoff at- people pay a lot of money for 5-10% faster with hardware.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-04-11
Thanx to Carlee, we have an awesome app that will get 64bit Flash working well with little effort.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1414595](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1414595)

---

### Post by filip007 on 2010-04-11
WinterRain Try optimize your work load, one thing at the time, do one one think good than another than another, when you're done you're done, then you can watch TV on TV.

Opera is big memory drain so don't use it, it will fill all you RAM and crash at the end what's the point in that.


[[IMG]http://img693.imageshack.us/img693/2641/ramuse.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img693.imageshack.us/i/ramuse.jpg/)
I really tried to fill all my RAM and looks like Ubuntu is fighting back and moving to swap and running like nothing happened  :guitar:

If i done the same thing on Windows the system it self will be completely unusable specially over background services like antivirus.

---

### Post by bananashake on 2010-04-11
This is banashake with a heartfelt THANK YOU to all of you.
I am not running a dual OS machine.  My Ubuntu machine is Ubuntu 9.10 only.  I have been using Microsoft stuff for longer than I can remember, like since Win 3.1, and have been wanting to learn a Linux distro for a long time.  So I'm a newbe in your world, loving what I have seen so far, except for not having drivers for my printer and scanner.  Believe me I have looked ALL OVER and there aint any.  But I still have my WinXP machine for that.

For the time being I will stay with the 32 bit version and will probably add some more ram, even though it's running pretty darn fast, boots up in 20 seconds flat and no delays at all with any apps.

Once again many thanks to all of you and I'm sure you will be seeing me again as I work my way through the Ubuntu learning curve.
bananashake

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-04-11
> **filip007 said:**
> WinterRain Try optimize your work load, one thing at the time, do one one think good than another than another, when you're done you're done, then you can watch TV on TV.

Opera is big memory drain so don't use it, it will fill all you RAM and crash at the end what's the point in that.


With all due respect, why are you giving me advice I don't need? I have no problems running all those applications at once on 2 big lcd's, *and* my computer can handle it.
> **bananashake said:**
> 

Once again many thanks to all of you and I'm sure you will be seeing me again as I work my way through the Ubuntu learning curve.
bananashake
You should mark this thread as "solved". Glad to hear you made up your mind, and above all, enjoy it.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-04-11
> **bananashake said:**
> For the time being I will stay with the 32 bit version and will probably add some more ram, even though it's running pretty darn fast, boots up in 20 seconds flat and no delays at all with any apps.

Adding more RAM only helps if you are already using all your avaible RAM (check your RAM useage with htop, or system monitor). 

If, and this is pretty typical, you have 2GB and even with a browser/media player/office software/archiving software and  some other random stuff runningand you are only using 1-1.5GB of RAM, more RAM will do nothing but make your bank account lower. ;)

---

### Post by shaka_zulu on 2010-04-11
> **cascade9 said:**
> Adding more RAM only helps if you are already using all your avaible RAM (check your RAM useage with htop, or system monitor). 

If, and this is pretty typical, you have 2GB and even with a browser/media player/office software/archiving software and  some other random stuff runningand you are only using 1-1.5GB of RAM, more RAM will do nothing but make your bank account lower. ;)

This is true since i didn't catch my RAM using more than 1GB and i have 4GB. Still, if you have 64bit processor use 64bit system. Why would somebody put a foot in a smaller shoe if you know what i mean?! Personally i am using 64bit Kubuntu for a last 2 years and i am claiming that it works just perfect as 32bit version plus today you have for the 99% of software 64bit version. 64bit a more agile and if you ask me a bit faster but that might be personal feeling too.

---

### Post by misterbk on 2010-04-12
> **shaka_zulu said:**
> This is true since i didn't catch my RAM using more than 1GB and i have 4GB. Still, if you have 64bit processor use 64bit system. Why would somebody put a foot in a smaller shoe if you know what i mean?! Personally i am using 64bit Kubuntu for a last 2 years and i am claiming that it works just perfect as 32bit version plus today you have for the 99% of software 64bit version. 64bit a more agile and if you ask me a bit faster but that might be personal feeling too.

Most people nowadays simply have far more computer sitting on their desk than they know what to do with.  I find myself analyzing power bill instead of performance for most of my clients.

Things I do that use the capabilities of a 64-bit system:
- 3D rendering, heavy production scenes with more than 4 rigged, animated characters or hair systems.
- Symbolic math analysis of large data sets, like recently I was concepting out a program for Fourier audio analysis in Mathematica.  Mathematica simply isn't very RAM efficient in some situations, really no reason it had to grow to 7GB RAM usage, but it did.
- Camera solving in high-rez footage (3840x2160 video)
- Slight productivity boost in video editing and compositing, where the programs can access more RAM


Average Joe Photoshop, spreadsheets and games user will never break the boundaries.  (Well maybe games.)

I mostly just want everybody to switch to 64 because it would be better for the whole industry from Intel to consumers if everybody left 32-bit in the dust.  App developers could justify a 64-bit migration, hardware vendors could focus on 64-bit drivers instead of supporting both, and eventually CPU vendors could release processors that use the entire chip instead of having to devote a bunch of surface area to legacy x86 instructions.

Problem is some OEMs (HP is a big one) treat it like an "advanced enterprise" feature instead of a "New Technology feature".  They're just taking advantage of lack of public understanding for business reasons.  They refuse to install 64 on a machine that's capable of it, even though they sell it with 4GB of RAM and it doesn't cost anything different, and try to upsell you on a model that's double the price if you complain.

---

