---
title: "9.10 and workspace problem"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by justcruising on 2009-11-06
Hey i have just started to play with 9.10 and i like it a lot. the issue that i have though is i cant change workspaces. My next problem is i cant right click on the desktop how do i fix this?

Lastly i want to have a different wallpaper on all 3 workspaces, what is the best way to set this up, i have played with Compiz a little but to no success.

---

### Post by justcruising on 2009-11-08
bump anyone

---

### Post by nathanernest on 2009-11-08
Why can't you change workspaces? What happens when you click the windows in the bottom right corner?

Wallpaper I do not know off my head, somebody will though :-)

---

### Post by AmpersUK on 2010-01-17
> **nathanernest said:**
> Why can't you change workspaces? What happens when you click the windows in the bottom right corner?

I am having the same problem with 9.10.

When I first installed it to a new hard drive, it worked and I named all the workspaces OK.

Then all of a sudden the names disappeared and then I right clicked on preferences I got a much smaller box without the facilities to add or change names.

I can't remember the file name, but I looked at the file in the file system and the original names are still all listed there.

This is strange and I wonder if anyone else has had the problem.

It might have occured after I changed perameters in Compiz or loaded VirtualBox, but I am not too sure.

Ampers

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2010-01-17
Different wallpaper on each workspace is easy in KDE but difficult in gnome. It can be done but only via a bit of a hack. Basically you set different wallpaper on each workspace in compiz. But as nautilus `papers over' the compiz wallpaper with its own when it draws the desktop, to see your compiz wallpaper you also have to tell nautilus not to draw the desktop. The problem is when you do this, you lose the whole desktop. Nautilus basically stops treating the desktop as a folder, and so you won't see any icons showing up on it, can't drag and drop to it, and so on. The question is, is it worth this loss of functionality just to have different wallpaper? 

Some people don't like icons on the desktop anyway and think this is fine. Other like myself think it isn't worth the hassle for such a minor cosmetic effect.

---

