---
title: "10.10 - ferushturayshown!"
date: 2011-02-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tsycho17 on 2011-02-13
If you can understand the title, you know how I´m feeling. <:[

I´m probably askin for a lot here, but I am just tired of all the searching and experimenting and ... various broken objects within my room. Call me lazy I guess...

Problem #1 : My cursor seems to be IHNVIIZSHABOWL! (invisible)
This also pertains to another problem, my ... screen pretty much.
Whenever I turn on/restart my computer, as soon as the Ubuntu loading screen appears, my screen is tinted a harsh green and shifted to the right. Although, in this state my cursor is very visible. Upon randomly applying multiple screen resolutions I have come to a ... Semi-conclusion. First I apply the smallest resolution (640x480) which indeed makes everything cramped, yet still a vibrant green tint, along with a visible cursor. Then I immediately apply the highest resolution (1024x678 ) This results to a very blurry, but not green screen. Next, I turn my monitor off and on, and I am pleased by a clear, non-cramped-and-green screen! ... no cursor though. I manage to click around by pressing Ctrl abuncha times which indicates the cursors position. Somehow, I only come across ´cursor/screen' guides that are outdated. :[ 

Problem #2 : Inconsistent default settings
this is a bit minor, yet still irritating. Main settings I set to default do not stay that way after shutdown/restart. Examples: screen resolution / mouse settings / keyboard ...stuff (Itz annoying pressing apostrophe twice cuz I keep forgetting to do so and I end up typing like a spanglish retard) I might be able to figure this out myself, seems pretty simple ... ish.

Problem #3 : OHWNURSHIP and PURMISHHHHHOWUN (ownership and permission)
I have done a lotta stuff, it seemed that I know what I was doing. Imma be doin all the terminal stuff, sudo commands, blah blah root, and blah blah HOW AM I NOT THE OWNURRRR!
I tried to make myself the owner, so I won´t have to be burdened by giving myself my own permission to my own computer that I own... which is MYYYYYYNE! 

[Following paragraph is an unnecessary story of a big mistake, please ignore or tell me what I did wrong.]
I´m not sure what happened or completely remembered what I did, but what pretty much happened was I tried to use sudo to like... make my account the root account. I remember using commands such as ´chown´ and I believe that I tried to make me the owner of ´/´ or ´/root´ Then a buncha errors popped up saying I don´t have permission. Afterwords, any and all sudo command resulted in some message like ¨sudo is not set to root¨ So I go and shut the computer down thinkin I could just do a system restore, but I didn´t make a restore point :[ 
So I started over completely because I didn´t even have permission to sign on!
[/unnecessary story]

But that failed, and I´m a bit scared to do more of that sudo/root/chown stuff.
...Well not really, I have started completely over after all. I didn´t loose much cuz I got whuteva I want on abuncha flash drives. :]

If you have read this far, then I express significant appreciation. Takes a lotta kindness to help people behind walls of text. The thing is, I don´t want help. I would rather be directed toward the related information that is the unfindable child born of Carmen SanDiego and Waldo. I am still persistent in finding what I want, but surely some of you out there already know this stuff, and know the precise keywords to enter in a search-bar. Or better yet, a link to a guide that would inform me solutions. After then, I may contribute a guide here to prevent other n00bs from frustration, unless it is already made. :/

---

### Post by Tsycho17 on 2011-02-14
Maybe I should look up this stuff myself instead of wasting time by waiting. I didn't expect help here anyway, since I've never gotten any before :/ 
[bump]

---

### Post by overdrank on 2011-02-14
> **Tsycho17 said:**
> Maybe I should look up this stuff myself instead of wasting time by waiting. I didn't expect help here anyway, since I've never gotten any before :/ 
[bump]

Hi and welcome, a descriptive title goes a long way. :)
You may find some help with  [_RootSudo_]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo") on the permission issues.
As for the graphics issue, have you installed any drivers for your graphics card?
You my use the command ```
lspci | grep VGA
```
in the terminal, located under applications, accessories.
You can copy and paste that command and it will help identify your graphics.


Edit: I see in your other thread that you have a 
> nVidia Corporation C51 [GeForce 6150 LE] graphics.
Have you tried to install the nvidia drivers?

---

### Post by Tsycho17 on 2011-02-16
Mmmk, well graphically everything is fine now. It was a long hard search, but I found it right under my nose. I have figured out how to make consistent defaults as well.
All I need to do now is figure out how to make myself the 'owner' or 'root.' I might need some direct help for this one.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-02-16
Not everyone here is a native English speaker, and might not understand e.g. "PURMISHHHHHOWUN".

If you chown'ed everything in / , you're looking at a reinstall. 

More info on root: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

[http://news.softpedia.com/news/Grant-Root-Privileges-to-Regular-Users-41633.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/Grant-Root-Privileges-to-Regular-Users-41633.shtml)

---

### Post by Tsycho17 on 2011-02-16
Ehh I'm just being silly, or should I say EXPURRESSIIING myself.

So, I haven't changed my user to become the root or owner... but by using this: 
gksudo "gnome-open %u" ~ applied to a launcher

I was able to change the permissions manually by clicking the drop down menu on each folder in the '/' directory and selecting my user.
I suppose this would suffice, hopefully I don't have to care who the root or owner is any more...

Anyway, I thank both of you for the guidance.

These solutions are quite simple and you could just use common sense really. :/
My real problem is just that I... overcomplicate things... a lot.

---

