---
title: "Ipod Nano"
date: 2005-12-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jaymill on 2005-12-05
I tried doing a search about this, but I just ended up with a bunch of stuff in other languages.

I've got an ipod nano and I plugged it into the USB, and it charges, and its even recognized(very nice), but when I browse around in the files, it seems all my music is under same name I don't get. Is there a program or something I need to use? Can somebody give me a bit of a 'how to ipod on ubuntu?', it would be GREAT! 

Thanks in advance, because you guys have rocked already! :)

---

### Post by Liam on 2005-12-05
You've gotta use iTunes, or something that approximates it, to mess with the music. That's why I'm not getting an iPod, among other reasons (including lack of vorbis support.)

On Linux, it's probably worth trying gtkpod:

$ sudo apt-get install gtkpod

---

### Post by jaymill on 2005-12-05
thanks, but I did notice that in rythmbox, I can play songs from my ipod, can I also add and delete songs in it?

---

### Post by iam10ninjas on 2005-12-05
You could also try amaroK.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2005-12-05
Or you could use Banshee.

But yeah, the iPods use a database of all the music (generated by iTunes, or the iPod manager of your choice) to simplify things - the ipod itself doesn't know how to handle file tags, for example.  Everything it knows about your music comes from the database.  So, unlike some music players, you can't just copy songs onto the iPod and expect them to be playable - you also need to update the db.

---

### Post by jjennings089 on 2005-12-09
I have been using YamiPod [http://www.yamipod.com](http://www.yamipod.com)
gtkpod didn't seem to work with the nano.

---

