---
title: "v22.04 Removed CD/DVD drivers - How to Re-install so Computer Functions"
date: 2024-05-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2024-05-28
Been working for a month to get my computer working with v22.04. Now a new problem after a FRESH Re-Install of v22.04.

They removed the drivers for CD / DVD drives.  Why?
I had to search to find how to install them. Why?
I installed them yesterday.

Today, my CD/DVD drives are not recognized. Why?
Again I have to search for the reason! Advice is to add something to FSTAB file. Why?
Most webpages I find on this issue are old 10-13 years ago.

```

ms7640:~$ mount /cdrom
mount: /cdrom: can't find in /etc/fstab.
stephen@ms7640:~$ sudoedit fstab
sudoedit: fstab: editing files in a writable directory is not permitted

```

So, can someone direct me to what is relevant and lasting solution. 
Can't use Brasero, etc. Unbelievable !!!

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2024-05-28
No, they didn't remove a thing. When I put a CD or DVD into my drive it gets mounted automatically and my file manager opens showing its contents. This also goes for Audio CDs (opens my CD-ripper), Video DVDs (opens vlc) or empty writeable CD or DVD discs (opens xfburn). Now, admittedly I'm not using Ubuntu Studio but Xubuntu, but that should just be a difference in UI, not in operating principle, although Studio AFAIK can use a slightly different kernel with some real time capabilities patched in.

'mount /cdrom' is obviously not right. For one thing you need elevated privileges ('sudo') for 'mount' to work and it's /dev/cdrom or something like /dev/sr0. Also, the 'mount' command needs to be told where to mount something, otherwise it expects to find that place in the file /etc/fstab.
So it should be something like
```

sudo mount -t iso9660 /dev/cdrom /the/directory/where/you/want/to/have/the/content/to/be

```
or you could use udisksctl
```

udisksctl mount -b /dev/cdrom

```
which would mount the disk in a directory under /media/YourUserName/.

And the 'sudoedit' command you give breaks for a very similar reason. You didn't give the path, just 'sudoedit fstab' which means "edit ./fstab", which is problematic for two reasons: a) that file doesn't exist and b) you wouldn't need elevated privileges to create and edit it.

And Brasero or similar software don't depend on the ability to mount the disc at all, since an empty disc - which is what you need for them to work - can't be mounted. They should just recognize the empty disc in the drive and proceed to fill it.

I would take a close look at either the journal ('journalctl -b 0') or the syslog ('less /var/log/syslog') or the kernel message buffer ('sudo dmesg'), searching specifically for messages regarding 'sr[012345]' or '9660' (ISO norm for cdrom file systems) or 'UDF' (universal disc format).

Holger

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2024-05-28
Had to install (because apparently its not included in v22.04) "ubuntu-restricted-extras", which also installs "ubuntu-restricted-addons",
also Previously installed and ran;

```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure libdvd-pkg

```

It then worked yesterday. Today - Not Working, does not show up in Disks or Dolphin. Can't mount.

Followed advices here;
[dvd-wont-play-on-ubuntu-22-04]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/1424209/dvd-wont-play-on-ubuntu-22-04-01-lts")
and;
[itsfoss.com/play-dvd-ubuntu-22.04]("https://itsfoss.com/play-dvd-ubuntu-1310/")
and;
[itsfoss.com/install-media-codecs-ubuntu 22.04]("https://itsfoss.com/install-media-codecs-ubuntu/")
and;
[linuxconfig.org/how-to-mount-cdrom-in-linux]("https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-mount-cdrom-in-linux")

Note: the following;

```

ms7640:~$ sudo mount -t iso9660 /dev/cdrom/ /media/cdrom
mount: /media/cdrom: special device /dev/cdrom/ does not exist.

ms7640:~$ udisksctl mount -b /dev/cdrom
Error looking up object for device /dev/cdrom

```

And CD is in the Tray.

FYI:  found this in SysLog, as  it relates to "sr1";

```

May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.264405] sr 4:0:1:0: [sr1] tag#0 FAILED Result: hostbyte=DID_OK driverbyte=DRIVER_OK cmd_age=0s
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.264418] sr 4:0:1:0: [sr1] tag#0 Sense Key : Illegal Request [current] 
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.264428] sr 4:0:1:0: [sr1] tag#0 Add. Sense: Illegal mode for this track
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.264435] sr 4:0:1:0: [sr1] tag#0 CDB: Read(10) 28 00 00 04 a5 fa 00 00 02 00
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.264439] I/O error, dev sr1, sector 1218536 op 0x0:(READ) flags 0x80700 phys_seg 1 prio class 2
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.283335] sr 4:0:1:0: [sr1] tag#0 FAILED Result: hostbyte=DID_OK driverbyte=DRIVER_OK cmd_age=0s
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.283347] sr 4:0:1:0: [sr1] tag#0 Sense Key : Illegal Request [current] 
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.283355] sr 4:0:1:0: [sr1] tag#0 Add. Sense: Illegal mode for this track
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.283361] sr 4:0:1:0: [sr1] tag#0 CDB: Read(10) 28 00 00 04 a5 fa 00 00 02 00
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.283364] I/O error, dev sr1, sector 1218536 op 0x0:(READ) flags 0x0 phys_seg 1 prio class 2
May 27 15:14:12 ms7640 kernel: [    7.283376] Buffer I/O error on dev sr1, logical block 152317, async page read

```

No sense to me!  Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2024-05-28
'/dev/cdrom' normally is a symbolic link to /dev/sr0. If you don't have /dev/sr0 then no symlink will be created. Your syslog entries makes it seem like you have /dev/sr1. But those errors look like a bad disk or a failing drive, hopefully the former. I sometimes get similar messages in my syslog when the file manager for some reason tries to access my second CD drive which is actually cd-emu, a drive emulator that can use various low-level disk-image file-types (cue/bin, nrg, mdf/mds, toc/bin ...) and which will produce strange errors when it's accessed without an image file loaded.
Try
```

sudo dmesg|grep '\(sr[0-9]\)\|\(scsi\)'

```
this should give us a better idea what the kernel does or doesn't see as far as CD-Rom / DVD drives are concerned.

Holger

---

### Post by scdbackup on 2024-05-29
Hi,

the /dev/cdrom link and the /cdrom mount point are rather ancient file
objects from the time of kernel addresses like /dev/hdc or /dev/scd0.
Since at least a decade, the CD, DVD, or BD devices are named /dev/sr0,
/dev/sr1, and so on. /dev/cdrom and /dev/dvdrom might exist as symbolic
links to the /dev/sr* files.

I personally have my mount points under /mnt, created like
```

sudo mkdir /mnt/iso /mnt/iso2 /mnt/iso3

```
I have more than one drive and sometimes want to mount more than one
of them. Automounters are disabled here, because i am developer of burn
software which suffers a lot from their auto-groping.
Mounting is then done by e.g.
```

sudo mount /dev/sr0 /mnt/iso
sudo mount /dev/sr1 /mnt/iso2

```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

As for your system log, i would blame it on the Linux-CD-TAO-Readahead-Bug,
a problem as old as its name is long. The failed SCSI command
```

28 00 00 04 a5 fa 00 00 02 00

```
tried to read 4096 bytes from block 0x4a5fa = 304634 decimal. That's
near the end of CD capacity and would be the normal behavior of libblkid
when it tries to identify the content of storage devices on behalf of
systemd. The time stamp "7.2..." indicates that this happened early in
the system's uptime. So i would expect that a TAO CD was in the drive sr1
when the system was booted.

The old TAO CD bug has its roots in an ambiguous prescription in SCSI
specs and the decision of drive firmware programmers to report the two
TAO Run-out blocks as part of the medium capacity. These blocks contain
no payload data and are thus not readable by the normal READ(10) command.
Linux takes this overstated capacity as reason to try reading ahead over
the end of the payload data. The bug is that it does not expect the
falure of the last two blocks and throws error instead of trying to read
two blocks less.
This bug does only happen with recordable CDs which were written by
write type Track-At-Once, aka TAO. The other mode Disk-At-Once (DAO) does
not create unreadable written blocks. 

Burn programs usually add 300 KiB of padding data, to push the Run-out
blocks away from the end of the readable data. But libblkid is interested
in the last two payload blocks for identifying partition tables and
filesystems.

Have a nice day :)

Thomas

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2024-05-31
> **Holger_Gehrke said:**
> '/dev/cdrom' normally is a symbolic link to /dev/sr0. 
Try
```

sudo dmesg|grep '\(sr[0-9]\)\|\(scsi\)'

```
this should give us a better idea what the kernel does or doesn't see as far as CD-Rom / DVD drives are concerned.
Holger

Thanks, I had forgotten! Here is the output;

```

sudo dmesg|grep '\(sr[0-9]\)\|\(scsi\)'

[    1.826331] scsi host0: pata_atiixp
[    1.826692] scsi host1: pata_atiixp
[    1.829468] scsi host2: ahci
[    1.830300] scsi host3: ahci
[    1.830783] scsi host4: ahci
[    1.831890] scsi host5: ahci
[    2.321815] scsi 3:0:0:0: Direct-Access     ATA      WD Blue SA510 2. 8100 PQ: 0 ANSI: 5
[    2.322989] sd 3:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg0 type 0

ms7640:~$ sudo mount /dev/sr0 /mnt/sr0
mount: /mnt/sr0: mount point does not exist.
ms7640:~$ sudo mount /dev/sr1 /mnt/sr1
mount: /mnt/sr1: mount point does not exist.

```

Note: I have a CD in the drive, and doesn't show up in Dolphin or Disks.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2024-05-31
That's not good. For comparison's sake here's what I see on my machine:
```

[    2.624521] scsi host0: ahci
[    2.625934] scsi host1: ahci
[    3.115690] scsi 0:0:0:0: Direct-Access     ATA      CT1000BX500SSD1  056  PQ: 0 ANSI: 5                    # SATA SSD
[    3.116728] sd 0:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg0 type 0
[    3.121086] scsi 1:0:0:0: CD-ROM            PLDS     DVD-RW DA8AESH   XL61 PQ: 0 ANSI: 5                  # real DVD-drive
[    3.223038] sr 1:0:0:0: [sr0] scsi3-mmc drive: 24x/24x writer dvd-ram cd/rw xa/form2 cdda tray
[    3.261016] sr 1:0:0:0: Attached scsi CD-ROM sr0
[    3.261296] sr 1:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg1 type 5
[    3.775566] scsi host2: uas
[    3.777350] scsi 2:0:0:0: Direct-Access     Seagate  BUP Slim BK      0304 PQ: 0 ANSI: 6                       # external USB-HD
[    3.778122] sd 2:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg2 type 0
[    4.848824] scsi host3: vhba
[   41.306714] scsi 3:0:0:0: CD-ROM            CDEmu    CD-ROM           1.0  PQ: 0 ANSI: 0                        # emulated DVD-drive
[   41.317013] sr 3:0:0:0: [sr1] scsi3-mmc drive: 48x/48x writer dvd-ram cd/rw xa/form2 cdda tray         
[   41.325739] sr 3:0:0:0: Attached scsi CD-ROM sr1
[   41.331071] sr 3:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg3 type 5

```
On my system every connected storage device is accessed as if it was some kind of SCSI device (which they aren't as far as the hardware is concerned; as I understand it the kernel treats it all as if it was SCSI and only at the last stage of giving commands to the devices handles them separately ...). The only thing your output shows is a WD Blue SA510 which should be a SSD. Even an empty cd-drive - as long as it works and is  connected - should show up (there was no disk in my DVD drive and it still showed up). That yours doesn't is a very bad sign.

The errors from mount are just complaints because you've given it a directory to mount into that doesn't exist. The mount point must be an existing directory; so to make sure it does exist, you could do something like:
```

sudo mkdir /mnt/cdrom
sudo mount /dev/sr0 /mnt/cdrom

```
or you could just use /mnt/ itself as the mount point (/mnt is really meant for exactly this kind of thing - a directory for temporarily mounting something into).
The general format of the mount-command is:
mount <options> <device-file> <directory to mount into>

Holger

---

### Post by scdbackup on 2024-06-01
Hi,

Holger_Gehrke wrote:
> Even an empty cd-drive - as long as it works and is connected -
> should show up

That's true. The kernel creates a /dev/sr* device file for all recognized
optical drives.  So the easiest way to get an overview is:
```

ls -l /dev/sr*

```
A bit more specialized on optical drives is this xorriso run:
```

xorriso -devices

```
I guess you'd have to install xorriso first. It has few dependencies.
Output should be something like
```

0  -dev '/dev/sr0' rwrw-- :  'HL-DT-ST' 'BDDVDRW GGC-H20L'
1  -dev '/dev/sr1' rwrw-- :  'HL-DT-ST' 'DVDRAM GH24NSC0'
2  -dev '/dev/sr2' rwrw-- :  'ASUS    ' 'BW-16D1HT'

```

If drives are found, you may inquire each of them for what they believe
to have loaded as medium (be patient, drives need their time to inspect
media):
```

xorriso -outdev /dev/sr0 -toc

```
With a readable CD-RW inside i get:
```

Drive current: -outdev '/dev/sr0'
Drive access : exclusive:unrestricted
Drive type   : vendor 'HL-DT-ST' product 'BDDVDRW GGC-H20L' revision '1.03'
Drive id     : 'K5C88LJ1616 '
Media current: CD-RW
Media product: 97m26s65f/79m59s74f , CMC Magnetics Corporation
Media status : is written , is closed
Media blocks : 64212 readable , 0 writable , 359847 overall
TOC layout   : Idx ,  sbsector ,       Size , Volume Id
ISO session  :   1 ,         0 ,     64046s , ISOIMAGE
Media summary: 1 session, 64212 data blocks,  125m data,     0 free

```

Whatever answers you get now, back on may 27 there was a /dev/sr1 reported
in the system log. Normally there should have been a /dev/sr0 too.

How many optical drives are in the computer or attached to it via USB ?
Do they all show signs of electrical life ? (Do they blink and clonk
when the system starts or when a medium gets loaded ? Does their drive
tray have a motor which can still eject the tray when the button isi
pressed ?)

Have a nice day :)

Thomas

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2024-06-02
```

ms7640:~$ ls -l /dev/sr*
ls: cannot access '/dev/sr*': No such file or directory

ms7640:~$ xorriso -devices
xorriso 1.5.4 : RockRidge filesystem manipulator, libburnia project.

Beginning to scan for devices ...
xorriso : SORRY : No drives found
xorriso : NOTE : Tolerated problem event of severity 'SORRY'
xorriso : NOTE : -return_with SORRY 32 triggered by problem severity SORRY

```

Weird ... Yes 2 CD/DVD Burners installed in upper part of Big Tower Case, and turned ON via Kingwin 6 Drive Selector. 
Both drives worked good in previous v20.04.

---

### Post by bobunderwood99 on 2024-06-02
Try bypassing the Kingston switch (connect the optical drives directly to the motherboard).

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2024-06-03
> **bobunderwood99 said:**
> Try bypassing the Kingston switch (connect the optical drives directly to the motherboard).

Saw your post while I am posting this comment. Suspecting it might be the Kingwin drive selector, I left both CD/DVD drives switched ON prior to Shutdown. This morning I remembered, via the lights on, that I did so. Looked in Dolphin and lo and behold it showed Hiren's CD and contents. Right click select 'Eject' ... the CD ejected and the Drive disappeared. 

So it is functioning correctly! ! ! Boy do I feel like an idiot.  Sorry for wasting your valuable time.
Note: I did have to do the install. Maybe because during install, the CD/DVD drives were not connected.

But THANKS! for helping out the little guys.

Peace

---

### Post by scdbackup on 2024-06-04
Hi,

at least i learned to know a new reason for optical drives not to work.

Have a nice day :)

Thomas

---

