---
title: "11.10 System freeze"
date: 2012-02-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mywinningsmile on 2012-02-17
Hi there

I'm a new Ubuntu user - happy so far - but recently I have been experiencing a spate of system freezes. Although the monitor continues to work and music (when it's on, not in all cases) blares out, the controls are totally unhelpful, and I have to shut down by holding down the power button.
I'm running an Aspire 5755G
Note that in the last few weeks I've tried to up my battery by using this:

[http://www.ivegotavirus.com/blog/2011/11/06/how-to-get-optimus-working-on-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric/](http://www.ivegotavirus.com/blog/2011/11/06/how-to-get-optimus-working-on-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric/)
to boost my battery (I have NVIDIA). I'm not sure if this preceded the situation entirely, but I have a hunch it did.

I've tried to attach my dmesg.txt(63k), syslog.txt(137k) and xorg.txt(31k) but they all exceed the 19.5k limit.  So I've compressed them, including splitting the mammoth syslog.

Since I began writing this message it happened again - meaning two forced shutdowns within ten minutes - so I am getting pretty worried!

Oh - also of note - Libre office has always been running when this has occurred. Possibly coincidence - I use it a lot.

Thanks
Alex

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-02-17
The kernel parameter 

pcie_aspm=force

is known to make certain systems instable, thats why the feature has been removed from the kernel. Maybe it is the reason for your freezes.

---

### Post by mywinningsmile on 2012-02-17
Thanks. So does this mean I should reverse the nvidia fix?  

If so, is it as simple as editing "pcie_aspm=force" out of the grub config file - I placed it in as part of the fix.

Or are there other steps I would need to take?

I'd be sorry to lose the little extra battery life this is giving me - but if it is the problem, then stability is worth more to me.

Thanks
Alex

---

