---
title: "18.04 doesn't display thumbnails when Canon camera plugged in"
date: 2019-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bartender on 2019-02-14
Good morning!
Recently moved from 16.04 to 18.04.  

The problem is when I plug in our Canon DSLR.  I'm in the habit of viewing the thumbnails directly from the Home folder rather than using Shotwell or some other application.  In 16.04 I'd get little thumbnails that showed the picture.

In 18.04 all I get is a gray box and the .jpg file number.  If I double-click on the gray thumbnail the picture comes up just like it should.  

I've never really liked Shotwell, but opened it just to see what would happen.  In Shotwell the pictures do appear in the thumbnails.  I'd been wondering if maybe the USB cable was damaged but that doesn't seem likely since I got images in Shotwell.

Anyone have any thoughts?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2019-02-14
I think the default setting in the file manager, which I assume in your case will be nautilus, is to display thumbnails in local volumes only, so probably your Canon camera is not seen as a local volume.

Try changing that setting in nautilus preferences, wherever  they are, and you can probably go back to the views that you want.

I haven't used nautilus for many years so I am not sure how you find nautilus preferences now, but it will probably be either an icon in nautilus itself or maybe a text file file somewhere in the user's home.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2019-02-14
I haven't messed around with Nautilus much at all, especially in the last 5 years or longer.  I don't recall how to get into it.
I'll have to do some googling.

Edit: Bug #1796711 "Nautilus not generating image thumbnails" sounds awfully close to what I'm experiencing.

The google hits I'm seeing all seem to refer to earlier versions of Ubuntu.  Instructions say: "Click Files in the top bar, pick Preferences and select the Behavior tab."

There's nothing like that in my top bar.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2019-02-16
I'm getting old and stupid.

I run two monitors.  I was opening Nautilus on the secondary monitor, then poking at the Nautilus top bar for the elusive "Files" icon that all the guides mentioned.
The "Files" icon was in the top bar on the primary monitor.  I finally right-clicked on that just because I'd tried everything else.

Wow it took two days but I finally found it

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2019-02-17
Great news! 

Please mark as SOLVED from the Thread Tools menu up-top if this is now solved to your satisfaction. It is a great help to users searching the forum.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2019-02-19
Spoke too soon.  

Right-click on the "Files" icon on the primary monitor, go into "Preferences", then "Search & Preview", then click "All files" under the "Thumbnails" section.  Plug camera in, still no thumbnails.  Shotwell still works as before; it gives a thumbnail preview.  Dangit

---

### Post by Bartender on 2019-02-24
I tried hooking up a Seagate 5TB external drive.  Very relieved to find that thumbnails do work when 18.04 looks at the external.

That makes me think there's something not quite right with whatever software is involved when the machine sees the Canon camera?  An icon pops up on the Desktop when the Canon is plugged in.  The label and icon looks the same as with 16.04 AFAICT.

---

