---
title: "10.04 Final Release TIme?"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by trentscott on 2010-04-29
Does anyone know what time 10.04 final will release today?  Is there somewhere we can get it now?

---

### Post by bumanie on 2010-04-29
As I keep writing, seemingly infinitum on here, there seems to have been a problem with lucid's final release and it is likely delayed. Look [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463554&page=30") at 23meg's comments for more info. I can only assume 23meg is correct in what he/she is saying. There is an issue with it not allowing dual boot systems to run properly, ie it borks windows and stops it loading. I have updated beta 1 running and had some vista boot issues, but sorted it out without much problem.

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-04-29
It will be here when it gets here.

Tim

---

### Post by CrimsonBizarre on 2010-04-29
I am interested in knowing whether Ubuntu 10.04 will be before 1st of May, as my ISP has a cap on the limit of downloading we can use on certain months, and as the file size of the ISO is rather large, it would be difficult to download it and stay within the cap during May.

---

### Post by sgage on 2010-04-29
It does not "bork Windows and keep it from running". It just doesn't show Windows (or other OS'es, including other Linux installs) in the grub menu. A simple update-grub fixes it, but the feeling is that this is a turn-off for newbies. It has already been fixed, the iso's have been "respun", and I think the feeling is that it will be out later today.

---

### Post by ju2wheels on 2010-04-29
Does anyone know if the Xorg leak has been corrected or if they are reverting to an older version and release a patch after? I know there was a fix in testing but just wanted to find out if it was officially being pushed out in the release or not.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2010-04-29
Why rush to be the first chap(ess) on the block ? I will certainly await the next issue of Linux Format which could well have a live CD in it for 10.04 with the bugs removed and no hassle with a large download. I got 8.04 this way and have not worried about the intermediate updates thus saving even more hassle!

Good luck to all.

colintivy :)  :)

---

### Post by CrimsonBizarre on 2010-04-29
Sorry for being a noob, but if I download the RC now, and then update when the final build is released, will that be the same as running the final build?

And does the 'not letting other OSs run in GRUB' problem exist in the RC?

---

### Post by maddg3241 on 2010-04-29
> **ratcheer said:**
> It will be here when it gets here.
 
Tim
 
that is so true

---

### Post by whiskeytango73 on 2010-04-29
I've used it with XP for almost a week now, and the only thing that was abnormal was that Windows "strongly recommended" a disk check when I booted into it. Other than that, (which was MINOR) I have had not a single issue with my 32bit 10.4 beta. wireless, Gpu drivers were "automatic", running GREAT.

---

### Post by chui101 on 2010-04-29
> **CrimsonBizarre said:**
> Sorry for being a noob, but if I download the RC now, and then update when the final build is released, will that be the same as running the final build?

And does the 'not letting other OSs run in GRUB' problem exist in the RC?

Yes, you can just run the update manager to upgrade from the RC to the final. And as bumanie alluded to earlier, the "No GRUB entry for other operating systems" bug may be what's holding up the release. 

Personally, I think it should be pushed back to a 10.05 LTS release, as there are a few quirks that still need to be sorted, but I'm mostly happy with the RC.

---

### Post by CrimsonBizarre on 2010-04-29
> **chui101 said:**
> Yes, you can just run the update manager to upgrade from the RC to the final. And as bumanie alluded to earlier, the "No GRUB entry for other operating systems" bug may be what's holding up the release. 

Personally, I think it should be pushed back to a 10.05 LTS release, as there are a few quirks that still need to be sorted, but I'm mostly happy with the RC.

So, if I install the RC now, I'll have to wait until the update to run Windows again?

---

### Post by ppb1701 on 2010-04-29
> **CrimsonBizarre said:**
> Sorry for being a noob, but if I download the RC now, and then update when the final build is released, will that be the same as running the final build?

And does the 'not letting other OSs run in GRUB' problem exist in the RC?

effectively yes, and it will probably download faster since there wont be a mad rush for the rc version.  I don't know if the bug exists on the rc image or not though.  I upgraded from karmic about a month or so ago and don't recall grub missing my other OSes listings.

---

### Post by tareksobh on 2010-04-29
> **ratcheer said:**
> It will be here when it gets here.

Tim

I agree Tim, but it would be nice if we (Ubuntu users) could have an idea about what's going on and not just kept in the dark.

---

### Post by ppb1701 on 2010-04-29
> **CrimsonBizarre said:**
> So, if I install the RC now, I'll have to wait until the update to run Windows again?

no, one command to update grub will fix it if it does the bug like has held up final.  then you could boot to either.  Just not as clean as it doing it from the install as intended.

---

### Post by ttshivers on 2010-04-29
I'll probally do a clean install when I upgrade to Lucid Lynx.

---

### Post by merlinpr on 2010-04-29
I suspected the delays to be caused by last minute issues which is understandable. I'd much rather wait a few hours and get the solid OS I expect Lucid Lynx to be. It's a lot better than others (not naming names lol) who in the rush to get products out the door release buggy OSs and then bombard you with patches. Ubuntu has never missed a release date (that I know off) so we can count on it being out no latter than @ 11:59 PM Today :popcorn:

As for the Grub issue, I've been using Lucid Lynx since the first Beta came out and I've had no issues dual-booting Windows XP. The one issue I noticed was with video every once in a while and it's nothing a reboot didn't fix ; )

---

### Post by merlinpr on 2010-04-29
Wow, I just realized I've been a member since 2007 and never posted before :-k

---

### Post by yunone on 2010-04-29
is this not the final version?

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/)

i am downloading now and its labeled 10.04

---

### Post by Nightstrike2009 on 2010-04-29
Its hard to tell without official download, You could download the 10.04 RC version and update via update manager. A test version should say so on the menu after boot up, but this would require downloading first and burning to disc. 

After experiencing the majorly bug-ridden farce that was 9.10 (in my own opinion, has it left me without internet connection on my 3g modem until i worked out an arcane way to get it working, that shouldn't have been neccessary).

I would rather wait for official download confirmation rather than rush in an I am prepared to wait as long as it takes considering 10.04 is an LTS.

---

### Post by Elie-M on 2010-04-29
it's released! go on and download! use torrent if possible

---

### Post by yunone on 2010-04-29
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/ubuntu-10.04-alternate-i386.iso.torrent](http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/ubuntu-10.04-alternate-i386.iso.torrent)

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent](http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent)

---

### Post by aparigraha on 2010-04-29
[http://torrent.ubuntu.com:6969/](http://torrent.ubuntu.com:6969/)

---

### Post by undoIT on 2010-04-29
Woohoo! Downloading :)

---

### Post by maddg3241 on 2010-04-29
Now It Has Been Realesed (proves it here) [[COLOR=#444444]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1465419[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1465419") Download Here [[COLOR=#444444]http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/[/COLOR]]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/") Or Goto The Site [http://www.ubuntu.com](http://www.ubuntu.com)

---

### Post by Uncle Spellbinder on 2010-04-29
Been running Lucid since Alpha 2. Downloading the final release for a clean, fresh install.

---

### Post by trentscott on 2010-04-29
Yayyyy!!!

---

### Post by Uncle Spellbinder on 2010-04-29
Quick download for so early in the game. 6 minutes, all done and ready to burn to CD.

---

### Post by colintivy on 2010-04-30
Further to my #7 I see from the General Help and Installation/Upgrade forums that it seems more haste and less speed. Lots of fundemental nasties might be experienced with upgrades and live CD clean instals so far. Waiting for the dust to settle seems a great idea.

Some of the forum replies suggest that things that might be expected are no longer there by default and even booting options are "hidden". It looks as though a massive sticky will have to be generated by someone who really knows about the new version for the avoidance of pitfalls by mere mortals!

I live in hopes.

colintivy

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-04-30
Thread closed, it's out!!

---

