---
title: "S.O. PLEEEZE tell me why I can't pre-format DVD+RW"
date: 2009-04-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-04-18
that's it...i'm outta 'o this crummy life...not worth the suffering...

I don't understand it.  No matter what I do I can't seem to pre-format a dvd+w.  These are blank NEW disks, good quality too.

> $ dvd+rw-mediainfo /dev/dvd

INQUIRY:                [ASUS    ][DRW-1608P2      ][1.41]
GET [CURRENT] CONFIGURATION:
 Mounted Media:         1Ah, DVD+RW
 Media ID:              [COLOR="Red"]INFODISC/A10[/COLOR]
 Current Write Speed:   4.0x1385=5540KB/s
 Write Speed #0:        4.0x1385=5540KB/s
 Write Speed #1:        2.4x1385=3324KB/s
 Speed Descriptor#0:    00/2295103 R@4.0x1385=5540KB/s W@4.0x1385=5540KB/s
 Speed Descriptor#1:    00/2295103 R@2.4x1385=3324KB/s W@2.4x1385=3324KB/s
READ DVD STRUCTURE[#0h]:
 Media Book Type:       00h, DVD-ROM book [revision 0]
 Legacy lead-out at:    2295104*2KB=4700372992
READ DISC INFORMATION:
 Disc status:           blank
 Number of Sessions:    1
 State of Last Session: empty
 "Next" Track:          1
 Number of Tracks:      1
READ FORMAT CAPACITIES:
 unformatted:		2295104*2048=4700372992
 26h(0):		2295104*2048=4700372992
READ TRACK INFORMATION[#1]:
 Track State:           blank
 Track Start Address:   0*2KB
 Free Blocks:           2295104*2KB
 Track Size:            2295104*2KB
READ CAPACITY:          0*2048=0

They are 4x Memorex. I just bought these.  I'm still using the InfoDisc/A10 's from my last pack I bought 3 yrs ago--two out of five still write fine and verify. But I need more on hand, so I got another 10-pack. 

I tried to manually pre-format the first disc out of the box with [COLOR="Red"]dvd+rw-format[/COLOR] command:

> [Formatting the BD and DVD+RW media]("http://fy.chalmers.se/~appro/linux/DVD+RW/"). Virgin BD and DVD+RW media needs to be initally formatted prior usage. Once again, only virgin BD and DVD+RW media needs to be formatted. **As of version 5.10 growisofs detects blanks and applies initial formatting procedure automatically. _Otherwise same effect can be achieved by passing the device name, e.g. /dev/scd0, as an argument to dvd+rw-format_.**

> 
[dvd+rw-format:]("http://www.yolinux.com/TUTORIALS/LinuxTutorialCDBurn.html") Format DVD. Also performed by growisofs if needed.
Format a DVD: dvd+rw-format -lead-out /dev/dvd 

> 
$ dvd+rw-format -lead-out /dev/dvd

* BD/DVD±RW/-RAM format utility by <appro@fy.chalmers.se>, version 7.0.
* 4.7GB DVD+RW media detected.
* [COLOR="Red"]formatting 98.2-:-[ CLOSE SESSION failed with SK=5h/ASC=30h/ACQ=10h]: Wrong medium type[/COLOR]

Then I tried k3b.  It uses growisofs, and it appears to be pre-formatting, but throws a failed message at the end, then ejects and loads the dvd, beginning the pre-formatting all over again--for a total of 3 times!!!
At the end of all this the disc still shows up as not formatted!!!

[ATTACH]110229[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]110230[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]110231[/ATTACH]

Then I tried InfraRecorder and Imgburn on windows, different drive, and again failure. (ImgBurn on default settings automatically did a full format, which I didn't want...The subsequent write succeeded (allegedly), but failed verify.  And the disc still shows up empty).

[ATTACH]110232[/ATTACH]

Afterward, I tried another manual format.  Completed sucessfully, but same error:

> user@ubuntu:~$ dvd+rw-format /dev/dvd
* BD/DVD±RW/-RAM format utility by <appro@fy.chalmers.se>, version 7.0.
* 4.7GB DVD+RW media detected.
* [COLOR="Red"]formatting 100.0-:-[ STOP DE-ICING failed with SK=5h/ASC=30h/ACQ=10h]: Wrong medium type[/COLOR]

It can't be the hardware, or OS, or application.  Bad dvd+rw discs?  I had a problem yesterday with dvd-rw, but those were crappy CMC Magnetics, so no wonder.  These are InfoDisc/A10 (Memorex), officially listed as 2nd tier quality stuff.  As I said, I've used them for 3 yrs. If I could just get past the initial format stage, I know they would work.  But I can't pre-format.  I even tried cd/dvd creator in nautilus.  Nothing but error after error after error.  Sh*t.  

Someone please help

Update:

if I try growisofs manually, same thing:

> $ growisofs -Z /dev/dvd -R audio documents videos

...

  2.01% done, estimate finish Sat Apr 18 16:04:16 2009
  4.02% done, estimate finish Sat Apr 18 16:04:41 2009
  6.03% done, estimate finish Sat Apr 18 16:04:49 2009
[COLOR="Red"]/dev/dvd: pre-formatting blank DVD+RW...
/dev/dvd: "Current Write Speed" is 2.5x1352KBps.
:-[ WRITE@LBA=0h failed with SK=5h/ASC=30h/ACQ=10h]: Wrong medium type
:-( media is not formatted or unsupported.
:-( write failed: Wrong medium type[/COLOR]

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-04-18
no ideas anyone??

maybe the post is too long (turns people off--understable)

I just burned another multisession dvd+rw (infodisc A10) and it works just great:

[ATTACH]110259[/ATTACH]

Just can't get past the first step with virgin +rw. 

Maybe the Infodisc/A10 has changed slightly since I last bought it years ago.  (i.e. cheapened).  As I say I tried it on two different drives, in two diff desktops, on diff burning apps, and they fail all round.  they refuse to format, or at least fail to show up as formatted after I do the procedure.

I doubt it's related to bugs in Hardy growisofs and genisoimage, because those mostly concern reading linux-burned dvd's in windows, and besides I can burn 2x memorex dvd-rw (CMC Magnetics).  But I want faster speed, multisession support and better quality stuff.

Looks like I have no choice but spring for some Verbatim 4x dvd+rw, which I know is really good.

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2009-04-18
I found a few links...
[http://forums.opensuse.org/archives/sf-archives/archives-software/323145-format-dvd-rw.html](http://forums.opensuse.org/archives/sf-archives/archives-software/323145-format-dvd-rw.html)
[http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=106928](http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=106928)
(see post #13)

[http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-linux-format-cdrw-dvdrw/](http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-linux-format-cdrw-dvdrw/)

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-04-19
> **Shazaam said:**
> Hope this helps.

no, unfortunately, but thanks for taking the time to reply.

---

