---
title: "12.04 - low screen resolution after monitor is off"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by geezerone on 2012-04-28
Tried out 32bit 12.04 and using default drivers for my Nvidia 6600 (non free give black screen) the resolution should be 1650 but after the power saving kicks in this drops to I guess 1024 or worse. If I go into settings and click displays the OS tries to detect before the display window opens and the resolution then reverts back to what it should be. Anyone else noticed this and if there is a way to fix the display resolution?

TIA

---

### Post by OscarHillerstrom on 2012-05-03
me too...

---

### Post by Logatchi on 2012-05-06
[FONT=Courier New]**me too i have the same problem i can't change the resolution of my ubuntu 800x600 **[/FONT]

---

### Post by Valombre on 2012-05-14
Problem approximately the same, but more randomly for me, sometime when screen go sleep, or due to certain inactivity.
When using wine sometime changing resolution to.
And to regain the good resolution have to do like you, just launch screen settings, it's strange.

- ubuntu 12.04 64, on gnome, installed on Beta2 and updated since.
- My screen is a LG W2240 but detected as a goldstar company ltd 22''
- My card is a integrated intel => 00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
- Pc : thinckcenter MT-M 0844 CTO

I have to test the 12.04 on my main ...

---

### Post by austin7777 on 2012-05-17
bump!

---

### Post by montezumax on 2012-05-22
Yep.  Same issue here using Ubuntu 12.04 64-bit and an ATI Radeon X850XT.

I tried to avoid the issue by disabling the screensaver in the power management settings and making sure the screen never gets locked.  This improves the situation but there are still times when after long inactivty the resolution decreases.  To resolve the issue I just go to the Displays... setting and it immediately returns to the correct resolution.

I haven't seen this reported too widely yet but would love to find a solution.

---

### Post by geezerone on 2012-05-23
I carried out a software update last night (186MB) and forgive me if wrong as didn't have a lot of time to leave it, but the resolution may be fixed following the updates? 

Will check later in the week when I have another chance to work with the box in question and leave it a lot longer to allow the machine to go into saving mode, but suggest a software update to those who may be having this problem to see if it helps?

---

### Post by lisanels47 on 2012-05-23
I see something similar on one of the 20 client computers at the office.  On that computer, it has a old monitor that is "Undetected" when looking at the display setup.  If the monitor is on and not sleeping when I boot the computer, then the resolution is 1024, but if it's sleeping and the screensaver kicks in, when it wakes its 800.  I have to restart X to get it back to normal.

---

### Post by geezerone on 2012-05-26
Spoke too soon. Still the same problem. I find if I switch between another screen for a few mins on a KVM vga switcher and go back the low resolution problem is back.

Is there any fix or a bug logged for this annoyance? Def. staying with 11.04 and Mint 12 too for that matter as this type of error is poor for a LTS release.

---

### Post by skiphod on 2012-06-02
It would be nice to see a fix for this.  KVM switching is made very annoying by the resolution change.

---

### Post by bhaveshnande on 2012-06-02
Similar problem here too.
Does not change the resolution but shows black screen on installing [Recommended] driver :(

---

### Post by vadlamudimohan on 2012-06-02
yes it's big problem for me thanks for amnswers[http://www.sparkinfosys.com/seo_smo_ppc.html]("http://www.sparkinfosys.com/seo_smo_ppc.html")

---

### Post by skiphod on 2012-06-05
It seems that the resizing of the display which occurs when the KVM switches away can be avoided by going to:

Applications|SystemTools|SystemSettings|Brightness and Lock

and selecting "Turn screen off when inactive for" to "Never"

It might be worth trying for the case of resizing during monitor power down periods as well.

---

