---
title: "9.10 Freezing after fresh install on Atom 330 desktop"
date: 2009-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rhettardo on 2009-10-22
I just finished installing 9.10 on a brand new atom 330 based desktop.  The install seems to smoothly with no hickups but about 5 seconds after I login it freezes up on me.  This is my first install on atom based hardware so I am not sure if I am skipping a step or what.  

I tried 9.04 as well but had similar issues, after I updated the system it seemed more stable but still didnt feel right and was not operating as it should.

Any help would be appreciated!

---

### Post by IzRey on 2009-10-29
I am having the same problem. I am running a MSI wind PC with an Intel ATOM 230. I had been running 8.04 with no problems. I did a totally clean install, formatting the hard-drive.
I haven't been able to pinpoint what causes the freezing. It seems to be kind of random. Usually within a few minutes after I start. Any ideas would be great.

---

### Post by girto on 2009-10-29
Are you using Karmic netbook remix?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-10-29
I have an Atom 330/945G desktop as well (Foxconn barebones). I have seen the freezing issue with both Ubuntu 9.10rc and Arch. Downloading the final 9.10 release now to test it. Does disabling Compiz desktop effects solve the problem for you? Ubuntu 9.04 is okay for me.

---

### Post by Johnny19734 on 2009-10-29
LOOKY:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/345662](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/345662)

---

### Post by IzRey on 2009-10-29
> **girto said:**
> Are you using Karmic netbook remix?

I am not. Is there a reason I would need to?

---

### Post by keithrol on 2009-11-01
I'm finding that it is NetManager that is causing the lockups. If I remove my wireless card, and disable the motherboard LAN card, Ubuntu will run fine.  Add back in either and it will lock up a few seconds after the desktop completes loading. Installing Puppy, SUSE, TinyCore, and others is fine- it's just the last several versions of Ubuntu crashes my Foxcon Atom 330 MB.  KR

---

### Post by girto on 2009-11-01
> **IzRey said:**
> I am not. Is there a reason I would need to?

The following bug applies only to Ubuntu Netbook Remix:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/433333](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/433333)

---

### Post by momo123 on 2009-11-10
Ran Ubuntu 9.04 on a MSI Wind PC 2713, Intel Atom N270 just fine. Now after fresh installation (not updated )of 9.10 , got freeze approx. 1 minute after successful boot.
Installation went fine.
Whats going on? :mad:

---

### Post by abcarr on 2009-12-12
Are people still getting this error? I am and cannot figure out why.  I am using the same foxconn atom 330 system talked about above.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-12-13
> **abcarr said:**
> Are people still getting this error? I am and cannot figure out why.  I am using the same foxconn atom 330 system talked about above.

Does disabling Compiz desktop effects solve the problem for you?

---

### Post by abcarr on 2009-12-16
Yes, I had Compiz disabled. I decided to just do a server install at this point without a desktop and wait to try again later.

---

### Post by mjmeyer@ on 2009-12-21
Also trying to build a system with the Foxconn R20-S4 Intel 945GC barebones kit, 2mg memory and 500gb WD drive. 9.10 32bit Locks up after desktop displays. Trying to use wireless - usb at first then pci card. If I disconnect the wireless it seems to not lock up. Went to 9.04 and it works better except that during updates it will stop until the mouse is moved then it continues on? Still trying different configurations.

---

### Post by antiigrav on 2009-12-29
I also have this freezing problem.

Ubuntu 9.10

[Foxcon 45CSX]("http://www.foxconnchannel.com/product/Motherboards/detail_overview.aspx?ID=en-us0000425")

Atom 330 CPU

Locks up when running live cd.

Previously, 8.10 worked fine.

---

### Post by Kaiyusn on 2010-04-19
Try this BIOS as below link on 45CSX.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=153734&d=1271657052](http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=153734&d=1271657052)

---

### Post by ral2108 on 2010-05-18
> **Kaiyusn said:**
> Try this BIOS as below link on 45CSX.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=153734&d=1271657052](http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=153734&d=1271657052)

And what is that bios?

I experienced this several months ago on my foxconn r20-s4 Atom 330, I ended up settling for 8.04 because it was the latest version that did not lock up. I decided to try 10.04 today and it still locks up upon login. Any breakthroughs?

Some people obviously think Compiz is the problem, how would I go about disabling it before startup?

More general question, how do you start ubuntu without starting the desktop?

Thanks

---

### Post by Kaiyusn on 2010-05-24
> **ral2108 said:**
> And what is that bios?

I experienced this several months ago on my foxconn r20-s4 Atom 330, I ended up settling for 8.04 because it was the latest version that did not lock up. I decided to try 10.04 today and it still locks up upon login. Any breakthroughs?

Some people obviously think Compiz is the problem, how would I go about disabling it before startup?

More general question, how do you start ubuntu without starting the desktop?

Thanks

If your mobo is 45CSX or 45CS, just test that BIOS

---

