---
title: "10.04 not auto-mounting network shares"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kosci on 2010-05-04
Hi.
Enviroment: 
-server ubuntu 9.04 with samba
-client fresh ubuntu 10.04

ubuntu is not auto-mounting samba shares. Old 9.04 done it without a problem.
I need to type sudo mount -a to have samba mounted.

fstab:
//192.168.1.101/www    /mokonawww    cifs    auto,iocharset=utf8    0    0

ls -l
drwxrwxrwx  25 root root     0 2010-05-03 17:44 mokonawww

Tested with diffrent parameters.

And another problem also with samba shares, when I edit file from editor (eclipse) after save i got 'file changed dialog'. seems like file is written with some delay ? and timestamp dont agree (its my blind quess). On 9.04 no problems. Tested with 2 instances of Eclipse. One copied from 9.04 and second fresh install. Other editors raport the same problem. Its anoying as hell.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-05-04
Ubuntu mounts so much faster it's possible nobody thought about fstab executing before the network is up. Look at posts 6 and 7 for possible resolutions: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466599](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466599)

Same thing is happening on VirtualBox guests that have host shares mounted in fstab.

---

### Post by kosci on 2010-05-04
not only mount is fast but ubuntu is fast:) (comparing to old 9.04)
back to subject, _netdev does nothing
writing scripts to /etc/network/if-up.d and /etc/network/if-down.d fixed the automount issue.

problem with file beeing modified after save to samba share persist. i played with ls --full-time but dont see any difference between just saved and few second later when the popup apear (looking at the save time). Is there a way to track what process/program/file/whatever is touching a file ?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-05-05
> **Morbius1 said:**
> Ubuntu mounts so much faster it's possible nobody thought about fstab executing before the network is up.
.........

Manually editing /etc/network/interfaces will have the network enabled without waiting for the Network Manager process (which has to be started like everything else) to do it.

The **gnome-network-admin** package can do this for you.

---

