---
title: "16.0.4 not shutting down - just hangs forever"
date: 2016-05-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2016-05-18
Acer laptop ha been running 14.0.4 for years. Decided to switch up to 16 and in a moment of haste clicked "Erase and install..." so no 14 to fall back to. My fault I know, but 16 is not shutting down.

It seems to work fine for everything, but when I click the gear in top right then "Shut down" and finally click the right-side button to really shut down, it shows a "DOS-like" display scrolling past for about 5 seconds the I get the purple "Ubuntu" with the five dots beneath it.

The dots roll through orange and white as normal, but it just sits there. I left it running last night for two hours and same so pulled the plug. 

This morning tried again and it started up and worked fine, used "sudo apt-get update" etc and all good. But, shut-down is not working again and I am back at the purple screen and rolling dots forever.

The 14LTS used to shut down fine.

Thoughts? Fixes?

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2016-05-18
If you are not using remote printers try [COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]sudo systemctl stop cups-browsed.service and sudo systemctl disable cups-browsed.service[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2016-05-18
> **Linuxisfast said:**
> If you are not using remote printers try [COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]sudo systemctl stop cups-browsed.service and sudo systemctl disable cups-browsed.service[/FONT][/COLOR]

Thanks, but has made no difference. No printers just a wifi connection to the Guest system on the router.

Also does the same for "Restart"

In fact, with nothing connected and the Phoenix BIOS all set back to factory, still hangs. This laptop has an LED for disk activity and there is none after that dos-like display stops scrolling. It goes too fast to see but the last word is "interface" before the lock-up.

Sounds like it is lost internally. :)

I now have a switch on the power supply as a short term ease-of-use thing.

Not sure if it helps, but 14 used to give me a grub menu at start-up, but 16 just goes straight through to the Password entry. All options during install were as it wanted to be, well, other than wiping 14.

AND Suspend when closing lid, hangs at the Password entry.

Going back to 14, this 16 SUCKS!

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2016-05-18
When I installed 16.04 on one of my desktops, after install the system got stuck on reboot. I had to manually shut system down via the power switch. After reboot I noticed sometimes the shutdown would be slow but after few updates including kernel its running good now. My shutdown on my ThinkPad laptop remains a bit slow compared to 14.04

---

