---
title: "11.04 Compiz high CPU usage"
date: 2011-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by carloshiga on 2011-05-06
- Fresh 11.04 install;
- Video card: ATI Radeon 3100;
- Browsers: Chromium and Firefox;
- Using Unity or Ubuntu Classic.

Problem: High CPU usage by
compiz and
/usr/bin/X :0 auth /var/run/gdm/auth-for-gdm-qc30oT/database -nolisten tcp vt7

specially when accessing a website containing Flash animations.

I
- Installed the suggested driver;
- Installed the driver manually using ati-driver-installer-11-4-x86.x86_64.run;
- Disabled "Sync to VBlank" in CCSM;
- Searched through the forum for a solution.
but it is still not as good as it was on 10.10.
Any suggestion?

---

### Post by sgrandi on 2011-05-07
The same happens to me.

I upgraded from ubuntu 10.10, the system is working fine but compiz uses the 100% of cpu.

I have a HP pavillon dual core, with ATI 4500 series Card.

I tried also to download and install from ATI the latest proprietary drivers, with no result.

Bye

---

### Post by jefftabb on 2011-05-12
I have the same problem too. From time to time the fan on my laptop will just start up and I'll notice my performance drops. I turned on the system monitor it showed compiz using 112% of my processor time. Its a dual core machine it would use 100% of one core and 12% or more of the other core. It's a core 2 duo 2.53ghz 4Gb of ram an ATI Radeon 4650 1Gb. I'm using the official drivers and this was a fresh install. The programs I had running at the time were firefox and transmission.

---

### Post by ram130 on 2011-05-15
Same here, tried similar steps as the OP and I have the same video card as the above poster. This is really an annoying issue. Seems to happen once per day unless I restart..

Does this happen on the regular restricted drivers?

---

### Post by Rebelli0us on 2011-05-15
I don't much care for BLING, so I've uninstalled compiz and set "visual effects" to **None**. Now the only thing hogging CPU is Adobe Flash, I wish I could delete that too.

---

### Post by jstockmans on 2011-05-16
Same issue here: SOLVED

11.04
HP Pavillion dv7
GeForce GT 230M
Linux-x86_64
Nvidia Driver: 270.41.06
X: 1.10.1 (11001000)

Compiz at 100% on 4 of my 8 cores - this begins and never ceases after initial boot up
Unity bar works until you click - show multiple desktops, or use the hot key then everything locks up. Forced to ctrl-alt-backspace to get back onto the box.. short of ctrl alt f key to get to console.

Found while playing about with compiz that I had enabled mipmaps on static application switcher... although it causes very pretty looking screens .. it was causing compiz and possibly the nvidia driver to go nutz and take over my computer.

I also disabled mipmaps on expo - appearance just to be safe.

Hope this helps some of you with your issues....

---

### Post by carloshiga on 2011-05-16
Mipmaps is already disabled in both, Application Switcher and Expo. So this is not what is causing the problem.

---

### Post by sgtGarcia on 2011-05-16
Well I had this problem too ( under Classic Ubuntu ), so I switched WM to Metacity and all problems went away.

---

### Post by carloshiga on 2011-05-17
I've just installed Catalyst 11.5 using ati-driver-installer-11-5-x86.x86_64.run with no better results.

---

### Post by bootedguy on 2011-05-17
I have this problem on my laptop.  I use to restart, but now I simply disconnect the wireless connection temporarily, and that clears up the problem.

Some times I go weeks without this happening, other times it happens two or three times in one day.

No problem on my desktops.

---

### Post by gene simmons on 2011-05-17
im also having this issue,i tried classic and turning compiz off,i then went into preferences and changed profile from default to unity and it seems beter so far. hope that was it

---

### Post by modal1 on 2011-07-14
Try enabling Error Notifications under Utility in the Compiz Settings Manager and if you get an error about a particular effect..try setting that effect(s) back to defaults.

---

### Post by Rebootkid on 2011-08-10
For me the problem comes up when I have suspended and resumed a lot.

It seems after about 3 days of suspend/resume, I've got to reboot, or Compiz eats an entire core.

I've tried updating the nvidia drivers, no change.

---

