---
title: "8.04 Install Won't Accept Wep Key"
date: 2009-03-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JerryI on 2009-03-13
Installed dual boot 8.04 after XP on HP laptop and cannot access my network (2wire411) because wep key passphrase (0360663701 or 0360-6637-01) is rejected.  Is there something else I have to install first?

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-03-13
Is there a restore defaults button, sort of hidden on the device somewhere? They would not make it easy to find. If you find one after it is reset you would have to set the device up from scratch but you would be able to put in a new key or passpharase.  There may also be a restore defaults somewhere in the set when you get into the device to do the same thing.

---

### Post by JerryI on 2009-03-13
Thanks, but I'm not inclined to try the idea in the previous response.  This 2wire ATT Uverse gateway router doesn't need a reset, as I can access it fine from another computer (via Intrepid and by Vista and by XP).  However, the following info might be useful to someone much geekier than I am.  Someone suggested the following diagnostic checks.  I have no idea what this stuff means.

----------------------------------------
jerry@laptop:~$ sudo iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

eth1      IEEE 802.11b/g  ESSID:off/any  Nickname:"zd1211"
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: Invalid   
          Bit Rate=1 Mb/s   
          Encryption key:off
          Link Quality=71/100  Signal level=40/100  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

-----------------------------------------------------
jerry@laptop:~$ sudo iwlist eth1 scan
eth1      Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: 00:22:A4:1C:BD:B1
                    ESSID:"2WIRE411"
                    Protocol:IEEE 802.11bg
                    Mode:Master
                    Frequency:2.427 GHz (Channel 4)
                    Encryption key:on
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s
                              11 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Quality=100/100  Signal level=100/100  
                    Extra: Last beacon: 348ms ago
          Cell 02 - Address: 00:14:95:87:6D:B1
                    ESSID:"2WIRE675"
                    Protocol:IEEE 802.11bg
                    Mode:Master
                    Frequency:2.437 GHz (Channel 6)
                    Encryption key:on
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s
                              9 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Quality=100/100  Signal level=100/100  
                    Extra: Last beacon: 240ms ago
          Cell 03 - Address: 00:1D:7E:C5:69:8B
                    ESSID:"supreme"
                    Protocol:IEEE 802.11bg
                    Mode:Master
                    Frequency:2.437 GHz (Channel 6)
                    Encryption key:on
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s
                              11 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Quality=100/100  Signal level=11/100  
                    Extra: Last beacon: 280ms ago
--------------------------------------------------------------
jerry@laptop:~$ sudo dhclient eth1
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.0.6
Copyright 2004-2007 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/](http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/)

Listening on LPF/eth1/00:1e:37:f6:cc:c4
Sending on   LPF/eth1/00:1e:37:f6:cc:c4
Sending on   Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on eth1 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
DHCPDISCOVER on eth1 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 7
DHCPDISCOVER on eth1 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 7
DHCPDISCOVER on eth1 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 14
No DHCPOFFERS received.
No working leases in persistent database - sleeping.
jerry@laptop:~$ 

added this to /etc/network/interfaces replacing  SSID and wep key Code:

iface eth1 inet dhcp
wireless-essid 2wire411
wireless-key 00000000000000000000000000

to bring interface up at boot per 

[http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/linux-networking/40796-wep-key-format-solved.html](http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/linux-networking/40796-wep-key-format-solved.html)

It didn't solve my problem so I reverted the file.

---

### Post by Sir darkm on 2009-03-17
I dont  know if this will help you ,  but essentially I have uverse also(same scenario, i could see my network but couldnt establish the connection) and Ubuntu 8.04.   I tried too hard to manually configure the wireless connection, if your  trying to manually set it up take a step back, right click on the network icon and check the box to set the wireless to automatic mode and  let it detect the network.Now connect to it using the  wep. 

 also the  gateway  may need  some internal settings tweaked. The  default gateway password is on the Gate Way itself(same label the serial # is on),   I want to say its listed as a BAM  number, the install tech should have given you a ATT book with this info on it. Anyways they dont  tell you but from a working PC (xp in the dual boot?) you can acess your router by entering the ip address in a browser,  I think the default is 192.168.254.1 ( it could be 1.254 I super impose those all the time)  in case you need to change the WEP key  thats where it is done, as well as reboots,  mac filtering and port forwarding.

sorry bout all the typo's , its 2:04 am :o

good luck , also now that i have that fixed Im having a  problem with updating and repositries not found errors. Im thinking its a  Uverse gateway  setting(AUTO DNS), just an FYI if you cant update either. If i find a fix ill post it under UVERSE.

---

### Post by JerryI on 2009-03-17
Since my initial post in this thread I managed to clobber my Vista system on my desktop during a Hardy re-install, so I reformatted the hard disk, giving Vista about 40 percent and Hardy about 60 percent.  I now have network access.  I am continuing on a mission to install VirtualBox for XP, get my USB SoundBlaster to work, get Adobe Flashplayer to work, and get Nvidia Twinview to function so that I can regain my dual-monitor capability which I previously had in Intrepid on this machine.  I haven't had time to mess with the laptop to see if I can fix it, but I have come to the conclusion that the problem relates to an incompatible 2wire USB network adaptor.  I have ordered another piece of hardware by Belkin to replace it.  The new USB adaptor is somewhere between Hong Kong and Dallas and is not my top priority right now.

---

### Post by phr0ze on 2009-03-18
I also have problems using WEP in ubuntu with my network card. It has been traced down to the drivers. I wish I had another choice but I was using an adhoc wifi adpater on my phone to patch through to the internet via 3g. The wifi software only allows WEP or unsecured :(

Anyways the point is there are cards/drivers with wep problems in ubuntu.

---

