---
title: "new 10.4 install wants me to give default keyring on start up"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by toogooda on 2010-05-02
Hi All,

Very happy with new 10.4 install, however there is a nagging password prompt every time I boot.
At first I thought it was the wireless but I have that automated and it asks for the password well after the internet connection is established.
I am pretty sure it relates to the passwords for Twitter, Facebook etc that I gave it to use the new tools in 10.4
Is there any way to give it permanent permision so it doesn't ask me at boot up?

I would hate to have to stop using the nice new tool because of this.

Cheers,

AT

---

### Post by toogooda on 2010-05-06
Bump?

There must be a reason the default keyring prompt comes up after I have booted?

---

### Post by toogooda on 2010-05-11
I seem to be the only one getting this, my guess is that it is UbuntuOne or the new quibbler stuff I setup.

I will post back here if I ever solve it.

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-05-11
Do you also log-in automatically? If you do, then you will be asked to supply a password for the keyring for your own security. If however you log-in with a password this will no longer be needed and you can set everything else to start on auto if you so wish. If however you are already logging in with a password and then also get asked for a password for the keyring later then some settings are obviously not in order but I do not know which settings these are.

---

### Post by dbowlin17 on 2010-05-11
it happens if you login automagically. you will type in a password sometime starting up. either there or to just log in

---

### Post by toogooda on 2010-05-12
Thanks for your reply's

I do auto login as I have nothing to secure on this machine, is there no way to avoid the keyring the way I did for Wireless?

---

### Post by Erlander on 2010-05-12
I had this on the 10.04 Beta after I had a look at Ubuntu-One and solved it by removing Ubuntu One from my startup applications.

---

### Post by toogooda on 2010-10-21
Changed to login at startup this solved this issue

---

### Post by B Crowther on 2010-10-26
I had this problem when I changed my desktop to 10.10, but not, oddly, with my netbook - go figure.

The "classic" cure is to change the default keyring password to nothing, blank, nada, which has worked for me with all previous incarnations of Ubuntu.  With the desktop this time it didn't.  Neither did typing in the password by changing the login screen.

I am not technical enough to work out which app was causing it, although I suspect (because it was newly working, hadn't worked properly in 10.04) UbuntuOne.  Didn't want to disable it at startup, because I like the convenience it brings me.

I read somewhere that both the Login password and UbuntuOne password should be the same, so I changed the Ubuntu One password via the web interface, and **UbuntuOne required a more secure password than I wanted to use.** (my original one had been less secure.)  So, back on the desktop I made the Login password the same as the UbuntuOne password, made the keyring password blank, and the nagging has gone away.

Don't know why, but it worked.  Maybe there is a level of security somewhere in the works below which UbuntuOne causes unusual things to happen?  Anyway, I am now a happy, if insecure, desktop user.  I have no secrets on my computer, and if some nerd wants to read my bizzo because I don't have a keyring password, then he is a far more peculiar and unhappy citizen than I am.

---

