---
title: "9.10 Mouse Freeze Issues"
date: 2009-12-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pycrust19 on 2009-12-25
After upgrading to ubuntu 9.10 my mouse will freeze within 5-15 minutes. My keyboard will continue on working but this happenes all the time and the only thing I can do is reboot. Any Suggestions or places to look?!?!

---

### Post by NNing on 2010-02-11
so no suggestions? 

pity, because I'm searching online now for a solution to this problem. (I recently put Ubuntu 9.10 on too.)

if you found a solution, would you mind posting it to this thread?

cheers,
NiNo.

---

### Post by NNing on 2010-02-11
Here's another thread, also with no resolution but some suggestions I found elsewhere and yet to try.... (if anyone else is interested.)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8812615#post8812615](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8812615#post8812615)

NiNo.

---

### Post by brodiewells on 2010-10-02
I am interested.  I have this problem also.  How did you fix it?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-02
If it was an upgrade done online (as opposed to a clean install) this might help:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857)

---

### Post by brodiewells on 2010-10-03
no, it was a clean install.  Thanks for trying tho.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-03
What about Ubuntu 10.04 and 10.10?

---

### Post by brodiewells on 2010-10-03
I have not upgraded to 10.10 yet.  Maybe I will try that.  It is a clean install and it is my wifes computer so she does not even do updates as often as she should.  The only time updates are done is when i get a hold of it.  Thanks for looking at this!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-03
You don't have to install, just try 10.10 from a live CD.

You can make the system install updates automagically in the background.

---

### Post by brodiewells on 2010-10-03
> **mörgæs said:**
> You don't have to install, just try 10.10 from a live CD.

You can make the system install updates automagically in the background.

I was going to do that but the 10.10 netbook remix isn't out.  If I did the desktop edition would it update the netbook?  I don't even know if it will work, all of the old kernel images don't work.  I feel like it has to be some setting that can be fixed.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-04
A live CD will not install anything unless you actively decides to do so. 

You can use any edition, also the classic desktop.

---

