---
title: "ThinkPad T-Series Docking Station with Ubuntu 12.04"
date: 2013-06-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by steelnation on 2013-06-12
Hello all. Reposted this from hardware since I didn't get any response and I need to know whether I should keep this laptop or not ASAP (Dock not working is kind of a deal breaker)

  I recently purchased a ThinkPad T-Series 530 with the NVidia graphics card.

About a month ago I installed Ubuntu 13.04 (And completely bricked  windows in the process, but thats a whole different conversation).

Ubuntu 13.04 played impressively nicely with my ThinkPads dock.  The  only thing I had to do was tell Compiz to not display ubuntu on the  laptop monitor itself.  On one of the monitors moving the mouse would  "streak", but other than the minor latency issues everything was sweet.

However with Ubuntu 12.04 Compize doesn't even seem to detect the second  monitor.  I can't find many articles on the topic, most google searches  return stuff involving the wrong type of dock (Desktop Environment  docks not hardware docks.)

This one looks promising though:[URL="http://www.ehow.com/how_7640719_setup-docking-station-linux.html"]

http://www.ehow.com/how_7640719_setu...ion-linux.html[/URL]

Anyone have any experience with how docking stations play with Linux?

Thanks,

Hunter

---

### Post by Iowan on 2013-06-12
From the Code of Conduct:
> Do not cross post, or post the same thing in multiple locations.
A preferred method would be to use the Report Post button and ask staff to move it.
I will close the other thread.

29 minutes was not enough time to claim no response...

---

### Post by steelnation on 2013-06-12
> **Iowan said:**
> From the Code of Conduct:

A preferred method would be to use the Report Post button and ask staff to move it.
I will close the other thread.

29 minutes was not enough time to claim no response...

Apologies, should have glanced over the Code of Conduct.  Won't happen again.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-06-12
Well I have an older T61p with the NVidia Quadro FX 570M running proprietary driver 304.88 on 12.04.02, and it seems to work OK with my 2504 docking station - I don't regularly use it in the dock but it's docked right now and appears to be displaying OK in 'Twinview' config (displaying across both the laptop screen and an external Samsung monitor via DVI) - I have not messed with Compiz or any other settings. I don't have an external mouse connected but both the trackpad and pointer are working across both displays. Let me know if there's any other info you need.

---

### Post by steelnation on 2013-06-12
> **steeldriver said:**
> Well I have an older T61p with the NVidia Quadro FX 570M running proprietary driver 304.88 on 12.04.02, and it seems to work OK with my 2504 docking station - I don't regularly use it in the dock but it's docked right now and appears to be displaying OK in 'Twinview' config (displaying across both the laptop screen and an external Samsung monitor via DVI) - I have not messed with Compiz or any other settings. I don't have an external mouse connected but both the trackpad and pointer are working across both displays. Let me know if there's any other info you need.

Cool.  It drives me crazy it worked with 13.04 but 12.04.  Has to be something in xorg.conf according to this post:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1913401](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1913401)

and this one from the arch forums:

[https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=114807](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=114807)

Would you mind posting your xorg.conf?

Thanks,
H

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-06-12
no problem - note that I have NOT modified this at all, it's whatever was generated by the 'Additional Drivers' install (I did insert a NoLogo option when running a much earlier driver so maybe it's imported that from a previous config)

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 304.88  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-14)  Wed Mar 27 15:36:45 PDT 2013

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    # Option "UseVBios" 0
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    # generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

```

---

