---
title: "8.04 Crashing and other problems."
date: 2008-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shamusl on 2008-04-24
I installed 8.04 about 1 hour ago (not upgrade) and all 8.04 does is crash. Since I've installed it, it's crashed 5 times just going through the package manager. Is anyone else experiencing this issue, or is it just me?

Also, I can't use any desktop effects on 8.04 for some unknown reason, can anybody help me with this? (Im running 4gb ram, Intel core 2 duo e6400, nvidia 7600gt) Desktop effects should work on this computer, no? (NOTE: I'm new to Ubuntu, and please explain things fully).

---

### Post by Rainstride on 2008-04-24
maybe there where errors on your install cd. did you run a check for errors on the disk after burning?

---

### Post by natrixgli on 2008-04-24
Welcome to Ubuntu Forums, sorry to hear about your crashing issue...

Are you new to Linux, or just new to Ubuntu? Will the system crash if you don't use the package manager? (not to suggest you shouldn't be able to use the package manager, but just for diagnostic sake..)

Did you enable any restricted drivers, or install any software from the package manager? Any error messages? 

The more info you can provide the easier it will be to identify the problem. You might also search the forums or Google for information regarding your particular hardware. Also do you have any uncommon hardware installed, like TV Tuner, etc?

I'm sure it's frustrating, but don't give up. Ubuntu is brilliant, I've been running 8.04 for months on my Toshiba laptop, also w/Core 2 Duo but using Intel X3100 graphics. 



Cheers,

-n8

---

### Post by strabes on 2008-04-24
The best way for you to get desktop effects working is to install the restricted (proprietary) drivers for your video card. Go to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers and simply check the checkbox next to your video card. It should download and install them for you. Reboot and you should be good.

---

