---
title: "~/.gvfs attributes messed up?"
date: 2010-07-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrJohn999 on 2010-07-05
I have this:
```
root@MyDesktop:/home/username# ls -lisa
ls: cannot access .gvfs: Permission denied
....
10739751     ? d?????????  ? ?           ?                  ?                ? .gvfs
....
root@MyDesktop:/home/username#

```
What should the attributes be? I would guess:

```
drwxr-xr-x username username
``` 

but all those missing / corrupted '?' values bother me. I don't think I have anything mounted here for gvfs-fuse, but I'm not sure. Is this normal? Is it possible to recreate this directory?

---

### Post by happyhamster on 2010-07-05
On my laptop, it's: dr-x------  username username

```

hah@huh:~$ ls -lisa | grep gvfs
     1       0 dr-x------  2 hah hah          0 2010-07-05 16:07 .gvfs

```

---

### Post by DrJohn999 on 2010-07-05
Easy enough to set the attributes thusly, but doing so won't fix the '?'s for size, date, etc. Looks like there's some kind of corruption here, although no problems are apparent: 

```
usernamew@desktopsystem:~$ mount | grep fuse
none on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/username/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=username)
usernamew@desktopsystem:~$ 
```

and

```
usernamew@desktopsystem:~$ cat /var/log/syslog | grep fuse
usernamew@desktopsystem:~$ dmesg | grep fuse
[    1.062687] fuse init (API version 7.13)
usernamew@desktopsystem:~$
```

So, can anyone say whether this is a problem?

And, here's where my limited knowledge falls off the edge: what exactly does this fs do? The [package info ]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/libs/gvfs-fuse")says

> gvfs is a userspace virtual filesystem where mount runs as a separate processes which you talk to via D-Bus. It also contains a gio module that seamlessly adds gvfs support to all applications using the gio API. It also supports exposing the gvfs mounts to non-gio applications using fuse.

This package contains the gvfs-fuse server that exports gvfs mounts to all applications using FUSE. 

Thanks for any enlightenment!

---

### Post by DrJohn999 on 2010-07-05
Solved by a reboot. Here's what happened: I had unmounted an old ntfs drive left over from Windows days after stopping Samba, changed it to ext4, mounted to the same point (/media/MediaDrive, not anywhere in /home), and restored the files. Obviously gvfs-fuse was connected to it somehow at ~/.gvfs, but did not complain about unmounting the drive (unlike Samba which did complain). Rebooting fixed it up just fine:

```
username@desktop:~$ ls -lisa | grep gvfs
       1     0 dr-x------  3 username username        0 2010-07-05 10:41 .gvfs
username@desktop:~$
```]

So, anyway, I'm still in the dark about gvfs -- anyone point me to some further text on the topic?

---

### Post by happyhamster on 2010-07-05
Thanks to the almighty google :P :

[https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Features/Gvfs](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Features/Gvfs)

[http://library.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/2.22/#sect:gvfs](http://library.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/2.22/#sect:gvfs)

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-07-05
I don't think that was the fix. Your original post shows your command prompt as root. I think the .gvfs driver only allows the owner of the mount to view the contents - root cannot see into your .gvfs folder, hence the questionmarks. Had you used a terminal in your own user id, I think things would have looked normal, and I think all rebooting achieved was removing the root console.

---

### Post by DrJohn999 on 2010-07-05
Cog -- you are absolutely correct! So, then, 'normal' behaviour.... Strange, tho, that even root is not permitted -- that's what caught me out.

It also seems strange that there's a mount point in $home: are there more? I have now excluded this directory from  automated backups as it may contain, for example, an ftp site if opened from Nautilus when the backup runs, and I don't want to back up someone else's site! Imagine if I were connected to ftp.ubuntu.com?

Thanks for the discussion -- I've learned something.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-07-06
If you use encfs to mount encrypted folders, the same restriction applies - root cannot see into other user's decrypted mount point. Probably also true of ecryptfs but I haven't tried.

I can confirm that if you do a backup (as opposed to root doing the backup) then it is perfectly capable of trying to back up every remote filesystem that nautilus has open via .gvfs. How long the backup takes is a clue that something odd is happening.

---

