---
title: "Bash script quick question"
date: 2011-06-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by g999b on 2011-06-19
Hi All :)

I'm a Bash script (almost) absolute beginner. I'm writing a quick script to maintain my /home/ in good order, by deleting some files my system generates but I never/seldom use (ex: all the "example~" files generated by Emacs, "dead.letter" file generated by Alpine etc.).

So what I want to do is a script that would check the existence of the said files and if they exist delete them, if the file do not exist, then I want Bash to tell me that it has nothing to do.

So here is what I wrote:
==BEGIN==
## Delete the file with "~" in the .myscript folder if they exist
if ls ~/.my_scripts/*~
then rm -f ~/.my_scripts/*~
else printf "Nothing to do mate!\n"
fi

## Delete the file dead.letter generated sometimes by Alpine
if ls ~/dead.letter
then rm -f ~/dead.letter
else printf "Nothing to do mate!\n"
fi
==END==

Here is my problem : when the script checks the existence of the file with 'ls' it always verbose the result, which is annoying... It does so if the file exist as well as if the file does not exist. 

1. Is there a way to ask 'ls' not to verbose its result?

2. Is there a better way to do what I'm trying to do?


Thanks!

---

### Post by amauk on 2011-06-19
ls may not be the best way to do this
untested, but something like this may be better
```
#!/bin/bash

IFS=$'\n'

## Delete the file with "~" in the .myscript folder if they exist
FILES=$(find ~/.myscripts -type f -name '*~')
if [ -n "$FILES" ]; then
	for FILE in $FILES; do
		rm -f "$FILE"
	done
else
	echo "Nothing to do mate!\n"
fi

## Delete the file dead.letter generated sometimes by Alpine
if [ -f ~/dead.letter ]; then
	rm -f ~/dead.letter
else
	echo "Nothing to do mate!\n"
fi
```

---

### Post by CaptainMark on 2011-06-19
anytime you want to quiet the reponse from a command you send the output to /dev/null its a little trick if you want to hush something up, so ```
ls -R /home 
``` will list all the files in your home```
ls -R /home >/dev/null
```lists them again but sends to list to /dev/null its like a little black whole on your system that just eats up the output and destroys it, this becomes epecially useful when you want to output something when a command works and something else if it doesnt, this is going to be usefull to you if you want to make a little one liner for your task```
rm $HOME/.my_scripts/*~* 2>/dev/null && echo "Deleted" || echo "No File"
```so  
rm $HOME/.my_scripts/*~* will attempt to remove any file in .my_scripts with a ~ character in its name
2>/dev/null will send output from the error channel (2) to /dev/null
&& echo "Deleted" will give this message ONLY if the command executes correctly so in this case if the file is detected and removes
|| echo "No file" will do the opposite and print the given message if the command DOES NOT execute correctly, in this case if the file is not there so it cannot be removed

---

### Post by g999b on 2011-06-19
Amauk, Captain Mark,

Much appreciated guys!

Thank you for taking the time :)

Just in case you'd know, could you recommend a good resource (online or offline) to learn Bash script? I have the book by O'Reilly ( [http://oreil.ly/juvGtP](http://oreil.ly/juvGtP) ) but I cannot say I like the book a lot (not enough examples for my taste). 

G'day!

---

### Post by amauk on 2011-06-19
> **g999b said:**
> could you recommend a good resource (online or offline) to learn Bash script?[http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/](http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/)

---

### Post by g999b on 2011-06-19
Noted with thanks. Cheers mate!

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-06-19
I wish I'd read this first

[http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashGuide](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashGuide)

read the pitfalls section as well.

---

### Post by g999b on 2011-06-19
Question: what's the use of 
```
IFS=$'\n'
```
in your script? Thanks!


> **amauk said:**
> ls may not be the best way to do this
untested, but something like this may be better
```
#!/bin/bash

IFS=$'\n'

## Delete the file with "~" in the .myscript folder if they exist
FILES=$(find ~/.myscripts -type f -name '*~')
if [ -n "$FILES" ]; then
	for FILE in $FILES; do
		rm -f "$FILE"
	done
else
	echo "Nothing to do mate!\n"
fi

## Delete the file dead.letter generated sometimes by Alpine
if [ -f ~/dead.letter ]; then
	rm -f ~/dead.letter
else
	echo "Nothing to do mate!\n"
fi
```

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-06-19
It sets the field seperator to a new line, rather than the default space.

Helps if your files have spaces in them.

---

### Post by g999b on 2011-06-20
gotcha! Thanks.

---

