---
title: "18.04: How to get GTK 3 treeview alternating row colors?"
date: 2018-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2018-10-23
Using Xubuntu 18.04 with Greybird theme, and all the GTK 3 GtkTreeViews have all the rows white (gnome-system-monitor is one example).  I would like to make the odd numbered rows a different background color, so that the treeviews are "zebra striped" / alternating row colors.  What to put in [FONT=Courier New]~/.config/gtk-3.0/gtk.css[/FONT] to achieve this?

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2018-12-08
bump

---

### Post by again? on 2018-12-08
I don't think you can with apps using gtk3.
I can force a gtk2 app to use a different theme than my default 
but I don't think gtk3 supports the gtk2 alternate row colours.

---

### Post by freemedia2018 on 2018-12-08
You need to set rules-hint to true, it is still in gtk3 [https://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/stable/GtkTreeView.html](https://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/stable/GtkTreeView.html)

Not that I've tried it, but I believe it is still available.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2018-12-10
> **freemedia2018 said:**
> You need to set rules-hint to true, it is still in gtk3 [https://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/stable/GtkTreeView.html](https://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/stable/GtkTreeView.html)

Not that I've tried it, but I believe it is still available.
I'm not writing a GTK 3 app.  I'm looking to tweak the GTK 3 theme through [FONT=Courier New]~/.config/gtk-3.0/gtk.css[/FONT] .

The page you linked says -
> Do not use it just because you prefer the appearance of the ruled tree; that’s a question for the theme. Some themes will draw tree rows in alternating colors even when rules are turned off, and users who prefer that appearance all the time can choose those themes. 

What I would like to do is make the theme do exactly that, i.e. always draw tree rows in alternating row colors.

---

### Post by freemedia2018 on 2018-12-11
> **halogen2 said:**
> I'm not writing a GTK 3 app.  I'm looking to tweak the GTK 3 theme through [FONT=Courier New]~/.config/gtk-3.0/gtk.css[/FONT]

Most of the settings for GTK authors should have corresponding settings in your gtk config. It's like that for WebKit and I'm hoping this will translate into a gtk config setting for you. If I modify my own config to do what you want, I will be sure to let you know.

This was in a response to someone saying that the setting didn't exist in GTK 3. I didn't try to refute that to be pedantic, I hoped it would encourage someone in this thread (possibly even you) to help you find the needing setting. If people think the setting doesn't exist (still a possibility) they're less likely to try to find it. But I figure it likely that it's still there. The page I linked to would probably give a hint if the name of the setting changed. It's still possible the app doesn't support the setting.

---

