---
title: ".NET FrameWork Aplications"
date: 2008-02-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zaphod777 on 2008-02-03
I am trying to get a Windows application to work that uses .net framework.  it is called wiibrickblocker it is so i can remove firmware updates of of wii games so i dont brick my wii playing gaes from different regions. 

anyway it looks like it needs .net framework 2.0 any idea on how to get this to run in ubuntu?

[http://wiki.gbatemp.net/index.php?title=WiiBrickBlocker](http://wiki.gbatemp.net/index.php?title=WiiBrickBlocker)

---

### Post by markharding557 on 2008-02-03
not good news 
it can't be run directly on linux because it's a windows o/s component
it does not work on wine according to the wine app database

---

### Post by zaphod777 on 2008-02-03
yeah that was kind of what i was figuring but i figured someone might have some hack or crack.

---

### Post by AsoSako on 2008-02-03
You can always install Windows on Virtualbox and run the application you need from there (it is even better with seamless desktop turned on).  It should work that way, although you would be emulating it instead of using a compatibility layer.

---

### Post by zaphod777 on 2008-02-04
Yea I know I can do that but I would really like to run it nativly if I can.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2008-02-04
There's an outside chance you can run it under mono (linux version). Wouldn't hurt to try

---

### Post by zaphod777 on 2008-02-04
It appears that mono is not up to .Net 2.0 ad I tried instlling the latest from the mono site but it didn't seam to make any difference and caused strange system behavior so I removed it. I wish they had a DEB.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2008-02-04
I've only used it (mono) for FLV Extract which I believe is a .net 2.0 app. I used the version available in synaptic - 1.2.4-6

---

