---
title: "Update broke nvidia"
date: 2010-09-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ric95 on 2010-09-27
I just updated the system with the generic 2.6.32-25 kernel (64bit), and now it can't load the module. 
The hardware manager shows the current nvidia driver is in use, the Nvidia x server settings manager gives the error
> You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run "nvidia-xconfig" as root and restart the X server
xorg.conf lists the nvidia driver just fine, but of course its a module problem. 
The xorg.log ends with:
> (II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/extra-modules/nvidia_drv.so
(II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
    compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
    Module class: X.Org Video Driver
(EE) NVIDIA: Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module. Please check your
(EE) NVIDIA:     system's kernel log for additional error messages.
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
(II) Unloading /usr/lib/xorg/extra-modules/nvidia_drv.so
(EE) Failed to load module "nvidia" (module-specific error, 0)
(EE) No drivers available.

Fatal server error:
no screens found
Is there a current fix for this, or should I wait until the repositories have the fix and update again.? (this has happened before, and reupdating fixed it that time.)

---

### Post by buntunub on 2010-09-28
I wish there was. I have the same issue and I am no Linux newby. Have tried multiple solutions and still no joy.

---

### Post by envygeeks on 2010-09-28
Well, as a system administrator my first thought would be if it broke during an update uninstall it and reinstall it. Which Driver did you install? Did you try and remove all of the Nvidia drivers (reconfiguring x first of course to use vesa) and then rebooting and reinstalling?  I know it's a trivial and tedius task to have to do but it usually works since it will recompile against your current kernel (or should at least, I don't know how Nvidia drivers work since I rock out ATI)

---

### Post by JoelOl75 on 2010-09-28
Might try changing nvidia to vesa in your xorg.conf file and when the desktop starts up select hardware drivers from the admin menu and see if it lists your nvidia driver again and re-install

Just the first and most simple way I could think of, may not work... Also it could manually be done with synaptic. Search for nvidia and install the proper driver for your card.  Also while there install the package "dkms"  The lack of this package may have created the problem in the first place.

---

### Post by Xoanan on 2010-09-28
Same issue here;  will try the listed fix and let you know..

Here's the current config file

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Thu Apr 15 05:52:31 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Ric95 on 2010-09-28
Thanks for the quick replies guys.:)
envygeeks mentioned uninstalling and reinstalling the nvidia drivers to trigger the module build. I may try that, but Joel0125 mentioned "dkms". I found this thread about dkms:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1036788]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1036788") I'll let you know if this solves it for me :)
*edit*
dkms is already installed. It looks like the update simply forgot to trigger dkms to build a new module to match the new kernel to the nvidia driver. Hopefully I can figure out how to use it here:
[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man8/dkms.8.html]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man8/dkms.8.html")

---

### Post by sd08154711 on 2010-09-28
I just had the same effect.
(nvidia broken after the kernel upgrade)
This helped for me:

  sudo aptitude install linux-headers-generic
  sudo aptitude reinstall nvidia-173

If you have another nvidia driver version installed then replace "nvidia-173" by the appropriate name.
If unsure you can figure it out with:

  dpkg --get-selections | grep nvidia-

Hope that this is useful for someone.

-- sd

---

### Post by davidvandoren on 2010-09-28
I had the same problem twice.
Each time after a kernel update so did I yesterday again.

Solution
You will have to install the linux_header-generic matching your new kernel. If you use pae kernel you'll need the pae linux-header-generic pae

---

### Post by 7h3d4rk0n3 on 2010-09-28
From what I have researched, whenever the kernel updates, it doesn't update the drivers for that particular version. I did find a workaround for it that did update the driver when you did a kernel update. I'll have to see if I can't find the how-to for that.

I found it, although it is for Fedora, it should work similarly with Ubuntu. I would upload it, but it is too large for the forums :(

---

### Post by buntunub on 2010-09-28
I use the Nvidia beta drivers from PPA build and the latest kernel update broke DKMS. The fix was to remove --purge all traces of Nvidia drivers/headers from the system, then just reinstall as normal. Fixed it. This is the only kernel update that has ever borked my Nvidia drivers in Lucid so it was a bit of a surprise. Most likely they hosed up the kernel build packaging. Sloppy and wreckless. Shame!

---

### Post by srivo on 2010-09-28
Simply install the kernel header for kernel 2.6.32-25 and reconfigure X if you have return to the basic VESA driver, reboot and everything will be back to normal.

For newbie:
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-2.6.32-25
sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo reboot

---

### Post by Ric95 on 2010-09-28
I liked sd08154711s solution. ( and note the similarity to sirvos' post)
> sudo aptitude install linux-headers-generic
sudo aptitude reinstall nvidia-173
..and reboot. 
It worked :)
Thanks to everyone for the input, I'll mark this as solved.

---

