---
title: "10.04 LTS No X on boot"
date: 2012-02-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Xezlec on 2012-02-15
So I booted my computer today, and there was no X.  startx doesn't work.  sudo service gdm start doesn't work.  No error messages in the logs.  Just no X.

Of course, I'm used to this problem.  All Linux distros occasionally fail to start certain things at boot, for no reason.  Just part of the cost of using the buggiest OS.  But the problem didn't go away after a reboot, and I really don't have time to reinstall my system this time.  Does anyone know any tricks to fix Linux's characteristic spontaneous boot failures, even if it's just temporary?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-02-16
> **Xezlec said:**
> So I booted my computer today, and there was no X.  startx doesn't work.  sudo service gdm start doesn't work.  No error messages in the logs.  Just no X.

Of course, I'm used to this problem.  All Linux distros occasionally fail to start certain things at boot, for no reason.  Just part of the cost of using the buggiest OS.  But the problem didn't go away after a reboot, and I really don't have time to reinstall my system this time.  Does anyone know any tricks to fix Linux's characteristic spontaneous boot failures, even if it's just temporary?

Pull the power cord out for at least 30 seconds to reset the hardware.

---

### Post by Xezlec on 2012-02-17
> **dcstar said:**
> Pull the power cord out for at least 30 seconds to reset the hardware.

That didn't work.

---

### Post by Xezlec on 2012-02-18
What do the "average Joe" users do when they run into these kinds of issues?  Just assume it's time for a reinstall?

---

### Post by gakon77 on 2012-02-18
I'm not an expert but it may be that the x-server hasn't intalled properly.

What about trying some "sudo apt-get install x11"? It may not solve the problem completely because you still may need the desktop environment.

During the process of installing those packages it may be useful to check the possible errors the terminal outputs, so you can point to them in case something goes wrong.

Good luck!

---

### Post by Zill on 2012-02-18
> **Xezlec said:**
> ...Of course, I'm used to this problem.  All Linux distros occasionally fail to start certain things at boot, for no reason.  Just part of the cost of using the buggiest OS...
Of course, many other users *never* get this problem. ;-)  Linux OS's are as good as you will find anywhere and many problems are simply down to "finger trouble" by the user.

I suggest that if you start with a clean default installation, then update regularly, you will have a good solid installation that "just works".  If you *only* install software intended for the particular release, from official stable repositories (no backports!), your system is likely to remain reliable with uptimes that can be measured in months.

Installing software from other, more dubious, sources is quite likely to lead to problems.

---

### Post by claracc on 2012-02-19
> Of course, many other users never get this problem. Linux OS's are as good as you will find anywhere and many problems are simply down to "finger trouble" by the user.


+1

Completely agree, using ubuntu for more than three years now and very happy with it. It is free and it simply works, there are bugs as in other OS and the critical and important ones are used to be solved. Also there is an active community compromised to do it better, as for example the forum where poster is asking for help.

---

### Post by Xezlec on 2012-02-22
> **Zill said:**
> Of course, many other users *never* get this problem. ;-)  Linux OS's are as good as you will find anywhere and many problems are simply down to "finger trouble" by the user.

I've found that I get about one weird unexplained problem every week in a typical Linux distro.  Most of them aren't critical.  For instance, my mom's box randomly changes the X settings however it wants, differently on each boot.  She has to change it again (using the GUI) every time she starts up.  "Saving" the settings doesn't work.  Standard default installation on a very normal PC.  I seem to recall that I used to have a similar problem on SuSE.

> I suggest that if you start with a clean default installation, then update regularly, you will have a good solid installation that "just works".  If you *only* install software intended for the particular release, from official stable repositories (no backports!), your system is likely to remain reliable with uptimes that can be measured in months.

I wish that were my experience.  I always start with a clean default installation.  I always update regularly.  I've only ever installed things from the repository as far as I can remember.  Almost all I do with my computer is browse the web.  And yet, I can't seem to get a Linux desktop that just works normally every day when I boot it.  After a certain number of reboots, things always start to break.  I must be doing something wrong, and I'd love to know what it is, if you have any ideas.

Maybe the "uptime" thing is the difference between us.  I turn my computer off when I'm not using it.  Someone else also recently hinted to me that Linux may not be as stable under frequent reboots as other desktop OSes, so that might be the issue.

Regarding user forums, I do appreciate the help that they try to provide, and once in a while they are helpful, but sadly, my experience is that web forums almost never have a solution for most issues I encounter.  Like this problem, for example.  I'm just going to have to wipe and reinstall.  No one has a clue how to fix it other than that.  (Though I do appreciate the attempt.)

---

### Post by muteXe on 2012-02-22
Hiya.
It's weird because I would agree with everything you say OP, *except* for the LTS versions of ubuntu. I've gone from 8.04 to a fresh install of 10.04 and have been more than happy with stability. I've tried others between 9 and 11 but they've all been crashing pieces of s**t in my experience. 
Really don't know why you're having these problems with your LTS though. 
Also, can I add that every single version of slackware I have ever run does not exhibit your so called 'Linux expected glitches', so I'm not why you're getting all the problems you say.

---

### Post by Zill on 2012-02-22
> **Xezlec said:**
> ...I wish that were my experience.  I always start with a clean default installation.  I always update regularly.  I've only ever installed things from the repository as far as I can remember.  Almost all I do with my computer is browse the web.  And yet, I can't seem to get a Linux desktop that just works normally every day when I boot it.  After a certain number of reboots, things always start to break.  I must be doing something wrong, and I'd love to know what it is, if you have any ideas...
I am very surprised by this as your original heading implies that you are running 10.04 LTS.  Personally, I regard the "normal" six-monthly Ubuntu releases as "beta" and possibly rather buggy.  However, my experience of all the Long Term Support (LTS) releases is that they are rock-solid.
> **Xezlec said:**
> ...Maybe the "uptime" thing is the difference between us.  I turn my computer off when I'm not using it.  Someone else also recently hinted to me that Linux may not be as stable under frequent reboots as other desktop OSes, so that might be the issue.
As all the PCs (apart from one netbook) on our LAN run continuously, this may be a relevant factor in maintaining high reliability.  As well as meaning the PCs are always available, this also ensures that cron jobs run regularly to do the automatic housekeeping tasks that keep Linux systems in good working order.  The downside is, of course, the additional power used in running 24/7. :-(

Possibly other users will report their experiences of reliability with Linux systems that are frequently power-cycled.

---

### Post by quadproc on 2012-02-22
> **Xezlec said:**
> So I booted my computer today, and there was no X.  startx doesn't work.  sudo service gdm start doesn't work.  No error messages in the logs.  Just no X.

You _might_ have a hardware problem.  I ran 10.04 for quite a while when it was the current release and did not have the problem that you described, although I did occasionally have a problem where X windows would simply quit working when the machine was left idle for long periods of time.  Apparently, that "death from boredom" was fixed in 10.10 because I haven't seen the problem there.

You didn't say if you are overclocking or doing anything else that might be taxing your hardware.  You might wish to post the details of your processor speed, processor levels, memory speed, and anything else that might be relevant.

Also, one general comment about hardware: almost all electronics works better when it is cooler.  You might check for obstructed air flow, stuck fans, etc.

quadproc

---

### Post by Xezlec on 2012-02-22
Not overclocking.  There's a fan in there somewhere that rattles a little once in a while, but I haven't found any wires hitting it so I think it's ok.  Other than that no sign of cooling problems.  My apartment is very, very dusty.  That might matter.  But I've never had any problems with Windows on the same box, so I didn't think the hardware was an issue.  I can post more info on that if you think it's relevant, though.

muteXe: your comment makes me want to try Slackware.  Actually, that's one of the ones I always kind of wanted to try but was always kind of afraid to.

Also, when I talk about recurring problems of instability, understand that I mean Linux in general.  This is the first major, critical problem I've seen on Ubuntu.  Previous major problems I've had have been on other distros.  Most of the problems I've seen on Ubuntu could conceivably be chalked up to "nobody does that anymore" (i.e. serial ports, terminals, and I think my mom's PC is a Pentium 4) or "people don't usually do things like that" (dual monitors of two different kinds).

I wish I could find a way to just reinstall everything that's part of the GUI, but apt-get isn't quite smart enough for that as far as I can tell.  I guess I would have to step down through the dependency tree manually and create a list of things.

---

### Post by claracc on 2012-02-23
> You might wish to post the details of your processor speed, processor levels, memory speed, and anything else that might be relevant.


It could help in order to identify and solve the problem, as well of describing in detail the problem with X. Are you using privative drivers for your graphic card?, what is your graphic card?, have you tried to repair X from grub options?.

Any case I am running lucid lynx in my hp6720s laptop for more than one and a half year and no problem with X (I use metacity), it is solid rock.

I use to turn off computer almost every night and the behaviour of OS is as good as always.

---

### Post by muteXe on 2012-02-23
> **Xezlec said:**
> 

muteXe: your comment makes me want to try Slackware.  Actually, that's one of the ones I always kind of wanted to try but was always kind of afraid to.




You could also have a look at debian too. Think i'll be switching to that when 10.04 stops being supported. Or i'll go 100% slackware for my linux fix.

---

### Post by winh8r on 2012-02-23
I run one machine on 10.04LTS daily, it gets shut down and unplugged every night then rebooted in the morning.

I also run another 10.04LTS as a jukebox/music centre, this has been running constantly for three months without a reboot.

With regard to the OP's problem, the only time I have experienced anything like your problem was when a graphics card was failing and it became unstable and eventually died, once I replaced it things were back to normal. I am not saying that your graphics card is dying  and needs replaced , but it is a possibility from what I have seen.

I have seen a lot of friends experience PEBKAC problems though!!!

(Problem Exists Between Keyboard And Chair)

---

