---
title: "Cannot eject USB flash drive"
date: 2007-07-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-07-05
I'm in the midst of reinstalling a complete dual-boot configuration on my desktop (Windows user files got mysteriously corrupted). Up till now, everything's gone beautifully.

Then, I discovered that I a USB pen drive I used to back up a few smaller files wouldn't automatically mount, because HAL wasn't running. I looked it up here, and found a solution ```
sudo /etc/init.d/dbus restart
```That worked just fine, and I got to the file I wanted. I went to unmount it (the "eject" option having disappeared now), and I got this ```
umount: /media/PORTABLE is not in the fstab (and you are not root)
```I looked at fstab, and it is indeed not there, and that file itself appears to have been overwritten by NTFS-config.

I've been using Linux for several months now, but don't really know much about editing the fstab file. If anyone could give me some pointers on how to fix this, I'd very much appreciate it.

The file```
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=ea559730-8d10-4e98-86b9-1fa64d5778a0 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=a9157b77-71ee-4a97-ad64-5ab8f32f39ba none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/HP ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```Thanks in advance.

EDIT: I should add, too, that it worked *fine* before I installed NTFS-config, so I'm almost certain that's the problem. The lack of an "eject" option didn't concern me, since that option went away at some point on my previous installation, and I never had any problem simply unmounting the drive.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-07-05
Okay, after a great deal more searching, I discovered that it actually *shouldn't* be in /etc/fstab. So, I just umounted it from the terminal.

I'm still pretty curious about what's going on here, though. I've installed Ubuntu on several systems now, and this is the first time I've ever needed to use root privileges to remove a flash drive. Any ideas?

---

