---
title: "12.04 Gimp is version 2.8 but folder says 2.0"
date: 2012-07-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mychack on 2012-07-23
I'm trying to install the Save for Web plugin for Gimp, but when I go to /usr/share/gimp the next folder is 2.0... I initially installed 2.6, but just updated to 2.8. There isn't even a 'plugin' file in the folder. 

Any idea where the 2.8 folder is?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-07-23
Are you trying to follow a howto? If so, which one?

---

### Post by mychack on 2012-07-23
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Are you trying to follow a howto? If so, which one?

Yes. I found the folder (it was in the Home folder, not the usr folder-- I had hidden files hidden...).

I'm using this: [http://maketecheasier.com/upgrade-to-gimp-2-8-in-ubuntu/2012/05/04](http://maketecheasier.com/upgrade-to-gimp-2-8-in-ubuntu/2012/05/04)

I've run into a new problem: I get to "[B]cd /home/mychack/.gimp.2.8/plug-ins/gimp-save-for-web-0.29.3
./configure[/B]" in the terminal and it says no such file exists. It does exist, as I can see it here with my own eyes.

Please excuse these infantile questions... I just moved to Ubuntu yesterday after growing up with Windows.

Is there an easier way to install plug-ins for gimp?

---

### Post by Wirephire on 2012-07-23
Save for Web plugin is available in *gimp-plugin-registry* package which is also included in otto's ppa for 2.8. To install it use the command bellow:
```
sudo apt-get install gimp-plugin-registry
```
If you want to manually install it, you should create a folder called *plug-ins* in /usr/share/gimp/2.0 or install it for your user in ~/.gimp-2.8/plug-ins.


*~wph*

---

### Post by mychack on 2012-07-23
> **wirephire said:**
> Save for Web plugin is available in *gimp-plugin-registry* package which is also included in otto's ppa for 2.8. To install it use the command bellow:
```
sudo apt-get install gimp-plugin-registry
```
If you want to manually install it, you should create a folder called *plug-ins* in /usr/share/gimp/2.0 or install it for your user in ~/.gimp-2.8/plug-ins.


*~wph*

Well, that took care of it- easy enough.

thanks for the help!

---

