---
title: "16.04 after 1st update tries to boot UEFI before BIOS"
date: 2016-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-04-24
install as BIOS.  Win7 is also BIOS.

computer BIOS is set to boot to bios
I click on ubuntu in grub menu and it waits 28 sec, then beeps, and boots in 4 sec which is usual for this release.

I thought something might be up with update.  I have installed 4 times so far.


synopsis:
Installed as bios
Booted and started Ubuntu and restarted from Ubuntu.
Always about 4-8 secs.  tried it many times to be sure.

I then went to software updates in tools (forgive me, I'm in win and don't have the right names) and after clicking ubuntu in grub menu I get 28sec delay followed by beep(reboot) and quick boot to ubuntu.
many times shutdown or restart from Ubuntu is also slow.

Booboo in updates!  Fix please!

grrrrrrrrr

:D:

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-04-24
It almost sounds like you are booting in UEFI mode, it has to not find that, timeout and then revert to BIOS boot?
Is BIOS/CSM set as default in UEFI? 
If you upgrade UEFI, that resets everything to defaults and you have to change settings to BIOS boot first again.

       But may be best to see details:
Post the link to the Create BootInfo summary report. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-04-24
huge thanks for looking in.  Boot-info via Rescatux is at  paste.debian.net/440654/

In a quick look at it this novice saw no probs.
I said UEFI because once I caught the BIOS booting the sda in UEFI mode.  It did that itself.  I quickly changed it back.  I also did a clearcmos and set to "optimal" which is what I run at normally, but no change.

I also notice that having the Canon MG7520 printer plugged in made a difference. plugging a random card into it also made a difference.  it's looking, but for what.  Then it BEEPs I actually had to buy a 4pin 2 wire mini "speaker" for this mobo.  That tells me that it's starting BIOS, but why is it beeping after 28 sec, and then quickly 4 sec later, Ubuntu pops up.

I'm doing all this because I hosed the SDD and lost 14.04.3, but it wouldn't matter anyway (I had it on Clonezilla) as I now have a GTX 960 graphics card.  Don't even know if Wiley will support that, but I may try later.

Okay, off to boot 16.04 and play some more and see if I can make sense of it...


Linux/grub/latest grub customizer is on sda9

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-04-24
When I did update, I chose Additional Drivers and selected 361.42 figuring i would need it for my 960 card.  I changed back to the default x.org / nouveau and the problem went away.

Go figure.  Have no idea why, but seems to work fine though I only have FF and TBIRD up and running so far.

Thanks again for looking in!!!

---

