---
title: "8.04:  suddenly compiz, songbird (maybe more?) gone!?"
date: 2009-08-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aaronLund on 2009-08-12
OK, so this is weird.

Lemme backtrack......

I was using the latest/greatest Shiretoko (i.e.Firefox 3.5) release (what was it.....3.5.2 when I last checked?) and got into some weirdness with an update which resulted in me unchecking the nightly build of Shiretoko in my sources.list (I did this in the GUI).

After doing that, (or at least I _think_ that's what started this), after clicking on my Shiretoko panel-launcher, I'm presented with this error message:

```
Failed to execute child process "firefox" (No such file or directory)
```

Well, then I clicked on my "default", plain-old Firefox (3.0.x) panel-launcher and got the same message.

However, if I type "firefox-3.0" in a terminal I can use it.

So that begs the question, "Where did Shiretoko go?"  Did my unchecking of downloading the nightly build in my sources list uninstall it?

And if so, what's the deal with my "regular", old Firefox?  Why does that give me the error as well?  I'm gonna assume a corrupted profile, right?  Well then, why does this one work?

And what's weirder is the fact that I no longer have Compiz or Songbird installed.  WhereTF did they go?

Another mitigating factor in this (and I seriously doubt this has anything to do with it) is the fact that I installed gnump3 a few days ago.  And that seems to be working fine.

I'm perplexed.

---

### Post by TransitMan on 2009-08-12
Open Synaptic and do a search for Compiz, Songbird, Firefox and "Shiretoko".
Then re-install all those programs, except "Shiretoko". That should restore them for you.
As for unchecking the nightly builds for "Shiretoko", no it did not uninstall it. Nor do I have an answer as to why it and the other disappeared.

---

### Post by hazem.nabil on 2009-08-13
[SIZE=4]i can not find songbird in synaptic what can i do ??/
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by aaronLund on 2009-08-13
[http://www.getdeb.net/search.php?keywords=songbird](http://www.getdeb.net/search.php?keywords=songbird)

---

