---
title: "9.04 System Freezing"
date: 2009-10-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by duckytn on 2009-10-01
Good Morning,

I have been dealing with this issue since upgrading to 9.04 back in April. This problem did not exist in prior versions (back to Feisty Fawn). At least two or three times a day my system completely freezes up and requires a hard reboot. I am sure most of you can appreciate how frustrating this can be. I have been looking through the system logs and can not find any obvious culprits in pinning this down. Any suggesting on where I should start my search would be really appreciated. 

Specs:

Ubuntu 9.04
Kernel 2.6.28-15-generic
Proc Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 2.80GHz
2GB Memory
GeForce FX Go5600 video

Cheers!

duck

---

### Post by Gernot74 on 2009-10-01
Hi,

I have a similar problem. I think I was able to narrow it down to being related to heavy harddisk usage.

Maybe you can check if your freezes are related to writing / reading large amounts of data to/from your harddisk?

See my post here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1279738](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1279738)

Cheers,
Gernot

---

### Post by duckytn on 2009-10-01
> **Gernot74 said:**
> Hi,

I have a similar problem. I think I was able to narrow it down to being related to heavy harddisk usage.

Maybe you can check if your freezes are related to writing / reading large amounts of data to/from your harddisk?

See my post here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1279738](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1279738)

Cheers,
Gernot

Actually, I think you may be on to something. I do see a number of lines in the system messages log similar to this:

Oct  1 11:15:15 xxxx-laptop kernel: [  834.902426] ext4: find_group_flex failed, fallback succeeded dir 114765

I wonder if this is related to the ext4 filesystem...

---

### Post by Gernot74 on 2009-10-01
I use ext3 filesystem, so at least on my side ext4 as source of error is ruled out.

Why don't you try to stress your harddisk a bit with large file copying and see if that makes your system freeze?

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-10-01
Are you overclocking your CPU or RAM?

Have you run memtest86 from the Grub menu (for at least two hours)?

There are a LOT of people running 9.04 and freezing isn't an issue, except where dodgy hardware is involved.

If you have a Windows partition, it's Very Very Smart to download Prime95 and run the test mode. If you have *any* problems with the CPU or RAM, it will tell you all about it.

---

