---
title: "12.04 upgrade now probem with steam (wine?) video. please help"
date: 2012-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by userqq on 2012-05-09
Hi, just did the upgrade from oneric to precise and now when I open steam thru wine and try to play TFC the main selection screen (the guy firing a chaingun) comes up but none of the text selections (like check servers, quit etc)  are viewable. i can hear the usual clicks if I pass my mouse cursor over that area and it even sounds like I click on them but it's no use because I cant see anything that would come up. 
I didn't have this problem with oneric and actually think the problem is with wine. I kind of remember resetting "something' in wine settings (i think was in winetricks?) when I first installed steam but that was a long time ago.
Any help appreciated, i REALLY want to play TFC like usual...
thanks in advance.

EDIT: I found that if I open the wine configuration and under the tab 'GRAPHICS' if I check the box that says 'open a virtual desktop" then it is fine but the window is small. i raelly need full screen for gaming.
EDIT 2:Im pretty sure this problem concerns my video memory and wine, I am moving this question there as soon as I can find it.

---

### Post by iMurshaq on 2012-05-09
I've heard that running Steam on wine has been buggy on 12.04. You should probably move this to the Wine section.

---

### Post by userqq on 2012-05-09
thank you and maybe that will happen but i already posted it here and i just updated the request with an edit. maybe someone else will be able to help me without moving it (i dont even know how)
I will leave this request for help here for now and see if it is needed to move it first.
Thank you

---

### Post by userqq on 2012-05-09
I just moved this thread to wine [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11921471#post11921471](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11921471#post11921471) but dont know how do I delete it here.

---

