---
title: "8.10 does not boot correctly"
date: 2008-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pikabuntu on 2008-11-13
Whenever I try to boot from 8.10, the login screen shows up just fine.  But when I log in, only the mouse shows up on a black screen...  The live cd also does this.  This only happens with ibex, and the cd works fine with all of my other computers... any ideas :)

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-11-13
We need more information, what are your specs?

---

### Post by pikabuntu on 2008-11-13
[CENTER][SIZE=2]**Processor **[/SIZE][/CENTER]
                                         [LEFT][SIZE=2]3.07 gigahertz Intel Celeron
16             kilobyte primary memory cache
256 kilobyte secondary memory             cache[/SIZE][/LEFT]
                                         [CENTER][SIZE=2]**Drives**[/SIZE][/CENTER]
                                         [LEFT][SIZE=2]105.52 Gigabytes Usable Hard Drive             Capacity
31.62 Gigabytes Hard Drive Free Space

HL-DT-ST             RW/DVD GCC-4480B [CD-ROM drive]
Memorex DVD16+/-DL4RWlD2             [CD-ROM drive]

Generic USB CF Reader USB Device [Hard             drive] -- drive 2
Generic USB MS Reader USB Device [Hard drive]             -- drive 4
Generic USB SD Reader USB Device [Hard drive] --             drive 1
Generic USB SM Reader USB Device [Hard drive] -- drive             3
SAMSUNG SP1604N [Hard drive] (160.04 GB) -- drive 0, s/n             S013J20Y422229, rev TM100-24, [SMART]("http://www.belarc.com/smart.html")             Status: Healthy[/SIZE]


                                                                  [CENTER][SIZE=2]**System Model**[/SIZE][/CENTER]
                                         [LEFT][SIZE=2]HP Pavilion 061 PX743AA-ABA a1110n             0nx1211RE101GUPPY00
System Serial Number: CNH5190SJ1             NA530
Enclosure Type: Desktop[/SIZE][/LEFT]
                                         [CENTER][SIZE=2][B]Main Circuit Board 
[/B][/SIZE][/CENTER]
                                         [LEFT][SIZE=2]Board: ASUSTek Computer INC. Guppy             1.03
Bus Clock: 133 megahertz
BIOS: Phoenix Technologies,             LTD 3.07 04/22/2005[/SIZE][/LEFT]
                [/LEFT]

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-11-13
Boot into recovery mode from GRUB menu and at the prompt, reconfigure your X server.
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
sudo shutdown -r now
```
See if that gets you back up and running.

---

### Post by pikabuntu on 2008-11-13
this did not work, but the background is now tan instead of black.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-11-14
Try and see if you get different results with this command:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
I'm guessing this is an issue with the video card, but I'm really not sure. You can try reinstalling the Ubuntu desktop if the above command doesn't work, you can do that by doing the following:
```
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install ubuntu-desktop
```
I'd also try suggesting booting into recovery mode and see if you can actually login and look around and from there you can install your video card drivers from, System > Administration > Hardware Drivers. Then see if your card is listed. If it's listed pick the latest driver, which if you have a newer NVIDIA card it should be the 177 driver.

---

### Post by scootatheschool1990 on 2009-01-09
Ok I am new to Ubuntu,(you prob. haven't heard that before) but i boot up to Ubuntu 8.10. The black screen comes up and it starts to boot with all the text. after it is done, the courser comes up and it's just a black screen. i can move the mouse around but there's nothing to click on or log onto. how do i fix this? is there a possible way that i can log on a different way and still get to the ubunut GUI?

---

