---
title: "Wvdial works... Gnome-PPP won't..."
date: 2009-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by t0p on 2009-10-20
I'm using a cellphone as a modem, connected to my computer by USB data cable.  I use wvdial to make the connection, and it works fine, as you can see from the output reproduced below:

```
root@deimos:~# wvdial
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATDT*99#
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT*99#
CONNECT
~[7f]}#@!}!}!} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&y]6[dy~
--> Carrier detected.  Starting PPP immediately.
--> Starting pppd at Tue Oct 20 22:01:11 2009
--> Pid of pppd: 8334
--> Using interface ppp0
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> local  IP address 10.156.111.145
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> remote IP address 10.64.64.64
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> primary   DNS address 149.254.192.126
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 
--> secondary DNS address 149.254.201.126
--> pppd: &#65533;W&#65533; [18]a&#65533; 

```Obviously, wvdialconf worked when I configured wvdial to use the phone - it was detected at /dev/tty/ACM0.

I've been having problems with intermittent disconnection.  [A thread on another forum]("http://linuxgazette.net/165/misc/lg/erratically_dying_pppd.html") suggested using pppd in debug mode to track down the cause.  I've been having trouble getting my head around the correct syntax for pppd, so I decided to try Gnome-PPP and see if that might help.

Thing is, Gnome-PPP doesn't detect the cellphone.  Which baffles me, as Gnome-PPP uses wvdial.  And if I type /dev/tty/ACM0 in myself and click Connect, it doesn't connect and the connection log says this:

```
-> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot open /dev/tty/ACM0: Not a directory
--> Cannot open /dev/tty/ACM0: Not a directory
--> Cannot open /dev/tty/ACM0: Not a directory

```I've tried altering settings, like USB Modem, ISDN Modem, Analog Modem; none of it does the slightest good.

Can anyone help me with this weirdness?

---

### Post by niteshifter on 2009-10-20
Hi,

I'm 99 and 44/100 percent certain that /dev/tty/ACM0 is wrong. Try entering /dev/ttyACM0 (as a USB modem) into Gnome-PPP's config dialog and see what happens.

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-10-23
> **niteshifter said:**
> Hi,

I'm 99 and 44/100 percent certain that /dev/tty/ACM0 is wrong. Try entering /dev/ttyACM0 (as a USB modem) into Gnome-PPP's config dialog and see what happens.

Hmm. You were right, it *is* supposed to be /dev/ttyACM0.  But that didn't fix it anyway.  I'm talking about my Jaunty computer.  I also have a Hardy computer, and Gnome-PPP works okay on that.  It detected the phone just fine - as I would expect, as wvdialconf also detects it fine and wvdial works okay.

But wvdial and wvdialconf work on the Jaunty computer too.  But not Gnome-PPP.

Ah well, it doesn't really matter.  The Hardy box will suffice for my purposes.

Now: is there a way to put Gnome-PPP in debug mode, so I can investigate why my connection cuts intermittently?  This is why I'm doing all this.  Or if that's not possible how can I extract the call scripts that Gnome-PPP is using?  So I can maybe run command-line ppp in debug mode?

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-10-23
Hi **t0p**, I am not sure if I can help you, but tried some ideas and below are my tips:

At **Jaunty** you can try NetworkManager in **debug** mode (--no-daemon) to determine the **pppd** string command: ```
sudo killall NetworkManager
sudo NetworkManager --no-daemon

```

If you find some parameters for **pppd** add parameter **debug**, for example (see also the link on my signature): ```
sudo pppd ttyUSB0 460800 debug nodetach defaultroute noipdefault ...
```

Setting **gnome-ppp** take care:
>>> set **APN** at init3 (as /etc/wvdial.conf)
>>> set '**stupid mode**' at Setup > Options
>>> check **syslog** from System > Administration > log File Viewer
>>> possibly remove 'offline mode' into Firefox (Alt-F W)

I used **sudo gnome-ppp** to run it.

Check of **syslog** works also for wvdial but it is copied already at terminal.

Final idea which cannot done from me is to turn on debug mode of pppd while running (already connected). This will give you debug output (to a file?) regardless of what was the program that started **pppd**. From **man pppd**:> **SIGUSR1** This signal toggles the state of the debug option.

Regards,
George

P.S. read also [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8115225&postcount=25](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8115225&postcount=25)

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-10-23
Thanks GeorgeVita.  I'll try all that a bit later, when I'm at the computer in question.

One thing I don't understand is the stuff about pppd and SIGUSR.  I've never been too hot at manpage comprehension, they're so dry!   Can you explain a bit more how I get pppd to debug?

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-10-24
> **t0p said:**
> Thanks GeorgeVita.  I'll try all that a bit later, when I'm at the computer in question.

One thing I don't understand is the stuff about pppd and SIGUSR.  I've never been too hot at manpage comprehension, they're so dry!   Can you explain a bit more how I get pppd to debug?

When you know the full pppd command to connect, just add the parameter word **debug** OR as the 'man pppd' states (I do not know how to make it) you can set the SIGUSR1 signal. I tried some commands but disconnected ...

I managed to get the command by 'debugging' network manager.

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-11-16
Okay, for ages Gnome-PPP wouldn't connect.  It just froze, and I'd have to click the corner X button, then tell the "application not responding" dialogue to quit it.

Then I managed to click the "Log" button before it froze, and got to see that it was stopping because of a permissions issue.  Once I saw that, the rest was easy:  hit Alt+F2, type in "gksudo gnome-ppp" and it works fine.

So, I can run Gnome-PPP in Jaunty by running it as root.  Which is weird, cos in Hardy I just need to click Gnome-PPP to make it connect.  Anyone got any idea why this should be?

Oh, and can anyone suggest how I can fix this so I don't have to run Gnome-PPP as root?  I'd like to be able to connect to the internet by just clicking a launcher, rather than having to type in my password all the time.  I can do that in Hardy...

**EDIT:** Looking at the (regular, non-root) Gnome-PPP log:

```
--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATX3
ATX3
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT*99#
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT*99#
CONNECT
~[7f]}#@!}!}!} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eY})3~
--> Carrier detected.  Starting PPP immediately.
--> Unable to run /usr/sbin/pppd.
--> Check permissions, or specify a "PPPD Path" option in wvdial.conf.
~[7f]}#@!}!}"} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eYC!~~[7f]}#@!}!}#} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eY
(~~[7f]}#@!}!}$} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eYF
~~[7f]}#@!}!}%} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eY}/}$~~[7f]}#@!}!}&} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eYE[16]~~[7f]}#@!}!}'} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eY[0c]}?~~[7f]}#@!}!}(} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eYLT~~[7f]}#@!}!})} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eY}%]~~[7f]}#@!}!}*} }8}#}$@#}(}"}'}"}"}&} } } } }%}&}> eYOO~
NO CARRIER
--> No Carrier!  Trying again.
--> Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
--> Disconnecting at Mon Nov 16 19:46:42 2009
```

I think this is the relevant part:

```
--> Unable to run /usr/sbin/pppd.
--> Check permissions, or specify a "PPPD Path" option in wvdial.conf.
```

Well, pppd is located at /usr/sbin/pppd, so I don't think there's any point setting a "PPPD Path" option in wvdial.conf.  I looked at the permissions for pppd:

```
t0p@deimos:~$ ls -l /usr/sbin/pppd
-rwxr-xr-- 1 root dip 277352 2009-02-20 17:25 /usr/sbin/pppd
```

I saw it was set for user "root" and group "dip".  But I looked at System > Administration > Users & Groups and noticed there wasn't a group "dip" listed.  So I created group "dip", and added myself and root to it.  But that didn't seem to make much difference.  Gnome-PPP (non-root) still freezes, and those lines about permissions still appear in the log even though I am now a member of the group "dip".

I don't know what else to do.  The only thing I can think of is to change the permissions for /usr/sbin/pppd.  But that wouldn't be a good idea, would it?

Anyone help?

---

### Post by niteshifter on 2009-11-16
Hi,

Don't change permissions on pppd!

Try this: Edit sudoers (via visudo) and put this:
```
# for gksu gnome-ppp, no password
%dialout ALL=(root) NOPASSWD:/usr/bin/gnome-ppp

```
at the bottom. The user needs to be a member of the dialout group. Check for that by logging the user in, open a terminal and do:
```
groups
```
A list of groups is returned, the word dialout needs to be there. If it's not add the user to the dialout group:
```
sudo adduser *user-id* dialout
```
where *user-id* is the login user ID.

You'll still have to launch gnome-ppp with
```
gksu gnome-ppp
```
but it won't pop the password dialog. Just edit the gnome-ppp launcher properties. This way, gnome-ppp will run as root, which lets wvidal have root perms, which let's it access the chat and ppp scripts and run pppd as root.

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-11-23
Thanks niteshifter!  That visudo edit sorted my problem wonderfully!

---

