---
title: "dual monitor help"
date: 2008-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by n0greenfx on 2008-01-11
ok i have a nvidia geforece 2 mx\400 mx\400 pcie graphics card and and on board card. i have a monitor plugged into both and in my bios the setting for primary video is pci. the screen shot below are how i set up my monitors...but when i restart it disables the second monitor which is plugged into my on board gpu even when i set my bios to onboard as the primary gpu.

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-01-11
I recall from my Fedora days (about a year ago) that nvidia has a nice GUI configuration tool for its cards that will autodetect attached monitors and write an appropriate xorg.conf for them.  I think that the program was called 'nvidia-settings' ; try typing that in a terminal.  If that doesn't work just type nvid and press tab to see if anything interesting comes up.  I think that the program was also accessible in the Applications>>System Tools menu.  If you can get it to work, I always had great success with it; it's very intuitive and you can apply most changes without having to restart X.

If you can't get that to work, post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by n0greenfx on 2008-01-11
ok those didt work i think or idk wat to do in the nvidia-settings pane i only see one monitor to be able to setup here is my xorg file tho



# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1024x768"
	Horizsync	31.5-48.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0	-	65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1024	768
		Modes		"1024x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" #  
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" #  
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-01-12
Yeah, your xorg.conf is not set up for dual monitors.  It should have two sections for "device" and two for "screen," I think, since you have two graphics cards and two screens.

If you want to try to figure out how to get the proper configuration by hand, take a look at these pages: [http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Dual_Monitors](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Dual_Monitors) [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/dual-monitors-with-nvidia.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/dual-monitors-with-nvidia.html)

and the xorg.conf manual, [http://www.x.org/archive/X11R6.8.0/doc/xorg.conf.5.html](http://www.x.org/archive/X11R6.8.0/doc/xorg.conf.5.html) 

If you're not comfortable doing it by hand (it's not easy if you've never done it before, but it can be done, and those guides I gave above are good), keep trying the nvidia-settings thing, I remember that it had a button that you could press for it to autodetect connected screens, and it worked well for me (with a TV and CRT monitor connected to one card).  Another strategy might be to get a live CD from another distribution, like Fedora, and pop it in to see if you can use the X configuration GUI in that to get the setup you need.  If you can, just save the xorg.conf file from the live CD somewhere and then copy it onto your system.

Also, if you're going to play around with the X configuration, I would highly recommend making a backup of your xorg.conf file and saving it somewhere like your user's desktop, so that if you screw things up and can't get X started again, you can go back to the original configuration (from the command line, just type

```
sudo cp /home/your-user-name/Desktop/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

If you have any other questions, post

---

### Post by n0greenfx on 2008-01-13
i dont actually have two cards i have one nvidia pcie card and on onboard gpu. how can i make sure linux is detecting my onboard gpu?

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-01-13
Sorry, I was thinking you had two twin nvidia cards.  That's probably why the nvidia-settings won't work.

In any case, you will still need a separate section for both your pcie card and your onboard device in xorg.conf.  Again, take a look at this page: [http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Dual_Monitors#Setting_up_Two_Graphics_Cards](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Dual_Monitors#Setting_up_Two_Graphics_Cards) .  Some of that tutorial (like the X -configure stuff) is Gentoo-specific, but xorg.conf itself is exactly the same across different distributions.  Basically what you need to get is an xorg.conf similar to the one on that page, with these parts in particular (in addition to all the other stuff):

```
...
Section "Monitor"
  Identifier   "NECMonitor"
...
Section "Monitor"
  Identifier   "VSMonitor"
...
Section "Device"
  Identifier  "NvidiaCard"
  Driver      "nvidia"
...
Section "Device"
  Identifier  "AtiCard"
  Driver      "ati"
...
Section "Screen"
  Identifier   "LeftScreen"
  Device       "NvidiaCard"
  Monitor      "NecMonitor"
  DefaultDepth 24
...
Section "Screen"
  Identifier   "RightScreen"
  Device       "AtiCard"
  Monitor      "VSMonitor"
  DefaultDepth 24

```

where there are two sections each for Monitor, Device and Screen.  Don't just copy the stuff above; you will need the right specifications for your two cards and monitors.  The nvidia parts above should work for you, but I would need to know what kind of card your onboard gpu is to know what to write for it.

You could also try using the Ubuntu GUI X configuration tool again, and repost pictures from all of the screens (one of the ones you posted before was corrupted).  It's clear from your xorg.conf that it didn't even try to write a dual monitor setup, so maybe it's just a matter of applying the settings or something to get it to work.

---

### Post by n0greenfx on 2008-01-13
does this help at all i got this through mandrake??  the ones highlighted in red i believe are the two cards?



[god@localhost ~]$ lspcidrake -v
Card:S3 [COLOR="Red"]UniChrome-based cards with 3D support: VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT8378 [KM400/A] Chipset Host Bridge [BRIDGE_HOST] (vendor:1106 device:3205 subv:1043 subd:8118)[/COLOR]
shpchp : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT8237 PCI Bridge [BRIDGE_PCI] (vendor:1106 device:b198)
unknown : Agere Systems|V.92 56K WinModem [COMMUNICATION_OTHER] (vendor:11c1 device:048c subv:11c1 subd:044c)
ohci1394 : VIA Technologies, Inc.|IEEE 1394 Host Controller [SERIAL_FIREWIRE] (vendor:1106 device:3044 subv:1043 subd:808a)
sata_via : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VIA VT6420 SATA RAID Controller [STORAGE_IDE] (vendor:1106 device:3149 subv:1043 subd:80ed)
via82cxxx : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE [STORAGE_IDE] (vendor:1106 device:0571 subv:1043 subd:80ed)
uhci_hcd : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller [SERIAL_USB] (vendor:1106 device:3038 subv:1043 subd:80ed)
uhci_hcd : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller [SERIAL_USB] (vendor:1106 device:3038 subv:1043 subd:80ed)
uhci_hcd : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller [SERIAL_USB] (vendor:1106 device:3038 subv:1043 subd:80ed)
uhci_hcd : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller [SERIAL_USB] (vendor:1106 device:3038 subv:1043 subd:80ed)
ehci_hcd : VIA Technologies, Inc.|USB 2.0 [SERIAL_USB] (vendor:1106 device:3104 subv:1043 subd:80ed)
i2c_viapro : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT8237 ISA bridge [KT600/K8T800/K8T890 South] [BRIDGE_ISA] (vendor:1106 device:3227 subv:1043 subd:80ed)
snd_via82xx : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller [MULTIMEDIA_AUDIO] (vendor:1106 device:3059 subv:1043 subd:810a)
slamr : VIA Technologies, Inc.|AC'97 Modem Controller [COMMUNICATION_OTHER] (vendor:1106 device:3068)
via_rhine : VIA Technologies, Inc.|VT6102 [Rhine-II] [NETWORK_ETHERNET] (vendor:1106 device:3065 subv:1043 subd:80ff)
Card[COLOR="Red"]:NVIDIA GeForce 3 - GeForce 4 (96xx): nVidia Corporation|NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] [DISPLAY_VGA] (vendor:10de device:0110)[/COLOR]
hub : Linux 2.6.22.9-desktop586-1mdv uhci_hcd|UHCI Host Controller [Hub|Unused|Full speed (or root) hub] (vendor:0000 device:0000)
hub : Linux 2.6.22.9-desktop586-1mdv uhci_hcd|UHCI Host Controller [Hub|Unused|Full speed (or root) hub] (vendor:0000 device:0000)
usbhid : Primax Electronics|Dynex Wireless Optical Mouse [Human Interface Devices|Boot Interface Subclass|Mouse] (vendor:0461 device:4d41)
hub : Linux 2.6.22.9-desktop586-1mdv uhci_hcd|UHCI Host Controller [Hub|Unused|Full speed (or root) hub] (vendor:0000 device:0000)
hub : Linux 2.6.22.9-desktop586-1mdv ehci_hcd|EHCI Host Controller [Hub|Unused|Full speed (or root) hub] (vendor:0000 device:0000)
zd1211rw : Belkin|USB2.0 WLAN (vendor:050d device:705c)
hub : Linux 2.6.22.9-desktop586-1mdv uhci_hcd|UHCI Host Controller [Hub|Unused|Full speed (or root) hub] (vendor:0000 device:0000)
[god@localhost ~]$

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-01-14
That information from Mandrake is exactly what you needed.  Your onboard card is apparently a Via chip.  In principle, the xorg.conf file that I posted below should work for you, although I doubt it will work the first time, so you'll need to do some troubleshooting.  But basically I think that it contains what it needs to, WITH THESE IMPORTANT EXCEPTIONS:

1. you need to find out what the PCI bus ID of your Via card is.  You can do this with the lspci command: in a terminal, type lspci, and find the line pertaining to your Via card.  That line will start with some numbers like 00:00.0 or 00:02.0.  These indicate the PCI bus assigned to the device.  You have to change the line marked "Busid" in the "Device" section for the via card (and only for the via card; leave the nvidia one as it is) so that it has the appropriate ID.  If lspci gives a bus ID of 00:02.0, change the "Busid" line for via to 0:2:0; if lspci says it's 00:03.0, change Busid to 0:3:0 and so on.

2. Unless the two monitors that you are using are identical, you will need to change the "Monitor" section for the second monitor (the one labeled "monitor-attached-to-via).  This is really important, because there's a risk that your monitor could be physically damaged if you try to force it to use values that it wasn't designed for.  If you want, you could just try it with the values in the file now and see what happens; I think that X is smart enough to default to generic values if it thinks that the monitor can't handle the values in xorg.conf, but do that at your own risk.  A safer method would be to just swap monitors (that is, attach the one that's currently hooked up to your onboard card to the nvidia card) and then pop in your Ubuntu live CD.  After it's booted, type "gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf" in a terminal, and look at the "Monitor" section, which will have the right values for your monitor.  Copy these into the xorg.conf file on your harddrive (you could just write the correct values on a piece of paper or whatever, or you could save the xorg.conf file from the live CD session to a USB drive or something like that and then copy and paste).  You should be able to just copy and paste the whole Monitor section, with the exception of the "Identifier" line, which should be left as it is in the file I wrote ("Monitor-attached-to-via").

And as I said in an earlier post, make sure you backup your current xorg.conf file before screwing around with it...chances are that it won't work the first or second times, and you'll end up at the command line unable to get X to start.

Keep posting if you have trouble.

Here's what I think your xorg.conf should be.  I commented out some parts that I don't think are necessary.

```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "nvidiacard"
#Boardname "vesa"
Busid "PCI:1:0:0"
Driver "nvidia"
#Screen 0
Option "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "viacard"
#Boardname "vesa"
Busid "PCI:1:0:0"  ###THIS NEEDS TO BE CHANGED TO THE RIGHT VALUE
Driver "via"
#Screen 0
#Option "AddARGBVisuals" "True"   ###THINK THESE LINES ONLY APPLY TO NVIDIA CARDS
#Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
#Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor-attached-to-nvidia"
Vendorname "Generic LCD Display"
Modelname "LCD Panel 1024x768"
Horizsync 31.5-48.0
Vertrefresh 56.0 - 65.0
modeline "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
modeline "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
modeline "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
modeline "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
Gamma 1.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor-attached-to-via"  #####MAKE SURE THESE ARE RIGHT FOR YOUR MONITOR...OR ELSE IT COULD BE DAMAGED####
Vendorname "Generic LCD Display"
Modelname "LCD Panel 1024x768"
Horizsync 31.5-48.0
Vertrefresh 56.0 - 65.0
modeline "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
modeline "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
modeline "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
modeline "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
Gamma 1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen-for-nvidia"
Device "nvidiacard"
Monitor "Monitor-attached-to-nvidia"
Defaultdepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Virtual 1024 768
Modes "1024x768@60" "800x600@60" "800x600@56" "640x480@60"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen-for-via"
Device "viacard"
Monitor "Monitor-attached-to-via"
Defaultdepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Virtual 1024 768
Modes "1024x768@60" "800x600@60" "800x600@56" "640x480@60"
EndSubSection
EndSection

#Section "ServerLayout"
#Identifier "Default Layout"
#screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
#Inputdevice "Generic Keyboard"
#Inputdevice "Configured Mouse"
#EndSection
#Section "device" #
#Identifier "device1"
#Boardname "vesa"
#Busid "PCI:1:0:0"
#Driver "vesa"
#Screen 1
#EndSection
#Section "screen" #
#Identifier "screen1"
#Device "device1"
#Defaultdepth 24
#Monitor "monitor1"
#EndSection
#Section "monitor" 
#Identifier "monitor1"
#Gamma 1.0
#EndSection
#Section "ServerFlags"
#EndSection
```

---

### Post by n0greenfx on 2008-01-17
```
To run a command as administrator (user "root"), use "sudo <command>".
See "man sudo_root" for details.

karl@karl-desktop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [KM400/A] Chipset Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 PCI Bridge
00:0a.0 Communication controller: Agere Systems V.92 56K WinModem (rev 03)
00:0b.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): VIA Technologies, Inc. IEEE 1394 Host Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.0 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VIA VT6420 SATA RAID Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 86)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 ISA bridge [KT600/K8T800/K8T890 South]
00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 60)
00:11.6 Communication controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 80)
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 78)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] (rev b2)
karl@karl-desktop:~$ 

```


thats what i got i dont see the graphics chip

---

### Post by n0greenfx on 2008-01-17
i dont think ubuntu is seeing my onboard chip idk tho mabey im wrong but if i found it mandrake i should see it in ubuntu right????

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-01-17
You're right, it seems that there's a bug in Ubuntu where it won't detect VIA graphics cards, which precisely explains your problem.  The bug appears especially bad on 64-bit systems, in case you have one.  See these links for instance: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-via/+bug/66803](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-via/+bug/66803) [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/14542](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/14542) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=280811](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=280811)

From the quick research I did, it looks like you should still be able to get your VIA device to work using the vesa driver.  It might not support compiz or high screen resolutions though.  If you want to try it, you should be able to just replace "via" in the xorg.conf file I posted with "vesa" on the "Driver" line of the "Device" section for your onboard card.

There might be other solutions to this lack of VIA support in Ubuntu if you google around or search the forums.  I don't have a VIA video card so I can't really be of any help on that issue.  I did have a VIA card once in an older machine and it worked fine in Feisty.  Maybe your card is newer and is not yet supported by the existing drivers?

And I have no idea why the VIA card would be detected on Mandriva but not Ubuntu.  I would guess that maybe it has to do with proprietary restrictions or something, since Mandriva makes less of a fuss about including non-free software than Ubuntu.  But Gusty (assuming that's what you're using) is supposed to include all of the non-free modules you would need in most situations, so I don't know...

Anyway, I can continue to help you with the xorg.conf stuff at least, if you have problems.

---

### Post by n0greenfx on 2008-01-17
but we still have no way of knowing what the via cards busid is

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-01-17
If you found the right driver for it it would show up in lspci.

Or, since Mandriva recognizes the card, you should be able to open a terminal there, type lspci and find the busid.

---

### Post by marco75 on 2008-01-18
* My situation

On bootup, both screens are in clone display mode. The graphical ubuntu with progress bar appears; However, as soon as it gets to the login screen, the TV displays blinking garbage, like the video RAM was faulty. The VGA works normally.

* My hardware:

MOBO	Intel DG965WH 

CPU	Intel Core 2 Duo E6320

RAM	1 GB DDR2-667 PC2-5300

GPU	Asus EN7600GS

CDD	Lite-On DVDRW LH-18A1P

CASE	Silverstone LC17

TV	Hauppauge PVR-500 MCE OEM

SPU	on-board; ("SigmaTel STAC9271D audio codec" --from the manual)

HDD	320 GB WD3200YS

PSU	Zalman ZM460B-APS

SCREEN1  Standard analog VGA (works)
SCREEN2  Conia TV

* Software:

Ubuntu amd64 7.04 (Feisty Fawn)

* I have tried nvidia-settings as both root and regular user, and it only allows to choose options relating to itself, i.e.:

nvidia-settings Configuration

[x] Enable ToolTips
[x] Display Status Bar
[x] Slider Text Entries
[ ] Include X Display Names in the Config File
[x] Show "Really Quit?" Dialog

The terminal window shows the following output:

$ nvidia-settings

ERROR: NV-CONTROL extension not found on this Display.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA GPUs on ':0.0'.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA Frame Lock Devices on ':0.0'.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA VCSCs on ':0.0'.

* The nvid command is not found

* N0greenfx, Where do I find the Screen and Graphics preferences dialog? I only have System > Preferences > Screen Resolution. What version of Ubuntu are you using?

Thanks for taking the time to read this.

Let me know if I should post my /etc/X11/xorg.conf here.

Marco

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-01-18
take a look at the documentation here [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaTVOut](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaTVOut) .  Changing some of the values in xorg.conf might help.  Otherwise search the forums more or try Google; there are various guides to getting a TV to work out of an nvidia card.

Another possibility is to change the settings in the "Monitor" section for your TV; maybe it's being sent a signal that it can't handle.

If you still can't figure it out after doing more research, you're best off making a new thread about it so that you'll get more attention.  And be sure to post xorg.conf there.

---

### Post by marco75 on 2008-01-21
Thanks for your reply, I will create a new thread for TV-out.

---

