---
title: "Parser error in /etc/sudoers [Resolved]"
date: 2007-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by psychomonkey on 2007-05-23
Trying to see if anyone can help.

I'm running Kubuntu 7.04 and I just installed Smb4k via apt-get. I am now getting this error whenever I run sudo apt-get:

[COLOR="Red"]sudo: unknown defaults entry `lectu' referenced near line 14
>>> sudoers file: syntax error, line 15 <<<
sudo: parse error in /etc/sudoers near line 13
[/COLOR]
If I type *su* to switch to root, I can run apt-get just fine. This only seems to happen when I try to use *sudo*.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by aidanr on 2007-05-23
can you post the output of 
```
ls -l /etc/sudoers
```
and post the contents of /etc/sudoers
```
sudo kate /etc/sudoers
```

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-05-24
Oh, please don't **ever** do *sudo kate*. More details on why:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo)

The proper way to edit the /etc/sudoers file is ```
sudo visudo
``` If you must use Kate, the proper command would be ```
kdesu kate /etc/sudoers
``` Of course, if the /etc/sudoers file is corrupted, it's unlikely that *sudo visudo* or *kdesu kate* will work. You'll have to boot into recovery mode to do it. More details on that here:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/sudo](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/sudo)

---

### Post by aidanr on 2007-05-24
he's not editing it just yet, just opening it up to copy/paste the contents

but yes kdesu would be a little safer
#-o of course that's totally stupid because sudo's messed up to begin with :lol:

so:
su
kate /etc/sudoers

---

### Post by psychomonkey on 2007-05-24
> can you post the output of 
```
ls -l /etc/sudoers
```

-r--r----- 1 root root 739 2007-05-23 22:21 /etc/sudoers

> and post the contents of /etc/sudoers
```
sudo kate /etc/sudoers
```

# /etc/sudoers
#
# This file MUST be edited with the 'visudo' command as root.
#
# See the man page for details on how to write a sudoers file.
# Host alias specification

# User alias specification

# Cmnd alias specification

# Defaults

Defaults	!lectu
re,tty_tickets,!fqdn

# User privilege specification
root	ALL=(ALL) ALL


# Members of the admin group may gain root privileges
%admin ALL=(ALL) ALL

# Entries for Smb4K users.
# Generated by Smb4K. Please do not modify!
User_Alias	SMB4KUSERS = jason
Defaults:SMB4KUSERS	env_keep="PASSWD USER"
SMB4KUSERS	blackbox = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/smb4k_kill
SMB4KUSERS	blackbox = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/smb4k_umount
SMB4KUSERS	blackbox = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/smb4k_mount
# End of Smb4K user entries.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-05-24
It looks as if you have an extra carriage return there: ```
Defaults !lectu
re,tty_tickets,!fqdn
``` instead of ```
Defaults !lecture,tty_tickets,!fqdn
```

---

### Post by aidanr on 2007-05-24
> **psychomonkey said:**
> 
Defaults	!lectu
re,tty_tickets,!fqdn

should be on one line like so:
```
Defaults	!lecture,tty_tickets,!fqdn
```
edit it with visudo
edit:// aysiu beat me to it

---

### Post by psychomonkey on 2007-05-24
That's it! You guys are genius.

Thanks a bunch.

---

