---
title: "Get Ubuntu to boot first"
date: 2011-04-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aviator1 on 2011-04-16
Hello All:

I know this has been asked, but I can't seem to figure out which answer will work for me.

I'm not a programmer. I am an experienced computer user, and have been using 10.04 for about 6 months.

I rarely use my Vista OS, and have to sit with my computer as it boots up, so I can select Ubuntu during the process.

Vista was on the machine when I installed 10.04, but I would really like it (10.04) to boot first.

Is there anyone who can explain this to me in English?

Thanks for any help.

Dave

---

### Post by oklokl on 2011-04-16
[http://noneway.tistory.com/37](http://noneway.tistory.com/37)

Korea Language
 Your questions
 Correct answer?
 If not ... Sorry

and..
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1549847](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1549847) 
Tip Grub 2 boot setting..

gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg
sudo update-grub

---

### Post by spcwingo on 2011-04-16
Q:  How did you install Ubuntu?  Through WUBI or is this a normal install?

As far as editing grub.cfg directly I personally wouldn't do that.  Hence the warning at the beginning of the file:

> #
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

Instead, I would do as suggested and edit /etc/default/grub.  If I recall correctly, a WUBI install will not have GRUB installed.  Instead it used the Windows loader for booting.  As far as editing it to get Ubuntu to boot first...I have no idea (I personally ditched Windows around 2006).  :)

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-04-16
> **aviator1 said:**
> Hello All:

I know this has been asked, but I can't seem to figure out which answer will work for me.

I'm not a programmer. I am an experienced computer user, and have been using 10.04 for about 6 months.

I rarely use my Vista OS, and have to sit with my computer as it boots up, so I can select Ubuntu during the process.

Vista was on the machine when I installed 10.04, but I would really like it (10.04) to boot first.

Is there anyone who can explain this to me in English?

Thanks for any help.

Dave
If you installed with Wubi (it sounds like it) then the first screen you see is the Windows boot manager, with Windows Vista and Ubuntu. The second screen is the grub menu.

You cannot bypass the Windows boot manager, and shouldn't try. You can set it to default to Ubuntu though, but you'll still have two menus to go through. There isn't any getting around that.

If you are using Ubuntu almost exclusively then Wubi isn't the best choice - you can either migrate to a partition ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354)) or do a fresh dual-boot install. 

To change the default choice in Windows Boot manager:
Right-click on Computer,
Properties,
Advanced,
Startup & recovery settings
Select UBuntu from drop down box
DO NOT set the timeout to zero. This will prevent Windows from booting.

---

### Post by scott-ian on 2011-04-16
> **spcwingo said:**
> If I recall correctly, a WUBI install will not have GRUB installed.  Instead it used the Windows loader for booting.
Yes, and no.  WUBI does use the Windows boot loader, then the windows boot loader accesses GRUB.

---

