---
title: "4.1 channel soundcard problem, please help.."
date: 2007-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sunshine12 on 2007-07-27
I am having CMI8738 Soundcard from c-media electronics. This is 4 channel soundcard.
Using 4.1 channel speakers (4 satellite speakers, and a subwoofer) with that.

Soundcard detected by Ubuntu and sound is working but the problem is not working as it should.

There isn't different output from 4 channels, they seems to work simultaneously. When tried one demo then Front Left is heard from both Left side speakers (front left and rear left) , Same with the right side.. and Rear left with both the left and Rear right with both the right side speakers.
like..

Front left :  front left & rear left
Front right: front ritht $ rear right
Rear left:   front left & rear left
Rear right: front ritht $ rear right

It should be from the concerned speaker.


Was worked fine with XP, when no driver detected but installed by driver cd. The demo came with it (.exe) to check the position and output from each speaker. And also sound control for all four channels.

What should I do to correct this problem?

I marked 4 channel mode in sound preferences, but it doesn't help.

Please somebody suggest something to rectify it.
and also suggest some audio test or something to test the device.
I am afraid that if it won't work than I have to switch back to XP. I need to have the surround sound effect with my DVDs. 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by sunshine12 on 2007-07-27
anyone please can help me with this..

some command line test only plays sound from my front speakers, not from rear speakers

Waiting for reply, Thanks

---

### Post by sunshine12 on 2007-07-28
somebody please help to solve it... 
thanks

---

### Post by sunshine12 on 2007-07-29
It seems that there isn't any solution.. 
Please someone help to rectify this problem

---

### Post by sunshine12 on 2007-07-29
Ok, I have messed up the things..
I have edited the .asoundrc file in the home directory and added some lines in that file, suggested by some sites, and now no sound heard.
Then I have removed that text lines from .asoundrc..... and still there is no sound..


Please help........ what should I do now??

---

### Post by sunshine12 on 2007-08-03
somewhat solved the problem and able to get back the sound..

but still not separate sound from all speakers... as it should in 4.1 channel mode..

---

### Post by JerMe on 2007-08-05
This might help:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3129067&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3129067&postcount=5)

---

### Post by sunshine12 on 2007-08-07
tested it but can hear the sound from the front let and front right.. 
no sound from rear speakers....

---

