---
title: "8.10 Packages"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by darksoul7 on 2008-10-31
Hi guys, 

So I've been trying to figure out where some of the apps I used disappeared to. 

In any case, are the repositories not fully updated? Are some programs like Ragnarok not compatible with Ubuntu 8.10? 

To packages I installed in 8.04 were the following:
acroread
audacity
bluefish
exfalso
exrtools
ffmpeg
ffmpeg2theora
firestarter
flac
flashplugin-nonfree
galeon
gftp
gnash
gnome-bluetooth
gtk-recordmydesktop
iriverter
libaspell-dev
liblame0
liblame-dev
libmad0
libmad0-dev
openexr
libopenexr2ldbl
libopenexr-dev
libdvdcss2
mencoder
mozilla-acroread
mozilla-mplayer
pdfedit
pptview
ragnarok
scribus
streamripper
streamtuner
thoggen
ubuntu-restricted-extras
w32codecs
wine
xmms2
xmms2-plugin-all

Looking forward to your responses :)

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-10-31
You may need to update your medibuntu repostitory listing and security key for apps such as acroread:
```
sudo wget http://www.medibuntu.org/sources.list.d/intrepid.list --output-document=/etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install medibuntu-keyring && sudo apt-get update
```

For others, make sure you have the multiverse and universe repositories enabled, as well as any third-party ones you may have previously used.

---

### Post by darksoul7 on 2008-11-01
I'll give that a try! Thank you!

---

### Post by navneeth on 2008-11-03
Hi, my pdf files won't open with Acrobat Reader. "acroread" doesn't work. Also, I did not install medibuntu in 8.04 or 8.10.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-11-03
> **navneeth said:**
> Hi, my pdf files won't open with Acrobat Reader. "acroread" doesn't work. Also, I did not install medibuntu in 8.04 or 8.10.

I can't tell if you have the latest version of acroread. If you want it, add the medibuntu repostitory, update your lists, and then install acroread.

Intrepid Medibuntu
```
sudo wget http://www.medibuntu.org/sources.list.d/intrepid.list --output-document=/etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install medibuntu-keyring && sudo apt-get update
```

Update databases:
```

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade

```

If acroread is no longer installed on your system, install it with:
```

sudo apt-get install acroread

```

---

### Post by navneeth on 2008-11-03
Thanks for the reply, drs305. I wasn't even able to find Acrobat Reader installed in the computer. I decided to install it using the deb package from Adobe's website. It worked.

---

