---
title: "18.04 Upgrading Problem from 17.10 when booting"
date: 2018-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ericknyoto on 2018-05-03
Hi there,
[COLOR=#2A2E2E][FONT=&amp]Sorry for my bad english.
I've upgraded to 18.04 from 17.10. The upgrading process runs smoothly without any errors. And then I restart my notebook. **After that, when booting The screen is stuck at random point (sometimes when started gnome display manager, and sometimes others) and flickering off and on**. I suspect that this has got to do with the GDM (gnome display manager), and then I went to recovery mode, and install lightdm, change the default display manager to lightdm.  It worked until the login screen.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#2A2E2E][FONT=&amp]I choose Unity type my password press enter, but throw me back the login screen. I tried with Ubuntu (Gdm), throw me back to login screen. After that I tried to install XFCE,
At the login screen, I choose xfce type password press enter, and it worked. I can login.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#2A2E2E][FONT=&amp]Whats wrong after I upgrade to 18.04? Why GDM and lightdm is failed?[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#2A2E2E][FONT=&amp]I'm using Lenovo with AMD RADEON GRAPHICS.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by ericzurcher on 2018-05-04
I"ve encountered the same problem. Still working on a solution.

---

### Post by denesberta on 2018-05-14
I subscribe, same issue.
Reinstalling gdm does not help. I don't think it is graphics specific, it failed for me on an i5-8400 config using only integrated graphics. I hope it is already reported as a bug.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2018-05-14
Think to glance at logs, mainly 'journalctl -b'

---

### Post by cyclistmatt on 2018-05-15
I also had the same issue, tried to solve it for 3 days now. I can log  in with LXDE and XFCE, I tried to install other flavours but nothing  else worked. With gdm3 I see exactly what ericknyoto describes, with  sddm I see a blank screen with the cursor and nothing more.

> **dino99 said:**
> Think to glance at logs, mainly 'journalctl -b'
Not really sure what I should look for. I am not a complete noob but I'm not an expert either :)

EDIT (3 hours later #-o):
apparently posting in here was a lucky charm: after much painful reading of different similar threads, I finally solved my issue. I was trying to solve another related issue, and to do so I was trying to re-install libgl1-mesa-glx, but it wasn't working (couldn't download it). This put me on the right path: I erased a repository I had used to try and solve the problem (ppa: oibaf/graphic-drivers) and re-installed libgl1-mesa-glx and now Ubuntu 18.04 works perfectly. I did not dare to switch to gdm3 yet, but as long as lightdm works fine, I'm OK with it. Hope this helps.

EDIT 2: 
it also works with gdm3 ;)

---

