---
title: "10.4 disable wireless keyring??"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Digitallysick on 2010-05-14
Its driving me nuts, I have autologin and I don't want to be asked a keyring password to get on the internet , How can I disable it from asking me and auto connect?

---

### Post by Digitallysick on 2010-05-14
bump

---

### Post by Dessicus on 2010-05-14
If you don't mind a little less security just leave the keyring password blank.

---

### Post by chorltoon on 2010-05-15
And [[COLOR="Blue"]here's a post[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=943443&postcount=7") which explains how to remove an existing keyring. When prompted again, leave the password blank.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-05-15
> **chorltoon said:**
> And [[COLOR="Blue"]here's a post[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=943443&postcount=7") which explains how to remove an existing keyring. When prompted again, leave the password blank.

That is actually a really, really bad way to do it (as it destroys the whole current keyring, meaning that any keys and passwords you have stored there are removed).

It's also completely unnecessary to use such destructive methods, the keyring password can be changed simply by going to Applications/Accessories/Passwords and Encryption Keys, right-clicking on the "Passwords:login".keyring and selecting "Change Password".

(If it's just about the wireless access, and you use no other rprogram that would require unlocking the keyring, you can also simply enable the "Available to all users"-option in your network connection's settings...)

---

### Post by Digitallysick on 2010-05-16
I dont want to destroy the keyring, I just dont want to ever be asked for a wireless password and I want to autoconnect after reboot with no prompts 

I dont understand, I rebooted and it still asks me for a password for my keyring, I want to keep the keyring, but exclude it from asking me, for a password for my internet connection

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-05-17
> **Digitallysick said:**
> I dont want to destroy the keyring, I just dont want to ever be asked for a wireless password and I want to autoconnect after reboot with no prompts 

I dont understand, I rebooted and it still asks me for a password for my keyring, I want to keep the keyring, but exclude it from asking me, for a password for my internet connection

Then do what I suggested, go yo your network connection's settings and mark the "enable for all users"-checkbox.

Or use the Passwords and Encryption Keys-tool to change the keyring password, leaving the fields for new password blank.

---

