---
title: "9.1 very slow boot"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tups34 on 2009-11-04
Hi all

hoping some one can help;)

After upgrading to 9.1 and sorting out some issues i had, i noticed that my computer takes a lot longer too boot then under 9.04 :mad:

I have checked bootchart and sure enough the boot times have radically increased.

to try and bring times down I have switched off some services but am not clear as to why it takes soooo much longer. looking at the chart it looks like lots of things are repeating them selves?! Is this normal for 9.1? if so why? and if not, how can I stop them?

I have included the boot charts for 9.04 and 9.1 for you to take a butchers at and hope you will help me find a solution :p

thanks

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-11-04
I have a suspicion that part of the problem is that karmic shows the whole of the process including loading the gnome desktop, whereas jaunty only showed the boot up to gdm, not beyond.

If you are a bit slow at logging in with karmic, I presume that will mean a long wait for bootchart to show, adding to the total time shown.  Generally I am finding karmic on my test partition, reserved for testing distros, to be fairly fast and certainly very usable, but there are one or two things I don't like, eg, the splash screen, the gdm login window, and in my case, the poorer graphics from the open source radeon driver on my ati 9200SE card.  Otherwise it seems fine, and I suspect I will eventually update, though I may just wait for the LTS 10.04.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-04
I'm interested in hearing an answer to this too although for different reasons.

My boot time went from 27 seconds on Jaunty, to 17 seconds on Karmic. Both are pretty darned fast.

I timed that with a Casio G-Shock stopwatch - except I couldn't even be bothered to use the stopwatch function, I just looked at the second hand.

I would also like to know whether I am missing out on some hugely fashionable trend, and can imagine a crowd of geeks standing around in a back alley with their hair greased back, slinky women cruising the crowd with hopes that they'll be noticed by a pack of nerds bragging about their superior boot time. Whiskey. Tango. Foxtrot.

If you add up all the time you've wasted bootcharting, you could have gotten something REAL accomplished.


> I have a suspicion that part of the problem is that karmic shows the whole of the process including loading the gnome desktop, whereas jaunty only showed the boot up to gdm, not beyond.

More accurate answer. Not as funny.

---

### Post by devlin7 on 2009-11-26
> **tups34 said:**
> Hi all

hoping some one can help;)

After upgrading to 9.1 and sorting out some issues i had, i noticed that my computer takes a lot longer too boot then under 9.04 :mad:




Did you upgrade over 9.04 or clean install?

I upgraded over 9.04 and am experencing the samething so it may have to do with that..... I don't know what got me to even considering using the upgrade function, everytime I do something screws up....

---

### Post by Anonymousable on 2009-11-26
I upgraded to 9.10 (it's 9.10, October 2009 ;) sorry) and had a slow boot time too.

I then installed grub2. It booted in 5 seconds after that. :D

---

