---
title: "amd64 or i386?"
date: 2009-02-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rweaver4 on 2009-02-05
I have been having a few problems as a newbie to Linux/Ubuntu and have just noticed that my CD is listed as for the i386 platform, whereas my system is AMD64. Is this the problem? If it is, where can I download the version for AMD64?

---

### Post by abyssius on 2009-02-05
> **rweaver4 said:**
> I have been having a few problems as a newbie to Linux/Ubuntu and have just noticed that my CD is listed as for the i386 platform, whereas my system is AMD64. Is this the problem? If it is, where can I download the version for AMD64?

Any AMD64 system supports i386 as well. I run both i386 (32-bit) and AMD64 (64-bit) on different partitions. You can use either one. Personally, I found it harder to find 64-bit software/drivers, etc. That's why I subsequently installed the i386 version. As for performance, I haven't noticed any difference in general usage, although I've read benchmarks that show the 64-bit version is faster. My advice, if you're new to Ubuntu, try the i386 first. You can always download and install the AMD64 version later if you like. I did it the opposite way, and 64-bit meant less software and problematic drivers, especially if you need Flash, RealPlayer, multimedia codecs etc. etc.

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-02-05
Some software is not yet available for 64-bit architectures, but the number of such programs is decreasing rapidly as such architectures become more common.  (The only common program I can think of that falls into that category is the Adobe Flash plugin, which is still in alpha release for 64-bit Linux.) But for maximum compatibility, i386 is the way to go.  For most applications, you won't notice a huge difference in performance, anyway.

However, if you're a programmer or mediaphile, then you probably want to go with amd64.  Resource-intensive tasks such as compiling code or transcoding video tend to be noticeably faster on a 64-bit system.  And there really are very few applications that still aren't compatible with 64-bit system.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-02-05
> **rweaver4 said:**
> I have been having a few problems as a newbie to Linux/Ubuntu and have just noticed that my CD is listed as for the i386 platform, whereas my system is AMD64. Is this the problem? If it is, where can I download the version for AMD64?

All versions are available from the Ubuntu web site.

There is a 64 bit forum where virtually everybody will tell you to install the 64 bit version, the only that seem to disagree are ones that used 64 bit years ago and don't realise that things have changed since then.

---

