---
title: "18.04 - Nautilus does not open files"
date: 2020-03-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pecoflyer on 2020-03-27
Hi
when I double-click in Nautilus on a file (any type) to open it, or right-click on it and select Open with..., the file does not open. I just get a small clock running next to my pointer.
With Thunar there is no problem, but as it has less possibilities I'd rather use Nautilus.
Thanks

---

### Post by pecoflyer on 2020-03-30
Bump

---

### Post by pecoflyer on 2020-04-03
Bump2

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2020-04-03
I'd be very interested in what possibilities Nautilus has that you're missing in Thunar - mainly because the loss of functionality in Nautilus over the years was one factor that drove me from Ubuntu to XUbuntu after 12.04 ...

Holger

---

### Post by noob5000 on 2020-10-21
> **Holger_Gehrke said:**
> I'd be very interested in what possibilities Nautilus has that you're missing in Thunar - mainly because the loss of functionality in Nautilus over the years was one factor that drove me from Ubuntu to XUbuntu after 12.04 ...

Holger
Nautilus has a search function, Thunar does not. I am on 20.04 and I have installed Nautilus for this reason, but it does not open files on doubleclick either. Very unfortunate, I have to use two file managers parallelly.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2020-10-21
For searching in the current directory in Thunar, just start typing and the cursor will jump to the file starting with what you've typed. For searching a directory and its subdirectories using more complex search terms there is a predefined user-defined action in the context menu of directories which will start catfish, an external search tool.

Holger

---

