---
title: "is 9.10 worth the upgrade?"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tigs6969 on 2010-05-05
loving ubuntu its my primary os and with my family recently gotten a bsod for the 9 millionth time theyve decided to look into ubuntu and have finally agreed with me it kicks ***
anyway i noticed im still on 9.04 and the 9.10 update keeps coming up but im a bit eh about pressing it cause i remember hearing about an upgrade not too long ago and some people had ubuntu stop loading up. am i wrong or should i just go ahead and upgrade?

---

### Post by polki@mac.com on 2010-05-05
There's always the latest version, 10.04, that just came out. Otherwise 9.10 will start telling you there's a new version as well :-)

---

### Post by robvas on 2010-05-05
Jump straight to 10.04

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2010-05-05
Ubuntu have released 10.04: [http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/1004features](http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/1004features) which is an LTS, meaning Long Term Support for three years. It's an amazing operating system and I'm sure your family won't be disappointed, it also now has the capability to sync with iPod & iPhone.

---

### Post by shaka_zulu on 2010-05-05
From my experience i can tell you to wait. 10.04 is good but still i have more problems then ever before since it was always working out of the box. I always tell people to wait at least couple weeks after official release. And even when you decide make clean install if that is possible.

---

### Post by tigs6969 on 2010-05-05
> **robvas said:**
> Jump straight to 10.04
how do i jump straight to it. the upgrade page on the site says only upgrades from 9.10 or 8.4?

---

### Post by samstreet101 on 2010-05-05
> **tigs6969 said:**
> how do i jump straight to it. the upgrade page on the site says only upgrades from 9.10 or 8.4?
 
For a problem-free installation I would definetely recommend a clean install. Back up all the data you still need then follow the instructions on [www.ubuntu.com]("http://www.ubuntu.com") for downloading a burning the appropriate .iso for 10.04

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2010-05-05
Tigs,

I completely understand where your coming from, here is what i'd do.  

-list what hardware you have.  This would give folks a clearer understanding to see if the upgrade would go smoothly

-Don't stress over it.  Yes it's an LTS release but you don't have to upgrade, karmic is still supported.  

I plan to stay at 10.04 for the full cycle because I am tired of testing, been doing so since 7.10.

---

### Post by happyhamster on 2010-05-05
> **tigs6969 said:**
> loving ubuntu its my primary os and with my family recently gotten a bsod for the 9 millionth time theyve decided to look into ubuntu and have finally agreed with me it kicks ***
anyway i noticed im still on 9.04 and the 9.10 update keeps coming up but im a bit eh about pressing it cause i remember hearing about an upgrade not too long ago and some people had ubuntu stop loading up. am i wrong or should i just go ahead and upgrade?
If you're comfortable with Jaunty (don't have any major issues), I would recommend not upgrading. Also, if you don't want to be bothered about upgrade messages, go to System-->Administration-->Software Sources-->Updates, and, for the "Show new distribution releases" option, choose "Never".
If you do want to upgrade, you'll have to upgrade to Karmic first then upgrade to Lucid. Breakage might happen though, that's why some people prefer a clean install instead. Also, if you do want to upgrade, wait until Lucid gets ironed out. Jaunty is supported until october this year.

Good luck.

---

### Post by tigs6969 on 2010-05-05
> **happyhamster said:**
> If you're comfortable with Jaunty (don't have any major issues), I would recommend not upgrading. Also, if you don't want to be bothered about upgrade messages, go to System-->Administration-->Software Sources-->Updates, and, for the "Show new distribution releases" option, choose "Never".
If you do want to upgrade, you'll have to upgrade to Karmic first then upgrade to Lucid. Breakage might happen though, that's why some people prefer a clean install instead. Also, if you do want to upgrade, wait until Lucid gets ironed out. Jaunty is supported until october this year.

Good luck.
i pretty much have like not one issue with the one im using right now. id actually call it perfect cause since the day i downloaded it last year ive been shocked its run so smooith and perfect in such a long time when by now id be reinstalling windows for the 15th time. but yeah i think ill wait till it gets fixed up. thanks all for the help

---

### Post by wcutrombonekid on 2010-05-05
if you really did want to upgrade, 9.10 has been out for a while, its gotten plenty of things ironed out, nothing says you have to upgrade all the way to 10.04

---

### Post by Malkosha on 2010-05-05
It may be just me, but I've noticed that each new Ubuntu release that comes out seems to be a little off ... so to speak. Yes, it works but there are always bugs/features that seem to get worse and more numerous as each release advances.

In 10.04 I have/had problesm with the boot screen after installing the Nvidia drivers, IPV6 hosing up my network, emerald/compiz not quite working right, the sound volume control going bye-bye, screen resolution problems and a few other things that are just plain annoying.

Yes, I fixed it all but it seems to me that the newer releases seem to get buggier (is that a word?) as time goes on. I remember the days when you installed Ubuntu and it just worked ... now you install it, learn to workaround the known bugs and then it MAY work. Some people have no problems at all and some do. Which one will you be?

IMO, I would stay were you are at and wait until this build gets stablized. I'm sure it will sooner or later but for now just stay put.

---

