---
title: "9.04 UNR Panels disappeared!?"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GamesMasta on 2009-04-23
Just installed 9.04 Ubuntu Netbook Remix on a wiped hard drive (ASUS EEEPC 1000).

Worked fine after I got to the desktop, but when I selected to go back to the old desktop environment my top and bottom panels disappeared. I cannot do anything :S.

I somehow managed to get to the help & support menu from which I clicked on a link to open Firefox. Firefox is resized into a small window.

Help would much be appreciated thanks.

---

### Post by HankB on 2009-04-23
I'm not sure if you're describing a problem going to the standard desktop or returning to UNR launcher.

I tried returning to the UNR launcher from the standard desktop and it was pretty wonky. All I can think is to start with a fresh login configured for the desktop you want. Also change the standard desktop to only one work space as multiple workspaces really seem to mess up the UNR launcher.

Maybe someone else will have a better suggestion.

-hank

---

### Post by GamesMasta on 2009-04-24
Thanks for replying. I was attempting to switch the "Desktop Mode" to "Classic Desktop". Right after I selected it, my panels on top and bottom disappeared.

I reinstalled Ubuntu and haven't changed back to classic now for I fear that the problem may occur again.

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-04-24
> **GamesMasta said:**
> Thanks for replying. I was attempting to switch the "Desktop Mode" to "Classic Desktop". Right after I selected it, my panels on top and bottom disappeared.

I reinstalled Ubuntu and haven't changed back to classic now for I fear that the problem may occur again.

Just in case you miss the panels again...
1. right click on background
2. click on **create launcer**
3. type **xterm** to name
4. type **xterm** to command
5. click **ok**
6. double click on xterm (icon created above)
7. type **desktop-switcher** and press enter
8. choose **Ubuntu Netbook Desktop** and **Apply**

The above creates a shortcut to have access to a terminal window and then run the swither from terminal.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by clevetbs on 2009-04-25
i was having this same problem first i tried doing a restore from the boot menu didnt work so i came here to see that it has happened lol thanks i did it and it works

---

### Post by ELMIT on 2009-04-25
Thanks, it helped to get the Remix version back.
However, Firefox remains a half screen sized window, which I cannot make bigger. Even F11 just lets the menu of Firefox disappear, but it remains that tiny size.

Since I have no window frame for it, I have to use File/Quit to close the window.

I get also an error message:

> Cannot start the preference application for your window manager
Window manager "unknown" has not registered a configuration tool

What am I going to do to stop this one?

So far I am not really excited about Ubuntu 9.04 :-(

bye

R.

---

### Post by ELMIT on 2009-04-25
This solved the problem with the window manager:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3697403](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3697403)

bye

R.

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-04-25
Hi **ELMIT**,

I think that we must wait a little bit for the developing to stabilize! As it is easier to be on time with a less tested "final" version than to have a delayed tested one! At the  other hand we are the "real debuggers" (users), so be patient!

I am using the old desktop style having almost everything working, and I change to "netbook desktop" before power down! I have also the **xterm** icon in this desktop just in case of shuting down in "normal" mode!

Regards,
George

---

### Post by rexg on 2009-04-26
I found the suggestion posted by njpatel in another thread ("Re: Ubuntu Netbook Remix: gnome-panel and nautilus don't appear") to give a full and permanent solution to this serious problem with the UNR Desktop Switcher:

> **njpatel said:**
> This a bug in the desktop-switcher package ([https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/desktop-switcher/+bug/349519](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/desktop-switcher/+bug/349519)), which I'm trying to fix and get uploaded to Jaunty before release.

To fix the issue you have currently (gnome-panel and/or windowmanager not starting), please run the following command depending on which mode your currently running in:

If in Netbook-mode, should execute:

gconftool-2 --set /desktop/gnome/session/required_components_list --type list --list-type=string ["windowmanager","panel"]

If in Classic mode:

gconftool-2 --set /desktop/gnome/session/required_components_list --type list --list-type=string ["windowmanager","panel","filemanager"]

I have updated desktop-switcher .debs available in that bug for which I am looking for testers (I would appreciate feedback on that bug). Once you've run the above commands, you can install the latest deb from that bug and hopefully further switches will work without issue.

Thanks and sorry for desktop-switcher screwing up :)

-- Neil

---

### Post by asphixmx on 2009-04-30
Same problem here, installed on an Acer Aspire One. I am very dissapointed, how to release a version (Netbook Remix) with such a BIG BIG BUG!! Obviously many of us want to switch desktops, between classic & NBR. The first time I got to classic with no panels, no menu, no nothing...had to reinstall... Well, hope it is fixed soon.

---

### Post by asphixmx on 2009-04-30
Solved!
As pointed on [https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/desktop-switcher/+bug/349519](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/desktop-switcher/+bug/349519)
I wrote in a terminal:

1. sudo dpkg -r --force-all desktop-switcher
2. rm -rf ~/.config/desktop-switcher

Then installed the .deb I am attaching to this post. It is a fix to desktop-switcher.
It seems to be Ok right now, switching between desktops as it should be.

P.S. If you are stuck in "classic" desktop with no icons, no panel, no menu... right click on the desktop, create a launcher and type "xterm" (without quotes) on description and command. A terminal icon will appear. Double click on it. A terminal appears. Type "desktop-switcher" (without quotes) to return to the NBR desktop, then follow my previous instructions.

---

### Post by radar_dx on 2009-04-30
> **asphixmx said:**
> Solved!
As pointed on [https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/desktop-switcher/+bug/349519](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/desktop-switcher/+bug/349519)
I wrote in a terminal:

1. sudo dpkg -r --force-all desktop-switcher
2. rm -rf ~/.config/desktop-switcher

Then installed the .deb I am attaching to this post. It is a fix to desktop-switcher.
It seems to be Ok right now, switching between desktops as it should be.

P.S. If you are stuck in "classic" desktop with no icons, no panel, no menu... right click on the desktop, create a launcher and type "xterm" (without quotes) on description and command. A terminal icon will appear. Double click on it. A terminal appears. Type "desktop-switcher" (without quotes) to return to the NBR desktop, then follow my previous instructions.
Was having the same problems - just tried what you recommended, and it worked...but with one extra step. I had to reinstall desktop-switcher (it yelled about broken dependencies) before installing 0.4.6. (wondering if that means just removing the config file might be enough prior to installing the updated desktop-switcher?) Other than that, just switched to the original desktop and back...everything worked great. 

Thanks!

---

### Post by vredet on 2009-09-23
I just had the same problem yesterday when I started my EEE901. I solved it like this:
 
First I did like GeorgeVita suggested since I was stucked in Classic Desktop with no menus and wanted to go back to UNR.
Once back in Netbook Desktop I added gnome-panel and metacity to the start-up applications.
 
In babysteps this is what I did:
 
While in Classic Desktop I followed GeorgeVita's advice: 
>  
Just in case you miss the panels again...
1. right click on background
2. click on **create launcer**
3. type **xterm** to name
4. type **xterm** to command
5. click **ok**
6. double click on xterm (icon created above)
7. type **desktop-switcher** and press enter
8. choose **Ubuntu Netbook Desktop** and **Apply**
 
The above creates a shortcut to have access to a terminal window and then run the swither from terminal.
 

 
Back in Netbook Desktop I went to the Preferences Menu and chose Startup Applications. In Startup Applications I clicked Add.
First I added Gnome Panel:
[INDENT]Name: Gnome Panel
Command: gnome-panel
Comment: Program Panel on top of window.
[/INDENT]Then I clicked Save and Add again.
Second I added Metacity:
[INDENT]Name: Metacity
Command: metacity
Comment: The Gnome windows manager.
[/INDENT]Again I clicked Save.
 
After this I did a reboot. On the Eee901 it can be done either by pressing the powerbutton and then choosing restart, or pressing ctrl+alt+del and choose restart.
 
I can't guarantee that it won't f--k up something else or stay solid forever, but it works for me now.
 
Good luck and keep up the good work!

---

### Post by yelkcubj on 2009-10-31
Had the same problem after switching to classic in 9.04.  Created the launcher to switch back and kept running into the same problem.  Decided to add insult to injury and upgrade to 9.10.  Problem remained but now I had a new problem.  The desktop-switcher app is gone.

My Fix:

[LIST]
[*]Create a different account and see that everything works as expected while logged in as that user.
[*]Log back in as yourself
[*]open a terminal
[*]cd /home/username
[*]ls -a
[*]mv .gconf old.gconf
[*]mv .gconfd old.gconfd
[*]mv .gnome2 old.gnome2
[*]mv .gnome2_private old.gnome2_private
[*]mv .gnupg old.gnupg
[*]sudo reboot
[*]after reboot, I logged back in with my account and had the netbook-launcher toolbar (the bar with the clock, etc) at the top of my screen but did not have any of the panel objects
[*]Right click the menu bar and select Preferences --> uncheck "Show windows from all workspaces"
[*]all is well and I don't have to rebuild my account
[/LIST]

I don't know which of the .gxxx directories contains the info that was messing up my session.  They were all recreated the next time I logged in.

---

