---
title: "10.10 menu.lst code"
date: 2010-12-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tandyman100 on 2010-12-21
I am trying to get a dual-boot with Ubuntu 10.10 and another OS set up. What I need to know is what code do I need to put in menu.lst to add kubuntu 10.10 which is on the 3rd partition of the only hard drive?
The bootloader I'm using is NeoGrub (don't question it, please).

Thanks.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-12-21
> **Tandyman100 said:**
> I am trying to get a dual-boot with Ubuntu 10.10 and another OS set up. What I need to know is what code do I need to put in menu.lst to add kubuntu 10.10 which is on the 3rd partition of the only hard drive?
The bootloader I'm using is NeoGrub (don't question it, please).

Thanks.

9.04 was the last *buntu version to use legacy Grub, in which the file /boot/grub/menu.lst controls the boot menu.

9.10 and subsequent versions use Grub 2, which dynamically builds /boot/grub/grub.cfg from the configuration files at /etc/default/grub and /etc/grub.d/. Search this forum for the Grub 2 configuration thread.

---

### Post by Tandyman100 on 2010-12-21
I had my other OS with GRUB installed first, and then installed Kubuntu 10.10 WITHOUT GRUB2 so I could use my legacy GRUB that I have set up. You can't boot Kubuntu 10.10 with legacy grub, then?

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-12-22
I would suppose you could chain-load any *buntu to be booted with legacy grub (I haven't tried it, but it's not obvious why it would not work).  To do that, you'll have to (a) install Grub 2 to the root partition of Kubuntu, and then (b) point your legacy menu.lst to that partition's /boot partition (the hdx,y number of it), and to the kernel image(s) there.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-12-22
> **Tandyman100 said:**
>  You can't boot Kubuntu 10.10 with legacy grub, then?

I don't think grub legacy can boot ext4 partitions; otherwise you should be ok for the time being.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-12-22
Ubuntu's grub legacy from 9.04, will boot ext4. Prior versions and many from other distributions will not boot ext4. All will say .97 as grub legacy has not been maintained since 2005, so each distribution has tweaked it.

If you have to use Neogrub are you using the newest version (at least in 2+ verisons)

---

