---
title: "8.04.x versus 9.04"
date: 2009-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ElEdwards on 2009-05-12
I just saw on Distrowatch that 8.04.3 LTS is scheduled for release in July... which made me wonder:  What are the pluses/minuses of staying with an LTS release versus changing distros every time a new one comes out?

Thanks :)

---

### Post by Skripka on 2009-05-12
How up to date do you want to be?  That is the fundamental question.  There is a continuum-do you want stability or new apps/features?

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-05-12
8.04 was released in April of 2008 -- hence 8.04, April being the fourth month.

The only difference between an LTS release and a non-LTS release is that LTS releases are supported with bug fixes and security updates for a longer period of time.  A standard release is supported for 18 months from the time of its release, while an LTS release is supported for 3 years (for the desktop version) or 5 years (for the server version).  Basically, with an LTS release you don't have to upgrade to a new version every year or so in order to continue to get bug fixes and security updates, but you're also stuck with the versions of applications in the repositories for that release.

---

### Post by ElEdwards on 2009-05-12
Well, I didn't realize that the apps would have that limitation.  It sounds like I should keep doing what I've been doing. :)  Thanks.

---

### Post by BZF on 2009-05-12
[SIZE=1][COLOR=Blue]the only differences are updates, really thats it, and the style slightly varies[/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

