---
title: "10.04 on new machine = slow"
date: 2010-08-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by morefeo on 2010-08-28
Hi all, I really like Ubuntu, but these issues are making me mad. First of all I've got two computers running ubuntu, the older one is a AMD athlon XP 3200, 512mb ram and a old video card running free drivers (ati 9250 agp). The new one, a laptop (Dell 1558 ), is a i5 2,4ghz, 4gb ram with privative drivers (ati mobility 5470 1gb PCI-e).

Both are using 32 bit edition, 64 bit didn't work in my laptop. The laptop is new (beggining of August) and everything is working well under Win7.

Well, the old computer is running Ubuntu perfectly, fast boot, smooth movements, etc, it's really nice for all I can do with it. But the problem comes with the laptop, here comes:

1- GRUB 2 menu takes too much time to appear: while in the old computer it's almost instant, in the new it takes about 5 seconds to see it, during it's time a blink underscore.

2- The Ubuntu "loading" logo on the startup looks out of configuration, taking no screen resolution (it looks like 800x600, but my resolution is 1366x768 ), and there are some graphic errors, like flashing squares. In the older computer (it uses a 22' monitor) it looks perfectly, taking the whole resolution and the logo looks small, like it should be.

3- Once I login (there is no resolution problems once I come to the login part) everything look fine, but moving windows vertically or horizontally looks bad, like it does not refresh fast enough, cutting the window and looks like I got a bad gelatinous effect (I've got privative drivers working, direct rendering, compiz enabled [and no, I've not got that gelatinous plugin enabled]and well fps [20k per 5 seconds]), this issue affects video reproduction too, while there is a moving scene across the room (for example). This issue occurs with testing live cd's too, with the free drivers ubuntu comes with (I've tested 10.04 and 10.04.1).

In the older computer, it goes smooth as angels singing.

I've uploaded an example of the issue, look at the pic where I move the compiz cube [here]("http://img408.imageshack.us/img408/6715/pantallazor.jpg"), the cube looks fragmented.

4- Before the major update (10.04.1) ubuntu usually got freezed, and sometimes it doesn't reach the login part, but after the update I've not expected these issues anymore, but now I'm expecting some hard drive noises, crispy and a little whistle. The older computer has never been affected.

Another issue I've got and I've posted before on the other forums (dell & networking) is Broadcom STA does not working at all, while b43 yes, but with low speed and interface problems (high cpu usage sometimes, suddenly disconnects, etc).

Hope you could and want help me, I'll be very grateful. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by morefeo on 2010-08-29
Hum, hello?

---

### Post by morefeo on 2010-08-31
Bump.

---

### Post by inso_741 on 2010-08-31
have you installed drivers for your gfx card??
if not take a look [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8972359&postcount=3")

---

### Post by morefeo on 2010-08-31
> **inso_741 said:**
> have you installed drivers for your gfx card??
if not take a look [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8972359&postcount=3")

> I've got privative drivers working, direct rendering, compiz enabled

They're installed, and working "fine", except for the issue that occurs even with free drivers and/or live CD.

---

### Post by inso_741 on 2010-09-01
to address your 1st problem....try to disable cd/dvd rom drive form the boot menu in the bios(this has nothing to do with th OS since the kernel boots after the grub screen)
as for the second part 5470 has had issues even with the drivers provided by ati/amd and I cant help you much there as I have no experience with ati/amd gfx cards but you can w8 for a update from ati/amd that better supports your card
now for the third part...have you enabled antialiasing??

---

### Post by satish_j on 2010-09-01
This new release by canonical team is full of Bugs.I would recommend you to install the last LTS(8.04)on your system.
I downloaded(actually wasted bandwidth) and installed this new release only to find it full of various bugs.
Take my word..even if you find the solution to a problem in this release,you will find number of new problems arise..
I am reverting back to Hardy Heron and i have made my mind that in future i will not use the new releases until i follow the Bugs(on forums) in those releases to be resolved..

---

### Post by juil on 2010-09-01
It's weird, I heard how there are so many bugs in 10.04, but i haven't encountered any yet. It's been smooth sailing. :P

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2010-09-01
Have you tried disabling modesetting?

On my thinkpad, I had to add nomodeset as a kernel parameter,(sudo gedit /etc/default/grub >> **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodeset"** then > sudo update-grub switch off effects in System>>Preferences>>Visual Effects, then get compositing by enabling it through gconf-editor. Alt+F2>> gconf-editor>> apps>>metacity>> general>> compositing manager

---

### Post by morefeo on 2010-09-01
> **utnubuuser said:**
> Have you tried disabling modesetting?

On my thinkpad, I had to add nomodeset as a kernel parameter,(sudo gedit /etc/default/grub >> **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodeset"** then  switch off effects in System>>Preferences>>Visual Effects, then get compositing by enabling it through gconf-editor. Alt+F2>> gconf-editor>> apps>>metacity>> general>> compositing manager

I'll try the grub menu edit, thanks!

About disabling visual effects and re-enable them, I expect those issues even if I have no visual effects at all, I'll try with minimum graphic needed to boot ubuntu (with the recuperation mode) to see if the issue still happens.

---

### Post by hangfire on 2010-09-01
> **satish_j said:**
> This new release by canonical team is full of Bugs.I would recommend you to install the last LTS(8.04)on your system.
I downloaded(actually wasted bandwidth) and installed this new release only to find it full of various bugs.
Take my word..even if you find the solution to a problem in this release,you will find number of new problems arise..
I am reverting back to Hardy Heron and i have made my mind that in future i will not use the new releases until i follow the Bugs(on forums) in those releases to be resolved..

While I am not quite that pessimistic, I have found that 10.04 has not been stable on several AGP or ATi video based systems, with or without fglrx. In particular the Kubuntu version has particular stability problems with fglrx. (The problems differ depending on the release of fglrx.)

People running Gnome Ubuntu on PCIe systems with newer Nvidia cards (8xxx or later) seem to be avoiding all of these issues.

10.04 came along at an awkward time while kernel.org and xorg are transitioning to Kernel Mode Setting video drivers. AGP is admittedly not well supported and AMD is abandoning their older generation cards and releasing their specs to open source, however Linux and X developers have not had time yet to fully incorporate the specs with the new KMS drivers.

While I have been working through these issues, I upgraded from AGP to a modern system, and I am also keeping an eye out for a good deal on an Nvidia card.

-HF

---

