---
title: "NTFS partition gone!"
date: 2007-04-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by damu on 2007-04-11
I used the NTFS configuration tool to set a read/write NTFS partition, which is also the "My documents" of WinXP on the laptop of a friend.

This partition was mounted once with read permission the first time I used this laptop again. I launched again the NTFS configuration tool , and got this message :



> Mounting /media/sda7 failed.

Failed to read last sector (103072976): Invalid argument
Perhaps the volume is a RAID/LDM but it wasn't setup yet, or the
wrong device was used, or the partition table is incorrect.
Failed to startup volume: Invalid argument
Failed to mount '/dev/disk/by-uuid/00177D6B418EAFEB': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/disk/by-uuid/00177D6B418EAFEB' doesn't have a valid NTFS.
Maybe you selected the wrong device? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/hda, not /dev/hda1)? Or the other way around?

I then tried to 'save the day' with the automatic configuration tool offered with Automatix, but with no results. The sda7 is not even mounted anymore.

Here is the fstab :

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=9bba113d-b4af-449d-92c0-e89428a0f8bb / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=a712c276-99a3-416e-ad5d-a1ca3b291ff7 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/sda7   /media/sda7   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions


any help very welcomed :)

---

### Post by compiledkernel on 2007-04-11
For future support of Automatix related issues please refer here --

[http://ubuntuforums.org/announcement.php?f=13](http://ubuntuforums.org/announcement.php?f=13)

As with all cases using NTFS Read/write one much be cautious that damage to the partition does not occur (no I dont mean from A-X either, for those concerned). 

This might help as well - 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions)

---

### Post by ianare on 2007-04-11
have you tried commenting out the fstab and mounting from command line with the regular ntfs driver?

$ sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/sda7 /path/to/mountpoint

---

### Post by damu on 2007-04-12
Thanks compiledkernel. I know automatix issues have their own forum, but this one is not an automatix issue. I have an issue in the first place, and Automatix didn't save the day. I mentionned it to give an accurate report of the steps I followed. However, the other wiki  that you mentionned explains that the version of the NTFSconfig that are in the repos of 6.10 is not the stable version and that therefore I should use another repos to get it (kind of issue that I hoped Automatix would fix, even though it is not its role in the first place...). 

Ianare, thanks for your suggestion.
I tried to mount sda7 directly  : > sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/sda7 /media/documents

When I go to /media/ there is now a red cross above the 'documents' folder. 
If I click on it I have the message :
> The folder contents could not be displayed.
You do not have the permissions necessary to view the contents of "documents".

I tried to > cd /media/doscuments in a terminal, and also got > Permission denied 

If I > sudo cd /media/documents it gives > sudo: cd: command not found

---

### Post by bollix47 on 2007-04-12
Please copy and paste the output of the following command here:

```
ls -l /media
```

---

### Post by damu on 2007-04-12
Here we go :

> lisa@lisa-laptop:~$ ls -l /media
total 28
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     6 2007-03-29 19:05 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2007-03-29 19:05 cdrom0
drwxr--r-- 2 root root  4096 2007-03-22 16:05 documents
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2007-03-22 13:16 my_documents
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root 12288 2007-04-06 20:47 sda1
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2007-03-29 19:05 sda7

Just to let you know, I first created my_documents to be the link to sda7( I thought it would be easier for my newbie friend to have the same terminology on both XP and Ubuntu). For some reason it wouldn't take because there is the sign "_" in it if I remember well. 
However, I then created "documents" and it was working. I could access sda7 from "documents" link on the desktop and read/write on it.

I got this computer back to restore the grub that seemingly WinXP messed up. Grub is now working fine, but no more "documents" on the desktop. The "sda7" folder in media has probably been created by automatix when I tried to repair using the mount NTFS partition that comes with it.

By the way, when I installed NTFSconfig the first time, I did follow the ubuntu wiki and added the needed repositories (just didn't remember it till I checked the third party repositories...)

---

### Post by bollix47 on 2007-04-12
Paste the output of:

```
sudo fdisk -l
sudo mount -a 
```

---

### Post by damu on 2007-04-12
Here we go :

> lisa@lisa-laptop:~$ sudo fdisk -l
Password:

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        1663    13358016    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            1664        9729    64790145    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            1664        3196    12313791   83  Linux
/dev/sda6            3197        3313      939771   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda7            3314        9729    51536016    7  HPFS/NTFS
lisa@lisa-laptop:~$ sudo mount -a
Failed to read last sector (103072976): Invalid argument
Perhaps the volume is a RAID/LDM but it wasn't setup yet, or the
wrong device was used, or the partition table is incorrect.
Failed to startup volume: Invalid argument
Failed to mount '/dev/sda7': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sda7' doesn't have a valid NTFS.
Maybe you selected the wrong device? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/hda, not /dev/hda1)? Or the other way around?
lisa@lisa-laptop:~$ 


---

### Post by damu on 2007-04-12
so, any idea what I should try now?

---

