---
title: "11.04 Installation Problem Hard Drives Fail to Show Up"
date: 2011-07-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dorianwalrus on 2011-07-13
I am trying to install Ubuntu alongside Windows XP, however when I try and use the "Install Alongside Windows XP" option in the installer it only shows one of my hard drives, and not the one I want to install Ubuntu on [SIZE=1](Screenshot 1)[/SIZE], [SIZE=1]when I click the arrow to change drives it's the only one available and I can't just format the whole drive because I chose the install alongside option which requires a minimum of 8 gbs for the other partition. I don't want to try and deal with the advanced installation method because it always pops up a an error (Screenshot 2). This problem may be because my hard drive is seen as unknown in the advanced menu (Screenshot 3).[/SIZE]

Screenshot 1:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/xjN0E.png[/IMG]
Screenshot 2:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/YEMfE.png[/IMG]
Screenshot 3:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/raiy9.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by ~!geek!~ on 2011-07-13
Don't select to install ubuntu and winxp side by side. Instead Reboot and  choose the last option: something else in ubuntu 11.04. 
Then you will be able to see a list of partitions. Select wisely because you may harm the data on one of the drive otherwise. Follow some guide to install safely.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-07-14
The "new" Canonical installer is particularly confusing in that they have removed the "Use largest free space" option -- the one that nearly everyone used to set up a dual-boot system.

So now, the SAFEST way to do an Ubuntu install (in a multi-drive setup) is the following:
1) Disconnect ALL the drives except the one you will use to install Ubuntu
2) Install Ubuntu to the one drive
3) Reconnect the other drives -- but continue to boot from the Ubuntu drive (This is important)
4) Once into Ubuntu, open a terminal and enter "sudo update-grub".  That will generate a new GRUB menu with entries for the other OS(s) on your PC.
5) Reboot -- you should now get an OS selection menu from GRUB.

---

