---
title: "10.04 runs Cisco Anyconnect but won't remote desktop"
date: 2010-12-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LarryC3 on 2010-12-05
Newbie here.  I'm running Lucid 10.04 that was pre-installed by Free Geek (the non-profit where I bought a used laptop). I got Cisco VPN Anyconnect to connect to my workplace network, but I can't figure out how to use remote desktop in Ubuntu.  

If I use Anyconnect from my desktop PC running Windows XP, the Windows remote desktop software brings up my usual log-in screen and everything works fine.  Any ideas?  I've searched forums and can't find anything that helps.  Thanks!

---

### Post by LarryC3 on 2010-12-26
I figured out that Firefox was part of the problem.  I have Qwest DSL with an Actiontec modem with a built-in wireless antenna.  

I read somewhere online that others were having similar problems.  I went to the Ubuntu software center and downloaded the Epiphany web browser.

My attempts to connect no longer "time out".  Cisco Anyconnect does connect VPN to my workplace, but neither Vinegre or KRDC remote desktop viewers will connect by VNC.

But I was able to connect to my work PC desktop with the Terminal Server Client that came with Ubuntu, and I can log in to the remote PC!

The bad news is that the Terminal Server Client's window is too small and I can't find a way to re-size it.

Please help me figure out the VNC or how to re-size Terminal Server Client window.  Thanks!

---

### Post by LarryC3 on 2011-01-17
I didn't figure out how to re-size the Terminal Server Client (TSC) window, but I did find a way to remote desktop to my work PC.

The remote desktop that came with my Ubuntu install is called Vinegre.  It does VNC. I think that stands for Virtual Network Connection.  I never got that to work.

While I was connected to my work Windows PC with Cisco AnyConnect  and the Ubuntu TSC with the too small window, I noticed that the connection was using the protocol RDP.v5.  Not VNC!

I decided to go to the Ubuntu Software Center that's on the Applications menu, and look for a different Remote Desktop than Vinegre.  I found "KRDC" and downloaded and installed it.  I noticed that KRDC has an option to connect with VNC or RDP by clicking on a drop down arrow.

I chose RDP and the resulting screens pretty much guided me through the rest of the steps, like entering the address for my work PC.  It prompts you to choose the screen resolution you want to use --this is important because it will determine the size and quality of the window to your remote PC.  For me, "use current resolution" seemed to work the best.  It also lets you choose the quality of colors, etc.

It seems pretty easy to follow, and works great.  The Help menu and Handbook don't work though.  It seems I'll need to find and download these items to make them work.

---

