---
title: "8.04, ubuntuzilla, firefox 3.0.4, now get eula every time"
date: 2008-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sixsmith on 2008-11-22
Ubuntuzilla upgraded me to 3.0.4, but now every time I start firefox, I have to click through the EULA, and I have to re-configure my plugins. How do I fix this?

---

### Post by nanotube on 2008-11-24
hi
hmm, well, you shouldn't have to click through the eula at all - even on first install... could you try starting with a fresh profile, and see if that changes anything?

---

### Post by sixsmith on 2008-11-24
> **nanotube said:**
> hi
hmm, well, you shouldn't have to click through the eula at all - even on first install... could you try starting with a fresh profile, and see if that changes anything?

Uh.. actually I'm not sure how to do that. Also, I really don't want to lose all of my bookmarks over this silly problem.

---

### Post by nanotube on 2008-11-27
> **sixsmith said:**
> Uh.. actually I'm not sure how to do that. Also, I really don't want to lose all of my bookmarks over this silly problem.

Hi,
Well, bookmarks can be exported and then reimported.

but don't even worry about that for now - just do the following:

quit firefox
rename the ~/.mozilla folder to something like .mozilla.bak
start firefox

and see what happens, if the eula problem persists. 

regardless of how it goes, you can then delete the newly-created .mozilla folder, and rename your .mozilla.bak back to .mozilla, and you'll go back to your old profile.

---

### Post by sixsmith on 2008-11-28
OK, moved .mozilla, restarted. 
First run: Did go through EULA, did not ask to configure extensions (extensions not loaded?)
Second run: No EULA, remembered my session.

That by itself is improvement.

---

### Post by nanotube on 2008-11-28
another thing to try:
restore your backed up profile
then run:
```
sudo chown yourusername:yourusername .mozilla
```
(replace yourusername with your actual username, of course)

now, see if the eula problem gets corrected.

if not, then just export your bookmarks, then start a fresh profile like you did before, and import them.

---

