---
title: "9.04 copying from ntfs to ext3 slow/not possible"
date: 2010-06-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gahligahli on 2010-06-12
I am trying to copy the contents of an external NTFS hard drive to my internal ext3 drive.  Ubuntu 9.04.    

The transfer starts, then slows, then grinds to a complete halt, and has to be ended, causing icons on my desktop to disappear.  Then the hard drive needs to be unplugged, then re-plugged to register in ubuntu again.  Sometimes this happens first time, other times it will not register after many plug in - out cycles.   

Small files will copy across successfully while still in the "slowing down" phase, so I don't think it is a permissions problem.  

On the occasions the ntfs HD will not register in ubuntu, it makes a clicking noise when started, then spins down to silence.  Could this indicate a hardware error, or is this ubuntu giving up after failed attempts to recognise it?  

When trying to run files directly from the NTFS hard drive (when working correctly), it runs fine with no problems.    

I currently have this device plugged in via sata - usb adapter, but the same problem happened when this drive was an internal. 

I had planned to move all the files from the ntfs drive to my ext3, then format the ntfs drive to ext3 and copy the files back, but it looks like it's not meant to happen.  

If anyone has any suggestions that would be great.  

Next time I can actually get ubuntu to pick it up and mount it I will try the enabling of DMA (as seen in another post), and trying to copy with rsync instead of nautilus (as seen in another post).  Is there anything else it could be?  

Thanks!  return false;

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2010-06-12
In general a clicking noise and spin down of HDD is not considered a good sign, especially when you have not heard it from the beginning which is how I presume it was.  There are a number of reasons for it to fail - failing or unstable heads, bad bearings, bad spindle just to name a few.  Any operation (read/write) you do on this drive is only going to worsen it.

All in all, it sounds like the drive is in its death bed.  It is time to get as much data as possible off of it rather than load in more data or using it as a backup for another drive.
My suggestion would be to get another drive, even it might be a slightly older one - but a working one.
BTW, this is just my opinion.

---

