---
title: ".ini files return after deleted. How can I perminently delete?"
date: 2010-11-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rfederici on 2010-11-10
Hello Ubuntu community, I'd like to start by saying I love this site. You guys are very helpful to people who request help in an intelligent manner.

In a nutshell, I have a problem similar to this user's:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=550235](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=550235)
(It's read-only. I debated [despite it's age] bumping it before I knew)

I've tried (first through graphical means, then through terminal) to delete the .ini files for my ClearCalendar. However, upon deletion, and they have no problem deleting, they return when I refresh.

I have also tried "sudo -rm ClearCallendar#.ini" in the Screenlets directory. I then use the "ls" command, and it's gone, so I delete the other, and "ls"...the second one's gone, but the first one returned! And when I navigate there graphically, BOTH of them are back. What can I do to solve this problem and delete them perminently? I loved the look of my Ubuntu before this, but now I'm almost embarrassed to boot into it because of how annoying they are, and the fact that I don't know how to get rid of them.

Thanks for any/all help.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-11-10
Are you sure that the program is not still running and recreating its ini files?

---

### Post by Smart Viking on 2010-11-10
Rename on of them with this command:

```
mv file.ini newname.ini
```

And then do another ls, have the original ini file appeared again and the renamed one still exist? Then something is creating them automatically.

---

