---
title: "No NVIDIA Splash screen?"
date: 2005-12-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Prudentissimus on 2005-12-22
Hello!


        I've installed NVIDIA Drivers via Automatix... but there is no NVIDIA Splash screen when I boot up.

        and my glxgears is slow...

        Pls help. What am I doing wrong.


        How do I get a score of glxgears?


-Tom

---

### Post by schilcha on 2005-12-23
Try 
```

sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

```

Good Luck!

---

### Post by fordfan753 on 2005-12-23
And to get the frame rate for glxgears

```
glxgears --iacknowledgethatthistoolisnotabenchmark
```

---

### Post by Virak on 2005-12-23
[QUOTE=fordfan753]And to get the frame rate for glxgears

```
glxgears --iacknowledgethatthistoolisnotabenchmark
```[/QUOTE]Actually glxgears just uses one '-', not two. And since that's a bit long, you might prefer the somewhat easier to remember '-printfps'. :P

---

### Post by fordfan753 on 2005-12-23
I agree, that is pretty damn long....

As for the --typo I made, it was about 1am, and I'm not an insomniac, so I was craving sleep. I was thinking at the time..."hmm, one - or two?"

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-03
is this command, sudo nvidia-glx-config enable, supposed to enable the nvidia splash screen? if so, didn't work for me. i'm trying to get it to display just for the soul purpose of knowing the darn drivers are actually physically there and working!!

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2006-01-03
Give us your /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-03
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-85
	VertRefresh	48-120
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Casey on 2006-01-03
This section:
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "NVIDIA Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro]"
Driver "nv"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```

Shows that you're using "nv" instead of "nvidia" so you're not using the nvidia drivers.  I'm wondering if you need the legacy drivers for the TNT2 though.  Hopefully someone else will be able to clear up which driver package you need (I know nvidia recently split off support from older cards from their newest set of drivers... I'm just not sure where the cutoff is).

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-04
after the poster who said to look in that file said that, that's what i was thinking, but after firing this up this morning, there was the nvidia splash screen. :)

thanks

---

### Post by Prudentissimus on 2006-01-04
so if it says "nvidia" instead of "nv" means driver installed? :D

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-05
i know from searching around here, that isn't necessarily correct. the nv drivers do work correctly on some cards and mine is one of them. or, at least the splash screen displays on startup now, so i'm ass-uming they're working correctly. i was finally able to adjust the refresh rate after installing the nv drivers also.

---

### Post by handy on 2006-01-05
[QUOTE=Prudentissimus]so if it says "nvidia" instead of "nv" means driver installed? :D[/QUOTE]

You should be OK.

What fps do you get when you run the following in a console:

**glxgears -printfps**

The **glxgears** output in the console should tell all.

Can you copy & paste the output from the console for us to see please?
Include your screen resolution & color depth too if you can.

Also, when you use **Menu: System/Preferences/Screen Resolution/**

What is the range highest & lowest in your screen **Resolution:** drop-down?

And lastly what is your current **Refresh rate:** & the range available in the drop-down menu?

handy

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-07
[QUOTE=Casey]This section:
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "NVIDIA Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro]"
Driver "nv"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```

Shows that you're using "nv" instead of "nvidia" so you're not using the nvidia drivers.  I'm wondering if you need the legacy drivers for the TNT2 though.  Hopefully someone else will be able to clear up which driver package you need (I know nvidia recently split off support from older cards from their newest set of drivers... I'm just not sure where the cutoff is).[/QUOTE]

i'm on different machine this time. has nvidia lanta card. appears to be working correctly, but no splash screen again. the  /etc/X11/xorg.conf, shows nv instead of nvidia. how do i either edit that file or switch to nvidia drivers now?

---

### Post by handy on 2006-01-08
My understanding is that if you have **nv** instead if the following type of thing:

***********************************************
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6800 GT]"
	Driver		"**nvidia**"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-107
	VertRefresh	48-120
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6800 GT]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
***********************************************

Then you are **NOT** using the nVidia (c) drivers.

I have installed my nVidia (c) drivers in both 64 & 32bit Breezy via Automatix, absolutely painless both times.

I love Automatix!  :KS 

handy

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-10
[QUOTE=Casey]This section:
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "NVIDIA Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro]"
Driver "nv"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```

Shows that you're using "nv" instead of "nvidia" so you're not using the nvidia drivers.  I'm wondering if you need the legacy drivers for the TNT2 though.  Hopefully someone else will be able to clear up which driver package you need (I know nvidia recently split off support from older cards from their newest set of drivers... I'm just not sure where the cutoff is).[/QUOTE]


what's the command to be able to edit that file to change that? have this issue on another machine now, that didn't fix itself after trying that first thing above.

thanks

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-11
bump.

need help on the command to edit the  /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to change it from nv to nvidia, please!

i know it's simple, but i must be forgetting something!! grrrrr!! :)

---

### Post by Thirsteh on 2006-01-11
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf    <- type that

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-12
could of sworn i typed it in like that SEVERAL times!

thank you

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-13
[QUOTE=Casey]This section:
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "NVIDIA Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro]"
Driver "nv"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```

Shows that you're using "nv" instead of "nvidia" so you're not using the nvidia drivers.  I'm wondering if you need the legacy drivers for the TNT2 though.  Hopefully someone else will be able to clear up which driver package you need (I know nvidia recently split off support from older cards from their newest set of drivers... I'm just not sure where the cutoff is).[/QUOTE]

after doing many different things, yes, i do need the legacy drivers for this particular card. now i have the splashscreen and even the nvidia settings tool works.

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-01-15
ok, i've been able to get 2 out of 3 different nvidia cards to work correctly following advice here, but i can't get this one ("NVIDIA Corporation NV6 [Vanta/Vanta LT]") to load the nvidia splashscreen. i was able to change the refresh rates and everything, but whenever i do the command to enable drivers, i lose the xserver-xorg. i've switched between the legacy and other driver a couple times, but get same thing. anybody else get this card to work totally correct in breezy?

thanks

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-02-11
still looking for help on this one. i thought i had it figured out but i guess not. guess i will have to remove the card and just go with the onboard video. not a gamer anyway. personally, i think nvidia drivers stink.

here's what i get when doing the one command already posted.

glxgears --iacknowledgethatthistoolisnotabenchmark
Segmentation fault

thank you

---

### Post by SWAT on 2006-02-11
I'm too lazy to read all the posts in this thread. Since you have trouble with you Nvidia drivers (and probably also the splash screen) you can take a look at [my own HowTo](http://www.zwhlug.nl/content/nvidia_nvidia_driver_1_0_8178_installation_on_ubuntu_breezy_5_10).
I'm running the Nvidia drivers from the Nvidia site here, with my GeForce 6600GT. (playing UT2004 etc.) I also had some hickups, that's why I wrote a howto. Just read through it, and look first if it's what you're looking for.

---

