---
title: "10.04, not bootable anymore... halts during boot splash"
date: 2012-03-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by janisgeiger on 2012-03-18
Currently I'm unable to boot into my existing Ubuntu 10.04.

I'd be glad if someone knew a method to find the source of the problem.

The boot splash loads, stopping at the line as seen below, advancing no further.

[IMG]http://i52.photobucket.com/albums/g25/rueckwaerts/splash-screen.gif[/IMG]

Adding irqfixup as a kernel parameter, -- verbose text

Results in: Boot staying idle during "Handling started event"

Is there a way to define what "event" is causing the problem? Or helpful boot parameters to apply?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-03-18
I am unable to get you because your post is too large my friend , but give a try by reinstalling your graphics drivers . you can get boot from Grub recovery mode -> failesafeX mode and then do reinstalltion of drivers . 

one more thing 

type ctrl+alt+f1 and type startx , what it giving you . :D

EDIT: aah! your image loaded now

---

### Post by janisgeiger on 2012-03-18
hm...tried supplied recovery mode but the same problem happened.
i'll check on google about executing a custom command, xfailsafe resounds. possibly. And you're right about that length, I know. Guess i'm just in a bored chaos right now.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-03-18
What happens if you disconnect the external hdd? It may hang at checking the hard disks, at least thats what the last line suggests.

---

### Post by janisgeiger on 2012-03-18
Hey. I think the hdd is indeed the source of the problem.
It has been disconnected all the time since yesterday. Maybe the system is looking for it now?
Tried attaching it, before starting the machine, in grub, at standstill, on different usb ports... Still idle. The thing I noticed though: The device number changes every time I plug it in again. Does that mean I have to get it up the correct number?

here's an output, the last line, of --verbose text:

sr 1:0:0:0 attached scsi generic sg1 type5

when i plug the hdd in, it's regonized as "sd". Very imprecise about what I can remember, sorry.

another last line, (output differs with boot parameters):
Handling mounting event

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-03-18
If you remember the usb port it was connected all the time, I would try booting when the hdd is connected to that exact port. Seems indeed as if Ubuntu expects it to be there. Did you configure the hdd to be permanently mounted?

---

### Post by janisgeiger on 2012-03-18
hello. i am so sorry.
writing you from my Ubuntu 10.04 right now. :-?

i did something to my FSTAB that i totally forgot about.


Creating a USB partition(?!), so that my USB Midi keyboard would get recognized (trial and error method). hadn't been rebooting for a long time so I forgot about it.

oh my, a personal hell.




What I've learned, "always safely remove a usb device before shutting down a pc, just in case, don't mess around with random packages you don't understand and eventually don't copy paste everthing you don't know about."
(Which might be impossible...)

 Thanks anyways, for sharing thought.

---

