---
title: "12.10 nvidia 310 driver. Getting it working :)"
date: 2012-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Twilk73 on 2012-10-29
I had a tone of issues getting this to work so I want to make a quick how to for newbs like me. I have used these steps twice, once to get the nvidia-current to work and the second time was to get the nvidia-experimental-310 to work. 

- go to software source, click updates and check off pre release updates. 
- next go to softward updates and get all the new updates
- go to terminal and whatever graphics drivers you have installed (all of them) even the nouveau driver. autoremove them. Example code below

```
sudo apt-get autoremove xserver-xorg-video-nouveau
```

xserver-xorg-video-nouveau was the genaric driver that the system choose for me. Seriously though whatever the system choose and any other driver you installed autoremove them. 

- restart your pc. (mine restarted then went to a black screen and refused to load so I had to manually shut it down and power it up again) 
- your pc should start up the second time just fine, your screen might be blown up to all heck but dont get scared. Yet
- ctrl-alt-t to bring up terminal
- in the terminal type this code below 

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-experimental-310
```

- wait for everything to finish and sudo apt-get update
- lastly restart your pc and bam 310 now works. 

I am very new to linux/ubuntu and to be honest what I just wrote up is slopy and probably dangerous. However these are the exact steps I used to get my ubuntu 12.10 to recognize the nvidia driver. I would go to software and change it that way but it would not work. After a restart I would have a screen with the wrong resoloution and i couldnt adjust it. I really thing after all was said and done what was really happening is the generic driver was conflicting with the nvidia driver causing the mess up. So the solution was simple uninstall the the generic and the nvidia making sure everything was gone. Then re-installing the nvidia. Everything work after that. 

Thanks and use this with caution because I am not responsible if you brick your pc. :guitar:

---

### Post by geoffreymatthews on 2012-11-11
Thanks for posting, Twilk73. I have the same graphics chip. On previous Ubuntu installations, Ubuntu 10.10 onwards, I've never had a problem with the graphics drivers. But with 12.10, I have display problems. Is this chip, the Nvidia 310, now becoming outdated?

Anyway, I couldn't find "nvidia-experimental-310" in the repos. Did you mean "nvidia-experimental-304"?

---

### Post by geoffreymatthews on 2012-11-11
I installed nvidia-experimental-304. It fixed the boot splash and tty consoles. Now the boot-splash and tty consoles look the way they did, in previous installations of Ubuntu with nvidia graphics running.

But login menu onwards, it's the same as with nvidia-current. That is, the display is at a very low resolution. 640x480, maybe: the fonts and windows are very large. And when I log in, I can't see the bar on top, nor the dash-bar on the left. Pressing Win/Meta key wonn't open the dash either. And the colour depth too seems very low. I can use keyboard shortcuts to open applications, though.

Diagnosis and solutions, anyone?

---

### Post by james.m on 2012-11-18
> **geoffreymatthews said:**
> 
Diagnosis and solutions, anyone?

Compiz is dying for some reason.

Here, it was doing it because of the nvidia drivers installed from the 'Additional Drivers' panel.

I had to,

[LIST=1]
[*]Install linux-headers
[*]Add the xorg-edgers ppa
[*]Install nvidia-current
[/LIST]

For some reason, the 3.5.0-18-generic kernel doesn't play nicely with the default nvidia drivers in the standard repository.

---

