---
title: "12.04 wont boot after kernel upgrade"
date: 2012-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Niels1974 on 2012-06-16
Ive been using 12.04 for a while without major problems. This morning I received notification for available updates among which I think a kernel upgrade. Not sure which version (EDIT: uname -a says 3.2.0-25-generic-pae). Now when I boot it gives me the following messages:

int: lightdm main process (1221) terminated with status 1
init: plymouth-stop pre-start process (1480) terminated with status 1
eth0: no IPv6 routers present
init: failsafe-x main process (1312) terminated with status 1

It then gives me the non-graphical login prompt (as if in a terminal), and I can log into the system without problems and see all my files.

What to do? I would like to boot into the graphical environment. I do not have any strange software installed, except perhaps VMWARE which required some hacking to run properly in 12.04. 

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by jmfal on 2012-06-16
I had the same problem a couple of weeks ago.

Whe you get to that prompt try

```
 startx
```

prompt will ask for usermane >enter> and password >enter

Should bring you to desktop, check to see if video drivers are still enabled , using either

>Additional Drivers or

```
 lspci -v
```

---

### Post by Niels1974 on 2012-06-16
Thanks jmfal

I tried "startx" and "sudo startx", neither work and simply lock the system and require me to press the on/off button on the computer.

I thought it might be a problem with lightdm, and tried to put gdm (sudo apt-get install gdm, sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm). This appeared to be a BIG mistake, since now I just get a black screen without a tty prompt and Im unable to do anything. Help!

what a mess....

EDIT:
Managed to get lightdm working again, and im able to login. pfew. My suspicion is that the upgrade deleted my videodrivers. I have ATI radeon HD 4650 and use fgrlx, which seems to have disappeared from my system.

---

### Post by Niels1974 on 2012-06-17
I solved the problem:

I have an ATI radeon HD 4650 and the software update deleted the fgrlx proprietary video driver, which resulted in a TTY boot (text login). 

Using another computer to manually install the ATI catalyst solved the problem, as described here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

Finally, I understand that Ubuntu is free software and all, and I really appreciate this fact, but it totally destroys my confidence in Ubuntu when the entire system can break down after doing a software update. Software updates are supposed to improve the system, not break it down. There are no excuses here. Terrible.

---

