---
title: ".run file help!"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bignybob on 2009-11-07
Hello I need help on how to run .run files. I downloaded an ati graphics driver for 64-bit ubuntu and I can't seem to understand how to run these type of files.. any help?

---

### Post by Bingybob on 2009-11-07
Woops I'm baffled I accidentally typed Bignybob for my username and it logged me in..

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2009-11-07
You can usually run them from the terminal.

```
 sh ./somefile.run
```

---

### Post by Bingybob on 2009-11-07
[FONT=monospace]sh: Can't open ./ati-driver-installer-9-10-x86.x86_64.run

I get this when I type that in.
[/FONT]

---

### Post by emeraldgirl08 on 2009-11-07
I had a question about my wolfenstein enemy territory patch also. It is a .run file.

What I did was drag that file out to desktop. I went into properties and went to permissions and checked the box that says "make an executable file."

I closed that window. Opened up terminal and dragged the file into the terminal box. The name of the file will come up. Using the cursor buttons- go the the very beginning of that line and add sudo. It asked for my sudo password and then installed it.

Not sure if I did this correctly only time will tell.

**Edit:**

I double clicked on the Wolfenstein icon I created on desktop and it runs! It seems that the method I used may work after all. Glad there are some familiar drag-and-drop elements in Linux :)

---

### Post by Bingybob on 2009-11-07
When I executed it the program said you have to be a super-user to install it. Not sure what to do.
Thanks for the help so far btw

---

