---
title: "pipe question: google and duckduckgo seem to reverse my question"
date: 2023-02-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Skaperen on 2023-02-11
i am trying to find the authoritative source that defines what a POSIX system like Linux and Ubuntu must do on a pipe (not a named pipe) when there is a process reading the read end of the pipe when no process is writing the write end.  every search effort gets the reverse question: what if writing when no reader.  i don't care (for now) about the reverse question; i want to know how the "reader with no writer" case is handled.  does anyone know where i can find this detail?

i already know how the pipe behaves and am not interested in someone trying to explain it to me.  i want only the official definition of this, or an elaboration based on however it is defined.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2023-02-11
Perhaps you might rephrase and shorten your question.

e.g   "reading output of pipe with no input" - yield results in Google.

I am wondering what OpenAI-ChatGPT would make of such  forum questions. An area of interest.

Also explore how RabbitMQ addresses this?

Or something related to buffering?
  
[https://www.google.com/search?q=https%3A%2F%2Funix+.stackexchange.com%2Fpiped-command-after-grep-not-working&oq=https%3A%2F%2Funix+.stackexchange.com%2Fpiped-command-after-grep-not-working](https://www.google.com/search?q=https%3A%2F%2Funix+.stackexchange.com%2Fpiped-command-after-grep-not-working&oq=https%3A%2F%2Funix+.stackexchange.com%2Fpiped-command-after-grep-not-working)

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2023-02-11
If you look at the man for pipe(), it mentions the POSIX.1-2008 standard. A search on the web for that leads to [https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799.2008edition/](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799.2008edition/)
If you look at the page for read() in system interfaces you'll find
> 
When attempting to read from an empty pipe or FIFO:
  
[LIST]
[*] If no process has the pipe open for writing, *read*() shall return 0 to indicate end-of-file.

[*] If some process has the pipe open for writing and O_NONBLOCK is set, *read*() shall return -1 and set *errno* to [EAGAIN].

[*] If some process has the pipe open for writing and O_NONBLOCK is clear, *read*() shall block the calling thread until some data is written or the pipe is closed by all processes that had the pipe open for writing.
[/LIST]


So if that is the behaviour you've encountered, this is the standard that defines it ...

Holger

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2023-02-12
> if no process has the pipe open for writing, *read*() shall return 0 to indicate end-of-file.

if i need to start process A and process B such that process B reads from its stdin what process A writes to the pipe, i need to start process A before process B.  further, i need to be sure process A does not juggle the pipe around in such a way that the write end of the pipe is not open, unless it does so before process B starts reading stdin (the read end of the pipe).  i could have the parent "cover" this by having a duplicate of the write end of the pipe open until process A will keep it open.  but how will the parent know when child A has reached that point.  i could make another duplicate of the write end and give that to the child as some other fd but that prevents process A from "writing" an EOF (process A will need to exit for there to be an EOF).

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2023-02-12
This takes me back a few decades to Dijkstra's paper on P and V operators (flags) to manage processes.

[https://cs.nyu.edu/~yap/classes/os/resources/origin_of_PV.html](https://cs.nyu.edu/~yap/classes/os/resources/origin_of_PV.html)

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2023-02-12
oh nice, google won't translate that paper from Dutch to English.  i hope tesseract can OCR it (text is poor quality).  my Dutch skills are very lacking (vocabulary of maybe 50).

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2023-02-12
regardless of algorithm, i still need a system interface to access the fd status relative to the other process.  i guess this is a case where the choices of POSIX do not work in a useful way.

*edit*:

what i am trying to achieve is starting a pipeline of processes in a way that each pipe works correctly and no EOFs can happen where not intended.  if one of the processes runs multiple processes, the tiny gaps between them can appear like an EOF.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2023-02-13
> **Skaperen said:**
> 
if i need to start process A and process B such that process B reads from its stdin what process A writes to the pipe, i need to start process A before process B.

Not necessarily. The normal way to do this is to have a parent process call pipe(), then fork() to create process A and fork() again to create process B. Process A close()'es the reading end of the pipe and dup2()'s to associate the writing end with stdout, process B close()'es the writing end and dup2()'s to associate the reading end with stdin. Then both process A and process B exec() to switch to the process you want to execute. The parent meanwile close()'es both ends of the pipe.

If you have multiple processes that must write to the pipe sequentially, the parent must keep the writing end open and wait() for process A to terminate. Then it can fork() again to start the next writing process (I think, I've never done this myself. Or you could pipe things via the parent process). Similar for multiple processes reading from the same pipe sequentially. I'm not sure what will happen when multiple processes write to the same pipe at the same time. Or read from them at the same time.

I'm not sure I understood correctly what you want to do.

> **dragonfly41 said:**
> This takes me back a few decades to  Dijkstra's paper on P and V operators (flags) to manage processes.

[https://cs.nyu.edu/~yap/classes/os/resources/origin_of_PV.html](https://cs.nyu.edu/~yap/classes/os/resources/origin_of_PV.html)

Interesting. Computer science from before my parents  met.[quote="Dijkstra"]Aangezien de centrale computer de facto steeds  maar met 1 programma bezig is, kunnen wij stellen, dat van de abstracte  machines er op elk moment hoogstens eentje werkt.

Seeing that the  central computer is de facto at all times working with 1 programme at a  time, we can suppose, that of the abstract machines at any moment at  most a single one is operating.[/quote]That was before multicore  processors. Still, the core concepts or semaphores are there.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2023-02-13
> **Impavidus said:**
> Interesting. Computer science from before my parents  met.That was before multicore  processors. Still, the core concepts or semaphores are there.


For historians only ...
I was a young apprentice engineer in Rolls-Royce in 1955 maintaining instrumentation for the Flying Bedstead.
.
[https://www.theengineer.co.uk/content/archive/october-1954-the-flying-bedstead/](https://www.theengineer.co.uk/content/archive/october-1954-the-flying-bedstead/)


I learned how to control an engine strapped to a test rig. Multi processing.

Distant days of slide rules and analogue computing.

In later years (relevant to this thread) I worked on projects using the Plessey 250 multi processor architecture.
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plessey_System_250](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plessey_System_250)
[https://dbpedia.org/page/Plessey_System_250](https://dbpedia.org/page/Plessey_System_250)

Long, long before multi core computers.
That is when I learned Dijkstra's principles of managing parallel processes. Using semaphores.

What has  all this interesting history to do with OP's question today? 
The principle of semaphores between cooperating parallel processes through pipes needs to be understood to avoid lockups (as posited by OP). Otherwise referred to as P and V operators by Dijkstra.


Now regarding pipes (in a context of automation) today I experiment with basic and dated Actiona (written in Qt5) through to PipeDream.  [https://pipedream.com/](https://pipedream.com/) or perhaps Zapier.


The broad approach is to communicate between processes through channels / pipes which using P and V operators (semaphores). Today's ... API's.
 

I also mentioned RabbitMQ earlier.
But the basic and dated Actiona (in Ubuntu repo) is one app I use most frequently to orchestrate workflows.

Through this mist I have lost the gist of the required workflow between google and duckduckgo.

Explain again please, OP. The goal.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2023-02-13
My posting here might be just noise, not sure. In the fall I had similar issues while attempting to get a token passing ring working. I had no end of troubles with: EOF return codes when not expected; Forever hangs waiting due to lack of synchronization; Timeouts when the amount of work done at each step became too much or there were to many steps. I was using named pipes which I know isn't the case here, but there are similarities.

Long story short, I was able to make everything work properly by: Opening the read pipe first, then the write pipe, except for the last stage; Doing a couple of synchronization cycles, where EOFs were allowed; Once synchronized, EOFs are not allowed and indicate an error; Do one flush cycle at the end, where EOF is allowed as the processes shutdown.

I had to use file handles within the program because redirection of STDIN and STDOUT just did not work as the program would not start execution until there is something in the stdin redirected queue, rendering it not possible to start the token passing via the last stage.

The larger context for my application was idle governor testing where I wanted to create situations where each idle state would be preferred as a function of the operating parameters.

EDIT: For your actual question:

> **Skaperen said:**
> i want to know how the "reader with no writer" case is handled.As long as the pipe existed, my findings were that the reader would wait forever for the writer.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2023-02-13
Are there any relevant tips to mine from this discussion ..

[https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2342826/how-can-i-pipe-stderr-and-not-stdout](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2342826/how-can-i-pipe-stderr-and-not-stdout)

Just guessing .. 
But I am more intrigued with where google and duckduckgo (in thread title) come into the discussion.
Is it to start a search in Google and switch to duckduckgo engine?

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2023-02-15
i am trying to emulate how a shell runs a command pipeline without literally using the same logic any shell uses.  it will be a function where the caller passes all the commands of a pipeline.  the function is tun everything to completion and return when it is all done.  but i was encountering conflicting logic when a middle command runs a process that calls a like function.  no code is available, yet, as this is still in the design stage.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2023-02-16
> I am trying to emulate ..  is still in the design stage.

We now understand the goal - to emulate and test a command pipeline. 

One very basic but useful approach is to use a proven  emulator Actiona which I listed earlier. You can then experiment with pipelines/workflows to engineer, albeit  running slower since the pipeline is compiled.  Actiona runs on Windows and Linux.

sudo apt install actiona or through Synaptic manager


You can add supplementary scripts (python, bash etc) by installing them in Toolbar > Script > Resources .. to be run using the Command object in GUI.

A bit like the testrig I wrote about earlier.

So breakdown your pipe into a flow of multiple Qt5 objects (well documented) which you can tune. In a tutorial you can intersperse Message Boxes.

I don't have time just now to offer an example. Actiona is quick to learn. I study the more active French forum by using Google translate.

Then if you use GUI to emulate the pipeine flow and save as say Test-Pipe.ascr the code can either be viewed in Actiona Console .. or just run ... actexec Test-Pipe.ascr.

There is a dual forum (English and French) the author being French, and development has fallen behind.
But the objects created are still valid Qt5 objects. 

I start by writing my Actiona scripts (Actionscript2 or javascript variable externally in Sublime Text (or it can be VSCode) with Actionscript package installed since it is easier on the eyes than the built in Actiona code editor which has tiny fonts.

You might need to emulate two scripts and handshake between them.

Actiona operates as single session. As a workaround I cloned the installed Actiona binary into two - Actiona-1 and Actiona-2.
This allows two (or n where n = required number  of cloned binaries) parallel processes to be emulated.

[IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAN8AAAC CAIAAAA6M02EAAAACXBIWXMAAA7EAAAOxAGVKw4bAAAgAElEQVR4nO3dd1gTWdcA8DNJIAGF0DsINkA6grIWLNhQsa3gKi666lrWtawVG4i964oioqhrWRXXLooVRaxgQUSsqNhAwCTUZDIz9/sjgKBgkE9geLm/h8eHJJPcGzy5d 5kzhxCJBIBAABoaWnt2rXr7xxrwDB24NR1BzCsUkTZsbNuu4JhX CV/rZr16666waGVeDz2IlhbIP3OzH2wtGJsRev7I07d 4AAJfLLb0HIaT4RUVFxdTUVFtbuzY7hzVw5aKTYZi2bdsqopMgiLIPyWSy /fv8/l8dXX1Wu0g1oCVi06CIDgcDnl2PSqUlLtfXSjwnt60adPU1FSapss pBhc27ZtWwt9xRqactFJURTDMKo9//p6O4Zh9PT0dHV1S f6UvHx8QzDcDjftwsrSz2y TTd/Q9fB7Xv7XO9UvT27rXbD9M4rgED7AV13Zn65suZXTE05hxfI8/NASiZ3L IyHK3UDOEsp dAABuI6Huz4FVa7fw6pa5q1In9p9a3Y7XE9STnX8MXfeE232zb397QbmdJerZzhG C28Jh4UfWdZNl6jsFRqyctFJ07QiOsmsDNOu3TiCRgSHAA4BAIhmgKEZmgaGAZpBNI1oGjEMMDSiEaIYSpSVk/6yqs0WxB2JEbtM9bHiKt 2VHR0dJ8 fb7jCT9OTTRdcO9CbHpuESfm8otF3XRVfuyL/2 oeOxENMPhC8iPyQSXA1wOIACaYSgKKArRDKIoRFGIohHFIIpi5AxQDCOTIZKpYqt5sYfP5bnP9rH4rr2B6OhoAKiTAK2JpoU wWGvLe9r9prQGodmxcqFhyI6KZIEGiEGITnJkCSSyZBMxshlQMkRRaHifylGLmfIIlpawBTl0vkipkBCF RXqU0kuXjkYqHHoD6m3320NTo6WhEolaHTQrsbWf8VSypuym/PdzVqv/whBQDMx6vrfutiZ2FoYNzUodPkIx8YAOZddPAv3dyszY30Dc3thkS oCt9ZaVNfwt1f31fJytjIzPbjsOXnH0jBwCgnhxcsSrs7 DQi7kIQJYYNqpfZ3f7lpYmBvpGTV16jgu9nl3VT/v/qi9XRQghhpYjRCCaZkg5wSGQ4tASgxDDIJpCchLJ5UguZ QkIkmGlCNSzsjkSEZS VWap5HowpFLsnYhvY2r9VVAdYexwguLxqxM9ly2c427rjzjWb6lHgeAykw8E/u2RWD4Og9tKoe2MPvmO6j CEpnv3wh1NXg5Wc jF434hWcvjjftXxT1Kvrp68mkRy pp6uMD/r9e2ohcPz9K7vHWrUgL8wqXjsJBCBKAqRckZGMkVFTEEBVZBL50voPDFdICn yZfQeRJakk3lZFDZ78iPb6Xv06vQIso5d/gy3WGgt0GtLgRQ4cdMCWHk2tWztaOzRw/fbi1LplNCaNu5p dP7br27dicX0Ot8zutTnrx5NmTczNd SBL3bMrXlrhdhzLsYcepj69t6m3FocRX46 WrXZ6H9VBdFJkzKGYhhpEZ0voXJFVJ6YyhPReSJKkkWJMuRZ78iPr2UZabKMNDLjlTzrAyXOofPymKIiJKeUN4iyYo5cJTx/7qVfzeDs06dPdUYvQrf3xHGtHgZ16eA3a/PpVHHlU/gPbxoAQIWvSgA0cuzfsyUPGPHj1A/fmLU5uq3dmnEB0dkfPzXoyb2iNbtcTuXn0QUSMustUDLEkEguZxgKaAoYhBiEaAYoBpX yGkkZ5CcRpTyPyWTefroNW7njd11qhWcSuOD4HC4QMkriD1Cp3PIuTu Mf/u2Bo 2vPvNsGHD/7pwPt6u2o3XRWIlJEIgFBydJhQ5asQAIhmmC PLjco5f5Iiuik5WRh nN51jvyw2syO1MuElH5 UyBlCmSK35QEcVIKUZKISmFZBSS0YikEEkTXKUTI/Mh ugNvtfAblrVCM6qxAdHx1CPk//86fsKPyg8Xfu k9adiN/jL7gRvidR/kObVo7KOBd59DkFXCNn5 rtdDcwX46dCCFGTiKaYKQkUygHggCi5PA7QoqxExTDJ40QXTx8AsUgipYX5CppjXl76shtda9tXsLqjJxVig Njn27NJr099TFWhM6W6iT99IKikcf6b1DO5/rtG6hr1L48vrzfEJbV7vqnfj/hiZ5ZY6H/WJZTqZEhjh6PaaPb6sKDXpUrJoKjncypJxABJLKmUI5EACKNTtCgABQaXQioJnifz9P8UpmdubViSN3NHpM6qJRc2 IMPRbv v97ODIwIDQIkJdx8Tqp242WhxgPr2 cWTJ0ZB3ubSqjpVb/1WbJ7biQXX2Pr8LR8 xSydXJvXlu6zMbK7Qws3754lzZwyw5AJUYSe9oSt3bnxUVJSHhwfz8V3R5vnmnm55CTEAJV9nIsVPmeGTKQlNGgFCCIGIVHc68aDytuhnG3p23GK7515od3yeE1YFFayKGFLG4XDIt6 ZQjlA2ej8avgs8/07QgTf0OxbTdHPThx7qNN7bkccmljVlIvORo0a5ebmEhdOqoo FlFZTBEJQJSLzsrRFJKT35ooqcfHjj7W772oHT5TB6uicjP7ixcvbt682TI8mICvYpEginfjCUCKmCVAsVxCxXumIBwztUXAxFrqONYAVJCTWVhYWFBQUO4sY4QQQsVLd4QIxUnHiokegGFoFRUVNYFAQ1ev1vqNNQQ4YxhjL3xMGGOvz6uiW7du1WE/MOxr5dbsXl5eddUPDPsantkx9io3dn6db4lhdQiPnRh74bETYy88dmLsVeHYmX/Az/yPl2MOxazyKr0KAPPyby npZb/vtnZt6aSbzCsvAqjEwFChcmb/X8xijk2zUm9 LGSTfD0j9WSSmd2lVZdXF8t8Z9xOuvrYETiMzPb25jqampoGdt0GbMlUYwAAKjkiBHd3K3N9LU0NHTMXAbOj9gW/GsXB3NdoY6Z84Dgs 9Lv7kvfHwocHA7WxNdHVO7HhN3JOXigMcqUPHYiQA4JgNDg376re 4UU4XDo9tqYLKDJ7Q2LrP1DW9TQ3UpM PLZ0xe4Su890VHqr0h7sXb8t9QvcPa8rJurF59qK/brj8FhSyI1hTdPXvWatGBzo 2DVIm2AyDo/vM 6O 5zlUZ10M8 unDF1MGOSGNZTs/bfPcZuX15tAQAAaAYBMDTfaXrk8rtes0Yuc4yZ50ozCBBDUxTFBTBvP8AcAABcHGZfO h36 Zr0s2Kohng6Ni07 jRhAPuBk PXdhk2zvApzMfoK1G0n89Dsbdk/bz5DzeufYEx/9QxNTOagDgtOFNrNuqqCsrvbz/ty9Gh32/SsdOAECIY G/ccP1rqPHB7c/O6H4/DmEEJN9Izxkxb4rqW9FcvXGhIgxK5IyJTukSLFryjEyNeYUZGUVIaQKQOgb6oMoR0wjRKYkPSHfp/ha7ClulaFIjup7EYME DpsWDnKEroJ/d4rNo/w8pu0oNng4pw2lHlw8i/BqZ2DVuzpYtW48MbqgMC0Cp6poqoCqJCiFOcqc1V5BGIQACAGAa/VH/sjh5uX7vQSjQxr98ogWL1QydiJ4PPyXKNjUOi4q/0XRfAosAKE5M/vPyi08p0y3tuFByDPM1cn0lAxxXq/ Pklr6W4t Qhvq19c7j04FXjZl3LXeULHwvAvlTJEaXi9Lbi22ptZm2YcL7vhkeqCCHEsbRtqbrjeOj2tuM8jNWoxx KSmK55EUUAYlKIhWVOx7FsR4 yTtywsKhf ZPGeRiyMt/mypq6v LuwYePLEvVPFSLWpuM9aMPd1/FwAAx3jouq0vZy1bP6pvlpQQaOoY2XYxU696bHFMfLec5K4M2bh12uHMQo7Q1K7fAp8hODqxr3zO3Lh161abNm3qtjcYVhb nh1jL3yOEsZe5aKTJMm66geGfa1cdMbHx9dVPzDsa Wic/DgwXXVDwz7Gl4VYeyFoxNjr6pGZ0JCgp fn5 fX2JiYo12CMNKKYlOmqZjY2MlEklpUCYkJEgkktjY2C KDWPYD6fkm8xTp07t27ev7D2xsbGxsbEAkJeX169fvxrsGtbgKRk7FYEIAK6urhEREREREa6urop7Ll68WIP9Ij/cP3fqVsWVM7CGQkl0hoSECIVCABg/fryWlpaWltb48eMBQCgULlq0qOa6Rafvm9Dv9x0p Mr/DRpes2PspSQ6g4KCJBIJAISHh4vFYrFYHB4eDgASiSQ4OPg722LS945wMtdRV1FV17f2mrg7pbDkkfyH 6b3dTLREKgJjVsN2JxCAwAwGRE9 ARBELzm06/LAaAw9cCMfm5NdRup6zXvPHbbvVwEgHJOjbHiW42JzkEAgD4e dVCwz3kjhQAyFfRC/3atTRorKZt6eG/5mpWyW6CLO1EkK 7hZZAoGHQosvi67LvfB9YbVGyKuratatiVXT37t2xY8d 8dB3tsXRdx02b tv5roq4qR/5k4bN8rc/XqgLZd5vXOY17iEVn8u3LO2uUD8usDKgguZABw934hzQT pAMHXa6rCfIga3X1UQtugNce66GWcXjJlYn/GNHl7b90 q8JGug/8M3DQT GtY6dNOW48 8rs1gIkuTi9pRJtNWH1zfJO/q r/mD/zd4MGRABMi68QEL99jeiOCty 11yx4l6PfDFdHZy1RiZiYGPQViqIuXbokFovDwsJ8fX19fX3DwsLEYvHx48cLCgpSU1N///33vXv3fv1EZXL3D2ok8NktQoi8MbOFislvJ8VM2XafrfbgG409Jyu9I2VJa77FhAsFipt02roOfJ2AE4UIIcR8OjuhOb/JoPH9TDV/WpYkRQgx77b2aKTjeyBH8aJMzp7 jdS8Iz8y1JNVHnxh3x3vy7aGsZSSsZPL5Xbp0gUA3NzcFOt3d3f3goKCEydOnD17ViqV5uXlJScnI4QIQum57fL0MyvnLD9w7fE7MWg2omTIvUiGmLzEhNdc92DPbxcnlCbfe0S fdBHZ0fxHQxFcvjvRAjUCEK7 7KNAad9wk/bzr05zZEPAPJHd5OLxFkBJmojSjcHh7cZjPTRrQfIYWlnQ3wmfj1Q1SK77u7uUVFRit8zMjLkcnnz5s0V6/fw8PDx48e7uLgoblaGfrpx2OAV UPXhK9uZyaQnJrZZyEAACCGAfgytomSIl4lEMMAz2Hq8X9HNSmTyWlUHGQFj67cymqspf78ZFTinNbtGwMghLjmAbtPzXQqfYeEQN Kix4yqLQGE8Zy1Vmz8/l8VVXVsseYRCLRvXv3vv0sKuVOEuUycv7YXm0d7Z3aOJiqEAAAHCNHRyM64WKcpNzWaupqUCCWlFYBVrN3toYX919qtLQpZW2uxQUAlHt5wZhN9ITjtyN/Fm0cM/9yLgKerYs97/39p9CszOaWuqqg5uBiDcmXrnzE51nXA9zAwEDFb /evWvevHlVnjNlyhSJROLj4yMQCABAKpXGxcWtXLlSTe1bV/Mg0NNjEVH3842s9Im87Dd3Tu6 yPSYOry10LwZN27L6shYUWMhryDzacLl56oOLUypB3u2RyXlmzcRZNy9kAJOHX4SPvhnfcSpVzyhgMx5nXz15M3CVk7mfCI/fu6AqU/99v87ztWpQ5PHG duz k8ope9rcHbqI1h/yXTmo0Y8bvUm2diM0xdmmpw9ZoLH 5cveXUG742X5r18t7lh3JrG0O8MGKnb6 KKrRly5axY8cuX75c8cTly5cHBAR8 PBB2fMKHu6e6GWjr87j8PgaeubWbaeeEjEIIcSIErdN7GFn1FiVJ9Bu4j49Jhch5uPFkL6t9NV4KhqmrhMOf2AQyn 0f2Z/V3MtAU9FXa px7gD6TSSP1zWRt3k16PFyx86fZu3lnrbFSlyhGQvo0N 8Wiqq6bCE2hbuPiFp1DF/Ug9MLOfs5kmn6eqaeo06sBbujp77FjNK5eT2bNnzyrGNEIoMDDw5cuXGhoaAoFAJpMtWrTIxMSkxj5EWENU1VXRFwiCcHR0FIlE06dPt7S0FIvFhoaGP7ZnGFbNsRPDagH nh1jLxydGHuV2USqV11Q8M xoeOzH2wtGJsVdVo/POnTsBAQEBAQF3796t0Q5hWCnlOZlxcXG5ubmlX6PfvXs3Nzc3Li4O52RiNU3J0fiYmJiDBw WvScuLi4uLg4A8vPze/fuXYNdwxo8JWOnIhABwNnZOTQ0NDQ01NnZWXHP5cuXa7BfZMaDC6cTPuCczAZNSXTOmzdPU1MTAEaPHi0UCoVC4ejRowFAU1Nz/vz5Ndct s2BSYP/ OdR7eZkInHC2r4WOgP3iPD5dayA1 wKZMbNfwL7eXgvvJKNx2vWUBKdS5Ysyc3NBYDIyEiJRCKRSCIjIwEgNzd36dKl39kW82b/mDbNjXU0NHXMHL2n7nv0OScz5cDsQW2s9LW0DS1d/MIfKXIyMyP7CtXU1NQa282 KYeKq2uiT6cn2AhtJpz5hAAAZR0f1UK//dJ7UgAgX59Z4t/ZwVxP28jac SGa6VhJ3t5atGw9i2MtLT0ze17Lr8pA5DeXjtpdVKzGf t8sYVlNlDyaqoU6dOilXR/fv3J02a9MVD39kWR895yOxNAWa6KuIHe4Nm/znOrPXlGTZcJn33SO8/E23Hz9 xohlfkl5oac6FjwAc3UGbo e25QHB17NSKamuOXfFoU66mTErpk8dzJgkbuml473s71/bD/lrfn PUNcrs6afMpp frqLAEliA338j1lMXr53tUXetY2zFvr9oZ94wN YyD412dv/hO7weVtC7DQK33/Sa6oCwOmw6lYywSEK/7sIIFf VrBaoSQ6e/XqpaGh4ezsHBUVpVgheXp6 vn5xcfHd 7c enTp6GhoR06dBgyZEhVGlOz7f6zLQAAuNvnnj849ubdPLBplBihxv6IGolb0/J77RHwGAp93E1s5OVXFH6sa1J7i/Ht0xo4s6ALTe9O6y8/L/4tf16qOm3WPJxhGXB0 ZwHNMOG0288JfTgJAH/5btzvbO/xK8GBtAsDNJu96i4mHzn0aNly0Z/VBcbeNlzcFGJVLLiI4ONeIdZTnZHp6egKAi4uLIjpdXV0LCgqio6MvXLgglUrz8/NTUlJQ1XIy35xdu2D1oRtP3klAU52SIbciEjH5d 6kc93mdVCSk5ly/zH57uFAk3 K72AoksN/L0agRhBaXiFr/WN 3hZjMytusgMfAOSp9x8WSbJHW2mPKd0c7N5lMNLHtx8iuxBPXPiwPqjq2cetW7fevXu34vfMzEyKopo1a6ZYv0dGRk6ZMsXJyUlxszL0s7ARw9YU C0PXe5hys89M3fgEgAozsmEKuVk2v95aNcIiwqqaxY8vpqQ3Vio/uL0f3dnuvxUnJNp5h955C HsjmZllz0COdk1h/VzMlUUVEpe4xJLBYnJSV9 1lU6t1kyunXwNE93B3sHN3sTHiKnExDBwdD k5s/Bc5mWpqUCjO/ZyT2cqpBaQ9eKXRwrpUS7PinMy4kAnh9O H4sMHiMImhMTlIuDZONnxPiQ9g6ZlNm iowpqds4t4OHlq1n4mFE9UC4n09LSsirPmTlzZm5ubu/evRU5mTKZ7Nq1a4sXL1bcrAzBPD8ReTipwNBSn8jPeXsv t9YxmvSUFdNMytOfMT6XXGiRkJeYeazO3EvVOybm1DJ/ 488iDfzEKQef/SI TQrq0wec/GHadf84R88lP6w2vRtwttHMz4RP71IL Zz37e/c8YZ8f2Fk82B 3K8Rzeo5Wt/rv/wrYefUhrNmIk7x/fPnsl09TZSoOr10yYsntdxOm3Am1VadarpLgUsqV1aU6m/NHhdSco76lDnNTw8Fr3qjN2Ojs7a2lplT3GJJfLZTIlF8vi2k7cFvarztUFQ7q2a /ps/KhkYONiSoA8Fr sf/MxoH8S0tHD zdf8ScrZdeFoKKx8zNczrkHZg4oO wmRHnn30iTH/ZHrNzlEXy5klD vQZPG7JoVtvchFQj7YEbpcMXDK3fWMAQr/f4gWdP2yfszWV1uqx9vTB6U7v987y9 k94Ld5O2PTxAgAOCZ 22J2/mZyZ8ME3z4 w/7aFP1EhI9wslS5vKKqHyRCCAUFBb1 /bpx48aKnMz58 cbGxvXWD xhqj6OZn29vZisXjy5MkWFhYSicTAwODH9gzDqjl2YlgtwN zY yFoxNjr3L7nd8 JIRhtQyPnRh74ejE2AvXycTYC9fJxNgL18nE2AvXycTYC9fJBABAkqS9swe6WWip8TUMbbuOi7gjwWfYsQBeswMAk35wbtB5dZ/gnYcPb5nc6u0/f/w8N7aornuF4TqZXRZfl3Ga/H7sye19waMH9u47fF5kUC/V9zeup FFX53DdTL1m6kAECoqJX8JJjvjI92oWXNjPK3UPVwns5zCB u762l3WpMsq/hxrDbhOpmfobw7G/z6Lfo0IurMNHtVZe8Gq3m4TmZJA7k3l/n4rCXHHju7pJMuTipiBVwnEwAAmPdRYwevzBt5 BQOTRbBdTIfyq1tdO4t9p2d4rU4pKt6dkZGRkZGRqYYCfU0cPnMOobrZB54K0/f2OmL/Uye7ZwEeXV25LEfCNfJxNgL18nE2AvXycTYC38hgrEXjk6MvXCdTIy98NiJsReOToy9cJ1MjL1wnUyMvXCdTIy96k2dTDptW/8mVoN3vsZpmg1HvamTSagbNm3Z0spAHZ/f1nBU83v22scx6rf PL64Q8NSf pkSvb7amv7HchTPEOWdnLhEI9mBlo6JnZev2 M/6iY8JmXByd7t7VrYqitqaFl2KLdsJWxmYyy1jG2qjd1MoH8/EIo 9Qkb/9oo9ELdyyzkt3fvTikfz/x2dggNzXm08Mr17PsF 3c5KxWlH5p04IlwyaZ3Tvob0RU1vp3vgesNtWXOplQJjrpZ/ sipJ033hlXYARAdDVs0Vhxw6b1p2avM 3MQAQQuuOPbq48gA8W2Zfab3s9PUC/0GNK2ldq8p/Kaz21Zc6mWVJHySmlK11qWrbuaPx6jOJjylft/K9N2/eTCD/8FHCQGNOha1/mVyHsUp9qZP5BQRfbVDhhY94Klygaaby1jE2qy91MssS2LvaQsrnWpfyx1fiPwgcXK2/8VGrpHWM1apzRGnBggWKhXwpTU1NpZek47Wwb0lE712z2ybAxYAvfZ5V/EWoarvxU9r/GzjBV2Pen942WlTWa3Ac1qOJo6Np0a4NC/dr uhLXkhthvc1LX0lrvWIWYMjfg0cOoua3c9Kdn9XyPqntn/87aNNQKXXrKusdYzN6k2dzLITN2HQf9PpXSN0roQM79t/7OY0xzlHjge3Va9W6xiL4TqZGHvhOpkYe E6mRh74XPjMfbC0YmxF66TibEXHjsx9sLRibEXrpOJsReuk4mxF66TibFXvamTSb8I9zYy6bf9Fc7JbDjqTZ1MQt2wmbV1U8MaysmkM87PbqutO KUknNZsNpUf3IyjQduujKwJl656NXFyJULl 26mUVq2NREA1h11Z86mZK9/dXUBuwrycl8cWz IFczTYG6bvOOI9fFFWdeMmn/TvByaW4kVFNVEQgt3HyXXsxgvtk6Ep8JGh/25qeV/y1sh0tssEy9qZNZLicz68R4L7 TxmOX7F3VVHp3Z/ACb29x7LVFbdSYnOTY I Oy/ZtdVUren1hw5yFvuPNU44GGBOVtU5oDfzn6SCCYN5s2lF517G6IRKJzp8/X1BQwO46mQiJ9/QTCPrvzUWIeryibdlal7L7wU4qwsH7PzFIfjvQml9azIV6uqqtamPfqLzKWy9Fp4d25msHnJR /3vBagoHANq1a1dZ7CrqZAqFQje34nTH0jqZM2fOXL16tVgsVtTJrMIHQZ5 Zom/p72lgbaWgf30WBmSFckQk5GY8Jrr7qWkTmZZ0vsJycjBq7TWpWqrrp1Miu4lpH6Zt8G1aNlcIM/ KGYqa72qTWJ1ggcAJEkq3a6u62R oeo5mbzinMxKWsfYjAMAiYmJqqrfkWNTF3UyyxI4trYrW tSnhp79b3AqbXNt3IyK24dYzUefHNmr9Ds2bMVC/lSQqFwxYoVSlqydrAhTuxesbPVb64GfOnTj8XzsGqHP6d33Dt9TH/N4Cl9bLWpj6/A ddelk7OZkXb187fK xvIH4ubTWin1npK3FtRs0ZsuWXGYOnUfMGNJXejVyw nGryZsH6HwrJ7OS1jE24wAASZJVmdxLubq6amtrlz3GRJKk8pzMVlN2bRupc2XOwA5u7h49lyUbO7Uy5QMAz3rS4QtbfuafDwno08172MywC2mFoNIuMGKBZ 6 sb17DP5rS8yTnHI5mYaDtl7YN0rn0gK/Ht6jNr5wXnDqzOKfvp2TWVnrGIsRIpEoMTGxXbt2V69exXUyMVapzswOuE4mVitwnUyMvaqzZsew2qHkaDyG1aFyR NxnUyMVfDMjrEXntkx9qrq0XhcJxOrfUpmdlwnE6tDSo7G4zqZWB1SMrPjOplYHWrwdTLp7FvbpvV3tzLQ0jJs6j5g1qGn Kgaa9SfnMyaqZNJPdoxe 29Vr8v2WGnmX196 L1Y4ZrWl f71hv/i7/0xp6nUyew/RzyRfDpvv37eUzcuGmqW3g6c3bOTijgx1wnUyuammiMJWVkQN6nk2rnuKE1ShcJ7MEktxYNm27pOfaGZ3xNXZZAtfJBAAAlHNl4c9Dd6jPOLrd3wJf05QtcJ1MAJR1YbaPf5T vJP7Jzs3/lazWO3CdTKpZ1tHjtirOesYDk3WafB1MvPPr1kRbzh0T1dO2oMHAABANDK1bqaLz9ligepEp7Ozc1JSUmRkZOnMXuU6me9nrFowZNcnkttIqG/sMOBznUz1kKBNS0dH5FDqJnYjNg3o0dxj5uY5z6dtmThgK8/Abui63n0 R2dxncwlc1aEDI8QcY2dvOccWT61CnUyK2idepFwJ4dMDRvSLvfrDpMAAAEUSURBVKxkU9V2q5PO/2mJ9z7rHq6TibEXrpOJsReuk4mxF967wtgLRyfGXrhOJsZeeOzE2AtHJ8Ze33FECUk/kdemASmhs 4CLQUOj2vWXbX9OkKgU3P9wxqy7xg7yWvT6PQzqp6bOXpOAAAMRaefIa9Nq6muYQ3e98zsXD7Xsi95ewGhpl96H/32/I/vFNvRaYdmDpu0N01JAh6TeWXzvCVHX1Y9Ty// oaRfsviKjz35f Lfnly2YzV57Lq03n/3xGd/M5b V0iFT f72Vq5hLXP7BO5lcv9f/GvL/ 35H4tAIl/9FMekzo2n8TcqrcMip8FHPgVFLWD gqnfPo4vGraWX c gnx9ZvOvEovz5F5/8Bl0N WmvvxLwAAAAASUVORK5CYII=[/IMG]
[IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAOoAAAC0CAIAAAAVcieeAAAACXBIWXMAAA7EAAAOxAGVKw4bAAAgAElEQVR4nO3dd1QUVxcA8Du7C7uAsPQOgqKAdAQlFiwkKgiiRjCKgXxqLDGW2LCC2LuJKCKKGktUjEaNKFYEsYIFAbH3QnV3qVtm5n1/LCAgZSEqTPJ x NhZ2f2veVc3r55O3cusXPnTgAYPHgwVDp69ChgGBMQAoGgpfuAYc3EaukOYFjz4fDFGIxT59abN28CAJvNrtqCEJL/oKSkZGJioqWl9QU6h2ENqzt8aZru2rWrPHwJgqj lEQiuXPnDpfLVVVV/RIdxLD61R2 BEGwWCzp6Q2oTFRjuyqf5z2jXbt22dnZFEVVf0o PHft2vXz9RXDaqk7fEmSpGlauf8vHz9F07Surq6Ojk7VdKJKSkoKTdMsVtPm05LsI5tPUt/8FOCg0qTjmKb89a3LNzKfslyDB9vzWroz/xb1Th7kg2vhsbWyokKAyvlDrZCt8Qi1R6jg0XEAYKvxdb6do1gHyi5tmbc6e5L/tCZ2nGnIBzt/GrH AfubzQH 9rwa8zHy0c6QgEXX SOjjyz/Woeo7xWwj9UdvhRFycNXmp9j0vdrFk NYBHAIgAAUTTQFE1RQNNA0YiiEEUhmgaaQhRCJE0K8gtfPlO0/dLkIwlCl2l luzG960SHx8/cODAJhzw6XyOpktvn0t8WVTOSrj4ZPHXOkqf9sX/3RoZfRFFs7g8aV4GwWYBmwUIgKJpkgSSRBSNSBKRJCIpRNKIJGkZDSRNSyRISivYfHHi4TPF7qF 5k2acMTHxwNAi0Tw52ia7xce9cLijsaAiZ1x7DZN3WEjD19SKgUKIRohmZSWSpFEgiQSWiYBUoZIElX8T9IyGS0tp8SldHkRVSKgS0VUaYlCjSPR SPnyzyGDjRp8vJzfHy8PJLqQz2N/MbQ pdEqfyh7MYCV8PuKzJJAKDzLq3/Xx87cwN9o3YOvaYceUcD0G/iw7/72s3azFDPwMxueOwTqt5XbrTphpB3Nvg6WRoZmtr2HLX09CsZAAD54ODK1VG/hUeeL0IAkrSo0YN6u9t3tDDW1zNs59J/fOSVAkWHg/ aek/dEEI0JUOIQBRFS2UEi0DyFTQaIZpGFIlkUiSTIZmMlkmRVEpLZUgqoyUyJJGSJQpNBZDg3JELkm4RPkbN vKkuQNh2bnFY1dleC7fudZdR5bzqMRClwVA5qadSnzdYU70eg8tspAyN23wHTR/DKYKnj3h66hzSnIz49eHPIeT5xe41myKfH7l5KV0KYuroavDL8l/cSNu0ahi3St7Rxjir5g 0sjoSyACkSSSymiJlC4vp0tLydIiqkREFQupUlHFvxIRVSyiRAVkYQ5Z8Eaa91r89qUCTaPCM4cvUj2GeOt/0bMVVJaXKyIMXft6dnZ09ugX8HXHyk9sgm/bu7/nV936 va04n6m1rm91qQ/efDowZlZrlyQZO/ZlSKucz WxbhDmdkPb2/y0WTRwovxlxT7PPuvaSh8KamEJmlaXE6ViMgiAVksJIsFVLGAFOWTghxZ/htp3gtJzlNJzlNpznNZ/jtSWEgVF9Pl5UhGNt4yyk84conw/HaAXjOjd DAgc0Z/wgdn0njO2WG9ekROHvzyWxh/bOET940AIASV5kAUHP079 RA7Twfva7BiYGLJ3Obu3ZgKiCvPd4/lCHBlceZDKypJgqFUnzXwMpQbQUyWQ0TQJFAo0QjRBFA0mjqn8yCsloJKMQ2fjvms49 ddldu N32g3K3obDSCCxWIDKasjOAnt3hFnbgYk/LFja/QYz9 6hB8  LND3b H5jWtCCSVSBEA0cgqOaHMVSIAEEXTtVfZMahv9JWHLyWTlr18LMt/I333QlqQKxMIyJISulRMl8vk/1A5SYtJWkwiMYkkJJJQSEoiKUWwG/3spd/F/3WV6zXka81mRK8iAcTSNtBllTx  LbOvySOjr3v5PXHU/YE8a5G70mTfdKmG0fmnIn96zEJbENn5 ZN/DEAaGD0RQjRMimiCFospctkQBBAVH5PgZB89AX5AEwhRFUMwEDSiKRkpUWNNEu/PnHkhqrXNi9 c8ZehQJIvadvH7XJv01bojmxt7mq9PbT0orxS3z70M7H2p076CmVPbvyuITQ0tFSvBP/NHalSXM97JdICnNFEsTS7TdjQldlwONqszW07ktLZQQikFhGl8mAAJCvPCAECABVhS8Ciq74/8MsopHJA/38 JGb6v0m91H/5G oCmEQuGHX29Dw2DnBkeWEqrax5Vdf22iygH7/4uqRpX9FvCmilLUt3fxXb57UiQPNmQE3CUvXsU8vVzr72Zv83AI239zN 9tJ82YOtmADKHCigNWt7myLuLg4Dw8POu9N eYFZp5uxakJAJXfHCP5v2oDMF0ZuxQChBACgVTV6fjd hulHv3av cW2z23I7/BV61h/0BDp260VMJisaSvX9BlMoDq4fvRAFztWgiECK6BaUNtUo OH83U9pnXE8cu9s/UHb5qampFRUXEub VBXnlZD5dLgUgaoRv/SgSyaQNfRaT94/ dV/PZ3E3fN0V9g/VPXl48uTJtWvXOkaHE/BRsBJExbkGAUge1ATIz lQxewY GOndQie9Hk7jmENZxqXlZWVlpbWuCwdIYRQxQIEQoT8KnX5XAKApiklJSUVHk9dR/dz9xvDACfKY4yG18wxBuNcv34dauaoybdgWOvH8fLyOn/ fK2tXl5eLdIbDGsSPHnAGIzzccIwVLspCYa1Znj0xRgMj74Yg HRF2OwhkffkgOBZj89G3soYbVX1e0z6Ge/eTkts/jj1U7fz5UQhmGKaTh8ESBUlrE56DvDhKPTnVQrnqvcBc8wsBbW ORBqVMf1 dLg2aezP84WpHw1KzuNiY6GuqaRjZ9xm5JEyIAADIjJuRrd2tTPU11dW1TlyELYraFf9/HwUyHr23qPDj89NuqqyjK7h aM6ybrbGOtoldv0k70ovwXwTWBI2MvgiAZTwkMuyr//mOH 107vC4jkqo2vALbawHTlvrY6KvIn58dNnM0BAd51srPZSpd7fO35D5Re4f2Y6Vf3Vz6OJfrrr8LyxiR7iG4NJvs1ePmeN4d9dQLYLOOTxh4Pib7nNXxPXSyT29aua0YbRxWlR/jS/5C8CYjEOSdeSqVG6kaARAU1ynGbErbnnN/mG5Y8J8V4pGgGiKJEk2gFn3wWYAAODiEHr5YOD1ay kbpYkRQNL26Z7T4 2LHDXf3j03CZbn2C/3lyArurpf/Y7mHxbPMiTdX/nuuOsoEMx03qrAIDTr68S3VbHJa3y8v5332oS 3QaH30BACGWedDGX6/0HTMhvPvpiRWXSyKE6IKr0REr9yVlvxbIVNsQAtq0XExXToqRfHrMMjQxYpXm55cjpAxA6BnogaBQSCEkzUp/IH2bFWC p6JVmpSylN8KaMTDd1nEFKLw/Q0IPZ Vm0O8AicvbD sIhET5R6c8l14du wlXv6WLYpu7omeM7TOo5UUlYCVEaS8ovb2cocAtEIABCNgNPpp/2xo8yqZuCEmsGXvecOxmiNjb4IPiwyqPcMixx/yX9xDIcES0BI9vjO3TLLgKkTvF04ALJiM1XiKaogX7WoOL7yteRbK5/i2tpbwYW7z9u071vjFn14RQNTVGMLZxU5mRWPVbrM/nXiWd9f7ykjhBDLwraj8o5jkdu7jvcwUiHvvyuvDPbKF5FHLKoMZVRj2Y1lPWqyd zERSN Lpk61MWAU/I6W9Au6Dt3dTz8Ygpqws2RAABAxW3m2nEn/XcBALCMRqzf mz28g2jffPFBE9D29C2j6mq4sHHMg7Y8jd7VcTGrdMP55ax CZ2gxb6DcfhiymMeP/ /Y0bN2pdrt6lS5cW7BOGKQhf84AxGL7iDGMwjlQq/XhrnRsxrLXhpKSkqKvXvlNeSkpKi/QGw5qE4 vrm5SUVGvrsGHDWqQ3GNYk NQNYzAcvhiDNTl8U1NTAwMDAwMD09LSPkeHMExxioYvRVGJiYkikagqalNTU0UiUWJiYq3S8hj2xSj6pfGJEyf27dtXfUtiYmJiYiIAFBcXDxo06NN3DcMao joK49UAHB1dY2JiYmJiXF1dZVv fgeU5 S9N2dMyeu110fCPuvY lpqCmyX0REBJ/PB4AJEyZoampqampOmDABAPh8/uLFiz9f/6iX yYO nFHFi5fgtWBJbGd2NJ9wLBmYhEalorsFxYWJhKJACA6OlooFAqFwujoaAAQiUTh4eFNbJR uTfEyUxbVUlZVc/aa9LurLLKZ0oy983wdTJW56nwjToN3pxFAQDQOTH9uARBEByrGVdkAFCWfWDmILd2Omqqula9x227XYQAUOGJsZZcy7HxhQgAUN6R783V3SNuigFA jx UWC3jvptVLQsPILWXsqvnIlInh4PC3A31 Tx1PU79FlyRdLE94G1NEVP3fr27Ss/dbt169a4ceNqPdXERll6riPnb/2fmY6SMP33edPHjzZzvzLHlk2/2DnSa3xqp58X7VlnxRO KLU0Z0MuAEs3IOZM2FdKQHB12ynR7 LGfDM6tWvY2qN9dHNOLp06yZ82ydjuozNwddQP7kN njP0q jOidOnHjMKTQrtzEOi8zP6BxxpO33NwQ1tiy9t GXBkB/17x4JNibyj0/0CjiqGxK fZm9RumbQr32So13HWtdlHusTUhIEFSTkJCAPkKS5IULF4RCYVRUVEBAQEBAQFRUlFAoPHbsWGlpaXZ29o8//rh3796PD2xM0f6hajy/3QKEpFdndVAy/t/fQrp6u4/WeHANx52RVG3IWtqZaz7xXKn8IfV0fQ udvDxMoQQot fnmjFbTt0wiATja Wp4sRQvSbrf3UtAMOFMpflC7c46 m4h2bR5MPVntw b473lZvDWMYjjRlJkBCo1HOZrP79OkDAG5ubvJVCHd399LS0uPHj58 fVosFhcXF2dkZCCECKLRbAnZy1Or5q44cPn GyFoqJES5F4uQXRxWuoLtnu4Z8N1YsUZt 9JX98dqL2jYgNNSlncNwIEKgSh9c3yjcEn/aJP2s67Nt2RCwCye7cyyoX5wcYqIVW7g8PrHFp87/pd5LCstwHO7WAwjpLL9CYd4O7uHhcXJ/85JydHJpNZWVnJVyGio6MnTJjg4uIif1gf6uHGkcNWloxYG72mmylPdGLWwEUAAIBoGqB28BOV1RArIZoGjsO0Y3 MblstP9mwIgpL7yVdz2 jqfr477i0uZ27twFACLHNgnefmOVUNU8ieHqWbJRJo6padRhDsQg142YfzOVylZWVqy lCQSC27dvN3wUmXUznXT5YcG4AV0d7Z26OJgoEQAALENHR0Mq9XyyqMbeKqoqUCoUVdV8V7F3toYnd56pd7SpYm2myQYAVHRx4dhN1MRjN2K/FWwcu BiEQKOrYs95 2dh9C 2u4WOsqg4uBiDRkXkvLwhfkMxmab9xvhqW9q qGM65s3b6ysrBQ5eOrUqSKRyM/Pj8fjAYBYLE5OTl61apWKSkP3ySHQw6MxcXdKDC31iOKCVzf/3n2e7jdtVGe WXt28pY1sYmCNnxOae7D1IuPlR06mJB392yPSy8xa8vLuXUuC5x6fMW/ /uGmBPPOXyetPBFxqW/r5V1cjLjEiUp8wZPexi4/4/xrk492t7fOG97Ye QAfa2 q/jNkb9mUFpqNHCN9nXTiXmmLi0U2frWvEzd67ZcuIVV4srzn92 2KmzNrGAJ 9MYuCp2512rJly7hx41asWCE/cMWKFcHBwe/evWvsuNLM3ZO8bPRUOSwOV13XzLrrtBMCGiGEaEHatkn97AzbKHN4Wm3dZyQUIUTnnY/w7aSnwlFSN3GdePgdjVDJvf2z/F3NNHkcJVXddh7jD7ykkCxzeRdV4 //qjhHo15u89ZU7boyS4aQ5Fl8xHce7XRUlDg8LXOXwOgssqIf2QdmDXI21eBylDVMnEYfeE015/QBazlEeXl5UlJSrUzj/v37Kxj9CKE5c Y8e/ZMXV2dx NJJJLFixcbGzd/QoJhimvqfR5qIwjC0dFRIBDMmDHDwsJCKBQaGBh8kp5hWKP afgCQFBQUFBQkPxnHLvYl4SzLTAGw GLMRhHvuZVi1gs/vJdwbCmwqMvxmA4fDEGa3L43rx5Mzg4ODg4 NatW5 jQximuCZkGicnJxcVFVVd0nDr1q2ioqLk5GScaYy1FEXXfRMSEg4ePFh9S3JycnJyMgCUlJT4 Ph8 q5hWGMUHX3lkQoAzs7OkZGRkZGRzs7O8i0XL178HD2rIM25e 5k6jucaYzVgfVQsU/  fPna2hoAMCYMWP4fD6fzx8zZgwAaGhoLFiw4PP1j3p1YPKwn36/92UzjZEwdZ2vufaQPQJ8OWWrhlceapHmXPt9ziAP70VJBXjEb/UUDd lS5cWFRUBQGxsrEgkEolEsbGxAFBUVLRs2bImNkq/2j 2i5WRtrqGtqmj97R99z5kGmcdCB3axVJPU8vAwiUw p480zg31pevoqKi0sYu9JoM6q6EjN6fnGjDt5l46j0CAJR/bHQHve7LbosBQPri1NKg3g5mulqG1p4//Hq5Ki4lz04sHtm9g6Gmpp6Zff8V1yQA4hvrJq9Jbz/zz9Xe3Ca K zLU/TUrVevXvJTtzt37kyePLnWU01slKXrPDx0U7CpjpLw7t6w0J/Hm3a ONOGTb/c/YP3z2m2ExbsWNmeK3pZZmHGhjwAls7QzfHzunKA4OpaKlVWQp638lAvndyElTOmDaON07YM0PZe/tv33Yf/ssDfI9I1afaME4Yzzs5w4SFR4hy/oKPmU1bsXWNefHnj7EWBP mlHQgyIgpOTPEOOq4zav6WCDv1srfvddspAbB6rL6eQbCIsj/PA8gafytYi1I0fAcMGKCuru7s7BwXFyc/jfP09AwMDExJSendu/fDhw8jIyN79OgxfPhwRV5Nxfabb20BAMDdvujswXHXbhWDjVpa9JoznBEH4lb5fMjWpPIAgKPV1tbOTlm IXvjuuPs7//aMbOPKgB03vTmovOKP1PWDxiootVv6caQi8OmTuQ4pp40nXXuFyceoHd/rt9d4B2dFD5MiwBwsym 0mHSoTPvR44S7FlzUPj1xoubgg1rJLwRLJz/xhiKhi bzfb09AQAFxcXefi6urqWlpbGx8efO3dOLBaXlJRkZWUhxTKNX51et3DNoasP3ohAQ5WUILdyKaJLbt58yXab36ORTOOsO/elbzKHGP9esYEmpSzuWyECFYLQ9IpYF5Tw7bYEm9nJUxy4ACDLvpNZLioYY6k1tmp3sHuTQ4vv38hEdhGeuAYtkzX5et/OnTvv3r1b/nNubi5Jku3bt5evQsTGxk6dOtXJyUn sD7Uo6iQkWtLA1dErvAw4RadmjdkKQBUZBqDQpnG9j8f2hViXkcl5NL7l1IL2vBVn5z889Ysl68qMo1Ng2KP/OJQPdPYgo3u4Uxj5vtHKw9cLldJSan6UppQKExPT2/4KDL7Vgbp9P2cMf3cHewc3eyMOfJMYwMHBwPqZmJKrUxjFRUoExZ9yDTu5NQBnt59rt7BukpH04pM4 SIidHUj4dSogcLoiZGJBch4Ng42XHepT CdtV2b6utDCp2zh0g8 KlfLw0xmDsyWGLhE f1Mo0trCwUOTgWbNmFRUV fj4yK 6lEgkly9fXrJkSZ0XYVYh6MfHYw nlxpY6BElha9vx/ RSHtNHuGqYWrJSonZsCtZoMbnlOU upn8RMneypjM GPnkbslpua83DsX7iGHbl35GXs27jj5gsPnSt /zLwcf6PMxsGUS5RcCQuc9ejb3b PdXbsbv5gc9iuQs9R/TrZ6r35M2rrX5mUhhotenv/xumkXBNnS3W2bnt 1u71MSdf87SUxfnP05OzpB2tqzKNZfcOrz9Oek8b7qSCB jW6x Nvs7OzpqamtWX0mQymUTSyJ3u2LaTtkV9r31p4fC 3bp7 q3KNHSwMVYGAE7Hn/af2jiEe2HZmCE /iFzt154VgZKHrM2z 1RfGDSYN Rs2LOPnpPmHy3PWHnaPOMzZOHDxw4bPzSQ9dfFSEg722Zs100ZOm87m0ACL1BSxb2frd97tZsSrPfupMHZzi93Ts7yM9n8P/m70x8KkQAwDIO3Jaw83/GN3 dGDDQb Qvm IfCPBKL8MQCKHTp0/XyjRWfC0MIRQWFvbixYs2bdrIM40XLFhgZGT0eXqLYTV8gkxje3t7oVA4ZcoUc3NzkUikr6//SXqGYY36BJnGw4cPr1ruxbGLfUn4mgeMwVgKfMuAYa0UR36TqFpbG175wrBWAk8eMAbD4YsxGK5pjDEYrmmMMRiuaYwxGK5pjDEYa9m5d4rs9x paYxE6XtDh7iZa6pw1Q1s 46PuSnCF1S2Yqz1I0a0dB9aD/rlwXlhZ1X9wncePrxlSqfXv//07bzE8pbuFVYv1o9GCt2q7L9R05jV9sejD27sCx8zxMd31PzYsAHKb69eeYrPTFstTt/ufEX2 6/UNCaUlCrPZumCnDxKrb2VEV4bb72uhtrimsZ1KLu74RtdrV5rMyR1P4 1BpzaqZD1 E/VNEbFN38NHLT4fUjcqen2yor8erCWwcnLzW/S7WT 9TWNUdG15X5 66Tjjp5e2ksHX47XqrESrwibffC/sKYx/TZu3LBVxT8cPoFjlwHYGWLX4cP74prG8prG2reXBIRmeS2J6KtakJOTk5OTkytEfF11XOq4lZp37DGuaVxZ01j2cmOvWnNdju3cVFlzziqwLwDXNMYYDNc0xhgM1zTGGAx/o4QxGA5fjMFwTWOMwfDoizEYDl MwXBNY4zBcE1jjMFwTWOMwZhX05h6us2/reWwnS9w8jHGvJrGhKpBu44dLfVV8eWM2Cf40vgLYxkO2nAW3xUFA2BkTWPR/gAtrcADxfIjJE//XjTco72 praxndePG1Py5HMK tnBKd5d7doaaGmoaxp06DZyVWIu3VjrGNMwr6YxSD 8ECo4Mdk7KN5wzKIdyy0ld3YvifAfJDydGOamQr/PTLqSb7945yZnlfKXFzYtXDpysuntg0GGRH2tN/E9YK0B42oaQ7XwpR79vjpO9M3GpPXBhgRAX88OZT17bFp/Ysq gDYAQPCte/br48oB8OxYkNR5 ckrpUFD29TTuqaCvwisNWFcTePqxHfTsqrXJVa27d3TaM2ptPtkgFvN3ptZtefJ3uWJaGjDqrN1BROusdaFcTWNa0Hw0Q513pSMo8QGiqLrbx1jIsbVNK6OZ 9qC1kf6hLL7ielvOM5uFo38EdZT sYI/2jhbOFCxfKlyOqaGhoNHrDSU4H 45E/N61u22CXfS54sf5FSvPyt0mTO3 x5yJAerzf/a20STzX4DjyH5tHR1Nynf9umi/hp e6InYZpSvSdUrsa1DZg L X7OiNlk6CBLyZ1dERse2v70m58WAfXekbK 1jEmYl5N4 pzA0Lff9PJXSHaSRGjfP3HbX7qOPfIsfCuqs1qHWMgXNMYYzBc0xhjMFzTGGMwnG2BMRgOX4zBOHUmFeOaxhgj4NEXYzAcvhiD4ZrGGIPhmsYYg GaxhiDMa mMfUk2tvQeND25zjTGGOpqFkosl/rqWlMqBq0t7ZuZ/CZMo2pnLOhXbV0Qk40cuER1hpwrl89KRDkt3Q3moBlNGRT0pDP8crlz8/Hrlq0fNe1fKm6zedoAPvUWI6OnRTZrxXVNBbt9VdRGbyvMtP4ydEFQ11NNXiqOlY9f1ifXJFPTD/9Y6KXi5UhX0VZicc3dwtYdj6HbrB1JDwVNiHq1Ver/lzUDRcSYghFT91aT03jGpnG ccneAX bTRu6d7V7cS3doYv9PYWJl5e3EWFLsxITMlzXL5vq6tK Ytzv85dFDDBLOuvYCOivtYJzSG/PxxKEPSrTTvq7zrWuvyyP7OqMNbZs2dLS0tbd01jhIR7BvF4/nuLECLvr xavS6x5E64kxJ/2P73NJLdmGPNrappRT5c3VW5TUBccf2tV6FeRvbmagX/LW76e8G NNa2kA/zyG7dutUX5fKaxnw 382tIom3qqbxrFmz1qxZIxQK5TWNFfiTkb08tTTI095CX0tT335GogRJyiWIzklLfcF292qkpnF14jupGcjBq6ousXKnvr2My2 nZtdOFWKbd7TiyQryhHR9rSvaJNaqcIL0nlc9kEql9e9ZoaVrGteieKYxpyLTuJ7WMSZiVV/5TUtLU1ZuQt5XS9Q0ro7n2Nmuel1iWXbipbc8p842DWUa1906xkic3XlWVbOHBiYPdQoNDZUvR1Th8/krV65spElrBxvi O6VOzv9z1WfK36YV/FRr9zj5xk9984Y668RPnWgrRaZ9xycvx9g4eRsWr593YK9fH994WNxp5BBH6ovs21Gzx2 5buZw6aT8we3E9 KXbjmfqcpmwdrN5RpXE/rGBOx5h46XvVAKpUqMn o4urqqqWlVX0pTSqVNp5p3Gnqrm0/aCfNHdLDzd2j//IMI6dOJlwA4FhPPnxuy7fcsxHBA7/2Hjkr6tzTMlDqNidmoWfRvnE /Yb9siXhQWGNTGODoVvP7RutfWFhYD/v0RufOC88cWrJVw1nGtfXOsZANWoap6WldevW7dKlS7imMcYINWaJTZ08AK5pjLWoGuHbpJlDFVzTGGspNa44a rKA4a1rBrh24zJA4a1oBo1jasmD7imMcYIePKAMRiePGAMViN8FfnaAtc0xloPRScPuKYx1gop rUFrmmMtUKKTh5wTWOsFWK5aWgpst /v6YxVXB923R/d0t9TU2Ddu6DZx96iBcPWz0O66cj1Sv9tX6fqaYxeW9H6LrbnX5cusNOo DK1iUbxo7SsL6ywJF5RZ//S1inVvRRZL9/fU1jjsOMMxnno2YE Q7w 31amv0AAAFVSURBVGHRpmld4OG1G4U4iah14 go9hn8H6hpzFauyo8n83MKQdezneJpd1iLwDWNP6ppjERXl0/fLuq/bmZvfJPuVg7XNK5Z0xgVJi36dsQO1Zl/bQ8yxzc/bu04JU084N9c0xjlnwv1C4rTm//3/inObRpqFmsdWN9tfdDsg/9dNY3JR1t/CNmrMfsojl3G4CRN85989LfmHfyvqmlccnbtyhSDEXv6sp7evQsAAISaiXV7HXwFXivG2dhP0OyDnZ2d09PTY2NjqyYPCtc0fjtz9cLhu95L2Wp8PSOHwR9qGqtGhG1aNiamkFQ1tgvZNLiflceszXMfT98yafBWjr7diPU Az Eb0VN46VzV0aMihGwjZy85x5ZMU2BmsZ1tE4 Sb1ZKM2OGt4tqnJX5W5r0s/ bIFnwK0XrmmMMRiuaYwxGK5pjDEYnthhDIbDF2Ow/wMLZgGPkRwRmwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==[/IMG]

There are other ways of emulating multiple processes but I am comfortable with the dated Actiona to orchestrate many workflows. Such as orchestrating RabbitMQ and driving desktops ans services in the cloud.  You can target any object that is visible on the browser screen or even Ubunto desktop such as laun ching Google and DuckDuckGo. Run any command. Analyse images.
Really quite powerful tool after study of features (originally for automation of games).

When grabbing target x:y coordinates use devilspie2  or xdotool.

There are also PipeDream and Zapier.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2023-02-16
[IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAOoAAAC0CAIAAAAVcieeAAAACXBIWXMAAA7EAAAOxAGVKw4bAAAgAElEQVR4nO3dd1QUVxcA8Du7C7uAsPQOgqKAdAQlFiwkKgiiRjCKgXxqLDGW2LCC2LuJKCKKGktUjEaNKFYEsYIFAbH3QnV3qVtm5n1/LCAgZSEqTPJ x NhZ2f2veVc3r55O3cusXPnTgAYPHgwVDp69ChgGBMQAoGgpfuAYc3EaukOYFjz4fDFGIxT59abN28CAJvNrtqCEJL/oKSkZGJioqWl9QU6h2ENqzt8aZru2rWrPHwJgqj lEQiuXPnDpfLVVVV/RIdxLD61R2 BEGwWCzp6Q2oTFRjuyqf5z2jXbt22dnZFEVVf0o PHft2vXz9RXDaqk7fEmSpGlauf8vHz9F07Surq6Ojk7VdKJKSkoKTdMsVtPm05LsI5tPUt/8FOCg0qTjmKb89a3LNzKfslyDB9vzWroz/xb1Th7kg2vhsbWyokKAyvlDrZCt8Qi1R6jg0XEAYKvxdb6do1gHyi5tmbc6e5L/tCZ2nGnIBzt/GrH AfubzQH 9rwa8zHy0c6QgEXX SOjjyz/Woeo7xWwj9UdvhRFycNXmp9j0vdrFk NYBHAIgAAUTTQFE1RQNNA0YiiEEUhmgaaQhRCJE0K8gtfPlO0/dLkIwlCl2l luzG960SHx8/cODAJhzw6XyOpktvn0t8WVTOSrj4ZPHXOkqf9sX/3RoZfRFFs7g8aV4GwWYBmwUIgKJpkgSSRBSNSBKRJCIpRNKIJGkZDSRNSyRISivYfHHi4TPF7qF 5k2acMTHxwNAi0Tw52ia7xce9cLijsaAiZ1x7DZN3WEjD19SKgUKIRohmZSWSpFEgiQSWiYBUoZIElX8T9IyGS0tp8SldHkRVSKgS0VUaYlCjSPR SPnyzyGDjRp8vJzfHy8PJLqQz2N/MbQ pdEqfyh7MYCV8PuKzJJAKDzLq3/Xx87cwN9o3YOvaYceUcD0G/iw7/72s3azFDPwMxueOwTqt5XbrTphpB3Nvg6WRoZmtr2HLX09CsZAAD54ODK1VG/hUeeL0IAkrSo0YN6u9t3tDDW1zNs59J/fOSVAkWHg/ aek/dEEI0JUOIQBRFS2UEi0DyFTQaIZpGFIlkUiSTIZmMlkmRVEpLZUgqoyUyJJGSJQpNBZDg3JELkm4RPkbN vKkuQNh2bnFY1dleC7fudZdR5bzqMRClwVA5qadSnzdYU70eg8tspAyN23wHTR/DKYKnj3h66hzSnIz49eHPIeT5xe41myKfH7l5KV0KYuroavDL8l/cSNu0ahi3St7Rxjir5g 0sjoSyACkSSSymiJlC4vp0tLydIiqkREFQupUlHFvxIRVSyiRAVkYQ5Z8Eaa91r89qUCTaPCM4cvUj2GeOt/0bMVVJaXKyIMXft6dnZ09ugX8HXHyk9sgm/bu7/nV936 va04n6m1rm91qQ/efDowZlZrlyQZO/ZlSKucz WxbhDmdkPb2/y0WTRwovxlxT7PPuvaSh8KamEJmlaXE6ViMgiAVksJIsFVLGAFOWTghxZ/htp3gtJzlNJzlNpznNZ/jtSWEgVF9Pl5UhGNt4yyk84conw/HaAXjOjd DAgc0Z/wgdn0njO2WG9ekROHvzyWxh/bOET940AIASV5kAUHP079 RA7Twfva7BiYGLJ3Obu3ZgKiCvPd4/lCHBlceZDKypJgqFUnzXwMpQbQUyWQ0TQJFAo0QjRBFA0mjqn8yCsloJKMQ2fjvms49 ddldu N32g3K3obDSCCxWIDKasjOAnt3hFnbgYk/LFja/QYz9 6hB8LND3b H5jWtCCSVSBEA0cgqOaHMVSIAEEXTtVfZMahv9JWHLyWTlr18LMt/I333QlqQKxMIyJISulRMl8vk/1A5SYtJWkwiMYkkJJJQSEoiKUWwG/3spd/F/3WV6zXka81mRK8iAcTSNtBllTxLbOvySOjr3v5PXHU/YE8a5G70mTfdKmG0fmnIn96zEJbENn5 ZN/DEAaGD0RQjRMimiCFospctkQBBAVH5PgZB89AX5AEwhRFUMwEDSiKRkpUWNNEu/PnHkhqrXNi9 c8ZehQJIvadvH7XJv01bojmxt7mq9PbT0orxS3z70M7H2p076CmVPbvyuITQ0tFSvBP/NHalSXM97JdICnNFEsTS7TdjQldlwONqszW07ktLZQQikFhGl8mAAJCvPCAECABVhS8Ciq74/8MsopHJA/38 JGb6v0m91H/5G oCmEQuGHX29Dw2DnBkeWEqrax5Vdf22iygH7/4uqRpX9FvCmilLUt3fxXb57UiQPNmQE3CUvXsU8vVzr72Zv83AI239zN 9tJ82YOtmADKHCigNWt7myLuLg4Dw8POu9N eYFZp5uxakJAJXfHCP5v2oDMF0ZuxQChBACgVTV6fjd hulHv3av cW2z23I7/BV61h/0BDp260VMJisaSvX9BlMoDq4fvRAFztWgiECK6BaUNtUo OH83U9pnXE8cu9s/UHb5qampFRUXEub VBXnlZD5dLgUgaoRv/SgSyaQNfRaT94/ dV/PZ3E3fN0V9g/VPXl48uTJtWvXOkaHE/BRsBJExbkGAUge1ATIz lQxewY GOndQie9Hk7jmENZxqXlZWVlpbWuCwdIYRQxQIEQoT8KnX5XAKApiklJSUVHk9dR/dz9xvDACfKY4yG18wxBuNcv34dauaoybdgWOvH8fLyOn/ fK2tXl5eLdIbDGsSPHnAGIzzccIwVLspCYa1Znj0xRgMj74Yg HRF2OwhkffkgOBZj89G3soYbVX1e0z6Ge/eTkts/jj1U7fz5UQhmGKaTh8ESBUlrE56DvDhKPTnVQrnqvcBc8wsBbW ORBqVMf1 dLg2aezP84WpHw1KzuNiY6GuqaRjZ9xm5JEyIAADIjJuRrd2tTPU11dW1TlyELYraFf9/HwUyHr23qPDj89NuqqyjK7h aM6ybrbGOtoldv0k70ovwXwTWBI2MvgiAZTwkMuyr//mOH 107vC4jkqo2vALbawHTlvrY6KvIn58dNnM0BAd51srPZSpd7fO35D5Re4f2Y6Vf3Vz6OJfrrr8LyxiR7iG4NJvs1ePmeN4d9dQLYLOOTxh4Pib7nNXxPXSyT29aua0YbRxWlR/jS/5C8CYjEOSdeSqVG6kaARAU1ynGbErbnnN/mG5Y8J8V4pGgGiKJEk2gFn3wWYAAODiEHr5YOD1ay kbpYkRQNL26Z7T4 2LHDXf3j03CZbn2C/3lyArurpf/Y7mHxbPMiTdX/nuuOsoEMx03qrAIDTr68S3VbHJa3y8v5332oS 3QaH30BACGWedDGX6/0HTMhvPvpiRWXSyKE6IKr0REr9yVlvxbIVNsQAtq0XExXToqRfHrMMjQxYpXm55cjpAxA6BnogaBQSCEkzUp/IH2bFWC p6JVmpSylN8KaMTDd1nEFKLw/Q0IPZ Vm0O8AicvbD sIhET5R6c8l14du wlXv6WLYpu7omeM7TOo5UUlYCVEaS8ovb2cocAtEIABCNgNPpp/2xo8yqZuCEmsGXvecOxmiNjb4IPiwyqPcMixx/yX9xDIcES0BI9vjO3TLLgKkTvF04ALJiM1XiKaogX7WoOL7yteRbK5/i2tpbwYW7z9u071vjFn14RQNTVGMLZxU5mRWPVbrM/nXiWd9f7ykjhBDLwraj8o5jkdu7jvcwUiHvvyuvDPbKF5FHLKoMZVRj2Y1lPWqyd zERSN Lpk61MWAU/I6W9Au6Dt3dTz8Ygpqws2RAABAxW3m2nEn/XcBALCMRqzf mz28g2jffPFBE9D29C2j6mq4sHHMg7Y8jd7VcTGrdMP55ax CZ2gxb6DcfhiymMeP/ /Y0bN2pdrt6lS5cW7BOGKQhf84AxGL7iDGMwjlQq/XhrnRsxrLXhpKSkqKvXvlNeSkpKi/QGw5qE4 vrm5SUVGvrsGHDWqQ3GNYk NQNYzAcvhiDNTl8U1NTAwMDAwMD09LSPkeHMExxioYvRVGJiYkikagqalNTU0UiUWJiYq3S8hj2xSj6pfGJEyf27dtXfUtiYmJiYiIAFBcXDxo06NN3DcMao joK49UAHB1dY2JiYmJiXF1dZVv fgeU5 S9N2dMyeu110fCPuvY lpqCmyX0REBJ/PB4AJEyZoampqampOmDABAPh8/uLFiz9f/6iX yYO nFHFi5fgtWBJbGd2NJ9wLBmYhEalorsFxYWJhKJACA6OlooFAqFwujoaAAQiUTh4eFNbJR uTfEyUxbVUlZVc/aa9LurLLKZ0oy983wdTJW56nwjToN3pxFAQDQOTH9uARBEByrGVdkAFCWfWDmILd2Omqqula9x227XYQAUOGJsZZcy7HxhQgAUN6R783V3SNuigFA jx UWC3jvptVLQsPILWXsqvnIlInh4PC3A31 Tx1PU79FlyRdLE94G1NEVP3fr27Ss/dbt169a4ceNqPdXERll6riPnb/2fmY6SMP33edPHjzZzvzLHlk2/2DnSa3xqp58X7VlnxRO KLU0Z0MuAEs3IOZM2FdKQHB12ynR7 LGfDM6tWvY2qN9dHNOLp06yZ82ydjuozNwddQP7kN njP0q jOidOnHjMKTQrtzEOi8zP6BxxpO33NwQ1tiy9t GXBkB/17x4JNibyj0/0CjiqGxK fZm9RumbQr32So13HWtdlHusTUhIEFSTkJCAPkKS5IULF4RCYVRUVEBAQEBAQFRUlFAoPHbsWGlpaXZ29o8//rh3796PD2xM0f6hajy/3QKEpFdndVAy/t/fQrp6u4/WeHANx52RVG3IWtqZaz7xXKn8IfV0fQ udvDxMoQQot fnmjFbTt0wiATja Wp4sRQvSbrf3UtAMOFMpflC7c46 m4h2bR5MPVntw b473lZvDWMYjjRlJkBCo1HOZrP79OkDAG5ubvJVCHd399LS0uPHj58 fVosFhcXF2dkZCCECKLRbAnZy1Or5q44cPn GyFoqJES5F4uQXRxWuoLtnu4Z8N1YsUZt 9JX98dqL2jYgNNSlncNwIEKgSh9c3yjcEn/aJP2s67Nt2RCwCye7cyyoX5wcYqIVW7g8PrHFp87/pd5LCstwHO7WAwjpLL9CYd4O7uHhcXJ/85JydHJpNZWVnJVyGio6MnTJjg4uIif1gf6uHGkcNWloxYG72mmylPdGLWwEUAAIBoGqB28BOV1RArIZoGjsO0Y3 MblstP9mwIgpL7yVdz2 jqfr477i0uZ27twFACLHNgnefmOVUNU8ieHqWbJRJo6padRhDsQg142YfzOVylZWVqy lCQSC27dvN3wUmXUznXT5YcG4AV0d7Z26OJgoEQAALENHR0Mq9XyyqMbeKqoqUCoUVdV8V7F3toYnd56pd7SpYm2myQYAVHRx4dhN1MRjN2K/FWwcu BiEQKOrYs95 2dh9C 2u4WOsqg4uBiDRkXkvLwhfkMxmab9xvhqW9q qGM65s3b6ysrBQ5eOrUqSKRyM/Pj8fjAYBYLE5OTl61apWKSkP3ySHQw6MxcXdKDC31iOKCVzf/3n2e7jdtVGe WXt28pY1sYmCNnxOae7D1IuPlR06mJB392yPSy8xa8vLuXUuC5x6fMW/ /uGmBPPOXyetPBFxqW/r5V1cjLjEiUp8wZPexi4/4/xrk492t7fOG97Ye QAfa2 q/jNkb9mUFpqNHCN9nXTiXmmLi0U2frWvEzd67ZcuIVV4srzn92 2KmzNrGAJ 9MYuCp2512rJly7hx41asWCE/cMWKFcHBwe/evWvsuNLM3ZO8bPRUOSwOV13XzLrrtBMCGiGEaEHatkn97AzbKHN4Wm3dZyQUIUTnnY/w7aSnwlFSN3GdePgdjVDJvf2z/F3NNHkcJVXddh7jD7ykkCxzeRdV4 //qjhHo15u89ZU7boyS4aQ5Fl8xHce7XRUlDg8LXOXwOgssqIf2QdmDXI21eBylDVMnEYfeE015/QBazlEeXl5UlJSrUzj/v37Kxj9CKE5c Y8e/ZMXV2dx NJJJLFixcbGzd/QoJhimvqfR5qIwjC0dFRIBDMmDHDwsJCKBQaGBh8kp5hWKP afgCQFBQUFBQkPxnHLvYl4SzLTAGw GLMRhHvuZVi1gs/vJdwbCmwqMvxmA4fDEGa3L43rx5Mzg4ODg4 NatW5 jQximuCZkGicnJxcVFVVd0nDr1q2ioqLk5GScaYy1FEXXfRMSEg4ePFh9S3JycnJyMgCUlJT4 Ph8 q5hWGMUHX3lkQoAzs7OkZGRkZGRzs7O8i0XL178HD2rIM25e 5k6jucaYzVgfVQsU/fPna2hoAMCYMWP4fD6fzx8zZgwAaGhoLFiw4PP1j3p1YPKwn36/92UzjZEwdZ2vufaQPQJ8OWWrhlceapHmXPt9ziAP70VJBXjEb/UUDd lS5cWFRUBQGxsrEgkEolEsbGxAFBUVLRs2bImNkq/2j 2i5WRtrqGtqmj97R99z5kGmcdCB3axVJPU8vAwiUw p480zg31pevoqKi0sYu9JoM6q6EjN6fnGjDt5l46j0CAJR/bHQHve7LbosBQPri1NKg3g5mulqG1p4//Hq5Ki4lz04sHtm9g6Gmpp6Zff8V1yQA4hvrJq9Jbz/zz9Xe3Ca K zLU/TUrVevXvJTtzt37kyePLnWU01slKXrPDx0U7CpjpLw7t6w0J/Hm3a ONOGTb/c/YP3z2m2ExbsWNmeK3pZZmHGhjwAls7QzfHzunKA4OpaKlVWQp638lAvndyElTOmDaON07YM0PZe/tv33Yf/ssDfI9I1afaME4Yzzs5w4SFR4hy/oKPmU1bsXWNefHnj7EWBP mlHQgyIgpOTPEOOq4zav6WCDv1srfvddspAbB6rL6eQbCIsj/PA8gafytYi1I0fAcMGKCuru7s7BwXFyc/jfP09AwMDExJSendu/fDhw8jIyN79OgxfPhwRV5Nxfabb20BAMDdvujswXHXbhWDjVpa9JoznBEH4lb5fMjWpPIAgKPV1tbOTlm IXvjuuPs7//aMbOPKgB03vTmovOKP1PWDxiootVv6caQi8OmTuQ4pp40nXXuFyceoHd/rt9d4B2dFD5MiwBwsym 0mHSoTPvR44S7FlzUPj1xoubgg1rJLwRLJz/xhiKhi bzfb09AQAFxcXefi6urqWlpbGx8efO3dOLBaXlJRkZWUhxTKNX51et3DNoasP3ohAQ5WUILdyKaJLbt58yXab36ORTOOsO/elbzKHGP9esYEmpSzuWyECFYLQ9IpYF5Tw7bYEm9nJUxy4ACDLvpNZLioYY6k1tmp3sHuTQ4vv38hEdhGeuAYtkzX5et/OnTvv3r1b/nNubi5Jku3bt5evQsTGxk6dOtXJyUn sD7Uo6iQkWtLA1dErvAw4RadmjdkKQBUZBqDQpnG9j8f2hViXkcl5NL7l1IL2vBVn5z889Ysl68qMo1Ng2KP/OJQPdPYgo3u4Uxj5vtHKw9cLldJSan6UppQKExPT2/4KDL7Vgbp9P2cMf3cHewc3eyMOfJMYwMHBwPqZmJKrUxjFRUoExZ9yDTu5NQBnt59rt7BukpH04pM4 SIidHUj4dSogcLoiZGJBch4Ng42XHepT CdtV2b6utDCp2zh0g8 KlfLw0xmDsyWGLhE f1Mo0trCwUOTgWbNmFRUV fj4yK 6lEgkly9fXrJkSZ0XYVYh6MfHYw nlxpY6BElha9vx/ RSHtNHuGqYWrJSonZsCtZoMbnlOU upn8RMneypjM GPnkbslpua83DsX7iGHbl35GXs27jj5gsPnSt /zLwcf6PMxsGUS5RcCQuc9ejb3b PdXbsbv5gc9iuQs9R/TrZ6r35M2rrX5mUhhotenv/xumkXBNnS3W2bnt 1u71MSdf87SUxfnP05OzpB2tqzKNZfcOrz9Oek8b7qSCB jW6x Nvs7OzpqamtWX0mQymUTSyJ3u2LaTtkV9r31p4fC 3bp7 q3KNHSwMVYGAE7Hn/af2jiEe2HZmCE /iFzt154VgZKHrM2z 1RfGDSYN Rs2LOPnpPmHy3PWHnaPOMzZOHDxw4bPzSQ9dfFSEg722Zs100ZOm87m0ACL1BSxb2frd97tZsSrPfupMHZzi93Ts7yM9n8P/m70x8KkQAwDIO3Jaw83/GN3 dGDDQb Qvm IfCPBKL8MQCKHTp0/XyjRWfC0MIRQWFvbixYs2bdrIM40XLFhgZGT0eXqLYTV8gkxje3t7oVA4ZcoUc3NzkUikr6//SXqGYY36BJnGw4cPr1ruxbGLfUn4mgeMwVgKfMuAYa0UR36TqFpbG175wrBWAk8eMAbD4YsxGK5pjDEYrmmMMRiuaYwxGK5pjDEYa9m5d4rs9x paYxE6XtDh7iZa6pw1Q1s 46PuSnCF1S2Yqz1I0a0dB9aD/rlwXlhZ1X9wncePrxlSqfXv//07bzE8pbuFVYv1o9GCt2q7L9R05jV9sejD27sCx8zxMd31PzYsAHKb69eeYrPTFstTt/ufEX2 6/UNCaUlCrPZumCnDxKrb2VEV4bb72uhtrimsZ1KLu74RtdrV5rMyR1P4 1BpzaqZD1 E/VNEbFN38NHLT4fUjcqen2yor8erCWwcnLzW/S7WT 9TWNUdG15X5 66Tjjp5e2ksHX47XqrESrwibffC/sKYx/TZu3LBVxT8cPoFjlwHYGWLX4cP74prG8prG2reXBIRmeS2J6KtakJOTk5OTkytEfF11XOq4lZp37DGuaVxZ01j2cmOvWnNdju3cVFlzziqwLwDXNMYYDNc0xhgM1zTGGAx/o4QxGA5fjMFwTWOMwfDoizEYDl MwXBNY4zBcE1jjMFwTWOMwZhX05h6us2/reWwnS9w8jHGvJrGhKpBu44dLfVV8eWM2Cf40vgLYxkO2nAW3xUFA2BkTWPR/gAtrcADxfIjJE//XjTco72 praxndePG1Py5HMK tnBKd5d7doaaGmoaxp06DZyVWIu3VjrGNMwr6YxSD 8ECo4Mdk7KN5wzKIdyy0ld3YvifAfJDydGOamQr/PTLqSb7945yZnlfKXFzYtXDpysuntg0GGRH2tN/E9YK0B42oaQ7XwpR79vjpO9M3GpPXBhgRAX88OZT17bFp/Ysq gDYAQPCte/br48oB8OxYkNR5 ckrpUFD29TTuqaCvwisNWFcTePqxHfTsqrXJVa27d3TaM2ptPtkgFvN3ptZtefJ3uWJaGjDqrN1BROusdaFcTWNa0Hw0Q513pSMo8QGiqLrbx1jIsbVNK6OZ 9qC1kf6hLL7ielvOM5uFo38EdZT sYI/2jhbOFCxfKlyOqaGhoNHrDSU4H 45E/N61u22CXfS54sf5FSvPyt0mTO3 x5yJAerzf/a20STzX4DjyH5tHR1Nynf9umi/hp e6InYZpSvSdUrsa1DZg L X7OiNlk6CBLyZ1dERse2v70m58WAfXekbK 1jEmYl5N4 pzA0Lff9PJXSHaSRGjfP3HbX7qOPfIsfCuqs1qHWMgXNMYYzBc0xhjMFzTGGMwnG2BMRgOX4zBOHUmFeOaxhgj4NEXYzAcvhiD4ZrGGIPhmsYYg GaxhiDMa mMfUk2tvQeND25zjTGGOpqFkosl/rqWlMqBq0t7ZuZ/CZMo2pnLOhXbV0Qk40cuER1hpwrl89KRDkt3Q3moBlNGRT0pDP8crlz8/Hrlq0fNe1fKm6zedoAPvUWI6OnRTZrxXVNBbt9VdRGbyvMtP4ydEFQ11NNXiqOlY9f1ifXJFPTD/9Y6KXi5UhX0VZicc3dwtYdj6HbrB1JDwVNiHq1Ver/lzUDRcSYghFT91aT03jGpnG ccneAX bTRu6d7V7cS3doYv9PYWJl5e3EWFLsxITMlzXL5vq6tK Ytzv85dFDDBLOuvYCOivtYJzSG/PxxKEPSrTTvq7zrWuvyyP7OqMNbZs2dLS0tbd01jhIR7BvF4/nuLECLvr xavS6x5E64kxJ/2P73NJLdmGPNrappRT5c3VW5TUBccf2tV6FeRvbmagX/LW76e8G NNa2kA/zyG7dutUX5fKaxnw 382tIom3qqbxrFmz1qxZIxQK5TWNFfiTkb08tTTI095CX0tT335GogRJyiWIzklLfcF292qkpnF14jupGcjBq6ousXKnvr2My2 nZtdOFWKbd7TiyQryhHR9rSvaJNaqcIL0nlc9kEql9e9ZoaVrGteieKYxpyLTuJ7WMSZiVV/5TUtLU1ZuQt5XS9Q0ro7n2Nmuel1iWXbipbc8p842DWUa1906xkic3XlWVbOHBiYPdQoNDZUvR1Th8/krV65spElrBxvi O6VOzv9z1WfK36YV/FRr9zj5xk9984Y668RPnWgrRaZ9xycvx9g4eRsWr593YK9fH994WNxp5BBH6ovs21Gzx2 5buZw6aT8we3E9 KXbjmfqcpmwdrN5RpXE/rGBOx5h46XvVAKpUqMn o4urqqqWlVX0pTSqVNp5p3Gnqrm0/aCfNHdLDzd2j//IMI6dOJlwA4FhPPnxuy7fcsxHBA7/2Hjkr6tzTMlDqNidmoWfRvnE /Yb9siXhQWGNTGODoVvP7RutfWFhYD/v0RufOC88cWrJVw1nGtfXOsZANWoap6WldevW7dKlS7imMcYINWaJTZ08AK5pjLWoGuHbpJlDFVzTGGspNa44a rKA4a1rBrh24zJA4a1oBo1jasmD7imMcYIePKAMRiePGAMViN8FfnaAtc0xloPRScPuKYx1gop rUFrmmMtUKKTh5wTWOsFWK5aWgpst /v6YxVXB923R/d0t9TU2Ddu6DZx96iBcPWz0O66cj1Sv9tX6fqaYxeW9H6LrbnX5cusNOo DK1iUbxo7SsL6ywJF5RZ//S1inVvRRZL9/fU1jjsOMMxnno2YE Q7w 31amv0AAAFVSURBVGHRpmld4OG1G4U4iah14 go9hn8H6hpzFauyo8n83MKQdezneJpd1iLwDWNP6ppjERXl0/fLuq/bmZvfJPuVg7XNK5Z0xgVJi36dsQO1Zl/bQ8yxzc/bu04JU084N9c0xjlnwv1C4rTm//3/inObRpqFmsdWN9tfdDsg/9dNY3JR1t/CNmrMfsojl3G4CRN85989LfmHfyvqmlccnbtyhSDEXv6sp7evQsAAISaiXV7HXwFXivG2dhP0OyDnZ2d09PTY2NjqyYPCtc0fjtz9cLhu95L2Wp8PSOHwR9qGqtGhG1aNiamkFQ1tgvZNLiflceszXMfT98yafBWjr7diPU Az Eb0VN46VzV0aMihGwjZy85x5ZMU2BmsZ1tE4 Sb1ZKM2OGt4tqnJX5W5r0s/ bIFnwK0XrmmMMRiuaYwxGK5pjDEYnthhDIbDF2Ow/wMLZgGPkRwRmwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==[/IMG]
[IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAOoAAAC0CAIAAAAVcieeAAAACXBIWXMAAA7EAAAOxAGVKw4bAAAgAElEQVR4nO3dd1QUVxcA8Du7C7uAsPQOgqKAdAQlFiwkKgiiRjCKgXxqLDGW2LCC2LuJKCKKGktUjEaNKFYEsYIFAbH3QnV3qVtm5n1/LCAgZSEqTPJ x NhZ2f2veVc3r55O3cusXPnTgAYPHgwVDp69ChgGBMQAoGgpfuAYc3EaukOYFjz4fDFGIxT59abN28CAJvNrtqCEJL/oKSkZGJioqWl9QU6h2ENqzt8aZru2rWrPHwJgqj lEQiuXPnDpfLVVVV/RIdxLD61R2 BEGwWCzp6Q2oTFRjuyqf5z2jXbt22dnZFEVVf0o PHft2vXz9RXDaqk7fEmSpGlauf8vHz9F07Surq6Ojk7VdKJKSkoKTdMsVtPm05LsI5tPUt/8FOCg0qTjmKb89a3LNzKfslyDB9vzWroz/xb1Th7kg2vhsbWyokKAyvlDrZCt8Qi1R6jg0XEAYKvxdb6do1gHyi5tmbc6e5L/tCZ2nGnIBzt/GrH AfubzQH 9rwa8zHy0c6QgEXX SOjjyz/Woeo7xWwj9UdvhRFycNXmp9j0vdrFk NYBHAIgAAUTTQFE1RQNNA0YiiEEUhmgaaQhRCJE0K8gtfPlO0/dLkIwlCl2l luzG960SHx8/cODAJhzw6XyOpktvn0t8WVTOSrj4ZPHXOkqf9sX/3RoZfRFFs7g8aV4GwWYBmwUIgKJpkgSSRBSNSBKRJCIpRNKIJGkZDSRNSyRISivYfHHi4TPF7qF 5k2acMTHxwNAi0Tw52ia7xce9cLijsaAiZ1x7DZN3WEjD19SKgUKIRohmZSWSpFEgiQSWiYBUoZIElX8T9IyGS0tp8SldHkRVSKgS0VUaYlCjSPR SPnyzyGDjRp8vJzfHy8PJLqQz2N/MbQ pdEqfyh7MYCV8PuKzJJAKDzLq3/Xx87cwN9o3YOvaYceUcD0G/iw7/72s3azFDPwMxueOwTqt5XbrTphpB3Nvg6WRoZmtr2HLX09CsZAAD54ODK1VG/hUeeL0IAkrSo0YN6u9t3tDDW1zNs59J/fOSVAkWHg/ aek/dEEI0JUOIQBRFS2UEi0DyFTQaIZpGFIlkUiSTIZmMlkmRVEpLZUgqoyUyJJGSJQpNBZDg3JELkm4RPkbN vKkuQNh2bnFY1dleC7fudZdR5bzqMRClwVA5qadSnzdYU70eg8tspAyN23wHTR/DKYKnj3h66hzSnIz49eHPIeT5xe41myKfH7l5KV0KYuroavDL8l/cSNu0ahi3St7Rxjir5g 0sjoSyACkSSSymiJlC4vp0tLydIiqkREFQupUlHFvxIRVSyiRAVkYQ5Z8Eaa91r89qUCTaPCM4cvUj2GeOt/0bMVVJaXKyIMXft6dnZ09ugX8HXHyk9sgm/bu7/nV936 va04n6m1rm91qQ/efDowZlZrlyQZO/ZlSKucz WxbhDmdkPb2/y0WTRwovxlxT7PPuvaSh8KamEJmlaXE6ViMgiAVksJIsFVLGAFOWTghxZ/htp3gtJzlNJzlNpznNZ/jtSWEgVF9Pl5UhGNt4yyk84conw/HaAXjOjd DAgc0Z/wgdn0njO2WG9ekROHvzyWxh/bOET940AIASV5kAUHP079 RA7Twfva7BiYGLJ3Obu3ZgKiCvPd4/lCHBlceZDKypJgqFUnzXwMpQbQUyWQ0TQJFAo0QjRBFA0mjqn8yCsloJKMQ2fjvms49 ddldu N32g3K3obDSCCxWIDKasjOAnt3hFnbgYk/LFja/QYz9 6hB8LND3b H5jWtCCSVSBEA0cgqOaHMVSIAEEXTtVfZMahv9JWHLyWTlr18LMt/I333QlqQKxMIyJISulRMl8vk/1A5SYtJWkwiMYkkJJJQSEoiKUWwG/3spd/F/3WV6zXka81mRK8iAcTSNtBllTxLbOvySOjr3v5PXHU/YE8a5G70mTfdKmG0fmnIn96zEJbENn5 ZN/DEAaGD0RQjRMimiCFospctkQBBAVH5PgZB89AX5AEwhRFUMwEDSiKRkpUWNNEu/PnHkhqrXNi9 c8ZehQJIvadvH7XJv01bojmxt7mq9PbT0orxS3z70M7H2p076CmVPbvyuITQ0tFSvBP/NHalSXM97JdICnNFEsTS7TdjQldlwONqszW07ktLZQQikFhGl8mAAJCvPCAECABVhS8Ciq74/8MsopHJA/38 JGb6v0m91H/5G oCmEQuGHX29Dw2DnBkeWEqrax5Vdf22iygH7/4uqRpX9FvCmilLUt3fxXb57UiQPNmQE3CUvXsU8vVzr72Zv83AI239zN 9tJ82YOtmADKHCigNWt7myLuLg4Dw8POu9N eYFZp5uxakJAJXfHCP5v2oDMF0ZuxQChBACgVTV6fjd hulHv3av cW2z23I7/BV61h/0BDp260VMJisaSvX9BlMoDq4fvRAFztWgiECK6BaUNtUo OH83U9pnXE8cu9s/UHb5qampFRUXEub VBXnlZD5dLgUgaoRv/SgSyaQNfRaT94/ dV/PZ3E3fN0V9g/VPXl48uTJtWvXOkaHE/BRsBJExbkGAUge1ATIz lQxewY GOndQie9Hk7jmENZxqXlZWVlpbWuCwdIYRQxQIEQoT8KnX5XAKApiklJSUVHk9dR/dz9xvDACfKY4yG18wxBuNcv34dauaoybdgWOvH8fLyOn/ fK2tXl5eLdIbDGsSPHnAGIzzccIwVLspCYa1Znj0xRgMj74Yg HRF2OwhkffkgOBZj89G3soYbVX1e0z6Ge/eTkts/jj1U7fz5UQhmGKaTh8ESBUlrE56DvDhKPTnVQrnqvcBc8wsBbW ORBqVMf1 dLg2aezP84WpHw1KzuNiY6GuqaRjZ9xm5JEyIAADIjJuRrd2tTPU11dW1TlyELYraFf9/HwUyHr23qPDj89NuqqyjK7h aM6ybrbGOtoldv0k70ovwXwTWBI2MvgiAZTwkMuyr//mOH 107vC4jkqo2vALbawHTlvrY6KvIn58dNnM0BAd51srPZSpd7fO35D5Re4f2Y6Vf3Vz6OJfrrr8LyxiR7iG4NJvs1ePmeN4d9dQLYLOOTxh4Pib7nNXxPXSyT29aua0YbRxWlR/jS/5C8CYjEOSdeSqVG6kaARAU1ynGbErbnnN/mG5Y8J8V4pGgGiKJEk2gFn3wWYAAODiEHr5YOD1ay kbpYkRQNL26Z7T4 2LHDXf3j03CZbn2C/3lyArurpf/Y7mHxbPMiTdX/nuuOsoEMx03qrAIDTr68S3VbHJa3y8v5332oS 3QaH30BACGWedDGX6/0HTMhvPvpiRWXSyKE6IKr0REr9yVlvxbIVNsQAtq0XExXToqRfHrMMjQxYpXm55cjpAxA6BnogaBQSCEkzUp/IH2bFWC p6JVmpSylN8KaMTDd1nEFKLw/Q0IPZ Vm0O8AicvbD sIhET5R6c8l14du wlXv6WLYpu7omeM7TOo5UUlYCVEaS8ovb2cocAtEIABCNgNPpp/2xo8yqZuCEmsGXvecOxmiNjb4IPiwyqPcMixx/yX9xDIcES0BI9vjO3TLLgKkTvF04ALJiM1XiKaogX7WoOL7yteRbK5/i2tpbwYW7z9u071vjFn14RQNTVGMLZxU5mRWPVbrM/nXiWd9f7ykjhBDLwraj8o5jkdu7jvcwUiHvvyuvDPbKF5FHLKoMZVRj2Y1lPWqyd zERSN Lpk61MWAU/I6W9Au6Dt3dTz8Ygpqws2RAABAxW3m2nEn/XcBALCMRqzf mz28g2jffPFBE9D29C2j6mq4sHHMg7Y8jd7VcTGrdMP55ax CZ2gxb6DcfhiymMeP/ /Y0bN2pdrt6lS5cW7BOGKQhf84AxGL7iDGMwjlQq/XhrnRsxrLXhpKSkqKvXvlNeSkpKi/QGw5qE4 vrm5SUVGvrsGHDWqQ3GNYk NQNYzAcvhiDNTl8U1NTAwMDAwMD09LSPkeHMExxioYvRVGJiYkikagqalNTU0UiUWJiYq3S8hj2xSj6pfGJEyf27dtXfUtiYmJiYiIAFBcXDxo06NN3DcMao joK49UAHB1dY2JiYmJiXF1dZVv fgeU5 S9N2dMyeu110fCPuvY lpqCmyX0REBJ/PB4AJEyZoampqampOmDABAPh8/uLFiz9f/6iX yYO nFHFi5fgtWBJbGd2NJ9wLBmYhEalorsFxYWJhKJACA6OlooFAqFwujoaAAQiUTh4eFNbJR uTfEyUxbVUlZVc/aa9LurLLKZ0oy983wdTJW56nwjToN3pxFAQDQOTH9uARBEByrGVdkAFCWfWDmILd2Omqqula9x227XYQAUOGJsZZcy7HxhQgAUN6R783V3SNuigFA jx UWC3jvptVLQsPILWXsqvnIlInh4PC3A31 Tx1PU79FlyRdLE94G1NEVP3fr27Ss/dbt169a4ceNqPdXERll6riPnb/2fmY6SMP33edPHjzZzvzLHlk2/2DnSa3xqp58X7VlnxRO KLU0Z0MuAEs3IOZM2FdKQHB12ynR7 LGfDM6tWvY2qN9dHNOLp06yZ82ydjuozNwddQP7kN njP0q jOidOnHjMKTQrtzEOi8zP6BxxpO33NwQ1tiy9t GXBkB/17x4JNibyj0/0CjiqGxK fZm9RumbQr32So13HWtdlHusTUhIEFSTkJCAPkKS5IULF4RCYVRUVEBAQEBAQFRUlFAoPHbsWGlpaXZ29o8//rh3796PD2xM0f6hajy/3QKEpFdndVAy/t/fQrp6u4/WeHANx52RVG3IWtqZaz7xXKn8IfV0fQ udvDxMoQQot fnmjFbTt0wiATja Wp4sRQvSbrf3UtAMOFMpflC7c46 m4h2bR5MPVntw b473lZvDWMYjjRlJkBCo1HOZrP79OkDAG5ubvJVCHd399LS0uPHj58 fVosFhcXF2dkZCCECKLRbAnZy1Or5q44cPn GyFoqJES5F4uQXRxWuoLtnu4Z8N1YsUZt 9JX98dqL2jYgNNSlncNwIEKgSh9c3yjcEn/aJP2s67Nt2RCwCye7cyyoX5wcYqIVW7g8PrHFp87/pd5LCstwHO7WAwjpLL9CYd4O7uHhcXJ/85JydHJpNZWVnJVyGio6MnTJjg4uIif1gf6uHGkcNWloxYG72mmylPdGLWwEUAAIBoGqB28BOV1RArIZoGjsO0Y3 MblstP9mwIgpL7yVdz2 jqfr477i0uZ27twFACLHNgnefmOVUNU8ieHqWbJRJo6padRhDsQg142YfzOVylZWVqy lCQSC27dvN3wUmXUznXT5YcG4AV0d7Z26OJgoEQAALENHR0Mq9XyyqMbeKqoqUCoUVdV8V7F3toYnd56pd7SpYm2myQYAVHRx4dhN1MRjN2K/FWwcu BiEQKOrYs95 2dh9C 2u4WOsqg4uBiDRkXkvLwhfkMxmab9xvhqW9q qGM65s3b6ysrBQ5eOrUqSKRyM/Pj8fjAYBYLE5OTl61apWKSkP3ySHQw6MxcXdKDC31iOKCVzf/3n2e7jdtVGe WXt28pY1sYmCNnxOae7D1IuPlR06mJB392yPSy8xa8vLuXUuC5x6fMW/ /uGmBPPOXyetPBFxqW/r5V1cjLjEiUp8wZPexi4/4/xrk492t7fOG97Ye QAfa2 q/jNkb9mUFpqNHCN9nXTiXmmLi0U2frWvEzd67ZcuIVV4srzn92 2KmzNrGAJ 9MYuCp2512rJly7hx41asWCE/cMWKFcHBwe/evWvsuNLM3ZO8bPRUOSwOV13XzLrrtBMCGiGEaEHatkn97AzbKHN4Wm3dZyQUIUTnnY/w7aSnwlFSN3GdePgdjVDJvf2z/F3NNHkcJVXddh7jD7ykkCxzeRdV4 //qjhHo15u89ZU7boyS4aQ5Fl8xHce7XRUlDg8LXOXwOgssqIf2QdmDXI21eBylDVMnEYfeE015/QBazlEeXl5UlJSrUzj/v37Kxj9CKE5c Y8e/ZMXV2dx NJJJLFixcbGzd/QoJhimvqfR5qIwjC0dFRIBDMmDHDwsJCKBQaGBh8kp5hWKP afgCQFBQUFBQkPxnHLvYl4SzLTAGw GLMRhHvuZVi1gs/vJdwbCmwqMvxmA4fDEGa3L43rx5Mzg4ODg4 NatW5 jQximuCZkGicnJxcVFVVd0nDr1q2ioqLk5GScaYy1FEXXfRMSEg4ePFh9S3JycnJyMgCUlJT4 Ph8 q5hWGMUHX3lkQoAzs7OkZGRkZGRzs7O8i0XL178HD2rIM25e 5k6jucaYzVgfVQsU/fPna2hoAMCYMWP4fD6fzx8zZgwAaGhoLFiw4PP1j3p1YPKwn36/92UzjZEwdZ2vufaQPQJ8OWWrhlceapHmXPt9ziAP70VJBXjEb/UUDd lS5cWFRUBQGxsrEgkEolEsbGxAFBUVLRs2bImNkq/2j 2i5WRtrqGtqmj97R99z5kGmcdCB3axVJPU8vAwiUw p480zg31pevoqKi0sYu9JoM6q6EjN6fnGjDt5l46j0CAJR/bHQHve7LbosBQPri1NKg3g5mulqG1p4//Hq5Ki4lz04sHtm9g6Gmpp6Zff8V1yQA4hvrJq9Jbz/zz9Xe3Ca K zLU/TUrVevXvJTtzt37kyePLnWU01slKXrPDx0U7CpjpLw7t6w0J/Hm3a ONOGTb/c/YP3z2m2ExbsWNmeK3pZZmHGhjwAls7QzfHzunKA4OpaKlVWQp638lAvndyElTOmDaON07YM0PZe/tv33Yf/ssDfI9I1afaME4Yzzs5w4SFR4hy/oKPmU1bsXWNefHnj7EWBP mlHQgyIgpOTPEOOq4zav6WCDv1srfvddspAbB6rL6eQbCIsj/PA8gafytYi1I0fAcMGKCuru7s7BwXFyc/jfP09AwMDExJSendu/fDhw8jIyN79OgxfPhwRV5Nxfabb20BAMDdvujswXHXbhWDjVpa9JoznBEH4lb5fMjWpPIAgKPV1tbOTlm IXvjuuPs7//aMbOPKgB03vTmovOKP1PWDxiootVv6caQi8OmTuQ4pp40nXXuFyceoHd/rt9d4B2dFD5MiwBwsym 0mHSoTPvR44S7FlzUPj1xoubgg1rJLwRLJz/xhiKhi bzfb09AQAFxcXefi6urqWlpbGx8efO3dOLBaXlJRkZWUhxTKNX51et3DNoasP3ohAQ5WUILdyKaJLbt58yXab36ORTOOsO/elbzKHGP9esYEmpSzuWyECFYLQ9IpYF5Tw7bYEm9nJUxy4ACDLvpNZLioYY6k1tmp3sHuTQ4vv38hEdhGeuAYtkzX5et/OnTvv3r1b/nNubi5Jku3bt5evQsTGxk6dOtXJyUn sD7Uo6iQkWtLA1dErvAw4RadmjdkKQBUZBqDQpnG9j8f2hViXkcl5NL7l1IL2vBVn5z889Ysl68qMo1Ng2KP/OJQPdPYgo3u4Uxj5vtHKw9cLldJSan6UppQKExPT2/4KDL7Vgbp9P2cMf3cHewc3eyMOfJMYwMHBwPqZmJKrUxjFRUoExZ9yDTu5NQBnt59rt7BukpH04pM4 SIidHUj4dSogcLoiZGJBch4Ng42XHepT CdtV2b6utDCp2zh0g8 KlfLw0xmDsyWGLhE f1Mo0trCwUOTgWbNmFRUV fj4yK 6lEgkly9fXrJkSZ0XYVYh6MfHYw nlxpY6BElha9vx/ RSHtNHuGqYWrJSonZsCtZoMbnlOU upn8RMneypjM GPnkbslpua83DsX7iGHbl35GXs27jj5gsPnSt /zLwcf6PMxsGUS5RcCQuc9ejb3b PdXbsbv5gc9iuQs9R/TrZ6r35M2rrX5mUhhotenv/xumkXBNnS3W2bnt 1u71MSdf87SUxfnP05OzpB2tqzKNZfcOrz9Oek8b7qSCB jW6x Nvs7OzpqamtWX0mQymUTSyJ3u2LaTtkV9r31p4fC 3bp7 q3KNHSwMVYGAE7Hn/af2jiEe2HZmCE /iFzt154VgZKHrM2z 1RfGDSYN Rs2LOPnpPmHy3PWHnaPOMzZOHDxw4bPzSQ9dfFSEg722Zs100ZOm87m0ACL1BSxb2frd97tZsSrPfupMHZzi93Ts7yM9n8P/m70x8KkQAwDIO3Jaw83/GN3 dGDDQb Qvm IfCPBKL8MQCKHTp0/XyjRWfC0MIRQWFvbixYs2bdrIM40XLFhgZGT0eXqLYTV8gkxje3t7oVA4ZcoUc3NzkUikr6//SXqGYY36BJnGw4cPr1ruxbGLfUn4mgeMwVgKfMuAYa0UR36TqFpbG175wrBWAk8eMAbD4YsxGK5pjDEYrmmMMRiuaYwxGK5pjDEYa9m5d4rs9x paYxE6XtDh7iZa6pw1Q1s 46PuSnCF1S2Yqz1I0a0dB9aD/rlwXlhZ1X9wncePrxlSqfXv//07bzE8pbuFVYv1o9GCt2q7L9R05jV9sejD27sCx8zxMd31PzYsAHKb69eeYrPTFstTt/ufEX2 6/UNCaUlCrPZumCnDxKrb2VEV4bb72uhtrimsZ1KLu74RtdrV5rMyR1P4 1BpzaqZD1 E/VNEbFN38NHLT4fUjcqen2yor8erCWwcnLzW/S7WT 9TWNUdG15X5 66Tjjp5e2ksHX47XqrESrwibffC/sKYx/TZu3LBVxT8cPoFjlwHYGWLX4cP74prG8prG2reXBIRmeS2J6KtakJOTk5OTkytEfF11XOq4lZp37DGuaVxZ01j2cmOvWnNdju3cVFlzziqwLwDXNMYYDNc0xhgM1zTGGAx/o4QxGA5fjMFwTWOMwfDoizEYDl MwXBNY4zBcE1jjMFwTWOMwZhX05h6us2/reWwnS9w8jHGvJrGhKpBu44dLfVV8eWM2Cf40vgLYxkO2nAW3xUFA2BkTWPR/gAtrcADxfIjJE//XjTco72 praxndePG1Py5HMK tnBKd5d7doaaGmoaxp06DZyVWIu3VjrGNMwr6YxSD 8ECo4Mdk7KN5wzKIdyy0ld3YvifAfJDydGOamQr/PTLqSb7945yZnlfKXFzYtXDpysuntg0GGRH2tN/E9YK0B42oaQ7XwpR79vjpO9M3GpPXBhgRAX88OZT17bFp/Ysq gDYAQPCte/br48oB8OxYkNR5 ckrpUFD29TTuqaCvwisNWFcTePqxHfTsqrXJVa27d3TaM2ptPtkgFvN3ptZtefJ3uWJaGjDqrN1BROusdaFcTWNa0Hw0Q513pSMo8QGiqLrbx1jIsbVNK6OZ 9qC1kf6hLL7ielvOM5uFo38EdZT sYI/2jhbOFCxfKlyOqaGhoNHrDSU4H 45E/N61u22CXfS54sf5FSvPyt0mTO3 x5yJAerzf/a20STzX4DjyH5tHR1Nynf9umi/hp e6InYZpSvSdUrsa1DZg L X7OiNlk6CBLyZ1dERse2v70m58WAfXekbK 1jEmYl5N4 pzA0Lff9PJXSHaSRGjfP3HbX7qOPfIsfCuqs1qHWMgXNMYYzBc0xhjMFzTGGMwnG2BMRgOX4zBOHUmFeOaxhgj4NEXYzAcvhiD4ZrGGIPhmsYYg GaxhiDMa mMfUk2tvQeND25zjTGGOpqFkosl/rqWlMqBq0t7ZuZ/CZMo2pnLOhXbV0Qk40cuER1hpwrl89KRDkt3Q3moBlNGRT0pDP8crlz8/Hrlq0fNe1fKm6zedoAPvUWI6OnRTZrxXVNBbt9VdRGbyvMtP4ydEFQ11NNXiqOlY9f1ifXJFPTD/9Y6KXi5UhX0VZicc3dwtYdj6HbrB1JDwVNiHq1Ver/lzUDRcSYghFT91aT03jGpnG ccneAX bTRu6d7V7cS3doYv9PYWJl5e3EWFLsxITMlzXL5vq6tK Ytzv85dFDDBLOuvYCOivtYJzSG/PxxKEPSrTTvq7zrWuvyyP7OqMNbZs2dLS0tbd01jhIR7BvF4/nuLECLvr xavS6x5E64kxJ/2P73NJLdmGPNrappRT5c3VW5TUBccf2tV6FeRvbmagX/LW76e8G NNa2kA/zyG7dutUX5fKaxnw 382tIom3qqbxrFmz1qxZIxQK5TWNFfiTkb08tTTI095CX0tT335GogRJyiWIzklLfcF292qkpnF14jupGcjBq6ousXKnvr2My2 nZtdOFWKbd7TiyQryhHR9rSvaJNaqcIL0nlc9kEql9e9ZoaVrGteieKYxpyLTuJ7WMSZiVV/5TUtLU1ZuQt5XS9Q0ro7n2Nmuel1iWXbipbc8p842DWUa1906xkic3XlWVbOHBiYPdQoNDZUvR1Th8/krV65spElrBxvi O6VOzv9z1WfK36YV/FRr9zj5xk9984Y668RPnWgrRaZ9xycvx9g4eRsWr593YK9fH994WNxp5BBH6ovs21Gzx2 5buZw6aT8we3E9 KXbjmfqcpmwdrN5RpXE/rGBOx5h46XvVAKpUqMn o4urqqqWlVX0pTSqVNp5p3Gnqrm0/aCfNHdLDzd2j//IMI6dOJlwA4FhPPnxuy7fcsxHBA7/2Hjkr6tzTMlDqNidmoWfRvnE /Yb9siXhQWGNTGODoVvP7RutfWFhYD/v0RufOC88cWrJVw1nGtfXOsZANWoap6WldevW7dKlS7imMcYINWaJTZ08AK5pjLWoGuHbpJlDFVzTGGspNa44a rKA4a1rBrh24zJA4a1oBo1jasmD7imMcYIePKAMRiePGAMViN8FfnaAtc0xloPRScPuKYx1gop rUFrmmMtUKKTh5wTWOsFWK5aWgpst /v6YxVXB923R/d0t9TU2Ddu6DZx96iBcPWz0O66cj1Sv9tX6fqaYxeW9H6LrbnX5cusNOo DK1iUbxo7SsL6ywJF5RZ//S1inVvRRZL9/fU1jjsOMMxnno2YE Q7w 31amv0AAAFVSURBVGHRpmld4OG1G4U4iah14 go9hn8H6hpzFauyo8n83MKQdezneJpd1iLwDWNP6ppjERXl0/fLuq/bmZvfJPuVg7XNK5Z0xgVJi36dsQO1Zl/bQ8yxzc/bu04JU084N9c0xjlnwv1C4rTm//3/inObRpqFmsdWN9tfdDsg/9dNY3JR1t/CNmrMfsojl3G4CRN85989LfmHfyvqmlccnbtyhSDEXv6sp7evQsAAISaiXV7HXwFXivG2dhP0OyDnZ2d09PTY2NjqyYPCtc0fjtz9cLhu95L2Wp8PSOHwR9qGqtGhG1aNiamkFQ1tgvZNLiflceszXMfT98yafBWjr7diPU Az Eb0VN46VzV0aMihGwjZy85x5ZMU2BmsZ1tE4 Sb1ZKM2OGt4tqnJX5W5r0s/ bIFnwK0XrmmMMRiuaYwxGK5pjDEYnthhDIbDF2Ow/wMLZgGPkRwRmwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==[/IMG]
/usr/bin/
actexec
actexec1 <--- cloned from actexec - through Krusader
actexec2 <--- cloned from actexec - through Krusader
actiona
actiona1 <--- cloned from actiona - through Krusader
actiona2 <--- cloned from actiona - through Krusader

Showing multiple copies (cluster) of original Actiona installed binaries to allow multiple parallel sessons interworking.
That is to emulate handshakes / semaphores / P V operators (discussed earlier).

So you can emulate a cluster of parallel microservices.

Visualise handshakes using mermaid.

Actiona can be orchestrator (parent)
Actiona1, Actiona2, Actiona3 ...       can be child processes.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2023-02-18
> But I am more intrigued with where google and duckduckgo (in thread title) come into the discussion.

i referred to both search engines because both reversed my search the same way.  i am not questioning their relation and did not try other browsers.

---

