---
title: "12.04 shuts down unclean on each system stop"
date: 2013-06-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrScum on 2013-06-06
using ubuntu 12.04 LTS on a Dell Vostro 1520 Laptop I am experiencing very slow boot times (87 seconds). The desktop system with essentially the same ubuntu install takes 18 seconds.
A time consuming process which I don't understand is "Adding 4642780k swap on /dev/sda4.  Priority:-1 extents:1 across:4642780k" it takes over 40s! 
I think it has to do with the bug that ubuntu apparently still doesn't shutdown cleanly and that there is a file system recovery at every boot. I have read those bug reports and tried the workarounds in those posts but they don't help.

Is anybody out there with an idea on how to fix this?

---

### Post by Jonor on 2013-06-06
Obviously not an ideal solution but if you have plenty of RAM and dont need all that swap then it might boot quicker if GParted is used to reduce the size of the swap ?

---

### Post by DrScum on 2013-07-13
After coming back to the problem I found the bug report #1061639 [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ifupdown/+bug/1061639](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ifupdown/+bug/1061639) which seems to cause this problem. In the bug report it is said that its status is "fixed" but apparently it isn't fixet at all. I have tried the workarounds mentioned in the bug report but the problem persists.
Anyone out there who has new ideas on how to approach this?

Here a summary of the symptoms:
the root file system is not unmounted clean during shutdown, indicated by the message "/mount is busy"
during reboot a fschk is forced and a recovery of the file system which takes about 40s

---

### Post by DrScum on 2013-07-14
I don't like to bump, but I think the fact that the file system is shutdown unclean each time is a very serious bug that needs attention in the community. I can't solve the problem myself since I don't have the expertize. However, if people having the expertize point out to me what I can do to help fixing this I am more than happy to ivest labour.

---

### Post by DrScum on 2013-09-24
Three month and a bunch of updates later still no fix to this? As I said above, I don't have the expertize to work on this myself. If there is anything I can do let me know.

---

