---
title: "11.04 will not shut down"
date: 2011-09-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by john.errington on 2011-09-21
I'm running ubuntu 11.04 on an HP laptop.  It was fine until recently when all of a sudden it refused to shut down.  It just ignores the shut down 
Suspend and hibernate work but shut down and restart do not.

On one occasion I saw a brief message displayed - something about libre office - but too quick to read. 

In desperation I installed qshutdown but it also failed to shut down the laptop and became a real problem because it would not stop trying!

sudo shutdown -P now
works - but its a bit tedious at 3 mouse actions and 20 keypresses!

can anyone help?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-09-21
[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi/+question/115184](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi/+question/115184)

may be that link can help you on this issue . 
all the best.

---

### Post by scarleo on 2011-09-21
3 mouse actions? Aren't you in terminal already when using your computer? ;)   Sorry...

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-09-21
Do you see that power button on your computer? Press and hold for a few seconds and it will shut down.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-09-21
> **Linux_junkie said:**
> Do you see that power button on your computer? Press and hold for a few seconds and it will shut down.

Hey man 
I think its not the Safest way to shutdown the system .

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-09-21
> **raja.genupula said:**
> Hey man 
I think its not the Safest way to shutdown the system .

No but it works! :D

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-09-21
Thanks for participating Linux_junkie, but this kind of advice is not necessary.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-09-21
Have you enabled the systray Quickstarter in Libreoffice options?  If so either disable that or do not use it at all and the shutdown will work again.

I think this has been a bug with the quickstart in Openoffice and Libreoffice for a few recent versions of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by PaulNKS on 2011-11-26
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Have you enabled the systray Quickstarter in Libreoffice options?  If so either disable that or do not use it at all and the shutdown will work again.

I think this has been a bug with the quickstart in Openoffice and Libreoffice for a few recent versions of Ubuntu.

I am having the same problem, but I do NOT have the Quickstarter enabled.

---

