---
title: "14.10 &quot; Software Updater &quot; crashing"
date: 2015-04-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by diliptmc on 2015-04-12
Been like this since a long time. Any fix available ?

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2015-04-12
Do an update from the command line.
```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

```
(the first command updates the list of available packages, the second upgrades packages for which newer version are available)
If this shows errors (it probably will), post them here.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-04-12
diliptmc; Hi ! Welcome to the forum.

> **diliptmc said:**
> Been like this since a long time. Any fix available ?

Place to start is to see what errors the system reports.
Post pack the outputs - Between Code Tags - of terminal commands:
```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

```

code tag tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)

From this output we see what needs fixing, and perhaps some direction to do so.

[INDENT][INDENT]it's 'buntu
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]it is fixable
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by diliptmc on 2015-04-12
Thanks guys. Actually, I am an old member. But the forum shows no option to recover old password. No " Forget password " at all.

I am taking refuge on these commands since a long time. May be since a couple of months or so. What I am looking for is a solution to fix the crashing error when using GUI ( Software Updater ).

---

### Post by user_of_gnomes on 2015-04-12
> I am taking refuge on these commands since a long time. May be since a couple of months or so.

What does that even mean?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2015-04-12
> **diliptmc said:**
> Thanks guys. Actually, I am an old member. But the forum shows no option to recover old password. No " Forget password " at all.

Please read this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2230004](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2230004)

Which is helpfully linked from the "Please read before SSO login" link in the orange bar which you must have missed.

And this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2164369](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2164369)

After which we can help you getting into your old account if you post here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=123](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=123)

> **diliptmc said:**
> What I am looking for is a solution to fix the crashing error when using GUI ( Software Updater ).

Please post the output from the two commands Holger_Gehrke and Bashing-om asked for. Without them people cannot help you. There is no general problem with Software Updater in Ubuntu 14.10, and therefore no "fix" as you put it. There is a local problem on your system and without those outputs people helping you have nothing to go on.

---

### Post by diliptmc on 2015-04-12
@coffeecat Thanks for the links.

Actually the crash bug I was referring to was this ( [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/1367017](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/1367017) ) . I could help myself with update and upgrade commands. It works fine and there is no error when I use them in Terminal. But even after trying them, I am left with **Software Updater** popup which  say there is an update 
( Ubuntu base - around 60 MB ) . But when I click the Install button in Software Updater, the window vanishes. Earlier, I used to get some error message but now it has stopped ( but crashing has not ). Currently, GUI **Install** button simply make the window vanish and ( at times ) asks me about sending a crash report.

---

### Post by diliptmc on 2015-04-12
> **user_of_gnomes said:**
> What does that even mean?

Managing without GUI updater more than I should be.

---

### Post by user_of_gnomes on 2015-04-12
Did you try sudo dist-upgrade instead?

---

### Post by plucky on 2015-04-13
> **user_of_gnomes said:**
> Did you try sudo dist-upgrade instead?

Did you mean ```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```?

---

### Post by diliptmc on 2015-04-13
> **user_of_gnomes said:**
> Did you try sudo dist-upgrade instead?

Thanks. I haven't tried, but aware of it. I guess aptdaemon only fetches certain packages available via dist-upgrade (true ? ). I am anyhow trying to find a fix for crashing for crashing of **usr/bin/update-manager **which seems to be this [bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/aptdaemon/+bug/1377152") . It seems there is a fix. Can someone help me spot it please ..

[ATTACH=CONFIG]261254[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by user_of_gnomes on 2015-04-13
If a fix has been released it is a matter of downloading the updates ... 

It hasn't been made entirely clear whether or not you've applied said updates?

---

### Post by diliptmc on 2015-04-13
I have been using apt-get update , upgrade since months now. No luck so far. That is exactly why I started this thread. I am just trying to figure out how to fix the crash issue. Help me please..

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-04-13
The bug in aptdaemon ( [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/aptdaemon/+bug/1377152](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/aptdaemon/+bug/1377152) ) has been fixed in 15.04, not 14.10.
If you really want to, you can apply the patch attached to the bug report yourself...or wait two weeks for next release-upgrade.

However, the crash bug in software-updater ( [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/1367017](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/1367017) ) is entirely different and seems not fixed yet.
That bug doesn't affect everybody though it seems rather common - 88th on [http://errors.ubuntu.com](http://errors.ubuntu.com) when I looked.

Since software updater is just Python, and since the fix seems like straightforward string substitution -importing one python module instead of another- pretty much any interested community member with a Launchpad account can pull the source code, fix the bug, test the fix, create the patch, and attach the patch to the bug report.

---

### Post by diliptmc on 2015-04-18
Thanks @ian-weisser . I would have done if I were good enough at it. I would still like to attempt provided there is some procedure I can follow.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-04-18
Poking about in your own version of Software Updater is easy. It's already installed, and you don't need anything else.

There are many possible procedures to fix a bug.
Here's a fairly simple one:

Step 1:
Save a pristine backup copy of the code - you will need it to create a patch later.
Poke around and figure out how to fix the bug. Be sure to write down what you do so you can undo breakage you cause.

Step 2:
When you have discovered exactly how to fix the problem, delete your working copy. Yeah, that's right.
Make a new working copy from the pristine version.
Re-create the fix on the new working copy. This ensures the patch you create is clean, and doesn't include spurious work.

Step 3:
Use the 'diff' command to compare the fixed copy and the pristine copy, and to create a patch.
Attach the patch to the bug report.
Each patch should fix one (and only one) bug or problem. A bug might require several patches to fix.

---

