---
title: "10.10 maverick meerkat different wallpapers on each workspace?"
date: 2011-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by m1ck3y_m0nk3y on 2011-04-20
Hi! i was wondering if there's anyway to have different wallpapers on each workspace in 32bit Ubuntu 10.10 desktop edition maverick meerkat? ive tried many different things posted on the forum to no avail... i think they were for earlier versions.... so any help?

---

### Post by jonbwilson on 2011-04-20
> **m1ck3y_m0nk3y said:**
> Hi! i was wondering if there's anyway to have different wallpapers on each workspace in 32bit Ubuntu 10.10 desktop edition maverick meerkat? ive tried many different things posted on the forum to no avail... i think they were for earlier versions.... so any help?

Give this a shot:

[http://my.opera.com/ubuntunerd1/blog/how-to-get-multiple-desktop-wallpapers-in-ubuntu-8-4-8-10](http://my.opera.com/ubuntunerd1/blog/how-to-get-multiple-desktop-wallpapers-in-ubuntu-8-4-8-10)

It's for an earlier version of Ubuntu, and I haven't tried it myself, but it does seem to be what you're looking for.

---

### Post by m1ck3y_m0nk3y on 2011-04-20
> **jonbwilson said:**
> Give this a shot:

[http://my.opera.com/ubuntunerd1/blog/how-to-get-multiple-desktop-wallpapers-in-ubuntu-8-4-8-10](http://my.opera.com/ubuntunerd1/blog/how-to-get-multiple-desktop-wallpapers-in-ubuntu-8-4-8-10)

It's for an earlier version of Ubuntu, and I haven't tried it myself, but it does seem to be what you're looking for.


thanks but I've tried this, i dont have a "Wallpapers" section in ccsm and if i go into "Desktop Cube" and do the wallpaper thing there, it doesnt seem change anything.....

---

### Post by harjotsandhu on 2011-04-25
> **m1ck3y_m0nk3y said:**
> thanks but I've tried this, i dont have a "Wallpapers" section in ccsm and if i go into "Desktop Cube" and do the wallpaper thing there, it doesnt seem change anything.....

You need to install compiz-fusion-plugins-extra package to get the "wallpaper" option

---

