---
title: "Mounted partitions - dont have permission"
date: 2007-04-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-08
I mounted all NTFS partitions while installing ubuntu (edgy). I have access to it and can view files properly but I cant do nothing with it. I cant put files, delete files, move files, etc.

Is there an easy way to solve this? Thanks

---

### Post by xopher on 2007-04-08
Relatively easy, yes. It's called NTFS-3G, and it's a different driver. The one that gets shipped with Edgy doesn't have the ability to write data onto the NTFS partition, only read. Feisty supports this feature natively, but under Edgy you have to do a little bit more.

Check this out for more information on how to get the most out of your NTFS partition under Ubuntu:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G)

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-08
Ah, thanks a lot. I will try it out

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-09
I tried that out but after i click "OK", nothing happened. Then i looked in my /media/ The mout points are still here except there are nothing inside.. *cry*

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-04-09
Can you post your /etc/fstab?

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
cat /etc/fstab
```

p.s.  Did you reboot your machine after the changes?

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-09
I installed ntfsprogs from Synaptic, and tried ntfsfix, but it didnt work. I tried ntfsmount too and got error message:
```
Default options are: "default_permissions,allow_other,".
peter@peter-desktop:~$ sudo ntfsmount /dev/sda1 /media/windows
Couldn't mount device '/dev/sda1': Operation not supported
Windows did not shut down properly.  Try to mount volume in windows, shut down and try again.
Mount failed.
peter@peter-desktop:~$ sudo ntfsmount /dev/sda5 /media/softwares
Couldn't mount device '/dev/sda5': Operation not supported
Windows did not shut down properly.  Try to mount volume in windows, shut down and try again.
Mount failed.

```

Heres my fstab:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda9 :
UUID=5f148fbe-d50f-4fbf-b5ac-3e43b2bd58af / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=F484DBD484DB9806 /media/downloads ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=3C8CD4178CD3CA12 /media/games ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=D0C0C9AAC0C9975E /media/movies ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=ECFCBB83FCBB471C /media/softwares ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=644059E54059BE8C /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda10 :
UUID=af671458-f864-486c-80f2-b39afd14f3e1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

```

Ya I think I rebooted..

Thanks a lot

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-09
Can somebody please help me? I really need it

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-04-09
Post

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-10
Sorry for late reply, just came back home from school (sad i know..)

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        2611    20972826    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            2612       19456   135307462+   f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5            2612        7833    41945683+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda6           11738       13042    10482381    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda7           13043       16946    31358848+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda8           16947       19456    20161543+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda9            9139       11737    20876436   83  Linux
/dev/sda10           7834        9138    10482381   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order

---

### Post by mixmaster on 2007-04-10
From the error messages it looks as if the windows disks were shut down incorrectly.  Try booting windows and shutting down cleanly before reboooting linux.

---

### Post by farscape on 2007-04-10
Petester, check out this thread. I was having the same problem. 

[smbfs write permissions]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=398001")

I had to add user ID(uid=1000) to my smbfs entry. 
It looks something like this now:
//WindowsMachine/WindowsShare /mnt_directory smbfs uid=1000,username=WinUserName,password=WinPassword 0 0
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-10
Thanks both ^^

Maxmaster, but the problem is.. I cant go into my vista now... I see the boot screen (you know, the rolling bar thing and (C)Microsoft Coorporation), but then after that, i waited 10 mins, nothing

Farscape, so is that all I have to do? Thanks a lot! Let me try..

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-10
Farscape,
I tried it and in filesystem I realized that it has "mnt_directory" but when i open it it says:
mount: only root can mount //windowsmachine/windowsshare on /mnt_directory

---

### Post by farscape on 2007-04-10
> **Petester said:**
> Farscape,
I tried it and in filesystem I realized that it has "mnt_directory" but when i open it it says:
mount: only root can mount //windowsmachine/windowsshare on /mnt_directory

Are you adding **uid=1000**?

"mnt_directory" is a directory on the linux box you will mount the win box from. 
I made a "share" folder in my home directory and used that.

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-10
Just checked, I did.

And checked again, mnt_directory still says unable to mount

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-10
Sorry again but can i please have a solution? I need this very urgently.. thanks

---

### Post by farscape on 2007-04-10
Just double checking. All the spacing has to be correct here.

//WindowsMachine/WindowsShare /mnt_directory smbfs uid=1000,username=WinUserName,password=WinPassword 0 0

Here is what mine looks like....kinda with the substitutions:

//D1542F/movies /mnt smbfs uid=1000,username=farscape,password=23478656548 0 0


Using this, the share would show up in the mnt folder in my linux file system. It shows and icon labeled mnt on my desktop after a reboot.

I'm out of ideas......

---

### Post by farscape on 2007-04-10
I just got the same error. Problem was that I have an external usb hard drive shared and I turned it off at some point. I turned it back on and for some reason the share name changed. The icon on your linux desktop or in **Places>Computer** should not have a **smb** on them. If there is, there's something wrong. Or do you have smbfs installed? You have to install it. It's not installed by default. It's in the repositories.

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-11
I didnt see winusername and winpassword.. my bad..

now its error message is:
[mntent]: line 24 in /etc/fstab is bad

mount: can't find /mnt_directory in /etc/fstab or /etc/mtab

and by smbfs, did you mean this one:
sudo apt-get install samba smbfs
?

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-11
what is WindowsMachine and WindowsShare? Where can I get the info?

---

### Post by farscape on 2007-04-11
> **Petester said:**
> what is WindowsMachine and WindowsShare? Where can I get the info?

OK, then is why it's not working. 
This expression is full of generic names.
//WindowsMachine/WindowsShare /mnt_directory smbfs uid=1000,username=WinUserName,password=WinPassword 0 0

Lets say you want to access a shared windows folder from Ubuntu. By shared I mean it's set up in windows to be shared. Lets say the Shared Documents folder. Its shared name is "SharedDocs". So replace WindowsShare with **SharedDocs**.

Now on your windows machine(xp). GO to **start**. right click **mycomputer**. select **properties**. click the **Computer Name**
tab. Now where it says "Computer Full Name", there should be a name to the right of it. Lets say......BasementPC. So replace WindowsMachine with **BasementPC**.

Leave **uid=1000** as is.

Now where in your linux file structure do you want these windows files/shares to show up? Lets say **mnt**. It already exists so that's easy. So replace mnt_directory with **mnt**.

Lets say your windows username is **frank**.
And your windows password is **123456789**

That should do it. Now with what we just established, on this fake machine here our smbfs entry should look like this:

//BasementPC/SharedDocs /mnt smbfs uid=1000,username=frank,password=123456789 0 0

The **0 0** should be at the end to match the other enrties.

Hope this helps.

I used Synaptic Package Manager to install smbfs. Not sure what the apt-get command is.

Also, check out this link: [HowToMountsmbfsSharesPermanently]("http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/HowToMountsmbfsSharesPermanently#Mounting_smbfs_Shares")

I just realized your using Vista. I'm doing this with WinXP. Not sure how this works with Vista. It should work though.

---

### Post by Petester on 2007-04-12
Ah thanks a lot, now it works ^^

---

