---
title: ".DAT File - Banshee Media Player - Problem"
date: 2011-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tito-dutta on 2011-09-01
I can't play .DAT file in Banshee Media Player. In plain English, I have a movie VCD, I can't play that!
Can someone provide any help? :rolleyes:
Thanks!

---

### Post by qyot27 on 2011-09-01
[http://banshee.fm/support/faq/](http://banshee.fm/support/faq/)

> **Does Banshee support audio/video format X (mp3, aac, mpeg, etc)?**
    Banshee uses GStreamer for audio and video decoding (playing) and encoding (ripping, format conversions). Whatever codecs you have installed for GStreamer, Banshee will be able to use (with a small number of exceptions).
You likely need to install the relevant set of GStreamer plugins.  You'd probably be looking for the one with support for MPEG-1, since the .DAT files on VCDs are more or less just standard MPEG-1 files.

Dunno if that's good, bad, or ugly, though.  ubuntu-restricted-extras might also do the trick, even though I could have sworn MPEG-1 support (aside from MP3) was no longer in that nasty patent situation and support for it could be included by default.

---

### Post by tito-dutta on 2011-09-01
Thanks! :KS
I had installed those plugins on the first day [when I started to play an mp3 file, I was suggested to install some plugins, I installed all]. mp3, mpeg, mp4, all files are playing fine, not .DAT and there is no recommendations too what to install! 
Thanks!

---

### Post by elliotn on 2011-09-01
get Vlc it plays .dat files with ease, try playing with movie player it will pop-up and tell you to search for missing codecs

---

### Post by tito-dutta on 2011-09-01
In VLC, I got this error message. [screenshot]

---

### Post by qyot27 on 2011-09-01
The hard way to do it:
Copy files to hard drive, change extension from .dat to .mpg, try playing them (even though it shouldn't be extension-dependent, but whatever).

or

Copy files to hard drive, use ffmpeg and mplex (part of the mjpegtools package; you need to have the Multiverse repository enabled) to remux them:
```
sudo apt-get install ffmpeg mjpegtools
```
To do the remux:
```
ffmpeg -i input.dat -vcodec copy -an output.m1v
ffmpeg -i input.dat -vn -acodec copy output.mp2
mplex -f1 output.m1v output.mp2 -o final-output.mpg
```

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-09-01
On Linux you can't play ".DAT" files directly from the CD as though they were normal files. You can, however, play the VCD the same way as a DVD: Use VLC's "Open Disc" function.

---

