---
title: "problem detected"
date: 2019-04-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by woodsyboredom on 2019-04-06
Hi, 

I'm running ubuntu studio 10.04 on my Dell Optiplex 760. it was running fine until about a week ago when I started to get a message box that read: System problem detected. The dialogue box asks me if I want to report it or ignore it. It doesn't give me any way to view it or address it or any inkling of what this problem is. Does any know how I can just fix it or find out what it is and then fix it? Is there a softeware package I could download and run that will fix it for me? I use both the low atency kenel amd the standard kernel and the problem occurs in either. It seems to cause things to freeze and take a long time to clear and it makes doing anything arduous. the freezing seems random and happens with stuff online or installed software. Any help appreciated.  

thanks

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2019-04-07
If it's really a 10.04 you should do a fresh install of a supported release rather than trying to fix problems.
After that change all passwords which have ever been entered on the computer.

---

### Post by woodsyboredom on 2019-04-10
oops you are correct. my mistake. I'm running18.04 big difference. same problem. I'm running the same thing on my laptop and don't experience any problems.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2019-04-11
Crash reports can be found in /var/crash.
So see if that shows you anything.

---

### Post by yancek on 2019-04-12
> I started to get a message box that read: System problem detected

Any time I see that message it has 'Details' on it and if you click that it should give you more 'details'.

---

### Post by woodsyboredom on 2019-04-12
yes usually i see a 'Details' option but not in this box.

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-04-13
This system message is generated by [Apport]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apport") and could just need a reset.
```
sudo rm /var/crash/*
```
Will reset it.  

The report will regenerate if there is really a problem.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2019-04-13
I get those messages quite often: usually they disappear in a few days. But just like he said, there are no details to view.

---

