---
title: "10.10 Updated today and now...  videos &amp; Audio not in sync."
date: 2010-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-11-30
I am running a 64bit HP and after an update today all my videos have lost their sync.  It doesn't matter the host site, youtube, yahoo etc.  it's all out of sync.  

Any way to fix this?

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-11-30
Another symptom, My processor monitor consistently bounces to 100%.  (I know this problem isn't hardware related.)


Is there a way to do a fresh install without formatting and loosing all my data?

---

### Post by dl1000v on 2010-11-30
I had the exact problem watching any kind of video on a Dell notebook 64 bit 10.10 after doing updates the other day. Cpu usage would go to 100% on several cores for a few seconds at time as well. I removed the restricted driver for my ATI Video card and rolled back to the open source one. Fixed the issue. I then put the restricted one back in just to see if the problem would come back and it did. Not sure what hardware your running or how relevant it is to your situation, but that worked for me.

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-11-30
I am on an a Bigbox HP a6600f w/ 4gb of ram.

I am a noob, how do I do all of that?

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-12-03
OK, so I reformated and reinstalled a fresh copy of 10.10 and I was all good.  ...until today?

So I have realized it's not my memory that is going haywire, it is my CPU.  Youtube videos aren't doing it yet but I am now unable to play ".mov" files.

The "Totem" process is right around 80%

Doing some searching, I have realized that Ubuntu's Flash support blows monkey crackers.


Anyway to pinpoint where my issues are?

---

### Post by Z06Gal on 2010-12-03
I had the same issue with audio/video syncing and removed pulseaudio.  I installed everything alsa via synaptic and set keyboard shortcuts to control my volume.  I could not be happier.  Here is a link I found after I had already resolved my issues:

[http://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=42&t=60485](http://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=42&t=60485)

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-12-03
This is playing a .mov file.
[IMG]http://i44.photobucket.com/albums/f33/wolvee123/My%20EDC/Screenshot.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-12-04
Shooting in the dark here...

I have two Proprietary drivers listed for my Nvidia graphics card, (Version 173 & Recomended) is there anyway to test to see if these drivers are my problem and to check if there is a generic driver I can use?

Thanks.

---

