---
title: "VPN Client for watchgaurd firebox soho 6"
date: 2005-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by slimfitstyle on 2005-11-09
Hi everyone, I just recently setup my laptop to dual boot into Ubuntu and XP.  I'm loving Ubuntu, once I get off work I boot into Ubuntu.  The only thing that is stopping me from staying booted in Ubuntu is not being able to connect to my offices VPN.  I'm looking for an easy way (im new to linux) to be able to connect to my offices Watchgaurd Firebox Soho 6.  I've been searching these forums, google, and watchgaurds site and I just can't figure it out.  For windows they make this nice little vpn client that is super easy to use, I'm looking for something similar for linux.  I looked @ OpenSwan but can't figure it all out, and i tried the kde vpn gui app but no dice.  

soho 6 setup

uname
shared key
authentication algorithm MD5-HMAC
Encryption Algorithm DES-CBC

Thanks in advance for your help!

---

### Post by hajk on 2005-11-10
I just checked the specs at the Watchguard site, and it looks as if the VPN client is IPSec-based. You might try the VPN-client in the "vpnc"-package.

A VPN connection can be made interactively with the command "sudo vpnc'',
with prompts for the required information. Easier is to make a configuration
file for each target, e.g. /etc/vpnc/<target>.conf, with

IPSec gateway <target_IP_address>
IPSec ID <target_group_ID>
IPSec secret <target_group_password>
XAuth username <your_ID>
XAuth password <your_password>

with single spaces between words, and the <bracketed> stuff replaced. The connection is started with "sudo vpnc <target>.conf" and stopped with "sudo vpnc-disconnect".

Are you using the Firestarter firewall on your Ubuntu box? In that case you must also adapt the firewall rules by adding to /etc/firestarter/user-pre the following 6 rules (you may have to make this file writable first, e.g. "chmod 600 ..")

iptables -A INPUT -j ACCEPT -s <target_IP_address> -p esp
iptables -A INPUT -j ACCEPT -s <target_IP_address> -p udp -m multiport --sports isakmp,10000
iptables -A INPUT -j ACCEPT -i tun+
iptables -A OUTPUT -j ACCEPT -d <target_IP_address> -p esp
iptables -A OUTPUT -j ACCEPT -d <target_IP_address> -p udp -m multiport --dports isakmp,10000
iptables -A OUTPUT -j ACCEPT -o tun+

Note that the instructions in the Firestarter on-line documentation
on passing VPN traffic do not apply to vpnc (and do not work).

Good luck!

---

### Post by slimfitstyle on 2005-11-11
thanks!!  i'll give it a try.

---

### Post by BIS on 2005-11-12
Hallo,

I do exactly that! I use the pptpconfig to set up a pptp tunnel. Then I connect to my work pc with tsclient (terminal server client - connects like windows remote desktop). If this is what you need let me know and I can help you with the config.

---

### Post by harsesus on 2007-06-18
Hey... total Ubuntu newbie, in the same boat.  I have a .wgx file I used to use on windows with the watchguard muVPN 7.3 - I am assuming holds the pre-shared key.  Can anyone help?

---

### Post by sio2 on 2007-08-28
My brother had same problem so i tried to solve it, in the end i wrote to watchguard and the answered;
 
We have three firewall models, Edge, Core and Peak and we have a management application called Watchguard System Manager (WSM). WSM is only supported on Windows, not Linux. WSM is required to manage Core and Peak. Edges are managed by a web browser and Linux is of course supported through that. So as a management station only Edge is supported on Linux, but not Core or Peak.

Hope this will save somebody a little trouble.:)

---

### Post by Paladin Michael on 2008-01-02
To clarify, the problem is getting a linux machine to be a client for a watchguard firewall's  MUVPN.  The response from watchguard mentioned above has to do with watchguard management and configuration and nothing to do with the client side of the vpn.  So far I've not found much information from them concerning a linux box as a client for MUVPN.  

Further clarification:  
watchguard jargon as of my last crash course through out of date docs which were available:  
-> MUVPN = L2TP/IPSec vpn solution with software client configured with file generated by firewall (.wgx or .sav depending on your version)
-> RUVPN = PPTP vpn solution which can be connected to with microsoft vpn clients (built into recent windows versions) which is also compatible with Open PPTP clients as long as the config is set up to mimic microsoft's idea of a pptp client (i.e. whether to use MPPE, etc)

The problem with the .wgx file is that watchguard MUVPN (which uses a software client from SafeNet in the 7.x versions) which uses the .wgx files is not simple ipsec, it has multiple configurations, the default, and usually used, of which is using L2TP/IPSec.

I've glanced at a tutorial for setting up this kind of client in linux and it's enough of a headache to make me keep looking for something easier.

To make matters worse, Watchguard recently updated their MUVPN solution to a new version of the software which now uses a .sav file which is binary (don't know if the .wgx file is also binary, could be).  I'm not sure if it's simply an archive or if there's a specific kind of encoding their client software decodes to retrieve the passkeys, site information, etc.

  If the network admin who set it up is kind and patient enough to walk you through all the settings which go into the setup, you might be able to setup a client with a great deal of difficulty.

I'm sorry to sound negative but I'm having trouble finding an easier solution to this myself and don't think I could figure it out myself without spending a long time banging my head against the desk.

btw, tutorial I spoke of is here: [http://www.jacco2.dds.nl/networking/linux-l2tp.html](http://www.jacco2.dds.nl/networking/linux-l2tp.html)

---

