---
title: "11.10 &quot;Partial Upgrade&quot; breaking system"
date: 2012-02-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jrisreal on 2012-02-15
I've been running Ubuntu 11.10 with unity for a while now.  Yesterday, it began giving me some error message telling me to do a "partial upgrade."  I ignored the message then, but today I clicked it.  Once I rebooted, some of my apps disappeared, such as GIMP.  They would not reinstall because of some dependency error, even though I am using the ubuntu software centre.  I have encountered various other errors which I had not been faced with before.  The system version still says 11.10, though.  If anybody can help with this, that would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks in advance,
-Syntax Music

---

### Post by imachavel on 2012-02-15
give it a shot:

$sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh -a

WARNING, THIS SHOULD basically do a windows repair, it will look at every necessary folder and file library, static or not, and probably reinstall all files, unless I'm wrong, and in which case if I am hopefully a moderator comes in and corrects me.

Are your files backed up???!? Please make sure they are. then give it a shot. I'd like to try this out but don't want to risk it myself

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-02-15
You have to either have Pre-released Updates enabled or have some PPA that had something updated, but they didn't get around to updating all of the dependencies. I'd make sure to disable Pre-released Updates and get rid of any possible offending PPAs before you do anything else.

You see a lot of people warning about how bad it is to do a Partial Upgrade, but I'd like to see someone post a solution of how to fix things after you've already ignorantly done a Partial Upgrade. One thing I've learned for the future is that there is no good reason to ever do one.

---

### Post by jrisreal on 2012-02-16
Backing up my stuff now.  Will let you know how that dpkg command works out.  If it doesn't do the trick, I'll just reinstall 11.10 on top of this one.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-02-16
Hi, you may be able to install synaptic then go into it and click to fix broken packages or you can boot into recovery when you reboot your computer and choose root with network so you can run fix broken packages before you boot ubuntu.

It is very bad to do a partial upgrade.
Thanks

---

### Post by jrisreal on 2012-02-16
> **wildmanne39 said:**
> It is very bad to do a partial upgrade.
Thanks
I have just become aware of this.  I am not a very experienced linux user and, honestly, do not know much beyond the fact that I prefer linux to windows/mac.  Thank you for all the suggestions.  I will try your advice and get back to you.

Re: the dpkg suggestion, nothing happened.  it continued to not work properly.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-02-16
Check the logs in Software Centre and see what was uninstalled. If it's been a while since you did the partial upgrade then make sure you've updated the package lists, diable any PPAs or third party sources and run another upgrade. If that doesn't work try reinstalling ubuntu-desktop, and if necessary any of the other packages that were removed.

I like Synaptic for fixing this kind of thing, as it shows you exactly what packages depend on each other and allows much more control over what's going on.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-02-16
> **Paqman said:**
> Check the logs in Software Centre and see what was uninstalled. If it's been a while since you did the partial upgrade then make sure you've updated the package lists, diable any PPAs or third party sources and run another upgrade. If that doesn't work try reinstalling ubuntu-desktop, and if necessary any of the other packages that were removed.

If you disable your PPAs, it won't revert the upgraded software that you have installed to the old versions, will it? If it doesn't, that means that disabling the PPAs won't really help immediately because the installed software will still depend on newer versions of dependencies that aren't available.

How can you revert PPA upgraded software back to repo versions?

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-02-16
> **forrestcupp said:**
> If you disable your PPAs, it won't revert the upgraded software that you have installed to the old versions, will it? If it doesn't, that means that disabling the PPAs won't really help immediately because the installed software will still depend on newer versions of dependencies that aren't available.

How can you revert PPA upgraded software back to repo versions?

If you disable a PPA the packages you installed from it won't be touched, unless they specifically conflict with a package from the repos (which they shouldn't).

So they won't be removed unless you remove them, and if they're newer than a package from the respo, then the package won't get upgraded until the version in the repos supersedes the one from the PPA. You can of course switch to any particular available version of a package through tools like Synaptic.

I advised disabling the PPAs to simplify locating the source of the fault. 3rd party sources are a likely source of partial upgrades, as on the stable branch the official repos are likely to be, well, more stable.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-02-16
> **Paqman said:**
> If you disable a PPA the packages you installed from it won't be touched, unless they specifically conflict with a package from the repos (which they shouldn't).

So they won't be removed unless you remove them, and if they're newer than a package from the respo, then the package won't get upgraded until the version in the repos supersedes the one from the PPA. You can of course switch to any particular available version of a package through tools like Synaptic.

I advised disabling the PPAs to simplify locating the source of the fault. 3rd party sources are a likely source of partial upgrades, as on the stable branch the official repos are likely to be, well, more stable.

That's the way I was thinking. Is there any way to automatically revert all installed software back to the repo versions? If not, that would be a great thing for someone to work on.

---

### Post by s9032g@comcast.net on 2012-02-16
I just finished a successful "partial upgrade" as recommended for Ubuntu 11.10. Had a couple of false starts that failed to complete. Switched to a wired connection. Used synaptic. With a couple more restarts everything installed. Had to do a complete shutdown, not just a restart, to complete it.
Up and working just fine now.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-02-16
> **s9032g@comcast.net said:**
> I just finished a successful "partial upgrade" as recommended for Ubuntu 11.10. Had a couple of false starts that failed to complete. Switched to a wired connection. Used synaptic. With a couple more restarts everything installed. Had to do a complete shutdown, not just a restart, to complete it.
Up and working just fine now.

I wonder if you were just unlucky and got caught in the middle of some devs uploading upgraded dependencies.

---

### Post by s9032g@comcast.net on 2012-02-16
Possibly you are right.

I never hold back for long on any sort of upgrade. No serious problems (other than those I caused myself) since 2009.

Regarding the latest partial upgrade problem: Those having the problem might try the suggestion by alci on "Ask Ubuntu".

Terminal command

sudo dpkg --configure -a

Seems to have helped some users.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-02-16
I have found that refusing the partial upgrade  and waiting until the withheld packages are available works well .

---

### Post by Scott Baker on 2012-02-16
I agree whole-heartedly. Is the upgrade so IMPORTANT that you're willing to risk fragging your system. Look through the forums, and you'll see a bunch of problems that involve partial upgrades. Relax, wait it out, and accept those upgrades only when they appear to be complete and ready to use. In the meantime, try to avoid the partials. The headache you save could be your own.  ](*,)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-02-17
Hi, since this discussion is still going on I am including a link about partial upgrades that I use as my reference.

Also I have tried a partial upgrade before and it ended in failure.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859240](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859240)
thanks

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-02-17
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> I have found that refusing the partial upgrade  and waiting until the withheld packages are available works well .That's obviously the case. But for those people who have already done a partial upgrade because they didn't know any better, it would be good to have a solution to get out of a mess like that.

> **s9032g@comcast.net said:**
> 
Regarding the latest partial upgrade problem: Those having the problem might try the suggestion by alci on "Ask Ubuntu".

Terminal command

sudo dpkg --configure -a

Seems to have helped some users.It's definitely worth a shot before you go and reinstall everything, but I've also seen people that didn't work for. I'd definitely give it a try, though.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2012-02-18
> **forrestcupp said:**
> That's the way I was thinking. Is there any way to automatically revert all installed software back to the repo versions? If not, that would be a great thing for someone to work on.

No, not as far as I'm aware. Although I'm not sure what it would do if you forced a reinstall and the package wasn't in the cache. I assume that if the installed version is newer than the one in the repos it simply won't do the reinstall, but I'm not 100% on that.

---

