---
title: "14.10 Init File Gone"
date: 2015-03-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mvesprinih on 2015-03-01
As background information, I had been trying different window managers before the error occurred. Now, whenever I try to boot into my linux partition, I get the error in the picture:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/wkQYOos.jpg[/IMG]

My partition won't start in recovery mode either, and on further inspection it seems like there's no init script in the /sbin directory. Is there anyway to auto-generate a new one? I've tried fscking the partition and it just returns saying it is clean and no work needs to be done. I've tried copying in the init script from my laptop but that also crashes because of what I'm assuming is the different hardware.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-03-01
/sbin/init is a binary file, not a generated script.
In 14.10, it is provided by the 'upstart' package. In future releases, it will be provided by systemd.

Is it possible that uninstalling one of those desktop environments removed essential packages?

I recommend booting from a LiveUSB, and backup your data in case a reinstall becomes a desired solution.

---

### Post by mvesprinih on 2015-03-01
I've already backed up my data, is there anyway to re-install missing packages on a partition you can't boot? I'd rather not delete the partition and start over. I can mount the drive on a live linux session to manipulate it.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2015-03-02
You could try to chroot into your installed system from the live disk and reinstall the damaged packages. I've never had to do that myself, so I would have to lookup the details myself too.

---

### Post by mvesprinih on 2015-03-02
Thanks! :p I'll try that out and come back with an update.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-03-03
I suggest you try hitting control+alt+F1 at the screen you have posted (please attach large images by 'Go Advanced' and using the paperclip icon). If that gets you to a CLI with a cursor, then:

```
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

Reboot. Please report any and all errors from the updating and rebooting.

---

