---
title: ".exe"
date: 2010-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hjorth on 2010-11-06
Hello,
I have a question, why don't they make a Linux take can execute .exe files?:confused:

/ Hjorth

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2010-11-06
You can try running it via Wine.

[http://www.winehq.org](http://www.winehq.org)

And to check if your application will run under wine: [http://appdb.winehq.org](http://appdb.winehq.org)

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2010-11-06
If you want to run EXE on Linux use WINE. If you want an OS which can run exe files try ReactOS. It's really great. and only 30 megs big. Yet it looks exactly like Windows.

---

### Post by Hjorth on 2010-11-06
It's not that. I know all about that but why can't someone make a Linux that can use .exe files without Wine?

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2010-11-06
Look up the programming term "Reinventing the Wheel" Occasionally you get people who ignore this philosophy hence: ReactOS, but most people don't want to and can you blame them. It has saved thousands upon thousands of lines of code.

---

### Post by hero1900 on 2010-11-06
actually they don't want to make this kind of operating system i think because wine and these kind of application is just not so stable and cant be stable since Microsoft as we all know is a closed source company and also greedy want all people to use there products and nothing else so they will try so hard to make it so hard for others to used there product in another platform such as linux. thats why people should try to use applications that are linux native made for linux in the first place. if you cant found it try to ask others. if you want games then try wine which will not work with all stuff

---

### Post by I'mGeorge on 2010-11-06
> **Hjorth said:**
> It's not that. I know all about that but why can't someone make a Linux that can use .exe files without Wine?

'cause it would be fairly meaningless, as long as there's Windows. Almost all windows apps have linux equivalents and those who have none obviously nobody was interested in porting them to linux.

---

### Post by Hjorth on 2010-11-06
Linux is free, Windows isn't.. You would save money! :D

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-06
> **Hjorth said:**
> Hello,
I have a question, why don't they make a Linux take can execute .exe files?:confused:

/ Hjorth

Actually, why SHOULD they?? Linux is not a Free version of MS Windows; it's a free Alternative to MS Windows.  

Ability to run MS Windows apps is NOT a criteria by which any Linux distro should be judged -- anymore than you would judge an MS Windows OS based on its ability to run Linux apps.

If you're that hooked on MS Windows that you need to run their .exe's -- then you should stay with MS Windows.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-11-06
Any operating system that can run .exe files without using a compatibility layer would be a windows clone. For that, look at reactos which has already been mentioned. Although I gather that reactos also uses wine somehow.

Linux is not windows. It has different origins and significantly different internal details. The differences are quite profound and extend from how you read/write files to how you create windows and buttons etc. For this reason, a compatibility layer (wine) is needed to convert the windows requests an exe makes into the kind of requests linux understands. 

Such compatibility layers aren't that unusual actually. Windows has a similar compatibility layer that allows it to run old 16-bit .exe files. I'm not sure if 64-bit windows has a similar layer to allow it to run 32-bin .exe files.

---

### Post by Hjorth on 2010-11-06
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> Actually, why SHOULD they?? Linux is not a Free version of MS Windows; it's a free Alternative to MS Windows.  

Ability to run MS Windows apps is NOT a criteria by which any Linux distro should be judged -- anymore than you would judge an MS Windows OS based on its ability to run Linux apps.

If you're that hooked on MS Windows that you need to run their .exe's -- then you should stay with MS Windows.

Windows doesn't work on my own computer so that's why I use Linux. I have a computer with Windows but it's not in my room so I can't stay up all night playing games.

---

### Post by czr114 on 2010-11-07
Perhaps the easiest solution would be using VirtualBox to run Windows within Ubuntu.

For most purposes, a VirtualBox with Windows running from Ubuntu will suffice.

If you need that executable to interact fully with the rest of your system, I'd question what it's being used for, and if it's so critical, why you're using Ubuntu as a primary in the first place.

---

### Post by Hjorth on 2010-11-07
It says right over your reply that Windows doesn't work on my computer, but thanks for the tips anyways, I will try Virtualbox with Xp.

---

