---
title: "8.10 ntfs mount problem"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by beholder_lt on 2008-10-26
hello,
today i installed ubuntu 8.10 rc (fresh install, not update)
the first issue i have encountered is that it doesn't mount my ntfs drives automatically.
also, it shows those unmount buttons for my drives like for my dvd drive.
screenshot attached.
any sugesstions?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-10-26
You can check your gconf-editor settings to see if your drives/media are set to automount:
```
gconf-editor /apps/nautilus/preferences/media_automount
```

**Added:** I just posted an NTFS mount response for putting it in fstab on another thread here :
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=959315]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=959315")

---

### Post by PrinceArithon on 2008-10-26
You may have to edit your fstab to mount the drives automatically on start up.

---

### Post by beholder_lt on 2008-10-26
i hope i just fixed it with ntfs-config after some google-work. restarting in 5.. 4... :D

///
one more problem:
the shut down button in the upper-right corner contains only guest session, log off and lock selections, though the first time i booted 8.10 it contained restart, shut down etc. 
anyone has encountered this?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-10-26
It's a new feature. Some people like it, others don't. You can get the 'shutdown/quit' button on the panel by right clicking, Add to Panel, and selecting the 'Shutdown' button. This button gives you the Shutdown, Restart, Suspend and Hibernate options.

---

### Post by beholder_lt on 2008-10-26
hey, but i swear that when i booted 8.10 first time it had those selections like shut down and restart!

---

### Post by beholder_lt on 2008-10-26
solved thanks to ktp,
power management needed for them to appear.

---

