---
title: "11.04 booting into command line"
date: 2011-06-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ninestone on 2011-06-05
[Background: GDM was using a blocky gray windows-like theme, regardless of appearance settings.  I decided to try lightDM, but that was a disaster - booted to a black screen. I managed to get into a console to change the dm back to gdm, but now it always boots to command line and I can't figure out how to have it boot to gdm again.]

After logging in to the command line, I can type

'sudo service gdm start' to get the desktop going.

When going into grub, I just have the options (in brief)
Ubuntu
Ubuntu - recovery
memtest1
memtest2

I pick the first and it always boots to command line.

What can I do to get it to boot into the gdm login screen again?

Thanks

---

### Post by Ninestone on 2011-06-06
I'm guessing there's a startup script or file that probably needs to be edited to start gdm, but I don't know what/where.

I'd really appreciate your help!

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-06-06
Did you try reinstalling and reconfiguring?

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall gdm && sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm
```

---

### Post by Ninestone on 2011-06-07
Thanks for the suggestion.

I reinstalled gdm, and did the reconfigure.  (Edit - I originally misread the reconfigure line; I got it to execute properly but it didn't help)

Unfortunately I still have the same issue; it won't boot to the desktop.

---

### Post by Ninestone on 2011-06-08
Hallelujah!

Got it working.  Discovered the file
```
/etc/X11/default-display-manager
```

was blank!  I set the contents to the following, from another Ubuntu machine:

```
/usr/sbin/gdm


```

NOW it boots to desktop!

---

