---
title: "Dual boot problem: Windows XP can't install device &quot;Volume&quot;"
date: 2008-01-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by monocongo on 2008-01-18
I have a dual boot Windows XP / Ubuntu system, and after repartitioning the drives to give back some space to Windows I now get the following error message (three times) every time I boot into Windows:

Device installer error:  Windows could not load the installer for Volume. Contact your hardware vendor for assistance.

It seems to have slowed down my Windows boot by 4-5 minutes, so I'm not happy and would like to make this stop.  After an exhaustive search the best thing I've found is someone who said that a friend had rid himself of this error by somehow making it so that Windows no longer sees the Linux partitions (I assume that they mean that the Linux partitions are the ones seen as "Volume" and Windows gets confused by these).  Apparently this is a generic error message which can occur whenever Windows isn't happy about some new or changed hardware, and there appear to be very few folks who have actually fixed their problems (big surprise, the best fix is to quit using Windows).  I'm hoping that with some help from this forum I can somehow become an exception and lick this.

Is this a reasonable approach (remove the Linux partitions from Windows' visibility), and if so then how might I make this happen?  Any suggestions are kindly appreciated, thanks in advance!

--James

---

### Post by tgilber1 on 2008-01-18
1.  Are you using GRUB?
2.  Provide partition info such as # of partitions and their filesystem type

---

### Post by monocongo on 2008-01-18
> 1. Are you using GRUB?

I'm pretty sure that I am using GRUB.  How can I verify this?

> 2. Provide partition info such as # of partitions and their filesystem type

Below is my /etc/fstab file, please advise if there is another place I can look for further file system information, and if so I will follow up with that information as well.

$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=01a5909f-7770-400b-8bbc-13d76dbdf48e / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda6 :
UUID=3dfbca45-9ee4-4c8c-a238-cc8378476f57 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
#UUID=9E2CEC972CEC6C29 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
#UUID=423B-2BDF /media/hda2 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=B698DE1298DDD0CB /media/second ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda3 :
UUID=ad2064a2-ee66-45fb-9dfe-9d5107e11296 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
# Entry for USB external drive
/dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,rw,user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by Yaniv80 on 2008-06-23
I have the same issue. 
I don't see anything during boot, but whenever i boot to ubuntu and back to XP i lose the sound (in xp), which still works fine when i go back to ubuntu.
Note, this only happens after a boot switch, if i were to restart the machine from xp to xp, the sound would still work... 

I'm using an external creative Extigy sound card and i just noticed that if i turn the volume ridiculously loud on the reciever, i hear sound faintly.

It seems that "device volume" in volume control is set to minimum, and in trying to adjust it, it just jumps back to minimum when you press "apply".

Something with the dual boot is messing up the device volume.

Did you ever solve your problem by hiding the linux partition?
if so, what did you do exactly?

oh and yes, i'm using grub, i'm also using boot.ini
partitions are:

ext3 ubuntu
ntfs xp
ntfs data (shared partition for both)

i'm calling grub from boot.ini

---

