---
title: "8.04 Hanging at System Startup"
date: 2010-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sweetpea24 on 2010-01-31
**Edit:** I've traced the problem back to scim (smart common input platform).  Please see next post.

I'm running Ubuntu 8.04.  This is not a fresh install.  It was working fine until only a few weeks ago.  Recently, the system has been having problems starting.  After I log in via gdm the system starts to hang until I kill scim.

Smart Common Input Method 1.4.7
 Mobile Intel(R) Celeron(R) CPU 2.20GHz
Linux momonti-laptop 2.6.24-27-generic #1 SMP Wed Jan 27 23:54:28 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux
```
MemTotal:       221116 kB
MemFree:         14932 kB
SwapTotal:     1020116 kB
SwapFree:       764404 kB
```

I've checked /etc/network/interfaces to make sure localhost is listed.

I have checked the integrity of the hard disk using **SpinRite** and I've used **Windows XP Home** off of a partition on the same disk since this problem has started.  I do not think its a hard drive problem.

**Edit**: Please see next post.

---

### Post by sweetpea24 on 2010-02-07
Ok, I've traced the problem back to scim.

After I entered my login information in gdm, I switched to a tty (crtl+alt+1) and ran top and htop.  I saw that scim was hogging all of my ram and I killed it.  Magically gnome finished starting almost immediately. 

To see the logs I copied syslog archives from /var/log to ~/syslog and ungizipped them.
```
$ mkdir ~/syslog && cp /var/log/syslog* ~/syslog
$ cd ~/syslog
$ gunzip -d *.gz
```Next, I concatonated all the logs and grepped for "scim" 
```
cat * | grep scim
```I've attached the logs below and pasted it here: [http://pastebin.ca/1789451](http://pastebin.ca/1789451)

From here, I'm not sure what to do.  How do I fix scim so that it doesn't crash at system startup?

---

### Post by sweetpea24 on 2010-02-21
Since the problem was with scim I hastily deleted the .scim directory in ~/.  Fortunately, this fixed the problem and the system has been starting quickly since.

---

