---
title: "12.04LTS Linux-Bro (can someone tell me how to shrink memory footprint the best?)"
date: 2012-06-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by slixz85 on 2012-06-14
hi. i have recently downloaded and installed linux-bro. I like it however I am used to bodhi wattos and such taking up only 100-125mb ram and this is taking up about 250 mb ram. the only reason i am using it is to have a 12.04LTS WITHOUT GNOME CRAP. it is using xfce which is lightweight already.
the linux-bro download was about 1.5gb i understand because of the download size more packages and what not are installed but i am just a bit confused on one thing.

applications that start up with the computer are what i mainly thought use ram and somehow no applications are appearing in the taskbar besides the main network sound and email icon that is it. I am just trying to figure out where the memory usage is from since i know it can be trimmed down somehow.  this linux-bro had 1700 or 1800 packages when i installed it. now i have trimmed it down to just 1500 without even trying. i just want to install my games on this 12.04 LTS xfce. i like linux-bro from the features it has. but can someone fully explain please what could be taking up the memory. the session and startup autostart tab shows only network manager enabled, not even secret service gpg etc.
it seems the session already starts out minimal but some apps/processes gotta be hiding.
thanks to any help

also the task manager processes are about the same size (as in how many processes) as bodhi and what not are anyway.

---

