---
title: "11.04 Live-CD cannot read ext4 filesystem"
date: 2011-08-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stepheny on 2011-08-18
I want to install 11.04 next to my working 10.04 system. First I need to make room for the new system so I have booted from a live cd and started GParted. In GParted the partition with the 10.04 system on it, /dev/sda1, has a red circle with an exclamation mark in it and I cannot resize it. When I doubleclick on /dev/sda1 there is the following warning

> Failed to change to directory '.'(Stale NFS file handle) 
Failed to change to directory '.'(Stale NFS file handle) 
Unable to read the contents of this file system!
Because of this some operations may be unavailable.

The following list of software packages is required for ext4
file system support: e2fsprogs v1.41+.

The 10.04 system is working and has worked like a dream for a couple of years and the machine has never had any other system on it.

Why would the live CD not be able to read ext4 fs?

Any help greatly appreciated

---

### Post by IT Support on 2011-08-18
believe  10.04 is best then 11.04   :)


11.04 unity is awful  for me

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-08-18
@stepheny, this is interesting:

> **stepheny said:**
> When I doubleclick on /dev/sda1 there is the following warning

```
Failed to change to directory '.'(Stale NFS file handle)
Failed to change to directory '.'(Stale NFS file handle)
Unable to read the contents of this file system!
Because of this some operations may be unavailable.

[COLOR="Red"]The following list of software packages is required for ext4
file system support: e2fsprogs v1.41+.[/COLOR] 
```

The package e2fsprogs 1.41.14-1ubuntu3 is included in the live CD ISO for 11.04. Which means that you probably have a bad burn, or the CD was misread when being booted. Perhaps something as simple as a fleck of dust on the CD surface.

I can assure you that Gparted in the 11.04 live session can read, create, resize and generally manipulate ext4 filesystems quite OK.

---

### Post by stepheny on 2011-08-18
@coffeecat. Thanks, I polished the cd and tried again and lo and behold it works!

@IT Support. I have been using Unity on my laptop for about two weeks now and I think its great.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-08-18
> **stepheny said:**
> @coffeecat. Thanks, I polished the cd and tried again and lo and behold it works!

Perhaps this should be included in the official documentation - "don't forget to polish your CDs". :wink:

---

