---
title: "18.04 does not allow me to load the gui for Teamviewer 13"
date: 2018-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-10-20
TV13 does not load its GUI on my computer. I have had some support from TV, but not enough to find why I can not use TV13 and TV12, and they are very reluctant to help effectively. 

> It looks like you are using some sort of firewall or other tool that limits network access to localhost, e.g. iptables, SELinux, AppArmor or similar. The only thing I see is that our processes are unable to connect to each other.

On a new, stock Ubuntu installation you should not have such problems, but I don't know what is different on your system.

 I ran sudo iptables -L and that showed there is no blocking. 

How can I test their claim because I did a reinstall previously  and have not set up a firewall.

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2018-10-20
so, are you having problem with host or client? 
Have you checked logs? any specific errors? what are the screen resolutions for both host and client (this should not matter as tv is good at scaling but weird things happen)?
I am running it without any issues on 18.04.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-10-20
My problem is loading TV. When I click on the TV icon it does not open up and present the graphics interface. The problem arises before it is either a host or a client.

Here is the process via terminal:

> robins@robins-desktop:~$ teamviewer

Init...
CheckCPU: SSE2 support: yes
Checking setup...
Launching TeamViewer ...
Launching TeamViewer GUI ...
robins@robins-desktop:~$ 



The logs were checked by TV support. As shown in my quote from them:

> The only thing I see is that our processes are unable to connect to each other.

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2018-10-20
I have systemd script to launch it at boot. 
I will try out your command and get back to you.
I do recall a while (a few years) ago that TV was asking for a directory which needed to be manually created.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-10-21
i have found the underlying cause is arising from running my vpn all the time. I just disabled the and for the first time VPN TV13 loaded! Do you have any suggestion as to why the VPN should prevent ConfigurationHub features being registered (That what the install log seems to suggest is the problem?

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2018-10-21
No clue. I have no experience with VPN. So, you might have better guess.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-10-21
Thank you for the support you were able to give me. After at least a month I can now access TV for which my sister will be most grateful.

---

