---
title: "Karmic: Virtualbox Module needs recompiling after every reboot"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SamD42 on 2009-11-07
I'm having a few issues which may or may not be related, however I figured they were worth mentioning together on the offchance.

Firstly upon every restart I have to recompile the kernel driver for virtualbox after getting this message:

[I]Kernel driver not installed (rc=-1908 )

The VirtualBox Linux kernel driver (vboxdrv) is either not loaded or there is a permission problem with /dev/vboxdrv. Re-setup the kernel module by executing

'/etc/init.d/vboxdrv setup'[/I]

Notably none of the necessary files that are generated by this in /dev are there after a reboot. I've tried reinstalling DKMS in synaptic just in case, but to no effect.

Possibly related is an issue i'm having with Grub 2. Last night's update fixed a problem whereby the countdown did not appear at the boot selection screen, however this lasted for exactly one reboot. Behavior has now returned to normal and grub will now wait for input before booting anything.

Any ideas? I've had a good search around for both issues but I've not come up with anything so far. Help would be much appreciated!

Kernel version is 2.6.31-14-generic-pae, arch is i686 and OS is Karmic. Vbox version is 3.0.10 from the Ubuntu repos.

---

### Post by SamD42 on 2009-11-07
Solved after seeing this - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1313989](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1313989)

Adding "vboxdrv" to /etc/modules file worked great. Cheers!

---

