---
title: "14.04 LTS - GNU C/C++ compiler"
date: 2016-04-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-04-13
I upgraded to 14.04 LTS and made all updates. It appears that the install includes gcc, for which the man page says to be GNU C/C++. So, I assume that a version of GNU C/C++ compiler package is installed with 14.04 LTS. I recompiled some of my c files successfully.  However, when I tried to compile a C++ program via make, the error message says g++ is not found.

My simple makefile looks like this:

LDFLAGS = -lm
CFLAGS  = -O3
CC = gcc


OBJS =     read.o \
    cmp.o


read : $(OBJS) read.h
    ${CC} ${CFLAGS} -o $@ $(OBJS) ${LDFLAGS} 

The source files are read.h, read.C and cmp.C.

Here is the error message:

:~/sbox$ make
g++    -c -o read.o read.C
make: g++: Command not found
make: *** [read.o] Error 127
:~/sbox$

Why is make/gcc looking for g++?

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2016-04-13
The uppercase .C suffix by default identifies the file as C++ source, I think

For example

```

$ make somefile
cc -Wall -g    somefile.c   -o somefile

```
but
```

$ rm somefile
$ mv somefile.c somefile.C
$ 
$ make somefile
g++     somefile.C   -o somefile

```

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-04-13
The source files are in xx.C and yy.h.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-04-13
The point is that g++ is not in the GNU C/C++ compiler package that was included in the 14.04 LTS install. According to the man page, gcc is the compilation command for both C and C++ and I assume it automatically detects C and C++ source files and compiles accordingly. But the make/gcc in my 14.04 LTS is looking for g++ instead and I don't understand why.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2016-04-13
You may have been confused by the terminology - 'gcc' in some contexts is used to mean the 'GNU Compiler Collection' and in others to mean the plain C compiler provided by that collection

Regardless, at least in Ubuntu, the g++ binary is provided by a separate package - if you install the **build-essential** package you will get both gcc and g++

In your case, it is `make` that is deciding to call g++ - that's because you have specified an explicit rule to make the executable from its object file

```

read : $(OBJS) read.h
    ${CC} ${CFLAGS} -o $@ $(OBJS) ${LDFLAGS}

```

but are relying on `make`'s default rule to make read.o from read.C - since you have used an upper-case .C, `make` is applying the default .C:.o rule (which is to use `g++`, since by convention .C indicates a C++ file)

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-04-14
Thank you for the reply. I typed man gcc in a terminal and the manual says it is a GNU C/C++ compiler. According to this man page, gcc is for C as well as C++ compilation; g++ is optional which treats C and C library in C++ compilation.

---

