---
title: "16.10 stopped recognising SD cards - even if plugged into USB adapter."
date: 2018-08-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eddugo on 2018-08-15
I put in an SD card with an MP4.  Done it before many times.  This time it flashed an error message on the screen and now will not recognize any SD cards.  Thank you in advance for help fixing this problem

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2018-08-15
Unfortunately, I no longer remember the details in 16.10. It has been end of life since mid 2017. You may wish to either upgrade to Bionic, or reinstall 16.04 which is an LTS and will be supported until 2021.

In any case, it is not possible to help with such limited info. What did the error message say? You may also be able to get clues about the problem from your logs.

---

### Post by eddugo on 2018-08-15
I will upgrade.  Thank you.  Should I mark this solved??

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2018-08-15
You may not wish to mark it solved until you've actually upgraded and the problem goes away. If upgrading does not solve the problem, you may wish to post here again for further help.

When upgrading, make sure you back up your data. Then, I would suggest a pristine install—not an upgrade over the net. You will have problems upgrading an end of life OS through three versions to arrive at 18.04.

Good luck! Be sure to let us know how it goes.

---

### Post by eddugo on 2018-08-16
Hi again;  Did a pristine install and created more problems.  My hard drive got chopped up into 9 partitions and I have a very small home folder.  This is dual booted with windows 10 and when I first installed it a couple years ago, I had to get help as it was not installed properly.  I guess I will have to have you look at the partitions and advise.  Do I need to start a new thread for this problem or can we handle it here?

Thank you

Ed

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2018-08-16
Best to start a new thread. I'm afraid that I'm not of much help when it comes to partitioning problems. I don't run Windows in any dual boot, and with the modern Windows requirement for secure boot, I'm completely out of my depth. However, there are many other Forum members who dual boot and can straighten out problems for you. Best to post in Installations & Upgrades subforum.

---

### Post by eddugo on 2018-08-23
Hi again;

got the problem with the Home folder fixed.  My only problem now is the sd card reader.  I have tried other cards - does not recognize them  (they work in other computers).  Also, I have a USB, SD card reader.  If I use that, the card shows up in "Discs" with no data.  Still does not show up in home menu at all.

thank you

Ed

---

