---
title: "[18.04 server] MDADM not working with kernel 4.15.0-192-generic and more than 2 disks"
date: 2022-09-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by b0b89 on 2022-09-14
I'm running ubuntu 18.04 LTS server edition, experiencing this on multiple machines so it's not a hardware issue. 

I noticed after a reboot that my raid array was not working and during troubleshooting I ended up trying to simply recreate it. But got the error "Operation not supported" 

```

sudo mdadm --create --verbose /dev/md0 --level=0 --raid-devices=3 /dev/sdb2 /dev/sdc /dev/sdd
mdadm: chunk size defaults to 512K
mdadm: Defaulting to version 1.2 metadata
mdadm: RUN_ARRAY failed: Operation not supported

```

I also tried making partitions on sdc and sdd and using /dev/sdc1 and /dev/sdd1 to see if it was a problem of using a mixture of partitions and disks but got the same error. 

After a lot of troubleshooting I figured out that it works if I use only 2 disks, and that it works if I boot into an older kernel. 

```

#using two disks
sudo mdadm --create --verbose /dev/md0 --level=0 --raid-devices=2 /dev/sdc /dev/sdd
mdadm: chunk size defaults to 512K
mdadm: Defaulting to version 1.2 metadata
mdadm: array /dev/md0 started.

```

am I doing something wrong creating this raid array?

EDIT: My solution for now has been to revert to an old kernel and uninstall 4.15.0-192 on all machines running this sort of configuration to prevent them from ending up booting into the latest kernel.

---

### Post by jremitz on 2022-10-13
I can confirm that we also have seen this issue. Rather than reverting to an earlier version of the kernel, I tested the same operations on Ubuntu 20.04 and they are successful.  So it appears that upgrading, if it's an option, may be another workaround.

---

### Post by thebearak on 2022-10-13
This is interesting, because I just upgraded a server to 22.04.1 and had all kinds of problems with mdadm and my two raids.  getting errors like RUN_ARRAY failed:

Because of other issues, I downgraded back to 20.04.5 and everything worked as expected.  Sorry, I really can't go into details because I was under pressure to just get the machine back up and running.

---

