---
title: "11.10 &gt; Multifunction / All in one - Is there any one brand that consistently works?"
date: 2012-03-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by YMS_1975 on 2012-03-12
I'm looking to purchase a multifunction/all in one scanner/copier/fax/printer.

I already have one (MFC-465CN), but could never get it to work with Ubuntu ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=937898](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=937898)).

After posting about the problem, investigating online, and consulting with a few of my Linux savvy friends I gave up. I've been without a printer/scanner for far too long in a bid to give my existing model a chance to work with Ubuntu.

Seems like it ain't gonna happen. So I wanted to know if there's a multifunction brand out there that works flawlessly with all versions of Ubuntu straight out of the box.

Thanks.

---

### Post by zero2xiii on 2012-03-12
Hay,

The short answer, Yes.

HP printers work.. We had 2 (The previous one broke) and the second one (almost a year old now) worked straight out of the box on the 10.04 machine I'm currently on, and works over the network with my 11.04 laptop install.

If however your model is to new? HP does support ubuntu and you can download the drivers from their site. Haven't had any "downtime" do to software or drivers.

Cherz

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-03-12
> **zero2xiii said:**
> Hay,

The short answer, Yes.

HP printers work.. We had 2 (The previous one broke) and the second one (almost a year old now) worked straight out of the box on the 10.04 machine I'm currently on, and works over the network with my 11.04 laptop install.

If however your model is to new? HP does support ubuntu and you can download the drivers from their site. Haven't had any "downtime" do to software or drivers.

Cherz
+1

HP for me as I have never been let down yet.  Don't go for a totally new model, however, as the hplip drivers may not yet be written for it, see if you can find a model that has been around for a few months.  The latest hplip package 3.12.2 from [http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/gethplip.html](http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/gethplip.html) may help if the model you choose is not supported by the version of hplip in ubuntu.

---

