---
title: ".txt files open as &quot;unsaved Document&quot; in gedit"
date: 2006-11-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rigol on 2006-11-25
Hi again,

My problem are my .txt files. On doubleclicking them in the file browser they open in gedit as "Unsaved Document", an empty file. When opening them with gedit --> File --> Open... they come up all right.

Sometimes it's this way, sometimes they open correctly on doubleclick.

How can I solve this?


Thanks!

---

### Post by rigol on 2006-11-27
Anyone?

---

### Post by fragos on 2006-11-27
Run the menu editor available when you right click the Applications meue item.  Select Acessories and right click Text Editor then Properties.  The Command entry field should say "gedit %U".  The behavior you describe sounds like this field only says "gedit".

---

### Post by rigol on 2006-11-28
No, it says "gedit %U" like it should.

---

### Post by OzzyFrank on 2007-12-18
I've started having Gedit open blank unsaved files too, if I directly double click them in Nautilus. Use a command like for xorg.conf or to view sources.list, no worries. Same thing for launchers I have created for specific text files. But just try to open one directly where it is sitting, forget it! I assume this must be some sort of bug? Anyone else know more about this?

---

### Post by OzzyFrank on 2007-12-18
And if anyone knows what caused this, let us know!

---

### Post by solitone on 2008-01-04
I've noticed I have this issue when I take advantage of a location type launcher. When I select that location, Nautilus opens and I try to open a text file, gEdit starts with an empty "Unsaved Document 1" page, and not the file.

However when I start Nautilus from scratch and navigate to the same location (so without using the launcher), I can effectively open that file and gedit just shows it!

---

