---
title: "10.10 boot up problems after update"
date: 2010-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hoshino. on 2010-10-20
I'm not entirely sure actually if it's the update for 10.10 that I did last night, because reboot right after everything was installed went fine, but today, after just trying to use my computer, I can't get past some kind of terminal on the left side of the screen, the rest of the screen being black, it happens right after splash, so it's where the normal log in screen should be. For now, the closest I've got to getting into my computer is just by typing 'exit' and then the normal 10.10 log-in screen appears asking for username and pass, but after the password I get back to the same thing.

I would maybe know what to try if I knew what the problem was exactly... grub? kinda doubtful. Ubuntu is the sole OS on the computer....

---

### Post by hoshino. on 2010-10-20
now looks like i posted it as soon as the problem appeared and then resolved it, but really, its been a bit longer :P

did ctrl-alt-f1 and startx.

sorted.

wondering what caused it?

---

### Post by hoshino. on 2010-10-20
didn't get far with that, as soon as the computer went to sleep, i was back at square one...now startx doesn't help, showing up ..If this server is no longer running, remove /tmp/.X0-lock and start again..

at one point i managed to log in as root and use full desktop but now it's the same thing, actually doing sudo shutdown now it's stalled at splash... nice

---

### Post by hoshino. on 2010-10-21
cant solve it and dont want to opt for dual os :(

---

### Post by johnthei on 2010-10-21
i had similar problem

gave up after several tries, even tried with burning disc of 10.10

went back and did new install of 10.4 version, which seems to work for me as of this morning before i went to work.

---

### Post by Marcos.Rufino on 2010-10-28
I've got this same problem. It's something related with the kernel update of yesterday. What I did was to reboot the system with the shift key pressed (to enter grub) and opt for the older kernel version.

---

