---
title: "Disable multiple instances?"
date: 2009-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wintersun on 2009-08-19
Hi!

Would it be possible to disable multiple instances for some applications? It gets really annoying when using audio players and such...

Thanks!

---

### Post by wintersun on 2009-08-19
bump

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-08-19
You could easily write a bash shell script to check whether the program is running and not start another copy.

---

### Post by wintersun on 2009-08-19
> **Slim Odds said:**
> You could easily write a bash shell script to check whether the program is running and not start another copy.

I could?

How? I'm very new to linux, so I really don't know. Could you please explain a little bit?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-08-19
I know vlc has a setting to allow only one instance of itself, not sure about other programs. Perhaps if you tell us which program(s) you're using, someone could better advise you.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-08-19
> **wintersun said:**
> I could?

How? I'm very new to linux, so I really don't know. Could you please explain a little bit?

the 'ps' command can tell you what's running.

you can use the Advanced Bash Scripting Guide to learn how to use bash ([http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/](http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/))

---

### Post by kaibob on 2009-08-19
The shell script shown below will prevent multiple instances of most programs. If the program is running, the script issues an error with zenity; otherwise it starts the program. I have separated process from command because the two might be different in some cases. To find the name of the process, load the application and then locate it near the bottom of the list generated by:

```
ps -e
```

I don't know if zenity is installed by default. If not, it can be installed with synaptic.

```
#!/bin/bash

process="firefox-3.5"
command="firefox-3.5"

status=$(pgrep -c "$process")

if [ "$status" -ne 0 ] ; then 
   zenity --error --text "${process} is already running!"
else
   "$command"
fi
```

Perhaps obvious, but this script will only prevent multiple instances a program when you use the script to start the program. The use of a panel launcher for this script would be a good option. Also, this script will not work with some applications, such as the Nautilus file manager.

EDIT: 08.23.09

I played around with this and came up with an alternate approach that is easier to use. The OP has resolved his issue, but I thought I would add this for future reference.

```
#!/bin/bash

command="nautilus --geometry=1150x700+7+40 /home/kaibob/"
title="File Browser"

running=$(wmctrl -l | grep "$title")

if  [ "$running" ] ; then 
#1   wmctrl -a "$title"
#2   zenity --error --text "${title} is already running!"
else
   $command
fi
```

In using this script:

* You have to change command and title. Command is the command-line normally used to start the application. Title is all or a portion of the application's window title. Title should only include that part of the window title that does not change. With Nautilus, I used "File Browser". 

* If the application is already running, the user has two options. One is to have the script issue a zenity dialog notification. If this is desired, delete line #1 and remove "#2" from the front of the next line. The other option is to have the script change focus to the application. If this is desired, delete line #2 and remove "#1" from the front of the preceding line.

---

### Post by wintersun on 2009-08-20
Thank you all very very much. At first I needed this to stop multiple instances for an audio player I wanted to use. Now I have one that is set up for a single instance.

But I might really need this info sooner or later!

Thank you once again :)

---

### Post by kapcom01 on 2010-05-12
This script is awesome but it doesnt work for hidden windows like KMess or emesene.
I would like to have a launcher for emesene which doesnt start another instance but bringing up the hidden window or focusing the already opened window.

is it possible?

---

### Post by kaibob on 2010-05-14
kapcom01

I don't have either kmess or emesene installed on my computer, so there's no way for me to work on this. Perhaps, with this bump, another forum member will be able to help.

As an aside, I use these start/focus scripts a great deal and played around with various alternatives. Surprisingly, after running some timing tests, I found the fastest script was in the following format:

```
#!/bin/sh

title="ShopPad"

command="leafpad --tab-width=3 /home/kaibob/documents/ShopPad"

wmctrl -a "$title" || $command
```

The thought occured to me that the above is simple enough that I could dispense with the shell script and simply use it as a command in a launcher. For some reason, I couldn't get this to work. 

kaibob

---

