---
title: "optimize xorg.conf for nvidia-1.0-9629 on Dapper"
date: 2006-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cmost on 2006-12-03
Hi guys!  I just used the fantastic 'envy' script to upgrade my nvidia driver to the latest stable version.  I want to optimize my xorg.conf to take full advantage of the new driver, and my card, which is a GeForce FX 5200 with 256 MB DDR RAM.  I am currently running Ubuntu 6.06.1 (Dapper) fully-up-to-date and am very happy with it.  I'm also running Beryl SVN 0.1.3 on XGL, which is working pretty flawlessly.  I realize Edgy has AIGLX enabled by default, but I decided to sit out Edgy until Feisty appears after reviewing the numerous horror stories by those who tried to upgrade Dapper to Edgy.  My current /etc/X11/xorg.conf is listed below.  I would really appreciate any tips you guys might have on wringing every drop of performance.  Thanks!

Xorg.conf
code:
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Option 		"NvAGP" "3"  # Tries internal nVidia AGP drivers first
    	Option 		"RenderAccel" "true"
	Option          "TripleBuffer"	"true"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"
	Option		"DPMS" "true"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"IBM P275"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-130
	VertRefresh	48-170
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"IBM P275"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x1280" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by reclusivemonkey on 2006-12-03
> **cmost said:**
> Hi guys!  I just used the fantastic 'envy' script to upgrade my nvidia driver to the latest stable version.  I want to optimize my xorg.conf to take full advantage of the new driver, and my card, which is a GeForce FX 5200 with 256 MB DDR RAM.  I am currently running Ubuntu 6.06.1 (Dapper) fully-up-to-date and am very happy with it.  I'm also running Beryl SVN 0.1.3 on XGL, which is working pretty flawlessly.  I realize Edgy has AIGLX enabled by default, but I decided to sit out Edgy until Feisty appears after reviewing the numerous horror stories by those who tried to upgrade Dapper to Edgy.  My current /etc/X11/xorg.conf is listed below.  I would really appreciate any tips you guys might have on wringing every drop of performance.  Thanks!

Where do you find the performance lacking?

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-03
The nVidia drivers implement their own form of AIGLX (and have done for quite a while), so even on Dapper you shouldn't need to use XGL.  That may speed things up, or it might not.

You'd need to add a bunch of options to get that working - the easy way to add them would be through the nvidia-xconfig tool:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --composite --render-accel --allow-glx-with-composite --add-argb-glx-visuals
```

---

### Post by cmost on 2006-12-03
"Where do you find the performance lacking?"

Well, for starters, i'm only getting around 2200 fps in glxgears.  So, obviously something's not optimized.  I know that upgrading to the latest nvidia drivers adds a slew of new features.  Unfortunately, i'm in no way an xorg expert so the reason I posted here is to fall and the feet of you guys and hope for some guidance in setting up my system properly.  Thanks for the suggestions thus far.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-03
> **cmost said:**
> "Where do you find the performance lacking?"

Well, for starters, i'm only getting around 2200 fps in glxgears.  So, obviously something's not optimized.  I know that upgrading to the latest nvidia drivers adds a slew of new features.  Unfortunately, i'm in no way an xorg expert so the reason I posted here is to fall and the feet of you guys and hope for some guidance in setting up my system properly.  Thanks for the suggestions thus far.

Aargh.  Glxgears is a **rubbish** benchmark, in that changes in the way drivers do stuff can dramatically affect the "fps" without actually changing real world performance **at all**.

The fact that you're getting more than a couple of hundred fps out indicates that 3d acceleration is working.  That's pretty much all the information you'll get out of glxgears.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-12-04
[nVidia driver documentation]("http://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9629/README/appendix-d.html"). Knock yourself out.

---

### Post by cmost on 2006-12-04
Obviously I've already read through the nVidia documentation; that was the first place I started.  I'm just not sure what to implement in my xorg.conf and what to leave out, especially for Dapper, which employs the older X.org (doesn't have AIGLX built-in.)  I would very much be interested in learning how to setup my xorg.conf to utilize Beryl/Compiz using only the capabilities of nVidia driver sans AIGLX AND XGL.  Can anyone assist with this?  Thanks!  :p

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-04
> **cmost said:**
> ...I would very much be interested in learning how to setup my xorg.conf to utilize Beryl/Compiz using only the capabilities of nVidia driver sans AIGLX AND XGL.  Can anyone assist with this?  Thanks!  :p

Yes, I can assist.  Run the nvidia-xconfig line I suggested above, install Compiz (or Beryl, if you must :p), and start it.

Setup achieved.

For more information, you could try the big sticky thread at the top of this forum :).

For a simple rundown:
1) Add Gandalfn's repository (details here: [http://gandalfn.wordpress.com/compiz-repository/](http://gandalfn.wordpress.com/compiz-repository/) )
2) Install **compiz-freedesktop** and **gnome-compiz-manager** packages.
3) Go System->Preferences->GL Desktop, and activate (and configure, if you wish) Compiz.
4) Watch your friends be amazed.

---

### Post by cmost on 2006-12-04
Thanks RAOF!  :)

---

### Post by cmost on 2006-12-06
Ok, I had the chance to try this and unfortunately, it did NOT work at all.  The command line 

code:
sudo nvidia-xconfig --composite --render-accel --allow-glx-with-composite --add-argb-glx-visuals

generated a whole new "generic" xorg.conf which replaced my customized one.  That was the first problem.  I printed out the new xorg.conf for reference, then I restored my original xorg.conf (which I had backed up fortunately.)  Next, I incorporated the changes the aforementioned command creates in the appropriate sections.  Finally, I undid any XGL related items from my /etc/GDM/gdm.conf-custom.  When I rebooted, I was able to log into my Gnome session, but, as soon as I tried to start beryl-manager, the screen flickered and booted me out of X to a command prompt.  I'm not sure what the deal is with this.  Any ideas?  I also tried using the xserver-xorg-air-core (since it's designed for use with AIGLX) and loading the DRI modules, but no luck.  Any ideas?  Meanwhile, i've reverted back to XGL and everything works as it should.  Thanks!

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-06
> **cmost said:**
> Ok, I had the chance to try this and unfortunately, it did NOT work at all.  The command line 

code:
sudo nvidia-xconfig --composite --render-accel --allow-glx-with-composite --add-argb-glx-visuals

generated a whole new "generic" xorg.conf which replaced my customized one.  

That's odd.  nvidia-xconfig should modify the existing xorg.conf, not create a new one.

> 
...When I rebooted, I was able to log into my Gnome session, but, as soon as I tried to start beryl-manager, the screen flickered and booted me out of X to a command prompt.  I'm not sure what the deal is with this.  Any ideas?  I also tried using the xserver-xorg-air-core (since it's designed for use with AIGLX) and loading the DRI modules, but no luck.  Any ideas?  Meanwhile, i've reverted back to XGL and everything works as it should.  Thanks!

1) Can you check that OpenGL works at all?  It sounds like your drivers aren't properly installed.  Or possibly:

2) xserver-xorg-air-core **won't** work with the nVidia drivers, and there are no nVidia DRI modules.  You really don't want to have either installed.

---

### Post by cmost on 2006-12-07
Ok, let me try again when I get home this evening.  I can verify that I do have OpenGL working when in my XGL session.  My openGL screen savers work as does glxgears.  I think I tried to make things harder than they needed to be.  I switched to the AIGLX enabled xserver when I now realize that the nvidia drivers do NOT employ AIGLX.  This may be where my problems arose.  I'll try again.  Do you know of an easy way to undo the XGL related stuff quickly, so that I can choose an XGL session versus a "normal" (hopefully nvidia driven 3D experience) session at the GDM login screen?  Thanks again for your diligence and patience.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-07
It is possible to set up an XGL session you can choose from the GDM menu, but it's been ages since I've tried to do that setup.  I've totally forgotten how.

I used a howto on this forum to do it, though.  Maybe a search for "XGL session" will help.

---

### Post by cmost on 2006-12-08
Thanks for helping me RAOF!  I really appreciate your time.  I went ahead and simply added the following to my "devices" section of my existing xorg.conf:

Option    "AddARGBGLXVisuals"  "True"
Option    "TripleBuffer"  "True"

(I already had the triple buffer option.)

I then added this to the end:

Section "Extensions:
Option    "Composite"  "Enable"
EndSection

I commented out all the XGL releated stuff in my GDM.conf-custom
I uninstalled the Xserver-air stuff (reverting to the Xserver 7.0 that shipped with Ubuntu and works great with XGL)

I verified my new nVidia driver was working by running glxgears (works great.)

I rebooted.

When I logged in, everything seemed normal until I tried to start beryl-manager.  The screen flickered, I heard a series of short beeps, and was soundly dumped to the command line.  I don't know what i'm doing wrong.  Using a GeForce FX5200 with 256 MB DDR RAM if that helps.  (AGP isn't working, however.)  I had to disable it due to a bug in my Motherboard's chipset (running an Athlon64 3300+).  Any ideas?  Beryl on XGL does work flawlessly.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-08
I'm out.  Unless you'd like to try Compiz.

If Beryl runs fine on XGL, just use that, I suppose.

---

### Post by Azakus on 2006-12-08
My guess is that since you stopped the AGP action on your motherboard, it's game over for AIGLX. AIGLX needs direct access to the hardware to run with X.org. XGL on the other hand uses processor power to emulate direct hardware access, so it doesn't need to have a completely accessible videocard (it just needs WAY more CPU time).

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-09
> **Azakus said:**
> My guess is that since you stopped the AGP action on your motherboard, it's game over for AIGLX. AIGLX needs direct access to the hardware to run with X.org. XGL on the other hand uses processor power to emulate direct hardware access, so it doesn't need to have a completely accessible videocard (it just needs WAY more CPU time).

Not actually the case.  AIGLX is just an API for giving programs **without** direct access to the hardware GL acceleration.  XGL provides the same service by running **everything** through the GL hardware.

And he's not using Xorg's AIGLX implementation anyway - the nVidia drivers don't use Xorg's DRI, mesa, or practically anything else - they provide their own.  Maybe your buggy motherboard is freaking out the nVidia drivers.

---

### Post by cmost on 2006-12-09
The motherboard i'm using is a Asus K8V-X SE Socket 754 with AMD Athlon64 3300+.  When I first received this motherboard and set it up with Ubuntu, I couldn't get the nvidia driver to work at all.  When the driver would initialize, the screen would either go completely black and do nothing, or, half the screen would be white the other half black.  After a LOT of research, I realized there is a known bug with this mb and 32 bit operating systems.  The system tries to use amd64_agp with AGPGART and it causes a problem which I don't fully understand.  Disabling AGP by blacklisting the amd64_agp module allows me to get 3d acceleration but not at AGP speeds.  Perhaps you guys are right about this bug causing the problem.  I wonder if I would have better luck with Ubuntu 64 bit.  Is the 64bit version of Ubuntu as feature-complete as the 32bit?  Thanks.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-10
Ubuntu 64 is the same code as Ubuntu-i386, just built for x86-64.  So there's pretty much no difference for things in the Ubuntu repositories.

Where you **will** find a difference is closed-source, proprietry software.  By this I mean Flash, Java (browser plugin), and programs you run through Wine.  They generally don't support x86-64 well (no offical Java browser plugin), or at all (no flash plugin).

You can work around these problems with only a little effort, though.  Check out the x86-64 forums for any help you need there.

---

