---
title: "Resolution is stuck on low after install Ubuntu 9.04"
date: 2009-07-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by elvisem on 2009-07-11
Hi all, I hope you can help me. I have spent two days searching all the posts here and have tried most of the suggestions posted with no solution to my problem. I have a GeForce FX5200 card connected to a Sylvania 22" LCD HDTV that can be used as a PC monitor: quote from manufacturer="Using the D-sub 15 pin RGB connector this TV can be connected to your personal computer and run at VESA compatible resolutions up to WXGA". I had the same computer with Windows XP installed to the same monitor with no problems. 
I have installed the Nvidia drivers (173) and are active and in use.
I have tried different edits to the xorg.conf file with no change.
This what my file looks like now:
[SIZE=1]```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```[/SIZE]My resolutions are stuck to 640x480 with no more higher options available. I am new to Linux so please be kind. Any help in detailed steps will be much appreciated.

---

### Post by Finalfantasykid on 2009-07-11
I had a similar problem.  No matter what I changed the resolution in nvidia-settings, whenever I would restart my computer, it would always go back to a lower resolution.  So I tried to change it in the Gnome display settings instead, which seemed to fix it.

You could also try booting into recovery mode(or whatever it is).  It has a tool to reconfigure your xorg.conf file(I don't know if thats the exact same as going "[SIZE=1]  sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg", it very well might be)
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by elvisem on 2009-07-11
the thing is, no matther what I do to the xorg.conf file the resolution options in nvidia-config and for the native display adjustments its low, not even 800x600. I even tried including some resolution numbers for "metamodes". Any other ideas? Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by elvisem on 2009-07-12
bump... I am still reading up on other post here.

---

### Post by elvisem on 2009-07-16
I guess not :(. Going back to Windows. I would of loved to stay with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-07-16
You could try putting ```
        Option          "UseEDID"                       "False"
``` in the Device section to tell X to ignore whatever the TV tells it and use the values you've given it. You might also try looking at /var/log/Xorg.0.log to see why the higher modes aren't selected.

It's "I would have loved to stay with Ubuntu," btw.

---

### Post by elvisem on 2009-07-16
Sorry about that. thanks. I just finished reinstalling XP and I have the resolutions I need back.
I did try the EDID FALSE line and I got mixed results. My tv returned "input not suppoted" a few times and then I got scared I was going to break something so I stopped and waited for a reply here.
I also checked that log file and noticed that all the resolutions except for the low ones exceeded either one or the other sync or refresh values.
Maybe its my tv's fault eventhough it is now working in XP.
I would 'have' loved to have the help a few days earlier.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-07-16
> **elvisem said:**
> I would 'have' loved to have the help a few days earlier.

Ah, the vagaries of time...

Sorry for coming off snarky. It's just that the "I'm off to Windows, you guys are losers" posts are flamebait.

> I also checked that log file and noticed that all the resolutions except for the low ones exceeded either one or the other sync or refresh values.Monitors announce the refresh rates that they can do through EDID. Some monitors don't give out any information at all (or a KVM eats them), and so X assumes, to be on the safe side, that it is an old monitor (EDID's been around for 15 years, after all) and will break if the refresh rates are set too high. Conservative values are chosen and resolutions selected appropriately. In those circumstances just giving X some values to use is sufficient to let X pick some good resolutions.

Sometimes, though, monitors give out completely erroneous values (mine does this). In that situation, X ignores your values to stop you letting the magic smoke out of your new monitor because you haven't changed the config file. To get the appropriate resolutions in this case you need to tell X to just throw away whatever values it receives from the monitor. That's what the UseEDID option is for.

Specifying the values yourself, even when you tell X to ignore what the monitor tells it, is perfectly fine, provided that the values really are appropriate for that monitor and not randomly grabbed from somewhere else for a completely different monitor.

You can tell X to give even more information in the log file about the information it's using to calculate which modes the monitor can do by using the ```
     Option     "ModeDebug"     "True"
``` setting in the Device Section. That's how I discovered that my monitor was passing spurious information to X.

I have no idea why monitor manufacturers can't work out how to provide EDID values. Instead they provide "monitor drivers," which are just those values in a different form. If the manufacturers have prostrated themselves sufficiently they can have those "drivers" included with the Windows install. Which is why your TV works with Windows. You can crib the EDID values from the "driver's" .inf file, which is just a set of Registry entries. I've used this method to acquire values for other posters on this forum.

Good luck either way; whether you try GNU/Linux again or whether you stick with Windows.

---

### Post by elvisem on 2009-07-16
> **CatKiller said:**
> You can crib the EDID values from the "driver's" .inf file, which is just a set of Registry entries. I've used this method to acquire values for other posters on this forum.

I did a quick search here about this but got nothing. Where is this file and how do I read it? I'm on Windows now so might as well look into this, if you don't mind helping me a little bit more. I have a Sylvania 22" tv model LC225SC9, under 'Device Manager' my monitor just shows as 'Default Monitor' with 'no drivers loaded for this device'.
Thanks for your help so far.

P.S. I might try a dual boot install later on to keep trying to make it work.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-07-16
> **elvisem said:**
> Where is this file and how do I read it?

I normally get it from the manufacturer's website and open it in GEdit...

It's years since I used Windows (and I never used XP at that) so I can't tell you where it hides its drivers. system32 or something, I think. I can't actually remember where in the registry the values get stored, either, I'm afraid. Pretty useless when it comes to Windows.

I know I recommended against picking some random value for the VertRefresh and HorizSync values, but I haven't managed to find anything yet on the [page]("http://www.sylvaniaconsumerelectronics.com/product/lcd/LC225SC9/spec.html") for your TV. I did manage to find a couple of pages that seemed to suggest that an appropriate set of ranges for 1366×768 might be

```
        HorizSync       30-83
        VertRefresh     56-76
``` Make of that what you will. Hopefully, since it's a new display device, it will display nothing but the "mode not supported" message rather than trying to do a resolution that it can't do.

---

