---
title: "uninstall GRUB, install LILO"
date: 2007-08-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sippyCUP on 2007-08-09
I know how to install and configure GRUB and LILO for the most part, I just can't get the damned GRUB MBR bootloader to be overwritten by the LILO one. I need lilo because grub just don't work - weird dell issue.

I'm dual booting 7.04 AMD64 and XP pro, I went with grub from the livecd on a dell optiplex 320 (no worky, see thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=409345](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=409345) ) and I needed to change that to GRUB2 or LILO. I uninstalled GRUB by chroot-ing into the installation filesystem with the livecd, installed GRUB2, for some reason it couldn't write to the MBR. Uninstalled GRUB2, installed LILO, when I ran liloconfig it too complained that it couldn't write to the mbr.

Now, when I run the LILO configuration scripts liloconfig and lilo, I get no errors, but it doesn't say anything about the MBR. I have my lilo.conf set up for booting sda3 (my ext3 linux partition) and sda2 (xp pro). I went into gparted and changed the "boot" flag from sda2 (xp pro) to sda3 (ubuntu 7.04). My /etc/fstab is fine to my knowledge, I had to clean it up before liloconfig would run. Here is what it looks like:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda3
/dev/sda3       /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
/dev/sda5       none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0


 I have an "ultimate boot cd" thingy with mbr tools to wipe the MBR, but I'm afraid that would foul up my partition table too... I really don't want to risk destroying the NTFS partition.

It seems to me like nothing has been able to usurp the original GRUB bootloader from GRUB2 to LILO. What would be blocking this? Keep in mind that I'm mounting and chrooting into the hard drive's linux ext3 filesystem that I just installed from the livecd while running ubuntu from the livecd. It's a neat trick (linux newb) but it could be messing me up.

 Anyway, any ideas?

---

### Post by sippyCUP on 2007-08-09
I still have a /boot/grub directory, despite uninstalling the grub package. Should I delete it?

---

### Post by sippyCUP on 2007-08-09
And this is my /etc/lilo.conf file... I added the append="pci=nomsi splash" because this computer has issues with its sata controlller or somesuch and needs that command to boot from disk (or so I'm told).

# Generated by liloconfig

# This allows booting from any partition on disks with more than 1024
# cylinders.
lba32

# Specifies the boot device
boot=/dev/sda3

# Specifies the device that should be mounted as root.
# If the special name CURRENT is used, the root device is set to the
# device on which the root file system is currently mounted. If the root
# has been changed with  -r , the respective device is used. If the
# variable ROOT is omitted, the root device setting contained in the
# kernel image is used. It can be changed with the rdev program.
root=/dev/sda3

# Bitmap configuration for /boot/sarge.bmp
bitmap=/boot/sarge.bmp
bmp-colors=1,,0,2,,0
bmp-table=120p,173p,1,15,17
bmp-timer=254p,432p,1,0,0

# Enables map compaction:
# Tries to merge read requests for adjacent sectors into a single
# read request. This drastically reduces load time and keeps the map
# smaller. Using COMPACT is especially recommended when booting from a
# floppy disk.
# compact

# Install the specified file as the new boot sector.
# LILO supports built in boot sectory, you only need
# to specify the type, choose one from 'text', 'menu' or 'bitmap'.
# new: install=bmp      old: install=/boot/boot-bmp.b
# new: install=text     old: install=/boot/boot-text.b
# new: install=menu     old: install=/boot/boot-menu.b or boot.b
# default: 'menu' is default, unless you have a bitmap= line
# Note: install=bmp must be used to see the bitmap menu.
# install=menu
install=bmp

# Specifies the number of _tenths_ of a second LILO should
# wait before booting the first image.  LILO
# doesn't wait if DELAY is omitted or if DELAY is set to zero.
# delay=20

# Prompt to use certaing image. If prompt is specified without timeout,
# boot will not take place unless you hit RETURN
prompt
timeout=50

# Specifies the location of the map file. If MAP is
# omitted, a file /boot/map is used.
map=/boot/map

# Specifies the VGA text mode that should be selected when
# booting. The following values are recognized (case is ignored):
#   NORMAL  select normal 80x25 text mode.
#   EXTENDED  select 80x50 text mode. The word EXTENDED can be
#     abbreviated to EXT.
#   ASK  stop and ask for user input (at boot time).
#   <number>  use the corresponding text mode. A list of available modes
#     can be obtained by booting with  vga=ask  and pressing [Enter].
vga=normal

# Defines non-standard parameters for the specified disk.
#disk=/dev/sda
#	bios=0x80

# If you are using removable USB drivers (with mass-storage)
# you will need to tell LILO to not use these devices even
# if defined in /etc/fstab and referenced in /proc/partitions.
# Adjust these lines to your devices:
#
# disk=/dev/sda inaccessible
# disk=/dev/sdb inaccessible

# These images were automagically added. You may need to edit something.

image=/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-15-generic
	label="Lin 2.6.20img0"
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-15-generic
	read-only
	append="pci=nomsi splash"

image=/boot/memtest86+.bin
	label="Memory Test+"
	read-only

# If you have another OS on this machine (say DOS),
# you can boot if by uncommenting the following lines
# (Of course, change /dev/hda2 to wherever your DOS partition is.)
 other=/dev/sda2
   label="Windows XP"

---

