---
title: "Root for Home"
date: 2009-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Zeratul021 on 2009-05-13
Hi,

after I upgraded to 9.04 with mounting my old home folder I got the following problem:

When I try to access my home and other folders from menu "Places" on the top Gnome Panel it asks me for password (gksudo). Is there any way to check those links? I had ch/own/grp/mod -R my old home to my new username and I can work there without problems but I have to access it by manually running nautilus and typing address. Thatswhy I suppose the problem is in menu links.

Thanks for any ideas how to find/edit them or solve at all.
Regards,

---

### Post by KhurramM on 2009-05-13
How did u mount it in the first place?

---

### Post by Zeratul021 on 2009-05-14
Default flags(ext3) in installation proces of 9.04

---

### Post by Zeratul021 on 2009-05-14
Any suggestions? Basically I need to know how to places menu works I suspect that it might be in it. Thanks

---

### Post by Locutus_of_Borg on 2009-05-14
i suspect you have no line in /etc/fstab to mount your home directory

---

### Post by Zeratul021 on 2009-05-14
> **Locutus_of_Borg said:**
> i suspect you have no line in /etc/fstab to mount your home directory
But when i acces it via filesystem icon or from nautilus itself, it doesnt prompt me for password, but i better check out my fstab again

//Added - generated by installer
# /home was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=b405b6b0-68cc-42bf-80ff-1e8191e041f1 /home           ext3    relatime        0       2

Anyway, I've installed as usual and this happened never before, still if anyone knows hot the places menu works, i'll be grateful for that information.
Regards

---

### Post by Zeratul021 on 2009-05-18
bump

---

