---
title: "[9.10] Hangs at Shut down~"
date: 2009-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by moarOatz on 2009-12-16
```

init: usplash post-start process (2632) terminated with status 1
modem-manager: Caught signal 15, shutting down...
int: Disconnected from system bus
[1920-520129] INFO: task sync: 2727 blocked for more than 120 seconds.
[1920-520241] "echo 0 > /proc/sys/kernel/hung_task_timeout_secs" disables this message.
...

```
I come back after 6 hours and about 20 lines of that message was on my screen, after I had woken it up (since I anticipated it still being on, since the power light to my laptop was still on (it was plugged in)).

So it won't shut down. How to fix? I didn't type in that "echo ..." code because I didn't want there to be a 0 timeout as that would kill programs that hangs around for only a few seconds (not the ones that don't go away). I don't like killing programs.

---

### Post by moarOatz on 2009-12-16
> **urrek1 said:**
> Well i think you should not do any experiments on your own but take it to the service centre.
Aren't I at the service centre? Is this a hardware thing?

---

### Post by partner007 on 2009-12-16
> **moarOatz said:**
> Aren't I at the service centre? Is this a hardware thing?
(Loved the response to urrek1 btw. ha ha!)

Ya know.... and this is just my .02.
But I just started experiencing this problem after installing "smbfs" to mount windows shares automatically via my /etc/fstab file in Karmic 9.10 (32bit). 

Removing the "smbfs" package seems to have cleared this problem up for me. 
Could you be using the smbfs package too? And if so, I wonder what the difference is between 8.04lts and 9.10 that suddenly causes this issue? I've been running smbfs on my 8.04lts box for some time now with no ill effects. 

Well keep us posted on your resolution! Thanks!

---

### Post by ^_Pepe_^ on 2009-12-18
Hi!

You have a comprehensive guide in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=288534](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=288534), made by dmizer (all credits to him/her).

There, you can find any solutions to shutdown issue, including tha bug (not resolved yet) related.

I'm suffering this bug now on Karmic, and after a couple os test, I have no luck...


Regards

---

### Post by PaulReaver on 2009-12-18
what happens, does the screen go black, and the keyboard go unresponsive?

---

### Post by ^_Pepe_^ on 2009-12-18
> **PaulReaver said:**
> what happens, does the screen go black, and the keyboard go unresponsive?

At least in my case, the case is following:

If I don't manually umount the cifs drive, 9.10 the Ubuntu shutdown splash logo is shown for about 30 sec, and after some message similar to this 

```
[18.312000] CIFS VFS: Server not responding
[18.312000] No response for cmd 5 mid 8

``` 

but like a flash, and after that, logo for 2 minutes, and after that some "forced" message, and finally shutdown.

With no CIFS, (same folder, mounted as NFS mount), shutdown is a matter of 6 seconds (Dell E4200). No exaggerate.

Regards

---

### Post by TangoRom on 2009-12-20
> **moarOatz said:**
> Aren't I at the service centre? Is this a hardware thing?
his answer cracked me up! take it to the service center!!!
the purpose of this community is..THAT'S THE SERVICE CENTER, DUDE! here's where you can get the info and materials and ideas from people with experience, people who enjoy diggin' and searching, experiencing and getting creative: that's LINUX, baby... for click and watch move to stinky windows, where people really take their PC to the service centers. anyway, back to our sheeps: I upgraded to karmic and ever since my system won't shutdow, reboot, logout or soft reset. any idea?
(urrek1, watch how people work togheter...)
thx

---

