---
title: "11.10 is bad,  please help me"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by waaaat on 2011-10-17
I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.10.  Please help me fix everything.  How do I add the time to the top of my screen.  i used to be able to right click and decide what is there.  how do i make it so that i dont have the terrible thing on the left.  how do i get the list of my windows at the bottom again.  how do i make it so that I can see the close and minimize buttons.  this is not a joke.

---

### Post by giowck on 2011-10-17
> **waaaat said:**
> I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.10.  Please help me fix everything.  How do I add the time to the top of my screen.  i used to be able to right click and decide what is there.  how do i make it so that i dont have the terrible thing on the left.  how do i get the list of my windows at the bottom again.  how do i make it so that I can see the close and minimize buttons.  this is not a joke.

Welcome to Unity xD

---

### Post by flipper T on 2011-10-17
overly hyperbolic titles are like Hitler.

...point made ?

..then made redundant by your editing out the reference to cancer

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-10-17
> **waaaat said:**
> I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.10.  Please help me fix everything.  How do I add the time to the top of my screen.  i used to be able to right click and decide what is there.  how do i make it so that i dont have the terrible thing on the left.  how do i get the list of my windows at the bottom again.  how do i make it so that I can see the close and minimize buttons.  this is not a joke.

Dont upgrade blindly before testing or trying.

It is Gnome 3 now with Unity Shell by default, things change and are different

Please read the numerous threads on this forum about the same thing and you will find your answers, these have been asked a 100 times.

Close and minimize appear as you hover your mouse towards the area where you usually see them.

The "terrible thing" on the right is the Unity dock or what i call the dash launcher.

---

### Post by 11jmb on 2011-10-17
```
sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback
```

then reboot and select the "gnome classic" option at login


EDIT: turns out there is a sticky for this. Next time, make sure you read the stickies before posting.

---

### Post by e79 on 2011-10-17
Welcome to Ubuntu forums !

I so laughed at your post title that I felt helping you a bit.

'Unity' is now the default GUI interface in Ubuntu, it has replaced Gnome 2 which you are used to. For now, the top panel is not as configurable as it use to be.

> How do I add the time to the top of my screen
The clock should already be there if working correctly, at the same right-side of the top panel as in Gnome 2.

>  how do i make it so that i dont have the terrible thing on the left
I guess you are referring to the Unity dock, which is, again, the default GUI now, you cannot get rid of it unless you switch to another GUI.

>  how do i get the list of my windows at the bottom again
I still guess you are referring to the tabs at the bottom panel, which does not exist in Unity. Those tabs (shortcuts or opened applications) are now found on the left in the Unity dock. 

>  how do i make it so that I can see the close and minimize buttons.  this is not a joke.
Nope it is not but you still can close-minimize etc. The default context menus are now always on the top panel for a said application. So if you have the mouse focus on Firefox per example, you can access its context menu by dragging your mouse over the top panel (to access your bookmarks for example.)

There is no obligations to stick with Unity, you can always install the Gnome 2 Fallback sessions as described [here]("http://www.webupd8.org/2011/08/installing-using-classic-gnome-desktop.html") or you could also give a try to Gnome-Shell (from the repositories).

Hope this shed a bit of light

---

### Post by waaaat on 2011-10-17
steve@r61steve:~$ sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package gnome-session-fallback

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-10-17
Try ```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback
```
Maybe your repos were not refreshed.

---

### Post by sg1efc on 2011-10-17
> **waaaat said:**
> I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.10.  Please help me fix everything.  How do I add the time to the top of my screen.  i used to be able to right click and decide what is there.  how do i make it so that i dont have the terrible thing on the left.  how do i get the list of my windows at the bottom again.  how do i make it so that I can see the close and minimize buttons.  this is not a joke.

I know Exactly how you feel, LoL.   :)   The info at this link might help you like it helped me:
[http://www.webupd8.org/2011/10/things-to-tweak-after-installing-ubuntu.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/10/things-to-tweak-after-installing-ubuntu.html)

:D

---

