---
title: "12.04 Power Button"
date: 2012-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by amhainen on 2012-05-16
Can the power button be set to just shutdown without the menu prompting which action to take?

When I hit the power button, I just want it turned off. If I have to reboot, I'd just choose that option from the menu and not the power button menu. I have a standby button, so I just want the power button to shutdown. In the settings, only the lid closed settings are available.

Thanks.

---

### Post by kc1di on 2012-05-16
is this on a laptop? if it is have your checked the power settings in System tools?

---

### Post by Ubun2to on 2012-05-16
It's only one mouse click to press shutdown. Anyway, I found these articles when I consulted the Google machine:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/66723/how-do-i-modify-the-power-options-in-ubuntu-11-10](http://askubuntu.com/questions/66723/how-do-i-modify-the-power-options-in-ubuntu-11-10)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/71494/how-do-i-configure-an-action-when-pressing-hardware-power-button](http://askubuntu.com/questions/71494/how-do-i-configure-an-action-when-pressing-hardware-power-button)
I'm pretty sure this will work in 12.04, although it was an answer for 11.10.
I tried seeing if there were any articles for 12.04, but nothing turned up. The documentation pages also turned up nothing of use.

---

### Post by amhainen on 2012-05-16
> **Ubun2to said:**
> It's only one mouse click to press shutdown. Anyway, I found these articles when I consulted the Google machine:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/66723/how-do-i-modify-the-power-options-in-ubuntu-11-10](http://askubuntu.com/questions/66723/how-do-i-modify-the-power-options-in-ubuntu-11-10)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/71494/how-do-i-configure-an-action-when-pressing-hardware-power-button](http://askubuntu.com/questions/71494/how-do-i-configure-an-action-when-pressing-hardware-power-button)
I'm pretty sure this will work in 12.04, although it was an answer for 11.10.
I tried seeing if there were any articles for 12.04, but nothing turned up. The documentation pages also turned up nothing of use.

I tried both of the above. The first article had a good lead...in the dconf-editor, I had to go to 'org/gnome/settings-daemon/plugins/power' and then change the 'button-power' to "shutdown". No luck.

Next, I tried an alternate way using Ubuntu Tweak under 'tweaks/session control' and checked "Suppress the dialog to confirm logout, restart, and shutdown action." No luck.

Finally, I tried the second article using:

```
gconftool --set /apps/gnome-power-manager/buttons/power --type string "shutdown"
```

I rebooted and still no luck. I also checked and there was no /apps directory. Perhaps this is deprecated in 12.04?

So0o, 3 attempts and still no go. And you're right, it is just one click away...however, I frequently am running late and have my Windows and Mac laptops just power off (especially on plane rides).

Thanks for the links.

Anyone else have an idea?

---

### Post by JC Cheloven on 2012-05-16
If you already came down to dconf-editor and still no luck, I'd say you should look outside ubuntu. Perhaps a setting in your bios regarding the behaviour of the power button (something like "send to the OS a shutdown signal" or so). 
BTW, does it work with other OSes (windows) in that machine?

> **amhainen said:**
> Anyone else have an idea?
Perhaps a bit out of context, but under lxde (Lubuntu) there is a straightforward setting for this in the "Energy" section. 
I have it enabled, and otherwise I support your position: it's not about the extra mouse click (in fact hitting <enter> is enough when that dialog pops up), it's about my machine behaving as I want, not the opposite ;)

JC

---

### Post by amhainen on 2012-05-16
> **JC Cheloven said:**
> If you already came down to dconf-editor and still no luck, I'd say you should look outside ubuntu. Perhaps a setting in your bios regarding the behaviour of the power button (something like "send to the OS a shutdown signal" or so). 
BTW, does it work with other OSes (windows) in that machine?


Perhaps a bit out of context, but under lxde (Lubuntu) there is a straightforward setting for this in the "Energy" section. 
I have it enabled, and otherwise I support your position: it's not about the extra mouse click (in fact hitting <enter> is enough when that dialog pops up), it's about my machine behaving as I want, not the opposite ;)

JC

Yep, both XP and Win7 on this machine (triple booted) work fine with the power button...I'd suspect not a bios-level issue.

And thanks for agreeing about having it the way I want! I've gotten used to the power then [Enter] sequence with 12.04. It's just that 10.04 worked fine and I love how fast Ubuntu powers off.

---

