---
title: "no home folder after installing second ide disk in system with 1 sata hd"
date: 2009-06-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by freacert on 2009-06-22
Hello to all

A few days ago a broke the seal of my new computer with asus m2n68-cm motherboard to install an old maxtor 140 gig ide drive. 
Besides that after every install i have to swith the sata drive as first drive in the bios, ubuntu 8.10 will not find the home directory when the ide hd is connected. If not connected, no problem at all. 
 It fails to read the superblock at my homefolder /dev/sda8
and fsck died with exit status 8

Looking in the forums one option would be to disable fsck on the home folder. I did, changed the 1 into 0 in fstab and no luck either.

output of fstab with no ide drive attached.

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=de691786-9176-4fd0-9024-aac9173ed828 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=65912944-7f8d-4e97-a695-f20973fe679a none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda8 /home ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 0
/dev/sda7 /media/files ntfs-3g defaults,locale=es_ES.UTF-8 0 0


```Any solutions, suggestions??

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-06-22
You could change the /home partition entry to use the partition's UUID instead of the device entry. Then it will always pick up the right partition no matter which order the drives are picked up in. You can find the UUID of the partition with ```
vol_id --uuid /dev/sda8
```

---

### Post by freacert on 2009-06-22
thanks a lot (but don't kill my cat, because he is very good in cathing mice)

took some time for a newby to get the stuff right and the spaces eliminated, but IT WORKS!!   

still looks a little bit like a work-around for me.  Shouldn't there be another easier way which real newbies can handle?  

anyway, this is what my new fstab looks like, and running fine

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=de691786-9176-4fd0-9024-aac9173ed828 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=65912944-7f8d-4e97-a695-f20973fe679a none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda8 home directory :
UUID=78a48b36-200d-4808-9226-2cbae363e63d /home ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 0
/dev/sda7 /media/files ntfs-3g defaults,locale=es_ES.UTF-8 0 0


```

grtz

---

### Post by geirha on 2009-06-22
You should do the same for /dev/sda7. See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingUUID](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingUUID)

---

### Post by freacert on 2009-06-22
OK

but why does fstab mark the swap directory as what i interpret as a big warning?

```
 # Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! : 
```

hope nothing to worry about.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-06-22
> **freacert said:**
> still looks a little bit like a work-around for me.  Shouldn't there be another easier way which real newbies can handle?

You mean like having the system automatically select the partitions by their UUIDs when you install the OS? That's what happens already. Has done for quite some time. Presumably you added the /home partition afterwards yourself, and not using the UUID to identify it was an oversight on your part.

It's not a work-around. This is what UUIDs are for. With the ability to hotplug devices, device node identifiers are not immutable. Except for certain circumstances - specifically setting a UUID to be the same as for another device, or using dd to copy an existing device which is essentially the same thing - the UUID is an unambiguous way to refer to a device in a way that any other method isn't.

---

### Post by freacert on 2009-06-22
> **CatKiller said:**
> Presumably you added the /home partition afterwards yourself, and not using the UUID to identify it was an oversight on your part.



Going back in memory.... You're right, i did something sometime ago with the fstab, when i created a separate home partition.
 Maybe that is also the reason why I couldn't find any solution on the forums to the problem I experienced.

But thanks a lot, without your help would still run without the extra HD.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-06-22
No worries. Glad it's working.

---

