---
title: "12.04 Precise: Unity overriding Compiz bindings?"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Berrex on 2012-04-29
Hey guys. I have expo bound to super+e in CCSM. However, now expo is activated with either super+e or the default super+s, and I can't find any other keybinding settings to disable super+s from activating expo. Does anybody know where to look? Is there a config file with shortcuts I can modify? I have no need for super+s to be bound to anything, and I prefer super+e anyway.

Also, I can't get the scale shortcuts for "all windows" or "window group" to work. I have always had them set to super+ctrl+w and super+shift+w, respectively. However, neither shortcut is functional. Anybody know what's up with that? I can only get super+w (standard window picker for current desktop) to work.

It seems that Unity is overriding Compiz's bindings somewhere, in some cases leading to duplicate bindings, but I can't figure out where or why this is ocurring. Any help would be appreciated, as I find these additional keybindings very useful (especially when used in conjunction with xbindkeys so I can set these bindings to my additional mouse buttons, which I can't do as of right now due to the extra bindings being non-functional). :)

Thanks.

---

### Post by jsavga on 2012-05-01
The Super+W issue is a bug. It includes the scale plugin, expo, show windows in all workspaces, and some flickering issues.

See the bug report at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+source/compiz/+bug/933776](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+source/compiz/+bug/933776)

Be sure to click "Does this bug affect you?" and file a 'me too' vote.

---

### Post by Berrex on 2012-05-01
Good to know, thank you for the information. I'll go ahead and cast my vote on that bug report.

Further assistance won't be necessary for me, however, as I have decided that Unity still isn't ready for me. I was having too many minor, but annoying, issues like the ones I posted about, such as random sluggishness, keys not responding, HUD being randomly activated when using a hotkey which includes the alt key, mouse buttons 8 and up not being recognized, etc. Overall, I see a lot of promise in Unity, and it keeps getting better with time, but it's still underwhelming overall (in my opinion).

Kubuntu 12.04 is pretty awesome, though. :)

---

