---
title: "9.10, raid, fsck, what's going on here?"
date: 2010-01-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shredswithpiks on 2010-01-29
I have an mdadm raid5 array set up as /dev/md0, set up in fstab to automatically mount at boot time. I reboot between windows and ubuntu often (dual boot), so I'm fairly used to the long disk checks every X number of mounts.

I recently loaded up 9.10 and has the disk checking method changed? Today I rebooted and panicked when I found my raid array was missing from my desktop or "Places."

```

$ sudo mount /dev/md0
mount: /dev/md0 already mounted or /media/mountPoint busy

```

A quick google search suggested I just needed to run e2fsck... but that simply returned a "/dev/md0 is busy!" message as well. 

Taking a look at the running processes...

```

$ ps -aef | grep fsck
root       530   505  0 17:30 ?        00:00:00 fsck -a -C10 -t ext3 /dev/md0
root       777   530  1 17:30 ?        00:00:09 fsck.ext3 -a -C10 /dev/md0

```

looks like the system's already fscking my array, which is why it won't mount (killing that process lets me mount things as normal).

Is this just the way 9.10 works now? The fsck every X mounts runs in the background, instead of running explicitly before you're even allowed to log in?

Or is something else going on?

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-01-30
I haven't seen this behavior.  My Karmic makes me wait while it checks disks, same as always.  If this is some new behavior with RAID arrays or something, inquiring minds want to know!  I'm joining you in hoping somebody answers this question.

---

### Post by anothermikemiller on 2010-01-31
My Karmic system fsck's in the background also. I used the upgrade path to 9.10 so I still have the old grub.

So I shutdown last night and the check, apparently, wasn't finished. It started over on my login today.

I don't remember if it's possible, but shouldn't it just mount as read-only for the fsck and remount like normal after it's done?

Is there anyway to see the status for this?

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-01-31
That sounds Really Weird.  fsck running in *background*?  That can't be right.  Has anybody checked launchpad for bugs like this?

---

### Post by shredswithpiks on 2010-02-01
> **anothermikemiller said:**
> My Karmic system fsck's in the background also. I used the upgrade path to 9.10 so I still have the old grub.

So I shutdown last night and the check, apparently, wasn't finished. It started over on my login today.

I don't remember if it's possible, but shouldn't it just mount as read-only for the fsck and remount like normal after it's done?

Is there anyway to see the status for this?

I didn't even think to mount it read only for the duration, but it's definitely not automated. Just to clarify... you're having the same thing happen on an mdadm RAID array?

---

