---
title: "11.04 -- DARK SCREEN -- Need light to see"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by liakosR+ on 2011-04-29
Hi. I 've just upgraded to Ubuntu 11.04 and I had a really hard time doing so.
I have downloaded and burned the ISO, I restarted in order to install  ubuntu and my computer booted from the disk drive, no problem so  far.After I chose my language the purple screen with the option "Install  Ubuntu" appeared and I highlighted the option and pressed "Enter".  THEN, I got a black, empty screen while I was able to listen to my disk  drive reading the disk.Everything was OK except for my screen.I thought  there was a problem with the ISO or the disk itself. But, I 've tried  different CDs and DVDs and I also downloaded the ISO several times.  Unfortunately, I had always the same problem: disk drive working (making  sound), screen-->BLACK-EMPTY. I was about to give up hope when I  decided to turn on my desk lamp because it was getting dark. I was  working on my last attempt and after I, once again, pressed "Enter" on  the "Install Ubuntu" option I got the same dark screen as always but  this time, because of the lamp, I saw that Ubuntu was actually being  installed but the screen did not have any light. I managed to install it  properly using my lamp to see what's going on on my screen but it's  obvious that I can't possibly work that way. SO, how do I make my screen  light come back so I can enjoy my new OS???



Note: My screen is working perfectly with windows so, it cannot be a hardware problem.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-29
Best is to report such a bug in Launchpad:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu)

---

### Post by akal on 2011-04-30
> **liakosR+ said:**
> ... I saw that Ubuntu was actually being  installed but the screen did not have any light. I managed to install it  properly using my lamp to see what's going on on my screen but it's  obvious that I can't possibly work that way. SO, how do I make my screen  light come back so I can enjoy my new OS???

Note: My screen is working perfectly with windows so, it cannot be a hardware problem.

That's exactley my current situation! I am looking forward for an asnwer.
Cheers,

---

### Post by liakosR+ on 2011-04-30
Cheers mate!

---

### Post by liakosR+ on 2011-04-30
Launchpad.net has fortunately proven very helpful to me this is the help I received for anyone who might encounter the same problem as I did, especially my friend "akal".:) First, just make sure you are in a dark room with a desk lamp turned on or something similar in order to see what's happening to your screen. It would also prove very helpful if you select the "Ubuntu Classic" option at the Log-in screen if you are used to GNOME environment and not Unity.After you do that and you are logged in in GNOME environment go to Applications/Accessories/Terminal and type the following command:


sudo setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=01

The only problem that you may still encounter is not being able to adjust the brightness with the on-screen or the on-keyboard buttons, but that would not possibly be a real problem because the screen light would probably be the most proper one.

It worked for me, hopefully it will work for you, too.
I'm marking the thread as solved now.

Peace! ;)

---

### Post by akal on 2011-05-02
Thank you for the solution liakos!

Now, I am in Unity I am afraid, how do I switch back to the GNOME environment?

Thank you again, Akal

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-02
When you log in, you will see a list of environments at the bottom of the screen.

---

### Post by akal on 2011-05-02
> **mörgæs said:**
> When you log in, you will see a list of environments at the bottom of the screen.

Thank you, I'll check this evening. I feel I need a more powerful desk lamp... :)

---

### Post by liakosR+ on 2011-05-02
Guys, I'm afraid this isn't over yet and I shouldn't have marked this as solved just yet. :(The sudo setpci -s 00:02.0 F4.B=01 command stops working when you reboot or suspend the computer (at least for me). If you are experiencing the same problem I've been working on this with a fellow ubuntu user who is trying his best to help me out at Launchpad.net. If you want please check these links:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/773740](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/773740)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/765438](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/765438)

---

