---
title: "13.10&gt;File type plain text document (text/plain) is not supported"
date: 2014-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by YMS_1975 on 2014-01-04
I'm trying to open up a PDF file. I've got Ubuntu 13.10, and I'm given the following error message : 



[B]Unable to open document “file:///home/yousafmshaikh/Desktop/Yousaf Shaikh.pdf”.
File type plain text document (text/plain) is not supported[/B]

Is there anything I can do (perhaps an update) that will rectify this? I did a general Google search, and I came upon another thread on this site, but that was for a Mac user. Didn't really seem to relate to my case.

Can somebody please help me?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-04
Looks like its trying to open in Firefox. Can you right click on the PDF>Open With>choose Document Viewer and set that as the default for these filetypes by ticking the box at the bottom of the window.

---

### Post by YMS_1975 on 2014-01-04
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Looks like its trying to open in Firefox. Can you right click on the PDF>Open With>choose Document Viewer and set that as the default for these filetypes by ticking the box at the bottom of the window.

It's not trying to open it with Firefox. The PDF file is on my desktop, and when I double-click the PDF icon it opens up in Document Viewer. This error message is being generated by Doucment Viewer.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-01-04
Document Viewer cannot open text files. Are you sure that the file YousafShaikh.pdf is actually a PDF file? Use File Manager to select the file and then right click and select Properties. Does the document open in Gedit?

Regards.

---

### Post by vanadium on 2014-01-04
Do other PDF docs also throw this error? If not, then indeed it is likely you are dealing with either a corrupt PDF or another file type with pdf extension.

---

### Post by YMS_1975 on 2014-01-09
> **vanadium said:**
> Do other PDF docs also throw this error? If not, then indeed it is likely you are dealing with either a corrupt PDF or another file type with pdf extension.

You know what? You're right. It was a corrupt PDF file. I created a resume online at "resumesimo.com" and it was supposed to create a PDF version of my resume, and I downloaded it and
it wouldn't open. After your suggestion, I tried another PDF and sure enough it works just fine. Thanks for the suggestion.  :)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-09
Please mark as solved to help others by following the instruction link in my thread. ;)

---

