---
title: "12.04 laptop system performance has really degraded since upgrading to 12.04"
date: 2012-07-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Donalb on 2012-07-06
I'd been on 10.10 for 18 months and upgraded about 6 weeks ago to 12.04 because of the positive reviews and the end of support of 10.10.

I like the new version but it has come at a heavy cost in system resources. I have a 4 year old laptop I cannot afford to upgrade. It has 4 gb ram and integrated intel graphics on a Core Duo 2.26 GHz Processor.

Things seem to have gotten much worse in fact in the last week for no reason I can see ( I was away the previous week). Chrome especially take a long time to simply call the search/address bar from the keyboard or to open new tabs (of which I had to reduce the number also). But all apps, changing to other active apps, selecting open windows, etc all seem to take 10 secs up to 30 secs (I've timed it, not guessed it),the cumulative lag is huge. I was using a dark theme which crashed back to Ubuntu 2d a few days ago but there's no improvement. Calling the HUD or Dash are very slow especially when I compare to how quickly GnomeDo used to respond.

My typical workflow is have Write open with a single doc, Chrome with 4 or 5 tabs, and Nautilus, and I'll open intermittant apps on top of that such as GIMP, Shotwell, Deluge, which 10.10 could handle with no difficulty.

Really really disappointed. Any ideas? Really appreciate any help or suggestions.

---

### Post by eric-yorba on 2012-07-06
Have you tried opening up System Monitor?  Could be some buggy background service is sucking up all your CPU power, that would be a good place to start.

---

### Post by ronnysingh on 2012-07-06
> **Donalb said:**
> I'd been on 10.10 for 18 months and upgraded about 6 weeks ago to 12.04 because of the positive reviews and the end of support of 10.10.

I like the new version but it has come at a heavy cost in system resources. I have a 4 year old laptop I cannot afford to upgrade. It has 4 gb ram and integrated intel graphics on a Core Duo 2.26 GHz Processor.

Things seem to have gotten much worse in fact in the last week for no reason I can see ( I was away the previous week). Chrome especially take a long time to simply call the search/address bar from the keyboard or to open new tabs (of which I had to reduce the number also). But all apps, changing to other active apps, selecting open windows, etc all seem to take 10 secs up to 30 secs (I've timed it, not guessed it),the cumulative lag is huge. I was using a dark theme which crashed back to Ubuntu 2d a few days ago but there's no improvement. Calling the HUD or Dash are very slow especially when I compare to how quickly GnomeDo used to respond.

My typical workflow is have Write open with a single doc, Chrome with 4 or 5 tabs, and Nautilus, and I'll open intermittant apps on top of that such as GIMP, Shotwell, Deluge, which 10.10 could handle with no difficulty.

Really really disappointed. Any ideas? Really appreciate any help or suggestions.

My usual activity : OpenOffice, Firefox/Chrome, A file opened in document viewer
                                   OR totem movie player running while downloading a file via firefox

My laptop : Same 4 years old. 1.5 GB RAM with Pentium dual core processor

I upgraded from 11.10 and 12.04 is working very well for me but the story was almost as you before I changed my hard disk.

I guess the problem should be related with :

1. A crowded hard disk. Less free space on the disk affects speed of the system. I think the storage space provided by Windows Live skydrive and Google drive should be used even though it is not much. Some important files which are not frequently accessed can be stored with Ubuntu one.

2. Sometimes installing too many add-ons slows the performance of the browser.

3. We should also not keep those applications which we don't use.

 I think you took a huge leap as 12.04 is lot ahead of 10.10 but still things should be fine for you. The problem should be related unwanted apps, add-ons and crowded HDD. Aside from that, clearing cache and cookies of web browser helps to increase speed.

---

### Post by ubnewbie2 on 2012-07-06
or just open a terminal and run top 

```
sudo top
```

For encouragement, I will tell you I am running it on a small netbook ...

2GB RAM
Intel® Atom™ CPU N270 @ 1.60GHz × 2
Intel® 945GME x86/MMX/SSE2 

Performance is fine except for a couple of slow apps - most particularly Ubuntu Software Center (use Synaptic instead), and also Nautilus startup time can be slow, depending of filesystems attached etc I think (I installed and prefer Krusader to manage files).

Other than that - it's very good, and an improvement on Windows 7, which is what the netbook came with.

---

