---
title: "ntfs-3g not workin properly"
date: 2007-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kadafi69 on 2007-06-16
ok, had to do a fresh install of xubuntu this morning, however when i install the ntfs-3g package using automatix, when i reboot my ntfs drive disappears and i have to un-install the module and reboot. any ideas?

---

### Post by boralyl on 2007-06-16
Which module are you referring to that you have to uninstall then reboot?  And why are you rebooting, does the ntfs drive show after a reboot?  I would imagine that you want the ntfs drive to be mounted automatically when you boot?  Sorry for all of the questions, but it may help me, help you more efficently.

---

### Post by kadafi69 on 2007-06-16
well i install the ntfs-3g through automatix, reboot to make the drive mount, but its not there, so i uninstall the ntfs-3g through automatix, reboot and the drive mounts as normal. i never had this problem with my previous installation.

---

### Post by boralyl on 2007-06-16
So after uninstalling ntfs-3g, the drive mounts but isn't writable?
What does your /etc/fstab file look like?

---

### Post by kadafi69 on 2007-06-16
no, it disappears, its not there!

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=b30388ba-6b72-446d-9d0e-2666f469d61b / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=8168feef-bc28-4b9c-b4f7-a3a044d41b12 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-16
What is the result of:

```

sudo fdisk -l


```

-merlin

---

### Post by kadafi69 on 2007-06-16
.> fdisk: invalid option -- 1

Usage: fdisk [-b SSZ] [-u] DISK     Change partition table
       fdisk -l [-b SSZ] [-u] DISK  List partition table(s)
       fdisk -s PARTITION           Give partition size(s) in blocks
       fdisk -v                     Give fdisk version
Here DISK is something like /dev/hdb or /dev/sda
and PARTITION is something like /dev/hda7
-u: give Start and End in sector (instead of cylinder) units
-b 2048: (for certain MO disks) use 2048-byte sectors


---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-16
the l is a lowercase L, not a number 1.

-merlin

---

### Post by kadafi69 on 2007-06-16
pfft my bad lol

> 
Disk /dev/sda: 37.0 GB, 37019566080 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4500 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        4310    34620043+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2            4311        4500     1526175    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            4311        4500     1526143+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1       19457   156288321    7  HPFS/NTFS


---

### Post by boralyl on 2007-06-16
After re-installing ntfs-3g adding this line to your /etc/fstab file should work:
```
/dev/sdb1 /media/Drive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
```
Come up with a name for your drive, then create the folder in /media/, you will have to use sudo to do this.  Then substitute the name of the folder with the word Drive above.  For example I only store music on my external ntfs drive, so I made a folder in /media/ called Albums, my line in fstab looks like:
```
/dev/sdb1 /media/Albums ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
```

You will also need to use sudo to edit the /etc/fstab file.  

After that run:
```
sudo mount -a
```

This will mount everything in your fstab file.

---

### Post by kadafi69 on 2007-06-16
ok, did that, used the name im used to it having which would be sdb1

tried to mount it and got this

> $LogFile indicates unclean shutdown (0, 0)
Failed to mount '/dev/sdb1': Operation not supported
Mount is denied because NTFS logfile is unclean. Choose one action:
   Boot Windows and shutdown it cleanly, or if you have a removable
   device then click the 'Safely Remove Hardware' icon in the Windows
   taskbar notification area before disconnecting it.
Or
   Run ntfsfix version 1.13.1 on Linux unless you have Vista.
Or
   Mount the NTFS volume with the 'ro' option in read-only mode.


---

### Post by boralyl on 2007-06-17
I had this happen to me, and what I did, was take my usb external hard drive over to my windows machine, hooked it up, then used the "safley remove" option.  After that it worked.  Hopefully this will do the same for you.

---

