---
title: "2.6.18 kernel in the edgy cd installation"
date: 2006-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by telovoyagarcar on 2006-11-20
Ok...
im still doing research so i can install edgy in my machine...
I found that Kernel 2.6.18 has a lot of improvements for SATA, and i think that could help me to finally install ubuntu in my machine.
so my noob question is..

Is it possible to download kernel 2.6.18 and replace the 2.6.17 that comes with edgy?..
i mean..
from Windows...
i could just change files inside the ISO and then burn it to a cd ... may be then i get lucky and it works.

Is this possible or just a non sense idea?

thanks

---

### Post by qamelian on 2006-11-20
Not quite as simple as that. Unless someone else has already built it into an Ubuntu-ready package with appropriate depencies etc., you'd need to download the 2.6.18 source code and compile it yourself.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2006-11-22
I am running a self-compiled 2.6.18.3 kernel right now on my G5 iMac.  While I haven't run into any problems, you are still taking a chance running a vanilla kernel since they don't include the customized Ubuntu patches.  This might help:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=299360](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=299360)

As to your sata install problem, drop by the PPC forum and maybe we can help you out.

---

### Post by telovoyagarcar on 2006-11-23
Thanks for the help!!
I managed to finally continue the installation... so here is what happened for the people with the same problem:

delete the "splash" option from the boot option and add "all-generic-ide" 
then you will still getting errors.. mine was something like "error on hda block sector xxx blah blag blah"
but .... WAIT, WAIT then WAIT and just in case WAIT a little more time.. (that was like half an hour or something) and the error message will get bored (time out), and you will get to a command prompt where from there... you can continue the installation.
That was because x.org failed to detect my video card.. so may be if you are lucky and dont have this problem, the installation will just continue automatically...

Thanks again and good luck!!!

---

