---
title: ".desktop file location in 16.04"
date: 2017-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by meetdilip on 2017-07-04
I would like to find the .desktop file for Peek and change it's icon name. So that, I can use a custom icon from my icon theme. Where can I find .desktop file for a software ? Thanks.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-07-04
By default, the .desktop files should be in */usr/share/applications*.

Try *grep -i peek /usr/share/applications/*.desktop*

If you want, you could copy them over to *~/.local/share/applications* and edit them there without needing *sudo*.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2017-07-04
> **meetdilip said:**
> I would like to find the .desktop file for Peek and change it's icon name. So that, **I can use a custom icon from my icon theme**. Where can I find .desktop file for a software ? Thanks.

As vasa1 says, you can change the launcher. Another option would be to simply have an appropriately named icon in the theme that you're using. It doesn't even have to be an actual icon; a link to a different icon works fine too. That way the launcher will always use the icon provided by your theme, even when you change themes. That's how icon themes are supposed to work.

You might need to run ```
update-icon-caches /path/to/theme
``` after you've made your changes to have them propagate.

---

### Post by meetdilip on 2017-07-04
Thanks. Looks like it worked :)

> **vasa1 said:**
> 

If you want, you could copy them over to *~/.local/share/applications* and edit them there without needing *sudo*.

Just for editing, or, I can leave a copy of .desktop file there ?  And, it will override the content of usr/share/applications ?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-07-04
> **meetdilip said:**
> Thanks. Looks like it worked :)



Just for editing, or, I can leave a copy of .desktop file there ?  And, it will override the content of usr/share/applications ?

 Leave the copy in ~/.local/share/applications. It will override the copy in /usr/share/applications If you just edit it your customization will be gone when it updates.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-07-04
Just to clarify, the modifications you make to the .desktop file in *~/.local/share/applications* will persist until *you* change them. Any changes you make to the .desktop file in */usr/share/applications* will be automatically lost when the application updates.

---

### Post by meetdilip on 2017-07-05
Thank you guys. :)

---

