---
title: "10.04 crashes when media player opens in firefox"
date: 2010-05-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rdh61 on 2010-05-25
Hi,

Using an online language course, there are links to hear the words and phrases pronounced. If I click these links, a media player opens in the browser (firefox), but after a few seconds Ubuntu crashes. Always.

Can anybody help with this?

Thanks.

---

### Post by rdh61 on 2010-05-25
More info:-

1) If I right click on these links and click "properties", I get

pa.mp3
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
MP3 Format Sound

2) When I click the links, the application that opens in the browser, tries to play them, then crashes the OS is "Totem".

---

### Post by rg_stephens on 2010-05-25
Totem is the defualt media player, and it sounds like it's not getting along with Firefox very well. As a workaround, I might suggest installing VLC media player, and then open the file with VLC.

---

### Post by rdh61 on 2010-05-25
Thanks. VLC didn't reproduce the sounds properly (crackly and broken up), so I have tried MPlayer which works. Have uninstalled Totem.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-25
install paprefs and gnome-alsamixer (tweak it)

sudo dpkg-reconfigure pulseaudio

---

### Post by rdh61 on 2010-05-25
Thanks for the suggestion. What would this help with? Totem? VLC?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-25
is medibuntu repo installed ?

you have to look at logs to find what happen (system admin log viewer) and .xsession-errors in your /home (unhide it with menu)

pulseaudio deal with sound with all the gui tools (vlc, totem, audacious, ...)

---

