---
title: "10.4 Firefox Highlighing bug"
date: 2010-07-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by andyzammy on 2010-07-15
Hi,

I'm having problems with writing text. It usually happens in the google search bar next to the address bar in firefox. The text sometimes automatically highlights itself at what appears to be random intervals, so i usually end up with the last part of a word (which is usually over-writing the first half, which was highlighted).

This is extremely annoying as i have no clue what i could have done to cause this.

Any help will be appreciated.
zammy

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-07-15
Have you experienced any other problems in Firefox or other applications? If you have, then your keyboard might be malfunctioning. Try unplugging it, waiting a couple of seconds, then plugging it back in.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-07-15
Right-click on the icon next to the search bar and untick the option "Show Suggestions".

---

### Post by andyzammy on 2010-07-15
> **WorMzy said:**
> Have you experienced any other problems in Firefox or other applications? If you have, then your keyboard might be malfunctioning. Try unplugging it, waiting a couple of seconds, then plugging it back in.
Not that i'm aware of. This "bug" has happened in the google search bar, and in login boxes on forums. I forgot to mention i'm using a laptop, so keyboard error is out of the question.

> **lovinglinux said:**
> Right-click on the icon next to the search bar and untick the option "Show Suggestions".

I'm not sure what good that will do. No suggestions show up when this happens (sometimes there can only be a single letter typed in (come to think of it only happened with 'a' so far) and it auto-highlights). Besides, the text doesn't auto highlight when suggestions are given? I'll give it a whirl, but i don't see what it will do..

Thanks for the replies so far!

---

### Post by angle333 on 2010-07-15
*I will say — in general — that I'm not a big fan of icons for operations that aren't immediately obvious. E.g. Firebug's switch from an "Inspect" text labeled button to their current icon made the UI more confusing. Even Microsoft are moving away from icon-based UIs with their latest efforts (Windows 7, Office 2010, Win7 Mobile). Very few icons are universal, and text usually makes the UI clearer — especially in niche applications.* 
This is making me reconsider the toolpalette above. It might make more sense to drop a toolbar onto the Tree panel and used text-buttons. The extra space in the toolbar would also act as a drag-target en lieu of a title bar.

---

### Post by mindstorm23 on 2010-07-27
I have been having the same problem. When in Firefox on 10.04 (at least, I've only noticed it in Firefox), when I'm entering text into a text field, sometimes I will type one or two letters, and Firefox will highlight over everything I just typed so that the next letter I type overwrites it. If I click off the text field and click back on, the problem goes away. I've only noticed this in single-line text fields, not large text boxes.

I haven't tested it thoroughly, but I think it happens when I'm on one form field and tab into a text field and start typing. I also have a hunch that the bug only happens on fields where Firefox remembers text that I have typed into that box previously and is trying to suggest that text via Firefox's built-in auto-suggest feature.

However, I can confirm that this has happened to me on multiple computers that have Ubuntu 10.04, so I know it's not a keyboard problem.

---

### Post by jsgarvin on 2010-12-30
I'm having the exact same problem, on two separate computers (one laptop, one desktop), both running 10.04.  It's enormously annoying.

I just had to work my way through a form where it was happened on over half the fields on that form.  My workaround is to temporarily prefix the text I'm trying to type with a non-alphanumeric character (usually a /).  Most of the time (but not always) that stops the highlighting long enough to get all my text entered.

I'm suspecting it's a plugin that's causing it, but it's so intermittent (sometimes won't happen for weeks) and impossible to reproduce that I can't narrow down which plugin might be the culprit.

Here's my list of plugins.  Maybe other's having the same problem can post their list and we can start to narrow it down.

Adblock Plus
CountdownClock
DownloadHelper
Echofon
Firebug
Gmail Manager
LastPass
NoScript
Ubuntu Firefox Modifications
Web Developer
Xmarks

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-12-30
Well, to help you on your way, I use the following:

Adblock Plus (1.2.2)
NoScript (2.0.8.1)
Xmarks (3.9.2)

So I doubt it's any of those.

The best idea would be to disable all add-ons when you next experience the problem, and then re-enable them one-by-one until the behaviour reappears (assuming it doesn't appear when they're all disabled).

You could also check the error console (Ctrl+Shift+J), when an add-on behaves incorrectly, it sometimes reports an error message here.

---

### Post by jsgarvin on 2010-12-30
Ok, I went and made a liar out of myself.  Based on some ideas I gathered in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1261872"), I can now reproduce the problem with almost perfect consistency.

Addons are not the issue. I can reproduce it with all addons disabled and after multiple reboots.

Steps to reproduce are as follows.

1. Open a tab on [http://start.ubuntu.com/10.04/Google/](http://start.ubuntu.com/10.04/Google/)   (does not actually matter what page you're on as long as there's a form with a text field that, by the time you reach step 3, it's offering suggestions based on what you type)

2. Search for "flibberty".  (does not actually matter what search term you use, as long as you use the same one throughout this exercise.)

3. Go back to the search page. Begin to type "fl" and confirm that Firefox offers "flibberty" as a suggestion.

4. Set your screen saver timeout to 1 minute. Note that manually locking your screen is insufficient. You must actually wait for the screen saver to come on after the timeout.

5. After screen saver has activated, wiggle your mouse to turn it off. Enter your password if you have your screen saver set to lock the screen. This setting does not appear relevant to the issue at hand.

6. Type "fl" into the search field.

6a. If you get the "flibberty" suggestion, then the reproduction failed. I've had this happen a couple times.  Just wait for screen saver to kick in again and go back to step 5.

6b. If you don't get a suggestion, but the "fl" characters don't highlight, then wait a few seconds, delete the characters and enter them again. Tabbing out of, and back into the field might also work.

6c. If the "fl" characters highlight, and typing another character overwrites your "fl", then congratulations, you've successfully reproduced the bug. 

6d. Note that if you type anything for which there are no suggestions, then the field behaves normally and you can type all you want without the highlight/overwrite issue.

7. Minimize and unminimize Firefox to return to normal behavior.  Rinse, lather, repeat.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-12-31
I can't reproduce it, when I type in the textbox, nothing gets highlighted, either before or after the screensaver.

However, I use xscreensaver, and not gnome-screensaver, so that may be why.

---

### Post by raequin on 2011-01-10
Wow, a solution to this would be nice, as my wife and I are both experiencing the problem.  She is using 10.10.  I admire your step-by-step instructions for reproducing the bug.

---

### Post by surl on 2011-01-24
Hi,

I'm having the same problem (Laptop, 10.04) and have noticed that it only happens when I enter a field by pressing TAB, but not when clicking it.

I doubt this will help a lot to find a solution but still I hope there will be one soon becaus this drives me nuts.

cheers
surl

---

### Post by phosphide on 2011-02-04
I am reproducing the same error in xubuntu 10.10.

---

### Post by ryo1127 on 2011-03-03
So no one has a fix? :S

This is been annoying people since (if I'm not mistaken) 2009. :confused:

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-03-03
Well, since I couldn't reproduce the bug, perhaps switching to xscreensaver would work for you?

---

