---
title: "22.10 installed on old iMac - no video playback"
date: 2022-12-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by furtivehippo on 2022-12-07
Apologies if I have posted this in the wrong place, there didn't seem anywhere more appropriate...

I have an old (2012?) iMac on my network that is just used for watching video streamed from my satellite TV box/Twitch etc. It's always been a bit slow and unreliable, so when I read that it was possible to run Ubuntu on these things I went ahead and installed 22.10 on it. This seems to work fine, in every possible aspect except - yep - video playback! The video player Ubuntu ships with crashes when asked to open a video, TBH I usually install VLC straight off; when I did this I was getting audio but just a black screen. If you go to YouTube it can play video in a browser OK.

I've been using Ubuntu since 2008 and never had a fundamental problem like this, so I have no idea how to troubleshoot it.. any ideas please?

Thanks!

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2022-12-07
There is something called Ubuntu Restricted Extras. When we install and tick the box "install non-free software" we get some proprietary audio and video codecs.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats)

This package will also install some Microsoft True Type Fonts. In install will pause until we scroll down the page an tick a box to accept or reject the Microsoft End User License Agreement. After that the install will proceed again.

Your problem may be caused by not having the required codecs or libraries installed.

Regards

---

### Post by furtivehippo on 2022-12-07
I'm pretty sure I ticked the box during installation, but I will go and check, thanks!

---

### Post by furtivehippo on 2022-12-07
So when I opened Synaptic to check, ubuntu-restricted-addons was installed, but not ubuntu-restricted-extras. I installed that, rebooted the machine and tried again but I still have the same problem unfortunately.

---

### Post by furtivehippo on 2022-12-08
This is now fixed:

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/44425/black-screen-when-playing-a-movie-in-vlc-player-just-the-sound-is-enabled](https://askubuntu.com/questions/44425/black-screen-when-playing-a-movie-in-vlc-player-just-the-sound-is-enabled)

---

