---
title: "14.04.3 Unity, FF, Flash update"
date: 2016-01-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-01-09
in viewing a page it asked for a flash update
I chose "apt" for Ubuntu and told it to download.
It said it couldn't find anything to work with apt. Software center either.
I googled lots but stuck there. 
Went to System Settings / Software and Updates /other software tab and checked canonical partners, and it worked.

did I do right?

Thanks

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-01-09
Open Software Centre> Search for and install flashplugin-installer.

You could also search for and install ubuntu-restricted-extras instead and that will drag in flash and a whole lot of other third-party stuff. Not much uses flash nowadays - it's heading to html5 - and it is no longer upgraded on Ubuntu (stopped at 11.2 from memory). It gets security updates and that's it, so you still might get complaints from some sites.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-01-09
Once you check "Cannonical Partners", you update the software sources, and then install the flash package "Cannonical Partners" offers which is **adobe-flashplugin**. That package will keep your flash plugin updated regardless of which browser you use.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-01-09
Thanks to both of you!

I use flash a lot - it was CNN caling for it this time

I installed flashplugin-installer but don't see how to execute it.

But it sounds like leaving Canonical checked is the way for me to go...

THANKS!!!

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-01-09
These are two different ways of getting flash, and both work. But the package they install are different. **adobe-flashplugin** installs plugins used by both Firefox and Chromium, **flashplugin-installer** only installs a version for Firefox.

You don't execute anything itself, installing the package downloads and installs the plugin also. Either package keeps the plugins it installed up-to-date.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-01-09
In Ubuntu Software center when I try those 2 different names I get the same thing.

In DASH i get nothing for adobe or flash

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-01-09
In the Ubuntu Software Center, it is called "Adobe Flash Player plugin". I needed to put "adobe-flashplugin" in the search box. Tricky.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-01-09
flashplugin-installer "Downloads and Installs the Adobe Flash Player plugin." That's it. Now we can stop going in circles. :)

As mentioned, ubuntu-restricted-extras should drag it in, too. Here's the full blurb for flashplugin-installer from Synaptic:

> Downloads and Installs the Adobe Flash Player plugin. The Adobe Flash
Player plugin supports playing of media and other dynamic content online.

The Adobe Flash Player plugin will work with a range of web-browsers including, limited to:
 * Firefox
 * Chromium
 * SeaMonkey
 * Iceweasel
 * Iceape
 * Galeon
 * Epiphany
 * Konqueror

WARNING: Installing this Ubuntu package causes the Adobe Flash Player
plugin to be downloaded from the Adobe web site. The distribution license
of the Adobe Flash Player plugin is available at [www.adobe.com](www.adobe.com). Installing
this Ubuntu package implies that you have accepted the terms of that
license.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-01-09
Yep! Thanks!

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-01-09
If you have Chromium instead of, or in addition to Firefox, and want automatic updates, flashplugin-installer won't do it.

**flashplugin-installer** installs only one plugin - for Firefox.
**adobe-flashplugin** installs both the Firefox and Chromium versions. For Chromium users, it's the correct choice.

Package "title" installed with "flashplugin-installer" is "Adobe Flash Plugin" 
Package "title" installed with "adobe-flashplugin" is "Adobe Flash Player Plugin"

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-01-09
Oh - okay - gotcha!  
Chromium is not installed
"adobe-flashplugin" is "Adobe Flash Player Plugin"is not installed.
"flashplugin-installer is "Adobe Flash Plugin" IS installed
So I think I'm okay...
Thanks!

---

