---
title: "X.org ATI Radeon Dual Head problems - Xinerama"
date: 2005-03-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Daikoku on 2005-03-27
Hi,

I just today started digging into the linux world again, switching over from Windows. However, I have some serious issues getting my ATI Radeon 8500 with 2 LCD monitors attached running in Xinerama mode. 
It works fine if use default ati drivers in xorg.conf and not fglrx, however if I use the latter, I see a mouse pointer and each screen and both screens "seem" to have the correct size but every monitor shows only half of the screen and it doesn't "stretch" from one monitor to the other.

I'm using xorg-driver-fglrx 6.8.0-8.8.25

Here's my config:

```
## /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"de"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"nodeadkeys"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"device0"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	Screen		0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"device1"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	Screen		1
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"monitor0"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"screen0"
	Device		"device0"
	Monitor		"monitor0"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Virtual 1280 1024
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection	

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Multihead Layout"
	Screen		"screen0" 0 0
	Screen		"screen1" RightOf "screen0"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Option		"Xinerama"	"on"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
```

---

### Post by lup0 on 2005-04-04
[QUOTE=Daikoku]Hi,
I just today started digging into the linux world again, switching over from Windows. However, I have some serious issues getting my ATI Radeon 8500 with 2 LCD monitors attached running in Xinerama mode. 
It works fine if use default ati drivers in xorg.conf and not fglrx, however if I use the latter, I see a mouse pointer and each screen and both screens "seem" to have the correct size but every monitor shows only half of the screen and it doesn't "stretch" from one monitor to the other.
I'm using xorg-driver-fglrx 6.8.0-8.8.25
[/QUOTE]

I have the same problem also. My video card is ATI Radeon 9800Pro and I'm using two LCD monitors. At the moment I'm running two separate desktops by disabling the Xinerama extensions. However it sucks because I'm not able to move windows between the screens and the keyboard is often active on the wrong screen. I'm also using the same fglrx driver. The fix seems to be according to this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=21049&highlight=ati+dual+screen](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=21049&highlight=ati+dual+screen) 
to upgrade to ATI 8.10.19 drivers. These aren't available in ubuntu. How can I install this driver?

---

### Post by sir-gold on 2005-05-21
The fglrx driver, even the newest one, does not support Xinerama, ati created thier own hack for dual monitors that doesn't work very well (windows won't snap to the edges of the monitor, maximized windows span both monitors)

use this instead (modify as needed):

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL M782"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Radeon 9600 XT MergedFB"
	Driver		"radeon"
	VendorName	"ATI"
	BoardName	"ATI Radeon 9600 XT"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Option		"MergedFB"		"True"
	Option		"CRT2HSync"		"31.5 - 60.0"
	Option		"CRT2VRefresh"		"60-85"
	Option		"MonitorLayout"		"LCD,CRT" #use LCD,CRT even if you have 2 CRTs
	Option		"OverlayOnCRTC2"	"true"
	Option		"MetaModes"		"1024x768-1024x768"
	Option		"CRT2Position"		"RightOf"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "MergedFB Screen"
        Device          "Radeon 9600 XT MergedFB"
        Monitor         "DELL M782"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768"
		Virtual		2048 768
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier 	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"MergedFB Screen"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
EndSection

This will enable mergedFB, which gives you full 2D acceleration (but no 3D acceleration at all) on both monitors with pseudo-xinerama support (windows, atleast with KDE, will behave properly, maximizing to one monitor, snapping to monitor edges, etc)

DO NOT use the Xinerama serverflag with mergedFB, or you will just get clone mode again

To install the newest fglrx drivers use the instuctions from this page:
[http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-installer.html](http://xoomer.virgilio.it/flavio.stanchina/debian/fglrx-installer.html)
I had to compile the fglrx kernel module, what a pain, if you don't need 3D don't bother

---

### Post by ddoxey on 2006-10-22
I have struggled quite a bit trying to get my dual head setup to work correctly.

I am using two Dell P991 monitors and a Radeon X550 PCIE card.

sir-gold's advice worked for me. I was hesitant to enter the LCD,CRT monitor layout. However, doing that and entering the MetaMode and CRT2Position options seemed to get my setup working right once and for all.



Thanks.

---

### Post by Madnashua on 2006-11-11
I've managed to get Xinerama working with the fglrx 8.30.3 driver - using [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide)

then setup xinerama according to:[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XineramaHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XineramaHowTo)

I have xinerama working but no gl - fglrxinfo reports mesa still, without xinerama fglrxinfo reports ati as the gl provider.

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by IsenMike on 2007-01-05
I'm having this issue as well.  I can get Xinerama to work, or have OpenGL support, but not both at the same time, it seems.  Is there really still no work around for this?  Not being able to move windows from one screen to another seems to negate most of the benefit from even having the two screens in the first place.  But I don't want to go without hardware acceleration either. ](*,) 

Has any workaround been found since this thread was last active?

---

### Post by jkeyes0 on 2007-02-24
> **IsenMike said:**
> I'm having this issue as well.  I can get Xinerama to work, or have OpenGL support, but not both at the same time, it seems.  Is there really still no work around for this?  Not being able to move windows from one screen to another seems to negate most of the benefit from even having the two screens in the first place.  But I don't want to go without hardware acceleration either. ](*,) 

Has any workaround been found since this thread was last active?

Basically what I did was I set up the Xinerama as everyone else has described, and ended up with the Mesa driver showing up, then I commented out the one line in the ServerLayout section that says "Xinerama". Doing it this way, you have two independent screens, both 3d accelerated, but you can't move windows from one to the other. I just put shortcuts on the second screen (it's got the full menu set and everything, just like a second X session almost, but I can move the mouse between them), and I use it just like I normally would, but without moving windows between them.

---

### Post by Deevay on 2007-02-25
> **jkeyes0 said:**
> Basically what I did was I set up the Xinerama as everyone else has described, and ended up with the Mesa driver showing up, then I commented out the one line in the ServerLayout section that says "Xinerama". Doing it this way, you have two independent screens, both 3d accelerated, but you can't move windows from one to the other. I just put shortcuts on the second screen (it's got the full menu set and everything, just like a second X session almost, but I can move the mouse between them), and I use it just like I normally would, but without moving windows between them.

I have the same situation that you have as well. What I'm wondering about is, is it possible to use my right screen as if it were the right workspace, and the left screen as left workspace??

---

### Post by jkeyes0 on 2007-02-25
> **Deevay said:**
> I have the same situation that you have as well. What I'm wondering about is, is it possible to use my right screen as if it were the right workspace, and the left screen as left workspace??

I haven't found a way to do so yet. If anyone does find a way, I'd love to know.

---

### Post by munch_e_cracker on 2007-03-05
I seem to recall reading something a while ago about why you can't do this.  It has to do with DRI or Direct Rendering Infrastructure.  The way in which this is programmed inherently prevents this from being possible.  It might be fixed in the future.

---

