---
title: "12.04 LTS Screen"
date: 2012-08-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wagb278 on 2012-08-03
Sorry if this is a dumb question, but ...

I am running 10.04 LTS.  Looking at images of the screen shown for 12.04 LTS there is always a bunch of icons at the left edge.  I don't know what those icons are but I definitely don't wont them. 

Is there a configuration setting to not show those icons in 12.04?

Thanks,
Jim

---

### Post by Hedgehog9597 on 2012-08-03
I assume that you are talking about the vertical row of icons on the left side of the screen, known as the launcher.

You actually really do want the launcher, as it allows you to do things such as:
1. Use the Dash
2. Open the file browser
3. Open shortcuts to applications

And much more.  However, you can make it hide, so that it isn't cluttering up the screen.  It will reappear when you bring your mouse to the left side of the screen and jiggle it a little.  Instructions:

1. Open System Settings (the gear and wrench icon on the launcher)
2. Click on "Appearance"
3. Click on the "Behavior" tab
4. Slide the slider that says "off" to the right, so that it reads "on"
5. Choose the reveal location, and adjust the reveal sensitivity if you wish.

Hope that I answered your question!

---

### Post by Dylan1473 on 2012-08-03
What version are you upgrading from? If you're talking about what I think you're talking about that feature has definitely been there since at least 11.10. This is a major part of the Unity desktop environment, you can try downloading a different desktop environment/window manager or if you're making a clean Ubuntu install rather than upgrading you can download an Ubuntu flavour that uses a different desktop environment such as Kubuntu (which uses _[KDE]("http://www.kde.org/")_), Xubuntu (uses _[XFCE]("http://www.xfce.org/")_) or one of many others. You can also download either of those desktop environments from an existing install, and even have multiple environments installed to choose from when you log in if you so wish.

Alternatively, if you just want to keep Gnome Classic there's a guide _[here]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/gnome-classic-in-ubuntu-12-04-its-like-nothing-ever-changed")_.

---

### Post by wagb278 on 2012-08-03
Thanks Dylan and Hedgehog.

I think you are both correct that what I am referring to is that Unity thing.  I like what I am used to - the standard Gnone with menus, task-bar, and a clean desktop.  I run two computers with Linux one has a 17" screen and the other a 15" - neither are wide screen monitors. So screen real estate is a premium to me. 

I only use LTS releases; 08.04 LTS, 10.04 LTS. I want to use the computer not upgrade and re-configure it every six months. My method to upgrade is always to download and cut a Live-CD and do a fresh install from that.
 
Before I consider updating to a new LTS version of Ubuntu I wanted to make sure that I can still have the GUI I like. 

Thanks for the link to how I can use what I want, that is reassuring.

---

