---
title: "Software RAID Issue"
date: 2013-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dgray_from_dc on 2013-12-03
Using MythBuntu as a stating point, I've built a multi-Terabyte media server that contains a 4-disk software RAID 5 array for data storage and an SSD for the OS.

Not too long ago, I noticed a clicking sound from one of the RAID array's SATA drives.  In response, I bought an additional drive and added it to the array as a spare so that I wouldn't be caught by surprise if it failed before I could figure out which disk was going bad (I had a few drives in the array that were the same make/model and couldn't figure out which one had issues).  I found out about S.M.A.R.T. utilities, installed GSmartControl, and was able to determine the exact part number and serial numer of the  drive that was going bad and giving off errors.

I removed the failing drive and rebooted my server to find that the array didn't bother kicking over to the spare.  Seeing that, I moved the spare drive to the physical location and SATA port of the drive that failed (to make space in my chassis).  Then, using webmin, I manually removed the spare from the array and added it back again.  The array began rebuilding itself, and after about 6 or 7 hours everything was normal.  After a recent kernel update and subsequent reboot, the server dropped out to a ramdisk because the RAID array was reading as degraded.  For some reason, I couldn't get recovery mode to function properly without dropping back about 6 or 7 kernels (different issue for another thread).  Once I was able to get to the recovery mode options, I resumed normal startup, used webmin to look at the array status, and saw that the drive that I just put into use listed as "down".

I checked, and fortunately (for the moment) my data is intact.

From there, I unmounted the array, did a full hardware check on the disk in question (result, no errors).  I wiped the drive, recreated the partition, and re-added it to the array.  Webmin still lists it as "down" and the array as degraded, but doesn't give me details or options.  I've been trying to read the man page for mdadm but am having trouble understanding how to use it from the command line to resolve this issue.  I did manage to figure out how to get a detailed status and this was the result:

```
user@LV-426:~$ sudo mdadm --detail /dev/md0
mdadm: ARRAY line /dev/md0 has no identity information.                          
/dev/md0:                                                                        
        Version : 1.2                                                            
  Creation Time : Sun Jul  7 16:47:07 2013                                       
     Raid Level : raid5                                                          
     Array Size : 5860145664 (5588.67 GiB 6000.79 GB)                            
  Used Dev Size : 1953381888 (1862.89 GiB 2000.26 GB)                            
   Raid Devices : 4                                                              
  Total Devices : 4                                                              
    Persistence : Superblock is persistent

    Update Time : Tue Dec  3 21:47:51 2013
          State : clean, degraded 
 Active Devices : 3
Working Devices : 3
 Failed Devices : 1
  Spare Devices : 0

         Layout : left-symmetric
     Chunk Size : 512K

           Name : LV-426:0  (local to host LV-426)
           UUID : 340b7c47:83f9ba24:c25bc141:c798bd61
         Events : 8991

    Number   Major   Minor   RaidDevice State
       0       0        0        0      removed
       1       8       33        1      active sync   /dev/sdc1
       2       8       49        2      active sync   /dev/sdd1
       4       8       65        3      active sync   /dev/sde1

       5       8       17        -      faulty spare   /dev/sdb1


```

Additionally, this is the single line madm.conf pressumably auto-generated by webmin after I originally used it to add the spare drive:

```
/dev/md/0 metadata=1.2 UUID=340b7c47:83f9ba24:c25bc141:c798bd61 name=LV-426:0
```

From what I see here, it's somehow marked the bad drive as missing, thinks that my former spare disk has a fault, and for some reason, won't use it to rebuild the array clean.  I am confident that this is a good disk with no issues.  How do I tell mdadm to illiminate the entry for the old drive and use /dev/sdb1 listed above as an active device in the array and not mark it as a faulty spare?  I was hoping to do this in mdadm.conf but that information doesn't appear to be stored there.

By the way, the old drive still hasn't failed completely, it's just clicking and generating errors, so I may be able to reinstall and reconnect it if that could possibly help the situation.

Any help would be greatly appreciated!!!  Thanks!!!

---

### Post by dgray_from_dc on 2013-12-15
I swapped the disks around and discovered that I never had a bad drive to begin with.  Instead, I had bad power going to the connector coming from my power supply.  It's interesting to note that my Seagate drive functioned with a bad power connection (albeit with errors) and that the Western Digital I put in its place didn't function at all.  One of the benefits of getting different drives from different vendors when putting together an array.  I am now going to grow my array onto the extra drive once used as a spare.  Two more Terabytes!! :D

---

