---
title: "Nvidia driver problem - what the heck"
date: 2009-02-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lestat_xi on 2009-02-04
So I just installed Ubuntu 8.10 and I activated the Nvidia driver (version 177) after it did it's download process.  It appears to have worked, except:

In the GUI I can't click options in windows such as Close or Open, or select any options.  It automatically starts to drag the window when I click anything.

Firefox works ok as far as the touchpad goes, but I can't see the top window border and it covers up the main bar.  (not in fullscreen mode, I checked)

When I Alt-Tab it works fine for the first tab, but when I tab again the screen starts to flicker.

Here is my system:

Dell D630 Laptop
touchpad (I have the touchpad settings manager and mouse of course)
Nvidia Quadro nvs135m

Help?

I've tried everything.  Here are the contents of xorg.conf after the driver activation and restart of X.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
	Option	    "MinSpeed" "0.5"
	Option	    "MaxSpeed" "0.5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection

(I could not click and drag to highlight, it just drags the window)

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-02-04
For the Firefox problem, press F11 twice and resize the Firefox window, you should be good.

---

### Post by lestat_xi on 2009-02-04
> **Codename said:**
> For the Firefox problem, press F11 twice and resize the Firefox window, you should be good.

cool, I also figured out if I hit ctrl+shift and click, it's normal click, not drag...???

---

