---
title: "Gav's Ubuntu adventures, FYI"
date: 2007-12-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gavla on 2007-12-13
Howdy.
Since this forum is the first thing I search when I need to do something with my Ubuntu, I thought I'd share my experiences, lest they help a helper understand a helpee or help those helpees to help themselves.

I am Gav and this is my story. I begin to tell the tale of my personal decisions for those who want to know what turned this little black windows user around; If you don't care, spin on - I plan to tell y'all later about the tricks I've had to do to set stuff up in it, but not tonight.
(BTW, I am white, but difficult like Daffy)

My old computer was a laptop my parents bought me when I left home. It travelled around most of Australia as part of my friends' band's show, and as you can imagine got quite beat up. Soon after I moved back home to try my hand at university, years later,  it go so bad that it no longer functioned as a laptop, but needed to be kept in one place; nonetheless I decided to keep it for as long as I could stand it - it's never the right time to buy a computer, the way I see it - the longer you wait, the more bang you get for your buck.
When it stopped burning DVDs and it was time to get a new box I didn't want to tempt myself with high gaming power (I have a more than a slight addiction) and I wanted to minimize the amount I exploited my father's purse strings (I'd quit my job to study on his dime in his house), so I did research into how cheap I could get a computer. I turned to researching Linux to get something less bloated and less expensive. How silly would it be to get a $515 computer and chock it full of a bloated $200+ operating system?
But I also found all the polemic against Vista and DRM. Of course, I always knew Microsoft were a wicked corporation, but I hadn't discovered a counter-movement which would offer help and alternatives.
I'm a big lefty - into things like bicycles and organic food and vegan food and fair trade. I decided that If I was a careful consumer in the supermarket, I should take my careful consuming to the wire. Those idealists in the free software movement convinced me. Of course, the first thing I did was put on the non free video drivers; I've put my old computer into real retirement and going totally free on my only system would be a little too hardcore; but I'd love to give it a go, once it becomes a bit more practicable.
Given that It became a moral issue for me , It was easy for me to slug it out establishing myself as an Ubuntu user, even though I've come across some knotty problems - it's the same thing as when you have to look around to find a non-meat meal, the effort you put into riding a bike, or the hassle of researching and paying more to get something that wasn't make by child labor. 
I chose to go with the 64bit version because the example its advocates use of a process it really speeds up is encoding a DVD, which I do often (I'm a big pirate and I like to steal. Please let's not go into it) and also for the idealism thing - going to the better system earlier and wearing the inconveniences for the sake of stimulating development (not exactly child labor, but nonetheless, matching my disposition)
A month later I'm still going.
I wish I'd written this earlier, and shared with you some of the things I've already set up, so that I can help the promotion of my new cause. My typing finger is sore now, but I like to write so I'll come back tomorrow and talk about consoles and packages and kernels and baubles, whether you read it or not.

---

### Post by Gavla on 2007-12-15
Woe to the conquered.
There's a certain Mod for Rome:Total War called Europa Barbarorum.
[http://www.europabarbarorum.com](http://www.europabarbarorum.com) which I'm dying to play. It functioned on my old computer extraordinarily slowly and crashed right about when I started getting really emotionally invested in it. I mentioned that I expected my Ubuntu use to help police my gaming addiction; but still I am a gamer of all sorts, pen and paper, board, computer, parlor, drama; I want to reduce the amount of time I get sucked into obsessive compulsive click-fests or generally bad games, If I spend my time on truly innovate and quality gaming, that's okay. Ideally, I'd like to spend more time playing board games and such face to face with real honest to goodness human beings, but Europa Barbarorum is world class - I'm studying history, and this game is made by historians who wanted the non-Greco-Roman factions to be dignified with their cultural heritage, rather than be slavering barbarian hordes. Through exhaustive research into their military, social, language, and diplomatic situations, they've made a patch which presents the Hellenistic world from so many different perspectives, that the end effect is really rather profound and beautiful; defying the big bad of history by presenting the experience of the non-victors.
So I decided to work hard myself and try and play it on this machine. When I first played the patch I read history books while I was waiting for the big load times in the game, and, since my bandwidth was throttled for the first evening of this adventure, I fetched Caesar's account of the civil war. 
So I did wine. I didn't expect it to work, but I got it installed, patched and cracked in all the different versions. It seems the Total War games are a particular onion in the ointment of Linux gamers, and there was a lot of conflicting information on the web out there, but somewhere I discovered that a certain version of Cedega would do the job - therefore I torrent'd it.
With the no-cd crack, Cedega could run Vanilla total war, although I didn't check to see if it was actually playable, it may have suffered from the problems I mention later - I've had my fill of vanilla.
I supposed that EB adjusted the .exe file of R:TW, and since the crack replaced the .exe, I was in trouble. Maybe, Just, maybe, I supposed, If I downloaded the fixed CD image, it might work - but the fixed image was in Alcholol format and there was no way I was going to push my luck trying to run Alcohol and Daemon inside Cedega at the same time as R:TW; At this stage I'd already traded half a night's sleep for Total war; also, sine these fixed images use bad sectors, I doubted it would convert properly to .iso . Aaargh! Might I also mention that working out how Cedega manages its files behind all that I'd lost Total War twice and had to reinstall. Before today I've also had another half night and I'm starting to look a little sickly.
So I was stuck. Then I decided to see what would happen if I ran EB with the cracked .exe anyway. To my amazement, it started up, but crashed in a few moments. since the program takes minutes to load up (It's a huge mod) - debugging at this stage became painful. I systematically ticked and unticked every box in Cedega, and got through many chapters of my Caesar. I noticed that the game crashed after a few seconds even If I did nothing - The only thing it was processing was the music... It must have been the music.
On the EB site I remember a troubleshooting guide that recommended adding a -nm argument to RTW, which I guessed might stand for no music... But It didn't, I still had music next time I started up but... Lo and behold - It didn't crash! And what's more, I could change the settings, browse the factions, start a game, and even enter battle. The only visual funky that was at all offputting was the reflections of clouds on the sea made it look like the sky, giving the impression that Europe was floating in the sky. The mouse would not scroll to the right and bottom of the map - Which the web had warned me would happen - which I could workaround by using the minimap (And thus improve my geographical knowledge a little bit at the same time)
I felt so accomplished! I thought I was Caesar at Pharsalus, finally having overcome Pompey against great odds and having won control of Rome. It turns out I was Pompey on the lam arriving to the warm arms of his old lieutenant in Alexandria, thinking he was home safe but soon finding a knife in his back. The keyboard was not working and I could find no help to make it work. Running a battle without the shortcuts would be impossible and, besides, without escape I couldn't get into the menu and save the game. 
Curses!

So I think I'm going to bite the bullet and make an XP partition. I'm going to keep wine on my Ubuntu. It's pretty big, but I think I'll save space all in all by assembling my windows programs and patches and packs in Wine and just copying them to my XP partition, so that no installers or autoupgraders or registry changers or other wizards burgle any of my space.  I .torrent'd XPlite, so I'll make the OS as small as possible, and not even connect it to the internet, So I won't need any security or internet programs - I'll really use it ONLY for Games. My old computer functions just enough to keep XP on for other limited purposes- currently I'm using it to print, copying files over on a USB flash drive, since my Canon Pixma iP1000 won't work in 64 bit Linux. 
The whole process looks a bit daunting, what with losing GRUB and all - But I'm psyched up for it, I've copied the how to's across to said old computer. I'll assemble all the creature comforts I need for an evening in front of the PC. I'll feel a little sad for not being able to tell people 'I don't even have windows on my computer' but really, an old offline XP is a very different creature to updated online XP.

Do I really have to make XP the first partition, if I'm just using it in this limited way? I.E. what happens if I don't?
Can I make the partition bigger/smaller later with Gparted If I want to add/remove a couple of other games?

(oh, I'll be doing this thing before anybody is able to respond anyway, probably)

---

### Post by Gavla on 2007-12-15
I had decided to partition some drive off to XP.
The guide at [http://apcmag.com/6101/dualboot_windows_xp_and_ubuntu]("http://apcmag.com/6101/dualboot_windows_xp_and_ubuntu") made me pretty confident that this was a easy enough, if time consuming and involved. But by the time I was looking at the XP desktop, I was marveling at how simple it was. My plan was complicated, however; I needed to install some drivers from an automatic CD I had to get the sound and video and especially network working so I could get and on the internet; Windows needs to be activated, I had forgotten. That program needed to restart two times, and it all seemed to be in order. 
I decided to check Windows update manager to see if maybe it was not too much hassle to get some of the more important updates, but before it even began it wanted to update the update program and a couple of other things and restart the computer.
It didn't start again - I got complete black. And So pitch black that even the Gparted and Ubuntu LiveCDs didn't get far enough to get me back into a system - they froze up with messages like 'frozen' and 'logical error' - Eventually I found a program that would work, XP installer. It told me at first a message that included 'SCSI devices may still be working' but got through to the partition selector the second time - I imagine in my ignorance that the act of querying those still working SCSI devices the first time cleared them out, But the two Linux LiveCDs still weren't working, XP install was my only option.
I tried to begin the XP install again over the Partition I had already put it on - It hadn't taken that long, but it gave me an error of some sort... About the disk or the partition. 
After that the Ubuntu LiveCD worked, but Gparted scanned forever and found nothing.
To my horror, there was nothing to find. Gparted Live, XP install and Ubuntu Live all confirmed it - No drive letters, 72GB of unallocated space. I'd lost the whole lot.
Why oh why oh why was I such an Idiot that I didn't at least back up my screenplay. This is a disaster. I broke my principles of no Windows and less games and I got punished for it... A complete but needs better characterization 63 page document, a year's labor  (alongside school) down the gurgler. I'm being delivered a message about my habits, and I felt so horrible confirming the 'this will delete all your data' prompt that It's going to be less wasteful playing with myself and more creative output for Mr Gav here, for sure. I'll remember.
What happened? I can't be sure whether it was that driver disk or XP upgrading itself, but In either case I hadn't strayed from autoplay default value click next to continue user friendly Windows basics, and they wiped me clean. That stuff is poison! I'll live without the games, I want it off of my box... For the few minutes I was using it it was much slower than Ubuntu, I noticed - plus my minimal install was quickly becoming very bloated.
Eventually, I'll be able to make my Ubuntu and my Screenplay back, and better than before from what I learned, but It'll be a tough progress and I'm already exhausted from all the work trying to get games working earlier this week.
I haven't put on the restricted video drivers yet. I got Celtx, which isn't 100% ideal free, but she's getting there. I wonder how far I can take this one, now that I've been forced to start again.

---

### Post by Gavla on 2008-01-02
Europa Barbarorum now runs happily on my laptop very slowly. My crashes were in fact caused by the beta software, so now I can read and play. To get as much bloat as possible out of the the old machine I installed the oldest version of XP I could find and planned to keep it off the internet. I forgot that you needed to activate it in order to get it to work! So I had to do what was necessary to get her on the internet and - here's some more anti Windows Polemic - in the few minutes I was online, someone got my internet password and logged on as me and used a few gigabytes of my bandwidth! I don't know anything about this stuff, but I assume they were lying in wait at the default webpage IE sends you to as a sort of congratulations on getting on the internet, NineMSN,(An Australian Television Channel) waiting for just this thing to happen.  Urgh

That friends band is getting together for another tour, so I'm creating a slide show, and I'm going to be testing some Ubuntu stuff out in the process. Openoffice impress seems to run very slowly compared to Powerpoint; In Powerpoint I could put two slides next to each other that looked like an animation and use the up and down arrows to make it change in time to the music, but Impress doesn't respond quickly enough, even though the file is tiny. This doesn't make sense to me. It's much better at putting videos in the presentation though. In Powerpoint, this was theoretically simple, but always worked wacky. I installed the restricted drivers to see if that sped up, but no joy.

Enigma has caused something of a puzzle renaissance for me. What a great game! I love being able to select the puzzle of your choice but still wanting and just about being able to play through them all, since there's enough of them to keep you entertained... Especially if you try to get some pars. My brain's stimulated and so I've also discovered the Gnome Sudoku. Not the world's most entertaining game, but a great way to activate the brain first thing in the morning if you've slept too heavily. I've also been tinkering with Gnome Chess.

I know this aint an Enigma forum, but this is part of the story... Now that I'm running at a higher resolution, I suspect, Enigma was acting up. In fullscreen, after a while, it jumps to a window, kills the keys, and steals the mouse so much that I can only get out with a ctrl-alt-backspace. Then for a while it was doing this as soon as I started it up when it got to a certain part of the loading. I fixed it by deleting config files a few times, but I'm not sure exactly what setting was borking it. I play it in a window now, and I get a crash to desktop while highlighting thumbnails of the levels in the level browser, If I do a lot of them or too many too quick. That's no prob, you can be back in the browser in about three seconds. I also get a common bug in Enigma where the mouse has a spasm, with potentially heartbreaking results.

So given that I installed the restricted video drivers, I decided to get a 3D game. I had been playing Alien Arena before everything died, but I'd gotten the one from the repository... It's kind of silly that an old version of a game that's so internet multi player oriented should install an old version. By the time I realized this last month I'd already wasted my bandwidth on Deluge crashes and had to wait to upgrade it.

I think my new video mode is also behind the occasional odd behavior of the Ubuntu Log In. If I switch to a user B, sometimes when I do switch back to user A, the screen is just white instead of showing the login, but the second user is selected behind it, so if I enter the password and hit enter, I get in.

Speaking of Deluge, it was nagging me hard to upgrade. Every time it started it tried to direct me to the upload site, and If I said 'no thanks' it quit. Often it crashed while displaying this dialogue, especially if I had other programs running - as if It were crashing if the upgrade dialogue appeared before Deluge had loaded all its graphics. That was a bit funky and quite frustrating, since my previous crashed trained me to often  close and restart it.

I was agonizing somewhat over getting Alien Arena to work. The libraries ldd claimed were missing were found by 'search for files' and so all the advice in the forum when I searched for the program and the libraries seemed to be addressing my problem, but didn't actually solve it. Then I thought laterally - perhaps I was stimulated by my morning Gnome Sudoku  - and found Cappy's wonderful getlibs [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=474790]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=474790") which solved my problem in a minute jiffy. 

Now here's something that I'm having issues understanding: How to install downloaded non deb software so that the program is shared by all users, but they get their own preferences.
If I put my Alien Arena in /opt and create a symbolic link, as I did with celtx learned through this post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=632795]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=632795") will it be smart enough to create one of those hidden .alienarena2007 files in the home directory of any user that runs it, so they can have their own preferences? I don't know if this is even working for my celtx, as it doesn't have much in the way of options - there's a .celtx folder, but it's empty.
And the symbolic link to crx, the alien arena executable doesn't seem to work. I'm not fussed about that.

---

### Post by Gavla on 2008-02-09
There's never anyone on Alien Arena. My Multiplayer FPS of choice now is Skulltag, running on my new Windows Hard Drive. I shelled out the measly $53 for this thing so I boot both systems without further heartbreak. I have thus far done it only for the games (my laptop finally breathed its last breath) and to use my old printer.
I've been trying to create this presentation in Open Office Impress, and I think that I'm going to have to install M$Office and run it through that. I'll do all the building and browsing for pictures and writing on this hard drive, then export it to run on the other. For whatever antecedents, OpenOffice Impress is not up to scratch - The animations and Transitions are ugly, Fontworks is weak, when pasting slides I often need to adjust the colors and styles by hand, and I just can't get the slides to change quick enough come showtime. It's not even just for scaled pictures any more; now that the slideshow is getting bigger, transitions which are just new text boxes appearing are slow.
For the sake of this show, I need to be able to change the slides in time to the music. I'm very disappointed. OpenOffice is a very high profile demonstration of what free software is supposed to be, and It's let me down.

---

