---
title: "[11.10] ati/amd gfx problems"
date: 2011-10-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by luvgirl12345 on 2011-10-08
Well I decided to upgrade to the new 11.10 beta today. After I installed the new version unity launched and everything went well... It was only lagging/stuttering like hell!! So I thought if I uninstall fglrx and reinstall the binary from atis website it would magicly fix itself... I was wrong:

[[IMG]http://www9.picfront.org/picture/6bGD9ALNWPh/thb/Screenshotat2011-10-08195814.png[/IMG]]("http://picfront.de/d/8ngr")

I can still launch programs and everything because of gnome-do and docky...

edit: I don't care if I get classic gnome, unity or gnome shell... just want my install to work again...

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-10-08
When you run beta code, you should expect it to break.

I have only installed drivers from "Additional Drivers," and it has always worked well.

What video card? What CPU?

Can you re-install?

---

### Post by belini on 2011-10-13
I have the same problem.

 I updated 11.04 to 11.10 and everything was fine
 But when I went to update the fglrx the system got the same screen

 Apparently with nautilus only ...

 How can I fix?

 My system has an integrated ati hd4250

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2011-10-14
There are proper instructions for ATI here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857059&highlight=effenberg+ati](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857059&highlight=effenberg+ati)

Regards,
Effenberg

---

### Post by Cynical on 2011-10-14
I just dealt with this problem myself. Here is the easy fix for it. 

Hit ALT+F2 in order to get to the terminal (ALT+F7 will take you back to the desktop)

1. Remove fglrx related packages
```
sudo apt-get purge fglrx*
```

2. Delete xorg.conf
```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

3. Reinstall xorg components
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-core libgl1-mesa-glx:i386 libgl1-mesa-dri:i386 libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64
```

4. Reconfigure Xorg
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

and finally

5. Reboot
```
sudo reboot
```

Also it's helpful to have the package nautilus-open-terminal installed so that if unity or the 3d components of the gui go bonkers you always have a terminal on right click. (helpful for launching a browser to investigate the problem)

Edit: After installing ccsm and disabling "sync to vblank" and enabling "tear free" in the catalyst control panel, window dragging is back to normal. (no tears/jerkiness, though it feels a bit slower) I may go back to the open source drivers still, but I'm going to give fglrx another shot.

Edit2: Gave it a shot but I prefer the open source drivers.

---

### Post by belini on 2011-10-14
> **effenberg0x0 said:**
> There are proper instructions for ATI here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857059&highlight=effenberg+ati](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857059&highlight=effenberg+ati)
Regards,
Effenberg

I have followed all the steps in this link, particularly in the section:

 > In panel / launcher on Unity after install Video Driver
 - Try to follow the Instructions posted here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1856053](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1856053)

 I removed all proprietary AMD drivers and xserver-xorg-video-ati, I installed the latest drivers from AMD, following all instructions

Also I removed and reinstalled compiz

 And not solve the problem.

 Strange that works well Unity2D

 I do not know what to do ...

---

### Post by alreadytaken4536 on 2011-10-14
If I reinstall 11.10 from the live CD, boot into recovery mode and do everything in effenberg0x0's post before doing anything else, should it all work out ok?

EDIT: I had just done a reinstallation (wiped my whole drive for it) because upgrading from 11.04 caused too many problems. The live CD worked flawlessly and installed quickly, but when I tried logging in, I got the purple screen and Ubuntu would not load. I installed catalyst by booting into recovery mode and following [these instructions]("http://wiki.catalystframework.org/wiki/installingcatalyst#Installation_from_packages"). After that I tried logging in and my screen was essentially split down the middle, each half of the screen swapped, and flashing so much that if I was epileptic I'd be on my way to the hospital right now. I was able to log in, but then I only had a background.

AMD Radeon 6670.

EDIT2: Never mind! I did a second clean install, followed the instructions by effenberg0x0, logged in to Ubuntu 2D and activated drivers via Additional Drivers. My screen was still massively screwed at that point, but logging out and back in fixed it.

---

### Post by Prosis on 2011-10-15
To effenberg0x0: You my friend are what I'd like to qualify a savior! Thanks!

---

### Post by mrego on 2011-10-16
Works for me on  AMD C-60 APU with Radeon HD Graphics
thx

---

### Post by Amgad elsaiegh on 2011-10-16
i have the same problem too ](*,)
i tried to reset unity using the command unity --reset and here is the output

> unity-panel-service: no process found
 Checking if settings need to be migrated ...no
 Checking if internal files need to be migrated ...no
 Backend : gconf
 Integration : true
 Profile : default
 Adding plugins
 Skipping upgrade com.canonical.unity.unity.01.upgrade
 Skipping upgrade com.canonical.unity.unity.02.upgrade
 Initializing core options...done
 Initializing bailer options...done
 Initializing detection options...done
 Initializing composite options...done
 Initializing opengl options...done
 Initializing decor options...done
 Initializing mousepoll options...done
 Initializing vpswitch options...done
 Initializing animation options...done
 Initializing snap options...done
 compiz (expo) - Warn: failed to bind image to texture
 Initializing expo options...done
 Initializing move options...done
 Initializing place options...done
 Initializing grid options...done
 Initializing gnomecompat options...done
 Initializing wall options...done
 Initializing ezoom options...done
 Initializing workarounds options...done
 Initializing staticswitcher options...[ERROR]: Option "next_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "next_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "next_all_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "next_all_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_all_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_all_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "next_group_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "next_group_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_group_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_group_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "next_no_popup_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "next_no_popup_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_no_popup_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_no_popup_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "next_panel_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "next_panel_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_panel_button" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "prev_panel_key" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "speed" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "timestep" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "window_match" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "minimized" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "auto_change_vp" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "popup_delay" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "mouse_select" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "saturation" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "brightness" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "opacity" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "icon" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "icon_only" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "mipmap" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "row_align" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "focus_on_switch" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "bring_to_front" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "highlight_mode" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "highlight_rect_hidden" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "highlight_color" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "highlight_border_color" already defined
 [ERROR]: Option "highlight_border_inlay_color" already defined
 done
 Initializing resize options...done
 Initializing fade options...done
 Initializing scale options...done
 Initializing session options...done
 Starting unity-window-decorator

 (unity-window-decorator:1726): Gtk-WARNING **: Unable to locate theme engine in module_path: "pixmap",

 (unity-window-decorator:1726): Gtk-WARNING **: Unable to locate theme engine in module_path: "pixmap",

 (unity-window-decorator:1726): Gtk-WARNING **: Unable to locate theme engine in module_path: "pixmap",

 (unity-window-decorator:1726): Gtk-WARNING **: Unable to locate theme engine in module_path: "pixmap",


after i was excited to try 11.10 now my first impression that it sucks [sorry]

---

### Post by ru2044 on 2011-10-16
del

---

### Post by belini on 2011-10-17
I noticed that when I log in Unity2d he quickly opens the nautilus and passes control to the unity that starts the top bar, dock, etc ...

 That is, both in 2D and in 3D Nautilius runs after logon. The difference is that in 3D it can not initialize the Unity ...

 Maybe one configuration file is not correct or maybe it's a bug.

 The ATI drivers are OK, because I can play OpenGL games without problems ...

 I hope a future update fix it ...

---

### Post by ru2044 on 2011-10-17
I followed effenberg0x0's tutorial:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.p...=effenberg+ati]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.p...=effenberg+ati")

but I failed.

after > sudo service lightdm stop I get: > stop:unknown command

Even though I was going further. I typed > sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx* I get: > fglrx - such file doesn't exist

After downloading and installing Catalyst driver I typed: > sudo dpkg -i ati*.deb I get: > can't do that because .....is not a .deb file 
I am writing using my  memory, cause i don't know how to put 'code'.

What did I wrong?

I 've got AMD APU-3850. Motherboard is Asus F1A75-M

---

### Post by belini on 2011-10-19
It seems that in our case it only remains to format the drive and do a clean install ...
 This Ubuntu is buggy.
 To have an idea, a friend was setting up the network and had to disable the network manager, in doing so the unity stopped working.
 Where is the independence of services from Linux?
 In what became the Ubuntu?:confused:

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-10-19
> **belini said:**
> This Ubuntu is buggy.

 
Parhaps, but there is also the upgrade procedure that many in thhis thread forgot to follow. That is if oyu have proprietary drivers installed you need ot remove them first before doing the upgrade and then add new ones later on. 
 
in windows as i know the old ones are usually ignored and the upgrade boots into safe mode promtiong you to install new drivers. 
 
In Ubuntu they stay behind but are not ignored. they get used and since they are not integraded propperly into the new system (they get in the way of default opensource drivers i guess) you get a failed system. if you used Opensource drivers the old ones get dumped on new install and new ones get used.
 
the safest method of upgrade seems to be clean OS install by keeping your home folder on separate parittion and backing up your settings before doing this.
 
 
 
as mentioned another solution is to COMPLETELLY remove the old drivers, install& enable opensource ones and then install the new drivers via the hardware drivers application (where there should be ubuntu compiled drivers).

---

### Post by belini on 2011-10-19
> **mastablasta said:**
> 
as mentioned another solution is to COMPLETELLY remove the old drivers.

I agree and I did it.
 Removed all fglrx drivers, and even the xserver-xorg-video-ati ...
 I downloaded and installed new drivers, but there's no way I can only use Unity2D.
 Play OpenGL games. All 3D tests are right ...
 This is really complicated ...:???:

---

### Post by Bucic on 2011-10-23
Maybe some people should investigate this 
> **Bucic][SIZE=3]**Ubuntu LiveCD provides multitude of my installed ubuntu **[/SIZE][SIZE=3]**performance**[/SIZE][SIZE=3]**! **[/SIZE]
[/QUOTE]
topic [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1868094](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1868094)

[QUOTE=effenberg0x0 said:**
> There are proper instructions for ATI here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857059&highlight=effenberg+ati](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857059&highlight=effenberg+ati)

Regards,
Effenberg
I got stuck at some point. After I issued 
```
sudo dpkg -i ati*.deb
```
I got 'not found' error and indeed there were no ati*.deb files in the /ati/ directory - just ati*.run (the installer) and 3 or 4 fglrx*.deb files. For a pure experiment instead of that command above I issued 
```
sudo dpkg -i fglrx*.deb
```
IIRC it went ahead without errors. I completed the rest of the instructions and got stuck in command line. The desktop won't show up.

I am less interested in recovering my broken system (it was fresh anyway). I'd just like to make the graphics drivers work properly.

---

### Post by gaspy_89 on 2011-10-28
Hi guys,
I have the same problem installing kubuntu on my notebook (Ati Radeon HD videocard) and maybe i have understood what is the problem:
The blank screen appears after installing updates, so i've tried to reinstall the os and without installing 2 updates: xserver-common and xserver-xorg-core.
It could be a update problem..It works for me!! :P:P:P:P:P:P:D

---

### Post by vananematu on 2011-12-22
Has anyone tried ati amd 11.11 driver with ubuntu 11.10 ?

Last time i tried i still didn't get ati 11.9 drivers working under ubuntu 11.10. I have a Acer aspire 4820TG Timeline series with 2 graphics cards. Ati 11.9 driver was working fine under ubuntu 10.10 where i could even switch the graphics card under ati control panel.

In ubuntu 11.10 i dont even get to desktop. I tried the drivers from ubuntu own restricted offers as well (jockey) but it didnt give me a 3D acceleration. I mean i couldn'd run any opengl program. What a joke.. I followed all available instructions here.. So i quit a month ago or so. 

Now i noticed that amd has come up already with a 11.11 driver. I'll give it a go some time. 

Just wondering if anyone else has tried it out with a similar configuration i have?

---

