---
title: "Can't mount one NTFS partition"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Thanh-BKK on 2008-04-27
Hello.

I think i have accidentally screqwed something up, and need a way to get it back working.

Situation: Ubuntu 8.04 on 80 GB drive, 500 GB second drive, partitioned into 4 NTFS partitions.

Initially, nothing would make these mount upon boot, so i went reading and googling and tried different methods - none of which worked initially. 

Amongs those were "sudo mkdir /media/Backup" (Backup is the name of that partition)

I then came across NTFS-config and that semmed to work - it detected all four partitions and allowed me to set them to read/write etc.

Upon boot, THREE of them mounted - the "Backup" one still not! I could however still mount that manually (by just clicking it in "Places").

So i though i had to remove the folder/directory i created earlier - i did a "sudo rmdir /media/Backup".

And now i can't mount that partition anymore at all!

Even tough meantime i have recreated that directory, the only way to mount that partition is via Gparted...... NTFS-config doesn't bring the config window anymore, and when i click the "Backup" in "Places" i get "You are not privileged to mount volume "Backup". 

Please, someone help me to get that back.... exactly that one is the most important of the four! And having to use Gparted is a pain in the @ss......

Many thanks in advance for a solution......

Thanh

---

### Post by Thanh-BKK on 2008-04-27
Umm...

here's my fstab, if required:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=50c08996-facc-4c92-928e-82a2baa4bedc / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=9a5687d4-3ba5-4c6d-aba4-1d9bcb68f42b /home ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=14926b8f-7a88-4b5a-add9-80adca4d0280 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb5 /media/U-Torrent ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb3 /media/Backup ntfs-3G defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb2 /media/Music ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/Data ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

Best regards.....

Thanh

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2008-04-27
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=762027]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=762027")

---

### Post by Thanh-BKK on 2008-04-27
Hello :)

Yup, unbelievably.... after some 13 hours straight messing with Linux (Hardy installed in the morning, tweaking etc the whole day, now almost midnight) i overlooked the bug:

See fstab.... there's a capital "G" where a small "g" should be.... and THAT'S the error!

Corrected that.... now it mounts fine :)

best regards.....

Thanh

---

