---
title: "Please help"
date: 2010-03-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2010-03-05
I think there might be some sort of error in my current installation. Its hard to specify exactly what is wrong with it as it's never the same thing each time. The only thing I can think of is that either some thing I've installed is causing trouble which I think is unlikely as I get everything from the Software Manager. Or, the other day when I re-sized the partition, it did some damage. i don't know if that could be the case or not. all I know is that lately is been getting less and less reliable. 

Is there some way with out re-installing it that I can check it as thoroughly as possible, and fix any issuse that it has. I am tempted to re-install but would like to try and a void it as I don't have internet access to update and re-install the extra software that I've added on. I have to take it to a mates place to do that. And I don't want to be chewing up his download quoter any more than I already do.

Please, what do I do? Terminal commands? Particular Programs??

---

### Post by flippo on 2010-03-05
Different problems have different causes.  I don't know of anything that will check your entire ubuntu system.  If you can provide some examples of your problems someone may be able to help you narrow down the source of the error, or even a possible fix.

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-03-05
The next time you are at your mates pull in some diagnostic software.  Sysinfo is usefull as is htop.  Both can be got using apt-get in the terminal "sudo apt-get install .....".  Also posting more specifically would help.  There are also options such as repair files in the rescue mode when booting up.  If you use them remember that you will have to re-enable your hardware drivers afterwards.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-03-05
Well, there's memtest (from the grub menu) to check your RAM, and palimpsest (if you're using 9.10) to check your hard disks; for a start.

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2010-03-05
[LIST=1]
[*]Some has been programs not opening correctly i.e. I open a program, when I go to maximize the window it just flicks to the window behind it.
[*]It randomly covers/doesn't display icons/buttons on my task bar, the worse one was when the main button to shutdown/restart/sleep/log off etc wasn't displayed and I had use  "shutdown -h +1" to shut it down.
[*]The other night it froze on shut down on a txt screen saying something about Virtual box and the second one below that was something about Alsa (sorry cant remember exactly what it said), I ended up holding the power button in.
[*]Also this morning my usb stick wasn't showing up, after one or two reboots it showed up again.
[*]Last night I was trying to rip a DVD with dvd::rip and it appeared to have frozen so i tried closing it but nothing happened I waited a bit incase it needed some time for what ever reason. when nothing happened i killed the process and now since then the HDD I was ripping to (a second Library drive) is saying that its got bad sectors. I'm really annoyed about this one as it was still relatively new. I can still use it but I don't the look of getting warnings about it. Oh and it was at one point since then randomly disappearing and reappearing.
[/LIST]
That all I can think off at the moment. Any one got any ideas?

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2010-03-05
> **houseworkshy said:**
> The next time you are at your mates pull in some diagnostic software. ** Sysinfo is usefull** as is htop.  Both can be got using apt-get in the terminal "sudo apt-get install .....".  Also posting more specifically would help.  There are also options such as repair files in the rescue mode when booting up.  If you use them remember that you will have to re-enable your hardware drivers afterwards.


I have Sysinfo actually. I've posted just below the info it gave me. I just so happen to have it save to my USB stick. I'm still new to it though, are there any other features on it that I can use to try solve any issues?



> 
System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 4/03/2010 12:02:45 a.m.
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
    Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 9.10 (karmic) release.
    GNOME: 2.28.1 (Ubuntu 2009-11-03)
    Kernel version: 2.6.31-19-generic (#56-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jan 28 01:26:53 UTC 2010)
    GCC: 4.4.1 (i486-linux-gnu)
    Xorg: unknown (14 November 2009  05:48:26PM) (14 November 2009  05:48:26PM)
    Hostname: Atrix-Ubuntu
    Uptime: 0 days 0 h 33 min

CPU INFORMATION
    AuthenticAMD, AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 5600+
    Number of CPUs: 2
    CPU clock currently at 2800.000 MHz with 1024 KB cache
    Numbering: family(15) model(67) stepping(3)
    Bogomips: 5627.61
    Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt rdtscp lm 3dnowext 3dnow extd_apicid pni cx16 lahf_lm cmp_legacy svm extapic cr8_legacy

MEMORY INFORMATION
    Total memory: 2013 MB
    Total swap: 3898 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
    SCSI device -  scsi0
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  WDC WD3200AAKS-0 
    SCSI device -  scsi1
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  WDC WD5000AADS-0 
    SCSI device -  scsi4
        Vendor:  HL-DT-ST 
        Model:  DVDRAM GSA-H44N  
    SCSI device -  scsi4
        Vendor:  ASUS     
        Model:  DRW-1608P        

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
    Host bridge
        Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
    PCI bridge(s)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCI Bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 01)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCI Bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 01)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
    USB controller(s)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 10)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a3) (prog-if 20)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 10)
        nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a3) (prog-if 20)
    ISA bridge
        nVidia Corporation CK804 ISA Bridge (rev a3)
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device 0c11
    IDE interface
        nVidia Corporation CK804 Serial ATA Controller (rev f3) (prog-if 85 [Master SecO PriO])
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device b003

GRAPHIC CARD
    VGA controller
        nVidia Corporation G84 [GeForce 8600 GT] (rev a1)

SOUND CARD
    Multimedia controller
        nVidia Corporation CK804 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev a2)
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device ae03

NETWORK

NVIDIA GRAPHIC CARD INFORMATION
    Model name: GeForce 8600 GT
    Card Type: PCI-E 16x
    Video RAM: 512 MB
    GPU Frequency: 540 MHz
    Driver version: NVIDIA UNIX x86 Kernel Module  185.18.36  Fri Aug 14 17:18:04 PDT 2009


---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-03-06
We have similar machines except your nvidia is better.   Some programs are not compatable with the desktop effects so it *could* be that disabling them may help with problem 1.
Problem 2 is something I had too on 9.10 before I put in the hardware drivers after which all was well.  So perhaps it is worth reinstalling them.  System>Administration> Hardware Drivers.  I had a lot of issues with nvidia and 9.10 when it was fresh and ended up having to put in a beta driver in the end, I think that all that has been sorted since.  Even so, tired of the "bleeding edge", I'm sticking with 9.04 until 10.04lts looks ok.   [http://www.ubuntugeek.com](http://www.ubuntugeek.com) has some very good articles on nvidia.  
I've always had to use "sudo shutdown -r now" on a fresh install before the hardware drivers have gone in and assumed it was normal.  On posting this as a handy tip for beginners I was told that it wasn't normal,  probably a bug and should be reported;  which I did [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/518833](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/518833)   Perhaps I am not alone?

Problem 3 Virtual box I've only played with in its free cripple-ware form so I can't help much there.  Alt+F2 can bypass some crashes when the gui isn't working but not all.

The dvd and usb problems also coming up, but randomly, suggests a random error.  That, especially with all the other stuff, may mean that you have a problem with heat.  If it is dirt in the box acting as unwanted insulation even a fresh install won't help so it may be that the cure is a good clean inside the box.  You can find out either via your bios, with a restart when it has been on for a while and reached its operating temperature, or by installing lm-sensors "sudo apt-get install lm-sensors"

You'd want to back up I expect.  So try doing that first, after the machine has been turned off for a while to cool down.  Just nip in to get the essentials before the pc warms up and don't bother with things you can replace from the net or installation discs.

It you still have problems after a clean, or don't need one, then, unless you don't need the pc for a while and would welcome the learning process, I'd simply re-install as it would be quicker than sorting that lot out.

Well that's what I'd do.  Wish I could be more help.  Good luck with it.

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2010-03-07
Thanks for that. glad to hear some explanations.

It gets worse though. Remember that HDD that had bad sectors.... well now it doesn't even go now. I mean it won't even show up on the system. not in bios... not on Ubuntu... no where... So if any one happens to know of any sites that could help me with this I'd be glad to know.

As for the issues I'll give it another chance I think if I have any issues I'll do a clean install. I might have to if this HDD won't go. I'll have to re-arrange my drrives.

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-03-24
Sorry didn't see that you'd posted again until now.  It sounds like hd failure is possible.  You could try booting from the live cd and using partitioin manager ( gparted probably but my time in 9.10 was brief so I could be wrong ).  Caution with it as it is a powerful tool which can destroy as well as mend, you should be safe enough using it as a diagnostic though ( as in look and back out ).  If the hd is supposed to boot see if the "bootable" flag is set.  There is also a distro called Puppy linux which is so small one can boot it as a live cd, load it to ram and then remove the cd.  As Puppy has a disc burner included this is very handy for backing up work.
[http://puppylinux.org/main/index.php?file=Overview%20and%20Getting%20Started.htm](http://puppylinux.org/main/index.php?file=Overview%20and%20Getting%20Started.htm)

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2010-03-24
Thanks for your response. Yea I know of Puupy as it was the first distro that introduced me to Linux. I still have in case I ever need it for maintenance stuff. I also have two versions of Parted Magic.

In regards to the failing hard drive, it had defiantly failed. I spoke to a few experts that I knew of and they all seemed to believe that it was dead. So I spoke to my mate that I brought it from who assured me that it was still under warranty and that he would send it back, they would test it, and send a replacement. So that was all good. Apparently the test report said that the tester couldn't find it either. All good now though. Got a replacement, and aside from a couple hiccups it seems to be working fine. :p

---

