---
title: "10.04 firefox problem"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iFreeBudget on 2010-05-01
I have a strange problem with 10.04 and firefox. I did a clean install and every thing is working great. Only problem is every now and then something happens to firefox. The address bar (awesome bar) stops working, anything I type in the bar doesnot show matching entries.

I am running x86_64 version.

Anyone else notice this?

---

### Post by hedgeborn on 2010-05-01
I haven't had this problem, but I am running the 32 bit version of Firefox.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-01
Nope, every thing's fine on my x64 install.

---

### Post by iFreeBudget on 2010-05-01
I did a complete uninstall/reinstall of firefox but still happens. My ubuntu install is the final RC before the official one. Could that be the issue?

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-01
It could be. I have the official release.

---

### Post by iFreeBudget on 2010-05-01
More info...

Only pattern I've noticed is this happens when the browser is up and the screensaver kicks in and locks the user. After logging back in, FF addressbar stops working.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-01
Give me a minute and I'll check to see if I can replicate that.

---

### Post by Pingster on 2010-05-01
The first thing I would check is Edit>Preferences>Privacy>Location Bar>When using the location bar, suggest:

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-02
Sorry that one minute became 15, but I got distracted by the dirty dishes.

No change in my location bar's behaviour after unlocking I'm afraid. Perhaps there's something wrong with the way your Ubuntu is configured. Try running 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm' and see if that fixes it.

---

### Post by americanLoki on 2010-05-02
I have the same problem. The bar is still visible and works (I can type in a URL and go to the address no problems) but the standard stuff the "awesome bar" does (like bring up your history, etc.) doesn't work. I notice this happens after putting my laptop in sleep mode with a browser window open and coming back later. A simple closing of all browser windows and then restarting Firefox fixes the issue. I also noticed this issue with Chrome too.

---

### Post by Unicast on 2010-05-02
Getting this here too with FF 3.6.3. in Lucid.

Very annoying to say the least. :(

---

### Post by iFreeBudget on 2010-05-02
Good to know I am not the only one. Now if only there is a solution for this....

---

### Post by Texasdad on 2010-05-03
my Firefox just vanishes when I try to go to Yahoo mail box--I have been using Google chrome since the last few hours--and that works fine.
TD

---

### Post by cacycleworks on 2010-05-04
I just installed 10.04 (keeping the same /home) and firefox won't even start. I moved .mozilla to .mozilla-old and it works... so something from my legacy install is pissing off the new install... 

:P

---

### Post by cacycleworks on 2010-05-04
FAIL: I just realized that I had .mozilla a soft link to another directory, one which no longer existed. 

So, if .mozilla is a bad link, and cannot be written to, firefox will not start.

---

### Post by Texasdad on 2010-05-04
I updated my system, but Firefox still keeps vanishing. Yesterday,  my computer froze once, and I had to pull out the power cord and restart the computer. 
The internet connection also looks slow "generally", even with chrome.
TD

---

### Post by jasontheparamedic on 2010-05-04
My firefox isn't working right at all.  The screen stopped sizing correctly.  The far right bar that allows you to scroll up and down is almost out of the screen resolution.  The top part of the screen that shows the applications/documents/administration/etc disappears when the browser opens.  This occurred after my upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04 LTS.

---

### Post by Unicast on 2010-05-07
Just done it again.

Started typing the address of a frequently visited website into the address bar, and nothing.... no suggestions.

Restart Firefox and all's well with the world again.

This needs sorting.

---

### Post by tekstr1der on 2010-05-07
> **americanLoki said:**
> I have the same problem. The bar is still visible and works (I can type in a URL and go to the address no problems) but the standard stuff the "awesome bar" does (like bring up your history, etc.) doesn't work. I notice this happens after putting my laptop in sleep mode with a browser window open and coming back later. A simple closing of all browser windows and then restarting Firefox fixes the issue. I also noticed this issue with Chrome too.

You are experiencing this long-running bug:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-session/+bug/438868](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-session/+bug/438868)

No fix in sight as of now, but numerous workarounds, including simply minimizing & maximizing the firefox window will restore awesombar functionality.

---

### Post by Unicast on 2010-05-08
Trying out Chrome again now because of this annoying bug.

Surprised to see just how well Chrome has developed, and now has a nice selection of extensions (add-ons in firefox lingo).

AdBlock
Docs PDF (alt to adobe) - (non-loading pdf's a thing of the past)
Delicious bookmarks extension (beta)

Happy boy. :D

---

### Post by Unicast on 2010-05-15
Still not fixed in the nightly builds either.

Dead easy to replicate the bug. Pull up any website, and then hibernate your machine with firefox still open. Resume and then try and enter another url - you get nothing - no suggestions. Pha!

---

### Post by rearviewmirror on 2010-07-12
I have this problem too, I find it highly irritating.  I recently switched my Corporate laptop to Ubuntu as well.  To be honest, it's little things like this that make it difficult to sell in the enterprise.  I realize it's free, and we get what we pay for but damn.  I'd like to see the root cause of why it just stops working.  I'm running it on three different laptops and they all have the same problem.

Next time it happens I'll try the minimize/maximize workaround.

---

