---
title: "10.10 or 11.04"
date: 2011-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Romanrp on 2011-04-20
Hello, I finally persuaded my parents to use linux.
Should  I install ubuntu 10.10 on their rig or should I go straight away into 11.04 beta 2?

---

### Post by sammiev on 2011-04-20
I would suggest 10.10 first but burn the ISO to a cd and try it live first to see if all works. GL :) and like so, always make a backup first!

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-04-20
10.04

---

### Post by Romanrp on 2011-04-20
Why 10.04?
I am not sure which one is better, been away from ubuntu for ages haha.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-04-20
> **Romanrp said:**
> Why 10.04?
I am not sure which one is better, been away from ubuntu for ages haha.

Longer support; it's been around longer than 10.10, hence more bugs fixed.

---

### Post by An Sanct on 2011-04-20
I personally would prefer 10.10, since it is stable, unlike the beta...

For a new user it will be a hassle, when the beta flips and dies (also the Linux joy will faint away really quickly!!!)

My recommendation: Use the official version. Maverick [10.10] is out for 6 mounts now, it works great.

PS. TeoBigusGeeekus is *right* too, 10.04 is actually a Long Term Support version... and yes, try a Live CD/USB first, then install, when you feel like it.

---

### Post by Romanrp on 2011-04-20
They need an OS now because a virus made windows  kaput.
I think I will give 10.10 a go.
This unity thing looks dodgy.
Is it possible to install gnome 3 on ubuntu?

---

### Post by malleeblue on 2011-04-20
10.10 gets my vote too. Seeing how it's your parents I'd hold off 11.04 until a couple of months after it's been released. That way, if you have any problems, you're more likely to find answers on forums etc.

Before you go Ubuntu though, have you checked out [PinguyOS]("http://pinguy-os.sourceforge.net/"). It's Ubuntu based with a mix of other flavours but has been developed with folks like your parents in mind. I'd **highly** recommend you check it out.

---

### Post by Romanrp on 2011-04-20
PinguyOS looks nice, but I dont mind setting it up for them.
The last one I used was 9.10, has a lot changed considering setting it up and stuff?

---

### Post by malleeblue on 2011-04-20
> **Romanrp said:**
> PinguyOS looks nice, but I dont mind setting it up for them.
The last one I used was 9.10, has a lot changed considering setting it up and stuff?

You've gotta think past just the setup. Remember their needs and their ongoing experience. Consider the look, the feel, the day to day usage, the familiarity, etc.

Regarding setup, it's much the same. If you've done it before you'll be fine with it again.

---

### Post by marl30 on 2011-04-20
You should go with the LTS (10.04). 10.10 only has an 18 months time stamp, so in about a year you may have to install something that is still supported, while 10.04 will be supported until 2013.

---

### Post by Romanrp on 2011-04-20
Yeah thats true, but on the other hand gnome 2.xx is IMO the most simple and wonderful user interface, they will get accustomed to it quickly . They have used XP and 7, so it shouldnt be a big jump.

---

### Post by apochry on 2011-04-20
Yes, you can install gnome 3 on ubuntu, but I wouldn't have it for daily use. I you want to test the gnome 3 desktop better do it with some of the openSuse or Fedora live cd's [>here<.]("http://gnome3.org/tryit.html"). In my opinion it's not great, there is some lack of functionality  and it is pretty buggy.
Give your parents 10.04 or 10.10 and they we'll be happy. :)

Izzo

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-04-20
For the first time in a long time, two Ubuntu versions present very different desktops:
-- the 10.x series uses Gnome
-- the 11.x series uses Unity

Since either is going to be a dramatic change for them, why not just burn a LiveCD of each, load each into the PC, and show them both?

That way, THEY get to choose which one they want (not folks offering the own preferences here).

Also, understand that 11.04 is in BETA -- and according to reports, is one of the buggiest betas in a long time.  You don't want someone's first experience with Ubuntu to go badly -- so don't force a beta on them.

If they like Unity, you could install 10.10 for now (to give them something to use) and upgrade to 11.04 later when it's more stable.

---

