---
title: "[SOLVED] Flash Drive won't mount anymore!!!"
date: 2008-09-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by r4wj4 on 2008-09-04
i think the problem occurred when i was trying to mount my mp3 player. someone suggested i use the command:

 sudo modprobe ehci_hcd

which would detect my mp3 player the next time i plugged it in....didn't work. 

but i sure mucked something else up along the way...i can't mount my flash drive anymore...it shows up under places but when i click on it to access it, i get an error. same goes for my xp partition i was able to access that also before. please click link below:

[http://img401.imageshack.us/img401/3767/errorce5.jpg](http://img401.imageshack.us/img401/3767/errorce5.jpg)

everything used to work fine before...

how i recover from this...

---

### Post by lucho64 on 2008-09-04
try:
```

sudo rmmod ehci_hcd

```
If the modprobe line broke it, then this line might fix it. If that command doesn't work, look at the module usage with:
```

sudo lsmod

```
maybe some other module is using it now

---

### Post by r4wj4 on 2008-09-04
when i restarted ubuntu thinking this might fix the problem...it crashed X now im using xp right now to type this...how do i repair 
X? booted into the recovery part from grub and typed...

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

followed the menu and it spit back some error about not being able to write back to xorg...how do i get back in?

---

### Post by lucho64 on 2008-09-04
I don't think the modprobe line caused your problems. It seems we are going to need a lot more info to help you. Try looking at ```
sudo dmesg
```. Also look at the output from ```
mount
``` It could be one of your partitions is mounted read-only. How's your /etc/fstab configured?

---

### Post by r4wj4 on 2008-09-04
the commands are being done through the live cd

here's what my fstab looks like:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc                                       /proc          proc         defaults                    0  0  
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7eb0a729-d0b6-47e0-a9c1-1e4de335cdc0  /              ext3         relatime,errors=remount-ro  0  1  
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=740dd053-5aed-4160-b5de-3018e22ae474  none           swap         sw                          0  0  
/dev/scd1                                  /media/cdrom0  udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8       0  0  
/dev/scd0                                  /media/cdrom1  udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8       0  0  


and how do i dmesg for my ubuntu partiton if im in the livecd?

here's my output from mount:

proc on /proc type proc (rw)
sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw)
tmpfs on /lib/modules/2.6.24-19-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
tmpfs on /lib/modules/2.6.24-19-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
tmpfs on /tmp type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/ubuntu/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=ubuntu)
/dev/sda5 on /media/disk type ext3 (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=hal)
/dev/sda2 on /media/HP_PAVILION type fuseblk (rw,nosuid,nodev,noatime,allow_other,blksize=4096)

when i try to repair X by going to recovery i get this error: "cp: cannot create regular file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080904003443': Read-only file system"

---

### Post by lucho64 on 2008-09-04
Yes, that's what I thought. You have the option to remount read-only your root partition on errors. That's a safe option to have. You can more or less start everything will load to memory but you won't be able to write anything. If you are running from the live cd, try open a terminal and check the filesystem:
```

sudo umount /dev/sda5
sudo fsck.ext3 /dev/sda5

```
See if that fixes whatever inconsistencies are preventing the file system to be mounted read-write. Before that, though, look at the /media/disk/var/log/syslog* and see if it is complaining somewhere about the root filesystem, maybe with:
```

grep sda5 /media/disk/var/log/dmesg

```
although, it the system is really re-mounted read-only, it probably didn't write much to the log before it bailed out.

---

### Post by r4wj4 on 2008-09-04
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fsck.ext3 /dev/sda5
e2fsck 1.40.8 (13-Mar-2008)
/dev/sda5: clean, 144821/2007040 files, 2078416/8006386 blocks (check after next mount)

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fsck.ext3 /dev/sda5
e2fsck 1.40.8 (13-Mar-2008)
/dev/sda5 is mounted.  

WARNING!!!  Running e2fsck on a mounted filesystem may cause
SEVERE filesystem damage.

Do you really want to continue (y/n)? yes

/dev/sda5: recovering journal
/dev/sda5 has been mounted 21 times without being checked, check forced.
Pass 1: Checking inodes, blocks, and sizes


ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ grep sda5 /media/disk/var/log/dmesg
[   33.366925]  sda2 sda3 < sda5 sda6 >
[   44.452612] EXT3 FS on sda5, internal journal

/dev/sda5: clean, 144821/2007040 files, 2078416/8006386 blocks
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fsck.ext3 /dev/sda5
e2fsck 1.40.8 (13-Mar-2008)
/dev/sda5 is mounted.  

WARNING!!!  Running e2fsck on a mounted filesystem may cause
SEVERE filesystem damage.

Do you really want to continue (y/n)? yes

/dev/sda5: clean, 144821/2007040 files, 2078416/8006386 blocks


i appreciate the help lucho64...thanks for sticking with me.

---

### Post by lucho64 on 2008-09-04
Man, you are scaring me there ... you really want to umount the filesystem before you run the check, that's why I put the umount line before it.

Well, hoping we didn't cause more damage you could try once more, this time un-mounting the device before running the check, but add the -f flag to the check:

```

sudo umount /dev/sda5
sudo fsck.ext3 -f /dev/sda5

```

Make sure the filesystem is unmounted. If you get again the "WARNING!!! Running e2fsck on a mounted filesystem may cause SEVERE filesystem damage." you stop, tell it that no, you don't want to do it and unmount it.

In any case, could you download one of those utilities from the manufacturer's website to check your hard drive?

The only other suggestion I have is to change the "errors=remount-ro" to "errors=continue" on your fstab file, and keep good backups. Seriously.

---

### Post by r4wj4 on 2008-09-05
SOLVED...WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

so damn relieved. i remember running a command which would backup my fstab file and call it fstab.BAK...along the way i think i might have deleted the original file...so i went into /etc and looked for my fstab file and it was "fstab.BAK"...then went to my laptop which also has ubuntu and looked at its fstab and i noticed it was just a simple file called "fstab"...so i deletd the .BAK extension and i then rebooted my computer...running back up...things are back to normal...

learned my lesson never mess around without knowing how important the file actually is...

thanks lucho64 for all the help and putting up with my noobeness...

---

