---
title: "14.04 on Lenovo Flex 2-15D"
date: 2014-12-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jack_Pring on 2014-12-09
I'm trying to install Ubuntu 14.04 on my new laptop. I've tried the factory original UEFI settings and several modified UEFI settings as suggested on this site and on others.
I've tried ISO image from DVD (the image is too big for a CD). I've tried a DVD with the files unpacked from the ISO. The machine will not boot from DVD, although it will try to boot an old 12.04 CD before rebooting into a loop of read/reboot.
I tried installing the 12.04 CD using the option to help me boot from CD and the Win8 boot loader says a file is missing. I uninstalled the option.
I tried installing 14.04 and 12.04 from USB SD card. The machine will ask me if I want to try or install. I answered both ways and each time it did the same read/reboot loop as with the CD.
I even tried installing from 12.04 CD to USB using my desktop. That worked (I booted a second desktop using the USB SD card and it boots just fine), but the laptop insists on looping the same as with the installer image.
This laptop simply will NOT load Ubuntu by any method I can think to try. Any suggestions before I send this machine back to the cave from whence it came?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-12-09
How does 14.10 work?

---

### Post by Jack_Pring on 2014-12-09
I haven't tried 14.10, but after moving the HDD from the UEFI laptop to my BIOS desktop I was able to install 12.04.5 (for UEFI support) and it will boot on my BIOS desktop. After putting the HDD back into the UEFI laptop, it gives me fits.

In UEFI mode and secure boot disabled, it ignores Ubuntu and tries to repair Windows. In legacy mode I cannot access the secure boot option, and I get GRUB where I select Linux instead of Windows8 Restore, and it reboots and loops back to GRUB.

This is definitely a UEFI issue. I read something somewhere about adding a boot key to UEFI, but I have ZERO understanding of where to even start on that. It's times like this that I miss the simplicity of an 8086 and 5.25 floppies.

EDIT:
I put the 12.04.5 installer on my flash drive (formatted FAT) and booted the laptop on that. "unknown filesystem rescue grub>"
ls outputs (hd0) (hd0,msdos1) (hd1)
ls (hd 'foo')/ outputs "unknown filesystem" (foo is the variable, not literal)

EDIT 2:
Reformatted the flash drive as FAT and made it type EFI and bootable. Copied 14.04.1 and will try that next. (yes, I'm persistent. and tenacious.) Result: "This is not a bootable disc. Please insert a bootable floppy and try again."
FLOPPY?! This sounds like DOS.

BTW, the EFI is Phoenix SecureCore

EDIT 3:
Been [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick"), done that, played around with the many variations. Still rebooting without moving past GRUB. Even removed the factory original HDD and put in an empty HDD. I STILL get an option for the Windows bootloader, which is odd, because none of the hardware has been exposed to Micro$**t. So it HAS to be the EFI or EEPROM or something like that.

---

### Post by phereal on 2014-12-28
Hey there,

i bought myself a Lenovo Ideapad Flex 2 14D for Christmas, wantend to install Ubuntu 14.04 on it.

- via USB DVD Drive
- via Bootable USB Stick with Grub UEFI 64 Bit
- via Bootable USB Stick with Grub UEFI 32 Bit compiled from this source: [https://github.com/jfwells/linux-asus-t100ta/blob/master/boot/bootia32.efi](https://github.com/jfwells/linux-asus-t100ta/blob/master/boot/bootia32.efi)

As you mentioned i am getting in a rebooting loop, while Ubuntu is trying to load the live or the installation system.

I tried every UEFI combination to boot up from an installation medium (including even Windows 7) and failed:

- UEFI with Secure Boot enabled
- UEFI with Secure Boot disabled
- Legacy with UEFI first
- Legacy with Legacy first.

I bootet up with Acronis and backedUp every Partition on the disk. Next i did a reset in UEFI BIOS "Reset to Setup Mode" and "Restore Factory Keys" in belief this is the last option to get thinks done. I failed again, after the recovery process the Windows bootlader now tells me "Windows failed to start....".

So where to go from here now? I can't use this device with Ubuntu, i can't use it with Windows 7 and i can't use it with the pre installed Windows 8.1 after the recovery process while i wiped the UEFI etries.

I think i will get this sh*t together and put it in a package and sent it to where it came from......

EDIT1: My Qoutes

Maybe my Qoutes will help the next lucky guy, who will be confrontated with the nice "Phoenix SecureCore Technology Setup"

[http://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/How-do-I-install-Linux-Mint-17-from-USB-on-Flex-10/m-p/1597798#M6224](http://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/How-do-I-install-Linux-Mint-17-from-USB-on-Flex-10/m-p/1597798#M6224)
[https://github.com/jfwells/linux-asus-t100ta/blob/master/boot/bootia32.efi](https://github.com/jfwells/linux-asus-t100ta/blob/master/boot/bootia32.efi)
[http://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Flex-10-the-installation-of-Linux/td-p/1516596/page/2](http://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Flex-10-the-installation-of-Linux/td-p/1516596/page/2)
[http://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Installing-linux-via-usb-with-uefi-on-lenovo-flex-14/td-p/1376863](http://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Linux-Discussion/Installing-linux-via-usb-with-uefi-on-lenovo-flex-14/td-p/1376863)

EDIT2: Installation of Windows 7 Ultimate in Legacy Mode

I was able to install Windows 7 Ultimate while deleting all Partitions on de HDD and afterwards did !"NOT"! create any Partitions on the manual way. If you have deleted all Partitions then you have your RAW untouched Disk space, then click "next" to proceed with the installation! When I am done with installing the drivers, i will try to update the Bios and afterwards install Ubuntu as a dual boot system! I will then report my results...

---

