---
title: "18.04 LTS desktop system upset after last updates"
date: 2019-10-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by afrodeity on 2019-10-04
The updates yesterday made my system screwy:
[B]
1. System boots without bothering with Grub prompt[/B]

**2, Redis-server fails to start**
Failed to start Advanced key-value store, Unit redis-server.service has failed

[B]3. Terminal window has strange blocks instead of correct font title 
[/B]
Where can I see what was changed with the updates?

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-10-04
And apt-get -f install says nothing?

and here you go
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/14328/where-can-i-look-up-my-update-history](https://askubuntu.com/questions/14328/where-can-i-look-up-my-update-history)

---

### Post by afrodeity on 2019-10-04
Thanks

And for 1

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/16042/how-to-get-to-the-grub-menu-at-boot-time](https://askubuntu.com/questions/16042/how-to-get-to-the-grub-menu-at-boot-time)

---

### Post by afrodeity on 2019-10-04
starting redis-server in terminal got this help msg

> WARNING: The TCP backlog setting of 511 cannot be enforced because /proc/sys/net/core/somaxconn is set to the lower value of 128.
21330:M 04 Oct 11:07:00.486 # Server initialized
21330:M 04 Oct 11:07:00.486 # WARNING overcommit_memory is set to 0! Background save may fail under low memory condition. To fix this issue add 'vm.overcommit_memory = 1' to /etc/sysctl.conf and then reboot or run the command 'sysctl vm.overcommit_memory=1' for this to take effect.
21330:M 04 Oct 11:07:00.486 # WARNING you have Transparent Huge Pages (THP) support enabled in your kernel. This will create latency and memory usage issues with Redis. To fix this issue run the command 'echo never > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/enabled' as root, and add it to your /etc/rc.local in order to retain the setting after a reboot. Redis must be restarted after THP is disabled.

---

### Post by afrodeity on 2019-10-08
Fixing the redis-server issue turned out to be quite a journey, since I had /var/spool on tmpfs in my fstab I had to add the following to my /etc/rc.local before exit 0

```

for dir in atjobs atspool; do
 if [ ! -d /var/spool/cron/$dir ] ; then
    mkdir /var/spool/cron/$dir
 fi
done

chown daemon:daemon /var/spool/cron/atjobs$i
chmod 700 /var/spool/cron/atjobs$i
chown daemon:daemon /var/spool/cron/atspool$i
chmod 700 /var/spool/cron/atspool$i

```

---

