---
title: "10.10 Install"
date: 2011-03-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mbscad on 2011-03-25
Morning All,
I installed Ubuntu 10.10 last night from desktop-i386.iso and initially the install froze at the slideshow screen. I read the comments about using lower-case username and tried again from scratch this time selecting "use whole disk". My system is very old (900Mhz) and slow with only 256K memory and I found that if I stopped input at the "where are you screen" and let the files copy from CD to disk then the install went ok and Ubuntu 10.10 booted ok.
However, I then selected update manager which required 313Mb of downloads.
After update manager finished, the system booted and I then got the login-twice feature and the splash screen had no appelets on it, just a blank screen.
I have searched for solutions to this problem, to no avail.
I have been using Ubuntu for some time and most installs and upgrades have worked perfectly but, in my opinion 10.10 is not a good release.
My sytem will work (ie I can see the Applets again) if I select "safe-mode" at the second login screen but I don't know what functions are disabled in "safe-mode". My system uses on-board graphics and no proprietary graphics drivers are required (according to system search).
The Shutdown feature (applet) is broken again and just results in a black screen with CPU still running and keyboard flashing two leds to the right of "Num Lock".
I get the same result (unable to shutdown) from "Sudo Shutdown Now" in a terminal window.
I suspect that I am going to have to wait for the next kernal release before these featurettes are ironed out.

---

