---
title: "11.04 Freezing"
date: 2011-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by capemayal on 2011-05-09
11.04 Clean install from live CD
 
Not a dual-boot
 
Aus UL30A-X5
Intel Core Duo 64-bit CPU
4 gb ram
500 HDD
No DVD
Intel Mobile Series 4 Video
Atheros WLAN - N protocol.
Atheros Ethernet
 
ISP = Comcast cable Internet
Router = Netgear N600 Dual Band
Use either BT Mouse with BT Dongle OR USB Mouse
 
USB DVD Drive and media is recognized and useable
 
SD slot and Card not recognized
 
No AV or firewall.
 
No gaming
Wine installed. Quicken Installed.
 
Email - TBird or Evolution
Browser - FF or Chrome
Instant Messenger - Pidgin w/4 protocols
Screensaver - Not Used
 
Asus Hotkeys not active
12 Hour (spec's) Battery Life
 
11.04 Freezes, as did 10.10
 
Actions when freezing occurs:
 
Using Libre Office and more than 1 application, or any other combination of applications, 1 or more, but not more than 3 windows, either full screen or minimized, or less than full screen, on one workspace.
 
No particular application, but all applications.
 
Not using any graphcis applications at occurance.
 
Freezing may or maynot happen, but there is no warning when it does.
 
Alt-Tab does work, and may or maynot be able to use another application to enter into, but entry/text etc, is not saved.
 
Can move pointer using tab key, but has no affect on typing.
 
Sometimes possible to use power key to activate shut-down menu, and tab to shut-down, restart, etc, and they may or maynot work.
 
Final if the shut-down menu does not work is a force shut-down.
 
This also happened on 10.10 fresh install, or dual-boot, both on 32-bit system and 64-bit system.
 
Freezing issue on 10.10 made me decide to install 11.04.
 
Have tried:
 
Ubuntu video drivers and Intel drivers.
Atheros Ubuntu drivers not changed.
Edited Grub to acpi=off
Router with only both bands on, or 1 band - tried both seperately.
Also tried Linksys 54g router.
Usual Distance to router = less than 10 feet
 
Windows 7 Ultimate does not have the issue.
 
Any help appreciated.
 
Thanks,
Al

---

### Post by CoolJohnB on 2011-05-09
I had a similar problem and solved it by re-installing 11.04 64Bit, I did so without any internet connection, and completely erased the hard disk, so it was a completely fresh start.

Since doing that everything has worked better and I haven't had any problems done all the normal updates and everything is fine.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2011-05-09
I woudl start with a ram test, since this has occured over multiple versions. then I'd look at your video card driver.

when it freezes, does the mouse freeze too?

if you end up with a froozen system, you can usually gracefully reboot it by holding Alt + Printscrn and slowly typing 
```
r e i s u b
``` (if your HDD light comes on when you hit s, be sure to wait until it goes dark before proceeding to u).

will this work for your case, or is the kernel locked all the way to the hardware?

---

