---
title: ".img files"
date: 2006-03-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DarkAngel88 on 2006-03-06
Hi,

I'd like to know if there is a way to create a .img file ??  For example, I want to create a floppy disk img file containing all the files that I want to use in vmware.

Is there a easy tool to create some ?

Thanks !

---

### Post by radiazo on 2006-03-06
test *dd if=/dev/fd0 of=your.img* replace your with the name of preference.
\\:D/

---

### Post by DarkAngel88 on 2006-03-07
I tried it but it doesn't do what I expected...

I'm trying to create a file containing the structure of a floppy disk.  In windows, WinImage does the job fine creating one.  I'm looking for a equivalent tool under Linux.

I want to use this .img file to transfer files between Ubuntu and my MSDOS 5.0 vmware.

Thanks !!

---

### Post by DarkAngel88 on 2006-03-08
Anyone ?

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-03-08
The above command should do just that. As should "cat /dev/floppy > file.iso".

---

### Post by stoeptegel on 2006-03-08
Try this
$ dd if=/dev/fd0 of=bootdisk.img bs=512 count=2880

---

### Post by DarkAngel88 on 2006-03-08
I don't know what I'm doing wrong but here's the deal...

I'm running Ubuntu on my laptop, wich doesn't have a floppy drive.  I'm also working under MSDOS 5.0 on vmware do to some low level programming.  My only way of transfering files between ubuntu and msdos is via the virtual floppy drive that vmware creates.  Now, the format that vmware uses for it's floppy is the .img files.  

So I'm trying to transfer my files from one to the other via the floppy.  When I type the command "dd if=/home/darkangel88/Temp/disk of=bootdisk.img" I get the following : 

dd: reading `/home/darkangel88/Temp/disk': Is a directory
0+0 records in
0+0 records out
0 bytes transferred in 0.000328 seconds (0 bytes/sec)

There is a tool under windows, called Winimage, that does the job very well.. but.. I'm trying to be windows free !!

Thanks guys for your help but... I still need help !!

Thanks !

---

### Post by mr.p on 2006-03-09
[QUOTE=DarkAngel88]I don't know what I'm doing wrong but here's the deal...

I'm running Ubuntu on my laptop, wich doesn't have a floppy drive.  I'm also working under MSDOS 5.0 on vmware do to some low level programming.  My only way of transfering files between ubuntu and msdos is via the virtual floppy drive that vmware creates.  Now, the format that vmware uses for it's floppy is the .img files.  

So I'm trying to transfer my files from one to the other via the floppy.  When I type the command "dd if=/home/darkangel88/Temp/disk of=bootdisk.img" I get the following : 

dd: reading `/home/darkangel88/Temp/disk': Is a directory
0+0 records in
0+0 records out
0 bytes transferred in 0.000328 seconds (0 bytes/sec)

There is a tool under windows, called Winimage, that does the job very well.. but.. I'm trying to be windows free !!

Thanks guys for your help but... I still need help !!

Thanks ![/QUOTE]

From what I can see you want to create a directory full of files into a *.img file correct?

---

### Post by DarkAngel88 on 2006-03-09
Correct !

Excuse my bad english.. :S

---

### Post by Vytas on 2006-03-09
Ok, this might look a bit l33tish at first, but you can try it

let's create an empty image, make fs
```
dd if=/dev/zero of=floppy.img bs=512 count=2880
mkdosfs floppy.img
```

now, let's create a mountpoint and mount it
```
sudo mkdir /media/image
sudo mount -o loop floppy.img /media/image
```

the mounted image appears on the desktop, but you cant write to it
open nautilus in root mode or etc and copy some files
```
sudo nautilus /media/image
```

when you are finished
```
sudo umount -l /media/image
```

I hope this helps. if it does
**m3 == pr0** :p

---

### Post by DarkAngel88 on 2006-03-10
Works fine !

I think I was missing the "mkdosfs" command to create the file.

Thanks for your help Vytas !!

---

