---
title: "./configure error: GLIB &gt;= 1.2.2 not installed - please install first"
date: 2009-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by excbuntu on 2009-02-14
i'm trying to install xmms. the command, compiling it with the first command "./configure" gives me this error: "GLIB >= 1.2.2 not installed - please install first." that doesn't help a newb much. what and where can i find this glib program?

---

### Post by lloyd_b on 2009-02-14
You probably need to install the "development" package for glib.  In a terminal window: "sudo apt-get install libglib1.2-dev".  This may also automagically install a few other requirements.

Lloyd B.

---

### Post by adult swim on 2009-02-14
it means you need to have that package, at least version 1.2.2 installed for xmms to configure.  in your case the package you need may not be so obvious, but to get it you can run ```
sudo apt-get install libglib2.0-dev
``` and then try ./configure again

---

### Post by excbuntu on 2009-02-14
> **lloyd_b said:**
> You probably need to install the "development" package for glib.  In a terminal window: "sudo apt-get install libglib1.2-dev".  This may also automagically install a few other requirements.

Lloyd B.

woa. how did you know that it was the "development" package that i needed? and how did you know that it was the packaged specifically named "libglib1.2-dev?"

does this mean i have to go this forum and ask everytime i'm missing a dependency of some sort?

by the way, installing libglib2.0-dev did not work. but libglib1.2-dev did. but now i'm getting a similar error:

checking for gtk-config... no
checking for GTK - version >= 1.2.2... no
*** The gtk-config script installed by GTK could not be found
*** If GTK was installed in PREFIX, make sure PREFIX/bin is in
*** your path, or set the GTK_CONFIG environment variable to the
*** full path to gtk-config.
configure: error: *** GTK+ >= 1.2.2 not installed - please install first ***

i get a myriad of files in synaptic when filtering for "gtk" in the development section. how frustrating. i just want to install everything gtk and see if this works. 'won't do that of course. i need your help here too guys. thanks again.

---

### Post by jocko on 2009-02-14
> **excbuntu said:**
> 
```
configure: error: *** GTK+ >= 1.2.2 not installed - please install first ***
```i get a myriad of files in synaptic when filtering for "gtk" in the development section. how frustrating. i just want to install everything gtk and see if this works. 'won't do that of course. i need your help here too guys. thanks again.

You need to install **libgtk1.2-dev**. How to know which package to get?
To build something, you need development versions (names ending with "**-dev**") of the libraries the program you try to compile will use (names usually starting with "**lib**").
The error message tells you you need at least version **1.2.2**. There are two libgtk[xx]-dev packages: libgtk**1.2**-dev and libgtk**2.0**-dev. xmms is really old and was never converted to gtk version 2 (and will not compile with gtk 2), so you need the libgtk1.2-dev package.

But the important question is: WHY would anyone want to use xmms? It's hopelessly outdated.
If you want a light-weight (no nonse or silly database functionalities) player that is still actively developed, why not try audacious? It's based on beep media player, which in turn was based on the original xmms, so it looks pretty much the same as old xmms. And, it available through the repos:```

sudo apt-get install audacious
```Edit: If you really want to build xmms, here's the command to get the build-dependencies listed in the source package in the gutsy repo:
```
sudo apt-get install autotools-dev automake libtool gettext libasound2-dev libaudiofile-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglib1.2-dev libgtk1.2-dev libesd0-dev libice-dev libmikmod2-dev libogg-dev libsm-dev libvorbis-dev libx11-dev libxext-dev libxi-dev libxxf86vm-dev libxml-dev libssl-dev sharutils
```

---

### Post by excbuntu on 2009-02-14
^ you are the (wo?)man. that's the answer i was looking for. thank you. and as for why i wanted xmms was because i googled 'best mp3 player for linux' and read some good stuff about xmms but didn't know how outdated it was.

and yah, audiacious looks pretty much like the screenshots of xmms! thanks again! ;)

---

### Post by catalin.soare on 2011-02-04
If you look through the README file, in xmms src, you will find links to older versions of glib and gtk.
Get them from here:

[ftp://ftp.gtk.org/pub/gtk/v1.2/](ftp://ftp.gtk.org/pub/gtk/v1.2/)

Cheers!

---

### Post by upartizan on 2011-07-31
posted in wrong thread, sorry!

---

