---
title: "auto mount options for external NTFS?"
date: 2010-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nicoloks on 2010-01-31
Hi All,

Have a 1TB external USB hard drive I want to use on both Windows and Linux (Mythbuntu 9.10), so I thought the easiest way would be to format it with NTFS. Installed the NTFS-3G package and I'm able to read and write to the drive fine from Linux, however I have a few questions;

1) How do I configure Linux so that when it mounts the NTFS partition it is writeable for user, group and other (bascially I want everyone to have read and write access)? Currently when the NTFS disk is mounted the permissions are restricted to the user only and I suspect I'll need to edit fstab for this, but don't have much experience here so need help with the specifics.

2) If my Linux PC is turned on with the external drive attached, the disk is not mounted until I double click on the icon on the desktop. Is there anyway I can configure Linux so that it will automatically mount the external disk when booting?

Below is what is in my fstab file at present;

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc ro,auto,user,fmask=0111,dmask=0000 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=c44a07c1-6320-412b-b32d-b7628ac7e769 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=d130b244-a631-4d7c-8e1b-d647658ea08d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0



---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-01-31
(1) is easy , (2) is a catch-22 situation.

(1) Try this as a template:

Open **Terminal**
Type **sudo mkdir /media/External**
Type **sudo su**
Type **echo "UUID=DA9056C19056A3B3 /media/External ntfs user,umask=000,utf8,flush,noauto 0 0" >> /etc/fstab**
Turn on the external HD on and make sure it mounts to /media/External
The UUID number above is going to be unique to your specific hardware so to determine the correct value, make sure the drive is attached and turned on and then issue the following command: [B]sudo blkid

[/B]It should mount to /media/External with you as owner and with a umask=000 it should allow read / write access by everyone.

(2) The above command has the "noauto" option in it. What this will do is make sure that the usb drive is NOT mounted at boot but when called upon by double clicking the icon. Generally, this is what you want it to do because the usb drive may not be turned on when you boot and the instructions in fstab without the noauto option are only executed once. You can leave the "noauto" out of the fstab line but then you have to make sure that the usb drive is turned on before you boot.

---

### Post by nicoloks on 2010-02-01
Thanks for the reply Morbius1. I'm having trouble now where I can't mount the external drive at all. If I do a listing of /media/External I get nothing, and if I click on the icon on screen I get an error message now saying "You are not priviledged to mount the volume "Data"". Data is the volume label of the NTFS external drive, however I've not setup fstab to mount it as this so not sure what is happening here.

Here is my fstab file now;

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc ro,auto,user,fmask=0111,dmask=0000 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=c44a07c1-6320-412b-b32d-b7628ac7e769 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=d130b244-a631-4d7c-8e1b-d647658ea08d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
# Entry for external NTFS drive
UUID=2B424FE96E9354D7 /media/External ntfs user,umask=000,utf8,flush,noauto 0 0

Here is the output from the blkid command;

> /dev/sda1: UUID="c44a07c1-6320-412b-b32d-b7628ac7e769" TYPE="ext4"
/dev/sda5: UUID="d130b244-a631-4d7c-8e1b-d647658ea08d" TYPE="swap"
/dev/sdb1: UUID="2B424FE96E9354D7" LABEL="Data" TYPE="ntfs"

I've also set XFCE to NOT mount external storage devices when plugged in, though I've tried setting this on as well with no change in behaviour. Any ideas on what is going wrong here? Perhaps something I'm missing outside of fstab?

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-02-02
You're right, it doesn't work.

It does work for FAT32 because I'm using it now so I suspect it has to do with fuse or maybe ntfs-3g itself. Let me investigate this a little further.

Sorry about that. I should have tested it before posting. I just took my working FAT32 line and substituted ntfs - sloppiness on my part.

In case you haven't done so already , just put a # sign in front of that entry in fstab to disable the line and return yourself to the way it was.

---

### Post by mrkazoodle on 2010-02-02
```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```
Great tool, lets you mount internal and external partitions/drives and forget about it.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-02-02
Actually, if you make the following modifications it will work but ONLY if you have the external NTFS drive turned on before you boot:

Change this:
```
UUID=2B424FE96E9354D7 /media/External ntfs user,umask=000,utf8,flush,noauto 0 0
```To this:
> UUID=2B424FE96E9354D7 /media/External ntfs defaults,umask=000,utf8,flush 0 0This isn't much of a workaround though because as a normal user you wont be able to unmount it. So it becomes kind of hard to manage:

It must be turned on before booting.

It can only be turned off after the system shuts down which allows the system itself to unmount.

---

