---
title: "13.10 - unable to get the login screen - it's all black"
date: 2013-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AmitSinha on 2013-10-31
Hi All ,

I am relatively new to the Ubuntu Community . Yesterday I updated from Ubuntu 13.04 to Ubuntu 13.10 via the terminal with the command - "do-release-upgrade" . I was not able to upgrade via the Software Center.

It took 4 hours to upgrade , and then after a few hours something weird happened , and I am not able to get the login screen.It's all black.Nothing happens , though I can see the usual signal lights on the keyboard and the mouse.

I tried to go to the recovery mode while booting , and could see that all my data are safe. Please help me recover my data - they are very important and precious.

Thanks..

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2013-10-31
> **AmitSinha said:**
> Hi All ...I tried to go to the recovery mode while booting , and could see that all my data are safe. Please help me recover my data - they are very important and precious. Thanks..

There are several ways to get to the data and copy it elsewhere, but here is one using the live cd:

> Use the live media installer (usb, cd, dvd) that you have to retrieve data:

Start up the live session.
Open the file manager.
File manager should show the partition(s) on the hard disk in Places (side pane, right after Applications).
Click once on the partition in the Places list to mount.
Navigate to your home directory, and open it. 
Insert a flash drive - open it in a new window. 
Copy what you want from home window to the flash drive window. (This is possible as your directories normally have read and execute permissions set for anyone, and files have read permissions for anyone. If some don't you can fix permissions from the terminal.)


Sorry, have no advice on the failure to reach the login. There are lots of people here with expertise on that area who will better advise.

---

