---
title: "11.04 is running abnormally slow!"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-04-30
I am running a new computer with a 3-Core AMD Athlon II processor, 4GB of DDR3 RAM, an ATI Radeon HD 4250 graphics chip, and a 500 GB hard drive. I was running 10.10 for months and it ran just fine, and it ran fast! Now, I do a clean install of 11.04, and my system is running abnormally slow! The response times are slightly delayed, and whenever I use visual effects, the effects become "shaky" and don't perform how they are supposed to: Almost like watching something with a strobe light.
And yes, I am running the official proprietary drivers for my graphics chip.

Can anyone help me here? Where do I report this to?

---

### Post by ItsTrueMental on 2011-04-30
I too, am having this same issue. The OS in general just isn't as responsive. Simple tasks such as Alt+Tab to switch between application responds with an abnormal lag from Keyboard input -> to actual display. 

This behavior has only begun since installing the 11.04 update on yesterday from 10.10.This only happen s

Any Advice on this issue? Anyone...

---

### Post by Sanllian on 2011-04-30
Are you running Unity, and if so. Does this behavior still happen when you run Ubuntu classic sessions?

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2011-04-30
I'm having the same problem, but i think its something to do with fglrx & compiz.
 Try using Metacity instead of compiz, ive just done this and now my system flies. Problem is no visual effects.

---

### Post by yanekyuk on 2011-04-30
Same problem. This new version has been nothing but a trouble to me. I've spent hours to install it correctly and now it is slow. Forget about the visual effects, I feel like I'm playing a game with low frame rate when I am using Mozilla. I've tried the classic mode and nothing changed. I didn't like the Unity. It responds slowly, it shows up slowly... 

P.S. I have installed my graphics card driver.

---

### Post by regor210 on 2011-04-30
Did you check System Monitor > Resources to see that your not running on one CPU?

---

### Post by yanekyuk on 2011-04-30
Yes I've checked. All of my 4 cores running at about 5%-10% on firefox.

---

### Post by techie81 on 2011-04-30
I'm sure it has something to do with the AMD drivers. I have the same 4250 and have the same problems.

---

### Post by yanekyuk on 2011-04-30
I've tried completely stand-alone, or installed in windows and 32-bit,64-bit... But nothing changed. It just runs slow.

---

### Post by Schickles on 2011-04-30
I'm having a similar problem. Running any Program in Natty has been laggy and slow to respond. When I ran 10.10 everything was great, but after updating to Natty, no more. I tried to see if it was just Unity and tried using classic, but no avail, still quite laggy.

Specs:

CPU: AMD Phenom II 1090T (Hexa-core) Im running on all 6 cores, all peaking at 24% usage.

RAM: 4GB DDR3 Running at 35.1% with FireFox and Banshee open

Graphics: I'm running ATI Raedon 4250 which handled 10.10 perfectly.

I really enjoy 11.04, but if this can't be resolved, I'd like to know if their is a easy way to revert back to 10.10.

---

### Post by Sanllian on 2011-04-30
I'm running AMD Phenom X4 1.8GHz, 6GB DDR2, on NVidia GTX 460. I seem to be running fine. But sometimes it does getting a little slow for a minute. Maybe its the AMD support for Athlon processors?

---

### Post by yanekyuk on 2011-04-30
By the way, I am using an intel processor. Lagging problem is not about amd then.

I couldn't stand it and installed the 10.04 version.

---

### Post by epud on 2011-04-30
This is not a hardware issue I think. More of a driver problem. Have you made sure that you have the drivers installed for your graphics card?

---

### Post by Schickles on 2011-04-30
> **epud said:**
> This is not a hardware issue I think. More of a driver problem. Have you made sure that you have the drivers installed for your graphics card?

Yes, I have the proprietary Catalyst driver.

---

### Post by adhika on 2011-04-30
Yeap, I am also experiencing the same problem in classic and unity (worse).
It takes 1 sec or two to respond to Alt+Tab and some programs (e.g. Chrome) took a while to respond occasionally. 

I thought it was because I revert my NVidia driver to the older version v 173 that seems to work with the 11.04. But seems many of you guys are also experiencing the same problem with AMD.

---

### Post by J@n on 2011-05-01
Hi All,

I must admit that this is my first unpleasant experience with an Ubuntu upgrade. I could not get used to Unity (I have no touch screen nor a netbook) And tried to switch to classic Gnome.

But now the graphic performance is sluggish. At start-up the login screen  gets build layer for layer! You can actually see three layers being put over one another.

I have tried to boost performance by upgrading the FGLRX driver from AMD (currently 11.4). It installed just fine but it did not help.

I uninstalled Unity, added CCSM (but don't know what to change there) and completely re-installed all Compiz components. Unfortunately nothing changed.


Any help greatly appreciated

Greetz,

J@n

---

### Post by J@n on 2011-05-01
Never mind, I restored my latest 10.10 image to my system.

I will follow this thread in case somebody finds a solution. But 'till then I'll stay on 10.10

Greetz,

J@n

---

### Post by josephku on 2011-05-01
Have you tried running 11.04 from live cdrom or usb flash to see if the system is still slow?

---

### Post by J@n on 2011-05-01
> **josephku said:**
> Have you tried running 11.04 from live cdrom or usb flash to see if the system is still slow?

I will give it a try. I upgraded through Update Manager and did not download the Live CD.

Thanks for the tip:D

Greetz

J@n

---

### Post by Schickles on 2011-05-01
So this problem is proving to be a rather large hindrance well playing Minecraft, a game I used to get good FPS's in, I'm now down to 15-16 and it plays supremely sluggish. Is their anyway I can step back to 10.10 without having to back up my data and do a fresh install?

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-01
Remove Compiz and just rely on the Metacity window manager. You'll lose the compositing engine and eye candy but you will gain back the speed.

If you like Unity, 2D will run on it without need for accelerated graphics.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-01
11.04 works fine on my USB drive. It locks up when installed on my netbook hard drive.

I can't figure out why its smooth on the USB drive and doesn't behave accordingly on the computer.

---

### Post by flashwei on 2011-05-01
I have the same problems with HD4250. I guess it is the problem of the driver. It works just fine on my laptop with nVidia 8400m gs.

---

### Post by slinzex on 2011-05-01
Same problem happened to me. So I returned back to 10.10 on which I have perfect performance. 
Ubuntu 11.04 seems to be not fully stable...

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-05-01
> **Sanllian said:**
> Maybe its the AMD support for Athlon processors?
lol

---

### Post by BadboyXD on 2011-05-01
Yeah we should have stuck to the 10.10, 11.04 is slow on startup, sometimes have to wait a few seconds to open firefox. It has alot of problems all around, minimize certain programs and try to open them up again and it doesn't move just stuck. Certain things that worked on wine with the 10.10 don't work with 11.04 or work extremely slowly, switching to classic mode doesn't help this. Also at the beginning I could open 2 instances of nautilus file-manager, after an update now I can only open 1, so I can't move a file from window to window I actually have to navigate where I want to put the file from the same window. It's one of the most anoying things. Used to play this game Quake live which is a browser based game, after update to Unity tells me that it doesn't support my browser, which it does cause works fine with firefox 4. Hope they get these things fixed, where can I download the version 10.10 again? Would be nice if I could downgrade back to 10.10.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-01
Moral of the tale is when new features are introduced wait at least six months to a year for the bugs to be fixed and for it to mature. Its just terrible they rushed out a flawed release that is not up to usual Ubuntu standards.

Lucid runs rings around Natty in both performance and speed!

---

### Post by flashwei on 2011-05-01
It works much better after I removed the proprietary fglrx driver and installed the open source driver.  This page tells how to do so: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:%20%20Need%20to%20fully%20remove%20-fglrx%20and%20reinstall%20-ati%20from%20scratch](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:%20%20Need%20to%20fully%20remove%20-fglrx%20and%20reinstall%20-ati%20from%20scratch)

But at first I saw a black screen after installing the open source driver. Then I removed /etc/X11/xorg.conf and everything works fine after reboot!!!

I found there was a line in xorg.conf:
Driver      "fglrx"
I guess the system tried to load fglrx driver but failed since fglrx has already been removed. According to [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver) 
> No configuration is necessary for ATI driver in the modern versions of Ubuntu. You can safely take away your xorg.conf and your computer will run fine. 

---

### Post by BadboyXD on 2011-05-02
Seems like this version has gotten more timecpnsuming with the 1 instance of nautilus to work with, and the menu bar located way up top so you gotta click on the window you want the menu for and then go all the way up to the bar to do what you wanna do, thats just stupid lol.

---

### Post by BadboyXD on 2011-05-02
> **NormanFLinux said:**
> Moral of the tale is when new features are introduced wait at least six months to a year for the bugs to be fixed and for it to mature. Its just terrible they rushed out a flawed release that is not up to usual Ubuntu standards.

Lucid runs rings around Natty in both performance and speed!

Donno, 10.10 came out pretty quick didn't have any major problems with that one that I do with this one. It came out smooth and working awsomely lol

---

### Post by rejinarudo on 2011-05-02
> **NormanFLinux said:**
> Moral of the tale is when new features are introduced wait at least six months to a year for the bugs to be fixed and for it to mature. Its just terrible they rushed out a flawed release that is not up to usual Ubuntu standards.

Lucid runs rings around Natty in both performance and speed!

I totally agree to that.
We all know that Natty is a "major" jump in the Ubuntu timeline. From Gnome to Unity, blah to blah, and so on and so forth. So, we must adapt to this kind of situation, as we all know, not all new is good.

IMHO, Ubuntu is still in the "vista" stage. :p

---

### Post by jebus_beler on 2011-05-03
Just piping in that I have a similar problem with 11.04 and an nvidia gtx 560 so i don't think its an amd problem.  In fact I thought it was an nvidia problem until now. 

In my case the system runs very nice and fast for a while but after some time it suddenly gets very laggy.  Windows jerk visibly when being moved and even typing in a console can be slow and painful.  Nothing seems to resolve this except a reboot.  Even killing and restarting X doesn't seem to help (strangely).  Does this sound similar to what everyone else if noticing?  I've found one bug that seems related to this but I'm not sure its exactly the same thing:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/600178](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/600178)

Would people recommend downgrading to 10.10 or 10.04?

---

### Post by coyote2 on 2011-05-08
I have the slow boot up problem with 4G of ram with PAE kernel installed.

Removing a stick of 2G ram, miraculously solved that. It boots up as fast as 10.10 now. May be something to do with the PAE kernel?

I do not suffer any slow response problem with 11.04, whether it's on Intel GMA or nVidia 8200 or ATI 4250 onboard graphic.

---

### Post by jintermeister on 2011-05-09
I have found the same: 11.04 is a dog compared to 10.04.  I'm somewhat disappointed, as I have everything up and running and really do not want to invest in time to re-install the 10.04.

I installed 11.04 because it incorporates the new kernel with the performance patch. Umm, yeah, don't see the effects of that. I'm Using 32 bit due to flash problems with 64 bit. Flash is significantly better than in 10.04-64bit, but rest of system is slow, especially on startup. Just as reference though, I'm dual-booting XP, and Flash is better on XP.

Not using Unity. IMHO, Unity is a mistake. In my brief time using it, I found everything dumbed down and geared to a juvenile's wants. I couldn't find the terminal in 10 minutes, so I deemed it a poorer organized interface and ditched. Now using classic... still slower than previous versions.

My guess is that with subsequent updates things will improve. I hope startup time improves. It would be nice to realize the kernel patch's improvement in system performance. Also, for some reason Hulu desktop is incompatible and freezes the entire system (tried using Compiz and Metacity). Perhaps that will be resolved as well.

My system basics:
Asus AT3ion-i (Atom / Ion)
4GB mem, HDMI out, 11.04-32bit, Compiz

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2011-05-26
I had a 'forced upgrade' situation when my 10.04 hard drive locked up, so I installed 11.04-desktop-amd64 on my HP DV4-1200us.

Took a little to get used to Unity, but it's alright... took me some time to figure out how to build and put launchers on the bar and such.

The CD takes forever to boot, installation takes almost as long as a Windows install, but initially, everything ran okay.

But as time goes on, the machine gets slower and slower. I have 8GBs of RAM, for cryin' out loud, so I'm pretty sure it isn't a memory issue.  I have random lockups when playing Minecraft, a couple of unwarranted resets causing loss of data.  As I type this, there is terrible lag-- it takes a good twenty seconds for the text to catch up with my typing (I just counted).

So I guess I'll go back down.  Is 10.10 better, or should I stick to 10.04 until this junk is all straightened out?

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-05-28
Upgrade to 10.10. I am using it and it works perfectly

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2011-05-28
Meh.  I had 10.04 on disc already...

11.04 is still installed, so maybe take another crack at it in a couple months.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-28
> **linuxuser12345 said:**
> Upgrade to 10.10. I am using it and it works perfectly

That's exactly what I am using. Most of these users that are complaining about Ubuntu 11.04 and these issues, would solve them if they simply rolled it back to 10.10, in most cases. It's not that big of a deal to install Ubuntu anyways, and back it up. It takes what? The best of 30 minutes from start to finish, including data migration of your backups.  Besides, who wants to work on a beta system? I want the one that has been tested the most and is also the most recent. But it doesn't have to always been the most cutting-edge version of Ubuntu to make me happy. If these other users wish to be developers for each new release, fine but why complain that things take time to figure out? I don't get it.

---

### Post by Horibal on 2011-08-15
Has there been any changes with this issue?  This is the first time I've seen Ubuntu run slower than Windows.  Should I dial back to 10.43?  Is there an easy way to do this w/o reinstalling?

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-08-15
If it is running slow for you, you can try Unity 2D or Classic mode in 11.04, or you can dial back to 10.04.3 or 10.10. I think that Canonical needs to put Ubuntu through serious rigorous beta testing before releasing a new version officially. It seems that when a new version of Ubuntu comes out, it is so glitchy and messed up that it turns people off. This needs to be fixed

---

### Post by kd4hey on 2011-08-15
I also noticed a BIG difference between 10.10 & 11.04, & then switched back to Classic hoping it would make the difference.  It didn't.

I'm running a Dell Inpiron 1521
Intel Duo Core 2 (T7300 @ 2.00 Ghz)
with 4.0 GB of Ram

Both Cores show between 15 - 20% usage with peaks to 75%.

I hope 11.10 will be better!

---

### Post by richardh9936 on 2011-08-16
Can we escalate this problem?  My system just turns into a zombie.  Even nautilus -q doesn't work.  It's as though someone else has taken all the resources.  Then only culprit I can find is xorg.

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2011-08-16
DO you have Ubuntu One on?  That sucker took what little volition was left to my computer.

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2011-08-17
1st thing I do is disable, bluetooth, ubuntu one & visual assistance, from startup. My 11.04 flies now.
Has anyone tried running Htop to see what is using all the cpu?

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-08-17
Had all the same problems awhile back but there all gone now.
My distro is based on natty 11.04. (and I was using straight ubuntu 11.04 before this os).
It's related to 4 main areas.
Window manager (ie/compiz/metacity)
3D effects
Video drivers.
OpenGL

Some posts that I have made re/ these issues:

[http://my.opera.com/internetsecurity/forums/topic.dml?id=1073222](http://my.opera.com/internetsecurity/forums/topic.dml?id=1073222)

[http://peppermintos.net/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=3733](http://peppermintos.net/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=3733)

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-08-17
Try uninstalling your AMD/ATI drivers. This should fix the problem: It did for me.

---

### Post by simo4 on 2011-08-20
I have this problem for two weeks. Before my ubuntu natty was fine. I tried everything but nothing... after 10-15 minutes (with ff opened) Xorg begins to use 80-90% of CPU... I don't find the reason :(

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-08-21
I have the same problem when I try to enter into KDE Plasma!!! :O
I posted a thread and no one seemed to know the problem! :(

---

### Post by tlue on 2011-09-07
may you hit this bug?
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/737454](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/737454)

or have a look here?
[http://forum.kde.org/viewtopic.php?f=66&t=94861](http://forum.kde.org/viewtopic.php?f=66&t=94861)

---

