---
title: "Noob needs big help!"
date: 2007-08-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by malefactorprophet on 2007-08-17
OK, wish there was someone here to smack me in the back of the head.

I was trying to set up beryl when I think I loaded an incompatible video driver. Now when I boot up I get a bunch of stuff about it can't start the x server. No Gnome! All I get is terminal.

How can i fix this? Right now I am booted in with a Xubuntu Live disk. I was running 7.04.

I was going to recover the few files I have on it but I can't copy them to the external. It says there is no permissions.

I'd rather just fix it, but if I can't can someone help me gt my files off so i can reload.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-17
At the CLI:

```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```
You can probably go with the default for most screens, but select "vesa" for your video driver.

Then:
```

startx

```
or reboot.

This should at least get you to a GUI, then you can search how to install the correct video drivers for your card.

-merlin

---

### Post by malefactorprophet on 2007-08-17
One other thing, is there a way to find a list of programs I have added to the install?

---

### Post by malefactorprophet on 2007-08-17
Thanks, I'll go give it a shot and if there is trouble I will be back.

---

### Post by malefactorprophet on 2007-08-17
Thanks, that worked perfectly, but I guess you had no worries.

Is there anything else I need to do or am I back where I started, and just need to do it right this time?

Thanks again!

---

### Post by malefactorprophet on 2007-08-17
The whole copying file to the external. It still won't let me. It says the permissions are for root only. I can copy off of it but not onto it.

What can I do?

Thanks

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-17
Glad it worked for you.  Try to find and install the correct drivers for your video card, and it will give better performance.

vesa is a catch-all works-with-most-everything generic video driver.

Good luck!

-merlin

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-17
> **malefactorprophet said:**
> The whole copying file to the external. It still won't let me. It says the permissions are for root only. I can copy off of it but not onto it.


What filesystem does the external use?

Also, post output of:

```

sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab

```

-merlin

---

### Post by malefactorprophet on 2007-08-18
It is NTFS and here is the output:

Disk /dev/hda: 20.0 GB, 20003880960 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 2432 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        2339    18787986   83  Linux
/dev/hda2            2340        2432      747022+   5  Extended
/dev/hda5            2340        2432      746991   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40060403712 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4870 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        4870    39118243+   7  HPFS/NTFS
malefactor@Harbinger:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=fb59c094-6901-48a1-8fb8-5f7a94493e99 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=4ce78524-a2e6-4e3e-90bf-6e9639102c97 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
malefactor@Harbinger:~$

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-18
```

sudo apt-get install ntfs-config

```then

```

sudo ntfs-config

```Tick the appropriate boxes, and restart.

Also make sure appropriate boxes are ticked in System/Preferences/Removable Drives and Media.

Then post /etc/fstab again.

-merlin

---

### Post by Mogurijin on 2007-08-18
By default NTFS is read-only. However, do what merlinus suggests, it works great. Lets you write to NTFS partitions ^^

---

### Post by malefactorprophet on 2007-08-18
Ok I did what you instructed. I get and error saying it needs to be properly stopped or use ntfsfix on it. but here is the results yo ask for.


malefactor@Harbinger:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=fb59c094-6901-48a1-8fb8-5f7a94493e99 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=4ce78524-a2e6-4e3e-90bf-6e9639102c97 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
malefactor@Harbinger:~$

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-18
Boot into windows and run chkdsk <driveletter:> /f on it.

Then boot into ubuntu and run ntfs-config again.

-merlin

---

### Post by malefactorprophet on 2007-08-18
Ok, but I not running a dual boot system. I can put it on another box and run check disk. Will that work?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-18
Yes, as long as it has some version of windows.

the /f parameter will try to fix errors, if any.

-merlin

---

### Post by malefactorprophet on 2007-08-18
In windows I kept getting an access denied error. All I had on it was some wallpapers so I reformatted it and the brought back to my ubuntu machine and did the ntfs config again and now it works.

What is you best guess at what was mucking up the system?

Thanks for your help through all this. I am going to add it all to my wiki in case I need it again.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-18
Maybe files that were somehow corrupted and/or in the wrong format for windows.

Anyway, very glad to hear the problem is resolved.

-merlin

---

