---
title: "16.04 upgrade screen resolution"
date: 2016-08-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jgw on 2016-08-03
I just upgraded to 16.04  my screen resolution is 640x480 (screen is about 40% too big.  I ran "xrandr -d :0 -q" and got:
xrandr: failed to get size of gamma for output default
screen 0: minimum 640x480, current 640x480, maximum 640x480
default connected primary 640x480+0+0 0mmx0mm
640x480  73.00*

My problem is that the output is so large I cannot read most of the screen.  The output is to my tv (I could read the screen from 50 ft away without glasses!!)

Thoughts?

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2016-08-03
Did you have Nvidia Drivers still installed?

---

### Post by jgw on 2016-08-03
Thank you for the reply.

I did not.  I have an nvidia geforce gt 440 on this machine.  I checked and the proper driver is supposed to be 358.16 
I tried to install with the following commands (found on the net):

wget -c [http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/358.16/NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-358.16.run](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/358.16/NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-358.16.run)
sudo chmod +x NVIDIA-Linux-*-358.16.run
 sudo /etc/init.d/lightdm stop  (this one got stuck and hung so I stopped it, reran it and it told me it competed and it was stopped,  and moved onto:)
 sudo /etc/init.d/mdm stop

sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-*-358.16.run  which was supposed to install.  

It didn't, so I ran lspci -nnk | grfep -i vga -A3 which got me:
vga compatible contgroller [0300]: NVIDIA corporation gf108 [geforce gt 440] [10de:0de0] (rev a1)
subsystem: nvidia corporation gf108 [geforce gt 440] [10dwe:0828]
kernel modules: nvidiafb, nouveau 01:00.1 audio device [0403]: nvidia corporation gf 108 high definition audo controller [10de:0bea] (rev a1)
(driver line not there)

This is a bugger because the current resolution lets me see only stuff in the terminal because it wraps and nothing else either wraps or scrolls.  The first thing I really need to do is get the resolution under control.  Forgive my typing.  I am using a laptop and I makes mistakes.

I just checked stuff again and found that the NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-358.16.run file was empty.  I ran the wget again and paid attention.  I got: "segmentation fault (cor dumped)" and it did put the file in my home but it has nothing in it.  I went to the nvidia site and downloaded the one they say is the one which is 367.35  I then did a chmod and stopped x.  Then I tried to install and may, or may not, have been successful (still re-booting)

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2016-08-03
Well it is not really recommended to install Nvidia Drivers that way..unless you like to get down and dirty with updates (Especially Kernel Updates) as they roll in.
My only Advice here is to open this:
```
software-properties-gtk
```
it will launch Software & Updates window, the last tab on that window is the Additional Drivers tab.
Pick the Driver it Recomends.
But just to make sure we get a clean install make sure there is no residual junk left by
```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia* 
``` 
And Reboot before installing the Driver the way I show at the first of my post.
And you type just fine on that laptop..he he he I struggle with the laptop keyboard too:(

---

### Post by jgw on 2016-08-04
runrickus;
I did as you suggested and it worked!  I now have the machine back up and running.  My problem, and why I was trying to stick with the terminal is because I could actually read what was there.  The other way was pretty much impossible.  Anyway, it worked great! (I will add that series to my notes just in case it happens again <G>

I also want to thank you for "software-properties-gtk" just because.  That one will save me time down the line just getting there <G>

Thanks again!

---

