---
title: "Help.. Just deleted my path file"
date: 2009-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 1ronlung on 2009-09-01
Hi.

Was just trying to update my path file and did a 
"export PATH=$DEVKITPRO/devkitPPC/bin" >> $HOME/.bashrc"

instead of a :

export PATH=$PATH:$DEVKITPRO/devkitPPC/bin" >> $HOME/.bashrc


I have already done a source $HOME/.bashrc

Is there any way to reverse ?

Thanks,
ironlung

---

### Post by denver on 2009-09-01
You can get a default .bashrc by typing:

```
cp /etc/skel/.bashrc ~/.bashrc
```

On a side note, nether one of those command should have worked :). "export" is a BASH builtin that just exports a variable. The double redirect (>>) at the end of the line means "append the output (STDOUT) of command to file". In other words, what is generated by the first command (in this case "export") should be added to the end of the file $HOME/.bashrc .

But as i said, export has no output, it just exports an environment variable. Maybe you wanted something allong the lines of:

```
 echo "export PATH=$PATH:~/devkitPPC/bin" >> $HOME/.bashrc
```

In any case, you may restore your bashrc from the skel directory, or just edit the bashrc in your home and remove the appended line.

Sourcing the .bashrc file applies those settings only for the current running terminal.

Good luck!

---

### Post by falconindy on 2009-09-01
> **denver said:**
> edit the bashrc in your home and remove the appended line.
Second this.

All you did was append a line to your .bashrc that overwrites the previously defined $PATH. Removing this line and starting a new shell session will fix it.

---

### Post by 1ronlung on 2009-09-01
Phew.. Deleted the last appended line from my .bash and all appears well again :)

Thanks for your speedy response!

ironlung

---

