---
title: "[SOLVED] Twin View and Maximization."
date: 2008-08-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tindytim on 2008-08-12
Recently got a 9800GTX, and manually installed the latest x64 drivers. I enabled Twin View using Nvidia X Server and it's been working great. My only issue is the maximize button.

If you've used windows with multiple monitors when you press Maximize it doesn't go into both windows. Based on which window you've pressed maximize in, it maximizes in that window as if that monitor is the only one.

I want to emulate that in Ubuntu, maybe even a fouth button (for maximizing through both windows, ATI had a little mod for XP that added one).

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-08-12
> **Tindytim said:**
> Recently got a 9800GTX, and manually installed the latest x64 drivers. I enabled Twin View using Nvidia X Server and it's been working great. My only issue is the maximize button.

Being a Windows user I'm accustom to maximizing a window within a single monitor (with a dual set up). How can I get Twin View to do this?

Hi and you may look here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=859042](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=859042)

---

### Post by Tindytim on 2008-08-12
I have the opposite problem.

I want a window to stay in the monitor I pressed maximize in. Not go into both monitors. So it would maximize as if there was only one monitor.

---

### Post by Tindytim on 2008-08-14
Nothing?

If you've used windows when you press Maximize it doesn't go into both windows. Based on which window you've pressed maximize in, it maximizes in that window as if that monitor is the only one.

I want to emulate that in Ubuntu, maybe even a fouth button (for maximizing through both windows, ATI had a little mod for XP that added one).

---

### Post by Tindytim on 2008-08-15
Well I solved my own Issue. I can now move a window between monitors and what ever monitor I press maximize in, and maximizes in that monitor and only that monitor.

I do seem to have a bit of a performance hit though (I am running 2 X's and Xinerama), is there anyway to increase performance? I'll post my xorg.conf file if anyone is interested.

EDiT:And blender doesn't seem to react well in fullscreen mode, but the windowed mode works fine.

---

### Post by Ned490 on 2008-08-18
> **Tindytim said:**
>  I'll post my xorg.conf file if anyone is interested.


Yes, please do TT.

Ned

---

### Post by Tindytim on 2008-08-19
Oddly enough, I seem to have the Maximization thing working great with Twin View (single instance of X) with no performance hitch. Here is my xorg file
```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Thu Jul 17 18:39:42 PDT 2008

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Thu Jul 17 18:39:00 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "WDE L2410NM"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9800 GTX"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
# Removed Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-1"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```
I have 2 monitors of different size/resolution. Also installed the proprietary drivers.

***_[COLOR="Red"]I got this working by downloading the Nvidia drivers from the site and installing them manually (I'll show how I did that at the bottom).[/COLOR]_***

I then turned on the Separate instances of X (Using Nvida X Server Settings, which are installed with the Drivers Automatically). How ever in order for that to work you need to open it within the console by typing:
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```
This can by typed in any directory. Then apply and save the settings to your Xorg file. Restart, then apply Twin-View again (using "sudo nvidia-settings") then Restart. **It may work if you just apply Twin-View with "sudo nvidia-settings" at first, then restart. (might as well try it first).**.

**_And now for installing the Nvidia Drivers manually:_**
***1.)*** Download the Nvidia Drivers to your Desktop

***2.)*** Press Crtl+Alt+F1. This will take you out of the GUI (not sure on the specifics).

***3.)*** Now type in:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```Which will shutdown the **G**nome **D**isplay **M**anager (and consequently X). The Nvidia Drivers don't install unless X isn't running.

***4.)*** Now to get to the Drivers. Type:
```
cd Desktop
```cd is the command to **c**hange **d**irectory (which works in DOS). In this case, you go from the home directory to the Desktop directory within the home directory (where the terminal normally starts). Your command line should now say something like
```
[user]@[computer]:~/Desktop$
```Where [user] and [computer] are the names of the user and computer respectively.

***5.)*** Now simply type
```
dir
```
Which stands for **dir**ectory (also works in DOS), and lists all the files and directories within the directory you're in. From there is should be easy to type in the file name of the driver.

***6.)*** as the Nvidia site says:
```
sudo sh [Driver]
```
Where [Driver] is the driver name (I had "NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-173.14.12-pkg2.run" so expect something similar).

From there I was told that the Driver couldn't find any pre-existing compatible driver (or something like that) and said it would compile one on the spot. It's been working great!!!

**_Lib-c Header Files_**
I got an error about this and freaked. The Solution was as simple as typing:
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```
into the terminal.

---

### Post by jimendeath on 2008-08-27
Hi !!

I have the same problem than you. I'm running ubuntu 8.04 (x86) with GeForce Go 7300. I have installed NVIDIA Driver Verison 169.12 and I cannot be able to configure my two screens as you've explained. 

At the XServer Display Conf section I have selected TwinView. I would like also select diferents resolutions for each screen but when I've done it I always lose part of the screen at the less resolution screen.

Thanx in advance
[[IMG]http://img183.imageshack.us/img183/8435/nvidiadispconfmu8.th.jpg[/IMG]]("http://img183.imageshack.us/my.php?image=nvidiadispconfmu8.jpg")

---

### Post by Tindytim on 2008-08-27
Does it say that some features cannot be applied when you try to switch to separate X screens? That thumbnail doesn't appear to work.

If that is the case I applied it anyway, then restarted X (after saving to xorg.conf). I reapplied Twin View, and restarted X (again, after saving to xorg.conf)

But A few things seems odd.
One, I cannot find Linux Drivers for your Card (Go 7300).
Two, the Nvidia driver site doesn't seem to have an Go 7300 option at all. 
And Three,> NVIDIA has worked with some notebook manufacturers to provide notebook-specific driver updates, however, most notebook driver updates must come from the notebook manufacturer. Additionally, the desktop GeForce graphics drivers will not install on Geforce M series and Quadro M series notebook GPU's.

I would like to mention that I am a Noob when it comes to Ubuntu. This may just work for me on my specific system. If it doesn't work I probably won't be able to help you any further.

---

### Post by jimendeath on 2008-08-27
No problem, THANX anyway Tindytim

I have solved !!

Both screens have "Position": Absolute, the right side one, also have +1280+0 at the text box besides "position", 1280 is the first number of the resolution of the left-side screen.

[[IMG]http://img148.imageshack.us/img148/517/nvidiaxserversettingsvt3.th.png[/IMG]](http://img148.imageshack.us/my.php?image=nvidiaxserversettingsvt3.png)

And I also have different resolutions in each screen.

:guitar:

Greets

PS: Now the thumbnails of my posts work. Sorry, I had messed up it

---

