---
title: "10.10 boot up - all I get is a terminal"
date: 2011-02-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by whiffy badger on 2011-02-15
I've been using 10.10 for many months without incident but now all the sudden, once I boot up, I type in my login and then all I get is a terminal come up on the screen, the GUI has vanished.  Could anyone suggest what I could do to fix this.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-02-15
Have you upgraded anything recently (new kernel? if so try the previous kernel to rule that out) and what graphics card do you have? if it's nvidia or something like that you will need to reinstall the drivers.

---

### Post by whiffy badger on 2011-02-15
Thanks for your reply!

I do use update manager to update very regularly, I am not clear if this has installed a new kernel which may be causing this, could you please explain how I can roll back to an earlier kernel from the terminal?   

I have an ATI HD 4850 graphics card, is there a universal ATI linux driver or are there different versions of ATI linux driver?  Any idea What is the command for re-installing such a driver.

Unfortunately I am not familiar with getting things done on the terminal.

Many thanks!

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-02-15
If your dual booting you can just choose the previous kernel, which should be the third option on the list when your given the option of which os to boot. If not you need to press shift at boot to enter the 'grub' menu to choose the previous kernel.
 
When you get dumped into a terminal you could try typing
```

start x

```
 
post any errors you get (if any).
 
Also you can get some information about whats going wrong by typing ```
dmesg
``` it will be quite a long list because this is the log made by the kernel on all boot info, so an option would be to do ```
 dmesg | tail
``` which will return just the last bits of the log, or if nothing relevant is returned (ie no warnings or errors```
dmesg >> log.txt 
```This will output the dmesg to a text file called log.txt.
 
If you do ```
nano log.txt
``` you will be better able to scroll through and find any relevant error messages. Look for anything to do with x.server. Or just post any messages you think might help (or google them - I usually search by doing whatever the error is ubuntu, to return ubuntu speific info)

---

