---
title: "Is There Any Way to Display Local Temperature as Screensaver?"
date: 2018-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rebeltaz on 2018-11-27
I have xscreensaver installed running gltext to display date and time as a screensaver. I have the Weather Report panel app installed to display local temperature in the system tray. Is there anyway to display the local temperature along with the date and time in the screensaver?

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2018-11-27
gltext only gives you the choice between "date and time" and "system information". fontglide and starwars (there might be others, but I know about these for certain ...) will display any text, including text generated by an external program.  Install the package ansiweather, write a small script like this (replace "Paris,FR" with the name of a place of interest and the right country code)
```
ansiweather -l Paris,FR -a false|sed 's/ - /\n/g'
```save it as a file, make that file executable and set it as the source of text to display in xscreensaver-demo.

Holger

---

### Post by rebeltaz on 2018-11-27
Awesome! Thank you!

...but ... any way to get it to still display the date and time too?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2018-11-28
> **rebeltaz said:**
> any way to get it to still display the date and time too?

The date can be displayed with ```
date +%x
``` and the time can be displayed with ```
date +%X
```

There are many other output formats, too.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2018-11-28
Just put a call to the 'date' command in the script. An 'echo' to output an empty line at the end of the weather report might be nice, too.
```

#!/bin/bash

# shell script for xscreensaver

# Everything after the '+' is a format description for date; for details  on possible formats see 'man date' or "info '(coreutils) date  invocation'"
date +"%A, %d. %B %Y%n%T"
# '-l' = Location, -a use ANSI colour control sequences; the 'sed'  splits the one-line weather report into multiple lines on ' - '
ansiweather -l Berlin,DE -a false|sed 's/ - /\n/g'
# an empty line as separator
echo

```
This is of course a waste of resources since it asks for a new weather report every second or so. A better solution would be setting up a crontab entry to get the weather every 5 minutes, write it to a file and then 'cat' that file in the script. Enter 'crontab -e' in a terminal to edit (or create) your crontab and enter this line (remember to set the correct location ...):
```

0-59/5 * * * * /usr/bin/ansiweather -a false -l "Paris,FR"|sed "s/ - /\n/g" >/tmp/weather-report

```
then save and exit the editor. Now replace the complete 'ansiweather' line in the script with 'cat /tmp/weather-report'. 

Holger

---

### Post by rebeltaz on 2018-11-28
Thank you all so much!

---

