---
title: "&quot;Device Not Found&quot; Boot Issue. GRUB on SSD and HDD. Each reboot, only one will boot.."
date: 2013-07-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joshc133 on 2013-07-12
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Sans]I'm going to _try_ to make this as simple as possible. Thanks everyone. 

My PC (I think this is all that is necessary for this issue):
UEFI mobo
120GB SSD: Windows 7 OS
3TB HDD: Ubuntu 13.04 and Windows 7 "User" folder

I made all the correct partitions and whatnot, but after the initial reboot, I could not boot into Ubuntu (Tried to load GRUB from both SSD and HDD). I googled around and decided to boot into the LIVE CD and run _boot-repair_ to fix my boot issues. It told me that it would _completely uninstall any instances of GRUB on my SSD and HDD, and then put a copy of GRUB onto both drives_. After running boot-repair and rebooting, I was able to boot into Ubuntu. I restarted the computer and attempted to boot into Windows 7, but after choosing it from the GRUB menu, it said "device not found".

So here is where I am at now... 

1.   Boot from HDD into GRUB. (Launching either OS works fine here.)
2.   Use my PC normally on either OS.
3.   Reboot from HDD.
4.   Get "device not found" error before GRUB loads, or after I choose Windows 7 from the GRUB menu.
5.   Set default boot device to SSD.
6.   Boots from SSD into GRUB (Launching either OS works fine here.)
7.   Use my PC normally on either OS.
8.   Reboot from SSD.
9. [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Sans]  Get "device not found" error before GRUB loads, or after I choose Windows 7 from the GRUB menu.[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Sans]
10. Set default boot device to HDD.
11. Wash, rinse, repeat.

I am not sure what is going on here. I am guessing that somehow the two instances of GRUB are interacting with each other, but I can always boot from one disk or the other. If I get "device not found" error, I simply boot from the other disk, and it boots just fine into either OS. One disk always boots, it just changes each boot. 

I am guessing the issue involves one or both of the following (pretty much the same thing, just tossing ideas around for the more experienced):
1. What boot-repair did to "repair the boot".
2. Dual instance of GRUB (one on the SSD and one on the HDD) interacting with each other.

Any help would be greatly appreciated. If you have any more questions, please feel free to ask. Thanks.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-07-13
IS Windows 7 installed in UEFI Mode or 'legacy mode'?
Can you share the 'BootInfo Summary' which Boot Repair created?

From Ubuntu post the output of the following command (not needed if you post your 'boot info summary):

```
sudo parted -l
```

Without this info it will be difficult to find out what is going on...

---

### Post by joshc133 on 2013-07-13
I am assuming Windows 7 is installed in "legacy" mode since the partition table on the SSD is MSDOS, instead of GPT.
Sorry,  after I was successfully able to boot into Ubuntu, I "misplaced" the  URL of the boot-info summary generated by boot-repair.

Here is the output of the command:
> 
Model: ATA OCZ-AGILITY3 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 120GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos

Number  Start   End    Size   Type     File system  Flags
 1      1049kB  106MB  105MB  primary  ntfs         boot
 2      106MB   120GB  120GB  primary  ntfs


Model: ATA ST2000DM001-9YN1 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdb: 2000GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: msdos

Number  Start   End     Size    Type      File system     Flags
 1      1049kB  1464GB  1464GB  primary   ntfs            boot
 2      1464GB  2000GB  537GB   extended
 5      1464GB  1968GB  504GB   logical   ext4
 6      1968GB  2000GB  32.8GB  logical   linux-swap(v1)


Model: WD My Book 1140 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdc: 3001GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name                          Flags
 1      17.4kB  134MB   134MB                Microsoft reserved partition  msftres
 2      135MB   3001GB  3000GB  ntfs         Basic data partition


---

### Post by fantab on 2013-07-14
First of all, you have legacy boot. Both your SSD on which you have Windows and HDD where you have Ubuntu have 'msdos' table, as you can see. So you don't have UEFI boot.

Importantly, you DON'T need to have GRUB on both Drives. Ideally, since you have Windows and Ubuntu on separate drives, it will a good idea to install GRUB on the UBUNTU Drive, in your case HDD. However, if you do this then you will have to change the HDD boot Priority in BIOS to boot HDD first. This way your GRUB will boot first and offer you a choice to load either Ubuntu or Windows.

If you install GRUB on SSD, then it will overwrite Windows boot files in SSD MBR, meaning without GRUB and Ubuntu you cannot boot Windows.

What you can do? 
1) You can remove Grub from SSD and keep the one you have on HDD. To do this you will have to [*Fix the Windows MBR*]("http://www.sevenforums.com/tutorials/20864-mbr-restore-windows-7-master-boot-record.html"). Then Boot into Ubuntu and run:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure grub-pc
```
Just follow the simple instructions and install GRUB on HDD. Don't forget to make the HDD your first Boot Device.

2) You can install both Windows and Ubuntu on the SSD (for faster boot time) and install Grub on SSD.
30gb partition is plenty for Ubuntu '/' partition. You have this partition on SSD and more partition if you need on HDD, But SSD will be your main boot disk.

---

### Post by joshc133 on 2013-07-15
After repairing the Windows MBR on the SSD, all my issues magically vanished. 
I don't think anything else needs to be done at this point. 

As  for the suggestion on installing Ubuntu to the SSD, I would have done  that, but I am limited on space on my SSD, and do not mind slower boot  time on Ubuntu, as it is not my primary OS.

I would like to thank you for your help. Thanks much.

---

