---
title: "9.04 no microphone"
date: 2010-03-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by anatak on 2010-03-06
Hello I am using Ubuntu 9.04 but I can not get my microphone to work.
I installed pulsaudio but whatever I do I can't get anything out of my microphone.
I wanted to use it for skype.

all help very much appreciated.

I tried this
[http://blog.mageprojects.com/2009/03/24/get-your-microphone-working-in-ubuntu-904-and-skype-x64/](http://blog.mageprojects.com/2009/03/24/get-your-microphone-working-in-ubuntu-904-and-skype-x64/)
but no joy

I can hear myself but I can not use the microphone in skype or in sound recorder.

anatak

edit: I can't open pulseaudio device chooser anymore.
I also have the impression that when I record something with sound recorder or skype that the system uses the build in microphone.

---

### Post by Intrepid Ibex on 2010-03-06
This will probably not help at all but did you try out with Karmic? Maybe somebody else can be of assistance to you with this.

The only other thing I can ask from you is to make sure you did everything mentioned in that guide.. :/

---

### Post by lyall on 2010-03-06
have you check the sound setting?
System > Preferences > Sound

click on the Input tab
check to see if Mute is checked

good luck and have fun learning

---

### Post by agnes on 2010-03-06
I had sort of the same problem yesterday (microphone not working in Skype). 
Skype uses PulseAudio so you need to install the program 'pavucontrol'.
Run it and select the correct Input Device, or unmute it if already selected.

---

### Post by anatak on 2010-03-06
I installed 9.10 on a friends laptop and skype worked out of the box there so I am going first to try to upgrade and if that doesn't work I ll do a fresh install.

I didn't want to upgrade to/ install 9.10 because I have a LAMP environment set up but I guess I don't have a lot of choice and if I could made LAMP work in 9.04 (with the help of this forum) I guess I can make it also work in 9.10

I ll probable will be back with some LAMP related questions soon :o

---

### Post by anatak on 2010-03-07
solved by doing a fresh 9.10 install and getting the skype tools from package manager.
now skype and microphone works perfect

---

