---
title: "10.10 gui won't boot after update"
date: 2010-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by boxcariii on 2010-12-03
I have been running Ubuntu 10.10 on my Dell Inspirion 1210 for about a month with no problems.  When shutting down yesterday, I installed the recommended updates.  When booting today, the GUI will not start.  I am only able to access the command line.

I have tried booting into graphics failsafe mode, but that only gives me a black screen.  I read suggestions about either editing or deleting my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, but those also provided me with a black screen after the ubuntu splash logo.

I'm not positive that the latest updates are the problem, but it seems probable.  I would appreciate any and all suggestions.  Thanks.

---

### Post by owise1 on 2010-12-03
Do you have an older nvidia card that uses the nvidia 96.43.18 driver?  If so then have a look at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592628](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592628).  The update in Xorg broke this legacy driver - fix not far away - currently in backports.  You can revert to the NV driver to get your GUI back or use nouveau - have a read of the posts..

Oops...should have read your post more carefully!!  Sorry bum steer

---

### Post by boxcariii on 2010-12-03
I do appreciate the effort.  The graphics card is an integrated Intel [GMA 500]("https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/GMA_500").  You are probably right that it is some type of graphics driver problem.

When I did the initial install, the graphics card did not work properly, but the GUI still loaded.  The only problem was I couldn't set it to the ideal resolution.  I had to follow these steps to get that to work: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo/](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo/)

---

### Post by boxcariii on 2010-12-03
I have tried a few more things based on some other threads, but no luck as of yet.

I tried startx, but got this error:
Fatal server error:
no screens found

I tried service gdm start, but got this error:
start: Rejected send message

Someone else mentioned trying 'xorg -configure', but I don't have that installed.  I'm not sure how to install it without an internet connection and I don't know how to connect without the GUI.

---

### Post by boxcariii on 2010-12-04
I am really at a loss as what to do next.  I have figured out that if I hook up an ethernet cable, I can get some networking capabilities.  From there I checked to see if maybe there was an update that fixed my problem.  I tried:

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
sudo apt-get install --install-recommends
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

They all came back saying there was nothing to update.  Is there another command I should be using?

I can get the GUI to load if I boot from a USB drive, but I really don't want to do a reinstall.  Besides, I assume once I install updates it will just kill that install anyway.

Should I just give up on using trying to use Ubuntu on this laptop?  The original install version was some special Dell version of 8.04 and I had constant problems with it locking up.  Now this version only lasted a month before the GUI quit loading.

---

### Post by boxcariii on 2010-12-05
Well, no matter what I tried, I wasn't able to fix my problem and I was unable to find help anywhere.  I finally gave up and decided to just start over with 10.04 instead of 10.10.  I was worried that installing the 200mb of recommended updates would cause the same problem, but it didn't.  Hopefully no future updates render my laptop useless.

If it does die again, I will move on to another OS.  This is supposed to be a stable OS.  The idea that installing a recommended update could make my computer unusable and no information about this problem can be found anywhere, is absolutely ridiculous.

---

### Post by Opethian on 2010-12-07
Similar Issue on my end!

After an update, my system would not complete a restart. After 15 minutes on the shutting down screen, I decided to switch my computer off, and then after 5 minutes, turned on the computer and it would boot to the command line.

I noticed that I now have an additional option (updated kernel) and regardless of the option I choose, it WILL boot to the command line asking for my username then password.

How do I go back and fix this? I'm using an HP laptop, Core 2 Duo, GeForce Go 7600 graphics card, if that's any info.

Annoying since I have Windows 7 installed beside it, and am now using it to post this message/reply.

Hope someone can help me! :) TY

---

