---
title: "10.04 Repair/Recovery?"
date: 2010-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ethan G. on 2010-04-25
Hello- 
So I have been messing around with the new 10.04 and I managed to screw it up. When I started to log off, I closed the lid to my laptop so it would hibernate, but instead the screen went black and I could only see the cursor. It stayed like that for several minutes so I shut it down manually. When I booted it up again, it froze on the splash/loading screen and I haven't been able to boot it since. I've tried to boot in recovery mode, but I think my campus internet interferes with the downloading of the necessary files from the internet. 

Is there any way to boot a recovery mode from the install disc? Or am I SOL? Any help would be appreciated.

P.S.: I am dual-booting Windows 7 and Ubuntu 10.04 if that helps any.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-25
your post is confuse: as i understand, you have problem to boot right ?
but what about internet connection if you are not booted anyway ?

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-04-25
See if you can access a TTY console when you boot Ubuntu (ctrl+alt+f1) then login and type startx to see if you can atleast login.

---

### Post by Ethan G. on 2010-04-26
Dino99- When I boot Ubuntu normally, it will run up until the splash screen. It does not progress past that point. When I boot in recovery mode, and run the recovery manually, the system tries to fetch packages from the internet, but it is unable to. The recovery has not progressed past 28%.

-humanaut- Yes I can access the TTY console when I boot in recovery mode, but it is a text only interface. I'm not one to be messing around in the consoles and terminals too much, so I have no idea what to do with it. I can login and it gives me a place to enter commands, but I don't know where to go from there.

Maybe it is easier to just uninstall Ubuntu and then reinstall it? Is there an easy way to uninstall Ubuntu without harming my Windows partition?

Thanks.
-Ethan

---

### Post by c00lwaterz on 2010-04-26
i have similar case but not that same. I close lid and suspend but it can't go back to screen when I open the lid.

So what I did is I reinstall the 10.04

---

### Post by lo-chan on 2010-05-21
hello everybody =D

Can someone tell me how to get to the recovery mode in ubuntu 10.04?? i was distracted and turned off the laptop while i was updating and now i dont have wireless internet although the deamon points out that I have 90% connection ... loool it outcome could have been worse xD. 

Regards lo-chan

---

### Post by trinity6 on 2010-08-11
Hey due to sudden power cut i dint get the chance of shutting down my ubuntu 10.04 
Next time i started it just shows the initial loading screen .
To solve the problem I entered the recovery mode and installed broken packages.
It worked once but the same power cut problem brought the same situation back.
What do I do now ?

---

