---
title: "UNR 10.04 wireless"
date: 2010-06-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by WJason on 2010-06-18
I tried UNR 10.04 booted from USB the other day and odd things happened with wireless.  I could reach [www.dell.com](www.dell.com), but no other websites.  I opened a terminal window and pinged site names I could think of like [www.microsoft.com](www.microsoft.com) et al.  Ping showed the IP addresses resolving to 1.0.0.0   I've never seen that before.  The Dell home page opened OK, but any hyperlinks from there yielded pages with text only--no graphics.  So, I shut down my Acer One netbook, unplugged the USB stick, and rebooted into UNR 9.10  UNR 9 would no longer connect to my home wireless network. No errors, it just tried and tried and wouldn't connect.  I finally had to attach CAT5 to it.

So, what's up with the 1.0.0.0 IP addresses in UNR 10.04?

And what did UNR10 on the USB stick do to my installation of UNR9 on the hard drive to make wireless stop working?

~wjs

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-06-18
did you check your wireless settings in your router?
if it does auto firmware updates it could reset it.

---

### Post by WJason on 2010-06-18
I'll check the wireless router when I get home.  But my Windows Vista box and the Roku box are unaffected.  I'll also try installing WICD on the Ubuntu netbook and see if that works any better.

---

### Post by WJason on 2010-06-21
I installed WICD and that seems to have solved the problem.  By the way, how do I mark this thread as "Solved"?

---

### Post by WJason on 2010-08-24
Seems I'm back where I started. I've clean installed Ubuntu 10.04 onto my Acer Aspire.  Ubuntu shows my wireless as "disabled"; how do I enable it? With CAT5 plugged in I can reach a few websites, but most time out.  And for those sites I can reach, the hyperlinks time out.  For instance, I can reach Google, but if I type in text and click [Search] it times out. I found one website which works entirely so I don't think it's a hardware problem.  I'm totally befuddled by this problem.  I tried WICD again but it didn't help.  :-(

---

### Post by WJason on 2010-08-25
Woohoo!  Found a fix here
[http://firefox-tutorials.blogspot.com/2010/05/common-issues-solutions.html](http://firefox-tutorials.blogspot.com/2010/05/common-issues-solutions.html)

Type about:config in the address bar, press Enter. 
Find network.dns.disableIPv6 in the list. 
Right-click -> Toggle. 
Restart Firefox and try again

Worked like a charm.  Now just have to figure out wireless...

---

