---
title: "9.10 Live CD Loaded dmraid - Corrupted /home Partition"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by awells527 on 2009-11-08
My system partition is something like this:

/dev/sda1 - EXT3 Boot partition
/dev/sda2 - EXT4 "/" partition
/dev/sda3 - SWAP

/dev/sdb1 - EXT4 "/home" partition

The drives are 320GB in size and identical.  I bought them with the intention of setting up a RAID 1, but decided against it because of issues getting it working right, and ended up using the setup above for Ubuntu 9.04.

So when I was ready to do a fresh install, I booted up in the 9.10 live CD, and found that it has /dev/mapper/{gibberish} as the main drive.  I tried mounting the /dev/sda{x} drives without a problem, but the /dev/sdb1 drive would not mount.  Opening up gparted showed the drive as EXT3, which is not correct.  Once I saw that, I rebooted my computer to find that now my installed OS can't see the home drive anymore either - which is a problem.

So far, I formatted my system drive (since I don't care about it), and taking advantage of the identical drives, I mirrored sdb to sda (using dd) so I can work on a copy.

So I have two questions: 1) why would a live CD assume I have a RAID setup when I do not?, and 2) What are my options at this point to recover the data?

---

### Post by awells527 on 2009-11-09
I was able to get help on the #ubuntu channel.  Turns out that my drives had RAID flags on them even though RAID was disabled in the BIOS, which was recognized by dmraid.  Here is snippets from the IRC log for anybody that stumbles across this post.

> [20:54] <pr0gr4mm3r> Hi, does anybody know why the 9.10 live CD would register two drives as a RAID setup when it is not?  I had the live CD corrupt one of my filesystems when it thought it was a RAID setup.

[01:47] <pr0gr4mm3r> Every time I boot up 9.10 Live, it loads dmraid and actually corrupts my filesystem.  Why?

[01:48] <Heebie> pr0gr4mm3r: Do you have a filesystem that USED to be part of a raid that didn't have the RAID flags removed from the hard-drives before they were used for something else?  If so.. DMRAID would be seeing those tags & trying to rebuild the RAID array that the disks used to be part of.

[01:49] <pr0gr4mm3r> Heebie:  I checked in gparted, and there are no raid flags in there.  Is there another location I can look.  Yes, I did previouslly try to setup a raid in the past, but decided against it later oni

[01:50] <Heebie> pr0gr4mm3r: Did you flag the drives as being part of the RAID from the BIOS on your computer?

[01:50] <pr0gr4mm3r> Heebie:  yes, in the past, but they are set back to AHCI now

[01:51] <Heebie> pr0gr4mm3r: Did you break the RAID in the BIOS as well.. or just fdisk the drives?

[01:53] <pr0gr4mm3r> Hebbie: I can't remember if I actually broke the raid, but I switched the type on the SATA ports...lemme reboot and see if I set them back to RAID if the RAID config in the bios is still there.

[01:54] <Heebie> pr0gr4mm3r: the BIOS writes information to the disks about the RAID... and that is probably still there if you didn't "break" the RAID in the BIOS..and DMRAID would recognize it.

[02:02] <pr0gr4mm3r> Hebbie:  I see Heebie left, but it turns out that even though I disabled the RAID on my SATA ports, the RAID setup can still be defined, and thus causing the mix-up.  Once I deleted the RAID setup, I booted back into the Live CD, and no dmraid or /dev/mapper.


---

