---
title: "12.10 too slow on &quot;good&quot; hardware"
date: 2013-02-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by domi1711 on 2013-02-23
Hi at all!

Im using ubuntu 12.10 with unity for one month now on my laptop
Core 2 Duo T9300 2.5Ghz
8Gb Ram
WD 7200 RPM Harddrive
Geforce 8600mGT

I have tried everything possible to make it snappier (even reinstalled it completely), but if i open the Software Center, it takes almost 8 Seconds until the window is completely there and loaded. Or opening the Homefolder takes 3 Seconds...

i know that this is critic on a high level...but is there anyway to make the overall handling faster? Windows 7 "felt" 3 times as fast on the same machine, if i pressed win+e, the File browser was open immediately. Even my Galaxy Nexus Android device is (given the right Kernel and settings) faster than my laptop with ubuntu. 

I am seriously considering to buy a SSD...but must be another trick? Temepratures are ok, i'm monitoring them constantly. The Internet connection a 100Mbit from my provider...

If i have opened 5 tabs in the browser, each with a lot of ads, it isnt even possible to watch a Youtube video smoothly. The processor load is pretty high then (~80 percent).


Will Xubuntu be any better, or Lubuntu? Or should i use 12.04? Or is this normal with Linux?

edit:

Swap is disabled (useless imo with 8gb ram)
ubuntu caches during my workday abou 5gb in the ram
The system itself uses between 700mb and 3gb
HD is mostly at idle, the usage monitor shows only narrow peaks
im using preload, moved tmpfs to ram, use the latest nvidia driver (313.18), cpu usage with chrome (10 tabs, no flash videos) and nautilus open is between 10 and 30 percent. on idle its about 2-5 percent.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-02-23
Do you have nVidia driver installed?

I had issues with 12.10 getting it installed correctly until I installed headers.

       # You may need headers - meta package for 12.10 version:
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic

            Re: How To Install Nvidia Drivers [v8.1.2.12 by Bogan]. post 1126
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=113](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535&page=113)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2081649](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2081649)


I primarily use 12.04, with gnome-panel not Unity. I prefer the old style screens as my monitor is 4:3 and I prefer to use top & bottom for panels not left side.


My system is an older core duo and as I remember Unity seemed ok, but I now have an SSD with system. But gnome-panel uses less resources. My video card is nVidia 9600GT.

---

### Post by domi1711 on 2013-02-23
yes i already have the latest nvidia driver installed :)

My problem is, that Ubuntu just feels too slow...

How long does it take for your machine to open the Software center (time from clicking the icon until the windwo is loaded completely) ?

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-02-23
I have the same feeling about 12.10. This is a dual core (2xTurion) 2GHz laptop with 4GB RAM. It is using the Gallium 0.4 open source driver for the ATI RS690 card so most effects are switched off. Info says "Experience: Standard",

It is usable but nowhere near as snappy as 10.10.
Even pressing Alt+F2 gives a two second delay before the dash appears.

It is a shame because I really want to use Unity but I cannot afford a new laptop.
By comparison, CentOS runs very fast but it looks dated compared with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by haqking on 2013-02-23
> **domi1711 said:**
> yes i already have the latest nvidia driver installed :)

My problem is, that Ubuntu just feels too slow...

How long does it take for your machine to open the Software center (time from clicking the icon until the windwo is loaded completely) ?

I have 12.10 in a virtual machine with 512 Mb Ram assigned and it takes around 2 seconds which i would expect seeing as it is a VM with only 512

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-02-23
Software Centre does take a long time to load and on my machine with 1GB RAM the window even greys out as maximum RAM usage is needed.

Another thing that takes time to load is System Settings. This is just the way it is. I should have purchased the Premium version! :)

The rest of Ubuntu works fine.

Regards.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-02-23
I have a few computers of various age, but no brand new one. The most powerful one is an HP xw8400 workstation with two dual core xeon processors, 4GB RAM and an nvidia gt 430 graphics card. The least powerful but still usable one is an IBM Thinkpad T42 without PAE. But it boots as fast as the big brother, when both run Lubuntu, because there is a lot to do for the workstation before grub ;-)

Anyway, I have one system with all desktops installed together: Kubuntu, vanilla Ubuntu, Xubuntu and Lubuntu, and another one with Ubuntu Studio. It's possible to run all of them, but I recognize your frustration with Kubuntu and Ubuntu. Furthermore, those desktops won't play high definition video from my camera, 1920x1080-50p. I need to decrease the bitrate to make it work properly. Xubuntu can play such video and is a lot snappier at boot and when I start programs, and Lubuntu is really fast. I don't even have to optimise the graphics program or the video clip to play HD video.

So I find myself running Lubuntu 90% of the time. And the rest of the time I'm sharing between Ubuntu Studio and testing the other desktop environments.

By the way, my son had problems with the streaming videos, that are getting more demanding until his computer was lagging. We could solve that problem with the Openbox 'WM only' option, that comes with the Lubuntu desktop.

So, to summarize I suggest that you try Xubuntu and Lubuntu live from an install CD or USB drive, or install either their desktop environments or the 'whole flavour' into your present system.

```
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop
```
or
```
sudo apt-get install xfce4
```
and
```
sudo apt-get install lubuntu-desktop

```or
```
sudo apt-get install lxde
```

*Edit*: And I prefer 12.04 :-)

---

### Post by domi1711 on 2013-02-23
Thanks for your input!
Is there a big difference (performance wise) between xubuntu and lubuntu?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-02-23
> **domi1711 said:**
> Thanks for your input!
Is there a big difference (performance wise) between xubuntu and lubuntu?
Maybe on a scale:

If Lubuntu needs 200 units, Xubuntu needs 250, Ubuntu with Unity needs 450 and Kubuntu 650 units (very approximate and generalized numbers, think of RAM or time). So the difference between Lubuntu and Xubuntu is rather small for many tasks, but I do notice a significant difference playing HD video.

---

### Post by domi1711 on 2013-02-23
Thanks for the info!

ive already burned the xubuntu and lubuntu live cds ;)

I think ill try Xubuntu first :)

---

### Post by rsrocha on 2013-02-23
If your internet connection is slow, software center will take longer to open as it pulls data from the internet and updates repositories as it starts.

I experienced software center taking longer to open when my internet connection is crawling...

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2013-02-23
Lubuntu might be your answer but consider taking Fluxbox for a test run at some stage, it should scream along on the hardware you have mentioned.

---

