---
title: "11.04 weird? runs fine on live cd"
date: 2011-06-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by juggernautxtr on 2011-06-17
installed it will not boot,
computer is AMD athlon 2 3200+ 2 GHz
asus A8N- 32 sli deluxe (amd north bridge)
Nvidea 6600GT <--recognized in recovery
standard keyboard from e machines
saitek rat 5 mouse <--recognized in recovery

I get a black screen with cursor a flash of text barely read fast enough then goes to a pink screen
where i have 3 option of boot and mem test x2.
this is my second attempt at trying to use this software.

someone please give me a CLUE!!!!
once i get the the hang of it I'll be off like a rocket.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-17
> **juggernautxtr said:**
> installed it will not boot,
computer is AMD athlon 2 3200+ 2 GHz
asus A8N- 32 sli deluxe (amd north bridge)
Nvidea 6600GT <--recognized in recovery
standard keyboard from e machines
saitek rat 5 mouse <--recognized in recovery

I get a black screen with cursor a flash of text barely read fast enough then goes to a pink screen
where i have 3 option of boot and mem test x2.
this is my second attempt at trying to use this software.

someone please give me a CLUE!!!!
once i get the the hang of it I'll be off like a rocket.Hi, follow the guide in this link and you should get it working.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

### Post by juggernautxtr on 2011-06-17
ok so ubuntu 11.04 will have to wait i did however get kubuntu 8.10 to install and work. but now how the heck to download firefox?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-06-17
Did you really mean 8.10? Intrepid (8.10) has been past end-of-life for over a year now. You will not be able to update it nor install applications for it. If you've given up on 11.04, I suggest you install either 10.04 or 10.10, Ubuntu or Kubuntu. Those are the two versions, apart from 11.04 which are still supported. Do you need download links?

---

### Post by juggernautxtr on 2011-06-17
> **coffeecat said:**
> Did you really mean 8.10? Intrepid (8.10) has been past end-of-life for over a year now. You will not be able to update it nor install applications for it. If you've given up on 11.04, I suggest you install either 10.04 or 10.10, Ubuntu or Kubuntu. Those are the two versions, apart from 11.04 which are still supported. Do you need download links?

unfortuately my kid snapped my dvd (my last one)but it works, was not an issue with ubuntu my hard drive has a bad board and this booted from another hard drive i had laying around. so I at least have something to work from. as sure i can't afford windows 7 thats for the monster build when Bulldozer is released.

---

