---
title: "9.04 64bit takes &gt; 10 Gig of Space"
date: 2009-07-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SBFree on 2009-07-19
I installed 9.04 64 Bit from the Alternate CD. Looking at the properties of the file system indicates the install is more than 170,000 files and 11.6 Gig of Disk Space. Could this be right? Are there places I should look to delete temporary files? This seems like more space than a Vista install.
Scott

---

### Post by emeraldgirl08 on 2009-07-19
My Jaunty is currently using 3.1 gb of HDD. I created a partition of 8 gb for it.

Am elated at how easy this OS is on everything :D

---

### Post by ktrnka on 2009-07-19
Open up the disk usage analyzer and see what is taking up space.

Applications > Accessories > Disk Usage Analyzer

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-07-19
The System Monitor (System->Administration) will give you a more accurate answer, my guess is you aren't actually using 11.6gb with a fresh install (but I could be wrong). Possibly you have another partition, a flash drive, a CD, etc. mounted (in /media or /mnt), which is driving up the total.

Who cares about the Vista comparision, though, really? Does a Vista install include a complete office suite, image editor, music player, etc etc etc. :) not to mention a 1 TB hard drive costs less than $100 these days.

---

### Post by SBFree on 2009-07-19
> **ktrnka said:**
> Open up the disk usage analyzer and see what is taking up space.

Applications > Accessories > Disk Usage Analyzer

Both 'Disk Analyzer' & 'System Monitor' report about 2.7 Gigs of file use. I am trying to optimize the size of a backup disk image made by a program called 'True Image'.

---

