---
title: "18.04 ssh -X will not display remote file manager"
date: 2018-07-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2018-07-15
In UM 16.04 (and 16.10, 17.04 and 17.10) I could get the remote machine's files GUI just by using the ssh -X michael@192.168.1.150 command and then issuing the caja command. This is from a 16.04 client to a 16.04 server. 

[https://ubuntu-mate.community/uploads/default/original/2X/e/e4818cda5496bd18f0a07681165349cc090e9265.png]("https://ubuntu-mate.community/uploads/default/original/2X/e/e4818cda5496bd18f0a07681165349cc090e9265.png")

However, when attempting the same from an 18.04 client to an 18.04 server, this is what I get - Please see link below.

[https://ubuntu-mate.community/uploads/default/original/2X/4/4b1a7cabea3433c0ab40b3e14e12859d75bcbdab.png]("https://ubuntu-mate.community/uploads/default/original/2X/4/4b1a7cabea3433c0ab40b3e14e12859d75bcbdab.png")

Caja does indeed open and display on the server but not on my local machine. Does anyone know why this happens or more importantly how I can get a remote GUI to display on my local machine? It seems to be some kind of authorization failure...

X2go works as it always has, more or less perfectly and SSHFS is flawless. Only X forwarding seems broken.

Thanks for any help you can give.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-07-15
Try this:
$ ssh -X user@server caja

Also bear in mind that X forwarding doesn't work with Wayland, it only works with X11 and Xorg.

---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2018-07-15
I tried "ssh -X [email]michael@192.168.1.XXX[/email] caja" and got zilch. My usual ssh -X is "ssh -X 192.168.1.XXX" and works as expected. All machines are X11 and Xorg. Thanks HermanAB.

**EDIT**: However, this worked. michael@longitude:~$ pluma /home/data2/Documents/Computer/something.txt Perhaps something to do with Caja? Or polkit?

**Edit**2: I also tried ssh -X michael@longitude and entered caja. Caja opened on the server but not on my machine. It is a 18.04 caja issue. Probably a bug of some sort.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-07-15
I don't have an answer but I see the same thing. I'm not trying to run pkexec just plain caja and it opens on the remote machine not mine.

Ummm .... can you confirm something?

If I launch pluma it works as it should. I also installed another file manager ( xfe ) and that also works as it should. Does pluma open correctly?

---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2018-07-15
Yes, pluma opens identified as pluma on the remote server. Thanks Morbius1.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-07-16
How about using a local caja with remote network access over ssh:
$ caja ssh://server

I just installed caja and did this on Ubuntu 18.4.  You don't need to remote the application, just the connection.

You can even open multiple windows to multiple servers and click drag drop files between them.  It works the same as konqueror and dolphin. Very slick.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-07-16
I noticed there was a denial of Administrator privileges in that first screen.  Maybe your accounts are not entirely synced?

[https://ubuntu-mate.community/uploads/default/original/2X/4/4b1a7cabea3433c0ab40b3e14e12859d75bcbdab.png](https://ubuntu-mate.community/uploads/default/original/2X/4/4b1a7cabea3433c0ab40b3e14e12859d75bcbdab.png)

---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2018-07-16
My accounts appear to be synced. The denial (I think) has something to do with polkit-1 dispensing admin privileges. X2go works, sftp works and ssh -X works. Caja will not display on a local screen using ssh -X server after entering "caja" in the mate terminal. Thanks SeijiSensei.

---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2018-07-16
Yes, this works splendidly HermanAB. My problem is that using ssh -X while bringing up other software such as pluma, does not appear to display caja. Thanks HermanAB. Perhaps it has something to do with caja administrative (super-user) privileges. I don't know.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-07-17
It is the way that Caja is coded.  It is designed to be used with remote protocols and not to be remoted as an app.  If you try Dolphin or Konqueror, I bet the same thing will happen.

---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2018-07-19
I think that this is a bug. I have reported it as such. See - [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mate/+bug/1774288](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mate/+bug/1774288)

Thank you gentlemen for your help in this matter.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-07-31
In the example you gave in your original post where you tried to run **pkexec caja** after connecting with **ssh -X michael@192.168.1.162** try it this way instead:
```
sudo -E caja
```

---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2018-08-30
Thanks Morbius1 - your code worked and Caja opened locally displaying the server files. The following lines also appeared in my terminal - 

```
michael@newton:~$ sudo -E caja
[sudo] password for michael: 

** (caja:2376): WARNING **: 19:17:43.095: Unable to connect to dbus: The connection is closed

(caja:2376): GLib-GIO-CRITICAL **: 19:17:43.139: g_dbus_proxy_new_sync: assertion 'G_IS_DBUS_CONNECTION (connection)' failed
Initializing caja-image-converter extension
Initializing caja-open-terminal extension
Error creating proxy: The connection is closed (g-io-error-quark, 18)
Error creating proxy: The connection is closed (g-io-error-quark, 18)
Error creating proxy: The connection is closed (g-io-error-quark, 18)
Error creating proxy: The connection is closed (g-io-error-quark, 18)
Error creating proxy: The connection is closed (g-io-error-quark, 18)
RuntimeError: object at 0x7ff1fa0e0960 of type RenameMenu is not initialized
```

I'll continue to work on this to decide if and where pkexec has apparently failed. Thanks again Morbius1.

---

### Post by Michael Dooley on 2019-02-24
To continue this investigation...

[https://ubuntu-mate.community/t/x11-forwarding-with-caja-in-18-04-1/18911](https://ubuntu-mate.community/t/x11-forwarding-with-caja-in-18-04-1/18911)

New bug report on failure of caja to open via X ssh specifying 18.04 caja server:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mate/+bug/1815318](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-mate/+bug/1815318)

---

