---
title: "Matlab problem: Initializing Handle Graphics failed"
date: 2006-02-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by emreakbas on 2006-02-23
Hi,  
   I installed MATLAB Version 7.1.0.183 (R14) Service Pack 3  on my breezy. When I start it, I get the following error after initialization: 
"
Warning: Initializing Handle Graphics failed in matlabrc.
This indicates a potentially serious problem in your MATLAB setup,
which should be resolved as soon as possible.  Error detected was:

Error using ==> set
Invalid figure property: 'inverthardcopy'.
> In matlabrc at 108
"

What could be the problem?

---

### Post by neoflight on 2006-03-15
[QUOTE=emreakbas]Hi,  
   I installed MATLAB Version 7.1.0.183 (R14) Service Pack 3  on my breezy. When I start it, I get the following error after initialization: 
"
Warning: Initializing Handle Graphics failed in matlabrc.
This indicates a potentially serious problem in your MATLAB setup,
which should be resolved as soon as possible.  Error detected was:

Error using ==> set
Invalid figure property: 'inverthardcopy'.
> In matlabrc at 108
"

What could be the problem?[/QUOTE]

I had the same thing (along with others) when i first installed matlab. i guess its due to a bad installation. matlabrc, and pathdef should be set properly, + toolboxcache...

just a look at the problem description and solutions i gave as a howto...pls access it from the link on my signature...that fixed all the problems in my case....hope that helps....let me know...

---

### Post by emreakbas on 2006-03-15
Thank you. I've solved the problem. Weird but true, it was due to the locale. My system's locale was "tr_TR.utf8" when I changed the locale of the terminal where I startup MATLAB to "en_US", MATLAB worked without any problem.

---

### Post by ekinakoglu on 2008-05-04
I have a similar problem...My error is:

Warning: Initializing Handle Graphics failed in matlabrc.
This indicates a potentially serious problem in your MATLAB setup,
which should be resolved as soon as possible.  Error detected was:
MATLAB:badsubscript
Attempted to access monitors(1,:); index out of bounds because
size(monitors)=[0,4].

But the link on your signature is not accessible..Can you help me fixing this problem?

Thank you in advance..

---

### Post by emreakbas on 2008-05-04
As I said in my previous post, I solved the problem by changing the locale of the shell environment where I start matlab:

[FONT="Courier New"]bash$ export LC_ALL=en_US
bash$ matlab[/FONT]

I don't have any idea about your problem.

---

### Post by ekinakoglu on 2008-05-04
My locale is:

LANG=en_US
LC_CTYPE="en_US"
LC_NUMERIC="en_US"
LC_TIME="en_US"
LC_COLLATE=C
LC_MONETARY="en_US"
LC_MESSAGES="en_US"
LC_PAPER="en_US"
LC_NAME="en_US"
LC_ADDRESS="en_US"
LC_TELEPHONE="en_US"
LC_MEASUREMENT="en_US"
LC_IDENTIFICATION="en_US"
LC_ALL=

I changeed all to en_US and en_US.UTF-8 but it didn't work. Thank you for your reply..

---

### Post by Faelar on 2008-05-29
Hi there!
Yesterday I found this topic because I was facing that error too!

I'm referring to the issue "variant" posted by ***ekinakoglu***, a problem that seems not to concern with locales or matlabrc and pathdef initialization.

When I saw no feedback to the post about this error I tried to fix it in a brutal way, going to understand the files that where called during MATLAB's initialization process before the error.

I found that the error message is generated by the incorrect creation of the ***monitors*** variable in hgrc.m
Hacking the variable bypassing its automatic generation via the *MonitorDefinitions* property of **get** and creating manually the correct array I solved the problem.

Here you can find a complete tutorial to fix the issue.
[http://remmirath-en.blogspot.com/2008/05/matlab-warning-initializing-handle.html](http://remmirath-en.blogspot.com/2008/05/matlab-warning-initializing-handle.html)...

bYe,
Andy

---

### Post by kevmitch on 2008-06-28
I've got an thin client setup with LTSP 5. The killing of auto detection won't work for me because each client is different in general. I found that downgrading the clients to Debian etch (yes I'm using debian not ubuntu) solved the problem, but introduced a whole bunch of others that I didn't want to deal with. Basically LTSP 5 was garbage at the time etch was released.

So basically I'm pulling my hair out and cursing mathworks for writing non-portable code.

---

