---
title: "8.10 Change Nvidia X server settings via script?"
date: 2008-12-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 0bso on 2008-12-04
What I'm trying to do is trying to enable/disable a secondary monitor with a script.

Right now to turn the second monitor off I have to go into nvidia-settings, select the monitor > configure > disable > ok > apply > quit > yes I'm sure I want to quit. And then either do the same thing again to enable it or crl-alt-bksp. The latter is easiest but it would be nice to be able to do it without killing whatever I have open at the time. 

The best I've come up with is having 2 xorg.conf files and switching between the two but as far as I can tell that will require restarting x every time it switches. I can enable/disable monitors in the nvidia settings without restarting but is it possible from command line?

---

### Post by Nate0402 on 2009-11-05
I see that this post is old but I am trying to do the same thing. I was hoping that someone could answer this for me.  I have a desktop with two screens one is my tv and the other is my computer monitor.  They are in two different rooms so I dont need them on at the same time. I currently use the same process as described above, via nvidia settings. A script would be awesome since it is a very repetitive task and well... that is what computers are for.

---

### Post by Joren on 2010-04-10
That also accounts for me. I also want to enable/disable my tv in NVidia with a simple script... However, at this moment I use 9.10 and so where are way past 8.10 but still have the same problem.

---

### Post by t.rei on 2010-04-22
This would indeed be interesting.

Especially something as simple as: turn second monitor on / off.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-04-22
I did this using xrandr and xorg metamodes.

I'm off out now, but if someone else doesn't chime in, I'll try and draft a rough guide tomorrow.

---

### Post by nalu on 2010-04-24
disper is what you want:
[URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1216328"]
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1216328[/URL]

works like a charm for me.

---

### Post by nalu on 2010-04-24
disper
       -l, --list
              list the attached displays

       -s, --single
              only enable the primary display

       -S, --secondary
              only enable the secondary display

       -c, --clone
              clone displays

       -e, --extend
              extend displays

       -p, --export
              export current settings to standard output

       -i, --import
              import current settings from standard input

---

