---
title: "10.4 to 11.4 upgrade"
date: 2011-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stanley82 on 2011-05-13
I want to upgrade 10.4 to 11.4 64 bit.  I have the options to install server and I want the desktop.  Downloaded the 64 bit version following the Ubuntu web site pointers.  Looks like it's about to junk all my stuff and fuddle dudlle my partitions.  I'm scared so thought I do the try it thing from my flash stick.  Following the instructions, set the language and click TRY IT.  I do not see TRY IT only many languages just like a fresh install.  What the heck is going on?

                 Regards Ian.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-05-14
> **stanley82 said:**
> I want to upgrade 10.4 to 11.4 64 bit.  I have the options to install server and I want the desktop.  Downloaded the 64 bit version following the Ubuntu web site pointers.  Looks like it's about to junk all my stuff and fuddle dudlle my partitions.  I'm scared so thought I do the try it thing from my flash stick.  Following the instructions, set the language and click TRY IT.  I do not see TRY IT only many languages just like a fresh install.  What the heck is going on?

                 Regards Ian.

First you can't can't skip a distro in this case, no 10.04 to 11.04 directly.

Second what type of install disc do you have a alternative or live desktop.

---

### Post by stanley82 on 2011-05-14
I downloaded the ubuntu-11.04-server-amd64.iso from ubuntu website by clicking on get ubuntu at the main website.  That's what I put on my flash stick.  Okay, I can see where I went wrong.  I followed my nose I should not have clicked on get Ubuntu I should have scrolled down a wee bit and got the desktop.  I guess the Ubuntu web site should be clearer on that by listing all the stuff they offer.  What the heck is a server anyway is it something to do with Apache?  Sounds more sophisticated than what I need, good thing I did not install.  Maybe is should move to the mint version of Ubuntu.  Regards Ian.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-05-14
> **stanley82 said:**
> I downloaded the ubuntu-11.04-server-amd64.iso from ubuntu website by clicking on get ubuntu at the main website.  That's what I put on my flash stick.  Okay, I can see where I went wrong.  I followed my nose I should not have clicked on get Ubuntu I should have scrolled down a wee bit and got the desktop.  I guess the Ubuntu web site should be clearer on that by listing all the stuff they offer.  What the heck is a server anyway is it something to do with Apache?  Sounds more sophisticated than what I need, good thing I did not install.  Maybe is should move to the mint version of Ubuntu.  Regards Ian.

Mint is a nice setup, you understand the upgrade part here I presume.

---

### Post by stanley82 on 2011-05-14
I now have the desktop version on my flash stick.  It boots forever and I can see the light on the flash stick flashing.  Still no Ubuntu flash screen after 45 minutes so I guess I've got something wrong.  At least 10.4 is still good.  Ian.

---

### Post by stanley82 on 2011-06-03
Keywords Ubuntu, LinuxMint 11, Nvidia, GeForce
Okay, I've got it going but what a lot of messing about.  I pulled over LinuxMint 11, same set of frustrations.
Now for the fix.
Live boot.
When I got the first screen no matter what option I choose Mem test, DVD test etc I was stuck with a blank screen.
Fix --- on first live screen hit the tab key and then back space to erase 
"quiet splash--" and then type "nomodeset" then CR.  After that it live booted okay.
Next problem, Install LinuxMint 11 (same as Ubuntu 11.4 almost) I erased my hard drive (kick my ***) and tried for a clean install.  Blank screen once again.  Repeated live boot a couple of time and install a couple of times finally hitting CR repeatedly during install till I got what I think is the GRUB screen.  Then tab "nomodeset" again and at long long last I got LinuxMint 11 installed.  BUT BUT before rebooting I did a sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg and added nomodeset to the line "
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic root=UUID=d36221cf-0a0b-44aa-8718-ce16b44e49c0 ro   quiet splash nomodeset vt.handoff=7
                                          "
    After re-booting you can use Administration/additional drivers tool to install the Nvidia driver.
I have a GeForce 8500GT by the way.
      Ian.
PS I'd suggest that the Guys who understand this stuff provide two kernels or more to cover different Hardware.  During clean new install from a live boot and getting into GRUB was a problem.

---

### Post by stanley82 on 2011-06-03
Oh yes, I forgot to add that using a flash stick in place of the DVD I got about half a live boot then "Std-in error 0" I tried with both Fat32 and ext2 formatted flash stick.  Ian.

---

