---
title: "Ubuntu + Windows dual boot, hide the grub menu"
date: 2013-03-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Klausp on 2013-03-30
Hello, I have a dual boot setup on my machine: Windows 7 and Ubuntu, both loaded by Grub2. I use Windows more than Ubuntu, so I wanted it to be the default entry that boots quickly, without displaying or asking anything else. I also wanted to be able to boot Ubuntu by displaying the boot menu when pressing the Shift key at bootup, so I read the grub manual and looked around in forums on how to do that, it seems it's as simple as editing /etc/default/grub and updating grub. 

Here are my /etc/default/grub settings:

[...]
GRUB_DEFAULT='Windows 7'
GRUB_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=5
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_FORCE_HIDDEN_MENU="true"
export GRUB_FORCE_HIDDEN_MENU
[...]

Unfortunately the Shift key doesn't bring any menu at bootup, it just adds "GRUB loading." to the screen when booting up, and Windows starts automatically every time.

I read on forums that a problem with multiple OSs might be caused by the OS prober script in /etc/grub.d, so I disabled it (chmod -x 30_os-prober) and updated grub. Still, no luck: it's windows everytime.

Anyone know a possible solution?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-03-30
I think you need to backup and edit the file /boot/grub/grub.cfg although it states
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE at the head of the file ;-)

Boot from a live CD/DVD/USB drive (for example your Ubuntu install drive)

Mount the appropriate Ubuntu partition (in my example at /mnt)
```
sudo cp -p /mnt/boot/grub/grub.cfg /mnt/boot/grub/grub.cfg0
```
and edit it with the editor nano (or another one if you like)
```
sudo nano /mnt/boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

Change a line near the beginning of the file
from
[SIZE=3][FONT=courier new]set default="Windows 7"[/FONT][/SIZE] (or maybe something else)
to
[FONT=courier new][SIZE=3]set default="0"[/SIZE][/FONT]
and change a line further down
from
[SIZE=3][FONT=courier new]set timeout=0[/FONT][/SIZE] (I think)
to
[SIZE=3][FONT=courier new]set timeout=10[/FONT][/SIZE]
Save the file and reboot from the internal drive.

Now maybe it will work pressing the shift key to get the grub menu. And Ubuntu should boot. Maybe some other setting must also be changed. But try like this at first.

Read more about grub 2 in this link [[COLOR=#ff0000]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Hidden[/COLOR]]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Hidden")

---

### Post by Klausp on 2013-03-30
Thanks sudodus for you response, would be a life saver if I wanted  to restore it to normality, but
> **sudodus said:**
>  [SIZE=3][FONT=courier new]set timeout=10[/FONT][/SIZE]  
makes grub display boot menu regardless of any key for ten seconds and then boots the default OS

So, with your solution, I would be able to dual boot my system again but I would have to wait every time 10 seconds with the menu displayed and I wanted to hide the menu and quickly auto boot windows every time UNLESS I pressed the shift key, to show the menu again and boot Ubuntu.

Anyway I found a workaround at [http://askubuntu.com/questions/165615/cannot-get-hidden-grub2-menu-to-appear](http://askubuntu.com/questions/165615/cannot-get-hidden-grub2-menu-to-appear). 

The problem seems to be 30_os-prober, which gives problems if other systems are detected. Instead of disabling it, as I unsuccesfully did, I followed Laphanga's second option (modify os-prober and upgrade grub).

Now  everything works :guitar: , thanks Ubuntu communities!

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-03-30
Thanks for sharing your solution :KS

---

