---
title: "24.04 Power Manager Settings Not Honored"
date: 2024-06-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Adam_GUI on 2024-06-18
I have a fresh install of 24.04 Xubuntu.
My monitor fades to black with ~10 minutes of inactivity from input.
Problem is, is that I have the monitor set to never go blank.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]293887[/ATTACH]

System Suspend is set to never.
Screensaver is off.
Lock screen is on.

LightDM is set to never timeout.
I have set 
```
xset s noblank
```
and added it to startup.

No difference.

I may have config files from a previous Debian installation.
But, I don't know what I'm looking for.

I'm not sure what I've done wrong.  But, I'd like to get it fixed.

Any ideas?

Thanks.

---

### Post by VMC on 2024-06-18
Could it be your BIOS options causing the issue? What PC model?

---

### Post by Adam_GUI on 2024-06-18
My computer isn't shutting down.  My monitor is going to sleep.

Computer is an ASUS with an 
M5A97 - R 2.0
BIOS 2105 (?)
AMDFX - 8320 8-Core @3823 MHZ.

It was running Debian Bookworm until a day or so ago, when I mucked with NVIDIA settings and ruined my resolution.
I decided to jump back to a stable XUbuntu.

---

### Post by Adam_GUI on 2024-06-20
I've double-checked the BIOS.
Nothing there but overclock and fan speed options.

As long as I'm typing or using the mouse, the screen stays awake.
I've even tried turning on presentation mode.  No dice.  If I step away to do anything, I return to a black screen.

---

### Post by Adam_GUI on 2024-06-21
I switched from XFCE4 to KDE Plasma.  No more blanking of my monitor.
Still not sure what my underlying problem was.  But, issue solved, for now.

---

### Post by madalama on 2024-11-21
I had the same issue and found that the settings for this is in Xfce Screensaver.

---

