---
title: "11.10 locking up on Toshiba Satellite T130"
date: 2012-08-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rhills on 2012-08-05
I've had Ubuntu installed on this laptop since I bought it 2 years ago.  Currently up to 11.10 with all updates.

About a week ago, it started locking up.  By that, I mean, the screen would freeze, mouse and keyboard unresponsive, <ctrl><alt><fn> not working, <ctrl><alt><del> not working, remote SSH disconnects (if connected) or "no route to host" if I try and connect after the laptop has frozen.

The lockup *seems* to be triggered simply by typing at the keyboard - I seem to be able to mouse around without any problems, but as soon as I start using the keyboard for anything (gnome-terminal, gedit, email, even entering a password after the screen saver had kicked in!), after a variable number of keystrokes, everything freezes.

I've looked through all the logs I can think of and can't find anything obvious to indicate the cause of the problem.

uname -a :
> 3.0.0-23-generic #39-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jul 19 19:19:11 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

Relevant bit of lshw:> 
        *-display:0
             description: VGA compatible controller
             product: Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
             version: 07
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
             configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
             resources: irq:44 memory:f0000000-f03fffff memory:d0000000-dfffffff ioport:1800(size=8)
        *-display:1 UNCLAIMED
             description: Display controller
             product: Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 2.1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.1
             version: 07
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: bus_master cap_list
             configuration: latency=0
             resources: memory:f0400000-f04fffff

What can I do to try and pin down the cause of this problem?

TIA,

Rob Hills
Waikiki, Western Australia

---

### Post by rhills on 2012-08-05
I forgot to mention, I seem to be able to do what I like via SSH to this laptop from another computer without any problem, including running GUI apps like gedit etc.

TIA,

Rob Hills
Waikiki, Western Australia

---

### Post by rhills on 2012-08-06
My computer is still completely disabled, does anyone have any suggestions about where to look to diagnose this issue?

---

### Post by rhills on 2012-08-10
Is this the wrong forum for this query?  My laptop remains unusable except via SSH!

Interestingly, if I boot from a 11.10 Live USB, it seems to run without any problems, so the problem seems to be OS-related rather than hardware related.  Where do I look to confirm this?

---

