---
title: "8.10: IE7 on Ubuntu ? Is it possible  ?"
date: 2009-03-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Greekgos on 2009-03-26
Hi,

I'm currently programming web sites in a box and I'd like to switch my OS to Ubuntu 8.10. The only thing that I'm trying to answer, is will am I able to test our web sites with IE7 ? I tried IEs4Linux thing and IE7 doesn't work well. IE6 works nice, but not the IE7. IE7 loads correctly, but no one web site loads.

I'd like to know if I can use IE7 on Linux to test web sites

Thanks a lot, have a nice day!

---

### Post by Neo_The_User on 2009-03-26
With Wine, yes.
With Virtual box, yes.
With vmware, yes. (Have to pay)
With QEMU, yes.
With ReactOS, yes. (No SATA support)
With Cedega, yes. (Have to pay)
With linux with no emulator of any kind, no.

---

### Post by KCG102282 on 2009-03-26
Have you tried WINE?

---

### Post by Greekgos on 2009-03-26
When I start IE7 with Wine, IE7 started but crash like 5 secs after.

With errors:
Cannot find '%ws'. Make sur the path or Internet adress is correct.

And

err:rpc:RpcRaiseException handler continued execution.

---

### Post by Greekgos on 2009-03-26
Nobody have an answer ?

Thanks.

---

### Post by baizon on 2009-03-26
Try VirtualBox then :-)

---

### Post by albandy on 2009-03-26
Here explain how to do it, search for "Now for Internet Explorer 7" in the document:

[http://webexpose.org/2007/01/07/internet-explorer-7-on-linux/](http://webexpose.org/2007/01/07/internet-explorer-7-on-linux/)

---

### Post by Greekgos on 2009-03-26
> **albandy said:**
> Here explain how to do it, search for "Now for Internet Explorer 7" in the document:

[http://webexpose.org/2007/01/07/internet-explorer-7-on-linux/](http://webexpose.org/2007/01/07/internet-explorer-7-on-linux/)

It doesn't work. When I start ./ie7, nothing happens.

---

### Post by albandy on 2009-03-26
I'll try to install it and explain it. Give me some time.

---

### Post by kaweka on 2009-04-20
I also plan to run IE 7.0 or later on my Ubuntu 8.10.
This Ubuntu runs within VirtualBox on win XP host.
This is the sand-box for my visitors.
So, it would be nice for them, to offer the users of my
Ubuntu installation also the usage of IE. A lot of them
use windows and IE in theirs all-day working.

You can see yourself, running IE 7.0 on Ubuntu within VirtualBox
had less sense. Too complicated usage for the target users.
It would be escalation of virtualization: win via VB on ubuntu
via VB on win.

---

