---
title: "What is going on with xorg.conf?"
date: 2009-08-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by billdotson on 2009-08-08
In Ubuntu 9.04 this is all my xorg.conf is: 

" 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
"
Why is it almost empty? How am I supposed to edit things like mouse wheel sensitivity,etc. now (why isn't that included in the mouse settings GUI screen?)

---

### Post by starcannon on 2009-08-08
You can still modify xorg.conf the way you used to, including adding sections and subsections. The new xserver has streamlined xorg.conf a great deal, but as I mentioned, you can still use your old xorg.conf hacks on it, and it will still comply to your will/whim.

---

### Post by billdotson on 2009-08-08
Well, that is good. However, how am I supposed to know the exact entry for such-and-such device to put in there?

---

### Post by starcannon on 2009-08-08
Heres a couple nice example files of the old xorg.conf, its Sun specific, but should work for your purposes; just add and modify the bits you need.
[http://dev.gentoo.org/~fmccor/docs/xorg/xorg.conf/xorg.conf.html]("http://dev.gentoo.org/%7Efmccor/docs/xorg/xorg.conf/xorg.conf.html")

And another very generic one:
[http://www.arl.wustl.edu/~mgeorg/linuxOnLaptop/xorg.conf.html](http://www.arl.wustl.edu/~mgeorg/linuxOnLaptop/xorg.conf.html)

---

