---
title: "9.10 Screen won't turn on when laptop lid is opened"
date: 2009-11-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2009-11-15
I am running 9.10 on an Inspiron 1200, and am having an issue with the screen when I open the lid.  The screen stays dark, and won't turn on.  The computer is not suspended, as I still see activity on the wireless card lights, as well as the HDD one when I hit buttons.  The only way that I can get it back up is if I hit the stand-by button and then reactivate (This works about 75% of the time.  The rest of the time, I need to reboot.)  It isn't a hardware issue, as the Windows partition works fine, as did this one under 9.04.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2009-11-24
*bump*

Anyone?  I think I'll need to downgrade, otherwise, as it's getting to be a total crap shoot whether the screen will come back on.

---

### Post by calimocho on 2009-12-07
Same problem here.  Dell latitude D610.  Worked under 9.04 and works with windows.  After closing the lid it's a ~50% chance the screen will come back on upon opening.  

In addition to the type of activity you see, I have also VNC'd into the machine and my X session is still running just as I left it.  (In fact I am typing this right now thru VNC to the machine.)  I have also tried issuing the command 'xset dpms force on' to try and override power-save features in case that was the cause.

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2009-12-07
Welcome to the forums.  Sorry you had a doozy for your first problem.

I've found that with a few recent updates, I can reliably suspend the computer and close the lid and get back in...but still can't just close the lid.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2009-12-07
i had the same problem i just changed the settings under power management

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2009-12-07
What settings did you change?  Below are mine...as you can see, I have everything turned off:

[IMG]http://i166.photobucket.com/albums/u105/Weidbrewer/Power.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by calimocho on 2009-12-08
I have the same settings for power except I have screensaver enabled after 30 minutes.  Since we're both having the same problem it doesn't seem likely that's the cause.

I have not rebooted, suspended, etc the machine.  I just opened the lid (I'm VNC'd in again) and the screen is on.  Strange. :-?

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2009-12-08
> **calimocho said:**
> Since we're both having the same problem it doesn't seem likely that's the cause.

Yeah, didn't think so - but, remove all obvious reason first, no?

---

### Post by calimocho on 2009-12-09
> **Weidbrewer said:**
> Yeah, didn't think so - but, remove all obvious reason first, no?

Absolutely.  But I think we can say we know the problem occurs with or without screensaver enabled.

---

### Post by nunt on 2010-01-06
I had this problem, and this worked for me:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=358432](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=358432)

---

### Post by darkksyde on 2010-01-06
I know they're completly different mobos but on my Dell studio xps 16, i fixed this problem which was occuring under windows 7 by reflashing the bios

---

