---
title: "11.10 dissapearing desktop and no sudo"
date: 2011-11-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by styleruk on 2011-11-18
Hi

I installed 11.10 a couple of weeks ago and I'm getting a strange thing happening.
First some icons in the left panel dissapeared although they still work.
Then I can't open the update manager, nothing happens.  I'm thinking maybe there's a fix but I have no way to update!
Then I can't use sudo anymore, I get the message 'can't open /etc/sudoers; permission denied'.
that leaves me very limited as to what I can actually do now.

Latest reboot, the bar on the left has gone completely!  Strange things going on here.

Can anyone tell me how to get sudo working again, at least I will be able to try to fix things then:-(

PS; 64bit version.

Si

---

### Post by Orange_and_Green on 2011-11-18
Hi,


can you boot into recovery mode? If so, the first thing I'd try is fsck to see if the file system needs repairing.

If that doesn't solve at least the sudo part, personally I would backup the /home folder (for me it's easy, as I keep it on its own partition :P) and reinstall.


Did you change the sudoers file / experiment with visudo / change system users etc? If so, maybe you can try following ViRMiN's and sisco311's advice in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1294356"), if you feel like it...

---

### Post by styleruk on 2011-11-18
Thanks for quick reply.  I will try that.
the only things I can think of that I changed before this error were...

1) Update, but it worked after that I think...
2) I chmod -R a usb stick, it chundered away at the system hard disk for ages until I killed it.  Maybe I chmod everything somehow?

---

### Post by Orange_and_Green on 2011-11-18
You can check owner status and permissions of all the files within a directory with the command
```
ls -l
```

How are the permissions set around in your system (say ls -l /etc)? If you changed permissions around, backup & reinstall is probably the easiest, fastest and safest way...


It's indeed very possible that chmod -Ring may have screwed up things in unintended places, if for example the USB stick contained a symbolic link or something...

---

### Post by styleruk on 2011-11-18
ls -l /etc/sudoers gives this...
-r--r----- 1 root root 574 2011-09-11 20:09 /etc/sudoers

---

### Post by Orange_and_Green on 2011-11-18
Hm, the permissions appear to be correct...

Is everything else set to 440 in /etc?

---

### Post by styleruk on 2011-11-18
that's a big list, not sure how to put that here as I'm writing this on my windows pc.  They seem to have many different permissions, depending on folder or file. etc itself has the writes drwxr-xr-x 144 root root 12288

---

### Post by Orange_and_Green on 2011-11-18
Then I guess your chmod didn't modify at least the /etc folder - all the permissions would look the same in that case. If you didn't alter sudoers or run visudo, I don't think there is a reason why it should misbehave...

I guess I would revert to my earlier suggestions then...;)

---

### Post by styleruk on 2011-11-18
I did fsck and it made no difference.  I'm struggling to use much at all right now, can't even mount my other drives to backup etc...

I feel a complete re-install is coming up.  Very dissapointing though.

---

### Post by Orange_and_Green on 2011-11-18
I really feel sorry for you, I wish I could be of more help... (at least offers a cookie :popcorn:)


On the bright side, a reinstall need not necessarily be a painful undertaking, if you a) take the precaution to put your /home mount point on a separate partition at install time (if you didn't you'll have to backup I'm afraid though), and b) run
```
dpkg --get-selections > /home/installed_packages

```

and save the installed_packages file to a USB stick or something. That way, after reinstallation,
a) ensures that you have all your data and settings again, and
b) lets you easily reinstall all your programs, just paste the contents of the file after an apt-get install commmand.

---

### Post by styleruk on 2011-11-18
OK, thanks for the good advice though.

Think I'll take the opportunity to buy a bigger drive now.  I have 4 disk drives, one has a xp on virtual box seperate, second one has all my documents backed up, third has all my music.
Think I'll turn my 4th into my user space so it's always there.

thanks for your help

Si

---

