---
title: ".deb package, how does it work?"
date: 2011-12-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by WorBlux on 2011-12-06
I'm trying to come up with an ebuild for gentoo and was wondering if my understanding is close enough to make something that works, or just enough to get me in trouble?


So far I have desisted two .deb packages with ar and tar with the following results.

ar vx <package.deb>
debian-binary
control.tar.gz
data.tar.gz
md5sums

The first seems just like a description.

The second contains various scripts. postinst postrm and prerm, wich I guess to mean post-install post-removal and pre-removal.

The third contains directories following the general *nix file structure with files related to the package.

So I'm guessing that a .deb works by copying the data.tar.gz to the root filesystem and then running the post-install script. 

Removal is done be running the pre-removal script, remoing the files mentioned in the md5sums file, and rounding out with the post-install script.

If I am way off, does anyone know where cliff notes version may be found?

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2011-12-06
Hi,

You're not far off with your assessment, apart from the md5sums file, which just contains md5 checksums for the files in data.tar.gx, rather than a file list for removal.

This is quite a good resource for compiling .deb files: [http://tldp.org/HOWTO/html_single/Debian-Binary-Package-Building-HOWTO/](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/html_single/Debian-Binary-Package-Building-HOWTO/)

---

### Post by WorBlux on 2011-12-06
Thank you for your feedback.

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2011-12-08
You're welcome. If this has answered your question, could you please mark it as [SOLVED] using the **Thread Tools** menu at the top of the page?

Thanks

---

