---
title: "10.04, black screen, kills previous kernel"
date: 2012-01-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kordite on 2012-01-15
I have a Dell Inspiron laptop with 10.04.3 LTS that, after the Ubuntu logo went to a completely black screen and then went to an almost black screen and then sat there. A few reboots and some diagnostics to the same result.

I chose the previous kernel version (2.6.32-36) and it booted but the next time I tried to boot neither the latest nor the previous kernel would boot. 34 booted. Now, none of the previous kernel versions are booting but I was able to get it to boot in low resolution mode. 

I didn't do any more troubleshooting after that and am in the process of backing up data before I proceed. I'm downloading the 10.04 install disk on another PC right now. 

With previous kernels becoming "corrupted" or otherwise no longer working, I'm wondering what my next step should be.

---

### Post by Double.J on 2012-01-15
My instant thought is the graphics driver not the kernel, as it doesn't sound like you're encountering kernel panics, just a total display crash. are you able to boot into recovery mode and start x?

---

### Post by kordite on 2012-01-15
My first thought had been video as well but when I was able to get it to launch with a previous kernel version I rethought that. And then when the kernel version that had worked no longer worked I thought even less that it was video related. And when I launched with low resolution mode it looked exactly like what I had been using, so I wasn't sure what to think.

I launched in recover mode, got to the command prompt, startx and it took a bit longer to come up than it typically would and the little popup window that says I'd connected to my wireless AP looked different but everything was otherwise normal.

Then I rebooted and it came up normally.

I shut down for a minute and booted up again and it was normal again.

Whatever it was, the issue has resolved itself.

Thanks to your psychic support powers you have resolved my issue. :-)

---

