---
title: "9.10 boot issues"
date: 2009-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Scott753 on 2009-11-22
Hello, I'm having some problems with my boot up with grub2 in 9.10 karmic.

For some reason, the normal boot process doesn't work. When I turn on my computer, the grub menu always displays, even though I only have ubuntu as an OS. If I select my kernel, I get a flashing _ icon in the top left corner for several seconds then a blank screen. Also, my keyboard no longer works at this point.

Interestingly, if when I boot up, I instead select my kernel (recovery mode) and then drop to root command line and then type gdm, my computer boots up normally. Also, there seems to be no problem with reboots, which function normally. 

I've searched the forums and so far, no solutions have worked. I've tried editing /boot/grub/grub.cfg to make grub_timeout longer, but no luck.

If anyone has any ideas on what I should do, that'd be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Scott753 on 2009-11-22
bump

---

### Post by jeb800e on 2009-11-22
Next time your screen goes blank and your keyboard becomes "unresponsive". Try the REISUB technique before you even think about "pulling the plug" (if you ever have thought about that). 

Hold down on Alt + SysRq, and type REISUB very slowly, one key at a time [about 2-4 seconds each]while still holding down on Alt + SysRq.

---

### Post by Scott753 on 2009-11-22
My keyboard is unresponsive, so typing doesn't work :(. I'm pretty sure it doesn't work at all, since the num lock and caps lock lights don't work.

---

### Post by Scott753 on 2009-11-22
Also, interesting, I'm getting freezes every once in a while with no keyboard functionality.

I have to do a hard reset.

---

### Post by jeb800e on 2009-11-23
A lot of people think that their keyboard is unresponsive when it's really not. Just try doing the REISUB technique, and if it doesn't work, then that is when you can do a "hard" reset. Or, try pressing down on the power button when it does that, just to see what will happen.

As for the random freezes, Karmic is like that. The best thing to do is just wait it out for the next few weeks to get the bugs fixed out. Just be careful with what applications you use. The ones that seem to freeze up your computer, stop using them or find alternatives.

---

### Post by mechro on 2009-11-23
> **Scott753 said:**
> 
...I've tried editing /boot/grub/grub.cfg to make grub_timeout longer, but no luck.


Did you edit grub.cfg directly? I think you're supposed to edit it via etc/default/grub... 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1302743](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1302743)

---

### Post by Scott753 on 2009-11-23
Thanks for the responses! REISUB does not seem to work, my screen stays blank and I have to do a hard reset. 

I did edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg by changing /etc/default/grub

---

### Post by jeb800e on 2009-11-23
So, your computer is still having problems? Please do a quick explanation of what is fixed and/or what needs to be fixed, if possible! Thanks!

---

### Post by Scott753 on 2009-11-24
Yep, the problem is exactly the same as it was in my first post. Still haven't found a solution. The crashes appear random, as in, not targeted to any specific application, but you're right, I'm hoping that will get worked out in the weeks to come.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-11-24
> **Scott753 said:**
> Hello, I'm having some problems with my boot up with grub2 in 9.10 karmic.

For some reason, the normal boot process doesn't work. When I turn on my computer, the grub menu always displays, even though I only have ubuntu as an OS. If I select my kernel, I get a flashing _ icon in the top left corner for several seconds then a blank screen. Also, my keyboard no longer works at this point.


If anyone has any ideas on what I should do, that'd be greatly appreciated.

Have you made any changes to the video settings, such as putting (or leaving) "vga=XXX" on the GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT= or GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX= lines in /etc/default/grub? If so, try removing them and see if the problem persists. 

Other than that, I don't think the problem is with Grub unless you have some other options on the lines above. It sounds to me like Grub is trying to transfer control and there are problems with the kernel. Otherwise you should get some error messages or the grub prompt.

It might affect things, but then again it shouldn't effect the reboots or keyboard. At least it bumps this thread.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-24
When you are logged in, run;
```

gksudo gedit /etc/grub.d/40_custom

```
Add this to that file an edit to fit your needs;
```

echo "Adding PhatDebian on sda7" >&2 
cat << EOF
menuentry "PhatDebian on sda7" {
        set root=(hd0,7)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda7 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}
EOF
[code]
remember that the drive is counted the same way grub has always counted them, starting with 0.  The partition is counted as gparted does, starting counting with 1.

When you get that edited, save the file as "06_custom".  Then run;
[code]
sudo update-grub

```
This will put that menu entry at the top of your menu on the screen.  It is a great type of entry as it just points the boot loader at a partition and boots the newest kernal it finds.  This is nice as it does not need updated, ever.

The link in my sig has some info on grub2.  The links in my post are great in depth grub2 information.  The first 3 are really great.

---

### Post by jeb800e on 2009-11-25
Have you tried booting Ubuntu from a different kernel from the GRUB menu?

---

### Post by Scott753 on 2009-11-25
Thanks for the replies everyone. 

After doing what everyone suggested, I no longer think the problem is with grub. I think gnome is not loading, for some reason. 

To jeb800e, I only have one kernel installed unfortunately. 

To ranch hand, I did what you suggested and the same problem occurred anyway, with the blank screen and lack of keyboard response.

---

