---
title: "Wacom Intuos 4 with 10.04, not working properly."
date: 2010-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sebastian0000000 on 2010-07-16
Hey all,

I've sifted through the forums, tried various how-to's and still am unable to get my intuos 4 working properly in Ubuntu 10.04x64.

It's recognized as a device, and the driver seems to be loaded however I don't see anything when I type in "wacomcpl".  Furthermore, when I move the pen, it reacts but as soon as I push down on that pad (as a mouse click), it freezes the cursor. When I push down again or push a button it will free the cursor until I release a button. Then it freezes again.

I'm currently using xorg.conf for my configuration.

When I try using "xsetwacom", I receive:
Error (2): WacomConfigOpenDevice: No such device

I've tried compiling and replacing wacom.ko but doesn't seem to affect it.

Any advice would be greatly appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by Favux on 2010-07-16
Hi sebastian0000000,

Welcome to Ubuntu forums!

Could I see your xorg.conf?

---

### Post by sebastian0000000 on 2010-07-17
Hey, thanks for the reply. My xorg.conf is:


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Fri Apr  9 11:51:21 UTC 2010



Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice" 
	Driver "wacom" 
	Identifier "stylus" 
	Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom" # USB ONLY 
	Option "Type" "stylus" 
	Option "USB" "on" # USB ONLY 

EndSection  

Section "InputDevice" 

	Driver "wacom" Identifier "eraser" 
	Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom" # USB ONLY 
	Option "Type" "eraser" 
	Option "USB" "on" # USB ONLY 

EndSection  

Section "InputDevice" 

	Driver "wacom" Identifier "cursor" 
	Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom" # USB ONLY 
	Option "Type" "cursor" 
	Option "USB" "on" # USB ONLY 

EndSection  

# This section is for Intuos3, CintiqV5, Graphire4, or Bamboo without touch 
	Section "InputDevice" 
	Driver "wacom" Identifier "pad" 
	Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom" # USB ONLY 
	Option "Type" "pad" 
	Option "USB" "on" # USB ONLY 
EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Buttons" "7"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier "Evdev Mouse"
    Driver "evdev"
    Option "Name" "PS2++ Logitech MX Mouse"
    Option "CorePointer"
    Option "Device" "/dev/input/event4"
    Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option "Buttons" "10"
    Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"

EndSection


Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer H213H"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTS 250"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Evdev Mouse" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
    InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents" 
    InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents" 
    InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents" # For non-LCD tablets only 
   # InputDevice "touch" "SendCoreEvents" # Only a few TabletPCs support this type 
    InputDevice "pad" # For Intuos3/CintiqV5/Graphire4/Bamboo tablets
EndSection

---

### Post by sebastian0000000 on 2010-07-17
Also, I think it's relevant to add that when I do a "xinput --list" I don't see any wacom related pointers.  It gives me this output: 


xinput --list
&#9121; Virtual core pointer                    	id=2	[master pointer  (3)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Virtual core XTEST pointer              	id=4	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Evdev Mouse                             	id=6	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse              	id=10	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Macintosh mouse button emulation        	id=11	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9123; Virtual core keyboard                   	id=3	[master keyboard (2)]
    &#8627; Virtual core XTEST keyboard             	id=5	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                            	id=7	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                            	id=8	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; AT Translated Set 2 keyboard            	id=9	[slave  keyboard (3)]

---

### Post by Favux on 2010-07-17
Hi sebastian0000000,

The xorg.conf looks ok provided the symlinks provided by 69-xserver-xorg-input-wacom.rules are present.  In Xserver 1.7 you no longer need the "SendCoreEvents" in "ServerLayout".

There is no wacomcpl for Lucid/Xserver 1.7/xf86-input-wacom currently.  We use a xsetwacom script file similar to wacomcpl's .xinitrc.

You probably need to install at least xf86-input-wacom 0.10.7 (.8 is almost out).  Rather than downloading the tar the most up to date way is to clone the git.  The default wacom.ko in Lucid should work for your tablet (but it doesn't seem to be because the tablet isn't showing up in 'xinput --list') so update it too, that will make sure it's in synch with xf86-input-wacom also.

See I. and II. at the [Bamboo HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1515562").  That should get it working.  Then if you want we can work on a xsetwacom script for the Intuos4.

The bad news is the OLED's won't work because Ubuntu dropped support for the usbfs because it conflicts with the new udev.  The LWP knows this so we'll have to see if they come up with something new.

---

### Post by sebastian0000000 on 2010-07-17
Hey Favux,

Thanks for the informative post!  With your help I was able to push the wacom in the right direction. I believe my issue before was that I was installing "linuxwacom" as opposed to "xf86-input-wacom". When I compiled and installed that, it picked up.  I'm looking to change a couple buttons. You mentioned using xsetwacom and a shell script.  Could you elaborate on this?

Thanks much!

---

### Post by Favux on 2010-07-18
Sure.  First we need your 'xinput --list' now that things are working.  And we need to figure out the button mapping.  There's 4 buttons, the speed ring, and 4 more buttons.  I think the speed ring functions as 4 buttons also.  If so we need to figure if those are buttons 5 to 8 on the button map and if the bottom 4 buttons are then 9 to 12.

So you have a stylus with two side buttons and an eraser.  Do you have a cursor (the Wacom tablet mouse)?  And do you want to hotplug the tablet?

---

### Post by Favux on 2010-07-18
If you have an old wacomcpl .xinitrc file around that would be a good start.

---

### Post by sebastian0000000 on 2010-07-19
Hey Favux,

My xinput list is:


&#9121; Virtual core pointer                    	id=2	[master pointer  (3)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Virtual core XTEST pointer              	id=4	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Evdev Mouse                             	id=6	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Wacom Intuos4 6x9 eraser                	id=9	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Wacom Intuos4 6x9 cursor                	id=10	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Wacom Intuos4 6x9 pad                   	id=11	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Wacom Intuos4 6x9                       	id=12	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse              	id=14	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Macintosh mouse button emulation        	id=15	[slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9123; Virtual core keyboard                   	id=3	[master keyboard (2)]
    &#8627; Virtual core XTEST keyboard             	id=5	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                            	id=7	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                            	id=8	[slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; AT Translated Set 2 keyboard            	id=13	[slave  keyboard (3)]


I don't have an old .xinitrc file so I was going to write a bash script with entries like:

xsetwacom set 'Wacom Intuos4 6x9' 'Button1' '1'
xsetwacom set 'Wacom Intuos4 6x9' 'Button2' '3'
xsetwacom set 'Wacom Intuos4 6x9' 'Button3' '2'

What's the best way to find out which buttons are what?  Is there a diagram or is it all trial and error?  Also, I have a wacom mouse but don't really need to use it.  I'd love for hotplugging to work too.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Favux on 2010-07-19
Hi sebastian0000000,

I forgot ceridwen (and others) gave us the button mapping on the Intuos4 thread:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7327894&postcount=95](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7327894&postcount=95)  So if I understand him correctly we're good.

We should be able to set the cursor/mouse up.  Those are my best guesses as to what works.  You'll have to test them out.  I have active the two commands I'm surest of.

Section IV. at the Bamboo HOW TO tells you how to set up the .xsetwacom.sh.  Then you can fine tune it and post the results.

For hotplugging you have to use the 10-wacom.conf at /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d/.  The default should work.  You'll have to comment out (#) the wacom sections in xorg.conf along with the wacom lines in "ServerLayout".  If you want to keep the xorg.conf you need to change the "Device names" back to stylus, eraser, etc.

---

