---
title: "Which option of gcc/g++ compile a source file but do not generate an output file ?"
date: 2011-01-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by anirudhtomer on 2011-01-06
Hi all,

If I compile a C file using gcc and if there are no errors in it then an output file is generated by the name of "a.out".
If there are errors in the source file then no output file is generated.

I want to know the option which I can pass to gcc so that even if there are no errors no output file is generated.

something like gcc --option-I-wanna-know source.c

this would be helpful to me because at times I just want to check if there are errors in the source but I do not want the output file being generated in case there are no errors.

[ If you think I am too much confusing then give me a shout :guitar: ]

thanks in advance

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-01-06
How about
```
gcc source.c -o source && rm source
```
?

Not exactly what you're looking for but it will work.

---

### Post by anirudhtomer on 2011-01-06
even I was using a similar method earlier
```
gcc source.c -o source ; rm source
```

but you know after I saw that GNU make utility have a dry run option I was curious to know if I can use a similar option in gcc

for GNU make the dry run option can be used as
** -n, --just-print, --dry-run, --recon**

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-01-06
I'm not sure what the advantage is of never producing an output file, but you could always just output to /dev/null:

```

gcc -o /dev/null source.c

```

I've never used make's --dry-run option, but the man page indicates it just displays the commands that would be run without running them, so that won't really help. You could of course create a Makefile with an option to output to /dev/null, say by typing "make null". That would *not* be able to test proper linking, though.

---

