---
title: "12.04 Empathy Status Default = Offline"
date: 2012-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by guimaster on 2012-05-24
Greetings,

 Surprisingly, I cannot find an answer to this question via Google. I guess I must be the first person to ask this question, or perhaps I am just not wording my searches correctly?

 When I boot Ubuntu 12.04, my Status in the Chat Menu (Envelope Menu) always defaults to "Offline." Is it possible to cause it to default to "Available?" I hate having to remember to change this setting every time I boot up.

 The funny thing is, if I add Empathy to the Startup Applications menu, Empathy will load up showing "Available" yet the Chat Menu with the Envelope icon will still default to "Offline" but in this case it becomes impossible to change it to "Available".

I have now been able to get usr/bin/empathy -h to work properly as a Startup Application, so perhaps that's the best we can expect?

---

### Post by Keronn on 2012-07-06
Hi
> **guimaster said:**
> I have now been able to get usr/bin/empathy -h to work properly as a Startup Application, so perhaps that's the best we can expect?

I found a bug repport for gnome-shell :
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-shell/+bug/1006605]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-shell/+bug/1006605")

Indeed, empathy -h at startup seems the best solution for now, to update the status (Envelope) icon to "Online" by default. It works both in gnome-shell and unity.

---

### Post by fixed4life on 2013-02-14
You need to delay the start up until the message center starts..

Try something like this... 

mkdir ~/scripts

nano ~/scripts/start_empathy.sh
```

#!/bin/bash

sleep 10

empathy -h &

exit 0

```

chmod +x ~/scripts/start_empathy.sh

then in the "Startup Applications" app

replace "empathy -h" with "~/scripts/start_empathy.sh"

That should do it...

---

