---
title: "8.04: no sounds from kopete, pidgin"
date: 2008-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kjkrum on 2008-05-05
I'm getting absolutely no sound from either Kopete or Pidgin.  I tried all the suggestions for getting sound working in Kopete (set Kopete to use the KDE sound system [it already was], forced the KDE sound system to ALSA, restarted Kopete).  Kopete has sound events enabled and sounds associated with those events.

The audio hardware is not being hogged by anything.  The KDE test sound and system sounds can play while Amarok is playing.

Everything is set to use ALSA.

Pidgin won't even play test sounds.

Grrrr....

---

### Post by kjkrum on 2008-07-02
Seems to be application-level bugs on which no progress is being made.  I got sound working in Kopete by switching it and the system sound daemon to OSS and then back to ALSA, but it's only a temporary fix; it'll work for a few hours, then I'll hear a "pop" from the speakers, and no more sounds will play from Kopete until X is restarted.  Other applications continue to produce sounds normally.

The only working solution I've found is the GAIM option to use an external program to play sounds -- 'aplay %s'.

PulseAudio was never even installed on my system.  I was never asked about it.  Major, major inconsistencies with sound this release...

---

### Post by abbasali on 2008-08-21
Another solution i found is to install the gstreamer. Kubuntu by default does not install gstreamer and pidgin uses it to output sounds. I installed gstreamer [Movie Player (GStreamer) in Add/Remove Programs) and got the sound working.

---

