---
title: "Where is my xorg.conf, I don't see it in /etc/X11"
date: 2010-04-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nzdreamer55 on 2010-04-18
I'm running mythbuntu 9.10.  When I look in the /etc/X11 directory I don't see this file.  Could it be hidden?  How would I unhide it?

Thanks
Steve

---

### Post by nitstorm on 2010-04-18
i just found my xorg.conf in /usr/share/xresprobe/xorg.conf

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2010-04-18
Ubuntu 9.10 doesn't come with an xorg.conf, which is strange I know.

To make one please follow these instructions.

Paste these commands into Terminal to create a new Xorg.conf, that should now have created a new xconfig file.

Step 1 runs the NVIDIA utility to generate a new xorg.conf file that the utility can actually read.
**> sudo nvidia-xconfig**

Step 2 runs the graphical NVIDIA setup tool as root, so you can actually save your changes.
**> sudo nvidia-settings**

Please let me know if you need further help with this.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-04-18
> **nzdreamer55 said:**
> I'm running mythbuntu 9.10.  When I look in the /etc/X11 directory I don't see this file.  Could it be hidden?  How would I unhide it?

With recent version of the xserver you don't have one by default, and may not need one. The xserver can autodetect hardware and apply appropriate settings automatically in most cases. If you have special requirements you can create one, which will be read when the xserver starts. Similarly, if you install proprietary video drivers an xorg.conf will be generated.

---

### Post by klemes on 2010-04-18
With the  newest xorg server used in Ubuntu 9.10 there is no need for an xorg.conf,but the required modules for the detected hardware are loaded dynamically courtesy of hal.
If for some reason you need one then you must make one manually and place it in /etc/X11/,or b. use sudo X -configure to make one automatically for you or c. use a graphics card specific program provided by the card manufacturer,such as nvidia-xconfig if you have an nVIDIA videocard for example.

---

### Post by nzdreamer55 on 2010-04-18
Thanks everyone for the help.  Still new to Linux so please let me know if you see something wrong.

So I copied the command line into a terminal window **sudo nvidia-xconfig,** however it replyed sudo: nvidia-xconfig: command not found.  I then su to root and tried again

htpc@htpc:~$ su
Password: 
root@htpc:/home/htpc# nvidia-xconfig
The program 'nvidia-xconfig' can be found in the following packages:
 * nvidia-glx-173
 * nvidia-glx-185
 * nvidia-glx-96
Try: apt-get install <selected package>

Should I use the apt-get to install one of the packages so that I can create a xorg.conf file?

The reason that I am trying to make a xorg.conf file is that my graphic card has a TV out that I want to force my computer to use.  This computer is a HTPC and so far only work through the TV out while the computer is booting (i.e. the computer BIOS is running things).  There are several other forums that have talked about doing this (none are fool proof or work all the time), but the first step seems to be to have a xorg.conf file for the TV settings.

The card I have is a ATI Radeon 7500 AGP 32MB.  It's low end on an old machine, but it is all I have to work with to learn Linux and setup a HTPC.

Thanks again for everyone's help.
Steve

---

### Post by klemes on 2010-04-18
First  I want to tell you that I have never had an ATI card so I have no real world experience with these cards,but from what I hear they are not so easy to setup under Linux.Having said that I will simply inform you that there are three video drivers for ATI video cards:
-radeon : open source 2D acceleration driver
-radeonhd : some 3D acceleration
and
-fglrx : proprietary ATI driver with 3D acceleration 

Also I think fglrx provides a utility for making the correct xorg.conf file for your card called aticonfig.

P.S. forget these drivers you mentioned and nvidia-xconfig. These are for NVIDIA only cards.
That's all the information I can provide at the moment .For guidance about installing fglrx best google it up or make a request in this forum.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-04-18
You don't need one, but if you want one to make customizations, run
```
gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf.failsafe
```
Then copy/paste/save this:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video"
	Driver		"radeon"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video"
EndSection
```
Now you can make your modifications, and when you're done, save as xorg.conf. This way you'll have a backup, and if you get stuck in recovery mode, you can just drop to a prompt and:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.failsafe /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-04-18
> **klemes said:**
> For guidance about installing fglrx best google it up or make a request in this forum.

The Radeon 7500 was dropped from fglrx/Catalyst a long time ago (and the card was never supported by radeonhd). There's only one accelerated driver choice (ati/radeon) and it's pre-installed and used by default.

---

### Post by nzdreamer55 on 2010-04-18
> **Temüjin said:**
> The Radeon 7500 was dropped from fglrx/Catalyst a long time ago (and the card was never supported by radeonhd). There's only one accelerated driver choice (ati/radeon) and it's pre-installed and used by default.

Thanks Temüjin and klemes.

So, from what you both have said, because my card is the ATI Radeon 7500, I cannot use fglrx/Catalyst to make a specific xorg.conf file, but I can make one myself from the code Temujin provided to get my TV out to be forced on?

Or are you saying that I no matter what I do with this card, I won't be able to get the TV out forced to be on under linux.

Thank you again and I really appreciate the help, keep in mind that I am really new to linux so I don't always get it.

Thanks.
Steve

---

