---
title: "19.04: How to Hibernate?"
date: 2019-11-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-11-26
I'm running Lubuntu 19.04 on an HP/Compaq 6910p and have a problem with the Hibernate function, both from Menu and from Lid switch.
I've installed a swap file using the following commands:


```

macro@macro-pc:~$ sudo fallocate -l 4G /zzswap
macro@macro-pc:/$ sudo chmod 600 /zzswap
macro@macro-pc:/$ sudo mkswap /zzswap
mkswap: /zzswap: warning: wiping old swap signature.
Setting up swapspace version 1, size = 4 GiB (4294963200 bytes)
no label, UUID=690679cd-eef4-4220-9729-c5ab637e0d47
macro@macro-pc:/$ sudo swapon /zzswap
macro@macro-pc:/$ sudo free -h
              total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
Mem:          3.8Gi       806Mi       1.0Gi       101Mi       2.0Gi       2.6Gi
Swap:         4.0Gi          0B       4.0Gi

macro@macro-pc:/$ sudo swapon --show
NAME    TYPE SIZE USED PRIO
/zzswap file   4G   0B   -2

macro@macro-pc:/$ sudo free -h
              total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
Mem:          3.8Gi       793Mi       1.0Gi        92Mi       2.0Gi       2.6Gi
Swap:         4.0Gi          0B       4.0Gi

```

I assume from these responses from BASH that the swap file is correctly set up.

It doesn't work, though. Neither from the LXQt GUI, nor from modifying /etc/systems/logind.conf.

I have a feeling that I'm missing a step here (perhaps making the system aware of the swapfile), but am lost.

Any help is appreciated.

Thank You.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-11-27
Correction:
I meant /etc/systemd/logind.conf

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-11-28
Having swap space is one thing, but to enable hibernation you need more. Maybe this helps: [https://askubuntu.com/questions/1053134/hibernation-in-18-04](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1053134/hibernation-in-18-04)

I think you might need an actual swap partition to hibernate, not a swap file. There have been some problems with hibernation, as it doesn't always work on all hardware, so it's disabled by default. Hibernation also comes with some security problems.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-11-28
I think you're right, the swapfile approach has not been successful. I'll try with a swap partition.

Thank you.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-03
Stiil trying to get Hibernation to work.

I've created a new swap partition (6144 GB, RAM is 4096 GB) which should be large enough. The limited size is on purpose, as I don't want multiple RAM images on the swap partition.

Partitioning and making the swap file was no problem, enabling it with 'swapon' also easy. Here's the list from the terminal:

```
macro@macro-pc:~$ sudo lsblk -f
NAME   FSTYPE LABEL UUID                                 FSAVAIL FSUSE% MOUNTPOINT
sda                                                                     
&#9500;&#9472;sda1 ext4         0f96d4bd-84f6-431e-8120-a4a89244ac8d  191,4G     5% /
&#9492;&#9472;sda2 swap         9f526df8-85d8-47cf-ac66-90a7e93ed117                [SWAP]
sr0                                                                     
macro@macro-pc:~$ sudo blkid
/dev/sda1: UUID="0f96d4bd-84f6-431e-8120-a4a89244ac8d" TYPE="ext4" PARTUUID="29871d3c-d85a-44e9-8d1e-9ab200915860"
/dev/sda2: UUID="9f526df8-85d8-47cf-ac66-90a7e93ed117" TYPE="swap" PARTUUID="66a11880-fac7-4967-859e-f43d0cc9f1e1"
macro@macro-pc:~$ sudo swapon -s
Filename                                Type            Size    Used    Priority
/dev/sda2                               partition       6291532 0       -2
macro@macro-pc:~$ 


```

This all looks fine. But Hibernation still doesn't work. I'm aware of the "resume" parameters in 'grub' and 'initramfs'. but they are only relevant when resuming...or?

Any input is highly appreciated. Thank You.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-05
90% solved :)

I'm wiser and have lerned alot.

My system will now hibernate using 'sudo 'systemctl hibernate' and also resume the previous session with all programs.

Here's the recipe:

1: repartition your HDD/SSD to make a swap partition that's as large or larger than your RAM. In my case it's **/dev/sda2**

2: make a swap partition using **sudo mkswap /dev/sda2**

3: execute **sudo swapon /dev/sda2**

4: verify the partition with **sudo lsblk** and **sudo blkid** and copy the UUID of **/dev/sda2**  

5: configure initramfs by creating (or editing) **/etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume** to contain the following line: **RESUME=UUID=***yourswapUUID*

6: modify **/etc/default/grub** by adding **resume=UUID=***yourswapUUID* within the quotes in **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=**"quiet splash ..."

7: execute [B]sudo update-grub
[/B]
8: reboot

9: update policies by creating (or editing) **/etc/polkit-1/localauthority/50-local.d/com.ubuntu.enable-hibernate.pkla** with the following content:


 ```
Re-enable hibernate by default in upower]
Identity=unix-user:*
Action=org.freedesktop.upower.hibernate
ResultActive=yes

 [Re-enable hibernate by default in logind]
Identity=unix-user:*
Action=org.freedesktop.login1.hibernate;org.freedesktop.login1.handle-hibernate-key;org.freedesktop.login1;org.freedesktop.login1.hibernate-multiple-sessions;org.freedesktop.login1.hibernate-ignore-inhibit
ResultActive=yes
```


10: reboot



With this recipe Hibernate works on my laptop, but with a couple of annoyances:
1: Hibernate is apparently partially under the control of XScreenSaver, which means you'll get some funky screens when hibernating and restarting. I can live with that :)
2: Restarting after hibernate brings up the GRUB-boot menu, which is unwanted (for me). Editing /etc/default/grub and adding GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER=true only brings joy by the first restore. Subsequent restores bring up the grub menu again.

I've not tested the "lid" hibernate yet, but am confident it will work. Editing **/etc/systemd/logind.conf **should work

I hope this is useful :)

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-07
Update:

Opening "Preferences -> LXQt Settings -> Power Management" from the Start Menu and choosing 'Lid', Hibernate now works after enabling it.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-12-07
Support for 19.04 ends in about 1 month. 
Time to move to 19.10 and plan your move to 20.04 when it is released. I always wait a few months before moving to the next LTS, so think "June".

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-08
> **TheFu said:**
> Support for 19.04 ends in about 1 month. 
Time to move to 19.10 and plan your move to 20.04 when it is released. I always wait a few months before moving to the next LTS, so think "June".

Thanks for the tip. My 19.04 is now completely stable, so I think I'll skip 19.10 and wait for 20.04 LTS. As you say, June '20.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-12-08
> **ml9104 said:**
> Thanks for the tip. My 19.04 is now completely stable, so I think I'll skip 19.10 and wait for 20.04 LTS. As you say, June '20.

That's not the way to go. Don't use unsupported systems. "Appears to be perfect" is not the same as "is perfect". When you use the interim releases, you have to move on every six months. So for me, December and June are upgrade months.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-12-08
> **ml9104 said:**
> Thanks for the tip. My 19.04 is now completely stable, so I think I'll skip 19.10 and wait for 20.04 LTS. As you say, June '20.

That really isn't an option.   [https://ubuntu.com/about/release-cycle](https://ubuntu.com/about/release-cycle) 

Last week, there were some issues with some security software used by many, many, people.  It impacted multiple programs.   Unsupported releases didn't get the patches to fix it and will be forever vulnerable.  If you choose not to be on a supported release.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-08
OK, OK, I hear you. I'm just nervous about breaking something that works.

---

