---
title: "11.04 - Could not download the release notes"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wefallaround on 2011-04-28
Hi - 

I get this message when clicking the upgrade button in Update manager. I am attempting to upgrade from 10.10. The full message is as follows:

**Could Not Download the release notes**
Please check your internet connection

Any ideas? My internet connection is fine on that machine, I just updated packages on it seconds before I saw 11.04 was available and can also browse and such

---

### Post by samhalliday on 2011-04-28
I'm having exactly the same problem with a full internet connection, trying to upgrade from 10.10

Any ideas?

Sam

---

### Post by tufu5 on 2011-04-28
I am getting the same error and also can't check for updates, I will try again later today.

---

### Post by kree8or on 2011-04-28
I was getting the same message, but then it started working...but then when it came to downloading the packages, it failed.

---

### Post by ChrisWells on 2011-04-28
I'm getting really slow d/l speeds for updates/software centre. It's obviously where it's just been released must be under load

---

### Post by kree8or on 2011-04-28
Just managed to get to the "download upgrade tool" and it failed. the servers must be under too much strain. i'll try again later.

---

### Post by xdragonforce on 2011-04-28
Don't Worry!

Because of the new release of 11.04, almost every Ubuntu user will be trying to download it. Just try again every 5-10 minutes and you may get a lucky spot when the servers are less full!

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-04-28
> **xdragonforce said:**
> Don't Worry!

Because of the new release of 11.04, almost every Ubuntu user will be trying to download it. Just try again every 5-10 minutes and you may get a lucky spot when the servers are less full!

Yup. I never try to do updates or download the install image on the release date. The servers will be bogged down by all of the requests.

Those who have the means should torrent the image and seed it to make things easier for everyone.

---

### Post by irvingswiftj86 on 2011-04-28
I'm having the same problem.....i think i should just learn to have some patience!

---

### Post by tuxsheadache on 2011-04-28
I am having the same issue.

I am generally pro P2P as an easy way to transfer data compared to servers to users, however if I downloaded the new version, would I be able to do an upgrade? Or would it be a format/ fresh install?

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-28
Use Bit Torrent to get the ISO - then you can use the upgrade option from the LiveCD/LiveUSB you create from the ISO:

[IMG]http://img848.imageshack.us/img848/874/upgradetonatty.png[/IMG]


Also - you can load Natty/11.04 and still use the 'Classic’ UI: [**_Natty Info: Your UI options_**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741293")


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by ups on 2011-04-28
The alternate upgrade methods (including using torrents) are explained here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NattyUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NattyUpgrades)

---

### Post by DrDeo on 2011-04-29
Go into Update Manager/Settings/Ubuntu Software and change the download server.

Worth a try. It worked for me.

---

### Post by xdragonforce on 2011-04-30
> **tuxsheadache said:**
> I am having the same issue.

I am generally pro P2P as an easy way to transfer data compared to servers to users, however if I downloaded the new version, would I be able to do an upgrade? Or would it be a format/ fresh install?

If you downloaded the fresh .iso you would havve to format and reinstall from the live cd.

---

### Post by beeny on 2011-05-27
Run sudo apt-get update && apt-get upgrade. It's because you're stuff is too outdated!

---

