---
title: "Video player error !!"
date: 2004-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kite on 2004-10-24
Good evening everybody,

I have just installed the Ubuntu version, and I Have to face a big problem.
When I want to read a video file (ex: toto.avi - Divx file), my video is black and I can only hear the song of the film.

To read this file, I have begun to read with the totem software, which is by default in the ubuntu version. But It didn't work !!!

So I have downloaded Mplayer, xine and  gxine too. 
I have compiled each software, and I have tried each one.
I have obtained a crash of my system. More precisely, my graphic view of ubuntu crashed and after the system asked me to enter again my login and my password.

If somebody knows the answer of my problem, please tell me the solution !!!!!

 [-o<  [-o<

---

### Post by SqdnGuns on 2004-10-24
Probably can be found in the "How-To" section of the forum........ 

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=15](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=15)

---

### Post by Kite on 2004-10-28
Sorry, 

But I have follow the pocedure, and I have always the bug.

---

### Post by Rancoras on 2004-10-28
What are your system specs?

---

### Post by Kite on 2004-10-28
I send you by mail the log of my XFREE86.0.log file

I can't explain the trouble, because when I try to read an avi file, I obtain a black screen, and the server X restart. Maybe the range of the screen ?????

---

### Post by moon2js on 2004-10-28
I'm having the exact same problem when I try to watch something in mplayer. And actually, I've found that the screen is blue when viewing windowed, but if I switch to full screen, the picture is visible, but it's not aligned correctly.

The video source is flipped with a big fat blue column going down the screen. The oringal video's left is displayed on the right of the column and the right is on the left of the column. So it's pretty much unwatchable.

Anyone encounter this or know how to fix it?

I followed the Ubuntu Multimedia HOWTO precisely, and this is what happened. Totem refuses to load anything.

Oh, and I'm running a fresh Ubuntu install on a PIII laptop.

---

### Post by Rancoras on 2004-10-28
[QUOTE=Kite]I send you by mail the log of my XFREE86.0.log file

I can't explain the trouble, because when I try to read an avi file, I obtain a black screen, and the server X restart. Maybe the range of the screen ?????[/QUOTE]

No what hardware do you have in your system?  Processor, motherboard, etc.

---

### Post by Kite on 2004-10-29
Here is a web link about my laptop
[Laptop specification](http://h200003.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/Document.jsp?objectID=thp00563&locale=fr_FR&taskId=101&prodSeriesId=31647&prodTypeId=321957) 

Here is a copy of my XF86Config-4 file.

[COLOR=DarkSlateBlue]
# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"speedo"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load	"xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xfree86"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"fr"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Silicon Motion, Inc. SM710 LynxEM4"
	Driver		"siliconmotion"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Écran générique"
	HorizSync	28-49
	VertRefresh	43-72
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Silicon Motion, Inc. SM710 LynxEM4"
	Monitor		"Écran générique"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by moon2js on 2004-10-31
I had the exact same problem. Totem won't play anything, audio or video and just gives an unhelpful error message saying, "Failed to open; reason unknown." I installed mplayer, and it can play audio, but it won't display the picture on video files correctly.

I don't know where to start to look to figure out what is wrong. I followed the multimedia howto to the letter, and I've got all this working in Mandrake previously, so I don't who why it's misbehaving now.

In Mandrake I got video playing quite well with xine and Kaffeine, but I can't get xine to even install on Ubuntu.

Anyone have any suggestions?

---

### Post by ToWAH on 2004-10-31
[QUOTE=moon2js]I had the exact same problem. Totem won't play anything, audio or video and just gives an unhelpful error message saying, "Failed to open; reason unknown." I installed mplayer, and it can play audio, but it won't display the picture on video files correctly.

I don't know where to start to look to figure out what is wrong. I followed the multimedia howto to the letter, and I've got all this working in Mandrake previously, so I don't who why it's misbehaving now.

In Mandrake I got video playing quite well with xine and Kaffeine, but I can't get xine to even install on Ubuntu.

Anyone have any suggestions?[/QUOTE]
same here and xine compiling say:
****************************************************************
WARNING! No X11 output plugins will be built.

For some reason, the requirements for building the X11 video
output plugins are not met. That means, that you will NOT be
able to use the resulting xine-lib to watch videos in a window
on any X11-based display (e.g. your desktop).

If this is not what you want, provide the necessary X11 build
dependencies (usually done by installing a package called
XFree86-devel or similar) and run configure again.
****************************************************************

WTF 

 :confused:

---

### Post by moon2js on 2004-10-31
Here are some of the error messages I get when I run things from terminal:

Totem:
> ** (totem:4829): WARNING **: don't know how to handle video/mpeg, mpegversion=(int)1, systemstream=(boolean)false

** (totem:4829): WARNING **: don't know how to handle audio/mpeg, mpegversion=(int)1

Gmplayer:

> Reading /home/james/.mplayer/codecs.conf: Can't open '/home/james/.mplayer/codecs.conf': No such file or directory
Reading /usr/local/etc/mplayer/codecs.conf: 73 audio & 180 video codecs
Font /usr/local/share/mplayer/font/font.desc loaded successfully! (206 chars)
Linux RTC init error in ioctl (rtc_irqp_set 1024): Permission denied
Try adding "echo 1024 > /proc/sys/dev/rtc/max-user-freq" to your system startup scripts.
Using usleep() timing
Can't open input config file /home/james/.mplayer/input.conf: No such file or directory

> Could not find matching colorspace - retrying with -vf scale...
Opening video filter: [scale]
The selected video_out device is incompatible with this codec.
VDecoder init failed :

---

### Post by ra1 on 2005-01-16
[QUOTE=Kite]Here is a web link about my laptop
[Laptop specification](http://h200003.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/Document.jsp?objectID=thp00563&locale=fr_FR&taskId=101&prodSeriesId=31647&prodTypeId=321957) 
[/QUOTE]
Your laptop uses siliconmotion video driver which doesn't support xv. I had the same problem with my omnibook xe2. The solution is to use ```
mplayer -vo xv -vop yuy2
```

---

