---
title: "11.10 Upgrade gone horribly wrong"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by madebyjordan on 2011-10-13
Halp. Long story short this happened:

Downloaded the ISO, booted from pen drive, selected the Upgrade option from 11.04, an error popped up, i clicked back and waited for the installation to cancel. Now it's saying something to the effect of "there is no recognisable OS".

I can see from the partition options that my old swap file is still there and I can see all my old files here on the live CD which I want to keep.

My question to you is where can I proceed from here to upgrade and keep my files?

Many thanks,
Jordan

---

### Post by kolinab on 2011-10-13
Jordan,

I would wait for another person to wade into this first before you do anything drastic, but what I would do is:

1 - boot into a live session like you have done, and BACK UP your files to a separate location. Back up the whole /home folder if you can. Make two backups if you can. Check the backup before you rely on it!

Then I would:

2 - Install 11.10 from scratch, rather than upgrade. When installing, I would set up the partitions so that your /home folder can be on its own partition. Once you have that install working you can copy your backed up /home files back to the new partition you created.

Setting up my partitions so that /home is on its own partition has saved me hours and hours of trouble over the years. Look for info here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving)

Let us know how it goes for you and post back with any problems!

Kolin

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2011-10-13
Backup, Backup, Backup, Test the Backups, make sure everything is fine. And only then do a full install.
Definitely the best advice IMHO. It's easy to mess around with an HDD when we play with partitions, grub, arrays, etc.

Regards,
Effenberg

---

### Post by madebyjordan on 2011-10-13
Thanks guys, I'll keep you updated with how I'm getting on. I don't have any backup media that would allow me to back up the amount of stuff I want to keep so I made a new partition with the live CD and I'm sending my home directory there as we speak.

Then hopefully I'll be able to install Ubuntu onto the old partition and use this new one as my home directory and everything will be ok... hopefully :)

Many thanks!
Jordan

---

