---
title: ".dmrc written from openSuse not compatible with ubuntu ?"
date: 2016-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gizmo11 on 2016-07-04
Hi there,
we have computer pools where about 1000 users can login. On a maschine is openSuse and Ubuntu installed. The users choose over the boot manager, which system to start. The home directory from each user is on a nfs-file-system. So does'nt matter, which OS the user starts, the home directory is the same in openSuse and ubuntu.

There is a strange problem with the .dmrc file. When a user was logged in in openSuse and then tries to login into ubuntu, the login does'nt work. There is no error message at all, it just behaves like the user entered the wrong password.
After the user deleted his .dmrc file, the login works again.
Only ubuntu has problems with the .dmrc file, when the user was logged in in openSuse before. openSuse has no problems, when the user was logged in in ubuntu.
We checked the content of the .dmrc file, the rights, we couldn't find something strange. It's also not easy to reproduce, there are a lot of users, where this problem does'nt happen. We compared everything between users, where the error happens and other users where it does'nt, we did not find a difference.

Anybody an idea ?

thanks in advance

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-07-04
I am a bit surprised that you do not get more problems if you have a shared /home for Ubuntu and Suse, but that aside for the moment, can you show us the output of ```
cat .dmrc
ls -la .dmrc
``` from both Ubuntu and Suse which might give us some clues as to why you get this problem.

The content of mine is 
```
[Desktop]
Session=xubuntu
```
so I am not sure how that would work in a Suse environment, and the permissions are
```
-rw-r--r-- 1 *username username* 27 Dec  9  2014 .dmrc
```

---

### Post by gizmo11 on 2016-07-05
hi there,
thanks for your reply.

after login in openSuse (kde) the .dmrc has the content

[Desktop] 
Session=default

then a login into ubuntu (unity) is for some users only possible, after they deleted the .dmrc,
other users have no problems

the content of the .dmrc is then

[Desktop] 
Session=ubuntu

when you try to login into openSuse again, openSuse says something like "the ubuntu-session is not valid anymore"
and starts with kde and rewrites the .dmrc to "Session=default"

the .dmrc has always the rights rw-r--r--

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-07-05
Well that shows, I think, that it is the content of the .dmrc file that is causing the problem, but if you must keep the shared  home I am not sure how you can overcome this as Session=ubuntu will never be possible in Suse.  Maybe there is a way to get Session=default to work in Ubuntu which might solve your problem; unfortunately, that is beyond my ability to help you.

To stop any further problems occurring I suggest that you should use a shared data partition/folder and keep home for each OS within the OS's own root partition, adding symbolic links from the few configuration folders that you will want to share, such as .mozilla and .thunderbird if you use FF and TBird.  That way there will be a different and separate .dmrc file for each of the OSs in its own home folder.

---

