---
title: "8.10 lockups"
date: 2009-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dave31175 on 2009-05-07
With no changes to the system, 8.10 started locking up randomly yesterday evening. It locks up frequently enough it's now unusable. 2 dotted lines appear across the full width of the screen near the bottom. Keyboard and mouse are completely unresponsive and I have no choice but to power down. 

I wondered this morning if upgrading to 9.04 would correct whatever the problem is, however it locked up while downloading new packages. I'm not sure I really even want to "upgrade" -- it warned me that my graphics performance would be seriously degraded, and I really don't want to go back to 1024x768 as it was before installing the graphics driver it warned me against. (Maybe that's causing problems? However, it's been working flawlessly for weeks with that driver...)

Any suggestions? I don't even know where to begin troubleshooting.

---

### Post by krishna_iyer on 2009-05-07
I had a similar problem with the 8.1 32 bit.. The system would arbitrarily freeze...

I had red somewhere on the internet that it is due to the CPU power scaling. Try turning it off and it may ease your pain.

I have since moved to the 64 bit version of v8.1 and that does not seem to have the freeze problem even with the CPU scaling on.

Cheers

---

### Post by dave31175 on 2009-05-07
> **krishna_iyer said:**
> I had red somewhere on the internet that it is due to the CPU power scaling. Try turning it off and it may ease your pain.
Thanks for the suggestion, however this doesn't seem to be the case. I ran the command here -- [http://www.tectonic.co.za/?p=2560](http://www.tectonic.co.za/?p=2560) -- to see if my CPU supports scaling, and got a response of "no such file or directory". Additionally, I'm running 8.10 on a desktop PC -- isn't scaling a feature of laptops/notebooks?

---

### Post by dave31175 on 2009-05-08
Whatever the problem is, now I can't even boot :( I get about 10% of the orange line, then it freezes. I guess this would be a good time for a clean install of 9.04.

---

### Post by dave31175 on 2009-05-08
The plot thickens. I can't boot 9.04 Ubuntu LIVE from the CD. It locks up while the little blip is going back and forth under the logo. I was hoping to run LIVE and copy some files off to a second HD before doing an install. But if I can't even run LIVE, I don't have much hope of a successful install do I? 

Any ideas?

---

