---
title: "(11.04) I farcked my boot file: please help swiftly."
date: 2011-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KebertX on 2011-11-13
So, earlier today I did this:

```
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.39-020639rc4-generic_2.6.39-020639rc4.201104191410_i386.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.39-020639rc4_2.6.39-020639rc4.201104191410_all.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/linux-image-2.6.39-020639rc4-generic_2.6.39-020639rc4.201104191410_i386.deb
```Because it was supposed to "upgrade my kernel." I now have a grudge against [bmbaker]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1088611") for posting those in another thread, but we can deal with that some other time.

I'm assuming this isn't actually a bad set of files, because it's ubuntu.com. However, after I did this:

```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```I got four or five system errors, it told me it couldn't install flgrx,  offered to let me submit some reports, and by the end, it told me to  restart my computer. I did. I haven't seen my login screen since. My screen went purple, but didn't show the ubuntu logo. Then it was blank. It flashed between powered off and blank a few times, and stuck on a glowing black screen. :confused: It did that every time I started up.

Luckily, I was able to boot from my original 11.04 cd. Unluckily, I'm reckless and foolhardy. All my personal files are in /media/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx, so I stop sweating that. But there is something wrong with the boot directory, obviously. So, I go to /boot and I sort the files by date modified. I look at "initrd.img-2.6.39-020639rc-generic" which had been added earlier that day. I immediately diagnose it as my problem, and do this:

```
ubuntu@ubuntu sudo rm -f /media/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/boot/initrd.img-2.6.39-020639rc-generic
```First, I must say I am SHOCKED that I was even allowed to do that, but what the frack ever. Now when I reboot it says "File Not Found (Press any key to continue_)" The Any Key doesn't do anything. Now my computer is messed up, and I am lost.

Please tell me what the hell I should do now. I can edit everything in my filesystem, so what do I do to fix my boot-up problem?

Working from the installation cd. DO NOT Tell me to reinstall ununtu, I have a good 122 GBs of personal data, I will not compromise one byte of it!

I am lonely and scared, please help.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-11-13
Can you get to the Grub menu or grub prompt? From there you may be able to boot into an older kernel that still resides on your Ubuntu partition.

If you know what kernels you have and get a Grub menu, you can press 'e' to edit the menuentry and try changing the value of the kernel version on the 'linux' and 'initrd' lines, using cursor arrors to navigate the entry. Then CTRL-x to boot. 

If you aren't sure what kernels are still available, get to a grub prompt by typing 'c' from the Grub menu, and type the following. Substitute X for the drive number starting with 0, and Y for the Ubuntu partition, starting with 1.  (i.e. sda5 would be hd0,5)

```
ls (hdX,Y)/boot
```

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2011-11-13
Linux assumes you know what your doing. You can't blame the OS for your screw-ups. OH! and if you blame someone else then you are just looking for an out. 

I can't believe you would do what you did without researching first. 

[SIZE=4]The shame is on you[/SIZE] don't you try to blame some one else for your inabilities.

---

### Post by Cyclane on 2011-11-13
I believe you started with a graphical problem (caused by installing fglrx) but when you deleted your kernel (as superuser you can do everything, that's why it's called SUPERuser) you broke your system.

Like suggested above, try to boot  with an older kernel, if that's possible you'll probably return to the black screen. From here try to access vty1 by pressing Ctrl+atl+F1.

Tell us if your able to do so, so we can continue from there.

---

### Post by Cyclane on 2011-11-13
> **KebertX said:**
> So, earlier today I did this:

```
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.39-020639rc4-generic_2.6.39-020639rc4.201104191410_i386.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.39-020639rc4_2.6.39-020639rc4.201104191410_all.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/linux-image-2.6.39-020639rc4-generic_2.6.39-020639rc4.201104191410_i386.deb
```Because it was supposed to "upgrade my kernel." I now have a grudge against [bmbaker]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1088611") for posting those in another thread, but we can deal with that some other time.


You can't possibly blame him for this, like you mentioned you where prompted about fglrx, I wouldn't be surprised if there was a fglrx deb package in your PWD when you tried to install the above.

---

### Post by KebertX on 2011-11-13
To clarify, I am not seriously blaming that other guy, because as far as I can tell he didn't do anything wrong. I'm aware this is my fault, that's why I used the word "I" in the topic. Moving on...

---

### Post by KebertX on 2011-11-13
> **drs305 said:**
> Can you get to the Grub menu or grub prompt? From there you may be able to boot into an older kernel that still resides on your Ubuntu partition.

If you know what kernels you have and get a Grub menu, you can press 'e' to edit the menuentry and try changing the value of the kernel version on the 'linux' and 'initrd' lines, using cursor arrors to navigate the entry. Then CTRL-x to boot. 

If you aren't sure what kernels are still available, get to a grub prompt by typing 'c' from the Grub menu, and type the following. Substitute X for the drive number starting with 0, and Y for the Ubuntu partition, starting with 1.  (i.e. sda5 would be hd0,5)

```
ls (hdX,Y)/boot
```

[I see you put up a nice HOWTO for this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818177"), I doubt that I can get a response of any sort from my computer if I reboot from my hard drive again, but give me a moment. . .

---

