---
title: "7.10 keep losing the prefered settings"
date: 2007-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by the_zoor on 2007-10-21
[FONT=Arial][COLOR=Black]Hi!

I've just updated from 7.04 to 7.10. No big problems during the upgrade really. Only things I'm not satisfied with so far is 2 things. And I cant find the solution on the forum to my question. My problems is listed below.

1.) My touchpad on my laptop isn't as sensitive as before. Everything is running slowly. Really slow. I mean I have to press down the entire pad ( feels like it ) to even get a respons. And the tapping is horriblie slopw as well. I've tried to install qsynaptics and got it to work alittle better. But still not even nearly as good as it did work before.

2.) Ubuntu keep forgett my settings. If I change my settings in preferences then it will have forgotten them on the next boot up. For instance the choice of "visual effects". I've chosen "normal" quite a few times now and everytime I boot up I have to re-select it. Getting on my nerves. I'm sure there will come some sort of solution to it soon. And overall I actually like the new version. Lots of great stuff from the beginning.

Keep up the great work. Its only to bad that it takes a couple of weeks before the bugs will vanish. Most of them anyway, if it will be anything like the last time I upgraded :)

Any ideas on how to solve my problems?[/COLOR][/FONT][FONT=Arial][SIZE=2][COLOR=Black][I]

P.S. I'm sitting on a laptop [/I][/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Arial][SIZE=2][COLOR=Black][B][SIZE=2]*M 3438G. And I cant seem to get the fan from stop spinning. This problem has been here since I first started to use ubuntu. Does anyone know how to not get it to be activated all the time like in windows?*[/SIZE]
[/B][/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]

---

