---
title: "Limited Screen Resolution Options"
date: 2009-07-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SBhojani on 2009-07-01
Hi all. I am new to forums and new to Ubuntu. I installed Ubuntu 9.04 on an empty hard-disk (I was fed up with Windows) and now the highest resolution that I have is 800x600. With Windows I used to have resolutions upto 1600x1200. I am used to  a resolution of 1280x1024. I googled it up and tried some of the things I found but nothing worked. I tried using xrandr and there was no change. I installed a driver I got from Nvidia's website and nothing changed. Can anyone please help. If you need more info, let me know.

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-07-01
Post contents of the **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** file and output of the **xrandr** command in Terminal.

---

### Post by abhi_69 on 2009-07-01
may be u have to change /etc/X11/xorg.conf by hand according to nvidia settings for ur driver. i had the same problem, but, after changing xorg.conf file by hand it works well now. nvidia installer automatically setup xorg.conf file during installation which not work with several resolution. so, u may modify this file.

---

### Post by abhi_69 on 2009-07-01
> **abhi_69 said:**
> may be u have to change /etc/X11/xorg.conf by hand according to nvidia settings for ur driver. i had the same problem, but, after changing xorg.conf file by hand it works well now. nvidia installer automatically setup xorg.conf file during installation which not work with several resolution. so, u may modify this file.
by the way, do u try ubuntu build of nvidia driver from repo.?
official nvidia build may cause some problem sometimes (not always, i prefer it over ubuntu build).
u can read nvidia readme for more info.

---

### Post by SBhojani on 2009-07-02
Here's my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection



and here's the output from xrandr:

Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 800 x 600, maximum 800 x 600
default connected 800x600+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   800x600        60.0*    56.0  
   640x480        60.0  
   400x300        60.0     56.0  
   320x240        60.0  



Is there something I need to add to the xorg.conf?



> do u try ubuntu build of nvidia driver from repo.?There are so many packages named nvidia and I don't know which one to try.

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-07-02
Type this in Terminal:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

And when the Text Editor opens, delete everything and use the stuff below instead. Remember to save :)

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1280x1024"
		Virtual	1280 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

After reboot, if it doesn't automatically change to new res, open the Display app, and see if you have an option for 1280x1024 there.

---

### Post by SBhojani on 2009-07-02
I put that in my xorg.conf and restarted. The size of the login screen became bigger with most of it over-scanning. When I logged in, the resolution was the same 800x600. I changed to 1280x1024 from the "Display" tool and it was over-scanning same as the login screen. Any ideas?

---

### Post by abhi_69 on 2009-07-02
> **SBhojani said:**
> I put that in my xorg.conf and restarted. The size of the login screen became bigger with most of it over-scanning. When I logged in, the resolution was the same 800x600. I changed to 1280x1024 from the "Display" tool and it was over-scanning same as the login screen. Any ideas?
where is the device identity in ur xorg.conf file?
i think this cause the problem. if u use nvidia & install it properly, there should some lines about ur video card model & other info. in this file. i install my nvidia driver properly & here is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file i hav given for info-
```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Thu Apr 16 19:36:29 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 120.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```
i use 1024x768 resolution in my PC & look, there is also my monitor & video driver information in this file. compare this file with ur xorg.conf....... specially 'device' & 'monitor' section.
u should install driver properly first & then u hav to change ur xorg.conf file to look similar of mine (of course with ur prefered resolution).

###more####
u can try this How-to install nvidia driver from ubuntu repo. hope this will help-
[http://www.detector-pro.com/2009/04/how-to-install-nvidia-linux-display.html](http://www.detector-pro.com/2009/04/how-to-install-nvidia-linux-display.html)
or,
[http://informationbits.blogspot.com/2009/04/installing-nvidiaati-video-drivers-in.html](http://informationbits.blogspot.com/2009/04/installing-nvidiaati-video-drivers-in.html)
or,
[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Jaunty#Install_Latest_Nvidia.2FATI_drivers](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Jaunty#Install_Latest_Nvidia.2FATI_drivers)
take care

---

### Post by SBhojani on 2009-07-02
I have been playing around a lot with my xorg.conf file recently in order to solve this issue. Here's one of my backed-up files which looks similar to yours:

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (xxx@xxx)  Wed Jul  1 06:32:00 XST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```Can we modify the above to solve the issue?

---

### Post by abhi_69 on 2009-07-02
good....yes we can.
but, before this just do a little thing- if u install nividia driver properly there must be a menu entry under System->Preferences->nvidia X server settings. do u hav it? check now.
if it present, then, open it & change screen resolution from 'X server display configuration' menu of it according to ur choice. don't forget to click button labeled 'Detect display' before change resolution. u can also change other settings from here (if needed). this must change ur resolution.
then, click 'save to X configuration file' button just below resolution settings option. this open a dialog & u select 'show preview'.
this show ur new xorg.conf file. u can copy it &paste this completely into ur present /etc/X11/xorg.conf file (1st clear all text of present xorg.conf file then, paste it). u can do this via gedit in root mode.
then save ur file, exit gedit, close all running apps & reboot PC.
Enjoy!!!!

---

### Post by SBhojani on 2009-07-02
I got the following error when I ran NVIDIA X Server Settings:

> You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server. So I ran sudo nividia-xconfig and did a reboot. Upon reboot, I got some display related error and selected something like 'run in low graphics mode once' and here I am. When I run NVIDIA X Server Settings now, I still get the same error as I got previously. What should I do?

P.S.: Thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by abhi_69 on 2009-07-02
well....seems nvidia driver not correctly installed. otherwise, such kind of problem must not be happend if everything all right. which nvidia driver version u r using? it must be version 180.51 for ubuntu 9.04 jaunty & version 177.82 for ubuntu 8.10 intrepid. check ur nividia driver package version first. is it a *.pkg1.run file? if it so, then report me details how u install it. give step by step description if possible. i will try to find out the error.
give me also the name of ur nvidia card model (i.e. my model is nvidia geforce 8400 GS). is it a PCI or AGP card?

---

### Post by SBhojani on 2009-07-04
I have no idea about the driver version. How to check it?

I did get a *.pkg1.run file from NVIDIA's website. Then I did "sudo killall gdm", "sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.09-pkg1.run", went through the setup and then did "sudo reboot". I have done it twice, actually. The second time I used a different file "NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.11-pkg1.run".

I think the card is PCI, although I have no idea what that means. Here's the output from "lspci | grep VGA", which I believe shows the model:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV4 [RIVA TNT] (rev 04)

---

### Post by abhi_69 on 2009-07-04
> **SBhojani said:**
> I have no idea about the driver version. How to check it?

I did get a *.pkg1.run file from NVIDIA's website. Then I did "sudo killall gdm", "sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.09-pkg1.run", went through the setup and then did "sudo reboot". I have done it twice, actually. The second time I used a different file "NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.11-pkg1.run".

I think the card is PCI, although I have no idea what that means. Here's the output from "lspci | grep VGA", which I believe shows the model:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV4 [RIVA TNT] (rev 04)
well....here is ur driver version. u said, ur file name is - "NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.11-pkg1.run"
here, the number 71.86.11 is the driver version. ok? its a very old nvidia driver (legacy driver) & it may not work well. if ur card is a latest one, then u should install the version 180.51 (its the latest driver version & must work with all latest nvidia video card). 
but, seems ur video card is a old one (NV4). so, this kind of legacy driver is ok. perhaps, u can try legacy driver from ubuntu repo. open synaptic & search for 'nvidia'. u should see a version called- "nvidia-glx-71-dev".
u can try this. i serach nvidia.com & found that, for ur NV4 PCI card current driver is 71.86.11....so, u r right.
u should not try different version for same driver. always try to use latest driver version. but, 1st u try 71.86.09...its older version. 2nd one is correct. perhaps, such kind of work cause some error.
now, try this. if its not work, may be u have to do a fresh installation. BTW, which version of ubuntu u r using? let me know.

---

### Post by SBhojani on 2009-07-05
I installed nvidia-glx-71-dev and I got all the screen resolution options that I was looking for and more (upto 1920x1440). Some of those resolution options don't work but I don't mind. I got what I was looking for. Thanks for all the help.

Now I have another problem and I am sure its related. I don't see my welcome screen. I know its there. I hear its sound. I type my username and password and log in. But, I don't see it. I believe that this has something to do with this last change. How can I change the screen resolution for the welcome screen?

---

