---
title: "11.04 Freezes Using SuperKey+A or Alt+F2 While Typing"
date: 2011-09-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by andrewperk on 2011-09-08
Hello, I recently installed Ubuntu 11.04 on my Gateway p172s laptop:

2.0 core 2 duo
3gb ram
nvidia geforce 8800 512mb card

Anytime I access the applications pane whether clicking on it from the dock or by hitting the SuperKey+a or if I bring up the command runner with alt+f2 and while typing it will freeze. It doesn't freeze every time, but I can make it do it within 10-15 seconds of typing and backspacing and typing again. It seems to freeze during the process when its trying to find the application.

This is a complete freeze. Nothing responds, keyboard doesn't work, ctrl+alt+f keys don't work, ctrl+alt+backspace doesn't work, the only thing I can do is hit the power button. 

I've also had one freeze while at youtube watching a video in fullscreen mode. I havent had any other freezes at other times. 

I can be on it all day long with no problems as long as I don't go typing in the applications window.

I've ran the Unity 3d Compatibility Program:

/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p

It says everything is yes in green, it says I'm compatible. 

I've tried turning off the open gl vsync option, it didn't work. I've disabled screensavers too. I'm running the System monitor in my bar at the top and my cpu stays around 5-15% while in browser and 14% mem. cpu sometimes goes up to 30-50 or so while opening a new application.

Anyone have any ideas? Any settings I can change? Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by andrewperk on 2011-09-09
So I was looking around at things about my Nvidia Drivers and I noticed that my xorg.conf file didn't specify a card or driver. My xorg.conf file looks like this:


Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Default Device"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection


Are maybe my nvidia drivers not set up properly? When I go into my System Settings->Additional Drivers it says Im using the version current but at the bottom it says its active but not in use? 

I'm thinking the freezing has to have something to do with my nvidia drivers.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Bodsda on 2011-09-09
> **andrewperk said:**
> So I was looking around at things about my Nvidia Drivers and I noticed that my xorg.conf file didn't specify a card or driver. My xorg.conf file looks like this:
 
 
Section "Device"
Identifier "Default Device"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection
 
 
Are maybe my nvidia drivers not set up properly? When I go into my System Settings->Additional Drivers it says Im using the version current but at the bottom it says its active but not in use? 
 
I'm thinking the freezing has to have something to do with my nvidia drivers.
 
Thanks.
 
That file is no longer used, unless you install and configure the propriatary drivers, in which case, yes there should be a section listing your driver as 'nv' or 'nvidia'
 
Bodsda

---

### Post by andrewperk on 2011-09-09
Thanks Bodsda, I didn't realize that. 

I've now tried using Unity 2d and going back to the classic ubuntu as well. I still experience the freezing anytime I use the applications program and type it freezes. I also experienced another freeze while watching full screen video. 

I don't know what to do to try and fix the freezing? Thanks.

---

### Post by andrewperk on 2011-09-10
I may have fixed the problem, at least its better now.

At first I installed Ubuntu Tweaks and used it to add a ppa to X Updates. Then in my synaptic manager I hit reload then searched Nvidia and enabled nvidia-current, nvidia-settings, and the nouveau drivers. Then I ran my update manager and rebooted my PC. This completely messed things up. After the update it was using the recommened current nvidia card. The nouveau driver wasn't even present in the list and most of the time the PC was now completely freezing before I could even try to disable the driver. So I had to reboot in to safe mode using fail safe graphics.

1. Using ubuntu tweak I used the cleanup feature to purge the X Updates ppa.
2. Went to additional drivers and chose to remove the current nvidia recommended driver. So at this point neither the 173 or the current nvidia was active.
3. I rebooted normally. Now everything works. I went into additional drivers again and now the nouveau experimental driver was now activated. I also noticed that I no longer have an Nvidia X settings. So I went back into the synaptic manager and noticed that it had removed the current nvidia and settings drivers. So I just left it alone since its working now.

I can now watch videos in full screen, I can hit superkey+a and I can type and search and it works. I really tested it out to try and get it to lock up and it never did. But, when I hit the Ubuntu icon in the top left of the screen that locked up once. But it was not a complete lock up. I was still able to use other programs and everything. So I hit ctrl+alt+2 which took me to a terminal I entered my user info it logged me out and I logged back in and it was fine. So at least I didn't have to hard shut it down.

Hopefully this will help someone. So the short story partial solution was to:

1. enable the nouveau drivers in synaptic manager. 
2.Go to additional drivers disable the other two drivers
3. reboot and make sure it uses the nouveau experimental drivers instead after the reboot.

---

