---
title: "[SOLVED] Trouble with ATI driver"
date: 2008-09-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by colobix on 2008-09-03
When I try to enable the ati driver and reboot my pc, I get an error message that tells me something like Displayconfig-gfx isn't installed, so I have to use the Fix X-Server function to disable the driver again-

Will I aver be able to have good graphic again?

Please help.

Btw, I don't know how and why this happend now, and I havn't seen this problem before-

---

### Post by Thingymebob on 2008-09-03
Try following the guide here
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide")

---

### Post by colobix on 2008-09-03
Thanks but since I don't know what the problem is, I don't know what I should look for. 
I guess that guide is better for PC experts.

Well, I tried some methods to fix and install the driver manually, but I got this message all the time no matter what I try:
sh: Can't open ati-installer.sh


I love Ubuntu but it should be easier to fix things.

---

### Post by Thingymebob on 2008-09-03
go to System > Administration > Software sources
Make sure the ***Proprietary drivers for devices (restricted)*** is checked

Then follow the steps in Method 1

BTW you don't need to restart the computer, just the X server with ctrl+alt+backspace

If it doesn't work, post the output of fglrxinfo and your xorg.conf

---

### Post by colobix on 2008-09-03
I tried your method but it didn't work. I got the same error as last time, so I had to go back to recovery mode and repair xserver again.

OK, here's the output from fglrxinfo
display: :1.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.3)

---

### Post by colobix on 2008-09-03
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"no"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by Thingymebob on 2008-09-03
```

sudo apt-get remove xserver-xgl

```

then do method 1 again
changing the following in xorg.conf```

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
**Driver "fglrx"**
EndSection

```

and add
```

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

```
to the end of xorg.conf

if X won't start press ctrl+alt+F1 to bring up a terminal fix X there, saves a reboot then ctrl+alt+F7 Back to the gdm and ctrl+alt+backspace to restart it

If this doesn't work, we'll need to see /var/log/Xorg.0.log

---

### Post by colobix on 2008-09-03
It doesn't work,
When I came to the point where I have to delete the masa drivers, everything went wrong. GDM Is deleted and I can't login now. 
I run ubuntu live cd now.
Plz help.

---

### Post by colobix on 2008-09-03
bump

---

### Post by Thingymebob on 2008-09-04
You need to get to a console and make the changes to xorg.conf, Unless apt said it was removing GDM it is still there, X can not start your display at the moment because you have just removed the display driver it wants to use.

---

### Post by colobix on 2008-09-04
Thank you SO much for your help:)
It wasn't really that hard. I was just super tired.

---

