---
title: "10.10 in WoW"
date: 2010-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by charlton2142 on 2010-11-08
Everytime I go to play WoW in my newly upgraded ubuntu system I come across the following: I will be able to play normally for about 5 minutes and then randomly my character will lagg out. I will be able to chat and stuff but when I go to use an ability or summon a mount my character will fail to do so. I can run and chat but nothing else.

---

### Post by Kyrue on 2010-11-15
Are you using a wired or wireless connection? Do you have a firewall up? Wireless connection to WoW is a pain in the butt and not recommended.

---

### Post by sevenenemy on 2010-12-28
i use a wireless 3g hotspot off my phone to connect at home and mainly wireless with the ability to unplug a friends pc elsewhere and plug wired into mine...what is pain in the butt about wireless, is it a linux thing? a wine thing?  i ask because i am deeply concerned about my ability to have be play with all the bugs and glitches i have been experiencing. so far i think the highest fps i got wow to run on 10.10 is 5. seriously 5 fps, lol! usually its around 3 fps though. i assume i am getting emulation oriented lag not wireless lag, due to the fact that i ran wow for years on this same laptop under windows and no real issues or hardware changes. under wine and in ubuntu though i just cant seem to get wow to run smoothly. i dont use a standalone firewall, or anti-virus, just what ubuntu gave me, and someone in my guild told me to check the wine website for tips on setting up wow but i find none. anyone got any ideas for an ubuntu and wow lover? its a tenuous lifestyle choice...

basically can anyone link us to a fix lol so i can find all the wine wow ubuntu threads and link them to it. what can i say, im a noice guiy

---

