---
title: "9.04 Fonts got real small, now I need my glasses."
date: 2010-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by webbdawg on 2010-01-31
So after doing an update (not upgrade) many fonts were changed.

Most notably in FireFox. Why are the fonts so small in Folder pane and the email listing pane. I went to the system settings and played with the Apperance>Fonts section but they nevr changed for FF. So I went into FF preferences and played with those and nothing changed again. WTF How do I get my font in FF bigger.

[ATTACH]145566[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2010-01-31
With firefox open and the firefox window selected, hold down Ctrl and turn the mouse wheel up and down. You can also use the up and down arrow keys.

---

### Post by webbdawg on 2010-01-31
Thanks,but that did not work. I know what you are talking about though. I have done that with windoz.

I am really puzzeled.

---

### Post by webbdawg on 2010-01-31
Crap, I meant to say Thunderbird not FF. My bad

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2010-01-31
Does this work?  [https://urandom.ca/nosquint/](https://urandom.ca/nosquint/)

Having a hard time reading on the web? Is that website with the ridiculously small font and hot-pink-on-slightly-darker-hot-pink text raising your blood pressure? NoSquint can:

    * Override the default text-only and full-page (both text and images) zoom levels for all websites
    * Enforce your own foreground and background colors
    * Remember your zoom levels and color settings per site, automatically applying them when you return.
    * Disagree with what NoSquint calls a site? A powerful exceptions mechanism lets you split up or group together sites with URL patterns.

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2010-01-31
> **webbdawg said:**
> Crap, I meant to say Thunderbird not FF. My bad

... Thundirebox ... :-) ...

Can't help you sorry. I haven't used Tbird for a while now. Switched to Evolution, which by the way would probably solve your problem for you if you can't get Tbird sorted out.

---

