---
title: "Hardy nvidia-glx-new jagged rendering on widescreen"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by samson.programer on 2008-05-01
Hello,

I'm hoping someone will have a work around for yet another nVidia/Hardy related issue.  The main problem is that when I install the the newest driver 169.12 with EnvyNG it works fine but one of my screens is rendered very badly (looks like a compressed image with all text and images having jagged edges).  Using the 96.43.05 nVidia driver (again from EnvyNG) I get a great image on both monitors ... but with out the nice Compiz/Ubuntu effects that worked with the newer 169.12 driver.

The following are my hardware specs:
Video Card: nVIDIA GeForce FX5200 Dual VGA
Main Monitor: Acer X193w (Widescreen LCD @ 1440x900)
Secondary Monitor: Dell M783s (CRT @ 1280x1024)

And attached are the xorg.conf files I used (generated by EnvyNG) for both drivers.

Thanks for any help you can give!

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-05-01
Could you post a screenshot?

Which screen is it that looks bad? The LCD? Have you tried enabling anti-aliasing? I can help you to do that if you haven't already

---

### Post by samson.programer on 2008-05-02
Well I guess that is another clue I forgot to mention.  I tried to take a screenshot to post but when I took one with the 'Take Screenshot' program the picture came out looking perfect for both screens.

It is the LCD widescreen that is causing the problems.  The antialiasing might work (I presume you have to set it and then restart X for it to work) but given that I don't have to have it on at all with the old driver it seems like there is another problem here.  Somewhere, maybe between the buffer and showing the image on the screen, it seems like the image is resized and then scaled badly so jagged edges show on diagonal edges and fonts.

Thanks again for any insight provided.  Like I said the old driver is workable but the new one with the desktop effects is nice (and actually handy sometimes).

---

### Post by samson.programer on 2008-05-05
Ok, now this has become a bit more critical.  The old driver has stopped working on the lcd monitor after the Ubuntu update today.  Now I have to use the newer driver and the text rendering on it especially is terrible.  Any help or insight would be greatly appreciated.

One thing I forgot to note is that when it was working nvidia-settings seemed to recognize the LCD as an Acer monitor.  With the newer driver it just has it listed as CRT-0.

---

### Post by samson.programer on 2008-08-08
This is still an issue even with the new driver updates.  Actually it got worse when I updated the driver to the new 173.14.09 version.  Now it doesn't matter if the screens are set to the same 1280x1028 resolution or 1440x900 for one and 1280x1028 for the other the widescreen lcd monitor still renders the text horribly.  I would really like to find a solution for this as it is my work computer so I am staring at it for 8+ hours a day.  Thanks in advance.

---

