---
title: ".m3u playlists from ITunes to Banshee showing empty"
date: 2015-09-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by user39 on 2015-09-16
I am trying to import my ITunes playlists into Banshee music player (I have already imported my music).  However,  after selecting Media > Import Playlist in Banshee and selecting the playlist, it shows up as an empty playlist.  I have tried reformatting my playlist to the following two formats and neither have helped.  Both the .m3u file and the folders containing the music are in my /home/anon/Music/iTunes/iTunes Media/Music folder.  Any ideas on how I could fix this?
Formats attempted:

&#65279;#EXTM3U
/Mac Demarco/2/05 Ode To Viceroy.mp3
/Mother Mother/Very Good Bad Thing (Deluxe Version)/02 Monkey Tree.m4a
[more songs...]


&#65279;#EXTM3U
/home/anon/Music/iTunes/iTunes Media/Music/Mac Demarco/2/05 Ode To Viceroy.mp3
/Mother Mother/Very Good Bad Thing (Deluxe Version)/02 Monkey Tree.m4a
[more songs...]

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-09-16
Various ways, none which you've shown.
Assuming playlists has files from different folders then full path each track, one way shown below based on  - 
track name
full path
m3u can be stored anywhere
```

#EXTM3U
#EXTINF:Pink Floyd - Speak to Me (Breathe In The Air)
/home/doug/Music/Pink Floyd-The Dark Side of the Moon/01.Speak to Me (Breathe In The Air).m4a
#EXTINF:Big Brother & The Holding Company - Summertime
/home/doug/Music/Big Brother & The Holding Company/Cheap Thrills/Disc 1 - 03 - Summertime.mp3
#EXTINF:Rihanna - Stay (Live on SNL) ft. Mikky Ekko-C-dW7z0QBNg.m4a
/home/doug/Music/Rihanna - Stay (Live on SNL) ft. Mikky Ekko-C-dW7z0QBNg.m4a
```

---

### Post by user39 on 2015-09-17
Thank you!  Do you know of any tools to do this or do I have to do it manually/write a script?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-09-17
Don't know if there is a specific app to do that, try some searches.
(- I see this, never have tried [http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/man1/fapg.1.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/man1/fapg.1.html)

There likely are script examples floating around this forum.

Other ways, short list - 
vlc > add files to a vlc playlist, then save using  .m3u (Media > Save playlist to file

easytag can create playlists, likely not intuitive as to how to select individual files
First get easytag to display files, not directories. (go up a directory if need be, then select target dir.
 Then a right click on a file will select it, dismiss the pop up by clicking elsewhere, r. clicking on additional files selects them, ect. May be an easier way to select various files.. Then click on the generate playlist icon, here it's 2nd to last icon.

---

