---
title: "10.04 Lucid - Samba Only Works for Root User"
date: 2010-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mddubs on 2010-07-17
I'm new to Ubuntu and I'm pretty sure I'm just missing something simple.  I want to use Samba to share my raid array to all of my machines, so I have...

[LIST=1]
[*]Installed Ubuntu and created a single user: [B]matt
[/B]
[*]Mounted my ext4 raid set with fstab:
 
```
UUID=78d85398-d179-4640-bb1b-f770ba90abb1 /media/Data ext4 defaults 0 0
```
[*]Installed Samba (real Samba, I haven't touched the Nautilus-Share right-click thing):
 
```
sudo apt-get install samba
```
[*]Created my "Samba User" with the same name and password as the Ubuntu user account:
 
```
sudo smbpasswd -a matt
```
[*]Created a new Ubuntu "Desktop User" account named: [B]alex
[/B]
[*]Created a new "Samba Share" user account with the same name and password:
 
```
sudo smbpasswd -a alex
```
[*]Enabled user authentication in */etc/samba/smb.conf*:
 
```
security = user
```
[*]Add my shares to the bottom of /etc/samba/smb.conf:
 
```
[Public]
comment = Public Files
path = /media/Data/Public
browseable = yes
guest ok = yes
read only = no
force user = matt

[Share]
comment = Shared Files
path = /media/Data/Share
browseable = yes
guest ok = yes
read only = yes
force user = matt

[Personal]
comment = Personal Files
path = /media/Data/Personal
browseable = yes
guest ok = no
read only = no
valid users = matt alex

[Matt]
comment = Matt's Files
path = /media/Data/Private/Matt
browseable = yes
guest ok = no
read only = no
valid users = matt

[Alex]
comment = Alex's Files
path = /media/Data/Private/Alex
browseable = yes
guest ok = no
read only = no
valid users = alex
```
[/LIST]
The results of this are:

[LIST=1]
[*]**Public** - works great.  Anyone from any machine can read/write files, no prompt for credentials.
[*]**Share** - works great.  Anyone from any machine can only read files, no prompt for credentials.
[*]**Matt** - works great.  I'm prompted for credentials and entering matt with the correct password gives me read/write access.
[*]**Personal** - Prompts for credentials but only works for *matt*.  It should work for *matt *and *alex*.
[*]**Alex** - Prompts for credentials but doesn't work at all.  No credentials are accepted.
[/LIST]
This seems like an obvious permissions problem with the *alex* account.  But being new to Linux, and the confusion of having two accounts with the same and password, I'm stuck.  Working with the [Alex] share, I've tried giving full permission (chmod 777), making alex owner (chown alex), and a bunch of other things and I just can't get it right.  Please help!

---

### Post by mddubs on 2010-07-17
OK I figured it out.  It was filesystem permissions, basic stuff.  *Matt* had access to everything because he was the owner of everything.

To grant *Alex* (and other users) access I:

[LIST=1]
[*]Edited the *SambaShare* user group and made sure *Alex* and any other users were included in that group.
[*]Now, for each share, you have to make sure the *SambaShare* group has **read/write access to that folder and all parent folders**.  My [Alex] share is located at */media/Data/Private/Alex*.  The *media* folder is system level so need to touch that, but I changed the permissions for *Data,Private*, and *Alex* to the attached screenshot.
[/LIST]

---

