---
title: "Is 9.0.4 still a little &quot;glitchy&quot;?"
date: 2009-08-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by toleolu on 2009-08-01
I'm thinking about wiping and reinstalling Ubuntu, I've read some things on line about Jaunty being a fairly new release and still having a few "bugs". 

Is there any truth to that, and if so, would I be better off reinstalling and older version of Ubuntu??

Also, whichever version I ultimately end up reinstalling, could someone point me to a good online resource(s) for properly installing and configuring.

Thanks

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-08-01
Install 8.04.3, that is LTS (long term support).

And for securing ubuntu, read this debian guide:
[http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/securing-debian-howto/](http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/securing-debian-howto/)

---

### Post by Vignesh S on 2009-08-01
Personally, on my computer, 9.04 was a bit glitchy. However, that was 64-bit, and 9.04 is perfectly fine on my sister's netbook. But 9.04 seems to be fine now. 

My suggestion would be to install 32 bit 9.04. After updating it, if there are still any glitches, then go to 8.04 LTS. Best if you want stability. Or if you want something newer, but not as new as 9.04, then use 8.10. Its what I am using on this machine.

Installing Ubuntu is probably one of the easiest things I've done. All you have to do is follow the prompts. I personally don't know any online guides, but if I find any, I'll let you know.

---

### Post by toleolu on 2009-08-01
Thanks for the input. 

Since this is really for just home use, I guess I'll stay on Jaunty. Rather than wipe and reinstall, I think I'll just start by doing a recovery, try to get it back to day one, and then try rebuilding the app (Flight Gear 1.9.0) that got my all hosed up to begin with.

---

### Post by Ed187 on 2009-08-01
I installed 9.04 earlier today and the sound won't work though the speakers.  It does work through headphones though.

---

### Post by toleolu on 2009-08-02
I don't know if this will help, but I ended up removing Pulse Audio. It was causing some issues with another program.

One other thing I found, if you have a sound card and integrated, disable the integrated audio in the BIOS and then set your audio preferences to Auto Detect. I have a Sound Blaster card and doing that helped with some audio problems I was having.

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2009-08-02
9.04 has been a perfect installation for me, I've not encountered any problems with sound, flash or java.  I hope you manage to sort the problem out.

---

### Post by ~cyrus~ on 2009-08-02
Have recently done a clean install of 9.04 on a desktop with / and /swap mounted on an EXT4 formatted drive... done with the LiveCD.

Not an issue so far.

---

