---
title: "Installing f-spot broke my mime types"
date: 2006-08-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pyros on 2006-08-26
I'm not exactly sure of the how or the why or what external circumstances contirbuted to this, but on the two seperate occasions that I have installed fspot on a clean dapper install, it hosed my image mime types. Thumbnails wouldn't be displayed in nautilus unless I selected the image; when viewing an image with eog, I couldn't use the arrows to browse through the other images in the same directory; trying to just double-click on an image gave me a warning about how the extension and mime type didn't match up. The first time this happened with png images, this time with jpg images. If I renamed the suffix (for example jpeg, or PNG) it would work just fine. It's rather irritating when you have to rename gigabytes of images. So I managed track down the culprit (again) and hve decided to put this on the forum for when I forget again.. I mean share this with the world. Your results may vary.

*Open nautilus and select "Show hidden files" from the view menu. 
*In your home folder, look for ".local"-- it should be a folder-- and open it.
*Find the folder named "share" and open it.
*Find the folder named "mime" and open it.
*Find the file named "globs" and open it.

If the file looks something like this:
```

# This file was automatically generated by the
# update-mime-database command. DO NOT EDIT!
application/x-extension-jpg:*.jpg

```
we have the perpetrator of this vile inconvience.
*Add "# " in front of the line "application/x-extension..." REMEMBER THE SPACE, it's probably crucial. Now save the file and test your reslults.

---

