---
title: "7.10 and  Cairo Dock"
date: 2007-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RealEmotionX on 2007-11-12
Hello, I really want to try out Cairo Dock (I just dont like Kiba Dock much, not easy to use)

and The problem is, I followed a guide I got on this site once and it messed up Compiz (or something, I cant really place blame as I wasnt trying to hard)

so I decided to look around for a .deb and found one here [http://developer.berlios.de/projects/cairo-dock/](http://developer.berlios.de/projects/cairo-dock/)

and Then I installed Cairo Dock, when I try to run it through the command Cairo-Dock however I get this message

cd_rhythmbox_pre_init ()
rhythmbox_dbus_init ()
Connexion au bus ... réussie
Segmentation fault (core dumped)

Not much help as some of it isnt in english.

And Cairo doesnt run at all. Thank you very much!

---

### Post by scaine on 2007-11-12
Yep - me too.  Exact same symptoms.  I'll do some more searching, but since this is a French project, I think we may be stuck.

I used the same Debs as you - the latest on the site.  The official documentation (in English) doesn't help much either ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CairoDock]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CairoDock"))

Just found the "official" thread for this in these very forums.  Hopefully these will help.  This thread should probably just die now.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=302570&page=21]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=302570&page=21")

Cheers,
Scaine.

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2007-11-12
I had the same problem when I put the latest (v 1.40) cairo-dock on my new (used) laptop.

I ended up digging through the French forum and from what I could make of their ruddy gibberish J/K, It seems to be a problem with a cd control applet conflict.

**I was able to fix it by uninstalling 1.40 and using version 1.35 with 1.35 plugins, then I used the update feature in cairo-dock to get the newest version.**

Worked fine this way, Here's the older version d/l page;
```
http://developer.berlios.de/project/showfiles.php?group_id=8724
```

---

### Post by RealEmotionX on 2007-11-12
Thanks Ill give it a shot

---

### Post by RealEmotionX on 2007-11-12
it worked but I am not happy with the program enough to use it. XD I am so picky.

---

### Post by scaine on 2007-11-12
@JBAlaska :  Thanks - that's awesome and like RealEmotionX, I've got it working nicely.  Unlike RealEmotionX, I reckon this is the slickest dock I've ever used.  Thanks again for getting this working for me.  Gonna have to brush up on my French, I reckon!  :)

I'm having difficulty with only one element - it doesn't appear to be saving my changes - there's a file in the .cairo-dock directory called ".cairo-dock-need-save".  I'll check the other thread to see if anyone's had this issue before.

---

### Post by fabounet on 2007-11-14
it should work fine now with the 1.4.2

---

