---
title: "Ubuntu 11.04 + Gnome Classic + 4 LCD Monitors"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TuxLyn on 2011-04-29
Alright, I've installed this new Ubuntu 11.04 and I must say its horrible. Not because of the "Unity", but lack of support for multiple monitors. They work in "Gnome Classic", but the problem is there is many bugs.   First bug is that any windows I open do not have borders or title bars, and only open in top left corner of the screen. On top of that, I can't type anything in those opened screens like when I open terminal for example.  Second bug is that I can't add any new items to panels on other separate screens. As soon as I try to add anything, I get the following errors.  "Indicator Applet Complete" has quit unexpectedly.  So 11.04 failed for me I'm afraid. At this point I can't use it. This is very said because I was looking forward in running new version of Ubuntu.  Its very strange that Ubuntu programmers don't have multiple screens by now to test ubuntu properly.  As for Unity, nothing to talk about there. Its pure "Vista" style like screw up. It only works well on laptop or single monitor.  I guess all I can do now, is wait again for 11.10 and hope all bugs will be fixed by then to support multiple monitors like 10.10 does now.  Also, this will teach me installing new ubuntu version every six months LOL With all the bugs new ubuntu version comes out .04 releases is not worth it. Better wait at least in till .04.1 comes or even .10 versions.  Please fix "Gnome Classic" so it will support multiple screens again. I think its something to do with Compiz, because windows decorations is not working on separate screens. Well here we go again, installing 10.10 back and waiting for 11.10.

---

### Post by Hotel on 2011-04-29
I also have this problem, any help would be appreciated

---

### Post by TuxLyn on 2011-04-30
@Hotel, I've installed 10.10 version back. I suggest you do the same, because I don't think this bugs be resolved overnight or even within a month.

---

### Post by rybu on 2011-05-03
I've also had problems with a two monitor configuration with ubuntu 11.04.  

It seems it's difficult to drag windows across screens.  In particular Firefox can be dragged from the 1st screen to the 2nd, but not back from the 2nd to the 1st.  Repeated drag attempts from the 2nd to the 1st cause Firefox to crash.

---

### Post by djaun on 2011-05-04
> **TuxLyn said:**
> @Hotel, I've installed 10.10 version back. I suggest you do the same, because I don't think this bugs be resolved overnight or even within a month.

How did you go about doing this? I still have my 10.10 install disk.

---

### Post by djaun on 2011-05-04
If you're willing to give Unity another shot, you can make that second monitor useful again by turning on TwinView (I'm using a nVidia graphics card). It appears that Separate X Screens isn't something they gave much thought to.

I'm still missing 10.10, but Unity isn't so difficult to adjust to once you get over those initial WTF moments.

---

### Post by JaredNJames on 2011-05-04
Yep, this is my problem too.

Not impressed.  In fact I think it's dreadful they let things slip this much.

This is one of the larger issues, but I've had countless bugs so far which weren't present in 10.10 and shouldn't be in 11.04.

Talk about a step backwards.  Worst upgrade to date for me.

---

### Post by brianolson on 2011-05-07
Similar to OP, I have four monitors and three of them are useless now. Can't Ctl-Alt-T in them to make new terminals, it's like they have no window manager.
It was horrible in Unity, it's like Unity never even thought of having multiple monitors. And the 'classic' gnome seems to be newly broken now.
I can't enable Xinerama, that was broken in 10.10 too. So, this is four separate X contexts, but it used to pretty much work.
This is with a pair of NVidia cards each driving two monitors.

---

### Post by nathema on 2011-05-08
Using nvidia-current and editting the xorg.conf generated by Nvidia X server settings, i'm able to [run 2 monitors with Ubuntu classic (no effects).]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1750174")
But:

[LIST]
[*]No dynamic switching of monitors like i was used to in 10.04
[*]No unity 3d
[/LIST]

---

### Post by Sami Lehtinen on 2011-05-08
> **brianolson said:**
> And the 'classic' gnome seems to be newly broken now.

Yes, it seems to be so. I have problem with secondary screen. Some key applications are crashing all the time. I'm also having serious screen repaint issues. 

Most interesting of these is issue, where before I open locked workstation I can see everything on screen as it was before workstation was locked! After opening lock I just get blank screen. Doesn't look too good at all. This is also major security issue, I wouldn't recommend system this badly broken for anyone.

Here's two screen shots. First one shows errors on other than primary screen. Seconds one shows screen as it is after lock has been opened.

---

### Post by Spuds on 2011-05-08
Yes.  I have to say 11.04 is terrible.  Bad.  I'm completely stunned they even released it.  It's almost a complete embarrassment.

---

### Post by TuxLyn on 2011-05-10
I'm not surprised any more with new Ubuntu releases. Every new release with even worse bugs then previous versions. Some times it even looks that they don't even test it them selfs. Kind of feel like Ubuntu programmers don't care much. This is very said indeed. I would rather like to have one release year or even one release couple of years, then twice a year with this many bugs. I only had ok luck with .10 versions even those are not without bugs. But at least those versions with more bug fixes. Will wait in till 11.10 and see what happens. Hopepuflly multiple monitor support for separate screens will be fixed and those annoying crashing of all the panels.

---

### Post by your imaginary friend on 2011-05-11
Adding myself to the list of people affected.  Such utter FAIL.

bug reports here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/779124](https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/779124)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/774941](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/774941)

---

### Post by TuxLyn on 2011-05-15
I've switched back to 10.10 and it works good like it used to. My plan is to wait for 11.10 now, and see what happens. If the bugs won't be fixed even by 11.10. Then I'm afraid I will be looking for another distro, perhaps Fedora.

---

### Post by Mgiacchetti on 2011-06-01
Seriously, this is the one thing making me not switch to ubuntu.   GIVE US THE ABILITY TO DRAG WINDOWS FROM ONE MONITOR TO THE OTHER WITHOUT USING THE STUPID TWINVIEW.

---

### Post by TuxLyn on 2011-06-11
Its another 124 days in till stable release of Ubuntu 11.10. Lets all wait and hope all this bugs will be fixed. Otherwise I see many people leaving Ubuntu as there main os very quickly. Between, I've even tried Ubuntu 11.04 with one monitor, still same lots of bugs. Not worth using it at this point.

With each new release of Ubuntu it looks like people that call them selfs programmers that contribute to Ubuntu don't know what they are doing. If any of ubuntu management reads this, please know that we rather have release ones a year or even ones in couple of years. But stable and without bugs.

---

### Post by timmay143 on 2011-07-07
Ugh, can't get 4 to work at all.  I have NO problems with a dual setup.  I want 1x4.

Running 8800GTS for ASUS 22" both DVI, Twinview works fine.

Other card is an 8400 GS, two Acer 19", one DVI, one VGA.  I see everything fine in in nvidia x server settings, but the two Acer screens have a red tint to them when I enable them.

I've also had both Acer's working with the 8800.  I wanted to add two more displays for multi-tasking so I got the ASUS screens and the 8400 (no particular reason except the ASUS's were cheap open box on newegg and the card was just something that seemed like it would work fine for what i wanted).

Running Ubuntu 11.04 Unity, I have also had the same issue in both KDE and XFCE desktops.  Not sure if I've had dumb luck with duals and Ubuntu because I haven't had any issues, knock on wood.

Sorry, nothing to really add.  Just wanted to log my setup and issue.  Still a noob to Linux/Ubuntu (been using about a year), but I'm not looking back, I love it so far!!

Oh, and I am pretty sure I am not running any of the fancy Compiz stuff (3D, etc.).  I don't want/need it.

---

### Post by TuxLyn on 2011-07-21
Is this issue still exists in 11.04 or has it been fixed by now ?

---

### Post by timmay143 on 2011-08-14
Update:  Still no working solution.

So I did get quad monitors to "work" but ran into the issues others have posted about (not sure if it was here or not).  It was weird.  I had live screens on all four monitors, but the far two "duals" on the right had the tool bar one the left of the two screens.  So monitor 3 of 4 had the tool bar as if the screens had shifted from what I thought I had setup to be 1-4 starting from the far left.  However, I had to click on the left two "duals" in blank space (I had a desktop background just no windows or the tool bar) which showed up on the right duals.  So in order to restart or change the configurations back, I had to blindly click in monitor 1 of 4 to execute what I saw in monitor 3 of 4.  Or it may have been the other way around.  I forget, it has been probably a month since I did it.  Sorry, should have posted when it was fresh, but I was so DAMN frustrated!!  I want to say I enabled Xinerama to get the four monitors to "work" or at least display something on the screens with two TwinViews(???) since I have two monitors on one card each.

Anyways, still chugging along fine with dual monitors TwinView, except, I get black blocks every now and then on windows where I had to shrink or move the window to get everything to show again.  I also noticed that Ubuntu Unity 11.04 allows the window snap feature of the half screen to work in the middle of the TwinView for both screens.  I don't think that was working before, but maybe I missed it too.  Thought that was pretty sweet.  So if they are fixing stuff like that, then I think 11.10 and 12.04 are going to be so much better (well I am not sure if it was an Ubuntu update or nVidia or both since I did update my driver to 280.13, but I still think the next Ubuntu releases will be a big fix).  Try to hang in there guys with Unity.  I like it.  At first I was ehh, but I got used to it.  Of course everyone has their personal preferences for their needs, and I am definitely not going to "force" someone to use it or say that it is better than blah, blah, blah.

Anyways, hopefully next post will have a fix!

edit: Now that I think about, I remember I had the left two screens  stretched as one screen at one point.  Not sure if this was with the  other two screens "working" or not.  Maybe I'll try GNOME classic or KDE, but I relly like Unity now that I am used to it, :(.

edit2: ok, so a work around!  GNOME classic and KDE allow quad monitors for my setup.  However, I have "two" stretch "screens" for the left and right pair of monitors, but I can move windows to all four monitors.  You have to have Xinerama enabled.  Even if the pairs are treated like separate X screens then the monitors are still stretched.  Also in the "separate" mode there is no bar across the right pair of screens nor can I move windows between pairs.  This might be the best solution for now.  At least I can use the real estate now.  I can even use snap windows in KDE so I don't have to manually resize too much which I thought might be a problem with the stretched screens!!  I am guessing XFCE might work in this way too.  Sticking with KDE for now since a) I love blue, :P and b) I use Kile and Kopete anyways.

I'm new to KDE so I don't know all of its tricks.  I am liking it so far.

Screenshots:


[[IMG]http://farm7.static.flickr.com/6087/6041053964_c1c867d03c_b.jpg[/IMG]]("http://www.flickr.com/photos/26187347@N06/6041053964/")
[Screenshot -  08142011 - 03:47:45 AM]("http://www.flickr.com/photos/26187347@N06/6041053964/") by  [timmay143]("http://www.flickr.com/people/26187347@N06/"), on  Flickr

[[IMG]http://farm7.static.flickr.com/6139/6040495971_42a8bf76ca_b.jpg[/IMG]]("http://www.flickr.com/photos/26187347@N06/6040495971/")
[Screenshot - 08142011 - 03:38:59 AM]("http://www.flickr.com/photos/26187347@N06/6040495971/") by [timmay143]("http://www.flickr.com/people/26187347@N06/"), on Flickr

[U][[IMG]http://farm7.static.flickr.com/6181/6040496189_0b4aaed850_b.jpg[/IMG]]("http://www.flickr.com/photos/26187347@N06/6040496189/")
[Screenshot - 08142011 - 03:43:07 AM]("http://www.flickr.com/photos/26187347@N06/6040496189/") by [timmay143]("http://www.flickr.com/people/26187347@N06/"), on Flickr[/U]

[[IMG]http://farm7.static.flickr.com/6077/6041054120_584b4407a0_b.jpg[/IMG]]("http://www.flickr.com/photos/26187347@N06/6041054120/")
[Screenshot - 08142011 - 03:48:34 AM]("http://www.flickr.com/photos/26187347@N06/6041054120/") by [timmay143]("http://www.flickr.com/people/26187347@N06/"), on Flickr

edit3:  Ok, so KDE was running slow.  Not sure if it had to do with the screens or not.  Quads do work in XFCE and Xubuntu.  I am going with Xubuntu for now.

Next steps: 1) see if I can get separate screen for each monitor and be able to move windows amongst them all and 2) get this to work in Unity!!

---

### Post by babygenius55 on 2011-08-24
I too became disgusted with 11.04.  i use 3 different monitors that all serve different purposes.  i had to go back to 10.10.  I'm very happy with it.  I would suggest all of you guys do the same if you can.  I think canonical is turning into MS.  Every release is considerably more annoying to deal with.

---

