---
title: "11.04 UI Intermittently Unresponsive"
date: 2011-08-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by root45 on 2011-08-08
Many of my UI elements become completely unresponsive. I'll describe some of the behavior that I can consistently repeat. I know this is long, but I'm trying to describe the behavior as best I can. Feel free to skim it if you have any ideas.

My system boots, I login and am brought to my desktop. I click on the file system icon in the launcher to open a Nautilus window. The window opens, but is unresponsive (i.e., I can't move it, clicking on the icons does nothing, etc.). If I press the super key to get the dash and the press escape, the window becomes responsive again, just like normal.

If I open a folder in the window, the window becomes halfway unresponsive in that I can't move the window, but I can select more folders and toolbar icons. The top menu no longer appears at this point, and I can't access any of the system icons on the top right of the screen. Alt-F4 closes the window even if the close button doesn't work.

As another example, suppose I open a Nautilus window and then a Chromium window. Both are immediately unresponsive. If I super-esc again, I can move the Chromium window around, and it seems to work normally. I can click on the Nautilus window, but it always stays greyed out. Even if I'm clicking on things in it, the Chromium window always has focus.

I had a similar experience to this with VLC and Chromium. After clicking around enough I eventually got it to the point where VLC apparently always had focus, but I couldn't access any of VLC's controls. Double clicking anywhere on the screen fullscreened the video, and that's all I could really do. Not even escape worked to bring it back.

I can usually press super to get the dash and Alt-F2 to get a command prompt. Also Alt-Shift-T seems to usually work to bring up a working Terminal (at least one that accepts commands, even if I can't move the window).

Does anyone have any ideas on what might be causing this? The behavior is highly unpredictable and extremely frustrating. I should note that key commands don't always work, even though they seem to in my examples. So I don't think it's just a mouse issue.

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2011-08-08
Try when before you type your password on login to look down at the bottom of your screen. You will see a bar with ***Ubuntu*** there. Click on it and change to Ubuntu Classic. This will load your desktop with gnome shell instead of Unity. Or do you want to keep unity at all costs?

---

### Post by root45 on 2011-08-08
I don't necessarily want to keep Unity at all costs, but I also don't want to rely on a window manager that won't be supported. I'd prefer to fix this issue, but if necessary I can switch back to Gnome 2.

---

### Post by root45 on 2011-08-09
Okay I just checked an this is not specific to Unity. I have the same problem when I login to GNOME Classic.

It's basically making my system unusable. Does anyone have any ideas about how to solve this?

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-08-09
What happens if you boot with the edd=on parameters?

(Hit esc during bootup, and hit tab to change the grub entry. Just stick this at the bottom).

---

### Post by root45 on 2011-08-09
There's no change when I add the edd=on parameter on boot.

---

### Post by root45 on 2011-08-13
Someone on AskUbuntu recommended I do a memory test and a badblocks test, both of which came back clean. Also, booting from the Live CD works fine.

I've tried dropping to a shell and restarting compiz, which doesn't fix the issue, but (perhaps relatedly) compiz doesn't restart properly. There are white bars around most UI elements (e.g. Gnome panels or menus).

Does anyone have another idea? I'm suck without a system right now.

---

### Post by root45 on 2011-08-13
Someone on launchpad suggesting checking for other users. In fact, making a new user and logging into that account, fixes the problem there and on my original account. Deleting the user makes the problem come back.

Also, I have to login to the new user before the problem stops on my usual user.

This works as a temporary solution, although I'd really prefer to know what's going on (now I'm really confused). Also, I don't particularly want a second account if it's unnecessary.

Does anyone know what's causing the problem and making it come back when I delete the second account?

Edit:

More information:

The second user account only gets me so far. I thought logging into the new user once would fix the problem indefinitely, but this is not the case. If I restart or even suspend my system, I need to login to the new account each time before my normal account works.

I'm so confused about what's happening here.

---

### Post by moephan on 2011-08-14
My first hunch would be that some process is running out of control. Next time it happens switch to a terminal or VT, and run top. See if anything is taking up your CPU.

---

### Post by root45 on 2011-08-14
Could be, but it's not as though the system is laggy. Everything runs fine, just certain things become frozen.

For example, I can start VLC playing a movie, and then open a nautilus window. At this point, the movie is still playing just fine, no lag or anything, but the windows are all frozen (both nautilus and VLC). I might be able to interact with the video (e.g. double click for fullscreen), but nothing else (including system menus).

Usually pressing super gets me the dash (with no lag) even if everything is frozen. I'll run top and report back, but I don't think it's an issue of a runaway process since there's no noticeable lag anywhere.

Edit: Yeah, running top produced no noticeable processes. Nothing more than 1% of system resources.

---

### Post by revoltism on 2011-08-15
> **root45 said:**
> Someone on launchpad suggesting checking for other users. In fact, making a new user and logging into that account, fixes the problem there and on my original account. Deleting the user makes the problem come back.

Also, I have to login to the new user before the problem stops on my usual user.

This works as a temporary solution, although I'd really prefer to know what's going on (now I'm really confused). Also, I don't particularly want a second account if it's unnecessary.

Does anyone know what's causing the problem and making it come back when I delete the second account?

Edit:

More information:

The second user account only gets me so far. I thought logging into the new user once would fix the problem indefinitely, but this is not the case. If I restart or even suspend my system, I need to login to the new account each time before my normal account works.

I'm so confused about what's happening here.

This sounds like a compiz bug or some configuration. When you make a new user that user get it owns configuration. Which could be an explanation. I am using Gnome-shell (not Gnome classic) right now and do not have in my head what folder you should delete.

I don't know how familiar you are with terminal but might be better doing it through there as it would not lock you up. If you hit ctrl+alt+f1 it will take you to a new tty.. ctrl+alt+f8 will take you back again. This is useful to know if you are trying to fix this kind of problems. Else do the below...

1. Open Nautilus and then hit ctrl+h to show hidden folders. Then go to .config and rename/move the compiz folder. I think you might have another folder right in your user root too named .compiz or something. rename/move that one too. Then restart your session by rebooting or logging out and in again. This should autoregenerate those folders again. If you have done any customization to compiz you would need to do them again. Hopefully this solves the problem.

2. Did you try to use metacity instead of compiz by doing "metacity --replace"? Don't know how well this work in Unity but in Gnome-shell it works whitout problem.

3. look inte logs if there are any abnormalities. Like "gedit ~/.xsession-errors" or "gedit /var/log/syslog"

4. open a new tty with ctrl+alt+f1 and write "startx -- :1" it will start a new xsession on tty9. You could go back to tty1 to see if any suspicious errors appear.

---

### Post by xadder on 2011-08-15
There seems to be something severely wrong with 11.04 for some older machines (and maybe ATI cards). I have a Thinkpad T43, which worked great from Dapper until a month ago, when I installed Natty. I quickly gave up on Unity and switched to gnome-classic (which I much prefer anyway). This only helped to some extent though. As with the post here, my machines was often crawling despite no obvious reason. Hearing that  nasty swapping crunch hour after hour really got on my nerves.

Yesterday I switched the T43 to Linux Mint 11, and it is so great! Fast machine again (by T43 standards), no swapping sounds, wonderful.

On the other hand, my stationary (and much newer) PC  also works great with 11.04. At least with gnome-classic. Shame Ubuntu does so little testing, or has moved to support for fancy new machines only.

---

### Post by revoltism on 2011-08-15
> **xadder said:**
> There seems to be something severely wrong with 11.04 for some older machines (and maybe ATI cards). I have a Thinkpad T43, which worked great from Dapper until a month ago, when I installed Natty. I quickly gave up on Unity and switched to gnome-classic (which I much prefer anyway). This only helped to some extent though. As with the post here, my machines was often crawling despite no obvious reason. Hearing that  nasty swapping crunch hour after hour really got on my nerves.

Yesterday I switched the T43 to Linux Mint 11, and it is so great! Fast machine again (by T43 standards), no swapping sounds, wonderful.

On the other hand, my stationary (and much newer) PC  also works great with 11.04. At least with gnome-classic. Shame Ubuntu does so little testing, or has moved to support for fancy new machines only.

Don't wanna go to much OT.. but..

Nowadays i encourage distro-hopping. It's easy to get caught by the ease of Ubuntu and forget that there are other great flavours out there. Linux Mint is good.. installed it for my dad who likes it a lot. I would not recommend full Ubuntu on old hardware though. It's easier to just install Arch to get a slim fully working desktop instead of trying to optify. Btw.. i have an ATI card and have had no problems since 2008.

---

### Post by root45 on 2011-08-15
> 1. Open Nautilus and then hit ctrl+h to show hidden folders. Then go to .config and rename/move the compiz folder. I think you might have another folder right in your user root too named .compiz or something. rename/move that one too. Then restart your session by rebooting or logging out and in again. This should autoregenerate those folders again. If you have done any customization to compiz you would need to do them again. Hopefully this solves the problem.

2. Did you try to use metacity instead of compiz by doing "metacity --replace"? Don't know how well this work in Unity but in Gnome-shell it works whitout problem.

3. look inte logs if there are any abnormalities. Like "gedit ~/.xsession-errors" or "gedit /var/log/syslog"

4. open a new tty with ctrl+alt+f1 and write "startx -- :1" it will start a new xsession on tty9. You could go back to tty1 to see if any suspicious errors appear.

I've deleted the following

.compiz, .gnome, .gnome2, .gnome2-private, .gconf, .gconfd, .metactiy, .config/compiz-1 (there was no .config/compiz).

I tried metacity --reset. This just got rid of most of my UI elements (panel, launcher, titlebars, etc.) but no solution.

I've also discovered that the secondary user doesn't solve the problem as I previously thought. The first user to log in (no matter which user it is) has the issue. The second user to log in fixes the problem for both users. Previously I had always logged into my own account and then logged into another, so I never noticed this.

This new development means that I can't carry out my previous plan of switching to a new user account. At this point, I'm pretty close to reinstalling. I have another harddrive in the mail that will be large enough to back up all my data completely.

But please, if anyone has any more ideas, tell me. I don't really want to reinstall if I don't need to do so.

---

