---
title: ".bash_logout script doesn't execute"
date: 2009-12-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Acuity on 2009-12-24
Hello,

I have a keyring login.keyring file that I don't want users to change.  I tried to make the keyring file read only, but the rights kept changing and keyrings kept being saved.

To get around this I tried further educating myself.  I made a keyring file and called it login.keyring.bak.  I added the following two lines to the ~/.bash_logout file..

```

rm /home/user/.gnome2/keyrings/login.keyring
cp /home/user/.gnome2/keyrings/login.keyring.bak /home/user/.gnome2/keyrings/login.keyring

```

This all works in terminal, but when I add it to .bash_logout, it doesn't seem to work.

As per suggested, I also tried adding...

```

$HOME/.bash_logout

```

to /etc/gdm/PostSession/Default but I'm still not having much luck.

I also tried chmod 755 on the .bash_logout file to no avail.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by kennethadammiller on 2009-12-28
"I have a question about the bash configurations on ubuntu. I've been trying to get a startup and logout script running on ubuntu, and .profile says that it isn't executed if .bash_profile or .bash_login exist in ~/ which i've had. but .bash_profile isn't being executed. I think i remember reading that .profile wasn't being executed by bash, just sh. that and i didn't read a #!/bin/bash at the top of the file. so what is .profile executed with? and why doesn't .bash_profile run at startup? last question-what do i do to get my logout script to run-i created a .bash_logout, but it's not being executed at logout." ---from xchat on #ubuntu and #bash

yea see i'm having the same problems. I don't know who did this but I want the customization capability. I don't know why anyone would remove this feature from ubuntu, it can't harm anything. and i don't know how a linux newbie would stumble over it

---

### Post by kennethadammiller on 2009-12-28
hey I found this shortly after posting that
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1185446](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1185446)

---

### Post by kennethadammiller on 2009-12-28
hey I found this
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1185446](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1185446)

---

### Post by falconindy on 2009-12-29
The problem is that you're specifying $HOME, which isn't being interpreted properly. You, as a user, only request that your GDM session ends. Another user (combination of gdm and root) actually does the legwork to close connections and send kill signals.

Long story short: Specify the full path to your .bash_logout script and it'll work.

---

### Post by capscrew on 2009-12-29
> **kennethadammiller said:**
> "I have a question about the bash configurations on ubuntu. I've been trying to get a startup and logout script running on ubuntu, and .profile says that it isn't executed if .bash_profile or .bash_login exist in ~/ which i've had. but .bash_profile isn't being executed. I think i remember reading that .profile wasn't being executed by bash, just sh. that and i didn't read a #!/bin/bash at the top of the file. so what is .profile executed with? and why doesn't .bash_profile run at startup? last question-what do i do to get my logout script to run-i created a .bash_logout, but it's not being executed at logout." ---from xchat on #ubuntu and #bash

yea see i'm having the same problems. I don't know who did this but I want the customization capability. I don't know why anyone would remove this feature from ubuntu, it can't harm anything. and i don't know how a linux newbie would stumble over it

This [**_[COLOR="DarkSlateGray"]article [/COLOR]_**]("http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2008/10/execution-sequence-for-bash_profile-bashrc-bash_login-profile-and-bash_logout/")describes the order and precedence of the config files the shell needs to parse for configuration.

There are at least 3 shells that are of interest.  They are: login, non-login interactive and non-login (non interactive).

---

### Post by kennethadammiller on 2009-12-29
falconindy: i don't know if you're talking to me or to Acuity, but I'm assuming Acuity because acuity was the one who discussed $HOME, anyway I understand that if I follow the same path that Acuity took, and perform the instruction that you suggested that this will work.

didn't mean to post what i had found twice, however, I found that there wasn't a .bash_logout within /etc at all, and that even if i created one there and shut down, that it wouldn't work.

i think i'm going to follow falconindy's addition to Acuity's steps and see what happens. but before that I'm going to read over what capscrew posted.

---

### Post by kennethadammiller on 2009-12-29
I read what capscrew said, and I understand he meant well, but all that that explained was the order of execution, which I already understood. I have yet to go with what falconindy said though. I'll give it a shot and report back.

---

