---
title: "Disable either internal or external monitor"
date: 2006-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by magnusbb on 2006-06-02
Hello,

I am using Dapper and have an ATI Mobility Radeon 9700 with the latest drivers (they're working great). But I have one problem (a slightly irritating one). Since I have a laptop, I mostly connect an external monitor to it while I am at home. But when this external monitor is connected, I want the internal monitor of the laptop off.

In the days of Breezy I was able to do this by adding the following to my /etc/X11/xorg.conf:
[Option 	"DesktopSetup"   "Single, Reverse"]

This turned off the internal monitor, while leaving the external on. When I add this to the Xorg.conf in Dapper both monitors will stay on, only that they will have the same resolution - which really is wrong.

I have noticed, that in the drivers bundled with Dapper (the most recent ones), there is something called "Dynamic Display Management" which should allow the user to switch monitors on the fly, without having to restart the X server. While this sounds like a great idea, it doesn't work here. My display goes fully mad when I try to switch of the "lvds" display, and I will have to restart the X server to get it working again.

Has someone managed to do turn off the internal monitor while having the external connected  in Dapper? I'll guess many would want this for practical reasons.

---

### Post by macgabhs on 2006-06-02
The way I deal with an external monitor is to have a two server layouts in my xorg.conf. One is the default which will use the laptop display and the other is for the external screen with the laptop screen turned off. 

So when I boot into the console i can use "startx" for the laptop screen or "startx -- -layout External" for the external monitor. I know this is probably not the most elegent solution but it works for me. Here's my xorg.conf so you can have a look

> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"ie"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
	Driver		"i810"
#	Option		"SWCursor"	"true"
#	Screen		0
	Option		"VBERestore"	"false"
#	Option		"Clone"	"true"
#	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option		"MonitorLayout"	"CRT,LFP"
	Option		"DevicePresence"	"false"
	Option		"DisplayInfo"		"false"	
EndSection

Section "Device"
     	Identifier  	"Intel1"
     	Driver      	"i810"
#	Option		"SWCursor"		"true"
#	Screen 		1
     	Option      	"VBERestore" 		"false"
     	#Option      "Clone" "true"
     	Option      	"MonitorLayout" 	"CRT,NONE"
#     	BusID       	"PCI:0:2:0"
     	Option      	"DevicePresence"	"false"
     	
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
     Identifier  "External Monitor"
     HorizSync   31-80
     VertRefresh 55-75
     Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800" 
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
     Identifier          "VGA"
     Device              "Intel1"
     Monitor             "External Monitor"
     DefaultDepth        24
     SubSection "Display"
         Depth 24
         Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	 #ViewPort 0 0
     EndSubSection
    
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
#	Screen		1	"VGA" 
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	#Option		"Xinerama"	"true"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"External"
	#Screen		0	"Default Screen"
	Screen		"VGA" 
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Option		"Xinerama"	"true"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by magnusbb on 2006-06-02
Thank you for your answer. I have testet bits of your configuration, but obviously it didn't work with my ATI fglrx driver. A bit confusing, but it seems to me that ATI changes their configuration from driver to driver.

But I have a suggestion for you while we're at it - you can actually detect the presense of an external display at bootup and have the system configure it for you automatically. Have a look at the configuration I used in Breezy. Here you will need a command called "/usr/sbin/ddcprobe" which luckily is included in Dapper and Breezy even in the standard install.

```
# determine whether an external display is attached
#cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.pre-local
if /usr/sbin/ddcprobe | grep -q "analog signal"; then
    echo "External Display attached."
    # set external display as exclusive primary
    # cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf.pre-local | sed 's#"Single"#"Single,Reverse"#g' > /etc/X11/xorg.conf
else
    echo "Using build-in LCD."
    # set build-in LCD as exclusive primary display
    # cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf.pre-local | sed 's#"Single,Reverse"#"Single"#g' > /etc/X11/xorg.conf
fi
```

Earlier I used a script like this at bootup to detect the presense of an external monitor, and then change the xorg.conf accordingly:

If you decide to use it, save it in /etc/init.d/ and make it executable with "chmod +x".

Then do an "update-rc-d script_name defaults", and you shall be up and running quickly.

---

### Post by magnusbb on 2006-06-02
Problem solved.

Here is the solution for those who wonder:
Option      "ForceMonitors" "crt1, nolvds"

This leaves the CRT1 (in my case actually a TFT) on, while it disables the internal LCD (lvds).

---

### Post by a274688 on 2006-08-17
Would it be possible to post a copy of you xorg.conf .. I'm pretty
new at this and was wondering where to insert your solution

Thanks

---

### Post by boom2k1 on 2007-06-01
i remember this /usr/sbin/ddcprobe worked for me. Are there better options now?

---

