---
title: "16.04 Boot much slower than 14.04..."
date: 2016-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2016-10-14
Somewhere along the line in upgrading 14.04 > 14.10 > 15.04 > 15.10 > 16.04, the boot time has become noticeably longer.

As well as my main 16.04 O.S. I also have 14.04LTS on the same PC, so can make a direct comparison.

From switch-on to Desktop:
14.04 takes 48 seconds
16.04 takes 76 seconds...

In both cases:
Time to Grub = 10 seconds
Pause at Grub = 3 seconds
Time for Login = 2 seconds

So Grub-to-Login for 14.04 is 26 seconds & for 16.04 is 48 seconds.
Login-to-Desktop for 14.04 is 7 seconds & for 16.04 is 13 seconds.

I would appreciate any help on diagnosing & improving this poorer performance.

I ran "systemd-analyze blame" for 16.04 with this result:
```
~$ systemd-analyze blame
          7.938s NetworkManager-wait-online.service
          6.502s systemd-fsck@dev-disk-by\x2duuid-5CD4\x2d9C1F.service
          6.348s dev-sda7.device
          5.575s colord.service
          4.650s apparmor.service
          4.215s winbind.service
          4.198s nmbd.service
          3.989s ModemManager.service
          3.929s plymouth-read-write.service
          3.788s samba-ad-dc.service
          3.730s accounts-daemon.service
          3.530s wpa_supplicant.service
          3.433s grub-common.service
          3.421s gpu-manager.service
          2.659s systemd-udevd.service
          2.611s NetworkManager.service
          2.525s snapd.firstboot.service
          2.149s networking.service
          2.128s irqbalance.service
```

...but I don't know whether these figures are OK or not.

I also ran "systemd-analyze plot > test.svg" to produce a very large chart, which I won't bother you with yet...

14.04 doesn't recognize "systemd-analyze" commands so I can't compare.

I do have "dmesg" files for both OS's, but am not sure how to interpret & use them.

So again - any advice would be appreciated!

I will very happily provide any further details & run any suggested tests.

Thanks!

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2016-10-14
Is it an uograde or a fresh install? Upgrade might have corrupted some configurations. My experience is opposite, 16.04 is faster than 14.04 on two different laptops. On a third I haven't had 14.04 (I just got it a few months ago, a hand me down), but 16.04 boots in 3 secs!

---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2016-10-14
Upgrades from 14.04 onward.

Question is - how to diagnose/fix the siuation?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2016-10-14
> **2CV67 said:**
> Upgrades from 14.04 onward.

Question is - how to diagnose/fix the siuation?

I recommend you just save your data and do a clean install, you probably have accumulated a lot of outdated and conflicting settings and god knows what from ongoing "upgrades". IMO there is no point to troubleshoot a bad upgrade (if it is because of that) since you don't know what other problems may be lurking and they may manifest later as hard to diagnose issues. 

It may also be a systemd thing as some people claim they have experienced slower boot since the switch, but I have not.

In any case a clean install will at least help you to isolate the problem if it still persists.

---

