---
title: "11.10 - smb.conf not used?"
date: 2011-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-10-25
I just added some shares via the nautilus GUI on my fresh 11.10 installation.

I went to edit /etc/samba/smb.conf to tweak some of the settings, but I did not see my shares listed in the file.

Are shares no longer written there, or is the file depreciated?

Where can I find the config file that contains the shares I set up via the GUI?

---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-10-26
Bueller?

---

### Post by rbc on 2011-10-26
```
Bueller?
``` Love that movie.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1217896](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1217896)

---

### Post by praganzi on 2011-10-26
Try /home/USER/.samba/smb.conf

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2011-10-27
> **kooldino said:**
> I just added some shares via the nautilus GUI on my fresh 11.10 installation.

I went to edit /etc/samba/smb.conf to tweak some of the settings, but I did not see my shares listed in the file.

Are shares no longer written there, or is the file depreciated?

Where can I find the config file that contains the shares I set up via the GUI?

Nautilus configured SMB shares (they are called usershares) are at /var/lib/samba/usershares

---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-11-02
> **redmk2 said:**
> Nautilus configured SMB shares (they are called usershares) are at /var/lib/samba/usershares

You win the thread.

I tried to share my home directory in Nautiulus, but it never seemed to take.  

Then, I created a test share elsewhere and it worked.  I found that test share in the directory you pointed to, so I just made a new share in there for my home directory.  Now I can connect to my home directory from another pc.  Not sure why I couldn't before.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-11-02
Now it looks like I can't follow symbolic links...

I tried putting the following links in both the smb.conf and the usershares:

>  follow symlinks = yes
 wide symlinks = yes
 unix extensions  = no

---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-11-04
bump

---

### Post by kooldino on 2011-11-06
Anyone?

---

