---
title: ".bashrc function tab completion problem"
date: 2010-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by muon205 on 2010-07-04
Hi,

I tried to make a function to put in either my .bash_aliases or .bashrc file to make a local backup of a file, but when I call the function and try to use tab completion I get the following error:

```
cp: cannot stat `help': No such file or directory
```The function I added is as follows:

```
function bk
{
    \cp -f --backup=numbered ${1} ${1}.bak
}

```Interestingly, the tab completion still technically "works" properly, but this message inserts itself into the tab-completed file name.

So for example, if there is a file called "doc.txt" that I want to make a  backup copy of, and at the prompt I type "bk do[tab]", I immediately see "bk docp: cannot stat `help': No such file or directory\nc.txt" (the "\n" there is actually a new line, it doesn't print "\n").  And then if I press enter, it performs the backup.

Also interestingly, if I define this function at the prompt rather than in my .bashrc, tab completion works fine.

Thoughts?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2010-07-07
The fact that it works if the function is defined on the command line points at the nature of the problem. If you define the function before sourcing /etc/bash_completion, the problem you describe happens. If you define the function after sourcing /etc/bash_completion, the problem doesn't happen. So, put the function definition at the very end of .bashrc and it'll work as you want it to.

I'm not sure why this fixes the problem; I just know that it does.

---

### Post by muon205 on 2010-07-07
Ah, yes, that's a very good point.  I hadn't noticed the sourcing of /etc/bash_completion.

Thanks!

---

### Post by muon205 on 2010-07-07
Oops.  I realized I had restated previous post.

---

