---
title: "19.10 - Kate opens new instance of kate for each document opened"
date: 2019-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 7achoneus on 2019-10-28
This seems to be a change made to Kate's behavior when opening documents in Kubuntu 19.10.  I recently installed Kubuntu 19.10 from scratch, and after opening a first document in Kate, by double-clicking or right-click>open with in Dolphin, and then repeating the same process for a second text file, the second text file opens in a new instance of Kate.

I do allot of programming, and I liked the way Kate opened multiple files in the same instance, before Kubuntu 19.10.

I did some google searching and the only thing I could find is that Kate used to have a -U flag that would force documents to open in the same instance.  Kate doesn't seem to have this anymore when previewing commands with "kate --help" in a terminal.

I did a search through Kates preferences and I don't see anything that would change this behavior.  Same thing with dolphin.  I have taken to a brief search to see if there might be something in Kubuntu's system settings, but I haven't spotted anything there yet.

Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by norobro on 2019-10-28
I don't run Kubuntu but I have a Debian Sid system with KDE5 and all files open in a new tab of the running instance of Kate. ```
$ kate --version
kate 19.08.1

```Seems to have been a bug that they say is fixed: [https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=410742](https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=410742)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-10-28
Is kate a snap package?
**snap list** will show the list.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-10-29
I'm running 19.10 with Kate from the standard repositories.  Files open in separate tabs within a single instance.  I don't see any setting that would change this behavior.  I'm not using any extra command-line options either.

---

