---
title: "17.04 has problem sometimes with turning on night light"
date: 2017-08-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-08-21
Using 17.04. -> 16.04.3 upgraded to 17.04 via Ubuntu Software Updater, using default gnome selected at password box.

I'll be working along and suddenly the screen will shrink/blank, pause and then re-appear but with obvious pink.  This last happened at about 11pm. I don't seem to lose anything and it doesn't seem to indicate an error. Happens maybe 3 times a week. At the moment it is about 7:45PM and screen is appropriately pinkish. Just reporting it though I consider it minor.

On another note, I have gotten a few shell errors(SIGSEGV), but again lost nothing and recovered perfectly. I usually find out about it when I minimize FF and find the message sitting there. No idea of situation causing it.

Basically I LOVE it and can't wait for 17.10!

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2017-08-22
Moved to ***General Help***, as 17.04 isn't a development release.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-08-22
Looks like a hardware error. It could be the graphics card/chip, the cable or the monitor. Do you use an old-fashioned VGA connector? Because this looks like an error in an analogue system.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-08-22
> **Impavidus said:**
> Looks like a hardware error. It could be the graphics card/chip, the cable or the monitor. Do you use an old-fashioned VGA connector? Because this looks like an error in an analogue system.

Thanks. No. Relatively high end. GTX750 Ti, HDMI to HDMI. Did not have this error on 16.04.3 nor win7.  381.22 open source from Ubuntu Software and Updates. Could update to 384.59 I suppose...  My suspicion is that night light is not being set and suddenly realizes it and repaints.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-08-22
I noted it was 21:40 and night light was NOT on. I shut it off(it flashed pink, then white), and turned it on and it turned on correctly. (currently using 384.59, so not a driver problem) 

I will no longer use Ubuntu display night light.  I'll use an app.(Redshift)(I was using it with no probs up until at most 2 weeks ago, more like a week ago.)

---

