---
title: "PHP not working. Firefox &quot;Save File&quot; dialoge comes up"
date: 2006-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lucas.clemente on 2006-04-28
It's like the PHP module is not running. 

I install everything that says "PHP4" or "php5" in synaptic package manager. 

I re-boot

No dice. When i go to [http://localhost/phpbb2/Index.php](http://localhost/phpbb2/Index.php)  the firefox "Save File" dialouge box opens. 

???

---

### Post by echo $USER on 2006-04-28
Obviously apache isn't set up correctly to serve php pages.  Uninstall everything php related in synaptic and follow this [guide]("http://easylinux.info/wiki/Ubuntu#How_to_install_PHP_for_Apache_HTTP_Server") to setting it up.

---

### Post by lucas.clemente on 2006-04-28
Yep. That did it!

Now to set up phpmyadmin,,, damn config.inc.php
grumble grumble. What are the default mysql credentials when you install mysql?

---

### Post by echo $USER on 2006-04-28
By default there is no password for the mysql root account so you need to set one:  i think the syntax for that is:

> mysql -u root -p

then it should prompt you to create a passwd for the account.

Check out this at [mysql.com]("http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/4.1/en/default-privileges.html") if you run into any trouble.

---

### Post by Bartje on 2008-02-08
I've got the same problem here, from online websites, not on my localhost. Most often, after a reboot, php-pages are opened correctly. It is as if some service suddenly stops for one reason or another.

I do not understand the tips mentioned here to solve this problem. PHP is serverside-scripting. Re-installing php on your own computer shouldn't change anything. The browser reads, get's html, generated by the php-software on the server. Or am I wrong?

---

