---
title: "10.04 x64, Firefox &amp; Flash element issues solved?"
date: 2010-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-05-23
Hello.

For the longest time I have had a issue with 10.04 x64 (possible 32bit as well) where firefox had issues playing flash elements. Let me give my examples.  YouTube videos would play fine of YouTubes site, but if I went to say a forum or another site where the video had been embedded from YouTube, I couldn't play it. Nothing would work in the video box, not even clicking to watch at youtube.

Today 1 of my twin boys had an issue with one computer not playing flash games while my other twin son could on another computer. Both computers running 10.04 x64. Keep in mind my personal computer is where I noticed the issues. So i put Google Chrome on both computers hoping to solve the issue till a fix came out.  Well, just messing around & I noticed 1 differ between the 2 computers my boys were using, & its surprising that this actually fixes our issues on all our computers.

System, Preferences, Appearance, Visual Effects.  1 computer for my twins had the option "None" selected while the other computer & mine had the "Extra" option selected. Low & behold, if all computers use the "None" option, then suddenly all flash elements work fine where they didn't before when on the "Extra" option....

No idea why a setting to allow better visuals screws up flash in Firefox, but for us it does.


P.S. I posted this on the [Firefox issue board for this issue as well]("https://support.mozilla.com/en-US/forum/1/524191?forumId=1&comments_threshold=0&comments_parentId=524191&comments_offset=40&comments_per_page=20&thread_style=commentStyle_plain").

---

### Post by jpl888 on 2010-06-02
I can confirm same.

All flash apps work properly if you have effects set to "none" or "normal", if set to "extra" some elements in some apps don't work.

Go figure.

Is that 100 paper cuts thing still going on cos this would be a good candidate?

---

### Post by jpl888 on 2010-06-02
Small addendum. This only worked when set to "normal" the first time I tried it.

---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-06-04
[Flash-Aid]("http://flash-aid-extension.blogspot.com/") works wonders for n00bs!

Direct link to the [FF addon]("https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/161939/").

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-06-04
> **PinchedNerve said:**
> [Flash-Aid]("http://flash-aid-extension.blogspot.com/") works wonders for n00bs!

Direct link to the [FF addon]("https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/161939/").

Thanks for recommending my extension. I'm afraid it won't solve this particular problem. I have helped another user with the exact same problem and he figured out that allowing third party cookies would fix the problem. Nevertheless, it works for me even if I block all cookies. Go figure.

---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-06-04
> **lovinglinux said:**
> Thanks for recommending my extension. I'm afraid it won't solve this particular problem. I have helped another user with the exact same problem and he figured out that allowing third party cookies would fix the problem. Nevertheless, it works for me even if I block all cookies. Go figure.

Actually I tried allowing 3rd party cookies & that didn't work for me. However, after installing you're extension & it installed flash again (x64) I now have the appearance on extra & flash elements working fine on all 4 computers in my house running 10.04 x64.

P.S. I think I seen someone write that there was a x32 flash install that used a x64 wrapper?  Maybe that was my issue all along?

---

### Post by sugarsim on 2010-06-04
I had the same problem but followed the instructions in this link (provided by some kind soul on this forum) and it now works nicely.:)

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-06-04
> **PinchedNerve said:**
> P.S. I think I seen someone write that there was a x32 flash install that used a x64 wrapper?  Maybe that was my issue all along?

Yes.

> **sugarsim said:**
> I had the same problem but followed the instructions in this link (provided by some kind soul on this forum) and it now works nicely.:)

Which link?

---

