---
title: "8.10 Firefox issues"
date: 2008-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SR_ELPIRATA on 2008-12-30
Hello all:

I've been having some nuissances with Firefox for the last month or so. It basically happens whenever I right click on any link/picture to open in a new tab.

Many times works as usual, but I also often get other behaviours like:

- Compose a new email
- Bookmark this page

At first I thought that this was perhaps a site related thing but its happening me also here! As I said, its a nuissance, I just simply cancel them dialog boxes and try again, but many times the errors present themselves again in the next try, then next try does the bookmarking page, and again, and then goes back to normal behaviour.

Any thoughts or others having this same small issue?

(Its small as long as I dont get mad enough to squash the keyboard and the mouse).

Oh yes, forgot to mention. This has happened as well with my other 2 Ubuntu computers and also on another that has gOS 3.0 with firefox (based on the 8.04 ubuntu). I havent tried other live cds to test though, but was ood that 2 different computers had the same problem.

ELP

---

### Post by wdaniels on 2008-12-30
I don't have any solution but just wanted to add that this happens to me occasionally as well - just with a single right click sometimes it acts as though I selected one of the context menu options (e.g. to download or email the link) without the menu having been displayed. Usually it happens when the system is under load though it's definitely not a case that a left-click just got delayed being processed or whatever, it actually invents the menu selection completely.

I don't know whether this is a more general problem with either XUL or Gtk with context menus but I've only ever noticed it with Firefox, and only ever when right-clicking a link. I expect somebody has filed a bug report at some point but I doubt I'll be able to find it and with it not being easily reproducible it would be difficult to fix. But maybe someone out there had more energy than me right now :D

---

