---
title: "2.6.15-27-k7 kernel + nvidia-glx = broken?"
date: 2006-09-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Slychilde on 2006-09-19
Greetings,

I just ran the update-manager and got the latest restricted modules, *-27 kernel and nvidia-glx update and when I rebooted in the 2.6.15-27-k7 kernel I got dumped to the CLI.  I restarted in the 2.6.15-27-386 kernel and everything worked just fine.  Would there be a reason that the nvidia-glx drivers wouldn't work with one version of the kernel, but would with another?  I'm guessing it's something I did wrong on my side, but just in case: anyone with that make-up, beware. :)

I did check and the *-27-386 kernel is using the 'nvidia' module right now.

---

### Post by Ramses de Norre on 2006-09-19
```
sudo aptitude install linux-restricted-modules-k7
```

---

### Post by madmetal on 2006-09-19
same here... i update my system and after reboot with k7 kernel i got an xorg problem...
then boot with the 386 kernel and everything's fine..

edited : i though i saw restricted modules at updates.. i always check restricted modules when using k7 but i guess this time i missed them...
#-o

---

### Post by Slychilde on 2006-09-19
Same here, I knew I saw a restricted modules pack and thought to myself "everything looks okay, might as well go for it." but I guess it just did it for the 386 kernel.  Thanks, that fixed it.

Now why would it get the 386 restricted modules but not the k7?  I have been using the k7 now for a while and only use the 368 for recovery purposes, so the old k7 restricted modules should have been on there before or I wouldn't have an gnome-environment?

---

### Post by Ramses de Norre on 2006-09-19
I guess the kernel specific one was installed but the meta package wasn't..

---

