---
title: "problem in switching resolutions"
date: 2009-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by max14 on 2009-04-20
I use ubuntu 8.10.

The problem is that whenever i go to ctrl+alt+F2 desktop and try to return back, i get a blank black screen. I then cannot reach the GUI desktop(reboot remains the only option). Also the graphics do not seem to be much great and my videos run far away from smooth.
Below is how my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file looks...
[B]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/B]

I guess problem lies somewhere here.
My card is (onboard) Intel 82845GL and i use ImageQuest 770FH (17 inch) real flat CRT monitor.

Sorry for the length of the post.

---

