---
title: "11.04 Live CD: force classic mode even if Unity will work?"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Xtomik on 2011-05-02
Is there any way when booting the LiveCD of Ubuntu 11.04 to force the use of classic mode, even if the computer meets the requirements to use Unity and would otherwise start Unity?

Is there a kernel parameter that would do this?

In searching, all I can find is the selection during login, but this seems to only show up after a full installation, I want to do this in the Live CD environment.

Thanks

---

### Post by ibexslam on 2011-05-20
I'm looking for a way to do just the opposite.

I just tried the live CD, and it comes up in "classic" mode on my machine. Haven't found how to get the "2D" unity to come up to try out. I tried restarting X (if I'm expressing that properly), but there was a password prompt I couldn't get past.

---

### Post by Larkspur on 2011-05-20
> **Xtomik said:**
> Is there any way when booting the LiveCD of Ubuntu 11.04 to force the use of classic mode, even if the computer meets the requirements to use Unity and would otherwise start Unity?

Is there a kernel parameter that would do this?

In searching, all I can find is the selection during login, but this seems to only show up after a full installation, I want to do this in the Live CD environment.

Thanks

Maybe using a LiveUSB would work if you set up persistence, so you could set up classic gnome as the default session as you would for a normal installation.  I haven't tried it myself, though. 

ibexslam, Unity2D isn't included by default; once you install Ubuntu, you can download it from the Software Center.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-20
It would be wonderful to have the option to automatically install Classic Gnome verses Unity within the gui-installer

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-20
In 11.10 Unity 2D will be the default and Unity will be launched if a freshly installed or newly upgraded OS detects the presence of an accelerated graphics card onboard.

---

### Post by tec78636 on 2011-08-09
> **Larkspur said:**
> Maybe using a LiveUSB would work if you set up persistence, so you could set up classic gnome as the default session as you would for a normal installation.  I haven't tried it myself, though. 


Yes it does. I was using harddriveless laptop this way. However, something caused the usb drive to malfunction, so I am now trying to use classic mode with actual live cd until I get another flash drive.

---

### Post by dryphi on 2011-08-30
I'm currently trying to do this as well.
I've created a LiveUSB using the Startup Disk Creator and enabled persistence. I will report back once I get it working.
Likewise let me know if you figure anything else out.

I guess the only way is to try and boot into the LiveUSB and update from there? Seems like you should be presented with an option after you click "Try Ubuntu".
Maybe there is a way to modify the ISO image and force Gnome??

---

### Post by dryphi on 2011-08-30
There's no "Log Out" option in the power menu in "Unity mode" ... :-/

---

### Post by dryphi on 2011-08-31
Here we go:
[http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/](http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/)
Elementary

EDIT: Doesn't seem to work. Apparently the classic mode needs a login?

---

