---
title: "10.04 Swell Foop crashes"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jaezcurra on 2010-05-01
Hi, when you are playing normally with Swell Foop and hover the mouse outside the game frame, it crashes suddenly with no error messages.  It happened with a Dell Dimension and with a ZaReason A20. both running Lucid.

---

### Post by ants280 on 2010-05-01
I am also getting this problem.  I doubt any specific hardware causes this.

---

### Post by jaezcurra on 2010-05-01
That's what I thought, but I wrote the hardware specs just in case ...

---

### Post by basementwall on 2010-05-03
Same thing is happening for me on an MSI Wind U100 netbook running Lucid.

And what's especially frustrating is that Same Gnome, which Swell Foop replaced, A) is prettier to look at, and B) didn't crash. But I can't figure out a way to get Same Gnome back the way it used to be, since the two programs conflict!

---

### Post by jaezcurra on 2010-05-04
Bump

---

### Post by davester65 on 2010-05-05
Bump 2

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2010-05-05
Happening to me too and I believe there is already a bug report on Launchpad.

If you run it from terminal you will see that when it crashes, it dies of a segfault.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-games/+bug/574876]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-games/+bug/574876")

---

### Post by markus_x on 2010-05-18
>>And what's especially frustrating is that Same Gnome, which Swell Foop replaced, 
>> A) is prettier to look at,  and B) didn't crash. But I can't figure out a way to get 
>>Same Gnome  back the way it used to be, since the two programs conflict!

And beside of this it sucks almost 100% CPU load and is definitely unuseable on my
Toshiba Qosmio G10 with NVIDIA GO5700 #-o

Kicked it out and reinstalled Same Gnome again with hints from
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1468302](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1468302)

---

### Post by rarsa on 2010-06-08
Does anyone have any idea why a game that worked was replaced for one that does not?

---

### Post by pentium_pro on 2010-07-01
> **rarsa said:**
> Does anyone have any idea why a game that worked was replaced for one that does not?

Ask Gnome developers,this bug is their fault. How I know this? Because, game crashes also in Arch Linux, and that Gnome is vanilla.

---

### Post by ricgal on 2010-07-18
I also am seeing this happen. Sometimes I can play the game through, and sometimes not. I'm on last year's Asus M3A78-CM mobo with on board video and sound, have lots of USB stuff plugged in, with a couple of hubs. Logitech camera, HP printer, several memory sticks.

:p

---

### Post by mikefreeman on 2010-10-27
I can't even get the program to start at all. In the terminal, I get:

> seed: error while loading shared libraries: libgirepository-1.0.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directoryThat's the only program I can find that crashes with this error. I REALLY wish there was a way to get Same Gnome back.

---

### Post by kaj on 2010-12-11
Who have decided to replace Same Gnome with Swell Foop?

That is really stupid. Teh damn thing crashes nearly every time.
The few times, I have finished a game, the result are never registered.

---

### Post by ricgal on 2010-12-19
I am still playing the swell foop game, even though it crashes every 3rd or 4th time I use it.

Does anyone know if the game has been fixed in Maverick (Ubuntu 10.10)?
If it is, then they should back port the fix, so we can enjoy it in the 10.04 long term release.:popcorn:

---

