---
title: "9.10 freeze on boot"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by apemax on 2009-11-08
I am using ubuntu 9.10 and it keeps freezing on boot. I have tried using a different kernel and the recovery mode but it just keeps freezing. when i try to boot normal mode it freezes with a black screen and a blinking underscore. with recovery mode it freezes when i scroll down on the recover mode options menu. this morning i changed some of the partitions so it would hibernate but it booted then. I put it on hibernate and then when i tried to boot it now it won't. all i did was make the swap partition, file system partition and the extended partition that they are in bigger. I don't know what to try. please help.

---

### Post by William Oakes on 2009-11-08
I have the same problem. I just upgraded to 9.10 karmic. At the boot, I get the ubuntu symbol, then the screen goes blank. In order to access ubuntu, i have to hit f 12 and boot from the hard disc rather than normal boot. I tried to change things in the boot sequence but no luck so far.
Any suggestions or things I left out that may help solving this problem

---

### Post by chrnoble on 2009-11-08
Yup, same here. 9.10 will not boot normally- I have to hit f12 and boot from the hard disk. It's a minor pain so far- I like almost everything else about 9.10- but a solution would be appreciated.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-08
Sounds like different issues to me.

William Oakes and chrnoble you seem to have a problem with grub. i would suggest reinstalling grub from the livecd. you can find detailed instructions here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20from%20LiveCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20from%20LiveCD)

If you have trouble with that, i suggest starting a new thread so this one doesnt become too confusing.


**apemax**, 

Can you tell me what hardware you are using ?

---

### Post by William Oakes on 2009-11-08
This happened after being prompted to upgrade from 9.4 to 9.10 so I dont have the CD just whatever was d loaded from the update manager

---

### Post by Druke on 2009-11-08
is [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1316305")  A related issue?

---

### Post by olsoveasna on 2009-12-26
As of now, I can't access my kubuntu 9.10. It freezes everytime loading desktop. I don't know how to do now.

---

