---
title: "9.04 &quot;Authentication failed&quot; on login"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thenaesh on 2009-04-24
I upgraded to 9.04 through the system updater. The problem is that I can't log into my system. Before I can even enter a username, the only message that comes up is "Authentication failed". This message keeps popping up, so it's impossible for me to enter anything into the user name box or even click the options.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-04-24
> **thenaesh said:**
> I upgraded to 9.04 through the system updater. The problem is that I can't log into my system. Before I can even enter a username, the only message that comes up is "Authentication failed". This message keeps popping up, so it's impossible for me to enter anything into the user name box or even click the options.

Unplug you keyboard in case it hasn't been detected correctly and is pumping bad characters into the login process.

If it helps then plug it back in again and see what happens.

---

### Post by thenaesh on 2009-04-24
> **dcstar said:**
> Unplug you keyboard in case it hasn't been detected correctly and is pumping bad characters into the login process.

If it helps then plug it back in again and see what happens.

I'm actually using a laptop

---

### Post by bradfattori on 2009-04-25
I had the same issue:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3605925](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3605925)

Worked for me.

Do the Alt-Cntrl-F1 at the screen first off

---

### Post by NDenison on 2009-05-09
I have the same issue.

I pressed cntrl-alt-f1, then entered my user name and password. When I type gedit /ete/pam.d/gdm  it returns  Gtk-WARNING **: cannot open display

Any ideas?

---

### Post by thenaesh on 2009-05-09
> **NDenison said:**
> I have the same issue.

I pressed cntrl-alt-f1, then entered my user name and password. When I type gedit /ete/pam.d/gdm  it returns  Gtk-WARNING **: cannot open display

Any ideas?


I'm having the exact same problem. I can log in just fine after ctrl+alt+F1 but when I exit that I run into the same error.

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-05-09
Did you try:
```

Ctrl-Alt-F1
sudo nano /etc/pam.d/gdm
```

Note there is an "etc", not "ete" in "/etc/pam.d/gdm".

---

### Post by thenaesh on 2009-05-09
Thanks for all the help. I finally got it fixed, but I had to use nano instead of gedit to fix pam.d/gdm

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-05-09
> **thenaesh said:**
> Thanks for all the help. I finally got it fixed, but I had to use nano instead of gedit to fix pam.d/gdm

That is because gedit is a GUI text editor and ctrl-alt-F1 takes you to a virtual console where you have no xorg, no gnome, therefore no GUI. You have to use a console editor such as nano instead. Presumably the poster in that linked thread was able to get into the gnome desktop to do the edit.

---

### Post by lorenzosu on 2009-09-16
Hi all in my case the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install gdm --reinstall --purge
```

solved the problem.

(I must credit cehteh from the #cinelerra channel in freenode for suggesting a reinstall of gdm).

Lorenzo

---

