---
title: "Mount harddrives"
date: 2007-08-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by _sAm_ on 2007-08-17
H, I  am trying to learn how to mount and unmount harddrives in Linux(since I have some problems in Ubuntu). I have been reading some guides. My first question is; do you know of a user friendly guide for me? 
Second, I came across this; 

*If you're migrating to Linux from Microsoft Windows, you're probably used to accessing all your filesystems very easily: you just boot up your puter, go to My Computer, and find all your Windows partitions there immediately. For example, if you have a second hard drive (or a second Windows partition), it automatically appears as D:\ and you can immediately access it. The same goes for floppies, CD-ROMs, digital cameras, and other storage devices - you just plug them in, and you'll be able to immediately access them. However, this isn't the case in Linux.*

**However, this isn't the case in Linux**
Could you tell why this is the case, what are the benefit with the way Linux handles this? I think it would bee easier for me to understand if I first understand the reason behind this solution, cus now it sounds so much better how windows automaticaly mounts the new disks. 

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-08-17
Is the partition you want to mount ntfs filesystem?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G)

---

### Post by _sAm_ on 2007-08-17
No and yes. I have a external harddrive(usb2), and have used it before without any trouble. It has the ntfs file system, but the ntfs-3g has made it usefull in Ubuntu. But now it suddenly only gives me read access. I tried the NTFS Configuration Tool, but I think I have messed up the fstab list. Cus I have somehow managed to mount a internal disk with windows on(witch I have unmounted now). 

Perhaps this would be easier to understand then me; sudo nano /etc/fstab

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=5312c3b9-fff6-49d8-b0a2-ec1d7c9aa624 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb3 :
UUID=c8bf26cc-7656-426c-b97d-dfd70f8fc335 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sdb4 :
UUID=b48defac-711e-4de9-80da-4ee1da2bb5a6 /media/sda4 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sdb2 :
UUID=2019c5c9-19db-4c27-826b-e8bcffcb64e9 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdc5 /media/Personlig ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0

This looks messed up to me, so before doing anymore wrong I thought I could learn how to do things before I do more wrong...

---

### Post by Gnub_Daemon on 2007-08-17
Yeah...Linux and NTFS don't get along very well.  I would suggest you copy your flash drive to a folder in windows then reformat it to fat32.

Another option would be to get the ext2ifs (I just googled: ext2 windows) drivers for windows, then do the same as above except format as ext2 or ext3 using gparted.  Then you can read and write to the ext2/3 usb using windows, and you will have no problems using in on your linux box.

Happy Ubunting.

---

### Post by venik212 on 2007-08-17
It seems that you cannot format large drives (500 gb) using FAT32.

---

