---
title: "/dev/sda 5 : clean, 313619/20373504 files,3077329/81488640 blocks"
date: 2016-09-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by trambar18 on 2016-09-11
I have a problem when i start up my dual-boot (windows 10 and Ubuntu 16.04 LTS) computer.
when I start it up I first get a purple screen that says nothing, then I get the standard loading screen and then a black screen pops up saying: ** /dev/sda 5 : clean, 313619/20373504 files,3077329/81488640 blocks**. is this normal. if it isn't, how do I fix this?

[IMG]file:///home/mats/Documents/ubuntu%20help/ubuntu%20forum/dev%20sda5%20clean%20blocks/IMG_20160911_111125.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Jimysbil on 2016-09-11
You have to upload the image you want to saw us (not to copy-paste your local path).

At first I think it would be better if you booted from a live cd/dvd/usb in order to procced in partition correction process in case this is your system partition.

If your partition is ext4 open a terminal and type:
```
sudo su
fsck.ext4 -v /dev/sda5
```

In case this command doesn't help you out, you probably have bad superblock.At first you have to find where are your superblock backups.Type:
```
mke2fs -n /dev/sda5
```
It with print you some block numbers.
Now you have to try every one from them until you find a working one by typing a command like this:
```
e2fsck -b [COLOR="#FF8C00"]{block number}[/COLOR] /dev/sda5
```
In every try reboot your system and check it out.

---

### Post by trambar18 on 2016-09-11
dear jimysbil, sadly none of the commands worked. my terminal aborts every action because my /dev/sda5 partition is still mounted
how can i solve this

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-09-11
It's common to see such a message. I see it too. Consider it a feature of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2016-09-11
Assuming that you get to login screen after that and everything is working normally, then it's nothing to worry about. The message you see is not an error or warning, its just telling you that the filesystem on /dev/sda5 is fine. (it probably didn't even run actual check, but just quickly checked the filesystem journal to see if it's reporting the filesystem as being OK. That happens on every boot and is not an indication of any kind of problem)

Of course you shouldn't be *seeing* the message if there's nothing wrong, usually the loading screen should hide everything that's happening in the background, but depending on your graphics card/driver/some other things, the loading screen system isn't exactly perfect and you might sometimes see some messages before or after the loading screen.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-09-11
Yes, it seems quite normal on 16.04 though I did not see it on 14.04.  It is simply information not a warning.

If you run the command ```
sudo tune2fs -l /dev/sda5
``` the output will contain lines telling you when the filesystem was last checked and other info.  Here's my output related to this.
```
Last checked:             Wed Jul 13 10:45:11 2016
Check interval:           5616000 (2 months, 5 days)
Next check after:         Fri Sep 16 10:45:11 2016
```

---

