---
title: "[8.10] Persistent Flash Drive issues"
date: 2008-12-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Rapture2k4 on 2008-12-20
Greetings,

My wife got me an old Dell Dimension 4500 from freecycle and it had a bad HD in it. I didn't have a spare IDE drive laying around, but I had a few flash drives. So I go to PenDriveLinux.com and tried their tutorials. I also tried doing the Startup Boot Disk from LiveCD aswell.

What happens is when I do updates, it wants to update the kernel to the latest 8.10 (which seems like a good idea) but it either fails to update (unable to backup something related to the old kernel, I forget the error exactly) or once it completes and I reboot, it fails to load into the GUI. It will go through the motions, give me the splash screen, and then dump to the init CLI. If I type ./init, it will attempt to load again and fail with no error messages.

Am I doing something wrong or is it an issue with persistent flash drives?

If I don't update the kernel, everything works just fine and I've got it running as a print server and file server for my external HD. Not bad considering I've only got 256MB of ram in this old bugger.

---

### Post by Rapture2k4 on 2008-12-20
The error I'm getting during update is:

```

E: /var/cache/apt/archives/linux-image-2.6.27-7-generic_2.6.27-7.16_i386.deb: unable to make backup link of `./lib/modules/2.6.27-7-generic/initrd/vesafb.ko' before installing new version

```

Also, I found out that a flat reboot without the updates also fails to load but I found a fix. I am using PenDriveLinux.com's Boot CD since my machine cannot boot from USB. I change the boot command to include noatime and removed splash and quiet. It boots just fine after that. Not sure why.

Any clues why I can't update the kernel. Also, is there a way to do this persitent boot with Ubuntu Server 8.10? I haven't found any tutorials for it.

---

### Post by Rapture2k4 on 2008-12-23
Been working on this for 3 days and cannot get this to work. I can install the OS to my thumb drive, but as soon as I reboot, it fails to load the GUI. Sometimes a ./init will work, but it mostly fails.

The same thing happens for any other Debian based OS I try. Am I retarded or is my Dell just too old?

---

### Post by praxis1949 on 2008-12-26
Hi,

Interesting tale for you: I was visiting a friend of my mothers (83 years old), and found that the hard disk had failed on her computer (overheating, I think). TYried my flash drive; it would not load, and kept whining about a swap file failure (error message). I was able to get the hard drive working again, and, lo and behold, the flash disk (Ubuntu 8.10) started working just fine again.

Moral of story: I think the verion on the flash drive (Ubuntu 8.10)from penlite (I think) needs to create a swap file on a hard drive to work.

Go figure.


John S
Gatineau, QC

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2008-12-26
If you want to be able to do updates and upgrades try installing from the CD to a USB flash try doing a full install just as you would to a hard drive.
This takes up a bit more space but you end up with a system if fully upgradable.
you can even make a separate home partition.

---

### Post by Rapture2k4 on 2008-12-28
Any specific options I should use for grub?

I.E. noatime

Also, how would I handle booting from USB via a Boot CD? I came across something on PenDriveLinux.com, but I'm not sure if it will work after I do a kernel update.

---

### Post by Rapture2k4 on 2008-12-28
So I have successfully install Ubuntu Server onto my flash drive.  I can't boot from my fileserver box with the LiveCD boot cd creation method. Nor does the PenDriveLinux iso work either. If I manually type in grub (from said BootCD):

```

root (hd0,1)
chainloader +1
boot

```

It will eventually boot (takes much longer than expected and MUCH longer than the LiveCD).

Is there a way to create a boot CD from this flash-drive on my lappy or tower? I tried the method listed here:
[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2008/12/17/create-a-cd-to-boot-ubuntu-from-usb/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2008/12/17/create-a-cd-to-boot-ubuntu-from-usb/)

But that doesn't work, nor does it apply to server edition. Basically, I'm looking for a dumbed down guide to making a GRUB CD or even a different loader, as long as it will give me usb drivers and allow booting from it.

Any clues?

---

