---
title: "10.04=10.04.2 not 10.04.4"
date: 2012-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-05-14
Hi all,

Long story short. Changing to the install of 10.04 LTS as my main squeeze as the 10.10 install I've been using, which is all sweet so I'd rather not have to do this at all, has reached EOL and is out of support. Having a couple of issues and this is the first (figure it might remedy a couple of others if I can fix it).

Noticed that I am running 10.04.2, not the latest 10.04.4. I installed 10.04 awhile ago, could have been a minimal install and I could be missing something. I sudo apt-get updated and upgraded but stays on the same version.

I have searched a bit but found nothing relating to updating the release version, if that is what it is.

Any help? Thanks in advance ...

The Buckster ;)

---

### Post by plucky on 2012-05-14
Try running from a terminal ```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
``` and it should tell you what it is going to try to do before you have to say Yes or No.
Make sure it doesn't try to remove something that might break your system before you allow it to run.

Good luck

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-05-14
I'm going to mark this thread as solved even though it's not. 

I just booted into the 10.04 install to be greeted by a black screen and that was it. Haven't got time to twiddle around trying to fix that right now so will post a new thread when I have. I did install xubuntu-restricted-extras when I was last in that install so perhaps that has screwed something on a reboot.

As for the original problem: I am running the 2.6.38-** kernel (installed manually) on the 10.04 install because it is the first one that my wireless card seems to work with (and it works great). I'm wondering if that has anything to do with it because, of course, 10.04 normally goes not beyond kernel 2.6.32-** I believe, correct me if I'm wrong.

Therefore, I don't actually want the regular kernel updates/upgrades for the .32 kernel as I'm running .38. Hmmm.

---

