---
title: "4.7GB file too big to move?"
date: 2009-12-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nexus_2006 on 2009-12-19
Its an .avi file that I ripped from a DVD I own, I wanted to watch it on my portable media device.  I can't copy it to the device or other partitions on my drive.  Its 4.7 GB, but the file copy stops after moving 4.0 GB and tells me it can't continue.  Anything to do except delete and rip it smaller?  Would it burn to a DVD?  All my filesystems are ext3, except the player, I don't remember what it is, but I'm thinking fat32 for some reason.  Its an Archos 5.

---

### Post by baizon on 2009-12-19
FAT32 is limited to 4GB so you have to change to NTFS.

> The maximum possible size for a file on a FAT32 volume is 4 GB minus 1 byte (232&#8722;1 bytes). Video applications, large databases, and some other software easily exceed this limit. Larger files require another formatting type such as NTFS.
Source: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_Allocation_Table]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_Allocation_Table")

---

### Post by nexus_2006 on 2009-12-19
What about the other partition on my main disk though?  It is a 19GB ext3 system that is nearly empty, but only 4GB of the file will go there either.

---

### Post by baizon on 2009-12-19
That should work. How do you copy the file? With Nautilus or Terminal?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-12-19
> **nexus_2006 said:**
> What about the other partition on my main disk though?  It is a 19GB ext3 system that is nearly empty, but only 4GB of the file will go there either.

And how much space do you have on your /tmp?

---

### Post by Darael on 2009-12-19
Your best bet is probably to split the file into more than one section - two would be enough. That'd let you place each on a FAT filesystem, and shouldn't pose too much of a problem as regards continuous playback on a portable media device.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2009-12-19
> **baizon said:**
> FAT32 is limited to 4GB so you have to change to NTFS.

Although this will could well brick your Archos, I don't think it supports an NTFS filesystem.

---

### Post by MartyBuntu on 2009-12-19
4.7 GB is a pretty huge DVD rip.

Do you even need that quality on a portable?

---

