---
title: "Squid Proxy Authentication Dialog Box Change Text"
date: 2011-01-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jovenrp on 2011-01-27
Need HELP!!! I would like to ask if how can I change the text in the Squid Proxy Authentication Dialog Box...? I would like to change the text "The proxy localhost:3128 is requesting a username and password. The site says: "Squid Proxy Caching Server". Is there a file or a configuration to change the text? Any help is appreciated. Thanks. :)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-01-27
Take a look at the "realm" directive in /etc/squid/squid.conf.  From the file:

```

#       "realm" realmstring
#       Specifies the realm name which is to be reported to the client for
#       the basic proxy authentication scheme (part of the text the user
#       will see when prompted their username and password).
#       auth_param basic realm Squid proxy-caching web server

```

I don't know if that will be enough, but it's a start.

I think some of the text you report is generated by the client browser when Squid asks for authentication.  You may not be able to change that.

---

### Post by Jovenrp on 2011-01-27
Thanks for the reply... I already know about the realm... I'm having problem about the rest of the text. I can't find the configuration file or maybe because the text can't be change.. :( Thanks anyway... :)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-01-29
> **Jovenrp said:**
> Thanks for the reply... I already know about the realm... I'm having problem about the rest of the text. I can't find the configuration file or maybe because the text can't be change.. :( Thanks anyway... :)

I'm pretty sure the text, 

The proxy localhost:3128 is requesting a username and password. The site says: "Squid Proxy Caching Server"

is generated by the browser.  I don't think there's any way to control that from the server.

---

### Post by Jovenrp on 2011-02-02
awts. too bad. if its ok, can you give me a proof that it is a browser generated text? thanks.

---

