---
title: "10.10 wireless disabled"
date: 2011-11-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by meetdilip on 2011-11-21
It was working fine. Don't know what happened. It says wireless disabled. Cannot connect through WiFi now. Using ethernet. Please help. I use Ubuntu 10.10.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-11-21
Just a quick thought.

Have you checked your hardware drivers to assure your wifi driver is turned on?
system/administration/hardware drivers

It should show if a wifi driver in the window is turned on and being used. If a driver is in the window and not in use, left click on the check box and at the bottom hit the apply button. This will install and/or use the wifi driver.

If I recall one of the wifi cards dell uses is the broadcom and the last driver I remember is the 802.11

If the driver is turned on and in use, you may check to see if you have a hardware switch. Look for an antenna with signals coming off of it under one of your F keys. Generally, your required to hit a Fn or Alt key in combination with the wifi key.

Good Luck & Hope this helps.

---

### Post by meetdilip on 2011-11-21
Thanks. It was working fine and went off by itself. Don't know how, but it is working fine now.

How to change DNS in Ubuntu ?

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2011-11-21
> How to change DNS in Ubuntu ? 	

[This]("http://www.liberiangeek.net/2010/12/change-dns-server-address-ubuntu-10-0410-10-maverick-meerkat/") should help and it's easier than writing it here. I generally don't use other sites to help members, but this is a very good explanation of what I believe your asking for.

Good Luck

---

### Post by meetdilip on 2011-11-21
Great link. Thanks a lot :)

---

