---
title: "My new nvidia geforce not working right, please help!"
date: 2008-08-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2008-08-04
hello all

i have been troubleshooting all day long in the forums and still having problems.

i just bought a geforce 8400 gs and i have re-installed ubuntu AND kubuntu at least 10 times trying to get the new card working....

my old card was an integrated intel which ran compiz, although a little slow, and played all videos perfectly.  this new card runs the effects much faster, but videos in vlc and totem become choppy and i dont know what i am doing wrong, and i do not know how to configure xorg.conf (if that is what i should do) so any help will be more than appreciated.

also the 3D desktop cube worked a bit slow with the integrated card, but runs faster now with the nvidia but it shows the same choppiness as all videos.

i'm guessing i'm doing something terribly wrong in the setup because i know if there was no fix for these problems not many people would use ubuntu.

if it helps i have ubuntu hardy 32 bit, intel pentium4 2.80ghz, 1.5g ram, nvidia geforce 8400 gs.

any advice would be fantastic, thanks.

---

### Post by Lord Xeb on 2008-08-04
> **Open-SuSe-A-Me said:**
> hello all

i have been troubleshooting all day long in the forums and still having problems.

i just bought a geforce 8400 gs and i have re-installed ubuntu AND kubuntu at least 10 times trying to get the new card working....

my old card was an integrated intel which ran compiz, although a little slow, and played all videos perfectly.  this new card runs the effects much faster, but videos in vlc and totem become choppy and i dont know what i am doing wrong, and i do not know how to configure xorg.conf (if that is what i should do) so any help will be more than appreciated.

also the 3D desktop cube worked a bit slow with the integrated card, but runs faster now with the nvidia but it shows the same choppiness as all videos.

i'm guessing i'm doing something terribly wrong in the setup because i know if there was no fix for these problems not many people would use ubuntu.

if it helps i have ubuntu hardy 32 bit, intel pentium4 2.80ghz, 1.5g ram, nvidia geforce 8400 gs.

any advice would be fantastic, thanks.
Have you tried EnvyNG to see if that can get it to work?

---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2008-08-04
yes one time i did use that and when i rebooted i kept getting "ubuntu must boot into low graphics mode" or something like that and nothing i did would fix it, so i just reinstalled.  maybe i did something wrong, i uninstalled the original driver through envy and than installed through envy and it didnt work. (see above)

i would really like to get this working so i dont have to go back to the integrated card.

thanks.

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-08-04
Which restricted driver package did you install (using the synaptic package manager)? I'm using (for my Geforce):
```
nvidia-glx-new
nvidia-kernel-common
nvidia-new-kernel-source
nvidia-settings
```
These are what I have using the "synaptic package manager"

Hope this helps........

---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2008-08-04
i installed the bottom 2 packages you recommended and it still doesnt work. from "gksudo nvidia-settings" here is my xorg

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Thu Jun  5 09:26:53 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1280x1024_60 +0+0"
EndSection


maybe i need to install the "legacy" nvidia drivers? i am still getting weird horizontal choppy lines in my video.

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-08-05
I do have an addition within my xorg file that you don't:
```
Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection
```

**P.S.**
I've noticed also that I have the:
xserver-xorg-video-v4l
xserver-xorg-video-vesa
xserver-xorg-video-vga
installed as well........

---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2008-08-05
ok i reinstalled my drivers with envyng and videos in vlc seem to be working fine now, but the 3D rotating cube in compiz still has some minor choppiness. thats not a huge deal though, at least i have videos going.

im guessing this is a compiz issue although the minimize/maximize animations and everything else in compiz is working great, im just having a problem with the cube. could it be that my graphics card can't handle the cube rotating fast?

maybe there is something i can change in the compiz settings, any ideas?

also (unrelated) i would like to customize my forum profile and add an avatar and stuff but i cant figure out how, any help?

thanks for your responses 

- joe

---

### Post by Lacrimstein on 2008-08-05
This is a driver issue. Basically the proprietary nvidia driver for the 8xxx and up cards has poor implementation of 2D, XRender, and Powermizer which causes desktop lag. There really is nothing you can do except wait until nvidia fixes the driver, which won't happen for a while. There is a huge thread on the issue on nvnews forums:

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=115916](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=115916)

Also, some hacks to improve performance are discussed there. Try them and see if they work for you.

---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2008-08-05
Thanks Lacrimstein

i guess i will live with what i have.

thanks to all who replied, the great support community is one more reason to love ubuntu.

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-08-05
Just click on "user cp" and you will find all the information on changing your profile...

---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2008-08-05
hmmm...it seems that the performance degrades the longer i stay logged in.  once i log out and then back in, everything is normal, but if i dont log out for an hour or so all video playback goes back to choppy. damned buggy drivers! are there fixes for these issues coming soon?

---

