---
title: "CIFS fstab not observing GID request"
date: 2022-01-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ogre01 on 2022-01-20
Hello all,

I have recently upgrade to Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 5.4.0-91-generic x86_64), now my fstab isn't working as I've no longer access to manage files including delete in my mount. As far as I can tell, I am successfully mounting as the user but for some reason I'm in the nogroup group rather than the specified gid in fstab.

Here is the command of my fstab

//<ip>/folder        /mnt/folder        cifs  auto,credentials=/home/moviebox/.smbcredentials,uid=1000,gid=1000,forcegid,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777,nounix,vers=1.0  0  0


In the prior version I did not need to specify the vers but saw the error during boot and added that so the mount would be successful. But now realized that I'm not in the correct group so do not have full permissions on files I previously had. Not sure if that has any role in this.


Here is my user id and group id:

ubuntu:~$ id -u 
1000
ubuntu:~$ id -g
1000



When I browse to my home directory and create a file, it seems to be correct:

ubuntu:~$ touch test.txt
ubuntu:~$ ls -lart | grep test
-rw-rw-r--  1 moviebox moviebox       0 Jan 19 23:45 test.txt



But when I go to my mount, and do the same, I end up in nogroup

-rwxr-xr-x+  1 moviebox nogroup     0 Jan 19 23:44  test.txt



Thank you.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-01-20
Does /mnt/folder already exist?  It must.

Try:
```
 //<ip>/folder /mnt/folder cifs auto,credentials=/home/moviebox/.smbcredentials,uid=1000,gid=1000,forcegid,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777
```
I removed the space and bogus backup and fsck numbers which don't apply to network storage. 0 0 shouldn't be bad.

If that doesn't work, try a manual mount command with some verbosity.
```
sudo mount -vvvv -t cifs //<ip>/folder /mnt/folder  -o credentials=/home/moviebox/.smbcredentials,uid=1000,gid=1000,file_mode=0664,dir_mode=0775
```

The options section cannot have any spaces in either fstab or mount command.
What does the credsfile look like?   Should be 
```
username=thefu
password=myKewl42%pass

```
Also, the credentials file should be root:root 600 and NOT stored in a normal user's HOME for security reasons.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-01-20
If the remote storage devices supports NFS, use that instead. That should go without saying.

---

### Post by Ogre01 on 2022-01-20
Hello TheFu,

Thank you for your reply. Let me give it a try. I have a very old Netgear ReadyNas. I think I got it in 2011. I see options for CIFS and AFS or something. No options for NFS.

Let me try your other suggestions with the line update and manual mount.

---

### Post by Ogre01 on 2022-01-28
Hello TheFu,

I think I have to reboot for fstab to take effect, "sudo mount -a" doesn't seem to affect anything and trying to manually unmount fails with a folder in use type message. I did test the mount command, only thing was I had to add vers=1.0 just because my system is old. But that did mount successfull with the correct user ID and group ID.

Let me test with a reboot this weekend and report back.


Thank you.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-01-28
Since systemd took over fstab file management, things that used to work have slightly changed. If updates to the fstab aren't being picked up, a 
```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```
might help for a re-read.  

A unit file is generated by systemd for each mount.  It can be restarted like any other service.  The service name depends on the mount location.  I have a CIFS mount to  /misc/D 
```
$ sudo systemctl start misc-D.mount
```
is the command to start it.  "stop" and "restart" also work as expected.

If using automount, the name changes to *misc-D.automount*. There is a unit file on the system with the name, so you can find it.  Tab-completion also works with the service name.

---

### Post by Ogre01 on 2022-02-03
Hello TheFu,

I just went ahead and did the reboot just to be sure. On boot up, looks like it worked. I'm not sure if it was the removal of the fsck numbers or the removal of the extra whitespace but looks like everything is showing the expected owner/group now.

Thank you very much for the help on this matter.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-02-03
Whitespace in the wrong place is the error.  It is not allowed.  No whitespace is allowed in any mount options, anywhere. Not in the fstab nor in the options on a **sudo mount** command.

The trailing dump/parallel fsck numbers have defaults so they are not an error.

---

