---
title: "9.10 no sound"
date: 2009-09-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by FrankieBeans on 2009-09-14
alright so i had been using ubuntu for a while with minimal problems. just upgraded last night to the new distro and now i have no sound at all. nothing at splash or login, nothing. i had similar sound problems with the last distro, the sound would stop working if i left the comp on for to long, say 24 hours. any ideas? im fairly new to linux fo i have no clue what to try. thanks

---

### Post by gwpritch on 2009-09-14
Did you check the sound wasn't muted. 
One of these days I'm going to figure out why the default always seems to be muted sound.

---

### Post by FrankieBeans on 2009-09-14
actually one of the first things i checked. their powered on pluged in and turned all the way up, still nothing

---

### Post by gwpritch on 2009-09-14
What sort of hardware do you have?

---

### Post by FrankieBeans on 2009-09-14
I have a dell vostro 200. not really sure how to check the sound card or anything like that. if you need to know just gimme a heads up on how to find out

---

### Post by gwpritch on 2009-09-14
In a terminal type:

```
lspci
```

---

### Post by jocko on 2009-09-14
> **FrankieBeans said:**
> alright so i had been using ubuntu for a while with minimal problems. [COLOR=Red]just upgraded last night to the new distro and now i have no sound at all.[/COLOR]
By "the new distro" you mean karmic, which will be released in the end of october, right?
As it's still in the alpha stage of development, you should expect bugs as this to pop up now and then.
This should not be posted in the general help section, as it's not a general problem with an already released version of ubuntu. Check out the [Karmic development forum]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=359"). There are more posts with the same problem there...

---

### Post by FrankieBeans on 2009-09-14
ok im sorry i didnt know, my upgrade manager just asked if i would like to upgrade to the newest distro of ubunu so i did.

---

### Post by FrankieBeans on 2009-09-14
beans@beans-desktop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31/P35/P31 Express DRAM Controller (rev 02)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31/P35/P31 Express PCI Express Root Port (rev 02)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
00:19.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82562V-2 10/100 Network Connection (rev 02)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 02)
00:1a.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 02)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 92)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801IR (ICH9R) LPC Interface Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801IR/IO/IH (ICH9R/DO/DH) 4 port SATA IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.5 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) 2 port SATA IDE Controller (rev 02)
beans@beans-desktop:~$ 0:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 02)
bash: syntax error near unexpected token `(

---

### Post by metalf8801 on 2009-09-14
Did you check to see if anyone had reporded this bug on launchpad and if not reported it yourself? 

If your having trouble reporting a bug you can ask for help on irc chat room #ubuntu-bugs 
If you haven't used irc before here's how [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat)

Here are some other links that might help you
The Ubuntu section of launchpad [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu)
Documentation on reporting bugs [http://www.ubuntu.com/community/ReportProblem](http://www.ubuntu.com/community/ReportProblem)

I hope this helps 
Dan

---

### Post by FrankieBeans on 2009-09-14
sorry people my error, im running 9.04. will try and change the thread title

---

### Post by carlosgs91 on 2009-09-14
.

---

### Post by gwpritch on 2009-09-14
Seems you have an Intel sound chip. Have a look at this thread.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1264671](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1264671)

---

### Post by FrankieBeans on 2009-09-14
well ive tried to upgrade alsa but cant seen to get it.
 [http://webupd8.blogspot.com/2009/08/how-to-upgrade-to-alsa-1020-on-ubuntu.html](http://webupd8.blogspot.com/2009/08/how-to-upgrade-to-alsa-1020-on-ubuntu.html)
when i get to step 3 and try and unpack the files it says they are not found and has to quit. whats that about? i just watched them dl in terminal

---

### Post by carlosgs91 on 2009-09-18
.

---

### Post by GDR! on 2009-11-02
Solution that worked for me:

After upgrade, my menu.lst wasn't updated and therefore I was running old 2.6.28 kernel. I have created entry for 2.6.31 and sound started working.

```
title       Ubuntu 9.10, kernel 2.6.31-14-generic
uuid        0db5be7a-c0cb-43ab-a60a-ade285258430
kernel      /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=0db5be7a-c0cb-43ab-a60a-ade285258430 ro xforcevesa quiet splash
initrd      /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
quiet


```

---

